Chapter 58 - PLANNING AND DEVELOPMENT[1]
Footnotes:
--- (1) ---
Cross reference— Administration, ch. 2; buildings and building construction, ch. 14.

ARTICLE I. - IN GENERAL

Secs. 58-1—58-30. - Reserved.
ARTICLE II. - BOARD OF ZONING APPEALS[2]

Footnotes:
--- (2) ---
Cross reference— Duties regarding zoning, § 82-165.

Sec. 58-31. - Name of board of zoning appeals.
The official name of the board of zoning appeals shall be the City of Vienna Board of Zoning Appeals.
Sec. 58-32. - Officers.
Annually, at the regular meeting of the board of zoning appeals held in the month of April, the board of zoning appeals shall elect a chairman and a vice-chairman and shall appoint a secretary-treasurer. The officers may succeed themselves.
Sec. 58-33. - Chairman.
The chairman shall preside at all meetings of the board of zoning appeals and at other meetings and public hearings called by the board of zoning appeals. He shall call special meetings of the board of zoning appeals when required, and shall transmit reports, plans and recommendations of the board of zoning appeals to the mayor and council, and in general, shall act as spokesman for the board of zoning appeals.
Sec. 58-34. - Vice-chairman.
The vice-chairman of the board of zoning appeals shall serve as chairman in the absence or the disability of the chairman. In the event of the death or resignation of the chairman, the vice-chairman shall perform the latter's duties until such time as the appeals board shall elect a new chairman.
Sec. 58-35. - Secretary-treasurer.
The secretary-treasurer shall assist the chairman in the preparation of an agenda for board of zoning appeals meetings, shall prepare and send out notices for regular and special meetings, shall prepare and distribute minutes of board meetings, and shall establish and maintain the board's files.
Sec. 58-36. - Additional duties.
The chairman, vice-chairman, and secretary-treasurer of the board of zoning appeals shall perform such other duties and functions as may from time to time be required by the board or by its bylaws.
Sec. 58-37. - Acting chairman.
In the absence of both chairman and vice-chairman, the remaining members of the board of zoning appeals, if consisting of a quorum, shall elect an acting chairman for that meeting.
Sec. 58-38. - Regular meetings.
The regular meetings of the board of zoning appeals shall be held as called by the board from time to time.
Sec. 58-39. - Disqualification of members.
If any member of the board of zoning appeals shall find that his property or personal interests are involved in the matter, he shall disqualify himself from voting in that matter.
Sec. 58-40. - Amendments to bylaws.
Changes may be made to the bylaws of the board of zoning appeals by the affirmative vote of three members of the board after being presented to the board of zoning appeals at two consecutive meetings, one of which shall be a regular meeting.
Secs. 58-41—58-70. - Reserved.
ARTICLE III. - PLANNING COMMISSION[3]

Footnotes:
--- (3) ---
Cross reference— Duties regarding zoning, § 82-164.

Sec. 58-71. - Established.
In order to guide and accomplish a coordinated and harmonious development of the city, which will, in accordance with existing and future needs, best promote the public health, safety, morals, order, convenience, prosperity and the general welfare, as well as efficiency and economy in the process of development, the planning commission is hereby created and established.
(Code 1980, § 6-1-1)
Sec. 58-72. - Membership.
The planning commission shall consist of five members, who shall be residents of the city and appointed by the mayor and council. The terms of members shall be for two years, except that in the appointment of the first planning commission under the terms of this article, two members shall be appointed for a term of one year, and three members shall be appointed for a term of two years. Any vacancy in membership shall be filled for the unexpired term by the mayor and council, who shall also have the authority to remove any member for cause, on written charges, after a public hearing. All members shall serve without compensation but may be reimbursed for actual expenses incurred in connection with their official duties.
(Code 1980, § 6-1-2)
Sec. 58-73. - Organization; rules; staff and finances.
(a)
The planning commission shall elect its chairman from among its members. The term of the chairman shall be one year with eligibility for reelection. The planning commission shall appoint a secretary, who may be an officer or employee of the city. The planning commission shall make its own rules of procedure and determine its time of meeting. All meetings of the planning commission at which official action is taken shall be open to the public, and all records of the planning commission shall be a public record.
(b)
The planning commission may appoint any employees and staff as it may deem necessary for its work. The expenditures of the planning commission shall be within the amounts appropriated for that purpose by the mayor and council.
(Code 1980, § 6-1-3)
Sec. 58-74. - Powers and duties.
(a)
From and after the time the planning commission shall have organized and selected its officers and shall have adopted its rules of procedure, the planning commission shall have all the powers, duties and responsibilities set forth in the General Planning and Zoning Enabling Act of 1957, as amended, together with all requirements of the Georgia Zoning Procedures Act.
(b)
As to special exception uses and the consideration thereof, the following shall be required:
(1)
A written application for a special exception use is submitted indicating the section of this chapter under which the special exception is sought and stating the grounds on which it is requested, together with such fees as shall be set forth in the schedule of fees and charges on file in the office of the city clerk.
(2)
Notice shall be given at least 15 days in advance of public hearing. The owner of the property for which special exception use is sought or his agent shall be notified by mail. Notice of these hearings shall be posted on the property for which special exception use is sought, at the City Hall, and in one other public place at least 15 days prior the public hearing.
(3)
The public hearing shall be held. Any party may appear in person, or by agent or attorney.
(4)
The planning commission shall make a finding that is empowered under the section of chapter 82 described in the application to recommend a special exception use, and that the recommendation as to the special exception use would not adversely affect the public interest.
(5)
Before any special exception use recommendation shall be submitted to Mayor and City Council of the City of Vienna for approval or denial, the zoning commission shall make written findings certifying compliance with the specific rules governing individual special exception use requests and that satisfactory provision and arrangement will be made concerning the following, where applicable:
a.
Ingress and egress to property and proposed structures thereon with particular reference to automotive and pedestrian safety and convenience, traffic flow and control, and access in case of fire or catastrophe;
b.
Off-street parking and loading areas where required, with particular attention to the items in subsection (b)(1) of this section and the economic, noise, glare or odor effects of the special exception use on adjoining properties and properties generally in the district;
c.
Refuse and service areas;
d.
Utilities, with reference to locations, availability and compatibility;
e.
Screening and buffeting with reference to type, dimensions and character;
f.
Signs, if any, and proposed exterior lighting with reference to glare, traffic safety, economic effect, and compatibility and harmony with properties in the district;
g.
Required yards and other open space; and
h.
General compatibility with adjacent properties and other property in the district.
(Code 1980, 6-1-4; Ord. of 9-23-13(1))
Secs. 58-75—58-105. - Reserved.
ARTICLE IV. - AREA PLANNING COMMISSION

Sec. 58-106. - Membership.
The West Central Georgia Area Planning and Development Commission shall consist of two members from each of the counties participating in the area planning commission. Of the two members from each county, one shall be appointed by the governing authority of the municipality wherein the county seat is located and the other member shall be appointed by the governing authority of the county.
(Code 1980, § 6-1-11)
Sec. 58-107. - Term of office; compensation.
The term of office for all members of the area planning commission shall be five years, except that the initial appointment by the mayor and council shall be for a term of one year. Any vacancy in the membership shall be filled for the unexpired term by the governing authority making the appointment that has become vacant. The appointing authority shall have the power to remove for cause, on written charges, after public hearing any member it may appoint. All members shall serve without compensation.
(Code 1980, § 6-1-12)
Sec. 58-108. - Organization, rules, staff and finances.
The area planning commission shall elect a chairman and vice-chairman from among its appointive members. The term of office of the chairman and vice-chairman shall be for one year or until reelected or their successors are elected. The commission shall appoint a secretary, who may be an employee of the commission. The commission shall meet at least once each month at the call of the chairman and at such other times as the chairman or board may determine; shall adopt rules for the transaction of business; and shall keep a record of its resolutions, transactions, findings and determinations, which record shall be a public record. The commission may appoint such employees and staff as it may deem necessary for its work. In the performance of its duties, the commission may cooperate with, contract with, or accept funds from federal, state or local public or semipublic agencies or private individuals or corporations, may spend such funds, and may carry out such cooperative undertakings and contracts. It may make expenditures for the purchase of required equipment and supplies. The expenditures of the commission, exclusive of gifts to the commission and contract receipts, shall be within the amounts appropriated for the purpose by the participating governing authorities.
(Code 1980, § 6-1-13)
Sec. 58-109. - Powers and duties.
It shall be the function and duty of the area planning commission to make such careful and comprehensive surveys and studies of existing conditions and probable future developments and to prepare such plans for physical, social and economic growth as will best promote the public health, safety, morals, convenience, prosperity or the general welfare as well as the efficiency and economy in the development of the entire West Central Georgia area and each political subdivision therein. In general, the commission shall have such powers and duties and responsibilities as set forth in the General Planning Enabling Act of 1957, as amended.
(Code 1980, § 6-1-14)
Secs. 58-110—58-140. - Reserved.
ARTICLE V. - DEVELOPMENT AUTHORITY

Sec. 58-141. - Activation.
There is hereby activated in the city the public body corporate and politic known as the Development Authority of the City of Vienna, which was created upon the adoption and approval of the Development Authorities Law.
(Code 1980, § 6-1-21)
Sec. 58-142. - Composition.
The development authority of the city shall be composed of seven members.
(Code 1980, § 6-1-21)
Sec. 58-143. - Terms.
Each person appointed to the development authority of the city shall serve for six years or until his successor shall be appointed and qualified.
(Code 1980, § 6-1-21)
Sec. 58-144. - Board of directors.
The board of directors of the development authority of the city shall organize itself, carry out its duties and responsibilities, and exercise its powers and prerogatives in accordance with the terms and provisions of the Development Authorities Law as it now exists and as it might hereafter be amended or modified.
(Code 1980, § 6-1-21)
Secs. 58-145—58-170. - Reserved.
ARTICLE VI. - HISTORIC PRESERVATION
DIVISION 1. - GENERALLY

Sec. 58-171. - Purpose.
In support and furtherance of its findings and determination that the historical, cultural and aesthetic heritage of the City of Vienna, Georgia, is among its most valued and important assets and that the preservation of this heritage is essential to the promotion of the health, prosperity and general welfare of the people; in order to stimulate revitalization of the business districts and historic neighborhoods and to protect and enhance local historical and aesthetic attractions to tourists and thereby promote and stimulate business; in order to enhance the opportunities for federal or state tax benefits under relevant provisions of federal or state law; and in order to provide for the designation, protection, preservation and rehabilitation of historic properties and historic districts and to participate in federal or state programs to do the same; the Vienna City Council, Vienna, Georgia, hereby declares it to be the purpose and intent of this article to establish a uniform procedure for use in providing for the protection, enhancement, perpetuation and use of places, districts, sites, buildings, structures, objects, and landscape features having a special historical, cultural or aesthetic interest or value, in accordance with the provisions of the article.
(Ord. of 11-24-03, § I)
Sec. 58-172. - Definitions.
Building means building is a structure created to shelter any form of human activity, such as a house, barn, church, hotel, or similar structure. Building may refer to a historically related complex such as a courthouse and jail or a house and barn.
Certificate of appropriateness means a document evidencing approval by the historic preservation commission of an application to make a material change in the appearance of a designated historic property or of a property located within a designated historic district.
Exterior architectural features means the architectural style, general design and general arrangement of the exterior of a building, structure or object, including but not limited to, the kind or texture of the building material and the type and style of all windows, doors, signs and other appurtenant architectural fixtures, features, details or elements relative to the foregoing.
Exterior environmental features means all those aspects of the landscape or the development of a site, which affect the historical character of the property.
Historic district means a geographical definable area, possessing a significant concentration, linkage, or continuity of sites, buildings, structures or objects united by past events or aesthetically by plan or physical development. A district may also comprise individual elements separated geographically but links by association or history. A historic district shall further mean an area designated by the Vienna City Council as a historic district pursuant to the criteria established in section 58-227 of this article.
Historic property means an individual building, structure, site or object including the adjacent area necessary for the proper appreciation thereof designated by the Vienna City Council as a historic property pursuant to the criteria established in section 58-228 of this article.
Material change in appearance means a change that will affect either the exterior architectural or environmental features of a historic property or any building, structure, site, object or landscape feature within a historic district, such as:
(1)
A reconstruction or alteration of the size, shape or facade of a historic property, including relocation of any doors or windows or removal or alteration of any architectural features, details or elements;
(2)
Demolition or relocation of a historic structure;
(3)
Commencement of excavation for construction purposes;
(4)
A change in the location of advertising visible from the public right-of-way; or
(5)
The erection, alteration, restoration or removal of any buildings or other structures within a historic property or district, including walls, fences, steps and pavements, or other appurtenant features.
Object means an object is a material thing of functional, aesthetic, cultural, historical or scientific value that may be, by nature or design, movable yet related to a specific setting or environment.
Site means a site is the location of a significant event, a prehistoric or historical occupation or activity, or a building or structure, whether standing, ruined, or vanished, where the location itself maintains historical or archaeological value regardless of the value of any existing structure.
Structure means a structure is a work made up of interdependent and interrelated parts in definite pattern of organization. Constructed by man, it is often an engineering project large in scale.
(Ord. of 11-24-03, § II)
Secs. 58-173—58-195. - Reserved.
DIVISION 2. - CREATION OF HISTORIC PRESERVATION COMMISSION

Sec. 58-196. - Creation of the commission.
There is hereby created a commission whose title shall be "Vienna Historic Preservation Commission" (hereafter "commission").
(Ord. of 11-24-03, § III(A))
Sec. 58-197. - Commission position within the City of Vienna.
The preservation commission shall be part of the planning functions of the City of Vienna.
(Ord. of 11-24-03, § III(B))
Sec. 58-198. - Commission members: number, appointment, terms and compensation.
modified
(a)
The commission shall consist of seven members appointed by the mayor and ratified by the city council. All members shall reside in the City of Vienna and shall be persons who have demonstrated special interest, experience or education in history, architecture or the preservation of historic resources.
(b)
To the extent available in the City of Vienna, at least three members shall be appointed from among professionals in the disciplines of architecture, history, architectural history, planning, archaeology or related professions.
(c)
Members shall serve three-year terms. Members may not serve more than two consecutive terms. In order to achieve staggered terms, initial appointments shall be: Two members for one year; two members for two years; and three members for three years. Members shall not receive a salary, although they may be reimbursed for expenses.
(Ord. of 11-24-03, § III(C); Ord. No. 19-05 , 8-26-19)
Sec. 58-199. - Statement of the commission's powers.
The preservation commission shall be authorized to:
(1)
Prepare and maintain an inventory of all property within the City of Vienna having the potential for designation as historic property;
(2)
Recommend to the Vienna City Council specific districts, sites, buildings, structures, or objects to be designated by ordinance as historic properties or historic districts;
(3)
Review applications for certificate of appropriateness, and grant or deny same in accordance with the provisions of this article;
(4)
Recommend to the Vienna City Council that the designation of any district, site, building, structure or object as a historic property or as a historic district be revoked or removed;
(5)
Restore or preserve any historic properties acquired by the City of Vienna;
(6)
Promote the acquisition by the City of Vienna of facade easements and conservation easements as appropriate, in accordance with the provisions of the Georgia Uniform Conservation Easement Act of 1992 (O.C.G.A. §§ 44-10.1 through 44-10.5);
(7)
Make such investigations and studies of matters relating to historic preservation, including consultation with historic preservation experts, the Vienna City Council or the commission itself may, from time to time, deem necessary or appropriate for the purposes of preserving historic resources;
(8)
Seek out local, state, federal or private funds for historic preservation, and make recommendation to the Vienna City Council concerning the most appropriate uses of any funds acquired;
(9)
Submit to the historic preservation division of the department of natural resources a list of historic properties or historic districts designated;
(10)
Review and make comments to the historic preservation division of the department of natural resources concerning the nomination of properties within its jurisdiction to the National Register of Historic Places; and
(11)
Participate in private, state and federal historic preservation programs and with the consent of the Vienna City Council enter into agreements to do the same.
(Ord. of 11-24-03, § III(D))
Sec. 58-200. - Commission's power to adopt rules and standards.
The preservation commission shall adopt rules and standards for the transaction of its business and for consideration of applications for designations and certificate of appropriateness, such as bylaws, removal of membership provision, and design guidelines and criteria. The preservation commission shall have the flexibility to adopt rules and standards without amendment to the ordinance from which this article derives. The commission shall provide for the time and place of regular meeting and a method for the calling of special meetings. The commission shall select such officers as it deems appropriate from among its members. A quorum shall consist of a majority of the members.
(Ord. of 11-24-03, § III(E))
Sec. 58-201. - Conflict of interest.
The commission shall be subject to all conflict of interest laws set forth in Georgia Statutes and in the City of Vienna Charter.
(Ord. of 11-24-03, § III(F))
Sec. 58-202. - Commission's authority to receive funding from various sources.
The commission shall have the authority to accept donations and shall ensure that these funds do not displace appropriated governmental funds.
(Ord. of 11-24-03, § III(G))
Sec. 58-203. - Records of commission meetings.
A public record shall be kept of the commission resolutions, proceedings and actions.
(Ord. of 11-24-03, § III(H))
Secs. 58-204—58-225. - Reserved.
DIVISION 3. - RECOMMENDATION AND DESIGNATION OF HISTORIC DISTRICTS AND PROPERTIES

Sec. 58-226. - Preliminary research by commission.
(a)
Commission's mandate to conduct a survey of local historic resources. The commission shall compile and collect information and conduct surveys of historic resources within the City of Vienna.
(b)
Commission's power to recommend districts and buildings to the Vienna City Council for designation. The commission shall present to the Vienna City Council recommendations for historic districts and properties.
(c)
Commission's documentation of proposed designation. Prior to the commission's recommendation of a historic district or historic property to the Vienna City Council for designation, the commission shall prepare a report for nomination consisting of:
(1)
A physical description;
(2)
A statement of the historical, cultural, architectural and/or aesthetic significance;
(3)
A map showing district boundaries and classification (i.e., contributing, noncontributing) of individual properties therein, or showing boundaries of individual historic properties;
(4)
A statement justifying district or individual property boundaries; and
(5)
Representative photographs.
(Ord. of 11-24-03, § IV(A))
Sec. 58-227. - Designation of a historic district.
(a)
Criteria for selection of historic districts. A historic district is a geographically definable area, which contains buildings, structures, sites, objects and landscape features or a combination thereof, which:
(1)
Have special character or special historic/aesthetic value or interest;
(2)
Represent one or more periods, styles or types of architecture typical of one or more eras in the history of the municipality, county, region or state; and;
(3)
Cause such area, by reason of such factors, to constitute a visibly perceptible section of the municipality or county.
(b)
Boundaries of a historic district. Boundaries of a historic district shall be included in the separate ordinances designating such districts and shall be shown on the Official Zoning Map of the City of Vienna, Georgia.
(c)
Evaluation of properties within historic districts. Individual properties within historic districts shall be classified as:
(1)
Contributing (contributes to the district);
(2)
Noncontributing (does not contribute to the district, as provided for in subsection (a) of this section).
(Ord. of 11-24-03, § IV(B))
Cross reference— Historic district, § 58-331 et seq.
Sec. 58-228. - Designation of a historic property.
Criteria for selection of historic properties. A historic property is a building, structure, site, or object; including the adjacent area necessary for the proper appreciation or use thereof, deemed worthy of preservation by reason of value to the nation, City of Vienna, or the State of Georgia, for one of the following reasons:
(1)
It is an outstanding example of a structure representative of its era;
(2)
It is one of the few remaining examples of a past architectural style;
(3)
It is a place or structure associated with an event or persons of historic or cultural significance to the City of Vienna, the region, or the State of Georgia; or
(4)
It is the site of natural or aesthetic interest that is continuing to contribute to the cultural or historical development and heritage of the municipality, county, region or state.
(Ord. of 11-24-03, § IV(C))
Sec. 58-229. - Requirement for adopting an ordinance for the designation of historic districts and historic properties.
(a)
Application for designation of historic districts or property. Designations may be proposed by the Vienna City Council, the commission, or:
(1)
For historic districts: A historical society, neighborhood association or group of property owners may apply to the commission for designation.
(2)
For historic properties: A historical society, neighborhood association or property owner may apply to the commission for designation.
(b)
Required components of a designation ordinance. Any ordinance designating any property or district as historic shall:
(1)
List each property in a proposed historic district or describe the proposed individual historic property;
(2)
Set forth the name(s) of the owner(s) of the designated property or properties;
(3)
Require that a certificate of appropriateness be obtained from the commission prior to any material change in appearance of the designated property; and
(4)
Require that the property or district be shown on the Official Zoning Map of the City of Vienna, Georgia and kept as a public record to provide notice of such designation.
(c)
Require public hearings. The commission and the Vienna City Council shall hold a public hearing on any proposed ordinance for the designation of any historic district or property. Notice of the hearing shall be published in at least three consecutive issues in the principal newspaper of local circulation, and written notice of the hearing shall be mailed by the commission to all owners and occupants of such properties. All such notices shall be published or mailed not less than ten, nor more than 20 days prior to the date set for the public hearing. A notice sent via the United States Mail to the last known owner of the property shown on the City of Vienna tax digest and a notice sent via attention of the occupant shall constitute legal notification to the owner and occupant under this article.
(d)
Notification of historic preservation division. No less than 30 days prior to making a recommendation on any ordinance designating a property or district as historic the commission must submit the report, required in subsection 58-226(c), to the historic preservation division of the department of natural resources.
(e)
Recommendations on proposed designations. A recommendation to affirm, modify or withdraw the proposed ordinance of designation shall be made by the commission within 15 days following the public hearing and shall be in the form of a resolution to the Vienna City Council.
(f)
Vienna City Council acting on the commission's recommendation. Following receipt of the commission recommendation, the Vienna City Council may adopt the ordinance as proposed, may adopt the ordinance with any amendments it deems necessary, or reject the ordinance.
(g)
Notification of adoption of ordinance for designation. Within 30 days following the adoption of the ordinance for designation by the Vienna City Council, the owners and occupants of each designated historic property, and the owners and occupants of each structure, site or work of art located within a designated historic district, shall be given written notification of such designation by the Vienna City Council, which notice shall apprise said owners and occupants of the necessity of obtaining a certificate of appropriateness prior to undertaking any material change in appearance of the historic property designated or within the historic district designated. A notice sent via the United States Mail to the last known owner of the property shown on the City of Vienna tax digest and a notice sent via United States Mail to the address of the property to the attention of the occupant shall constitute legal notification to the owner and occupant under this ordinance.
(h)
Notification of other agencies regarding designation. The commission shall notify all necessary agencies within the City of Vienna of the ordinance for designation.
(i)
Moratorium on applications for alteration or demolition while ordinance for designation is pending. If an ordinance for designation is being considered, the commission shall have the power to freeze the status of the involved property.
(Ord. of 11-24-03, § IV(D))
Secs. 58-230—58-255. - Reserved.
DIVISION 4. - APPLICATION TO PRESERVATION COMMISSION FOR CERTIFICATE OF APPROPRIATENESS

Sec. 58-256. - Approval of material change in appearance in historic districts or involving historic properties.
After the designation by ordinance of a historic property or of a historic district, no material change in the appearance of such historic property, or of a contributing or non-contributing building, structure, site or object within such historic district, shall be made or be permitted to be made by the owner or occupant thereof, unless or until the application for a certificate of appropriateness has been submitted to and approved by the commission. A building permit shall not be issued without a certificate of appropriateness.
(Ord. of 11-24-03, § V(A))
Sec. 58-257. - Submission of plans to commission.
An application for a certificate of appropriateness shall be accompanied by drawings, photographs, plans and documentation required by the commission.
(Ord. of 11-24-03, § V(B))
Sec. 58-258. - Interior alterations.
In its review of applications for certificate of appropriateness, the commission shall not consider interior arrangement or use having no effect on exterior architectural features.
(Ord. of 11-24-03, § V(C))
Sec. 58-259. - Technical advice.
The commission shall have the power to seek technical advice from outside its members on any application.
(Ord. of 11-24-03, § V(D))
Sec. 58-260. - Public hearings on applications for certificate of appropriateness, notices, and right to be heard.
(a)
The commission shall hold a public hearing at which each proposed certificate of appropriateness is discussed. Notice of the hearing shall be published in the principal newspaper of local circulation in the city and written notice of the hearing shall be mailed by the commission to all owners and occupants of the subject property. The written and published notice shall be provided in the same manner and time frame as notices are provided before a public hearing for rezoning.
(b)
The commission shall give the property owner and/or applicant an opportunity to be heard at the certificate of appropriateness hearing.
(Ord. of 11-24-03, § V(E))
Sec. 58-261. - Acceptable commission reaction to applications for certificate of appropriateness.
Commission action. The commission may approve the certificate of appropriateness as proposed, approve the certificate of appropriateness with any changes it deems necessary, or reject it.
(1)
The commission shall approve the application and issue a certificate of appropriateness if it finds that the proposed material change(s) in the appearance would not have a substantial adverse effect on the aesthetic, historic, or architectural significance and value of the historic property or the historic district. In making this determination, the commission shall consider, in addition to any other pertinent factors, the following criteria for each of the following acts:
a.
Reconstruction, alteration, new construction or renovation. The commission shall issue certificate of appropriateness for the above-proposed actions if those actions conform in design, scale, building material, setback and site features and to the Secretary of Interior's Standards for Rehabilitation and Guidelines for Rehabilitating Historic Buildings.
b.
Relocation. A decision by the commission approving or denying a certificate of appropriateness for the relocation of a building, structure or object shall be guided by:
1.
The historic character and aesthetic interest the building, structure or object contributes to its present setting.
2.
Whether there are definite plans for the area to be vacated and what the effect of those plans on the character of the surrounding area will be.
3.
Whether the building structure or object can be moved without significant damage to its physical integrity.
4.
Whether the proposed relocation area is compatible with the historical and architectural character of the building, structure, site or object.
c.
Demolition. A decision by the commission approving or denying a certificate of appropriateness for the demolition of buildings, structures, sites, trees judged to be 50 years old or older, or objects shall be guided by:
1.
The historic, scenic or architectural significance of the building, structure site, tree or object.
2.
The importance of the building, structure, site, tree or object to the ambiance of a district.
3.
The difficulty or the impossibility of reproducing such a building, structure, site, tree or object because of its design, texture, material, detail or unique location.
4.
Whether the building, structure, site, tree or object is one of the last remaining examples of its kind in the neighborhood or the city.
5.
Whether there are definite plans for use of the property if the proposed demolition is carried out, and what the effect of those plans on the character of the surrounding area would be.
6.
Whether reasonable measures can be taken to save the building, structure, site, tree or object from collapse.
7.
Whether the building, structure, site, tree or object is capable of earning reasonable economic return on its value.
(Ord. of 11-24-03, § V(F))
Sec. 58-262. - Undue hardship.
When, by reason of unusual circumstances, the strict application of any provision of this article would result in the exceptional practical difficulty or undue economic hardship upon any owner of a specific property, the commission, in passing upon applications, shall have the power to vary or modify strict adherence to said provision, or to interpret the meaning of said provisions, so as to relieve such difficulty or hardship; provided such variances, modifications or interpretations shall remain in harmony with the general purpose and intent of said provision, so that the architectural or historical integrity or character of the property shall be conserved and substantial justice done. In granting variances, the commission may impose such reasonable and additional stipulations and conditions as will, in its judgment, best fulfill the purpose of this article. An undue hardship shall not be a situation of the person's own making.
(Ord. of 11-24-03, § V(G))
Sec. 58-263. - Deadline for approval or rejection of application for certificate of appropriateness.
(a)
The commission shall approve or reject an application for a certificate of appropriateness within 45 days after the filing thereof by the owner or occupant of a historic property, or of a building structure, site or object located within a historic district. Evidence of approval shall be by a certificate of appropriateness issued by the commission. Notice of the issuance of denial of a certificate of appropriateness shall be sent by United States Mail to the applicant and all other persons who have requested such notice in writing filed with the commission.
(b)
Failure of the commission to act within said 45 days shall constitute approval, and no other evidence of approval shall be needed.
(Ord. of 11-24-03, § V(H))
Sec. 58-264. - Necessary action to be taken by commission upon rejection of application for certificate of appropriateness.
(a)
In the event the commission rejects an application it shall state its reasons for doing so, and shall transmit a record of such actions and reasons, in writing, to the applicant. The commission may suggest alternative courses of action it thinks proper if it disapproves of the application submitted. The applicant, if he or she so desires, may make modifications to the plans and may resubmit the application at any time after doing so.
(b)
In cases where the application covers a material change in the appearance of a structure which would require the issuance of a building permit, the rejection of the application for a certificate of appropriateness by the commission shall be binding upon the building inspector or other administrative officer charged with issuing building permits and, in such a case, no building permit shall be issued.
(Ord. of 11-24-03, § V(I))
Sec. 58-265. - Requirement of conformance with certificate of appropriateness.
(a)
All work performed pursuant to an issued certificate of appropriateness shall conform to the requirements of such certificate. In the event work is performed not in accordance with such certificate, the commission shall issue a cease and desist order and all work shall cease.
(b)
The Vienna City Council or the commission shall be authorized to institute any appropriate action or proceeding in a court of competent jurisdiction to prevent any material change in appearance of a designated historic property or historic district, except those changes made in compliance with the provisions of this article or to prevent any illegal act or conduct with respect to such historic property or historic district.
(Ord. of 11-24-03, § V(J))
Sec. 58-266. - Certificate of appropriateness void if construction not commenced.
A certificate of appropriateness shall become void unless construction is commenced within six months of date of issuance. A certificate of appropriateness shall be issued for a period of 18 months and are renewable.
(Ord. of 11-24-03, § V(K))
Sec. 58-267. - Recording applications for certificate of appropriateness.
The commission shall keep a public record of all applications for certificate of appropriateness, and of all the commission's proceedings in connection with said application.
(Ord. of 11-24-03, § V(L))
Sec. 58-268. - Acquisition of property.
The commission may, where such action is authorized by the Vienna City Council and is reasonably necessary or appropriate for the preservation of a unique historic property, enter into negotiations with the owner for the acquisition by gift, purchase, exchange, or otherwise, to the property or any interest therein.
(Ord. of 11-24-03, § V(M))
Sec. 58-269. - Appeals.
Any person adversely affected by any determination made by the commission relative to the issuance or denial of certificate of appropriateness may appeal such determination to the Vienna City Council. Any such appeal must be filed with the Vienna City Council within 15 days after the issuance of the determination pursuant to subsection 58-263(a) of this article or, in the case of a failure of the commission to act, within 15 days of the expiration of the 45-day period allowed for the commission action, subsection 58-263(b) of this article. The Vienna City Council may approve, modify, or reject the determination made by the commission, if the governing body finds that the commission abused its discretion in reaching its decision. Appeals from decision of the Vienna City Council may be taken to the Superior Court of Dooly County in the manner provided by law for appeals from conviction for the City of Vienna ordinance violations.
(Ord. of 11-24-03, § V(N))
Secs. 58-270—58-290. - Reserved.
DIVISION 5. - MAINTENANCE OF HISTORIC PROPERTIES AND BUILDING AND ZONING CODE PROVISIONS

Sec. 58-291. - Ordinary maintenance or repair.
Ordinary maintenance or repair of any exterior architectural or environmental feature in or on a historic property to correct deterioration, decay, or to sustain the existing form and that does not involve a material change in design, material or outer appearance thereof, does not require a certificate of appropriateness.
(Ord. of 11-24-03, § VI(A))
Sec. 58-292. - Failure to provide ordinary maintenance or repair.
Property owners of historic properties or properties within historic districts shall not allow their buildings to deteriorate by failing to provide ordinary maintenance or repair. The commission shall be charged with the following responsibilities regarding deterioration or neglect:
(1)
The commission shall monitor the condition of historic properties and existing buildings in historic districts to determine if they are being allowed to deteriorate by neglect. Such conditions as broken windows, doors and openings that allow the elements and vermin to enter, the deterioration of a building's structural system shall constitute failure to provide ordinary maintenance or repair.
(2)
In the event the commission determines a failure to provide ordinary maintenance or repair, the commission will notify the owner of the property and set forth the steps, which need to be taken to remedy the situation. The owner of such property will have 30 days in which to do this.
(3)
In the event that the condition is not remedied in 30 days, the owner shall be punished as provided in section 58-316 of this article and, at the direction of the Vienna City Council, the commission may perform such maintenance or repair as is necessary to prevent deterioration by neglect. The owner of the property shall be liable for the cost of such maintenance and repair performed by the commission.
(Ord. of 11-24-03, § VI(B))
Sec. 58-293. - Affirmation of existing building and zoning codes.
Nothing in this article shall be construed as to exempt property owners from complying with the existing city or county building and zoning codes, nor to prevent any property owner from making any use of this property not prohibited by other statutes, ordinances or regulations.
(Ord. of 11-24-03, § VI(C))
Secs. 58-294—58-315. - Reserved.
DIVISION 6. - PENALTY PROVISIONS; SEVERABILITY

Sec. 58-316. - Penalty provisions.
Violations of any provision of this article shall be punished in the same manner as provided for punishment of violations of validly enacted ordinances of the City of Vienna, Georgia.
(Ord. of 11-24-03, § VII)
Sec. 58-317. - Severability.
In the event that any section, subsection, sentence, clause or phrase of this article shall be declared or adjudged invalid or unconstitutional, such adjudication shall in no manner affect the other sections, sentences, clauses, or phrases of this article, which shall remain in full force and effect, as if the section, subsection, sentence, clause or phrase so declared or adjudged invalid or unconstitutional were not originally a part thereof.
(Ord. of 11-24-03, § VIII)
Secs. 58-318—58-330. - Reserved.
DIVISION 7. - HISTORIC DISTRICT[4]

Footnotes:
--- (4) ---
Cross reference— Designation of a historic district, § 58-227.

Sec. 58-331. - Purpose.
In support and furtherance of its findings and determination that the historical, cultural and aesthetic heritage of the city is among its most valued and important assets and that the preservation of this heritage is essential to the promotion of the health, prosperity and general welfare of the people; and in order to stimulate revitalization of the business districts and historic neighborhoods and to protect and enhance local historical and aesthetic attractions to tourists and thereby promote and stimulate a business; and in accordance with the ordinance to establish a historic preservation commission in the city; to provide for the designation of historic properties of historic districts; to provide for issuance of certificates of appropriateness; to provide for an appeals procedure; to repeal conflicting ordinances; and for other purposes; the city council hereby declares it to be the purpose and intent of this division to designate a historic district in a geographically definable area containing buildings, structures, sites, objects, landscape features and works of art, or a combination thereof, which have special historic and aesthetic value or interest in representing one or more periods, styles or types of architecture typical of one or more eras in the history of the city, the county, or the state.
(Ord. of 5-23-05, § 1)
Sec. 58-332. - Designation of historic district and boundary description.
There is hereby created and designated in and for the city the Vienna Historic District with boundaries as follows:
Vienna Historic District:
Commencing at the corner of Third Street and West Pine Street, continuing south to the end of Second Street. From the corner of Second Street and Union Street, the district continues west to the Seaboard Coast Line Railroad, then continues south along the railroad to Cotton Street. From Cotton Street at the Railroad, the district continues east to the end of Cotton at Fifth Street. It should be noted that the district includes the strip of south Third Street that extends from Cotton to where the Vienna Downtown Commercial District ends. The district from the corner of Cotton and Fifth continues north to Union, then east on Union to GA Southern & Florida Railroad, continuing north to Pine Street. The district boundary then continues west back to the corner of Pine and Third Streets.
South 5th Street Historic District Expansion Area:
The South 5th Street Historic District Expansion area encompasses an area commencing at the intersection of East Cotton Street and South 5th Street; thence proceed south along said South 5th Street to the south property line of the improved real property identified as 312 South 5th Street. All properties abutting the west boundary of said South 5th Street which are designated and known according to the present (2015) numbering of improved property in said City as (A) 204 South 5th Street (V4-2-17); (B) 300 South 5th Street (V4-2-16); (C) 304 South 5th Street (V4-2-15); (D) 308 South 5th Street (V4-2-14); and (E) 312 South 5th Street (V4-2-13) and properties abutting the east boundary of said South 5th Street which are designated and known according to the present (2015) numbering of improved property in said City known as: (a) 107 South 5th Street (V9-1-12 and V9-1-13); (b) 205 South 5th Street (V9-1-7); and (c) 301 South 5th Street (V9-2-1).
(Ord. of 5-23-05, § 2; Res. of 4-27-15, Exh. A)
Sec. 58-333. - List of property in the Vienna Historic Business District and ownership thereof.
A list of properties located within the historic district as created in section 58-331 and the owner thereof set forth beside the name of each property is not set out herein, but can be found on file with the city.
(Ord. of 5-23-05, § 3)
Sec. 58-334. - Downtown Vienna Historic District boundaries on the official zoning map.
Upon designation the historic district shall be shown on the official zoning map of the city and kept as a public record to provide notice of such designation.
(Ord. of 5-23-05, § 4)
Sec. 58-335. - Certificate of appropriateness.
Upon the effective date of the ordinance from which this division is derived, no material change in the appearance of any structure, site, object of work or art within the designated historic district shall be made or be permitted to be made by the owner or occupant thereof, unless or until the application for a certificate of appropriateness has been submitted to and approved by the city's historic preservation commission.
(Ord. of 5-23-05, § 5)
