CHAPTER 3. - DOWNTOWN ATHENS DEVELOPMENT AUTHORITY
Georgia Laws 1975, p. 1698—Downtown Athens
Development Authority
Sec. 1. [General Assembly authorized to create authority.]
Georgia Laws 1977, p. 3533—Downtown Athens Development Authority Created
Sec. 1. [Creation; members; appointment; terms.]
Sec. 2. [Downtown Athens area defined.]
Sec. 3. [General corporate powers.]
Sec. 4. [Purpose.]
Sec. 5. [Special tax district.]
Sec. 6. [Additional powers.]
Sec. 7. [No taxes to be levied on certain property.]
Sec. 8. [Eminent domain power.]
Sec. 9. [Approval of mayor and council required to exercise taxing power, etc.]
Sec. 10. [When effective.]
Sec. 11. [Repealer.]
Georgia Laws 1987, p. 3825—Downtown Athens Development Authority—Local Constitutional Amendment Continued
Sec. 1. [Continuance authorized.]
Sec. 2. [Passage pursuant to Article XI, Section I.]
Sec. 3. [Repealer.]
GEORGIA LAWS 1975, P. 1698—DOWNTOWN ATHENS DEVELOPMENT AUTHORITY

Sec. 1. - [General Assembly authorized to create authority.]
Article VII, section VII, paragraph I of the constitution is amended by adding at the end thereof the following:
"The General Assembly shall be authorized to create in and for the City of Athens, the Downtown Athens Development Authority for the purpose of the redevelopment of the downtown Athens area. Said Authority shall have the power to employ engineers and planners, to buy, sell and lease real estate, and other property, to contract for the construction, remodeling and altering of buildings, and to contract with the City of Athens for the construction, reconstruction, altering, changing and closing of streets and alleys. The General Assembly shall be authorized to empower the Authority to create special tax districts within the City of Athens, and to submit to the mayor and council of the City of Athens a proposed millage rate not to exceed one (1) mill for taxes on real property within said districts based on values of real property fixed by the tax digest of the City of Athens and upon approval of such rate by the mayor and two-thirds vote of the council of the City of Athens, to have such taxes levied and collected along with ad valorem taxes of the City of Athens, and to use the income therefrom to finance the projects undertaken by such Authority. The Authority shall have the power to issue bonds and/or revenue certificates, and to pledge revenues and taxes collected within said districts as herein provided for the retirement of said indebtedness. No taxes shall be levied by said Authority for any purpose against owner occupied property used exclusively for residential purposes or property used exclusively for school or church purposes. The Authority shall have the right and power of eminent domain for the purpose of acquiring property in carrying out its aims and objectives, subject to the approval of the mayor and two-thirds vote of the council of the City of Athens.
"The General Assembly shall provide for all matters relating to the composition of the members of the Authority, their terms of office and related matters, and the geographical limits within the City of Athens which shall be subject to the provisions of this amendment."
(Ga. L. 1975, p. 1698, § 1; Ga. L. 1976, p. 1912, § 1)
Editor's note— The constitutional reference in the above section refers to the constitution of 1945. In the constitution of 1976, this section became Art. IX, § VII, para. I. In the constitution of 1983, this section became Art. VII, § VII, para. I.
GEORGIA LAWS 1977, P. 3533—DOWNTOWN ATHENS DEVELOPMENT AUTHORITY CREATED

Sec. 1. - Creation; members; appointment; terms.
Pursuant to an amendment to the constitution authorizing the creation of a public corporation to be known as the Downtown Athens Development Authority, having been ratified by the electors at the general election in November, 1976, there is hereby created in and for the City of Athens, Clarke County, Georgia, a public corporation to be known as the Downtown Athens Development Authority, to be composed of seven (7) members, two (2) of whom shall be owners of an interest of at least a life estate or greater interest in real estate located in the downtown Athens area as hereinafter [in this chapter] defined, and who are active members of the Athens Downtown Council so long as such council exists, and two (2) of whom shall be merchants operating businesses in the downtown Athens area as hereinafter defined, and who are active members of the Athens Downtown Council, so long as such council exists. Said four (4) members shall be appointed by the mayor and council of the City of Athens. One (1) member shall be the mayor of the City of Athens by virtue of his office, one (1) member shall be the chairman of the board of commissioners of Clarke County, Georgia, by virtue of his office, and one (1) member shall be the president of [the] Athens Area Chamber of Commerce, or its successor, by virtue of his office. The mayor of the City of Athens, the chairman of the board of commissioners of Clarke County, and the president of [the] Athens Area Chamber of Commerce shall serve for the term of their offices. One (1) of the downtown Athens area property owners and one (1) of the merchants shall be appointed for a period of one (1) year and one (1) of each shall be appointed for a period of two (2) years, and thereafter the terms of office for all of said downtown Athens area property owners and merchants shall be two (2) years. All appointed members shall hold office until their successors are appointed and qualified.
(Ga. L. 1977, p. 3533, § 1)
Sec. 2. - Downtown Athens area defined.
The downtown Athens area shall consist of that area in the City of Athens, Clarke County, Georgia, described as follows: Beginning at the intersection of Dougherty Street and Pulaski Street; running thence east on Dougherty Street to College Avenue; running thence north on College Avenue to Hoyt Street; running thence east on Hoyt Street to The Central of Georgia Railroad; running thence south on The Central of Georgia Railroad to Strong Street; running thence east on Strong Street to Foundry Street; running thence south on Foundry Street to Oconee Street; running thence southeast on Oconee Street to The Central of Georgia Railroad; running thence southwest on the Central of Georgia Railroad 150 feet; running thence northwest on a line of 150 feet southwest of and parallel to the southwesterly right-of-way line of Oconee Street to the intersection of South Thomas Street and South Street; running thence west on South Street to South Jackson Street; running thence north on South Jackson Street to East Broad Street; running thence west on East Broad Street to Lumpkin Street; running thence south on Lumpkin Street to Wray Street; running thence west on Wray Street to South Hull Street; running thence north on South Hull Street to a point 200 feet south of the southerly right-of-way line of West Broad Street; running thence west, on a line 200 feet south of and parallel to the southerly right-of-way line of West Broad Street, to the westerly property line of Dr. B.T. Beasley and the City of Athens, said line being located 181 feet east of the easterly right-of-way line of Florida Avenue, measured perpendicular from Florida Avenue; running thence north on said property line to West Broad Street; running thence west on West Broad Street to Newton Street; thence south to Newton Street to the southerly line of the Ramada Inn property; thence westerly along said property line and continuing westerly in the same direction to the easterly side of Finley Street; thence northerly along Finley Street to Reese Street; thence easterly along Reese Street to Pulaski Street; thence northerly along Pulaski Street to the intersection of Pulaski and Dougherty Streets, the beginning point.
(Ga. L. 1977, p. 3533, § 2)
Sec. 3. - General corporate powers.
The Downtown Athens Development Authority shall be a body corporate and politic, having the power to sue and be sued in its own name, to contract, to acquire, own, hold, lease, sell and convey real and personal property, tangible and intangible, to borrow money, pledge and convey property as security therefor and to do all things necessary to the accomplishment of its purposes; and to accept gifts or grants.
(Ga. L. 1977, p. 3533, § 3)
Sec. 4. - Purpose.
The purpose of said Authority shall be the redevelopment of the downtown Athens area, and said Authority shall have the power to employ engineers and planners, and other agents and professional services as it may deem necessary, to contract for the construction, remodeling and altering of buildings, and to contract with the mayor and council of the City of Athens and others for the construction, reconstruction, altering, changing and closing of streets, sidewalks, passageways and alleys.
(Ga. L. 1977, p. 3533, § 4)
Sec. 5. - Special tax district.
The downtown Athens area, as now or hereafter defined, shall constitute a special tax district. The Downtown Athens Development Authority shall have the power to submit for approval to the mayor and council of the City of Athens a proposed millage rate to be collected based on values of real property in the downtown Athens area, (as herein or hereafter defined) fixed from time to time by the tax digest of the City of Athens, such millage rate not to exceed one (1) mill, for the operation of said Authority. Upon approval by the mayor and a two-thirds vote of the council of the City of Athens such taxes shall be levied and collected by the mayor and council for the City of Athens in the same manner as other City of Athens ad valorem taxes are levied and collected but shall be kept in a special fund or funds restricted to the uses for which such taxes were levied and collected.
(Ga. L. 1977, p. 3533, § 5)
Sec. 6. - Additional powers.
The Authority shall have the power:
(1)
To buy, acquire, construct, develop, rehabilitate, improve, own, operate, maintain, sell, lease and mortgage land, buildings, parking facilities, malls, arcades, roadways, street lights, sidewalks and property of all kinds and character, including, but not limited to machinery, apparatus, equipment and utilities useful or desirable in connection therewith, within the downtown Athens area which promote the economic improvement and development or redevelopment of the downtown Athens area;
(2)
To receive and administer gifts, grants and donations and to administer trusts and to enter into trust indentures;
(3)
To grant, loan, sell and lease any of its funds and property to private persons and corporations agreeing to operate, expand, acquire, construct, develop, rehabilitate, improve, own and maintain any commercial or business enterprise or establishment or any dwelling accommodations, cooperative apartments and condominiums within the downtown Athens area, which in the judgment of the governing body of the Authority will be of benefit to the economic improvement and development or redevelopment of said area;
(4)
To borrow money and issue notes, obligations and revenue bonds therefor and to sell, convey, mortgage, pledge and assign proceeds of tax levied within the downtown Athens area, and any and all of its funds, revenues, property and income as security for the payment thereof and interest thereon and to secure the repayment of any such money so borrowed by the terms of the resolution authorizing such financing and to enter into a trust indenture relative thereto;
(5)
To appoint and employ officers, agents and employees and to provide for their compensation in order to effectuate the purposes of this Act [this chapter];
(6)
To encourage and promote the economic improvement, development, redevelopment and rehabilitation of the downtown Athens area and to make long-range plans therefor in cooperation with the planning developments [sic] of the mayor and council of the City and Clarke County;
(7)
To accumulate its funds from such tax levy herein authorized from year to year and to invest and reinvest such funds;
(8)
To designate any of its officers to sign and act for the Authority pertaining to the rights, powers and privileges herein conferred;
(9)
To do any and all acts and things necessary, convenient or desirable to accomplish the purpose of this Act [this chapter] and the rights, powers and privileges herein conferred;
(10)
To contract with the mayor and council of the City of Athens for the collection of any taxes levied pursuant to this Act [this chapter];
(11)
To adopt such bylaws governing the conduct of the affairs of the Authority and to elect such officers as the Authority shall deem necessary;
(12)
To exercise all of the powers vested in the Authority by Article IX, section VII, paragraph I of the constitution of the State of Georgia of 1976 and all other necessary and ancillary powers necessary to carry out the provisions of said paragraphs as it pertains to the Downtown Athens Development Authority;
(13)
The revenue bonds or other obligations herein authorized to be issued shall not be deemed to constitute a debt of the mayor and council of the City of Athens within the meaning of Article IX, section VII, paragraph I of the constitution, nor a pledge of the faith and credit of said city nor shall the city be subject to any pecuniary liability thereon. The revenue bonds shall not be payable from, nor a charge upon, funds of the city. If given as security for bonds or other obligations, any bondholder or lender shall have the right to compel the Authority and the city to levy the special tax herein provided for within the limit herein prescribed to pay the bonds or other obligations and interest thereon.
(14)
The Authority is hereby authorized to issue revenue bonds or other obligations from time to time, to carry out the purposes of this Act [this chapter]. Revenue bonds or other obligations so issued shall be paid solely from the revenues pledged to the payment thereof, which revenues may include any funds derived from the special tax levy provided hereunder. Such revenue bonds or obligations shall be authorized by resolution of the governing body of the Authority, which may be adopted at a regular or special meeting by a majority vote of the members of said governing body. The governing body of the Authority in determining the cost of any undertaking for which revenue bonds or obligations are to be issued may include all costs relative to the issuance thereof, and without intending to limit such costs, may include, architectural, engineering, inspection, fiscal agents' and legal expenses estimated to accrue from the date of any such bonds through the period of construction and for six (6) months after such construction and such bonds or other obligations shall bear such date or dates, mature at such time or times, not exceeding forty (40) years from their respective dates, bear interest at such rate or rates and may be in such denominations and may carry such registration privileges and be subject to redemption and may contain such terms, covenants, assignments and conditions as the resolution authorizing the issuance of such bonds may provide. The Authority is created for nonprofit and public purposes, and it is hereby found, determined and declared that the creation of the Authority and the carrying out of its corporate purposes is in all respects for the benefit of the people of the State of Georgia, that the Authority is an institution of purely public charity and will be performing an essential governmental function in the exercise of the power conferred upon it by this Act [this chapter], and for such reasons, the state covenants with the holders from time to time of the bonds and other obligations issued hereunder that the Authority shall be required to pay no taxes or assessments imposed by the state or any of its counties, municipal corporations, political subdivisions or taxing districts upon any property acquired by the Authority or under its jurisdiction, control, possession or supervision or leased by it to others, or upon its activities in the operation or maintenance of any such property or on any income derived by the Authority in the form of fees, recording fees, rentals, charges, purchase price, installments or otherwise, and that the bonds and other obligations of the Authority, their transfer and the income therefrom shall at all times be exempt from taxation within the State of Georgia. The terms, conditions, covenants and provisions contained in any such resolution authorizing the issuance of such bonds and other obligations shall bind said governing body then in office and its successors thereof, including any covenant to levy taxes within the limits herein prescribed for the purpose of providing such funds as may be necessary to pay the principal of and interest on any such issue or issues of said bonds and other obligations and to create and maintain a reserve for that purpose. Bonds issued by said Authority shall be validated in the superior court of Clarke County in the same manner as revenue bonds of municipalities are validated as provided under the Revenue Bond Law (Ga. L. 1937, p. 761) as amended. There shall be no limitation upon the amount of revenue bonds or other obligations which the Authority may issue.
(Ga. L. 1977, p. 3533, § 6; Ga. L. 1980, p. 3053, § 1)
Editor's note— In the constitution of 1983, the section referred to in paragraphs (12) and (13) above became Art. IX, § V, paras. I, IV and V.
State Law reference— Revenue Bond Law, OCGA § 36-82-60 et seq.
Sec. 7. - No taxes to be levied on certain property.
No taxes shall be levied for said Authority for any purpose against property occupied by the owner exclusively as a residence or property used exclusively for church and educational purposes.
(Ga. L. 1977, p. 3533, § 7)
Sec. 8. - Eminent domain power.
The Authority shall have the right and power of eminent domain for the purpose of acquiring property for public use in the carrying out of its aims and objectives; provided, however, that no such power shall be exercised as to any specific property until a resolution has been adopted by the Mayor and a two-thirds vote of the Council of the City of Athens approving the condemnation of such property.
(Ga. L. 1977, p. 3533, § 8; Ga. L. 19)
Sec. 9. - Approval of mayor and council required to exercise taxing power, etc.
The power to tax and to issue bonds or revenue certificates shall require the approval of the mayor and a two-thirds vote of the council of the City of Athens as a condition precedent thereto, and with regard to any tax levy recommended to pay any indebtedness evidenced by bonds or revenue certificates issued by the Authority, the approval of the levy shall be mandatory to the extent that the proceeds therefrom are necessary for the payment of current principal and interest requirements and the maintenance of sinking fund requirements therefor.
(Ga. L. 1977, p. 3533, § 9)
Sec. 10. - When effective.
This Act [chapter] shall become effective upon its approval by the Governor, or upon its becoming law without his approval, but the tax levies provided for herein shall be effective beginning January 1, 1978.
(Ga. L. 1977, p. 3533, § 10)
Sec. 11. - Repealer.
All laws and parts of laws in conflict with this Act [chapter] are hereby repealed.
(Ga. L. 1977, p. 3533, § 11)
GEORGIA LAWS 1987, P. 3825—DOWNTOWN ATHENS DEVELOPMENT AUTHORITY—LOCAL CONSTITUTIONAL AMENDMENT CONTINUED

Sec. 1. - [Local constitutional amendment continued.]
That constitutional amendment providing for the establishment of a Downtown Athens Development Authority (Res. Act No. 23; H.R. 205-781; Ga. L. 1975, p. 1698, as amended by Res. Act No. 221; H.R. 754-1946; Ga. L. 1976, p. 1912) shall not be repealed or deleted on July 1, 1987, as a part of the Constitution of the State of Georgia but is specifically continued in force and effect on and after that date as a part of the Constitution of the State of Georgia.
(Ga. L. 1987, p. 3825, § 1)
Sec. 2. - [Passage pursuant to Article XI, Section I.]
This Act is passed pursuant to Article XI, Section I, Paragraph IV of the Constitution of the State of Georgia which authorizes the continuation of certain amendments to the Constitution.
(Ga. L. 1987, p. 3825, § 2)
Sec. 3. - [Repealer.]
All laws and parts of laws in conflict with the Act are repealed.
(Ga. L. 1987, p. 3825, § 3)
