CHAPTER 1. - ATHENS-CLARKE COUNTY INDUSTRIAL DEVELOPMENT AUTHORITY
Georgia Laws 1960, p. 1379—Athens-Clarke County
Industrial Development Authority
Sec. 1. [Created; purpose; membership; etc.]
Georgia Laws 1981, p. 3972—Athens-Clarke County Industrial Development Authority—Powers
Sec. 1. Definitions.
Sec. 2. Purpose.
Sec. 3. Additional powers granted.
Sec. 4. Financing of pollution control projects authorized.
Sec. 5. Financing of industrial projects authorized.
Sec. 6. Use of bond proceeds.
Sec. 7. Conditions precedent to issuance of bonds.
Sec. 8. Validation.
Sec. 9. Interest rates.
Sec. 10. Repealer.
Sec. 11. Construction of act.
Sec. 12. Severability.
Sec. 13. Effective date.
Georgia Laws 1985, p. 4134—Athens-Clarke County Industrial Development Authority—Local Constitutional
Amendment Continued
Sec. 1. [Continuation of Georgia Laws 1960, p 1379.]
Sec. 2. [Passage pursuant to Article XI, Section I.]
Sec. 3. [Repealer.]
Georgia Laws, 1992, p. 6556—Athens-Clarke County
Industrial Development Authority—Membership
Sec. 1. [Amendment to Section 8-101 of An Act Establishing the Unified Government of Athens-Clarke County, Georgia, Approved March 2, 1990 (Ga. L. 1990, p. 3560)].
Sec. 2. [Repealer.]
GEORGIA LAWS 1960, P. 1379—ATHENS-CLARKE COUNTY INDUSTRIAL DEVELOPMENT AUTHORITY

Sec. 1. - [Created; purpose; membership; etc.]
Article VII, section V, paragraph I of the constitution is hereby amended by adding at the end thereof the following:
Athens-Clarke County Industrial Development Authority.
"A.
Created. There is hereby created a body corporate and politic to be known as the Athens-Clarke County Industrial Development Authority; which shall be deemed to be an instrumentality of the State of Georgia and a public corporation, and in that name, style and title said body may contract and be contracted with, sue and be sued, plead and be interpleaded, and complain and defend in all courts of law and equity. In the event the name of said Authority shall ever become the subject of change same may be accomplished by an act of the General Assembly.
"B.
Purpose. The said Authority is created for the purpose of expanding and developing industry in Clarke County and for improving the general welfare of said county.
"C.
Members; terms; vacancies; oath; compensation. The said Authority shall consist of five (5) members, one (1) of whom shall be the mayor of the City of Athens; one (1) of whom shall be the chairman of the board of commissioners of roads and revenues of Clarke County; one (1) of whom shall be the president of the Athens Chamber of Commerce[,] Inc.; one (1) of whom shall be appointed by the commissioners of roads and revenues of Clarke County; and one (1) of whom shall be appointed by the mayor and council of the City of Athens.
"(1)
The terms of office of the members who are the mayor of the City of Athens, the chairman of the board of commissioners of roads and revenues of Clarke County, and the president of the Athens Chamber of Commerce, Inc. shall run concurrently with their tenure of office, and their successor in such respective offices shall succeed them as members of the said Authority.
"(2)
The member initially appointed by the mayor and council of the City of Athens shall be appointed for a term expiring December 31, 1961; and the member initially appointed by the commissioners of roads and revenue of Clarke County shall be appointed for a term expiring December 31, 1962; and thereafter their successors shall be appointed for terms of two (2) years. In the event of the death or resignation of one (1) of said members, his successor shall be appointed by the appropriate appointing authority for the balance of the unexpired term.
"(3)
Prior to taking office the members shall subscribe to the following oath which shall be filed in the office of the clerk of the City of Athens to-wit: "[']I do solemnly swear that I will fully and fairly perform the duties as a member of the Athens-Clarke County Industrial Development Authority. So Help Me God.[']"
"(4)
The members of the said Authority shall be entitled to no compensation.
"D.
Definitions. As used herein, the following words and terms shall have the following meanings, unless a different meaning clearly appears from the context:
"(1)
The word "Authority" shall mean the "Athens-Clarke County Industrial Development Authority," created hereby.
"(2)
The word "project" shall be deemed to mean and include the acquisition of lands, properties and improvements for development, expansion and promotion of industry and the construction of buildings and plants or the acquisition of equipment for the purpose of selling, leasing or renting such structures or equipment to private persons, firms or corporations.
"(3)
The term "cost of project" shall embrace the cost of construction, cost of lands, properties, easements, rights and franchises acquired, the cost of machinery and equipment, financing charges, interest prior to and during construction, architectural and legal expenses, and plans and specifications and other expenses necessary or incident to determining the feasibility or practicability of the project, administrative expenses, and such other expenses as may be necessary or incident to the financing herein authorized, the construction of any project and placing the same in operation; provided, however, that in no event shall entertainment or promotional expenses be considered a part of the cost of any project.
"E.
Quorum. Any three (3) members shall constitute a quorum for the transaction of ordinary business of the Authority; however, any action with respect to any project of the Authority must be approved by not less than three (3) affirmative votes.
"F.
Powers. The powers of the Authority herein created shall include, but not limited to, the power:
"(1)
To have a seal and alter the same at pleasure.
"(2)
To contract and be contracted with, sue and be sued, implead or be impleaded, and complain and defend in all courts of law and equity, to contract with other political subdivisions and with private persons and corporations.
"(3)
To acquire, hold, and dispose of real and personal property, including the stock of other corporations for its corporate purposes.
"(4)
To buy, acquire, receive as gifts, improve, own, operate, maintain, sell, lease as lessor and lessee, and mortgage as well as execute deeds to secure debt to and for land, buildings, and property of all kinds within the County of Clarke.
"(5)
To enter into contracts for periods of time not in excess of one hundred (100) years.
"(6)
To acquire in its own name by purchase on such terms and conditions, and in such manner as it may deem proper, real property or rights of easement therein or franchises necessary or convenient for its corporate purposes, and to use the same so long as its corporate existence shall continue and to lease or make contracts with respect to the use of or dispose of the same in any manner it deems to be the best advantage of the Authority. If the Authority shall deem it expedient to construct any project or use any project already constructed on lands, the title to which shall be in the County of Clarke and/or the mayor and council of the City of Athens, the governing authorities of the County of Clarke and the mayor and council of the City of Athens are authorized in their discretion to convey title to such lands, including any improvements thereon, to the Authority.
"(7)
To encourage and promote the expansion of industry in the City of Athens and in the County of Clarke, and to make a long range plan therefor.
"(8)
To appoint and select officers, agents, and employees, including engineering, architectural and construction experts, fiscal agents and attorneys, and to fix their compensation.
"(9)
To make contracts, and to execute all instruments necessary or convenient, including contracts for construction of projects, and leases, and rental and sale of projects, or contracts with respect to the use of projects, which it erects or acquires.
"(10)
To construct, erect, acquire, own, repair, remodel, maintain, extend, improve, sell, equip, expand, add to, operate and manage projects and to pay the costs of any such project from the proceeds of revenue-anticipation certificates or bonds or any other income of the Authority, or from any contribution or loans by persons, firms, or corporations, all of which the Authority is hereby authorized to receive and accept and use.
"(11)
To elect its own officers from the membership of the Authority; to elect an executive director who is not required to be a member of the Authority; and to authorize and empower such officers to act for the Authority generally or in any specific matter.
"(12)
To issue revenue-anticipation certificates for the purpose of paying all or any part of the cost of any project of the Authority. To exercise all of the rights, powers and privileges and be subject to the same liabilities as a municipality under the provisions of the Revenue Certificate Law of 1937 (Ga. L. 1937, pp. 761-774), and as subsequently amended, with reference to the issuance of such revenue-anticipation certificates and validation of same insofar as such pertain to the corporate purposes of the Authority.
"(13)
To borrow money for any of its corporate purposes and to issue negotiable revenue bonds payable solely from funds or property pledged for that purpose, and to provide for the payment of the same and for the rights of the holders thereof.
"(14)
To use the rents, profits and proceeds from the projects erected, leased or sold, to provide maintenance for such projects, and to discharge the principal and interest of revenue bonds or certificates issued by the Authority.
"(15)
To borrow money for any of its corporate purposes and to execute debentures, bonds, notes, mortgages, deeds to secure debt, trust deeds and other such instruments as may be necessary or convenient to evidence and secure such borrowing.
"(16)
To do all things within its powers to encourage industrial growth development in Clarke County, and to encourage the location of new industries in said County.
"(17)
To exercise any power granted by the laws of the State of Georgia to public or private corporations performing similar functions, which is not in conflict with the constitution and laws of this state.
"(18)
To accumulate its funds from year to year and to invest accumulated funds in any manner that public funds of the State of Georgia or any of its political subdivisions may be invested.
"(19)
To receive and administer gifts, grants and donations and to administer trusts.
"(20)
To do all things necessary and convenient to carry out the powers expressly conferred by this resolution [this section] upon the Authority.
"(21)
To adopt, alter or repeal its own bylaws, rules and regulations governing the manner in which its business may be transacted and in which the power granted to it may be enjoyed, as the Authority may deem necessary or expedient in facilitating its business.
"G.
Bonds. It shall be the duty of the Authority to have all persons handling funds of the Authority fully and adequately bonded for their faithful accounting for such funds.
"H.
Debt. The Authority shall not be allowed to create in any manner any debt, liability or operation, against the mayor and council of the City of Athens, the State of Georgia, nor Clarke County.
"I.
Tax exemptions. The obligations and interest on the obligations of the Authority shall have the same exemptions from taxation as obligations and interests on the obligations of the mayor and council of the City of Athens and of Clarke County.
"J.
Projects. All projects of the Authority shall be on a self-liquidating basis, and the Authority shall not make gifts, directly or indirectly, to any person, firm or corporation.
"K.
Title to property if Authority dissolved. Should said Authority for any reason be dissolved, title to all property of every kind and nature, real and personal, held by the Authority at the time of such dissolution, shall revert to the mayor and council of the City of Athens and to Clarke County[,] subject to any mortgages, liens, leases or other encumbrances outstanding against or in respect to said property.
"L.
Audits; records. The books and records of the Authority shall be audited at least annually, at the expense of the Authority, by a competent independent auditor; and the minutes and records of the same shall be filed with the clerk of the mayor and council of the City of Athens and shall be available for public inspection.
"M.
Intent. The rights and powers herein [in this section] conferred upon the Authority are self executing and no enabling act of the General Assembly shall be necessary."
(Ga. L. 1960, p. 1379, § 1)
State Law reference— Revenue Bond Law, OCGA § 36-82-60 et seq.
GEORGIA LAWS 1981, P. 3972—ATHENS-CLARKE COUNTY INDUSTRIAL DEVELOPMENT AUTHORITY—POWERS[2]

Footnotes:
--- (2) ---
State Law reference— Revenue Bond Law, OCGA § 36-82-60 et seq.

Sec. 1. - Definitions.
As used in this Act:
(a)
The term "assisted person" means any private persons, firms, or corporations for which a project is undertaken or proposed to be undertaken.
(b)
The term "Authority" shall mean the Athens-Clark[e]s County Industrial Development Authority created pursuant to an amendment to the constitution of Georgia ratified at the general election held on November 8, 1960 (Ga. Laws 1960, p. 1379, et seq.) [section 1.1].
(c)
The term "Authority act" shall mean the above referred to constitutional amendment pursuant to which the Authority was created.
(d)
The term "bonds" shall mean any bonds, notes, certificates or obligations of any kind issued by the Authority to evidence any repayment obligations for money borrowed by the Authority.
(e)
The term "cost" with respect to any project herein authorized shall have the same meaning as the definition of "cost of project" in the Authority act.
(f)
The term "industrial project" shall mean projects consisting of lands, properties and improvements for development, expansion and promotion of industry and the construction of buildings and plants or the acquisition of equipment for the use and benefit of assisted persons.
(g)
The term "pollution control project" shall mean the acquisition, construction, improvement or modification of any property, real or personal, to be used as air or water pollution control facilities which any federal, state or local agency having jurisdiction in the premises shall have certified as necessary for the operation or the continued operation of the industry or the industries which the same is to serve and is necessary for the public welfare. For purposes hereof, the term "air pollution control facility" shall mean any property used primarily to abate or control atmospheric pollution or contamination by removing, containing, altering, disposing or storing atmospheric pollutants or contaminants if such facility is in furtherance of federal, state or local standards for control of atmospheric pollution or contaminants. For the purposes hereof, the term "water pollution control facility" shall mean any property used primarily to control water pollution by removing, storing, altering or disposing of pollutants, contaminants, wastes or heat, including, but not limited to, the necessary intercepting sewers, outfall sewer pumping, power and other equipment, holding ponds, lagoons and appurtenances thereto, if such facility is in furtherance of federal, state or local standards for the control of water pollution.
(Ga. L. 1981, p. 3972, § 1)
Sec. 2. - Purpose.
It is the purpose of this Act to grant to the Authority additional powers so that the Authority may more effectively carry out the purpose for which it was created, namely expanding and developing industry in Athens and Clarke County and for improving the general welfare of said city and county.
(Ga. L. 1981, p. 3972, § 2)
Sec. 3. - Additional powers granted.
The Authority is hereby empowered, in addition to the powers granted to it pursuant to the aforesaid constitutional amendment, to exercise the powers granted to it by this Act.
(Ga. L. 1981, p. 3972, § 3)
Sec. 4. - Financing of pollution control projects authorized.
The authority may issue bonds to finance, for the benefit of assisted persons, pollution control projects if any federal, state or local agency having jurisdiction in [on] the premises shall have certified that the project is necessary for the operation or the continued operation of the industry or industries which the same is to serve and is necessary for the public welfare.
(Ga. L. 1981, p. 3972, § 4)
Sec. 5. - Financing of industrial projects authorized.
The Authority may issue bonds to finance, for the benefit of the assisted persons, industrial projects.
(Ga. L. 1981, p. 3972, § 5)
Sec. 6. - Use of bond proceeds.
The Authority may use the proceeds derived from the sale of bonds to finance the cost of any pollution control project or any industrial project by acquiring the project in the name of the Authority for the purpose of leasing or selling the same to the assisted person for whom the project is undertaken, or by lending the proceeds of the sale of the bonds to such assisted person directly, all as shall be provided in the resolution adopted by the Authority to authorize the issuance of the bonds.
(Ga. L. 1981, p. 3972, § 6)
Sec. 7. - Conditions precedent to issuance of bonds.
Prior to the issuance of any bonds by the Authority for the benefit of any assisted person, the assisted person shall have become irrevocably obligated, by whatever type of contract is deemed to be appropriate in connection with the form of the transaction selected, to make payments to the Authority at appropriate times and in amounts which are at least sufficient to permit the payment of the principal of, premium (if any) and the interest on the bonds as the same mature and become payable, and all costs and expenses in connection therewith.
(Ga. L. 1981, p. 3972, § 7)
Sec. 8. - Validation.
Bonds issued to finance projects authorized pursuant to this Act [this section] shall be validated pursuant to the provisions of the Revenue Bond Law (Ga. Laws 1937, page 761, et seq.), as now or hereafter amended.
(Ga. L. 1981, p. 3972, § 8)
Sec. 9. - Interest rates.
Any bonds issued by the Authority shall be exempt from all laws of the state governing usury or prescribing or limiting interest rates to be borne by any such bonds. The interest rate or rates to be borne by any bonds issued by the Authority shall be fixed, and with respect to any interest rate which floats in response to a variable the method of calculation shall be fixed, by the governing body of the Authority in the resolution adopted by the governing body of the Authority authorizing the issuance of any such bonds.
(Ga. L. 1981, p. 3972, § 9)
Sec. 10. - Repealer.
All provisions in all laws are hereby repealed to the extent the same are in conflict with the provisions of this Act.
(Ga. L. 1981, p. 3972, § 10)
Sec. 11. - Construction of act.
The provisions of this Act shall be liberally construed to effect the purposes hereof, and insofar as the provisions of this Act [this section] may be inconsistent with the provisions of any other law, this Act shall control.
(Ga. L. 1981, p. 3972, § 11)
Sec. 12. - Severability.
The provisions of this Act [this section] are hereby declared to be severable. If any provision of this Act [this section] or the application of such provision to any circumstance is held invalid for any reason whatsoever, the remainder of this Act [this section] or the application of the provision to other circumstances shall not be affected thereby.
(Ga. L. 1981, p. 3972, § 12)
Sec. 13. - Effective date.
This Act shall become effective upon its approval by the Governor or upon its becoming law without the Governor's approval.
(Ga. L. 1981, p. 3972, § 13)
GEORGIA LAWS 1985, P. 4134—ATHENS-CLARKE COUNTY INDUSTRIAL DEVELOPMENT AUTHORITY—LOCAL CONSTITUTIONAL AMENDMENT CONTINUED

Sec. 1. - [Continuation of Georgia Laws 1960, p. 1379.]
That constitutional amendment creating the Athens-Clarke County Industrial Development Authority which was proposed by Resolution Act No. 194 enacted at the 1960 session of the General Assembly (Ga. L. 1960, p. 1379) and which was duly ratified shall not be repealed or deleted on July 1, 1987, as a part of the constitution of the State of Georgia but is specifically continued in force and effect on and after that date as a part of the constitution of the State of Georgia.
(Ga. L. 1985, p. 4134, § 1)
Sec. 2. - [Passage pursuant to Article XI, Section I.]
This Act is passed pursuant to Article XI, section I, paragraph IV of the constitution of the State of Georgia which authorizes the continuation of certain amendments to the constitution.
(Ga. L. 1985, p. 4134, § 2)
Sec. 3. - [Repealer.]
All laws and parts of laws in conflict with this Act are repealed.
(Ga. L. 1985, p. 4134, § 3)
GEORGIA LAWS, 1992, P. 6556— ATHENS-CLARKE COUNTY INDUSTRIAL DEVELOPMENT AUTHORITY—MEMBERSHIP

Sec. 1. - [Amendment to Section 8-101 of an Act establishing the Unified Government of Athens-Clarke County, Georgia, approved March 2, 1990 (Ga. L. 1990, p. 3560)].
An Act establishing the Unified Government of Athens-Clarke County, Georgia, approved March 2, 1990 (Ga. L. 1990, p. 3560), as amended, is amended by adding at the end of Section 8-101 a new subsection to read as follows:
"(e) The Athens-Clarke County Industrial Development Authority, created by a local amendment to the Constitution (Ga. L. 1960, P. 1379) and continued in force and effect by an Act approved March 27, 1985 (Ga. L. 1985, p. 4134), provided that the membership of that Authority is composed of or appointed by governmental authorities which no longer exist because of the unification of those authorities as the Unified Government of Athens-Clarke County, Georgia, effected by this Act. Article XI, Section I, Paragraph IV and Article X, Section I, Paragraph I of the Constitution prohibit the amendment of such local constitutional amendments. Article IX, Section III, Paragraph II(a) of the Constitution, however, grants the General Assembly the power in providing for local government consolidation to 'provide by law for any matters necessary or convenient to authorize the consolidation ….' It is thus found by the General Assembly that the consolidation which resulted in the Unified Government necessitates, and therefore constitutionally authorizes, that the membership positions on the Athens-Clarke County Industrial Development Authority be construed to mean the following:
(1)
The membership position on the Authority specified to be held by the Mayor of the City of Athens shall be construed to refer to the Chief Executive Officer of the Unified Government;
(2)
The membership position on the Authority specified to be held by the Chairman of the Board of Commissioners of Roads and Revenue of Clarke County shall be construed to refer to a person recommended by the Chief Executive Officer of the Unified Government and appointed by the Commission of that government;
(3)
The membership position on the Authority specified to be held by a person appointed by the Commissioners of Roads and Revenue of Clarke County shall be construed to refer to a member of the Commission of the Unified Government who has been appointed to the Authority by such Commission;
(4)
The membership position on the Authority specified to be held by a person appointed by the Mayor and Council of the City of Athens shall be construed to refer to a person appointed by the Commission of the Unified Government; and
(5)
The membership position on the Authority specified to be held by the President of the Athens Chamber of Commerce, Inc., shall be construed to refer to the Chairman of the Board of the Athens Area Chamber of Commerce, Inc."
(Ga. L. 1992, p. 6556, § 1; Ga. L. 2003, p. 4250, § 1)
Sec. 2. - [Repealer.]
All laws and parts of laws in conflict with this Act are hereby repealed.
(Ga. L. 1992, p. 6556, § 2)
