ARTICLE VIII. - GENERAL PROVISIONS
Section 8-101. Application of laws; laws in force.
Section 8-102. Limitation on claims and service.
Section 8-103. Tort and nuisance liability.
Section 8-104. Conflict of laws.
Section 8-105. Competitive bidding.
Section 8-106. Execution of assessments.
Section 8-107. Authority to deal with federal and state agencies.
Section 8-108. Federal and state aid.
Section 8-109. Budgets of county officers and agencies.
Section 8-110. Existing pension rights protected.
Section 8-111. Establishment of new pension systems; merging of existing systems.
Section 8-112. Amending Charter.
Section 8-113. Fidelity bonds.
Section 8-114. Examples of powers.
Section 8-115. Provision of services.
Section 8-116. The overview commission.
Section 8-117. Historic items.
Section 8-118. Section captions.
Section 8-119. Effect of repeals.
Section 8-120. Severability clause.
Section 8-121. Repeal of conflicting laws.

Section 8-101. - Application of laws; laws in force.
(a)
The general laws of the State of Georgia of a criminal nature shall be applicable to and within the limits of the unified government. General laws of local application through classification by population, not in conflict with this Charter:
(1)
Which on the effective date of this Charter apply to the City of Athens or Clarke County, Georgia, shall be applicable to the unified government; and
(2)
Which apply to the unified government as either a city or a county at the time of their enactment or thereafter shall be effective; but those which did not apply to the City of Athens or Clarke County or the unified government at the time of their enactment shall not become applicable to the unified government except through the adoption of a resolution to that effect by the commission.
(b)
Local acts of the State of Georgia which apply specifically to either Clarke County, the City of Athens, or both shall be applicable to the unified government.
(c)
In construing the applicability of provisions of the Constitution and the general laws of Georgia which apply in general terms to either counties, municipalities or both, and local acts of the General Assembly that apply specifically to Clarke County, the City of Athens, or both, the following terms as used in such laws shall be construed to include the unified government as follows:
(1)
"County" shall be construed to include Athens-Clarke County, Georgia;
(2)
"City," "town," "municipal corporation" or "municipality" shall be construed to include Athens-Clarke County, Georgia;
(3)
"Commissioners of roads and revenues" and "board of county commissioners" shall be construed to include the Commission of Athens-Clarke County, Georgia;
(4)
"Council," "mayor and council," "aldermen" and "board of aldermen" shall be construed to include the Commission of Athens-Clarke County, Georgia;
(5)
"Chairman of the commissioners of roads and revenues" and "chairman of the board of county commissioners" shall be construed to include the mayor of Athens-Clarke County, Georgia;
(6)
"Mayor" shall be construed to include the chief elected officer of Athens-Clarke County, Georgia; and
(7)
Any other terms and provisions as used in such acts to refer specifically to Clarke County or the City of Athens, or both, and the officers, employees, departments and agencies thereof shall be construed to mean Athens-Clarke County, Georgia, and its officers, employees, departments and agencies.
(d)
In construing the applicability of laws in force to the unified government, the following order shall prevail:
(1)
The Constitution of the State of Georgia;
(2)
The general laws of uniform application now in force or hereafter enacted by the General Assembly (as distinguished from general laws of local application through classification by population) applicable to municipal corporations, or counties, or both;
(3)
The general laws of local application through classification by population as and to the extent provided in subsection (a) of this section;
(4)
Special laws applicable to Clarke County not in conflict with this Charter;
(5)
Special laws applicable to the City of Athens not in conflict with this Charter;
(6)
This Charter and all ordinances and resolutions passed pursuant thereto; and
(7)
Existing ordinances and resolutions of the former City of Athens and existing ordinances and resolutions of the former County of Clarke not in conflict with this Charter.
(e)
The Athens-Clarke County Industrial Development Authority, created by a local amendment to the Constitution (Ga. L. 1960, p. 1379) and continued in force and effect by an Act approved March 27, 1985 (Ga. L. 1985, p. 4134), provides that the membership of that Authority is composed of or appointed by governmental authorities which no longer exist because of the unification of those authorities as the Unified Government of Athens-Clarke County, Georgia, effected by this Act. Article XI, Section I, Paragraph IV and Article X, Section I, Paragraph I of the Constitution prohibit the amendment of such local constitutional amendments. Article IX, Section III, Paragraph II(a) of the Constitution, however, grants the General Assembly the power in providing for local government consolidation to 'provide by law for any matters necessary or convenient to authorize the consolidation....' It is thus found by the General Assembly that the consolidation which resulted in the Unified Government necessitates, and therefore constitutionally authorizes, that the membership positions on the Athens-Clarke County Industrial Development Authority be construed to mean the following:
(1)
The membership position on the Authority specified to be held by the Mayor of the City of Athens shall be construed to refer to the Mayor of the Unified Government;
(2)
The membership position on the Authority specified to be held by the Chairman of the Board of Commissioners of Roads and Revenue of Clarke County shall be construed to refer to a member of the Commission of the Unified Government who has been appointed to the Authority by such Commission;
(3)
The membership position on the Authority specified to be held by a person appointed by the Commissioners of Roads and Revenues of Clarke County shall be construed to refer to a person recommended by the Mayor of the Unified Government and appointed by the Commission of that government;
(4)
The membership position on the Authority specified to be held by a person appointed by the Mayor and Council of the City of Athens shall be construed to refer to a person appointed by the Commission of the Unified Government; and
(5)
The membership position on the Authority specified to be held by the President of the Athens Chamber of Commerce, Inc., shall be construed to refer to the Chairperson of the Board of the Athens Area Chamber of Commerce, Inc.
(Ga. Laws 1992, p. 6556, § 1; Ord. of 7-2-96, § 1; Ord. of 7-6-99, § 1; Ga. Laws 2003, p. 4250, § 1; 2009 Ga. Laws (Act No. 223), p. 3788, § 1)
Section 8-102. - Limitation on claims and service.
(a)
All claims against the unified government must be presented within twelve (12) months after they accrue or become payable or the same are barred, provided that minors or other persons laboring under disabilities shall be allowed twelve (12) months after the removal of the disability to present their claims. This provision is intended to afford the unified government the same ante litem notice requirements afforded to counties under Code Section 36-11-1 of the O.C.G.A.
(b)
Service on the unified government of any suit, process or order of court shall be served upon the mayor.
(Ord. of 7-2-96, § 1; Ord. of 7-6-99, § 1; 2002 Ga. Laws, p. 4737, § 2)
Section 8-103. - Tort and nuisance liability.
The tort and nuisance liability of the unified government shall follow the law and rules of tort liability applicable to counties in Georgia.
Section 8-104. - Conflict of laws.
For purposes of all applicable laws, the unified government shall constitute a municipality and a county or both. Except as otherwise provided by this Charter, if a law applicable to municipalities and the same or another law applicable to counties are in conflict, the law applicable to municipalities shall prevail.
Section 8-105. - Competitive bidding.
All departments and agencies of the unified government must utilize competitive bidding procedures, as specified in an ordinance of the commission, for all purchases in excess of an amount provided for in an ordinance of the commission, unless such purchase shall be otherwise approved by seven (7) of the ten (10) commissioners.
Section 8-106. - Execution of assessments.
Whenever any tax or special assessment is authorized or empowered to be levied or imposed by this Charter which is required to be collected by the unified government and such is not paid within the time period specified by the commission and no specific provision is elsewhere provided in this Charter for its collection, then the manager shall issue execution in the name of the unified government against such person, firm or entity liable therefor or property subject thereto for such sums as may be due with interest at the legal rate from due date, and penalties and costs. The unified government shall have the right to enforce payment of such execution by levy and sale as in the case of county taxes, and the purchaser at such sale shall acquire the same title and rights as a purchaser at a sale for county taxes. Executions issued by the manager of Athens-Clarke County, Georgia, and the levy and sale thereunder shall be governed by general law.
Section 8-107. - Authority to deal with federal and state agencies.
The unified government shall have the power and authority to participate in, cooperate in and take all necessary action with respect to any and all projects, programs and undertakings of any nature authorized by any statute, rule or regulation of the United States, the State of Georgia, or any federal or state agency or instrumentality, including, but not limited to, community development, highways, aviation, aviation terminals, airports, airport facilities, municipal area or regional development, sewer and sewage disposal, public housing, housing for the aged, and transportation or mass transit or any phase thereof; to borrow money and issue promissory notes, general obligation bonds or revenue bonds or a combination thereof for any such purposes in accordance with provisions of this Charter; and to execute mortgages or deeds of trust in favor of any federal agency, secured by property of which the unified government is the legal or beneficial or equitable owner, or in favor of any private agency where the loan is guaranteed by a federal agency.
Section 8-108. - Federal and state aid.
The unified government shall be deemed a county but shall also be deemed an incorporated city or municipality for the purpose of determining its right to receive, and for the purpose of receiving state aid or grant-in-aid from the State of Georgia or from the United States or from any agency or instrumentality thereof or from any other source, public or private. The unified government shall be entitled to receive as state aid or as grant-in-aid from the State of Georgia or from the United States or from any agency or instrumentality thereof or from any other source, public or private, all funds to which a county is, or may hereafter be, entitled and also all funds to which an incorporated city or municipality is or may be hereafter entitled, and to receive the same without diminution or loss by reason of unification. When state aid or other grant-in-aid is distributed to any county on the basis of population or area, or both, then the entire population and the total area of Athens-Clarke County, Georgia, shall be considered in calculating and determining the basis for such distribution. When state aid or other grant-in-aid is distributed to any county on the basis of rural area, rural road mileage or rural population, or any combination thereof, then that area of the general services area outside of the urban services area or areas shall be deemed to constitute rural area, its road mileage to constitute rural road mileage, and its population to constitute rural population. When state aid or other grant-in-aid is distributed to any incorporated city or municipality on the basis of population or area, or both, then the population or the area of the urban services area or areas of Athens-Clarke County, Georgia, shall be deemed the population and the area used in calculating and determining the basis of such distribution.
Section 8-109. - Budgets of county officers and agencies.
All elective officers and all agencies not under the direct control and jurisdiction of the manager, such as the board of health and the board of family and children services, which receive appropriations from the commission shall, on the same date as is applicable to budgets submitted by department heads, submit to the manager annual operating and capital budget requests for the ensuing fiscal year. Such budget requests, after any revisions therein by the manager and the mayor, shall be incorporated into the overall unified government budget for submission by the mayor to the commission, which shall grant a hearing to any such officer or agency on such proposed budgets.
(Ord. of 7-2-96, § 1; Ord. of 7-6-99, § 1)
Section 8-110. - Existing pension rights protected.
(a)
Persons who, at the time this Charter takes effect, are employed by any office, department, board, commission or agency of the former City of Athens shall retain all pension rights which have accrued to them under any existing pension system. The unified government shall continue in force and effect any existing pension system for city employees covered thereby who are employed by the unified government, and the services of such employees shall not be deemed to have been interrupted by the adoption of this Charter.
(b)
Persons who, at the time this Charter takes effect, are employed by any office, department, board, commission or agency of the former County of Clarke shall retain all rights which have accrued to them under any existing pension system. The unified government shall continue in force and effect any existing pension system for county employees covered thereby who are employed by the unified government, and the services of such employees shall not be deemed to have been interrupted by the adoption of this Charter.
Section 8-111. - Establishment of new pension systems; merging of existing systems.
The commission is hereby authorized and empowered to establish and maintain a new pension system or pension systems affecting new employees and such other employees as desire to be covered thereby and to revise, combine and consolidate any pension system in effect on the effective date of this Charter; provided, however, that in no event shall any revision, combination or unification of any existing pension system in effect when this Charter is adopted result in the curtailment or diminishment of any right accrued under any existing pension system to any person heretofore employed by the City of Athens, Clarke County or of any agency of such former governments.
Section 8-112. - Amending Charter.
This Charter may be modified, rescinded, changed or amended by only the following methods:
(1)
An Act of the General Assembly of Georgia; or
(2)
An ordinance adopted by the Commission of Athens-Clarke County, Georgia, as provided for in article IX, section II, paragraph 1 of the Constitution of the State of Georgia.
Section 8-113. - Fidelity bonds.
All officers of the unified government, both elective and appointive, shall execute such official bonds in such amounts and upon such terms and conditions as the law or the commission may require.
Section 8-114. - Examples of powers.
The powers of Athens-Clarke County, Georgia, shall include, but shall not be limited to, the following powers:
(1)
Ad valorem taxation: To levy, assess and collect ad valorem taxes on all taxable property;
(2)
Other taxes: To levy, assess and collect other taxes allowed by general law and in accordance therewith;
(3)
Business regulation and taxation: To levy, assess and collect occupational and business taxes and to license and regulate occupations and businesses. Such taxes may be based on any one or combination of the following criteria:
A.
Gross receipts, notwithstanding the provisions of O.C.G.A. § 48-8-6;
B.
Square footage;
C.
Number of employees;
D.
Fixed fee; or
E.
Any other criterion reasonably related to the purposes of this power.
(4)
Appropriations: To make appropriations and expend funds for support of the unified government and any other lawful purpose;
(5)
Debts: To borrow money and issue bonds as authorized by general law;
(6)
Property: To own property and interests in property;
(7)
Gifts: To accept gifts and grants for any purpose related to the powers and duties of the unified government on such terms as the donor may impose;
(8)
Condemnation: To condemn property inside the unified government for present or future use;
(9)
Public utilities: To acquire, lease, operate and dispose of public utilities;
(10)
Franchises: To grant franchises or make contracts for public utilities and to prescribe the conditions of such franchises and contracts;
(11)
Roadways: To open, maintain, improve, and close streets and roads and to grant franchises and rights-of-way thereon;
(12)
Public facilities: To acquire, operate and dispose of public buildings, public projects, parks, cemeteries, recreational facilities and other public improvements inside the unified government;
(13)
Building regulation: To regulate the building trades and the construction of buildings and to adopt and enforce building, housing, plumbing, electrical, gas, heating and air-conditioning codes;
(14)
Planning and zoning: To adopt land use plans and exercise the power of zoning, subdivision regulation and the like;
(15)
Police power: To exercise the police power for the public safety and well-being of the citizens of the unified government; without limitation, the unified government is authorized to make contributions out of funds appropriated therefor to eligible organizations for purely charitable purposes as defined by O.C.G.A. § 36-1-19.1(d) to be used for payment of costs related to the relief of indigent, impoverished or distressed citizens of the unified government in order to promote the public safety and well-being of the citizens of the unified government by thereby preventing the spread of disease; promoting the welfare of its citizens, including particularly children and families; and mitigating the burdens of government arising from indigency, sickness and illnesses among the citizens of the unified government;
(16)
Roadside regulation: To prohibit or regulate signs, bill-boards and other items upon or adjacent to streets and roads;
(17)
Health: To prescribe and enforce health and sanitation standards;
(18)
Pollution: To regulate emissions which pollute the air and water;
(19)
Fire safety: To fix fire limits and to prescribe and enforce fire-safety regulations;
(20)
Public hazards: To provide for the destruction or removal of public hazards;
(21)
Waste disposal: To provide for and regulate the collection, disposal, and recycling of garbage and wastes;
(22)
Water and sewer fees: To fix and collect water and sewer fees;
(23)
Garbage fees: To fix and collect garbage fees;
(24)
Nuisances: To define and provide for the abatement of nuisances;
(25)
Property protection: To preserve and protect the property of the unified government;
(26)
Prisoners: To provide for public work by prisoners and for their confinement;
(27)
Animal control: To regulate or prohibit the keeping of animals;
(28)
Motor vehicles: To regulate the operation and parking of motor vehicles;
(29)
Taxicabs: To regulate vehicles operated for hire in the unified government;
(30)
Pensions: To provide and maintain a system of pensions and retirement for employees and officers of the unified government;
(31)
Special assessments: To levy, assess and collect special assessments to cover the cost of public improvements;
(32)
Contracts: To enter into lawful contracts and agreements;
(33)
Agencies: To create, alter or abolish departments, boards, offices, commissions, authorities and agencies of the unified government and to confer appropriate authority upon them;
(34)
Penalties: To provide penalties for violations of ordinances of the unified government;
(35)
Police and fire protection: To exercise the power of arrest through appointed policemen and to operate a fire department;
(36)
Emergencies: To provide for the determination, proclamation and combatting of emergencies;
(37)
Urban redevelopment: To organize and operate an urban redevelopment program;
(38)
Public transportation: To organize and operate public transportation systems; and
(39)
General health, safety and welfare: To define, regulate and prohibit any act, practice, conduct or use of property which is detrimental to the health, sanitation, cleanliness, welfare and safety of the inhabitants of the unified government.
( Ord. of 6-2-2020(1), § 1 )
Section 8-115. - Provision of services.
When determining services to be provided, the unified government shall always attempt:
(1)
To efficiently allocate resources to increase the quality of life for all citizens of Athens-Clarke County;
(2)
To provide the highest quality services to all citizens of Athens-Clarke County;
(3)
To ensure efficient utilization of community resources;
(4)
To promote equity for all citizens in the delivery of governmental services throughout Athens-Clarke County; and
(5)
To recognize and consider the advantages of the provision of services through contractual arrangements with other governments and private enterprises.
Section 8-116. - The overview commission.
(a)
In order to provide a more efficient and responsive government for the citizens of Athens-Clarke County, an overview commission shall be established to review the operation of the unified government. Such evaluation shall be completed every ten (10) years, or sooner if determined to be necessary by a majority vote of the commission.
(b)
The overview commission shall be composed of a minimum of twenty-one (21) individuals to be appointed by the grand jury sitting immediately prior to January 1st of the year of convocation of the overview commission. Members of the overview commission shall be registered voters in Athens-Clarke County and not members of the appointing grand jury. Two (2) members shall be selected from each commission district and one (1) member, who shall serve as chair, from the county at-large. In making appointments to the overview commission, the grand jury shall solicit and consider applications from the citizens of Athens-Clarke County.
(c)
The overview commission shall be convened on the first Tuesday after January 1st beginning in the year 2010, unless sooner convened as determined by a majority vote of the commission of Athens-Clarke County, and every tenth year from the date of convocation thereafter. The overview commission shall complete its review within twelve (12) months of the first meeting date. In reviewing the unified government, the following factors shall be considered:
(1)
The goals and objectives of the unified government;
(2)
The extent to which the unified government has achieved its original objectives in an effective and responsible manner;
(3)
The performance and accomplishments of the agencies of the unified government in the preceding fiscal year, budgetary costs incurred, projected activities and budgets; and
(4)
The extent to which additional programs are needed.
(d)
Upon completion of its review, the overview commission shall make written recommendations published to the mayor and commission and made available to the public.
(Ord. of 12-4-2001, § 7)
Section 8-117. - Historic items.
It shall be the responsibility of the unified government to collect, preserve, and display documents and other items of historical significance to the City of Athens, the City of Winterville and Clarke County.
Section 8-118. - Section captions.
The captions to the several sections of this Charter are informative only and are not be construed as a part thereof.
Section 8-119. - Effect of repeals.
No law heretofore repealed, expressly or by implication, shall be revived by the repeal herein of the repealing act, or by any provision of this Charter that disclaims an intention to repeal or affect enumerated laws.
Section 8-120. - Severability clause.
If any provision of this Charter or the application thereof to any person or circumstance is held invalid, such invalidity shall not affect other provisions or applications of this Charter which can be given effect without the invalid provision or application, and to this end the provisions of this Charter are declared to be severable.
Section 8-121. - Repeal of conflicting laws.
All laws and parts of laws in conflict with this Charter are hereby repealed.
