ARTICLE V. - JUDICIARY
Section 5-101. Superior Court and district attorney; unaffected by Charter; redesignation.
Section 5-102. State Court and solicitor; unaffected by Charter; redesignation.
Section 5-103. Juvenile Court; unaffected by Charter; redesignation.
Section 5-104. Probate Court; unaffected by Charter; redesignation.
Section 5-105. Magistrate Court; unaffected by Charter; redesignation.
Section 5-106. Municipal Court of the City of Athens; continuation of operations in the court of the unified government.

Section 5-101. - Superior Court and district attorney; unaffected by Charter; redesignation.
The Superior Court of Clarke County, including the office of the district attorney, shall continue its operations without interruption resulting from the adoption of this Charter, and nothing herein shall be construed as affecting the status of said court. The court shall be known as the Superior Court of Athens-Clarke County, Georgia.
Section 5-102. - State Court and solicitor; unaffected by Charter; redesignation.
The State Court of Clarke County, including the office of the solicitor, shall continue its operations without interruption resulting from the adoption of this Charter, and nothing herein shall be construed as affecting the status of said court. The court shall be known as the State Court of Athens-Clarke County, Georgia.
Section 5-103. - Juvenile Court; unaffected by Charter; redesignation.
The Juvenile Court of Clarke County shall continue its operations without interruption resulting from the adoption of this Charter, and nothing herein shall be construed as affecting the status of said court. The court shall be known as the Juvenile Court of Athens-Clarke County, Georgia.
Section 5-104. - Probate Court; unaffected by Charter; redesignation.
The Probate Court of Clarke County shall continue its operations without interruption resulting from the adoption of this Charter, and nothing herein shall be construed as affecting the status of said court. The court shall be known as the Probate Court of Athens-Clarke County, Georgia.
Section 5-105. - Magistrate Court; unaffected by Charter; redesignation.
The Magistrate Court of Clarke County shall continue its operations without interruption resulting from the adoption of this Charter, and nothing herein shall be construed as affecting the status of said court. The court shall be known as the Magistrate Court of Athens-Clarke County, Georgia.
Section 5-106. - Municipal Court of the City of Athens; Continuation of Operations in the Court of the Unified Government.
On the effective date of this charter the operations and employees of the Municipal Court of the City of Athens shall continue as the operations and employees of a court of the Unified Government of Athens-Clarke County. The Judge of the Municipal Court of the City of Athens shall be authorized to serve as the Judge of said court. The Unified Government of Athens-Clarke County shall have the authority by ordinance to establish and define the method of selecting the Judge and other personnel necessary to operate the court, their terms of office and compensation, a schedule of fees to defray the cost of operation, and the jurisdiction and powers of said court insofar as permitted by general law and any other applicable law; provided, however, that no such fee so charged shall exceed $5.00 per case or matter before the court.
(2009 Ga. Laws (Act No. 224), p. 3791, § 1)
