CHAPTER 3-17. - JUVENILE DAYTIME CURFEW
Sec. 3-17-1. Purposes.
Sec. 3-17-2. Definitions.
Sec. 3-17-3. Minors prohibited from being upon streets and other public places at certain daytime hours; exceptions.
Sec. 3-17-4. Parental responsibility.
Sec. 3-17-5. Each violation deemed separate offense; affirmative defense for violation of section 3-17-3.
Sec. 3-17-6. Jurisdiction of juvenile and municipal courts.
Sec. 3-17-7. Disposition of violating minors.
Sec. 3-17-8. Responsibility of parent or guardian for supervision of minors expelled or suspended from school.
Sec. 3-17-9. Punishment for violation of section 3-17-8.
Sec. 3-17-10. Affirmative defense to violation of section 3-17-8.
Sec. 3-17-11. Severability.
Sec. 3-17-12. Reserved.

Sec. 3-17-1. - Purposes.
The Commission of Athens-Clarke County has determined that there has been an increase in juvenile violence and crime by persons under the age of 18 in Athens-Clarke County resulting in juveniles being involved in a wide range of unacceptable behavior including armed robberies, robberies, assault and batteries, drug use, breaking and entering; that persons under the age of 18 are particularly susceptible by their lack of maturity and experience to participate in unlawful activity and to be victims of older perpetrators of crime; and that there has been a significant breakdown in the supervision and guidance normally provided by parents for minors resulting in an increase in the crimes and other unacceptable behavior, such as illiteracy, juvenile pregnancy, increased school drop-out rate; Athens-Clarke County has an obligation to provide for the protection of minors from each other and from other persons, for the enforcement of parental control over and responsibility for children, for the protection of the general public, and for the reduction of the incidence of juvenile criminal activities which are not easily controlled by existing laws and ordinances. The Commission of Athens-Clarke County has determined a truancy ordinance for those of school age will be in the interest of the public health, safety, and general welfare and will help to attain the foregoing objectives and to diminish the undesirable impact of such conduct on the citizens of Athens-Clarke County and will promote the public good, safety and welfare. Parental responsibility for the whereabouts of children is the accepted norm and legal sanctions to enforce such responsibility have had demonstrated effectiveness in many cities. The Commission of Athens-Clarke County has determined that a truancy ordinance will increase parental responsibility for minors within their control and decrease minor delinquency.
(Ord. of 8-5-97, § 1)
Sec. 3-17-2. - Definitions.
For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply:
(a)
Emergency errand: A mission that results from an unforeseen combination of circumstances that calls for immediate action. The term includes, but is not limited to, a fire, a natural disaster, or automobile accident, or any situation requiring immediate action to prevent serious bodily injury or loss of life.
(b)
Minor: Any unemancipated person under the age of 18.
(c)
Public place: Any place to which the public has access and includes, but is not limited to, streets, highways, alleys or rights-of-way, to include sidewalks, parks, playgrounds, malls, or other places or buildings open to the public; any cemeteries, school yards, bodies of water or watercourses; any privately or publicly owned places of amusement, entertainment or public accommodation including parking lots, and any vacant lot or land.
(d)
School day: Any day of the week in which school is in session and students are normally expected to attend. This term does not include any religious holidays for which a student's professed religion prohibits such student from school attendance.
(Ord. of 8-5-97, § 1)
Sec. 3-17-3. - Minors prohibited from being upon streets and other public places at certain daytime hours; exceptions.
It shall be unlawful for any minor under the age of 18 years to loiter, wander, stroll, or play in or upon any public place unsupervised by a parent, guardian or other adult 21 years of age or older having the lawful care and custody of the minor and having the lawful authority to be at such places between the hours of 8:30 a.m. and 2:30 p.m. on any school day; provided, however, that the provision of this section shall not apply in the following incidents:
(a)
When the minor is upon an emergency errand directed by his/her parent, guardian, or other adult person 21 years of age or older having the lawful care and custody of the minor;
(b)
When the minor is traveling directly from home to lawful employment or returning directly home from lawful employment that makes it necessary to be in above referenced places during the proscribed period of time;
(c)
When the minor is engaged in interstate and intrastate vehicular travel through Athens-Clarke County with parental consent;
(d)
When the minor is enrolled in a valid home study program as authorized by O.C.G.A. § 20-2-690, and has written consent from a parent or legal guardian to be outside the home;
(e)
When the minor has graduated from high school;
(f)
When the minor is married or has been married pursuant to state law;
(g)
When the minor has written proof from school authorities that he/she is excused from school attendance at that particular time; or
(h)
When the minor is participating in an approved school or study activity which requires the minor to be off school property.
(Ord. of 8-5-97, § 1)
Sec. 3-17-4. - Parental responsibility.
It shall be unlawful for the parent or legal guardian of a minor under the age of 18 years to permit, or by insufficient control, to allow a minor to violate section 3-17-3 above. A person charged with violation of this section for the first time shall be given a warning citation. Upon subsequent violation, the person shall be charged with such violation, and if found guilty, such person shall be subject to punishment as provided in section 1-1-5 of the Code of Athens-Clarke County, Georgia.
(Ord. of 8-5-97, § 1)
Sec. 3-17-5. - Each violation deemed separate offense; affirmative defense for violation of section 3-17-3.
Each violation of this section [chapter] shall constitute a separate offense. It shall be an affirmative defense if the parent or legal guardian has initiated the jurisdiction of the juvenile court against the minor under age 17, prior to the time that the minor was found in violation of section 3-17-3 above.
(Ord. of 8-5-97, § 1)
Sec. 3-17-6. - Jurisdiction of juvenile and municipal courts.
Any minor under the age of 17 who violates section 3-17-3 above is subject to the jurisdiction of the juvenile court. Any minor who has attained the age of 17 and violates section 3-17-3 above is subject to the jurisdiction of the municipal court.
(Ord. of 8-5-97, § 1)
Sec. 3-17-7. - Disposition of violating minors.
A police officer shall transport any minor found in violation of section 3-17-3 above to a designated school district facility. A minor transported to the school district facility will be released to the custody of the school officials or to the custody of his/her parent or legal guardian.
(Ord. of 8-5-97, § 1)
Sec. 3-17-8. - Responsibility of parent or guardian for supervision of minors expelled or suspended from school.
If a minor is suspended or expelled from school, that minor's parent or legal guardian, for the duration of the suspension or expulsion, shall:
(a)
Personally supervise the minor or arrange for a responsible adult 21 years of age or older to supervise the minor at the times that the minor would have been required to be in attendance at school had he/she not been expelled or suspended; and
(b)
Prohibit the minor from being in any public place at the times the minor would have been required to be in attendance at school had he/she not been suspended or expelled unless:
(1)
The minor is accompanied by his/her parent or legal guardian or a responsible adult, 21 years of age or older, selected by the parent or legal guardian to supervise the minor; or
(2)
The minor is actually and lawfully employed or traveling directly to or from the job site.
(Ord. of 8-5-97, § 1)
Sec. 3-17-9. - Punishment for violation of section 3-17-8.
Upon conviction of a violation of section 3-17-8, a person shall be punishable in accordance with section 1-1-5 of the Code of Athens-Clarke County. Each violation of this section shall constitute a separate offense.
(Ord. of 8-5-97, § 1)
Sec. 3-17-10. - Affirmative defense to violation of section 3-17-8.
It shall be an affirmative defense if the parent or legal guardian has initiated the jurisdiction of the juvenile court against the minor under the age of 17, prior to the time that he/she violated section 3-17-8 above.
(Ord. of 8-5-97, § 1)
Sec. 3-17-11. - Severability.
If any provision, including any exception, section, subsection, part, sentence, phrase, term, or portion of this chapter is held invalid or unconstitutional by any court of competent jurisdiction, such portion shall be deemed a separate, distinct and independent provision, and such holding shall not affect the validity of the remaining portions hereof.
(Ord. of 8-5-97, § 1)
Sec. 3-17-12. - Reserved.
Editor's note— Section 2 of an ordinance enacted Aug. 3, 1999, repealed § 3-17-12, which pertained to the sunset and review by commission provisions enacted by Ord. of Aug. 5, 1997.
