CHAPTER 1-16. - COMMISSION ON PEOPLE WITH DISABILITIES
Sec. 1-16-1. General provisions.

Sec. 1-16-1. - General provisions.
(a)
Creation. There is hereby created a body to be known as the Athens-Clarke County Commission on People with Disabilities.
(b)
Purpose. The purpose of the commission on people with disabilities shall be to increase acceptance and full participation of persons with disabilities in the life of this community. This includes promoting employability, housing, state and local government services, public accommodations, transportation and the telephone system.
(c)
Appointment; terms; areas of representation; residency requirement. Such commission shall consist of 30 members who shall be appointed for three years for staggered terms of office.
(1)
Eleven members shall be selected initially by the mayor and commission of Athens-Clarke County.
(2)
Eleven members shall be selected initially by the commission on people with disabilities to represent the community.
(3)
Eight members will be nominated by the commission on people with disabilities so as to represent the following areas: business organization, day/employment site, Athens-Clarke County Human and Economic Development Department, State Division of Rehabilitation Services, University of Georgia Disabilities Services, Social Security Institute, civic organizations, media/public relations representative, Georgia Department Of Labor, University Affiliated Program for Persons with Disabilities, vocational training institute, and public school special educational department, parents of disabled children.
Whenever a vacancy exists, the appropriate selecting body described in paragraph (c) above shall make nominations to the mayor and commission for confirmation or rejection. Members shall reside or be employed in Athens-Clarke County.
(d)
ADA coordinator to be ex-officio member. The Americans with Disabilities Act (ADA) Coordinator for Unified Government of Athens-Clarke County shall be an ex-officio member of the commission on people with disabilities.
(e)
General authority. The commission on people with disabilities shall be advisory in nature and authorized to adopt bylaws; to initiate, plan and direct community-wide efforts to achieve such commission's goals; to solicit and accept donations and appropriations of money, service, products, property and facilities for use by such commission; and to make recommendations to the mayor and commission of Athens-Clarke County as well as the private sector regarding measures that are deemed necessary to accomplish its objectives.
(f)
Areas of specific authority. The commission on people with disabilities shall be authorized to:
(1)
Solicit private donations and support for activities and programs for persons with disabilities.
(2)
Seek federal, state and private foundation funds; to conduct educational programs; and to increase the contributions of people with disabilities.
(3)
Recommend to the mayor and commission financial and/or other incentives to enhance or support the hiring of persons with disabilities in the private sector.
(4)
Attend and take advantage of training available through state, federal, and private agencies to further the education and awareness of members of the commission on people with disabilities.
(5)
Make an annual report to the mayor and commission and such other reports as may be requested.
(Ord. of 8-4-92, § 1; Ord. of 7-2-96, § 1; Ord. of 7-6-99, § 1)
