CHAPTER 1-5. - ADMINISTRATIVE HEARING OFFICER
Sec. 1-5-1. Administrative hearing officer.

Sec. 1-5-1. - Administrative hearing officer.
There is hereby created the position of administrative hearing officer whose term and duties shall be as set out below:
(1)
The administrative hearing officer shall be nominated by the mayor and confirmed or rejected by the commission. The initial appointment shall run until the first Tuesday in January 1993. Thereafter, the term of office of the administrative hearing officer shall run concurrently with the term of office of the municipal court judge as prescribed in section 1-4-17 of this Code. The salary of the hearing officer shall be as set by the mayor. The administrative hearing officer shall be an attorney who is a member in good standing of the State Bar of Georgia Association.
(2)
The duties of the administrative hearing officer shall be the hearing of all issues under the ordinances of Athens-Clarke County which would determine the granting, denial, probating, suspending or revoking of any license or permit granted under Athens-Clarke County ordinances.
(3)
The jurisdiction of the hearing officer over the licenses or permits shall be in addition to and concurrent with that of the municipal court of Athens-Clarke County, except that the hearing officer is specifically prohibited from awarding any punishment involving imprisonment. The administrative hearing officer may award civil fines where specifically provided for in other sections of this Code.
(4)
Jurisdiction of and procedures for administrative hearing officer:
a.
The administrative hearing officer shall have jurisdiction over:
1.
Any action against any licensee or permittee holding a license or permit issued by any department of Athens-Clarke County. Said action shall be brought by the Athens-Clarke County Attorney, the manager, police chief, or any department head with administrative responsibility for such permit or license; and
2.
Any claim by any citizen aggrieved by an administrative decision made by any Athens-Clarke County department authorized to make such decisions.
b.
Any hearing before the administrative hearing officer shall be on a date and time certain which shall be reflected on the summons issued by the attorney or any other person specifically authorized by this Code or other law to issue such summons to appear in municipal court, or by the clerk of the municipal court on behalf of any aggrieved citizen.
c.
The notice of administrative hearing shall contain a place, date and time certain and shall be served on responding party more than five days before any scheduled hearing. The notice of administrative hearing shall be served as follows:
1.
By certified mail return/receipt requested; or
2.
By leaving a copy thereof at the licensed business location with an employee working therein (and in the case of an alcohol licensee, said notice shall also be sent by regular mail to the agent set out on the license or listed on the license application); or
3.
By personal service on the responding party or on an agent authorized by law or by appointment to receive service of process.
All service shall be by an authorized person in the Athens-Clarke County Marshal's office or by any sworn Athens-Clarke County police officer or any Athens-Clarke County Code Enforcement officer.
d.
The administrative hearing officer shall have the authority to hear evidence and subpoena witnesses on behalf of Athens-Clarke County or the aggrieved citizen and shall generally conduct the hearings in accordance with the requirements of due process as required by the United States Constitution and the Constitution of the State of Georgia. The administrative hearing officer shall entertain any and all evidence relevant to the matter without regard to evidentiary rules regarding hearsay.
e.
The standard of review for a citizen aggrieved by an administrative decision is arbitrary and capricious.
f.
The standard for an action against a licensee or permittee is preponderance of the evidence.
g.
The administrative hearing officer may promulgate any rules of procedure not in conflict with this ordinance or other law.
(5)
Whenever, from any cause, the administrative hearing officer is unable to be in attendance, or it should appear that he or she is disqualified in any case, it shall be the duty of the administrative hearing officer to appoint a hearing officer pro hac vice to preside over the hearing in place and stead of the administrative hearing officer, and all actions of the appointee shall be binding as if performed by the administrative hearing officer.
(6)
In the event of any vacancy in the office of administrative hearing officer for any cause, whether by death, resignation, sickness, vacancy or removal, one or more persons to fill the vacancy shall be nominated by the mayor and confirmed or rejected by the commission. The person or persons appointed to fill the vacancy shall serve for a term as set by resolution of the mayor and commission at the time of appointment and shall be a member in good standing of the State Bar of Georgia. The compensation of such administrative hearing officer shall be set by the mayor and commission.
(Ord. of 1-7-92, § 1; Ord. of 7-2-96, § 1; Ord. of 7-1-97, §§ 1, 2; Ord. of 7-6-99, § 1; Ord. of 3-5-2002, § 1; Ord. of 4-1-2003, § 1; Ord. of 3-29-2005, § 2; Ord. of 6-30-2005, § 1; Ord. of 4-4-2006, §§ 2, 3; Ord. of 1-17-2017(2), § 1 )
