CHAPTER 1-4. - MUNICIPAL COURT[3]
Secs. 1-4-1—1-4-15. Reserved.
Sec. 1-4-16. Jurisdiction; powers.
Sec. 1-4-17. Judge generally.
Sec. 1-4-18. Standby associate judge.
Sec. 1-4-19. Prosecution of cases.
Sec. 1-4-20. Witness; subpoena.
Sec. 1-4-21. Appellate review.
Sec. 1-4-22. Administrative fee.

Footnotes:
--- (3) ---
Charter reference— Judiciary provisions generally, Art. V; municipal court of the City of Athens, continuation of operations in the court of unified government, § 5-106.
Cross reference— Duty of marshals to issue warnings and citations for court appearances and to appear and testify in court, § 1-12-1(d).

Secs. 1-4-1—1-4-15. - Reserved.
Sec. 1-4-16. - Jurisdiction; powers.
(a)
There is hereby established for and in Athens-Clarke County a court to be known as the Municipal Court of Athens-Clarke County, Georgia. Except as provided in paragraph (b) below, all warrants, summons, citations, subpoenas or other process issued requiring appearance or attendance in such municipal court shall be issued by the clerk of the court, directed to any sworn policeman of Athens-Clarke County Police Department, and bear teste in the name of the municipal court judge. All sworn police officers of Athens-Clarke County Police Department or Deputy Sheriff's of the Clarke County Sheriff's Office shall be ex officio constables of the court.
(b)
Citations or summons, including but not limited to summons on forms developed by the State Department of Public Safety under O.C.G.A. § 40-13-1, requiring appearance or attendance in municipal court may be issued by any Athens-Clarke County police officer, marshal or deputy marshal, code enforcement officer, animal control officer, fire marshal or deputy fire marshal, chief building official or building inspector, employee of the Department of Transportation and Public Works, the Athens-Clarke County Attorney or Assistant Attorney, the Solicitor General or Assistant Solicitor or by any other person specifically authorized to issue such citations or summons by this code or other law.
(c)
The Athens-Clarke County Attorney or Assistant Attorneys and the Solicitor General or Assistant Solicitors are authorized at their election to issue and file accusations as charging instruments in municipal court.
(d)
The judge of municipal court shall have jurisdiction of first instance over all Athens-Clarke County ordinances, such jurisdiction being otherwise concurrent with the magistrate's court of Athens-Clarke County. The municipal court shall have jurisdiction over such traffic offenses as authorized by O.C.G.A. §§ 40-6-372—40-6-376 and such other state offenses as authorized presently, or in the future, by state law.
(e)
Sessions of the court shall be on a regular basis as set by the judge.
(f)
The municipal court shall be governed by such rules as established by the judge in accordance with Georgia law and a sound construction of the laws and ordinances of Athens-Clarke County.
(g)
The municipal court shall have authority to provide for bails and recognizance and for surety therefor to ensure the presence of those charged with violations before the court, and the court shall have authority to provide for forfeitures of the same.
(Ord. of 1-7-92, § 1; Ord. of 3-7-2000, § 1; Ord. of 4-4-2006, § 1)
Sec. 1-4-17. - Judge generally.
(a)
In presiding over the municipal court, the judge shall have full power and authority, as provided by state law, including, but not limited to, the full power and authority to compel the attendance of parties and witnesses in court.
(b)
The judge shall have the power to enforce all the court's orders and judgments, to preserve order and to punish for contempt to the fullest extent authorized by law.
(c)
Except as provided herein, the judge shall be nominated by the Mayor and confirmed or rejected by the Commission on or before the first voting meeting in June of the year the term expires with the appointment to be effective July 1 of said year. Beginning on July 1, 2009, all terms shall be for two years, except that the term of the judge due to expire on June 30, 2017, shall expire on January 31, 2017 at midnight. The next succeeding term shall begin on February 1, 2017 and shall extend through June 30, 2019. The judge for the term beginning February 1, 2017 shall be nominated by the Mayor and confirmed or rejected by the Commission at a special called meeting of the Mayor and Commission on January 17, 2017. Thereafter, all terms shall be for two years, such two-year terms resuming with the term beginning on July 1, 2019. The salary of the judge shall be as set by the Mayor and Commission.
(d)
The judge shall be a member in good standing of the State Bar of Georgia.
(e)
The judge shall be full time and is not permitted to maintain a private practice.
(f)
In the event of any vacancy in the office of a municipal court judge for any cause, whether by death, resignation, sickness, vacancy or removal, one or more judges to fill the vacancy shall be nominated by the Mayor and confirmed or rejected by the Commission. A judge or judges appointed to fill the vacancy shall serve for a term as set by resolution of the Mayor and Commission at the time of appointment, shall be a member in good standing of the State Bar of Georgia, may be either full-time or part-time, and shall be permitted to maintain a private practice. The compensation of such judge or judges shall be set by the Mayor and Commission. The terms "judge of municipal court" or "municipal court judge" as used throughout this chapter and related law shall include any person authorized by this paragraph to hear cases in the municipal court.
(Ord. of 1-7-92, § 1; Ord. of 7-2-96, § 1; Ord. of 7-2-96, § 1; Ord. of 7-6-99, § 1; Ord. of 10-5-2004, § 1; Ord. of 3-29-2005, § 1; Ord. of 5-6-2008; § 1; Ord. of 1-17-2017(1), § 1 )
Sec. 1-4-18. - Standby associate judge.
Whenever, from any cause, the judge of municipal court cannot be in attendance to hold municipal court, or if it should appear that he or she is disqualified in any case, then the judge shall appoint a judge pro hac vice to preside in the court in place and stead of the municipal court judge, and all actions of the appointee shall be binding as if performed by the municipal judge. A judge pro hac vice shall be a member in good standing of the State Bar of Georgia.
(Ord. of 1-7-92, § 1)
Sec. 1-4-19. - Prosecution of cases.
The solicitor of state court shall be the solicitor of municipal court. The Athens-Clarke County Attorney shall be entitled to appear in the court on behalf of Athens-Clarke County to prosecute violations of local ordinances and the district attorney shall be entitled to appear in such court on behalf of the state on any matter involving felonies.
(Ord. of 1-7-92, § 1; Ord. of 2-4-92, § 1)
Sec. 1-4-20. - Witness; subpoena.
Whenever the attendance of any witness may be required before the court, the clerk of court shall issue a subpoena, directed to the witness, stating the time and place of trial and the parties to the case, which subpoena shall be served by any Athens-Clarke County policeman, or as otherwise permitted by law.
(Ord. of 1-7-92, § 1)
Sec. 1-4-21. - Appellate review.
The orders, verdicts, judgements and sentences of the court shall be subject to appellate review in accordance with state law.
(Ord. of 1-7-92, § 1)
Sec. 1-4-22. - Administrative fee.
The Clerk of the Municipal Court of Athens-Clarke County shall be entitled to charge and collect an administrative fee to be set by the court in an amount not to exceed $5.00 as a surcharge to each fine imposed.
(Ord. of 8-4-2009, § 1)
