CHAPTER 9-6. - INSTITUTIONAL (IN) DISTRICT
Sec. 9-6-1. Purpose.
Sec. 9-6-2. Permitted uses.
Sec. 9-6-3. General regulations.
Sec. 9-6-4. Institutional uses—Parking.
Sec. 9-6-5. Developments of community significance.
Sec. 9-6-6. Design standards.
Sec. 9-6-7. Institutional (IN) development approval procedure.

Sec. 9-6-1. - Purpose.
The Institutional (IN) District is intended to recognize and permit the creation of defined areas for the unified and orderly development of cultural, educational, medical and quasi-public institutions in order to support and enhance their benefit to the community. The district allows flexibility in planning and development and provides a process for evaluating and accommodating incremental growth and change, thereby assuring compatibility with adjacent, noninstitutional districts.
(Ord. of 6-5-2001, § 5)
Sec. 9-6-2. - Permitted uses.
The following uses and their accessory uses are permitted as provided for in the use table below:
EXPAND
Zoning Districts IN
Institutional
Residential Categories
Agriculture N
Single Family Dwellings L(1)
Accessory Dwelling Units N
Dwellings Above Businesses N
Duplexes N
Personal care homes, individual L(1)
Personal care homes, family L(1)
Personal care homes, group P
Personal care homes, congregate P
Multi-Family Dwellings L(1)
Class "A" Manufactured Homes N
Class "B" Manufactured Homes N
Boarding House, Rooming House S, L(1)
Dormitory S, L(1)
Halfway House S, L(1)
Community Garden P
Commercial Categories
Home Occupation N
Sales of products grown on site N
Hostels N
Hotels L(1)
Motels L(1)
Bed and Breakfast L(1)
Retail Sales And Service L(1)
Convenience Store L(1)
Theaters (less than 1,000 seats) L(1)
Restaurant or Bar L(1)
Drive-Through Facility L(1)
Professional Services and Office L(1)
Quick Vehicle Servicing N
Vehicle Repair L(1)
Auto and RV Sales N
Laundry Facilities L(1)
Equestrian Facilities L(1)
Commercial Outdoor Recreation N
Indoor Recreation L(1)
Major Event Entertainment L(1)
Commercial Parking Structures or Lots L(1)
Administrative or Research Facilities L(1)
Broadcasting or production Studios N
Temporary Uses P
Temporary Special Event P, L(2)
Industrial Categories
Printing/Publishing N
Bakeries N
Bottling Plants N
Manufacture of Non-Odiferous Foods N
Feedlots or Slaughterhouses N
Food Processing N
Light Manufacturing N
Heavy Manufacturing N
Wholesale Sales N
Wholesale Nurseries N
Distribution Center N
Outdoor Storage L(1)
Wholesale Storage And Distribution N
Self-Service Storage N
Construction Materials Sales N
Junk Yards and Auto Wrecking N
Kennels S
Veterinary Clinics L(1)
Landfills, Commercial Incinerators, Transfer Stations L(1)
Transfer Stations L(1)
Sanitary Landfills, Commercial Incinerators L(1)
Asphalt Plants N
Mines, mining, surface mining, quarries, gravel pits, sand pits N
Institutional
Categories
Basic Utilities P
Community Service P
Parks And Open Areas P
Churches P
Business/Trade Schools P
Day Care, Kindergarten, Elementary, Middle, and High School P
Colleges P
Nursing Homes P
Hospital P
Medical Centers P
Cemeteries P
Mortuaries S
Fraternity or Sorority S, L(1)
Semi-Public Halls, Clubs or Lodges S, L(1)
Drug Rehabilitation Center or Other Facility for Treatment of Drug Dependency P, L(1)
  Legend:
P = Permitted outright
S = Subject to approval under the special use procedures section
N = Prohibited use
L(1) = Permitted support uses or structures owned or operated by, leased by or to, or otherwise controlled by, the institutional user, which directly provide service to the institution and its patrons, and when such support use or structure is physically integrated into the physical plan of this institution. This provision shall include, but not be limited to leasing of office space by a hospital or health care facility to independent physicians or other health care providers. Residential uses must be owned or operated by the institutional user with a primary use other than residential. Refer to section 9-15-19 for regulations governing personal care homes. Refer to section 9-15-21 for more information concerning halfway houses.
L(2) = Temporary special events, as defined in section 9-2-1, are subject to, but not limited to, the following conditions:
1.
The boundary of the temporary special event, as described on the approved site plan, shall not be located within 300 feet of any RS (Single-Family Residential) zone or RM (Mixed Density Residential) zone.
2.
A temporary special event shall have a duration of not more than 72 consecutive hours, including setup and breakdown of the event.
3.
No more than two temporary special events may occur for any one property in each calendar year; a temporary special event shall not occur more frequently than once in a three-month period on the subject property.
4.
Sufficient improved or unimproved off-street parking, to be approved by the Planning Director, with access to be approved by the Department of Transportation and Public Works, shall be provided.
5.
All temporary special events shall apply for and obtain, if required, an Athens-Clarke County Special Events Permit per Chapter 6-5 and shall comply with all applicable local, state, and federal regulations.
(Ord. of 6-5-2001, § 5; Ord. of 8-1-2006, § 3; Ord. of 8-1-2006, § 3; Ord. of 4-3-2007, § 2; Ord. of 4-5-2011, § 3; Ord. of 12-4-2012, §§ 4, 5; Ord. of 2-5-2013, § 3; Ord. of 2-4-2014, § 3)
Sec. 9-6-3. - General regulations.
General regulations for all Institutional (IN) zones are contained in the table below:
EXPAND
Table 9-6-3 IN
Institutional
Maximum residential density (bedrooms per gross acre) 16
Minimum lot area 3 acres
Minimum lot width 3 150 ft.
Minimum lot depth 250 ft.
Minimum front yard 2 10 ft.
Minimum side yard 6 feet
Minimum side yard, adjacent to street 6 feet
Minimum yard when abutting residential zone 10 feet, plus one foot for each foot of building height above 30 feet.
Minimum residential unit size 450 sq. ft.
Maximum FAR 2.5
Maximum lot coverage, except agricultural buildings 80%
Minimum landscaped area 20%
Maximum building height 65 feet 1
  1 If an existing institutional use has building(s) that are greater in height than 65 feet, the maximum building height of new construction permitted for the existing institutional use shall be equal to or less than the height of the existing building.
2 Unless otherwise specified in section 9-15-9.
3 Except for lots entirely fronting turnaround areas of cul-de-sacs, the lot width shall be measured beginning at the front lot line and maintained for the entire minimum lot depth. For lots entirely fronting turnaround areas of cul-de-sacs, the lot width shall be measured beginning at the minimum required front setback line and maintained for the remaining portion of the minimum lot depth.
(Ord. of 6-5-2001, § 5; Ord. of 11-6-2001, § 2; Ord. of 9-3-2002, § 2; Ord. of 12-7-2010, § 3)
Sec. 9-6-4. - Institutional uses—Parking.
In all areas within the IN district, all uses are required to provide off-street parking or loading areas in accordance with the parking standards established in chapter 9-30 of this title. Residential uses associated with the institutional use are required to comply with the parking standards established in section 9-30-2. Leasing of parking facilities for uses other than residential uses in an amount sufficient to meet the requirements of this title is permitted as long as the parking facilities are no more than 1,500 feet from the institutional use.
(Ord. of 6-5-2001, § 5)
Sec. 9-6-5. - Developments of community significance.
The purpose of reviewing developments of community significance is to provide for detailed review of institutional (IN) uses which have the potential for significant impact to the environment, to the value and use of the adjacent properties, public water and sewer services, roadway capacity and traffic patterns, the economy of Athens-Clarke County, or the public health, safety, and general welfare of Athens-Clarke County residents. This review is designed to ensure that future land uses are suitable to the demands and needs of the residents of Athens-Clarke County.
A.
Application of section. The provisions of this section shall apply to uses in the Institutional (IN) zone that result in developments totaling 200,000 square feet or more; or uses that result in a single building of 100,000 square feet or more of gross area, whether by new construction or by expansion of existing uses; or land disturbance of five acres or more; and are determined to exceed additional thresholds defined in section 9-10-5 C.
B.
Submittal requirements. The following information shall be submitted in addition to the other submittal information required in section 9-25-4 and other applicable provisions of this title:
1.
A detailed description of the proposed project and its design features;
2.
Potential impact on existing and projected traffic conditions;
3.
Impact on utilities and public services, including water, sewage, storm drains, solid waste disposal, police and fire protection, emergency services, schools, and other public services;
4.
Impact on the physical and ecological characteristics of the site and surrounding land, including wetlands, floodplain, vegetation, wildlife habitat, and other environmental conditions;
5.
Impact on the community, including but not limited to, scenic, historic, or archaeological conditions, with regard to scale, placement, lighting, landscaping, signage, parking, use of open space and design of buildings and structures.
C.
Review thresholds for developments of community significance. Developments of community significance within this section will be reviewed based on the following thresholds.
1.
Level I uses are those that do not exceed the following criteria or do not require publicly funded infrastructure improvements; these are reviewed using the staff permit procedure.
a.
Water. If the following threshold is exceeded, the use shall be reviewed as a Level II:
(1)
Peak demand total of 100 GPM (gallons per minute); or
(2)
100,000 GPD (gallons per day);
(The above figures are not to be used for fire protection flow rates.)
b.
Wastewater. If any of the following thresholds are exceeded, the use shall be reviewed as a Level II:
(1)
Per requirements of the unified government of Athens-Clarke County Sewer Use Ordinance; or
(2)
Demand exceeding 100,000 GPD (gallons per day).
c.
Traffic. If the following are exceeded, the proposed use, within this category, must be reviewed as Level II:
(1)
Site allocation, as denoted on the traffic volume inventory located in the Athens-Clarke County Planning Department. All allocations are based on roadway capacity at level of service "D" for the road or street; or, lacking any site specific information, the following standards will be used:
(2)
750 peak hour trip ends; or
(3)
6,000 average weekday trip ends; or
(4)
Truck traffic comprising more than two percent of the site generated average weekday trip ends. Traffic generation rates will be based on the Institute of Traffic Engineers Trip Generation Manual (current edition).
d.
Stormwater. If stormwater runoff exceeds thresholds established by Athens Clarke County stormwater management policies, the use shall be reviewed as Level II.
2.
Level II. All uses that exceed one of the locally specified criteria (water, wastewater, traffic, and stormwater) or that require locally funded infrastructure improvements. Level II uses shall be reviewed as a Type II procedure based on one of the following:
a.
Review by staff to determine if proposed use is within capacity ranges and does not necessitate additional governmental expenditure or use reserve capacity; or
b.
Review by staff resulting in a determination that the proposed use does exceed capacities or use reserves and is forwarded to government officials for decision and an agreed upon financing plan between the government and the petitioner.
(Ord. of 6-5-2001, § 5; Ord. of 2-7-2006, § 2)
Sec. 9-6-6. - Design standards.
Developments in an Institutional (IN) district shall comply with the applicable commercial design standards outlined in chapter 9-25. Waivers from the commercial design standards outlined in chapter 9-25 may be requested by the petitioner as part of the master development plan process. These waivers may be granted by the mayor and commission as part of the approval of the master development plan.
(Ord. of 6-5-2001, § 5)
Sec. 9-6-7. - Institutional (IN) development approval procedure.
A.
The application for the Institutional (IN) development shall be executed by all property owners, including holders of deeds to secure debt, as recorded in the official records of the superior court of Athens-Clarke County, or their authorized agents.
B.
Any request pertaining to the establishment of an IN zoning district shall be considered an amendment to the zoning ordinance and shall be administered and processed as a Type I or Type II procedure as defined in chapter 9-4 of the zoning ordinance, depending upon the agreement of the proposed zoning classification with the future development map.
C.
Concept plan and application.
1.
A petition for IN zoning must be accompanied by a concept plan and preliminary written report of the project and will only be accepted after a pre-application conference. It is intended that this step in the process will provide an opportunity for the owner and planning commission to arrive at a conceptual agreement on the project prior to the preparation of more detailed plans. Any actions taken by the planning commission will constitute a tentative recommendation to the application and will not be binding.
2.
The planning director may waive this step (concept plan) of the process for amendments to previously approved developments in the IN zone that are clearly consistent with adopted community plans and whose adverse impacts are clearly insignificant.
D.
Master development plan. Following the planning commission's review of the concept plan, the owner shall submit a master development plan for consideration as a Type II planning action. If approved by the governing body, the requirements of the master development plan shall be in addition to and amend the requirements associated with the Institutional (IN) district for the properties included within the master development plan. A master development plan shall contain all information required for a site review (chapter 9-25) and a preliminary plat for subdivisions (chapter 9-26).
E.
After review and recommendation by the planning commission, the petitioner must submit the plan to the planning department by noon Monday of the week preceding the week during which the mayor and commission will meet (the Thursday after the third Tuesday of the month). The composition and number of plan copies to be submitted for consideration of the application by the mayor and commission shall be determined by the planning department.
F.
Additionally after review and recommendation by the planning commission, any adjustment or amendment to preliminary or master development plans submitted by the petitioner, beyond those recommended by the planning commission or the governing body, shall be considered a new application and cause the original rezoning request to be returned to the planning commission for reconsideration. The planning commission, if necessary, may take up to 60 days to review the new application. All fees normally associated with a rezoning request shall also be applicable.
G.
If the planning commission recommends changes to the master development plan, and petitioner decides to include such changes to his or her request, then said petitioner must make appropriate changes to the binding site plan, submit said plan to the planning department by noon Monday of the week preceding the week during which the mayor and commission will meet (the Thursday after the third Tuesday of the month), and will include on the plan a statement signed by the preparer outlining the changes and stating that no other changes have been made except those requested.
H.
Phase site plan.
1.
Following the approval of the master development plan, the owner shall submit a detailed site plan of each project phase to the planning director for approval prior to the issuance of any permits. The planning director may refer, at his/her discretion, and shall refer, upon the request of the owner, approval of the site plan to the full planning commission. If the project will not be phased over time, the owner may submit the detailed site plan for consideration by the planning director with the master development plan, subject to the governing body ultimately approving the master development plan. If the project is to be phased, the owner may submit the site plan for the first phase for similar consideration by the planning director with the master development plan.
2.
The detailed site plan shall be drawn to scale, fully dimensioned, and shall include the same information as required for a final plat of the subdivision regulations (chapter 9-26) and a site review (chapter 9-25).
3.
The planning director shall approve, and may only approve, the phase site plan if it conforms to the master development plan. Any deviation from the master plan shall be grounds for denial of the site plan and shall necessitate the petitioning for approval of an amendment of the master development plan before the site plan can be approved. Approval will be through a staff permit procedure.
4.
The approval of the site plan and related information for each phase shall allow the owner to proceed with the installation of improvements and submit (when appropriate) a final subdivision plat for approval, all in accordance with the procedures set forth in chapter 9-26.
I.
Compliance. In any event where it is determined by the Athens-Clarke County Mayor and Commission, after receipt of a recommendation from the planning commission, that portions of the recommended Institutional (IN) master development plan are not in accordance with this section, the mayor and commission may place parts or all of the property in its prior zoning classification or any other appropriate classification.
J.
Application of regulations:
1.
Institutional (IN) developments shall normally be located on a street having a minimum functional classification of "minor collector."
2.
If any open space is provided for in the master development plan, then adequate guarantee shall be provided for the permanent retention of said "open space." The guarantee shall be in the form of private reservation for the use of project residents through covenants, deed restrictions, master development plans, or similar documents, or through dedication as common open space, or as land held in a common undivided interest dedicated to a recognized land trust. The care and maintenance of such private open space areas shall be similarly provided for.
3.
To ensure adequate and proper construction of the following facilities listed below in a. through e., the mayor and commission may require that the owner submit a performance bond or other financial guarantee. Such guarantee, if required, shall be in an amount set by the mayor and commission and sufficient to allow Athens-Clarke County to construct the stipulated facilities. In addition, the owner shall be required to grant right-of-entry to Athens-Clarke County to construct such improvements where a bond is required. The bonding requirements shall be the same as required of a subdivision (section 9-26-5).
a.
Recreation lands and appurtenances;
b.
Streets and sidewalks;
c.
Drainage facilities;
d.
Grading improvements;
e.
Sewer, water, and other utilities.
K.
The violation of any provision of the approved master development plan shall constitute a violation of this chapter.
L.
The planning director shall not change any condition or restriction that has been imposed by the planning commission or the mayor and commission nor grant any changes to the lot regulations that would be less restrictive than those set by the underlying district regulations. Variance and waiver requests shall be in writing to the planning director. The planning director may request any additional information or documents deemed necessary to make a determination on the requested action.
(Ord. of 2-7-2006, § 2; Ord. of 7-1-2008, § 9)
