ARTICLE VIII. - ZONING DISTRICT ESTABLISHMENT AND INTERPRETATION

Sec. 801. - Establishment of zoning districts.
For the purpose of these regulations, all portions of Pierce County, Georgia, are hereby divided into the following zoning districts:
EXPAND
AF Agriculture/Forestry
SF Single-Family Residential
MHP Mobile Home Park
MF Multi-Family Residential
PUD Planned Unit Development
NC Neighborhood Commercial
C Commercial
LI Light Industrial
I Industrial
PRC Parks/Recreation/Conservation
PI Public/Institutional
TCU Transportation/Communication/Utilities
FH Flood Hazard
V Vacant/Undeveloped
  (Ord. of 2016, ยง 801)
Sec. 802. - Interpretation of zoning district boundaries.
Where uncertainty exists with respect to the boundaries of any of the zoning districts as shown on the Official Zoning Map, the following shall apply:
1.
Where district boundaries are indicated as approximately following street or highway center lines, or street or highway right-of-way lines, said boundaries shall be construed as following such lines.
2.
Where district boundaries are indicated as approximately following lot lines, said boundaries shall be construed as following such lines.
3.
Where district boundaries are indicated as being approximately parallel to the center lines or right-of-way lines of streets, or the center lines or right-of-way lines of highways, such district boundaries shall be construed as being parallel thereto at the scaled distance indicated on the Official Zoning Map.
4.
Boundaries indicated as following railroad lines shall be construed to be midway between the main tracks.
5.
Boundaries indicated as following swamp area lines shall be construed to follow the low water mark of said swamp lines, and in the event of change, the boundary line shall be construed as moving with the actual low water line; boundaries indicated as approximately following the centerline of fresh water rivers, creeks, canals, lakes, inlets or other bodies of water shall be construed to follow such centerlines.
6.
Where physical or cultural features existing on the ground are at variance with those shown on the Official Zoning Map, the community development director shall interpret the district boundaries.
7.
Where a district boundary line divides a lot which was a single ownership at the time of passage of this Code, the planning commission may permit the extension of the regulations for either portion of the lot not to exceed 75 feet beyond the district line into the remaining portion of the lot.
8.
It is the policy of the planning commission that all Fresh Water swamp areas fall within the Parks/Recreation/Conservation District. Where a boundary is indicated as following such Fresh Water swamp area the boundary line shall be construed as following the actual limits of said swamp area.
9.
If the county health department requires a larger lot or parcel area than is ordinarily required by the regulations of this Code, the larger lot/parcel area requirement of the health department shall be the minimum lot size.
(Ord. of 2016, ยง 802)
Sec. 803. - Intent of zoning districts.
The regulations set by this Code within each district shall be minimum regulations and shall apply uniformly, and to each class or kind of structure or land, except when modifications are provided.
1.
The Agriculture/Forestry (AF) or Multi-Family (MF) zoning districts located in the City of Blackshear and the City of Patterson shall not allow manufactured homes to be placed within these jurisdictions.
Exception: Modular Office Buildings.
a.
Churches and Synagogues for education purposes only and not for worship.
Approval for these facilities will have to meet all Zoning District regulations and requirements for the land/parcel that said buildings are to be placed within affected municipality.
(Ord. of 2016, ยง 803)
