[ARTICLE XV. - RV PARK]

Sec. 1501. - RV park.
1.
Intent:
The intent of this district is to provide a sound and healthy residential area sufficient to meet the unique needs of tourists living in recreational vehicles (RV's), to protect RV parks from encroachment by incompatible uses, and to encourage the proper placement of RV parks, to enhance property values in the community by providing distinctive areas for RV parks. It is intended that all RV parks be a desirable living areas providing adequate open space. These parks shall be permitted in PRC zone only.
2.
Uses of Right:
The following uses shall be permitted in the RV Park:
a.
RV's both Dependent and Independent;
b.
Playgrounds and parks;
c.
Laundromats, Bathhouses and;
d.
Accessory buildings and structures (see Section 1001);
e.
Tents and other Dependent Camping Structures.
3.
Park Regulations:
Unless otherwise specified in this Code and the rules of the department of human resources, tourist accommodations, uses of right in the RV park shall conform to the following requirements:
a.
Minimum RV Park area:
1 acre.
b.
Minimum area for RV's, Buildings, Accessory Structures:
There shall be not less than 15 feet clear space between trailers and buildings, not less than ten feet between trailers and internal driveways.
c.
Minimum setback from exterior street:
30 feet.
d.
Minimum setback from park perimeter property lines:
15 feet.
e.
Minimum open space requirement:
5 percent of the net acreage (net acreage being the total acreage less the area of streets, drives, and other infrastructure).
f.
Minimum width of interior drives with unobstructed public access:
20 feet, with 50 feet radius cul-de-sacs as to prevent dead-ends.
g.
RV Parks shall have visual buffers such as shrubbery and/or opaque fencing at least six feet in height between the park and adjacent non-RV Park uses. Buffer strips shall meet the requirements of Section 1006.
h.
Each RV Park shall be graded and drained so that rainwater will not stand in pools or puddles.
i.
All RV/Camping spaces shall abut on an interior drive of gravel or similar all-weather surface; parking spaces of gravel or similar all-weather surface sufficient to accommodate at least two automobiles shall be located on each RV/Camping space. Each space is to be clearly identifiable with a sign at least four inches.
j.
Grounded and weatherproof electrical outlets supplying at least 115 volts, 30 amps shall be provided at each RV/Camping space. Power lines shall be located underground or at least 18 feet above ground. All electrical work and material shall comply with State and Local Codes.
k.
A sewer connection of not less than three inches in diameter shall be furnished at each RV space. Suitable fittings shall be provided at each sewer connection to permit a watertight junction to be made with the trailer outlet. Each sewer connection shall be so constructed that it can be closed and when not in use shall be capped to prevent escape of odors.
l.
A water tap connection of not less than ¾ inches in diameter shall be furnished at each RV space.
m.
All RV Parks shall be required to provide one dumpster space for every 25 RV/Camping spaces, or every portion thereof. Each dumpster space shall be enclosed on three sides by a chain-link, solid brick, concrete block, or uniformly painted board fence, and screened from sight from the adjoining residences and adjacent streets. These spaces should be so designed and developed as to provide easy access to the county/private maintenance vehicles. The number of dumpsters leased from the county/private company by the RV Park owner shall be determined by need.
4.
Sign Regulations:
a.
Signs, illuminated or non-illuminated; not to exceed a combined total sign area of 100 square feet; and that where RV Park abuts a state primary highway, only one business identification sign, illuminated or non-illuminated, not to exceed a total sign area of 100 square feet per mobile home park.
5.
Permit for RV Park:
a.
Initial permit for park shall be reviewed by planning commission and approved by county commission/city council.
b.
Initial permit shall be accompanied by permit fee as provided for in Section 1402 along with scaled surveyed site plan showing all structures, RV/Camping spaces, driveways, entrances, electrical/plumbing layout, and any other info required by community development director.
c.
Initial permit may require E & S plans and Soil Erosion site plan. This requirement will be determined by the city/county engineer.
d.
Initial permit must be approved by health department before planning commission makes final recommendation.
e.
RV Park permit must be renewed annually. An annual fee will be collected (Section 1402) and an annual inspection conducted by the code department. Upon passing inspection, the community development director may issue the permit without further review. If the park fails inspection, the owner has the right to appeal the community development director's decision to the governing commission/council, otherwise, the director's decision is final.
f.
A permanent housing unit (Site Built or Manufactured House) will be allowed for a grounds keeper.
g.
No RV shall be allowed to remain in the park for more than 12 months. Any RV that is to remain parked for longer than 60 days will be required to obtain a secondary permit from the code department. This permit shall be good for 60 days. This permit shall not be renewable upon expiration. The fee for this permit shall be set forth in Section 1402.
(Ord. of 2016, § 1501)
