Chapter 24 - UTILITIES
ARTICLE I. - IN GENERAL

Secs. 24-1—24-18. - Reserved.
ARTICLE II. - SEWAGE
DIVISION 1. - GENERALLY

Sec. 24-19. - Self-inspection of sewer lines by plumbers and utility contractors.
The board of commissioners pursuant to section 3 of Act No. 1046 enacted by the general assembly during the 1996 session of the legislature (1996 Ga. Laws, page 1632, § 3) and signed by the governor on April 25, 1996, does hereby exempt the county from the provisions of such Act codified as O.C.G.A. § 8-2-26(d).
(Code 2005, § 50-31; Res. of 5-14-1996)
Secs. 24-20—24-41. - Reserved.
DIVISION 2. - ON-SITE SEWAGE MANAGEMENT SYSTEMS

Sec. 24-42. - Septic tanks.
In order to protect the natural resources, the environment, and the public health of the county:
(1)
Septic tank systems shall be prohibited on any property identified by the Federal Emergency Management Agency as being within the special flood hazard areas inundated by 100-year flood zone A (floodplains);
(2)
Septic tank systems shall not be installed in a wetlands area without a proper section 404 permit from the U.S. Army Corps of Engineers;
(3)
Installation of septic tank systems in the groundwater recharge areas of the state (as delineated in Department of Natural Resources Hydrologic Atlas 18) shall be strictly in accordance with "Rules for Environmental Protection Criteria 391-3-16-.02;"
(4)
Installation of a septic tank shall be prohibited within 100 feet of the Satilla River and its streams and tributaries.
(Code 2005, § 50-51; Ord. of 8-3-1992, § II)
Sec. 24-43. - Enforcement.
(a)
The implementation and enforcement of this division and restrictions rest with the board of commissioners, and by virtue of this division are hereby expressly delegated to the county board of health.
(b)
The county board of health is hereby charged with promulgation of sufficient procedures for ensuring compliance with these rules and regulations by the citizens of, and those commercial activities who do business in, the county.
(c)
The county board of health is directed to implement procedures which will ensure that all persons who may come under this division will receive all procedural rights to which they are entitled under the laws of the state.
(Code 2005, § 50-52; Ord. of 8-3-1992, § III)
Sec. 24-44. - Violation and penalty.
(a)
Violation of these prohibitions and installation restrictions by any private individual, land owner, builder, remodeler, contractor, licensed electrician, licensed plumber, septic tank dealer or installer, or developer; or installation and delivery of any utility services by a public or private utility to any property which holds a septic tank system installed against these prohibitions and restrictions shall be a violation of this division.
(b)
Any violator shall, upon conviction, be punished in accordance with section 1-9.
(Code 2005, § 50-53; Ord. of 8-3-1992, § IV)
Sec. 24-45. - Jurisdiction; complaints.
(a)
The magistrate's court of the county shall have jurisdiction over violators of this division.
(b)
Complaints of violation of any provision of this division shall be brought before the magistrate's court by a designated representative of the county board of health and shall be prosecuted through that court.
(Code 2005, § 50-54; Ord. of 8-3-1992, § V)
Secs. 24-46—24-67. - Reserved.
ARTICLE III. - SMALL WIRELESS FACILITIES AND ANTENNAS ORDINANCE

Sec. 24-68. - Purpose and compliance.
(a)
O.C.G.A. § 32-4-42(6) authorizes Pierce County, Georgia (the "county") to establish reasonable regulations for the installation, construction, maintenance, renewal, and relocation of pipes, mains, conduits, cables, wires, poles, towers, traffic and other signals, and other equipment, facilities, or appliances in, on, along, over, or under public roads of the county. Further, 47 U.S.C. § 253(c) provides that the county has authority to manage its public rights-of-way. Finally, the Georgia Streamlining Wireless Facilities and Antennas Act, O.C.G.A. Title 36, Chapter 66C (the "SWFAA"), addresses the placement of small wireless facilities in the public rights-of-way of the county.
(b)
The county finds it is in the best interest of the county and its residents and businesses to establish requirements, specifications, and reasonable conditions regarding the placement of small wireless facilities and poles in the public rights-of-way. These requirements, specifications, and conditions are adopted in order to protect the public health, safety, and welfare of the residents and businesses of the county and to reasonably manage and protect the public rights-of-way and their uses in the county.
(c)
The objective of this article is to (i) implement the SWFAA, and (ii) ensure use of the public rights-of-way is consistent with the design, appearance, and other features of nearby land uses, protects the integrity of historic, cultural, and scenic resources, and does not harm residents' quality of life.
( Ord. No. 19-09 , art. I(1.1—1.3), 8-29-2019)
Sec. 24-69. - Definitions.
(a)
As used in this article, the following terms have the following meanings:
Antenna means: (i) communications equipment that transmits, receives, or transmits and receives electromagnetic radio frequency signals used in the provision of wireless services or other wireless communications; or (ii) Communications equipment similar to equipment described in part (i) used for the transmission, reception, or transmission and reception of surface waves. Such term shall not include television broadcast antennas, antennas designed for amateur radio use, or satellite dishes for residential or household purposes.
Applicable codes means uniform building, fire, safety, electrical, plumbing, or mechanical codes adopted by a recognized national code organization to the extent such codes have been adopted by the State of Georgia or the county or are otherwise applicable in the county.
Applicant means any person that submits and application.
Application means a written request submitted by an applicant to the county for a permit to; (i) collocate a small wireless facility in a right-of-way; or (ii) install, modify, or replace a pole or decorative pole in a right-of-way on which a small wireless facility is or will be collocated.
Authority pole means a pole owned, managed, or operated by or on behalf of the county. Such term shall not include poles, support structures, electric transmission structures, or equipment of any type owned by and electric supplier.
Collocate or collocation means to install, mount, modify, or replace a small wireless facility on or adjacent to a pole, decorative pole, or support structure.
Communication facility means the set of equipment and network components, including wires and cables and associated equipment and network components, used by a communications service provider to provide communications services.
Communications service provider means a provider of communications services.
Communications services means cable service as defined in 47 U.S.C. § 522(6); telecommunications service as defines in 47 U.S.C. § 153(53); information service as defined in 47 U.S.C. § 153(24), as each such term existed on January 1, 2019; or wireless services.
Consolidated application means an application for the collocation of multiple small wireless facilities on existing poles or support structures or for the installation, modification, or replacement of multiple poles and the collocation of associated small wireless facilities.
Decorative pole means an authority pole that is specially designed and placed for aesthetic purposes.
Electric supplier means any electric light and power company subject to regulation by the Georgia Public Service Commission, any electric membership corporation furnishing retail service in this state, and any municipality which furnished such service within this state.
Eligible facilities request means an eligible facilities request as set forth in 47 C.F.R. § 1.40001(b)(3), as it existed on January 1, 2019.
FCC means the Federal Communications Commission of the United States.
Fee means a one-time, nonrecurring charge based on time and expense.
Historic District means: (i) any district, site, building, structure, or object included in, or eligible for inclusion in, the National Register of Historic Places maintained by the Secretary of the Interior of the United States in accordance with Section VI.D.1.a.i-v of the Nationwide Programmatic Agreement codified by 47 C.F.R. Part 1; (ii) any area designated as a historic district under Article 2 of Chapter 10 of Title 44, the Georgia Historic Preservation Act; or (iii) any area designated as a historic district or property by law prior to April 26, 2019.
Law means and includes any and all federal, state, or local laws, statutes, common laws, codes, rules, regulations, orders, or ordinances.
Micro wireless facility means a small wireless facility not larger in dimension than 24 inches in length, 15 inches in width, and 12 inches in height that has an exterior antenna, if any, no longer than 11 inches.
Permit means a written authorization, in electronic or hard copy format, required to be issued by the County to initiate, continue, or complete the collocation of a small wireless facility or the installation, modification, or replacement of a pole or decorative pole upon which a small wireless facility is collocated.
Person means an individual, corporation, limited liability company, partnership, association, trust, or other entity or organization, including an authority.
Pole means a vertical pole such as a utility, lighting, traffic, or similar pole made of wood, concrete, metal, or other material that is lawfully located or to be located within a right-of-way, including without limitation a replacement pole and an authority pole. Such term shall not include a support structure, decorative pole, or electric transmission structure.
Rate means a recurring charge.
Reconditioning work means the activities associated with substantially painting, reconditioning, improving, or repairing authority poles.
Replace, replacement, or replacing means to replace a pole or decorative pole with a new pole or a new decorative pole, similar design, size, and scale to the existing pole or decorative pole consistent with 47 C.F.R. § 1.40001(b)(7) as it existed on January 1, 2019, in order to address limitations of, or change requirements applicable to, the existing pole to structurally support the collocation of a small wireless facility.
Replacement work means the activities associated with replacing an authority pole.
Right-of-way means, generally, property or any interest therein, whether or not in the form of a strip, which is acquired for or devoted to a public road; provided, however, that such term shall apply only to property or an interest therein that is under the ownership or control of the county and shall not include property or interest therein acquired for or devoted to an interstate highway or the public rights, structures, sidewalks, facilities, and appurtenances of buildings for public equipment and personnel used for or engaged in administration, construction, or maintenance of public roads or research pertaining thereto or scenic easements and easements of light, air, view, and access.
Small wireless facility means radio transceivers; surface wave couplers; antennas; coaxial, fiber optic, or other cabling; power supply; backup batteries; and comparable and associated equipment, regardless of technological configuration, at a fixed location or fixed locations that enable communication or surface wave communication between user equipment and a communications network and that meet both of the following qualifications: (i) each wireless provider's antenna could fit within an enclosure of no more than six cubic feet in volume; and (ii) all other wireless equipment associated with the facility is cumulatively no more that 28 cubic feet in volume, measured based upon the exterior dimensions of height by width by depth of any enclosure that may be used. The following types of associated ancillary equipment are not included in the calculation of volume of all other wireless equipment associated with any such facility: electric meters; concealment elements; telecommunications demarcation boxes; grounding equipment; power transfer switches; cut-off switches; and vertical cable runs for connection of power and other services. Such term shall not include a pole, decorative pole, or support structure on, under, or within which the equipment is located or collocated or to which the equipment is attached and shall not include any wireline backhaul facilities or coaxial, fiber optic, or other cabling that is between small wireless facilities, poles, decorative poles, or support structures or that is not otherwise immediately adjacent to or directly associated with a particular antenna.
State means the State of Georgia.
Support structure means a building, billboard, water tank, or any other structure to which a small wireless facility is or may be attached. Such term shall not include a decorative pole, electric transmission structure, or pole.
Wireless infrastructure provider means any person, including a person authorized to provide telecommunications services in this state, that builds, installs, or operates small wireless facilities, poles, decorative poles, or support structures on which small wireless facilities are or are intended to be used for collocation but that is not a wireless service provider.
Wireless provider means a wireless infrastructure provider or a wireless services provider.
Wireless services means any services provided to the public using licensed or unlicensed spectrum, including the use of Wi-Fi, whether at a fixed location or mobile.
Wireless services provider means a person that provides wireless services.
Wireline backhaul facility means an aboveground or underground wireline facility used to transport communications data from a telecommunication demarcation box associated with a small wireless facility to a network.
(b)
In the event that any federal or state law containing definitions used in this article is amended, the definition in the referenced section, as amended, shall control.
( Ord. No. 19-09 , art. II(2.1, 2.2), 8-29-2019)
Sec. 24-70. - Permits.
(a)
A permit is required to collocate a small wireless facility in the public right-of-way or to install, modify, or replace a pole or a decorative pole in the public right-of-way. A permit is not required to perform the activities described in O.C.G.A § 36-66C-6(e) or (f).
(b)
Any person seeking to collocate a small wireless facility in the public right-of-way, or to install, modify, or replace a pole or a decorative pole in the public right of was shall submit an application to the Pierce County Planning and Codes Department for a permit. Applications are available from the Pierce County Planning and Codes Department. Any material change to information contained in an application shall be submitted in writing to the Pierce County Planning and Codes Department within 30 days after the events necessitating the change.
(c)
Any person who intends to submit an application to the county pursuant to this article shall meet with the Pierce County Planning and Codes Department at least 30 days prior to submitting an application for a permit. The purpose of such meeting shall be to inform the County, in good faith, when the applicant expects to commence deployment of small wireless facilities and poles within the county, the number of small cell wireless facilities and poles it expects to deploy during the twenty-four (24) months after commencement, and the expected timing of such deployments.
(d)
Each application shall be submitted by the applicable wireless provider or its duly authorized representative and shall contain the following:
(1)
The applicant's name, address, telephone number, and email address, including emergency contact information for the applicant;
(2)
The names, addresses, telephone numbers, and email addresses of all consultants, if any, acting on behalf of the applicant with respect to filing the application;
(3)
A general description of the proposed work and the purposes and intent of the proposed facility. The scope and detail of such description shall be appropriate to the nature and character of the physical work to be performed, with special emphasis on those matters likely to be affected or impacted by the physical work proposed;
(4)
Detailed construction drawings regarding the proposed use of the right-of-way;
(5)
To the extent the proposed facility involves collocation on a pole or support structure, a structural report performed by a duly licensed engineer evidencing that the pole or support structure will structurally support the collocation (or that the pole or support structure may and will be modified to meet structural requirements) in accordance with applicable codes;
(6)
For any new aboveground facilities, visual depictions or representations if not included in the construction drawings;
(7)
Information indicating the horizontal and approximate vertical location, relative to the boundaries of the right-of-way, of the small wireless facility for which the application is being submitted;
(8)
If the application is for the installation of a pole, a certification that complies with O.C.G.A. § 36-66C-6(k);
(9)
If the small wireless facility will be collocated on a pole or support structure owned by a third party, a certification that the wireless provider has permission from the owner to collocate on the pole or support structure; and
(10)
If the applicant is not a wireless services provider, a certification that a wireless services provider has requested in writing that the applicant collocate the small wireless facilities or install, modify, or replace the pole or decorative pole at the requested location.
(e)
Each application for a permit shall include the maximum application fees permitted under O.C.G.A. § 36-66C-5(a)(1), (a)(2) and (a)(3). Such maximum application fees shall automatically increase on January 1 st of each year beginning January 1, 2021, as provided under O.C.G.A. § 36-66C-5(b).
(f)
The Pierce County Planning and Codes Department shall review applications for permits according to the timelines and using the procedures identified in O.C.G.A. § 36-66C-7 and 36-66C-13.
(g)
Applications for permits shall be approved unless the requested collocation of a small wireless facility or the requested installation, modification, or replacement of a pole or decorative pole:
(1)
Interferes with the operation of traffic control equipment;
(2)
Interferes with sight lines or clear zones for transportation or pedestrians;
(3)
Fails to comply with the Americans with Disabilities Act. 42 U.S.C. Section 12101, et seq., or similar laws of general applicability regarding pedestrian access or movement;
(4)
Requests that ground-mounted small wireless facility equipment be located more than seven and one-half feet in radial circumference from the base of the pole, decorative pole or support structure to which the small wireless facility antenna would be attached, provided that the county shall not deny the application if a greater distance from the base of the pole, decorative pole or support structure is necessary to avoid interfering with sight lines or clear zones for transportation or pedestrians or to otherwise protect public safety;
(5)
Fails to comply with applicable codes;
(6)
Fails to comply with the maximum limitations set forth in section 24-72 of this article or O.C.G.A. § 36-66C-7(h) or (i);
(7)
With respect to an application to install a pole or decorative pole, interferes with the widening, repair, reconstruction, or relocation of a public road or highway by a county or department of transportation that has been advertised for bid and scheduled for completion within six months after the application is filed;
(8)
With respect to an application to install a pole or decorative pole, interferes with a public works construction project governed by Chapter 91 of Title 36 which is advertised for bid and scheduled for completion within six months after the application is filed;
(9)
Fails to comply with O.C.G.A. § 36-66C-10, O.C.G.A. § 36-66C-11, or O.C.G.A. § 36-66C-12;
(10)
Fails to comply with laws of general applicability addressing pedestrian and vehicular traffic and safety requirements; or
(11)
Fails to comply with laws of general applicability that address the occupancy or management of the right-of-way and that are not otherwise inconsistent with this article.
(h)
For applications for new poles in the public right-of-way in areas zoned for residential use, the Pierce County Planning and Codes Department may propose an alternate location in the public right-of-way within 100 feet of the location set forth in the application, and the wireless provider shall use the Pierce County Planning and Codes Department's proposed alternate location unless the location imposes technical limits or significant additional costs. The wireless provider shall certify that it has made such a determination in good faith, based on the assessment of a licensed engineer, and it shall provide a written summary of the basis for such determination.
(i)
A permit issued under this section 24-70 shall authorize such person to occupy the public rights-of-way to: (i) collocate a small wireless facility on or adjacent to a pole or a support structure that does not exceed the limitations set forth in O.C.G.A. § 36-66C-7(h)(3) or on or adjacent to a decorative pole in compliance with O.C.G.A. § 36-66C-12; and (ii) install, modify, or replace a pole or decorative pole for collocation of a small cell wireless facility that does not exceed the limitations set for in O.C.G.A. § 36-66C-7(h)(1) and (h)(2).
(j)
Upon the issuance of a permit under this article, and on each anniversary of such issuance, every person issued a permit shall submit to the County the maximum annual payments permitted under O.C.G.A. § 36-66C-5(a)(4) and (a)(5); provided however, that if such person removes its small wireless facilities from the public rights-of-way pursuant to O.C.G.A. § 36-66C-5(e). then such person shall be responsible for the pro rata portion of the annual payment based on the number of days of occupation since the last annual payment. Upon making such pro rata payment and removal of the small wireless facilities, the person's annual payment obligations under this section shall cease as of the date of the actual removal. The maximum annual payments shall automatically increase on January 1 of each year beginning January 1, 2021, as provided under O.C.G.A. § 36-66C-5(b).
(k)
Any person issued a permit shall pay the fees identified in O.C.G.A. § 36-66C-5(a)(6) and (a)(7), as applicable.
(l)
The county may revoke a permit issued pursuant to the section 24-70 if the wireless provider or its equipment placed in the public right-of-way under that permit subsequently is not in compliance with any provision of this article or the Georgia Streamlining Wireless Facilities and Antennas Act. Upon revocation, the county may proceed according to subsection 24-70(m).
(m)
If a wireless provider occupies the public rights-of-way without obtaining a permit required by this section 24-70 or without complying with the SWFAA, then the county may, at the sole discretion of the county, restore the right-of-way, to the extent practicable in the reasonable judgement of the county, to its condition prior to the unpermitted collocation or installation and to charge the responsible wireless provider the reasonable, documented cost if the county in doing so, plus a penalty not to exceed $1,000.00. The county may suspend the ability of the wireless provider to receive any new permits from the county under this section 24-70 until the wireless provider has paid the amount assessed for such restoration costs and the penalty assessed, if any; provided, however, that the county may not suspend such ability of any applicant that has deposited the amount in controversy in escrow pending an adjudication of the merits of the dispute by a court of competent jurisdiction.
(n)
All accepted applications for permits shall be publicly available subject to the limitations identified in O.C.G.A. § 36-66C-6(c).
(o)
An applicant may file a consolidated application related to multiple small wireless facilities, poles or decorative poles so long as such consolidated application meets the requirements of O.C.G.A.§ 36-66C-13.
(p)
Activities authorized under a permit shall be completed within the timelines provided in O.C.G.A. § 36-66C-7(k)(2).
(q)
Issuance of a permit authorized the applicant to: (i) undertake the collocation, installation, modification, or replacement approved by the permit and (ii) operate and maintain the small wireless facilities and any associated pole covered by the permit for a period of ten years.
(r)
Permits shall be renewed following the expiration of the term identified in subsection 24-70(q) upon the terms and conditions identified in O.C.G.A. § 36-66C-7(k)(2)(B).
(s)
If an application for a permit seeks to collocate small wireless facilities on authority poles in the public rights-of-way, then the County shall, within 60-days of receipt of the completed application: (i) provide a good faith estimate for any make-ready work necessary to enable the authority pole to support the proposed facility; or (ii) notify the wireless provider that the wireless provider will be required to perform the make-ready work. Any make-ready work performed by the County shall be completed pursuant to and in accordance with the provisions of O.C.G.A. § 36-66C-7(n).
( Ord. No. 19-09 , art. III(3.1—3.19), 8-29-2019)
Sec. 24-71. - Removal; relocation; reconditioning; replacement; abandonment.
(a)
A person may remove its small wireless facilities from the public rights-of-way according to the procedures of O.C.G.A. § 36-66C-5(e).
(b)
In the event of a removal under subsection (a), the right-of-way shall be, to the extent practicable in the reasonable judgement of the county, restored to its condition prior to the removal. If a person fails to return the right-of-way, to the extent practicable in the reasonable judgement of the county, to its condition prior to the removal within 90 days of the removal, the county may, at the sole discretion of the county, restore the right-of-way to such condition and charge the person the county's reasonable, documented cost of removal and restoration, plus a penalty not to exceed $500.00. The county may suspend the ability of the person to receive any new permits under section 24-70 until the person has paid the amount assessed for such restoration costs and the penalty assessed, if any; provided, however, that the county will not suspend such ability of any person that has deposited the amount in controversy in escrow pending an adjudication of the merits of the dispute by a court of competent jurisdiction.
(c)
If, in the reasonable exercise of police powers, the county determines: (i) a pole or support structure unreasonably interferes with the widening, repair, reconstruction, or relocation of a public road or highway, or (ii) relocation of poles, support structures, or small wireless facilities is required as a result of a public project, the wireless provider shall relocate such poled, support structures, or small wireless facilities pursuant to and in accordance with the provisions of O.C.G.A. § 36-66C-7(l). If the wireless provider fails to relocate a pole, support structure, or small wireless facility or fails to provide a written good faith estimate of the time needed to relocate the pole, support structure or small wireless facility within the time period prescribed in O.C.G.A. § 36-66C-7(l), the County may take the actions authorized by O.C.G.A. § 36-66C-7(o), in addition to any other powers under applicable law.
(d)
The COUNTY shall recondition and replace authority poles consistent with the provisions of O.C.G.A. § 36-66C-7(m). Wireless providers shall accommodate and cooperate with reconditioning and replacement consistent with the provisions of O.C.G.A. § 36-66C-7(m).
(e)
A wireless provider must notify the county of its decision to abandon any small wireless facility, support structure, or pole pursuant to and in accordance with the provisions of O.C.G.A. § 36-66C-7(p)(1). The wireless provider shall perform all acts and duties identified in O.C.G.A. § 36-66C-7(p) regarding abandonment. The county may take all actions and exercise all powers authorized under O.C.G.A. § 36-66C-7(p) upon abandonment, in addition to any other powers under applicable law.
( Ord. No. 19-09 , art. IV(4.1—4.5), 8-29-2019)
Sec. 24-72. - Standards.
(a)
Small wireless facilities and new, modified, or replaced poles to be used for collocation of small wireless facilities may be placed in the public right-of-way as a permitted use: (i) upon a receipt of a permit under section 24-70; (ii) subject to applicable codes; and (iii) so long as such small wireless facilities and new, modified, or replacement poles to be used for collocation of small wireless facilities comply with the appropriate provisions of O.C.G.A. § 36-66C-7(h).
(1)
New, modified, or replacement poles installed in the right-of-way in a historic district and in an area zoned primarily for residential use shall not exceed 50 feet above ground level.
(2)
Each new, modified, or replacement poled installed in the right-of-way that is not in a historic district or in an area zoned primarily for residential use shall not exceed the greater of:
a.
Fifty feet above ground level; or
b.
Ten feet greater in height above ground level than the tallest existing pole in the same public right-of-way in place as of January 1, 2019, and located within 500 feet of the new proposed pole;
(3)
New small wireless facilities in the public right-of-way and collocated on an existing pole or support structure shall not exceed more than ten feet above the existing pole or support structure.
(4)
New small wireless facilities in the public right-of-way collocated on a new or replacement pole under subsection (a)(1) or subsection (a)(2) may not exceed above the top of such poles.
(b)
Unless it is determined that another design is less intrusive, or placement is required under applicable law, small wireless facilities shall be concealed as follows:
(1)
Antennas located at the top of poles and support structures shall be incorporated into the pole or support structure, or placed within shrouds of a size that the antenna appears to be part of the pole or support structure;
(2)
Antennas placed elsewhere on a pole or support structure shall be integrated into the pole or support structure, or be designed and placed to minimize visual impacts.
(3)
Radio units or equipment cabinets holding radio units and mounted on a pole shall be placed as high as possible, located to avoid interfering with, or creating any hazards to, any other use of the public rights-of-way, and located on one side of the pole. Unless the radio units or equipment cabinets can be concealed by appropriate traffic signage, radio units or equipment cabinets mounted below the communications space on poles shall be designed so the largest dimension is vertical, and the width is such that the radio units or equipment cabinets are minimally visible form the opposite side of the pole on which they are placed.
(4)
Wiring and cabling shall be neat and concealed within or flush to the pole or support structure, ensuring concealment of these components to the greatest extent possible.
(c)
Notwithstanding any provisions of this article to the contrary, an applicant may collocate a small wireless facility within a historic district, and may place or replace a pole within a historic district, only upon satisfaction of the following: (i) issuance of a permit under section 24-70 and (ii) compliance with applicable codes.
(d)
Notwithstanding any provision of this article to the contrary, an applicant may collocate a small wireless facility on a decorative pole, or may replace a decorative pole with a new decorative pole, in the event the existing decorative pole will not structurally support the attachment, only upon satisfaction of the following: (i) issuance of a permit under section 24-70 and (ii) compliance with applicable codes.
( Ord. No. 19-09 , art. V(5.1-5.4), 8-29-2019)
