Chapter 2 - ADMINISTRATION[1]
Footnotes:
--- (1) ---
State Law reference— Supplemental powers of municipalities and counties enumerated, Ga. Const. art. IX, § II, ¶ III; municipal corporations, O.C.G.A. title 36; open meetings, O.C.G.A. § 50-14-1 et seq.

ARTICLE I. - IN GENERAL

Sec. 2-1. - Consolidated fee schedule.
The county shall maintain a consolidated fee schedule for permits, licenses and other county fees, charges and costs. Unless otherwise indicated, the amount of any fees, charges and costs imposed by the county, including, but not limited to, those set forth in the county's consolidated fee schedule, shall be established from time to time by action of the board of commissioners, as it deems necessary. A copy of the consolidated fee schedule shall be kept in the office of the county clerk and be made available for public examination during normal working hours.
Sec. 2-2. - Enforcement of county environmental health regulations.
(a)
There are currently in existence certain rules and regulations adopted by the Pierce County Board of Health with the purpose of preserving the public health, safety, and welfare of citizens of Pierce County, Georgia. This section specifically incorporates by reference the provision of the following rules and regulations which are in force at the time of the adoption of this section:
(1)
Rules and Regulations pertaining to Food Service (adopted by the Department of Public Health and the Pierce County Board of Health and being Chapter 511-6-1 as subsequently amended and updated), and policies of the Pierce County Board of Health pertaining to Food Service;
(2)
Rules and Regulations for On-Site Sewage Management Systems (adopted by the Department of Public Health and the Pierce County Board of Health and being Chapter 511-3-1 as subsequently amended and updated), and policies of the Pierce County Board of Health pertaining to On-Site Sewage Management Systems;
(3)
Rules and Regulations for Mass Gatherings (adopted by the Department of Public and the Pierce County Board of Health and being Chapter 511-3-2 as subsequently amended and updated), and policies of the Pierce County Board of Health pertaining to Mass Gatherings;
(4)
Rules and Regulations pertaining to Drinking Water Supply (adopted by the Department of Public Health and the Pierce County Board of Health and being Chapter 511-3-3 as subsequently amended and updated), and policies of the Pierce County Board of Health pertaining to Drinking Water Supply;
(5)
Rules and Regulations pertaining to Solid Waste (adopted by the Department of Public Health and the Pierce County Board of Health and being Chapter 511-3-4 as subsequently amended and updated), and policies of the Pierce County Board of Health pertaining to Solid Waste;
(6)
Rules and Regulations pertaining to Public Swimming Pools, Spas, and Recreational Water Parks (adopted by the Department of Public Health and the Pierce County Board of Health and being Chapter 511-3-5 as subsequently amended and updated), and policies of the Pierce County Board of Health pertaining to Public Swimming Pools, Spas, and Recreational Water Parks;
(7)
Rules and Regulations pertaining to Portable Sanitation Contractors (adopted by the Department of Public Health and the Pierce County Board of Health and being Chapter 511-3-6 as subsequently amended and updated), and policies of the Pierce County Board of Health pertaining to Portable Sanitation;
(8)
Rules and Regulations pertaining to Georgia Smoke Free Air Act of 2005 (adopted by the Department of Public Health and the Pierce County Board of Health and being Chapter 511-3-7 as subsequently amended and updated), and policies of the Pierce County Board of Health pertaining to Smoke Free Air;
(9)
Rules and Regulations pertaining to Rabies Control (adopted by the Department of Public Health and the Pierce County Board of Health and being Chapter 511-4-2 and the "Rabies Control Ordinance" as subsequently amended and updated), and policies of the Pierce County Board of Health pertaining to Rabies Control;
(10)
Rules and Regulations pertaining to Tourist Accommodations (adopted by the Department of Public Health and the Pierce County Board of Health and being Chapter 511-6-2 as subsequently amended and updated), and policies of the Pierce County Board of Health pertaining to Tourist Accommodations;
(11)
Rules and Regulations pertaining to Body Art and/or Tattooing (adopted by the Department of Public Health and/or the Pierce County Board of Health and being rules and regulations for Body Art Studios and Artists as subsequently amended and updated), and policies of the Pierce County Board of Health pertaining to Body Art and/or Tattooing; and
A copy of all these rules and regulations are on file in the office of the county clerk.
(b)
The duty of implementation and enforcement of these regulations rest with the Pierce County Board of Commissioners, and by virtue of this section is hereby expressly delegated to the Pierce County Board of Health who is hereby charged with promulgation of sufficient procedures for insuring compliance with these rules and regulations by the citizens of Pierce County or those individuals found within the boundaries of Pierce County. The Pierce County Board of Health is directed to implement procedures which will insure that the citizens of Pierce County or those individuals found within the boundaries of Pierce County will receive all procedural rights to which they are entitled under the laws of the State of Georgia.
(c)
Any violation of the rules and regulations hereby referenced shall be a violation of this section and shall be a misdemeanor offense. Any violator shall be subject to the imposition of a fine not to exceed $1,000.00 and/or imprisonment for a period not to exceed sixty (60) days. Any failure of payment of inspection fees listed within the fee schedule adopted by Pierce County Board of Health and approved the Pierce County Board of Commissioners within 60 days of first notice, may result in suspension of permit.
(d)
The Magistrate's Court of Pierce County shall have jurisdiction over violators of this section and all procedures for enforcement of such section shall be as provided in O.C. G.A. Article 4, Chapter 10 of Title 15. Complaints of violation of any provision of this ordinance shall be brought before the magistrate's court by a designated representative of the Pierce County Board of Health and shall be prosecuted through that court.
( Ord. of 9-6-2016 , §§ I—IV)
Secs. 2-3—2-20. - Reserved.
ARTICLE II. - BOARD OF COMMISSIONERS

Sec. 2-21. - County commissioners' meetings.
The board of commissioners' regularly-scheduled meetings shall be held on the first Tuesday of every month. Unless otherwise noted, all meetings shall be held at 705 College Avenue, Blackshear, Georgia, and shall be open to the public.
Sec. 2-22. - Appearance before board.
Anyone wishing to be put on the agenda shall notify the board of commissioners' office by noon of the Wednesday before the regularly-scheduled meeting. They should also state their name, what it is in reference to and any other pertinent information. Anyone addressing the board during a meeting should state their name and the community in which they reside so the minutes can accurately reflect all necessary information.
Sec. 2-23. - Rules of Order.
In the event of a question as to order or procedure in the course of business by the board of commissioners, the most current edition of Robert's Rules of Order shall be the authority consulted and observed.
Secs. 2-24—2-49. - Reserved.
ARTICLE III. - OTHER BOARDS, COMMISSIONS AND AUTHORITIES[2]
Footnotes:
--- (2) ---
State Law reference— Development Authorities Law, O.C.G.A. § 36-62-1 et seq.

DIVISION 1. - GENERALLY

Secs. 2-50—2-71. - Reserved.
DIVISION 2. - INDUSTRIAL DEVELOPMENT AND BUILDING AUTHORITY

Sec. 2-72. - Need for authority.
There is a need for an industrial development authority to function in the county in accordance with the Act of the General Assembly of Georgia passed at the 1963 session and known as the "Industrial Development Authorities Law."
(Code 2005, § 2-81; Res. of 5-7-1963)
Sec. 2-73. - Created.
There shall be in existence an industrial development authority to be known as "The Pierce County Industrial Development and Building Authority," and such authority shall have all the rights, powers and immunity as set forth in the act creating the authority, as passed.
(Code 2005, § 2-82; Res. of 5-7-1963)
Secs. 2-74—2-104. - Reserved.
ARTICLE IV. - OFFICERS AND EMPLOYEES (RESERVED)

Secs. 2-105—2-121. - Reserved.
ARTICLE V. - FINANCE
DIVISION 1. - GENERALLY

Secs. 2-122—2-140. - Reserved.
DIVISION 2. - PURCHASING

Sec. 2-141. - Department created; purchasing agent.
A purchasing department shall be created in the board of commissioners' office. The duties of the purchasing agent will be assigned to the existing office staff. The duties of the purchasing agent shall be to ensure that all the steps of the purchasing policies and procedures, as prescribed, are followed and completed; that the prices for items ordered are the best that can be obtained; that the necessary forms and reports are prepared and filed, and such other duties as may be necessary to ensure efficient purchasing practices or responsibilities as may be prescribed by the county manager.
(Code 2005, § 2-151; Ord. of 2-7-1983)
Sec. 2-142. - Responsibilities of purchasing agent.
(a)
All purchases or contracts to purchase supplies or services shall be made by the purchasing agent after prescribed procedures have been followed. No officer or employee of the county shall handle purchasing operations for any materials or services except through the purchasing agent, and no bid shall be honored or awarded if this method is not followed.
(b)
It shall be the responsibility of the purchasing agent to make all purchases except those within prescribed bid limits on the competitive bid basis.
(Code 2005, § 2-152; Ord. of 2-7-1983)
Sec. 2-143. - Bid limits.
(a)
The purchasing procedures prescribed in this division shall be in lieu of procedures set forth in other related ordinances adopted by the board of commissioners. The bid limit is the dollar amount set for goods and services that can be purchased without a formal bid requirement.
(b)
The bid limit is $2,500.00 per order. With the bid limits established, the following purchase (bid) policies also apply:
(1)
Competitive bids will be solicited for all items which exceed the bid limits stated above.
(2)
The purchasing agent may, without resorting to competitive bids, make purchases of those items the price of which is $2,500.00 or less. Items or services whose purchase price is more than $2,500.00 will be purchased through the competitive bid procedure.
(Code 2005, § 2-153; Ord. of 2-7-1983)
Sec. 2-144. - Procedures.
The following procedures shall be followed:
(1)
The purchasing agent shall prepare, or cause to be prepared, the specifications for goods or services required. The specifications must describe and outline the minimum qualities which products or services must have if they are to meet the acceptable purchase requirements of the county. The potential vendor must meet or exceed the specified requirements in order for his goods or services to be considered for purchase. Specification drawings, industry standards or any other descriptive reference shall be required. Specifications shall be as clear and accurate as possible.
(2)
Bid deposits or surety may be required for some purchases. When required, the deposits or surety shall be as prescribed in the public notices inviting bids. Unsuccessful bidders shall be entitled to a refund of such deposit or surety. A successful bidder shall have his bid refunded upon successful completion of the contract, but should such successful bidder fail to enter into a contract within the time specified after written notification of the bid award, he shall forfeit any surety deposit made to the county.
(3)
The county may require a performance bond to be furnished before entering into a bid-based contract. Such performance bond shall be in such amount as shall be found necessary to protect the best interest of the county.
(4)
With the assistance of various county departments, the purchasing agent may compile and maintain a bidder's list. Vendors desiring to be listed may advise the purchasing agent, in writing, of the following:
a.
Type of business;
b.
Names of officers, owners or partners;
c.
Names of persons authorized to sign bids, offers, contracts and invoices;
d.
Type of equipment, supplies, and/or materials sold and/or services provided; and
e.
Name of business, address, phone number and length of time in present business.
(5)
Additionally, the purchasing agent may use the bidder's list to purchase items within the prescribed bid limits. This will enable the purchasing agent to more readily order those items which are within the bid limits as needed. When this procedure is used, quotations will be obtained from at least three separate vendors by telephone.
(6)
The county will award bids based upon the recommendation of the purchasing agent. The bids shall be opened in a public place and tabulated. The award will normally be made to the lowest and best responsible bidder. When an award is recommended not to be made or to be made to other than the lowest bidder, a full and complete statement of the reasons therefor shall be prepared by the purchasing agent and shall be filed along with other papers relating to the transaction.
(7)
The board of commissioners reserves the right to reject any bid which does not conform to specifications or for other reasons. A formal advertisement shall be made in local area newspapers to ensure every attempt is being made to obtain the lowest price available with quality requirements. Bids must be received within 30 days from the date of the first advertisement. The advertisement shall appear in the local and area newspapers at least two times during that 30-day period. Exceptions will be made to this procedure in those cases where time is of the essence or emergency conditions exist. Bids shall be opened in a public place and properly tabulated, and the successful bidder will be determined. The purchasing agent will then present the bid results to the board of commissioners for final selection of the bid award. Any reason for not awarding the lowest bid must be clearly stated and be a matter of public information.
(8)
All bids may be rejected when it is in the public interest to do so. In determining the lowest and best responsible vendor, in addition to price, the following will be considered:
a.
The ability, capacity, and skill of the vendor to perform the contract or provide the materials or services required.
b.
Whether or not the vendor can perform the contract or provide the materials and services promptly or within the time specified, without delaying or interference.
c.
The character, integrity, reputation, judgement, experience and efficiency of the vendor.
d.
The quality of performance of previous contracts, orders, or services.
e.
The sufficiency of the financial resources and ability of the vendor to perform the contract, fill the order or provide the service.
f.
The quality, availability, and adaptability of the supplier's contractual services to the particular use required.
g.
The ability of the vendor to provide future maintenance and service for the use of the subject of the contract.
(9)
In case of actual emergency, upon notification by the county manager, the purchasing agent may purchase directly any supplies whose immediate procurement is essential to prevent delays in work which may vitally affect the life, health, or convenience of citizens of the county. All such emergency purchases must contain a written explanation of the circumstances involved in the emergency and such report will be filed with a copy of the delivery record.
(Code 2005, § 2-154; Ord. of 2-7-1983)
Secs. 2-145—2-173. - Reserved.
ARTICLE VI. - PERSONNEL
DIVISION 1. - GENERALLY

Secs. 2-174—2-199. - Reserved.
DIVISION 2. - PERSONNEL MANAGEMENT SYSTEM POLICIES

Sec. 2-200. - County personnel policy manual.
Unless otherwise addressed in this Code, all county personnel policy shall be as set out in the county's personnel policy manual, which may be amended from time to time by action of the board of commissioners, and which shall be available for examination and copying in the office of human resources during normal business hours.
Sec. 2-201. - Personnel management system.
The county personnel management system is a system of employment which recognizes that the county employees covered by the system should be selected and advanced according to their knowledge, skills, and abilities, and that employees who perform satisfactorily should be retained in their positions as long as the position exists, regardless of factors extraneous to their performance and conduct.
(Code 2005, § 34-31; Res. of 3-7-1988, § 1.100)
Sec. 2-202. - Establishment.
Personnel policies have been voluntarily established by the board of commissioners and constitutional officers of the county. The policies are intended to standardize the personnel practices in the various departments where standardization is possible, and to extend certain privileges to the employees of the different departments. In establishing these practices and privileges, the officials are not relinquishing their constitutional authority as appointing authorities, nor are they creating a property interest for employees that leads to the expectancy of continued employment at any time, in any position, pay grade or pay step. The privileges are considered good personnel practices and are consistent with the goals stated in this section. These policies have been established by a resolution adopted by the board of commissioners.
(Code 2005, § 34-32; Res. of 3-7-1988, § 1.200)
Sec. 2-203. - Purpose.
(a)
Personnel policies have been adopted by the board commissioners and constitutional officers to:
(1)
Establish uniform benefits and procedures;
(2)
Ensure equal employment opportunity; and
(3)
Comply with office of revenue sharing regulations.
(b)
In a broader sense, the commission and officers of the county want to ensure high morale for the employees of the county, and high productivity for the people of the county. To accomplish those goals, the officials feel that fair and equitable treatment of all applicants and employees is a necessity. Although all jobs are not identical, and, therefore, all conditions of employment will not be identical, many personnel practices can be the same in all departments. Among those practices are the methods of accruing and requesting annual and sick leave, the method of administering disciplinary action, and the methods of administering employee complaints. By including those provisions in the policies, the county officials hope to provide equal benefits to each employee and to ensure good personnel practices.
(Code 2005, § 34-33; Res. of 3-7-1988, § 1.300)
Sec. 2-204. - Coverage.
These policies apply to the covered employees in the departments of participating officials in the county. Participating officials will accept the policies as desirable standard procedures by signature. Federal law recognizes that neither elected officials nor members of their personal staffs should be covered by rules or regulations which imply specific employment practices. Therefore, the elected officials will determine which positions in their departments are policy making or personal staff and will exclude those positions from the classification plan. This practice of identifying covered employees is a voluntary attempt to extend the personnel practices to as many classes of employees as possible. By including certain classes, the officials are not redefining the relationships between themselves and their employees, as defined by the constitution of the state; they are merely extending the personnel practices to as many employees as possible.
(Code 2005, § 34-34; Res. of 3-7-1988, § 1.400)
Sec. 2-205. - Administration.
In general, unless otherwise stated in the county's personnel policy manual, the officials are responsible for administering these policies in their respective departments. The county manager will give administrative support to the departments under constitutional officers, and will administer the policies for departments under the board of commissioners. The chairperson will become directly involved in administering the policies in all departments when budget and funding are concerned and when discipline and hearings are involved.
(Code 2005, § 34-35; Res. of 3-7-1988, § 1.500)
