Chapter 20 - SOLID WASTE[1]
Footnotes:
--- (1) ---
State Law reference— Authorization to provide garbage and solid waste collection and disposal, Ga. Const. art. 9, § 2, ¶ 3; Solid Waste Management Act, O.C.G.A. § 12-8-20 et seq.; hazardous waste disposal, O.C.G.A. § 12-8-61 et seq.; litter Control Law, O.C.G.A. § 16-7-42 et seq.; local, multijurisdictional and regional solid waste plans, O.C.G.A. § 12-8-31.1.

ARTICLE I. - IN GENERAL

Secs. 20-1—20-18. - Reserved.
ARTICLE II. - SOLID WASTE HANDLING AND DISPOSAL

Sec. 20-19. - Applicability.
This article shall apply to all municipal solid waste landfills, as that term is defined O.C.G.A. § 12-8-22(20), as may be amended from time to time, including all related solid waste handling facilities, as that term is defined by O.C.G.A. § 12-8-22(35), as may be amended from time to time. Any person desiring to operate a municipal solid waste landfill or related solid waste handling facility within the county shall apply for a business license and shall demonstrate proof of compliance with all of the provisions of this article.
(Ord. of 3-7-2006, § 1)
Sec. 20-20. - Traffic safety.
(a)
All such operations shall be located on a state highway or county primary road, as defined by the board of commissioners, for ingress and egress thereto, and on a road that does not create traffic through an area developed primarily for residential purposes. Where necessary, the board of commissioners may require the applicant to construct and/or improve a road to accommodate the truck travel necessitated by the operations, as a condition of such operation, and for the purpose of routing traffic around residential areas. A stop sign shall be erected and maintained by the owner/operator at all egress roads from the landfill. Under no circumstances shall trucks use private drives or private access routes to or from the applicant's property that are within 300 feet of any residence.
(b)
Sufficient setback shall be provided from all property lines and public highways to ensure adequate lateral support for adjacent public and private property. No disposal area shall be permitted closer than 500 feet from the interior boundary lines. Disposal areas shall at no time be permitted where adjoining lateral support for the maintenance of adjoining land is not maintained.
(Ord. of 3-7-2006, § 2)
Sec. 20-21. - Environmental protection.
(a)
No disposal areas shall be permitted closer than 1,000 feet to any residence or water supply well, or within 1,000 feet of any residential district. No disposal areas shall be permitted closer than 500 feet to state waters, as that term is defined by O.C.G.A. § 12-7-3(16), as may be amended from time to time, and as determined by the board of commissioners.
(b)
Any related solid waste handling facility and its accessory structures shall not be located closer than 500 feet from the interior boundary lines, nor 1,000 feet from any residence or water supply well. Where practicable, the solid waste handling facility shall be as close to the center of the subject property as possible and at a lower level than the surrounding terrain to lessen visual and noise impact. The foregoing shall not apply to the municipal solid waste landfill.
(c)
No disposal area shall interfere with the established natural flow of surface waters to the detriment of or damage to adjoining public or private properties. The board of commissioners shall have the right to require an applicant to construct adequate sediment basins if it appears that substantial water or sediment may be carried into any nearby property or state waters.
(d)
Hazardous wastes, as that term is defined by O.C.G.A. § 12-8-62(10), as may be amended from time to time, are prohibited.
(e)
No disposal area shall be located within a seismic impact zone, as that term is defined by the state environmental protection division's Rules for Solid Waste Management, GA. Comp. R. & Regs. R. 391-3-4-.05(1)(g), as may be amended from time to time.
(f)
Prior to the commencement of the construction of any landfill within the county, the owner/operator of the proposed landfill shall obtain from all state waters and from all water supply wells located within two miles of the boundaries of all property owned by the owner/operator of the landfill, a water sample, which shall be analyzed for all constituents listed in appendix I and appendix II to 40 CFR part 258, subpart E, as amended, 56 Fed. Reg. 51032-51039 (October 9, 1991), by a properly accredited laboratory approved by the board of commissioners. These samples shall contain the exact location from which they were obtained, the name and address of the property owner who owns the land from which the water sample was taken, and the name and address of the principal user of the water supply well, if different from the owner of the property upon which the well is located. The results of the individual analysis shall be certified by the laboratory, submitted to each property owner from whose property a sample was taken, and filed with the board of commissioners.
(g)
All wells to be included in the groundwater monitoring program required by the state environmental protection division shall be monitored quarterly for all constituents in appendix I to 40 CFR part 258, subpart E, as amended, 56 Fed. Reg. 51032-51039 (October 9, 1991), and shall be monitored annually for all constituents in appendix II to 40 CFR part 258, subpart E, as amended, 56 Reg. 51032-51039 (October 9, 1991). Copies of all monitoring test well results shall be delivered to the board of commissioners promptly upon receipt by the owner/operator.
(Ord. of 3-7-2006, § 3)
Sec. 20-22. - Sight barriers and fencing.
(a)
Sight barriers shall be provided along setback lines of the sites which lack natural screening conditions provided by existing contours or evergreen growth consist with the sight barriers prescribed by this subsection. Sight barriers shall consist of the following: a berm of at least ten feet in height and plantings of evergreen trees, not more than ten feet apart, or evergreen shrubbery not more than five feet apart, in staggered rows, on the berm, parallel to the boundaries of the property. Evergreens shall be at least two-year transplants at the time of planting, shall grow to not less than ten feet in height within two years or less, and shall be sufficiently spaced to provide effective sight barriers when ten feet in height. Trees or shrubs which die must be replaced promptly.
(b)
The landfill is to be completely fenced with an eight-foot high, chain-link fence with three strands of barbed wire, angled 45 degrees toward the outside of the premises on the top. Such fence shall be located inside of any berms or screening following the exterior boundaries. All entrances to the landfill shall have an eight-foot-high gate, which shall be closed and locked at all times that the landfill is not open.
(Ord. of 3-7-2006, § 4)
Sec. 20-23. - Nuisance abatement.
(a)
Air pollution, noise, and vibration, and their effects upon adjacent properties shall be minimized by the use of adequate soundproofed equipment and buildings designed to accomplish such minimization and approved by the board of commissioners, and by the proper use of berms, walls, and natural planting screens. Interior and adjoining roads used in the operations shall have their surfaces treated to minimize air pollution, noise, and vibration.
(b)
Rodent traps shall be placed 100 yards apart around the perimeter of the landfill, inside the fence, and shall be inspected and cleaned not less frequently than once per day.
(c)
Any security lighting deemed necessary by the owner/operator shall be the sodium vapor type and shall be aligned so that no part of the illuminated field shall fall on any adjoining property.
(d)
Every landfill shall, at its own expense, connect to a public water supply and install at least one outlet per square acre in order to ensure an adequate water supply and facilities for quick delivery of water to any part of the property for the purpose of extinguishing fires. Capacity shall be such that at least 50 gallons of water per minute can be applied to any fire, continuously, for at least ten hours. The source of the water supply and the facilities to provide for the delivery of the water shall be indicated on the plans submitted for approval by the board of commissioners.
(e)
Every landfill shall, at its own expense, connect to a public sewer system for the disposal of its leachate. If necessary for the local publicly-owned treatment works to handle the leachate, the owner/operator of any landfill shall fund all necessary improvements to the publicly-owned treatment works through which leachate from the landfill will be discharged.
(f)
All litter shall be collected from the landfill site by the end of each working day and either placed in the fill, compacted and covered that day, or stored in a covered container.
(Ord. of 3-7-2006, § 5)
Sec. 20-24. - Operating hours.
All operations, other than the maintenance of equipment within a fully-enclosed building, shall be conducted only between the hours of 7:00 a.m. and 6:00 p.m., Monday through Friday. A sign clearly indicating the hours of operation and prohibiting dumping at all other times shall be placed in a conspicuous location at the entrance. Disposal facilities shall have qualified personnel on duty at all times to direct the dumping, spreading, compaction, and covering of materials. All such personnel shall reside within the county in close enough proximity to respond immediately in the event of a fire.
(Ord. of 3-7-2006, § 6)
Sec. 20-25. - Liability insurance.
All applicants shall be required to carry personal injury and property damage insurance, in addition to any and all bonds required by state law, during operation of the landfill, including closure and post-closure, and for not less than 20 years after the expiration of the post-closure period. Such insurance shall be in the amount of not less than $1,000,000.00 for each person injured or property damaged per incident. Such insurance shall cover injury or damage occurring upon the site of the operation and upon properties in the vicinity of the landfill as the result of conditions or activities occurring in connection with the operation. Such policies shall be issued by an insurance carrier approved by the board of commissioners, and such policies shall be filed with the board of commissioners. The deductible written into the insurance policy shall not exceed five percent of the per-incident limit of the liability of the policy. The coverage obtained by the owner/operator to fulfill the requirements of this section shall include the provisions that the insurer shall notify the board of commissioners 30 days prior to the cancellation of the insurance for any reason.
(Ord. of 3-7-2006, § 7)
Sec. 20-26. - Reclamation or redevelopment.
(a)
A reclamation or redevelopment plan for the closed landfill shall be submitted to and approved by the board of commissioners along with the application submitted pursuant to this article. The plan shall propose reclamation or redevelopment that will best serve the needs and interest of the citizens of the county. Reclamation or redevelopment shall be accomplished as soon as practicable following closure of any area of the landfill. Substantial completion of reclamation or redevelopment shall be effected within two years after the termination of the waste disposal facility. Inactivity for six consecutive months shall constitute, for this purpose, termination of disposal activities.
(b)
Approval of a reclamation or redevelopment plan by the board of commissions will be based upon the consideration of the following factors:
(1)
The most advantageous use of the land, resources, and property.
(2)
The character of the area in question and its particular suitability, if any, for the particular use.
(3)
Conservation of property values as well as natural resources and the general appropriate trend and character of development in the subject area.
(4)
The protection and preservation of the general health, safety, and welfare of the county.
(Ord. of 3-7-2006, § 8)
Sec. 20-27. - Submission of design and operation plans.
No landfill activities shall be allowed or commenced until a plan has been submitted to the board of commissioners, disclosing compliance with all of the provisions of this article. Such plans shall include, among other things, the following:
(1)
A copy of the design and operation plan submitted to and approved by the state environmental protection division.
(2)
A map disclosing the location of all state waters and water supply wells from which the samples will be taken for analysis in accordance with section 20-21 and disclosing the groundwater flow directions in all aquifers.
(3)
A written agreement, signed by the owner/operator of the landfill, agreeing to abide by the following plan for solutions to groundwater contamination should such contamination occur as a result, or suspected result, of his disposal operations.
(Ord. of 3-7-2006, § 9)
Sec. 20-28. - A trust fund for the mitigation of landfill problems.
(a)
A trust fund shall be established at a bank within the county, chosen by the board of commissioners. The operator shall pay $1.00 per ton of waste disposed into this trust fund for the life of the landfill. Expenditures from the trust fund are to be approved by a committee consisting of one citizen appointed by the board of commissioners, the chairperson of the board of commissioners, and one representative of the owner/operator. Funds may be used for, without limitation, off-site litter control, groundwater and surface water monitoring, provision of alternate water supplies, and payments to adjacent property owners and others, at the discretion of the committee, for damages caused as a result of the landfill or its related operations. The trust fund shall exist and earn interest for 20 years following the expiration of the post-closure period, and at that time, the remaining funds shall be paid to the owner/operator or his successors or assigns.
(b)
In the event that there is a statistically significant increase over background values, as determined by the board of commissioners, for any constituent for which monitoring is required, further waste disposal shall cease until such time as the groundwater contamination has been remediated to background values. When any water supply well is located down gradient and within one mile of a contaminant plume, as determined by the board of commissioners, an alternate water supply shall, at the discretion of the board of commissioners, be provided by the owner/operator of the landfill, and at the expense of the owner/operator, for protection of the public health and welfare. Bottled water shall be provided as a temporary measure until a permanent, alternate water supply can be provided by installing a new well in a location approved by the board of commissioners and the affected property owner, by connecting the property owner to an existing municipal water supply if acceptable to the property owner, or, if so requested by the board of commissioners, by building for and donating to the county a public water supply system.
(Ord. of 3-7-2006, § 10)
Sec. 20-29. - Financial guarantee.
Financial guarantee shall be given to the county, ensuring the proper closure and reclamation or redevelopment of the landfill. The amount of the guarantee shall not be less than $5,000.00 per acre, but not less than $100,000.00 nor more than $1,000,000.00. All such financial guarantees shall be reviewed annually on or about the anniversary date of the landfill permit, and the amount of the financial guarantee may be increased or decreased based upon the cost of living index promulgated by the U.S. Department of Labor, using the date of issuance of the business license pursuant to this article as the base period for the $5,000.00 per acre amount. Such financial guarantee shall be in the form of cash, certified check, irrevocable bank letter of credit issued by a bank located within the county chosen by the board of commissioners, or trust fund established at a bank within the county chosen by the board of commissioners. The financial guarantee shall be provided prior to issuance of the business license required by this article.
(Ord. of 3-7-2006, § 11)
Sec. 20-30. - Inspection.
The board of commissioners, or its duly authorized representative, shall have access to the landfill during all hours of operation for the purpose of inspecting the landfill and related operations to ensure compliance with requirements of this article. Keys for admittance to the landfill shall be given to the board of commissioners.
(Ord. of 3-7-2006, § 12)
Sec. 20-31. - Access by citizens of the county.
Any landfill shall be open to county residents, property owners, and businesses, during established business hours, at a rate to be agreed upon by the board of commissioners. Special handling fees may be charged for bulky or difficult to process items.
(Ord. of 3-7-2006, § 13)
Sec. 20-32. - Existing sanitary landfill operations.
This article shall not apply to any permitted landfill operation existing on the effective date of the ordinance from which this article is derived, and any such landfill shall be allowed to continue in operation in accordance with the permit issued by the state environmental protection division. This article shall apply, however, to any new or expanded landfill for which a permit is issued by the state environmental protection division on or after the effective date of the ordinance from which this article is derived.
(Ord. of 3-7-2006, § 14)
Secs. 20-33—20-52. - Reserved.
ARTICLE III. - YARD TRIMMING

Sec. 20-53. - Definitions.
The following words, terms and phrases, when used in this article, shall have the meanings ascribed to them in this section, except where the context clearly indicates a different meaning:
Commercial solid wastes means all types of solid waste generated by stores, offices, restaurants, warehouses and other nonmanufacturing activities, excluding residential and industrial wastes.
Composting means the controlled biological decomposition of organic matter into a stable, odor-free humus.
Leachate collection system means a system at a landfill for collection of the leachate which may percolate through the waste and into the soils surrounding the landfill.
Municipal solid waste means any solid waste derived from households, including garbage, trash and sanitary waste in septic tanks, and includes solid waste from single-family and multifamily residences, hotels and motels, bunkhouses, campgrounds, picnic grounds, and day-use recreation areas. The term "municipal solid waste" includes yard trimmings and commercial solid waste but does not include solid waste from mining, agricultural or silvicultural operations or industrial processes or operations.
Municipal solid waste disposal facility means any facility or location where the final deposition of any amount of municipal solid waste occurs, whether or not mixed with or including commercial or industrial solid waste, including, but not limited to, municipal solid waste landfills and municipal solid waste thermal treatment facilities.
Municipal solid waste landfill means a disposal facility where any amount of municipal solid waste, whether or not mixed with or including commercial waste, industrial waste, nonhazardous sludges or small quantity generator hazardous waste, is disposed of by means of placing an approved cover thereon.
Yard trimmings means leaves, brush, grass clippings, shrub and tree prunings, discarded Christmas trees, nursery and greenhouse vegetative residuals, and vegetative matter resulting from landscaping development and maintenance, other than mining, agricultural and silvicultural operations.
(Code 2005, § 42-31; Res. of 9-3-1996, § I(A))
Sec. 20-54. - Placement and disposal of yard trimmings; prohibitions.
(a)
It shall be unlawful to place or mix yard trimmings with solid waste within the county.
(b)
Yard trimmings shall not be disposed of at any solid waste disposal facility having a liner or leachate collection system or requiring vertical expansion located within the county.
(Code 2005, § 42-32; Res. of 9-3-1996, § I(B))
Sec. 20-55. - Sorting, storing, composting and collecting yard trimmings.
The following restrictions apply to yard trimmings which are generated in or may ultimately be disposed of in the county. These restrictions shall include, but are not limited to the following:
(1)
Yard trimmings shall not be placed in or mixed with municipal solid waste;
(2)
There is a ban on the disposal of yard trimmings at municipal solid waste disposal facilities having liners and leachate collection systems or requiring vertical expansion within its jurisdiction;
(3)
Yard trimmings shall be sorted and stored for collection in such a manner as to facilitate collection, composting, or other handling; and
(4)
Yard trimmings shall be sorted and stockpiled or chipped, composted, used as mulch, or otherwise beneficially reused or recycled to the maximum extent feasible.
(Code 2005, § 42-33; Res. of 9-3-1996, § I(C))
Sec. 20-56. - Penalties.
Any person violating section 20-55 shall be punished, upon conviction, in accordance with the provisions of section 1-9.
(Code 2005, § 42-34; Res. of 9-3-1996, § I(D))
