ARTICLE IV. - CHIEF MAGISTRATE[5]

Footnotes:
--- (5) ---
Editor's note— Printed herein is 1995 Ga. Laws (Act No. 205), page 4211 which established nonpartisan primaries and elections for the chief magistrate. Amendments are indicated by parenthetical history notes following amended provisions. The absence of a history note indicates that the provision remains unchanged from the original. Obvious misspellings have been corrected without notation. For stylistic purposes, headings and catchlines have been made uniform, and expression of numbers in text as appears in the Code of Ordinances has been used. A consistent scheme of capitalization has also been used. Additions for clarity are indicated by brackets. Catchlines have been editorially supplied.

Sec. 1. - Elected by voters.
The chief magistrate of the magistrate court of Pierce County shall be elected by the qualified voters of Pierce County in a nonpartisan primary and election. Except as otherwise provided in this Act, the chief magistrate of the magistrate court shall be elected pursuant to the general elections laws of Georgia.
Sec. 2. - Term.
Beginning with the election held in 1996 and every four years thereafter, the chief magistrate of the magistrate court shall be elected at the nonpartisan primary and general election immediately preceding the expiration of the term of office of the chief magistrate of the magistrate court, and shall take office on January 1 immediately following such election for a term of four years and until such chief magistrate's successor is elected and qualified.
(1995 Ga. Laws (Ex. Sess.)(Act No. EX 7), page 234)
Sec. 3. - Nominations of candidates during primary.
Candidates for the office of chief magistrate of the magistrate court shall be nominated in a nonpartisan primary to be held at the same time as and in conjunction with the general primary every four years. A nominating petition shall not be required to place the name of any such candidate on the primary ballot. A candidate may have his or her name placed on the primary ballot by filing a notice of candidacy with the county election superintendent and by paying the qualifying fee.
Sec. 4. - General Election.
The candidate receiving a majority of votes in the nonpartisan primary shall be the nominee for the office of chief magistrate of the magistrate court and shall be the only candidate for such office to have his or her name appear on the general election ballot. In the event no candidate receives a majority of the votes cast, the two candidates receiving the highest number of votes for the office shall be in a runoff to be held on the same day as a runoff from the general primary, as provided by state law, to determine which candidate will be on the general election ballot.
Sec. 5. - Nonpartisan election.
The names of all candidates for the office of chief magistrate of the magistrate court shall appear in a separate section of each primary and general election ballot of each elector. No party designation or affiliation shall appear beside the name of any such candidate on any primary or general election ballot, and no candidate for the office of chief magistrate of the magistrate court shall be nominated by any political party.
Sec. 6. - Statutory authority.
This Act is enacted pursuant to the authority of Code Section 21-2-139 of the O.C.G.A. [O.C.G.A. § 21-2-139].
Sec. 7. - General repeal.
All laws and parts of laws in conflict with this Act are repealed.
