ARTICLE V. - SHERIFF[6]

Footnotes:
--- (6) ---
Editor's note— Printed herein is 1965 Ga. Laws (Act No. 28), page 2071. Amendments are indicated by parenthetical history notes following amended provisions. The absence of a history note indicates that the provision remains unchanged from the original. Obvious misspellings have been corrected without notation. For stylistic purposes, headings and catchlines have been made uniform, and expression of numbers in text as appears in the Code of Ordinances has been used. A consistent scheme of capitalization has also been used. Additions for clarity are indicated by brackets. Catchlines have been editorially supplied.

Sec. 1. - Prior fee system abolished.
The present method of compensating the sheriff of Pierce County, known as the fee system, is hereby abolished and, in lieu thereof, the sheriff shall receive an annual salary as hereinafter provided.
Sec. 2. - Compensation as provided by law.
The compensation and allowances of the sheriff of Pierce County shall be as now or hereafter provided by law. In addition to the compensation and allowances provided by law, the governing authority of Pierce County is authorized to provide from county funds a supplement to the compensation of the sheriff of Pierce County, the exact amount of said supplement to be fixed by the governing authority and paid in equal monthly installments."
(1966 Ga. Laws (Act No. 193), page 2570, § 1; 1971 Ga. Laws (Act No. 201), page 2496, § 1; 1974 Ga. Laws (Act No. 792), page 2077, § 1)
Sec. 3. - Collection of fees.
After the effective date of this Act, the sheriff shall diligently and faithfully undertake to collect all fees, fines, forfeitures, commissions, costs, allowances, penalties, funds, monies, and all other emoluments and perquisites formerly allowed him as compensation for services in any capacity, and shall receive and hold the same in trust for said county as public monies, and shall pay the same to the county fiscal authority on or before the tenth day of each month following the month in which they were collected and received. At the time of each such monthly payment, the sheriff shall also furnish the county fiscal authority a detailed, itemized statement, under oath, of all such funds received during the preceding month. The statement shall show the respective amounts of money collected and the source thereof.
Sec. 4. - Personnel.
The sheriff shall have the authority to recommend to the governing authority of Pierce County the number of deputies and clerical personnel necessary for the operation of the sheriff's office and their compensation. The sheriff shall be empowered to employ the number of deputies and clerical personnel approved by the governing authority and to compensate them as provided by said governing authority. It shall be within the sole power and authority of the sheriff, during his term of office, to designate and name the persons who shall be employed, to prescribe their duties and assignments and to remove or replace such deputies and clerical personnel at will and within his sole discretion.
Sec. 4A. - Vehicles and equipment.
The sheriff shall recommend to the governing authority of Pierce County the number of vehicles and equipment necessary for the operation of the sheriff's office. The necessary vehicles and equipment shall be determined by the governing authority and shall be paid for with funds of Pierce County available for such purpose.
(1966 Ga. Laws (Act No. 193), page 2570, § 2; 1968 Ga. Laws (Act No. 884), page 2739; 1971 Ga. Laws (Act No. 201), page 2496, § 2; 1974 Ga. Laws (Act No. 792), page 2077, § 2)
Sec. 5. - Operating expenses.
The necessary operating expenses of the sheriff's office, expressly including the compensation of the sheriff, his full-time deputy, extra deputies, and clerical personnel, shall be paid from any funds of the county available for such purpose. All supplies, materials, furnishings, furniture, utilities, radio equipment, and the repair, replacement, and maintenance thereof as may be reasonably required in discharging the official duties of said office, shall be furnished by the county and shall be paid from any funds of the county available for such purpose.
Sec. 6. - Effective date.
The provisions of this Act shall become effective March 1, 1965.
Sec. 7. - General repeal.
All laws and parts of laws in conflict with this Act are hereby repealed.
