I. HOW TO USE YOUR CODE
This code is organized to make the laws of the city as accessible as possible to city officials, city employees and private citizens. Please take a moment to familiarize yourself with some of the important elements of this code.
Numbering System.
The numbering system is the backbone of a code of ordinances; Matthew Bender & Company, Inc. uses a unique and versatile numbering structure that allows for easy expansion and amendment of this code. It is based on three tiers, beginning with title, then chapter, and ending with section. Each part is represented in the code section number. For example, Section 2.04.010 is Section .010, in Chapter 2.04 of Title 2.
Title.
A title is a broad category under which ordinances on a related subject are compiled. This code contains about 15 to 20 titles. For example, the first title is Title 1, General Provisions, which may contain ordinances about the general penalty, code adoption and definitions. The titles in this code are separated by tabbed divider pages for quick reference. Some titles are Reserved for later use.
Chapter.
Chapters deal with more specific subjects, and are often derived from one ordinance. All of the chapters on a related subject are grouped in one title. The chapters are numbered so that new chapters which should logically be placed near certain existing chapters can be added at a later time without renumbering existing material. For example, Chapter 2.06, City Manager, can be added between 2.04, City Council, and Chapter 2.08, City Attorney.
Section.
Each section of the code contains substantive ordinance material. The sections are numbered by "tens" to allow for expansion of the code without renumbering.
Tables of Contents.
There are many tables of contents in this code to assist in locating specific information. At the beginning of the code is the main table of contents listing each title. In addition, each title and chapter has its own table of contents listing the chapters and sections, respectively.
Ordinance History Note.
At the end of each code section, you will find an "ordinance history note," which lists the underlying ordinances for that section. The ordinances are listed by number, section (if applicable) and year. (Example: (Ord. 272 ยง 1, 1992).) This note will be updated by Matthew Bender & Company, Inc. as each section is amended, with the most recent amendment added to the beginning. The notation "(part)" is used when the code section contains only part of the ordinance (or section of the ordinance) specified; this indicates that there are other areas of the code affected by the same ordinance (or section of the ordinance). If the code section was derived from an earlier codification, the last entry in the note indicates the old or "prior code" section number.
Statutory References.
The statutory references direct the code user to those portions of the state statutes that are applicable to the laws of the municipality. As the statutes are revised, these references will be updated by Matthew Bender & Company, Inc.
Cross-Reference Table.
When a code is based on an earlier codification, the cross-reference table will help users find older or "prior" code references in the new code. The cross-reference table is located near the end of the code, under the tabbed divider "Tables." This table lists the prior code section in the column labeled "Prior Code Section" and the new code section in the column labeled "Herein." This table will be updated as prior code sections are renumbered or repealed.
Ordinance List and Disposition Table.
To find a specific ordinance in the code, turn to the section called "Tables" for the Ordinance List and Disposition Table. This very useful table tells you the status of every ordinance reviewed by Matthew Bender & Company, Inc. The table is organized by ordinance number and provides a brief description and the disposition of the ordinance. If the ordinance is codified, the chapter (or chapters) will be indicated. (Example: (2.04, 6.12, 9.04).) If the ordinance is of a temporary nature or deals with subjects not normally codified, such as budgets, taxes, annexations or rezones, the disposition will be "(Special)." If the ordinance is for some reason omitted from the code, usually at the direction of the municipality, the disposition will be "(Not codified)." When an ordinance is repealed, the disposition will be changed by Matthew Bender & Company, Inc. to "(Repealed by Ord.)" with the appropriate ordinance number. Other dispositions sometimes used are "(Tabled)," "(Pending)," "(Number Not Used)" or "(Missing)."
Index.
If you're not certain where to look for a particular subject in this code, start with the index. This is an alphabetical multi-tier subject index which uses section numbers as the reference, and cross-references where necessary. Look for the main heading of the subject you need, then the appropriate subheadings:
BUSINESS LICENSE
See also BUSINESS TAX
Fee 5.04.030
Required when 5.04.010
The index will be updated as necessary when the code text is amended.
Insertion Guide.
Each supplement to the new code will be accompanied by an Insertion Guide. This guide will tell the code user the date of the most recent supplement and the last ordinance contained in that supplement. It will then list the pages that must be pulled from the code and the new pages that must be inserted. Following these instructions carefully will assure that the code is kept accurate and current.
Page Numbers.
When originally published, this code was numbered with consecutive page numbers. As it is amended, new material may require the insertion of new pages that are numbered with hyphens. (Example: 31, 32, 32-1.) Backs of pages that are blank (in codes that are printed double-sided) are left unnumbered but the number is "reserved" for later use.
Electronic Submission.
In the interests of accuracy and speed, we encourage you to submit your ordinances electronically if at all possible. We can accept most any file format, including Word, WordPerfect or text files. If you have a choice, we prefer Word, any version. You can send files to us as an e-mail attachment, by FTP, on a diskette or CD-ROM. Electronic files enable us not only to get you your code more quickly but also ensure that it is error-free. Our e-mail address is: ords@municode.com.
For hard copy, send two copies of all ordinances passed to:
Municipal Code Corporation
P.O. Box 2235
Tallahassee, FL 32316
Customer Service.
If you have any questions about this code or our services, please contact Municipal Code Corporation at 1-800-262-2633 or:
Municipal Code Corporation
1700 Capital Circle SW
Tallahassee, FL 32310
