METTER MUNICIPAL CODE 1997
modified
A Codification of the General Ordinances
of the City of Metter, Georgia
Beginning with Supp. No. 6,
Supplemented by Municipal Code Corporation
____________
OFFICIALS
of the
CITY OF METTER, GEORGIA
MAYOR
Edwin O. Boyd
Council Members
James McKie
Brandon Sikes
Chyrileen Kilcrease
Gregg Stewart
Rashida Taylor
City Manager     City Clerk
Carter Crawford       Angie Conner
City Attorney     Police Chief
Brent Carter       Robert Shore
Fire Chief     Building Inspector
Jason Douglas       Cliff Hendrix
Director of Tourism/Business Development
Heidi Jeffers
PREFACE
;sz=12q;The Metter Municipal Code, originally published by Book Publishing Company in 1997, has been kept current by regular supplementation by Matthew Bender & Company, Inc., its successor in interest.
During original codification, the ordinances were compiled, edited and indexed by the editorial staff of Book Publishing Company under the direction of Wanda Leverett, City Administrator.
Beginning with Supplement No. 6, Municipal Code Corporation will be keeping this code current by regular supplementation.
The code is organized by subject matter under an expandable three-factor decimal numbering system which is designed to facilitate supplementation without disturbing the numbering of existing provisions. Each section number designates, in sequence, the numbers of the title, chapter, and section. Thus, Section 2.12.010 is Section .010, located in Chapter 2.12 of Title 2. In most instances, sections are numbered by tens (.010, .020, .030, etc.), leaving nine vacant positions between original sections to accommodate future provisions. Similarly, chapters and titles are numbered to provide for internal expansion.
In parentheses following each section is a legislative history identifying the specific sources for the provisions of that section. This legislative history is complemented by a prior code cross-reference table, which sets out the location of individual sections of the prior code, and an ordinance disposition table, following the text of the code, listing by number all ordinances, their subjects, and where they appear in the codification.
A subject matter index, with complete cross-referencing, locates specific code provisions by individual sections numbers.
This supplement brings the code up to date through an ordinance passed October 14, 2019.
Municipal Code Corporation
1700 Capital Circle SW
Tallahassee, FL 32310
800-262-2633
