Chapter 15.12 - ELECTRICAL CODE
Sections:

15.12.010 - Adopted.
All electric construction, all material and all appliances used in connection with electrical work, and the operation of all electrical apparatus within the city, shall conform to the National Electrical Code, 1990 Edition, recommended by the National Fire Protection Association, which is adopted as the official electrical code of the city. A copy of such code is on file in the office of the city clerk.
(Ord. dated 3-25-92 (part): prior code § 7-60)
15.12.020 - Permit required.
No alteration shall be made in the wiring of any building for light, heat or power, or increase in the load carried by such wires, nor shall any building be wired for electric lights, motors or heating devices, without a written permit therefor from the building official.
(Prior code § 7-61)
15.12.030 - Failure to correct defects—Denial of permits—Forfeiture of license.
Any person who shall fail to correct any defects in his work, after having been duly notified for ten (10) days by the building official, shall not receive any further permit until such defect or defects have been corrected: and in any case in which any person shall continue to or persistently violate any ordinance of the city in regard to electrical affairs or the orders of the building official touching the same, the license of such person shall be forfeited.
(Prior code § 7-62)
15.12.040 - Inspection of wiring and appliances.
Upon the completion of the wiring of any building for light, heat or power, it shall be the duty of the company, firm or individual doing the same to notify the building official, who shall at once inspect such wiring and appliances, and if approved by him, he shall issue a certificate of satisfactory inspection, which shall contain the date of such inspection and an outline of the results of his examination, but no such certificate shall be issued unless such electric wiring and appliances are in strict conformity to the rules and regulations prescribed or required by this chapter, nor shall current be turned on at such installation until such certificate is issued.
(Prior code § 7-63)
15.12.050 - Electrical inspection fees.
The electrical inspection fees shall be set by city council and will be kept on file in the office of the city clerk.
(Ord. dated 5-12-97 (part): Ord. dated 9-20-93 (part): prior code §§ 7-64, 7-65)
15.12.060 - Right of entry.
The building official shall have the right in the discharge of his duties to enter any building, manhole or subway, or to climb any pole for the purpose of examining and testing the electrical appliances therein or thereon contained. And for that purpose he shall be given prompt access to all buildings, public and private, and to all manholes, subways or poles, on application to the individual or company owning or in charge of same.
(Prior code § 7-66)
15.12.070 - Removal of defective wire or appliance.
Whenever an electric wire or appliance shall be defective through improper or insufficient insulation, or for any other reason the building official shall at once cause the removal of such defect or defects at the expense of the owners of such wires or appliances.
(Prior code § 7-67)
15.12.080 - Poles and wires in streets.
It shall be the duty of the building official to so direct the placing of poles and wires in the streets, alleys and public places of the city that the same shall cause as little obstruction as possible, either to public travel on such thoroughfares or to the private use and enjoyment of adjacent property. It shall also be his duty, and he shall have authority, to compel the removal of unsafe or superfluous poles.
(Prior code § 7-68)
15.12.090 - Use of poles by city and utility companies.
On any poles of any electric light, power, telephone or telegraph company, used jointly by two or more such companies, each company shall be allotted a special zone and shall confine its wires to that zone. Spaces shall be measured from the tops of poles downward, and a suitable zone of every pole shall at all times be reserved for the free use of the city.
(Prior code § 7-69)
15.12.100 - Removal of poles.
No person owning or using a utility pole shall fail or refuse, after five days' notice from the building official, to remove any pole or poles deemed by him unsuitable, unsafe or improperly located, or the location of which he may require to be changed. The erection or use of any poles rejected or condemned by the building official is prohibited.
(Prior code § 7-70)
15.12.110 - Removal of wires for painting or repair of buildings.
Whenever builders or persons engaged in repairing, painting, etc., find it necessary to remove wires from buildings in prosecuting their work, the owner of such building or the contractor engaged thereon shall serve the building official with written notice twenty-four (24) hours before such contemplated work is begun, and the building official shall have authority in his discretion to direct the owners of such wires to remove the same.
(Prior code § 7-71)
15.12.120 - Removal of dead wires.
The building official shall cause all wires, except telephone wires, that have not been used for thirty (30) days, and which are known as dead wires, to be removed at once at the expense of the owners of such wires. All dead wires of telephone companies shall be detached from the buildings with which they have been connected.
(Prior code § 7-72)
15.12.130 - Discontinuance of electrical service.
In case of failure to comply with this chapter, the building official shall have the authority, after due notice, to cut lights or current in any locality concerned and to enforce discontinuance of the same until such requirements are complied with.
(Prior code § 7-73)
15.12.140 - Compliance with orders required.
No person shall fail, neglect or refuse to comply with any order of the building official given in pursuance of and by the authority of this chapter and the rules embraced therein.
(Prior code § 7-74)
