Chapter 2.28 - MUNICIPAL COURT
Sections:

2.28.010 - Record of cases.
A record of all cases heard in the municipal court for violation of this code or other municipal ordinances shall be kept in a suitable bound volume by the city clerk. Such record shall contain the name of the defendant, the nature of the offense charged, the final disposition of the case and the date of final disposition.
(Ord. dated 5-12-97 (part); prior code § 19-1)
2.28.020 - Service of summons.
Any person charged with violating any city ordinance shall receive notice by service of a summons as herein provided. Such summons may be issued by the city clerk, the building official or any police officer. The summons shall be directed to the accused and shall distinctly state the offense charged, the time and place, as far as practicable, of the offense charged and the day, hour and place of trial, requiring the accused to appear before the municipal court judge to answer the accusation made. Service of the summons shall be made by a police officer either by serving the accused personally or by leaving a copy at his place of abode, except that in the case of a summons issued for violation of laws or ordinances relating to the parking of motor vehicles, such summons may be directed to an unknown person as owner of an automobile designated in the summons and may be served upon such person by leaving a copy in or attached to such automobile.
(Amended during 1997 codification; prior code § 19-2)
2.28.030 - Subpoenas.
The city clerk may issue subpoenas for the appearance of witnesses necessary for the prosecution or for the defense in any case pending before the municipal court. All subpoenas shall be served in the same manner as a summons.
(Ord. dated 5-12-97 (part); prior code § 19-3)
2.28.040 - Failure to obey summons or subpoena.
Any person who fails to appear at the time and place set out in any summons or subpoena served upon him shall be guilty of contempt of court.
(Prior code § 19-4)
2.28.050 - Arrest and bond.
When a police officer has arrested any person for violation of any provision of this code or any other city ordinance and a trial cannot be had immediately, the officer may take a cash bond not exceeding the maximum fine for the offense—or a bond with a good security—for the appearance of such person before the municipal court judge. If such person fails or refuses to give a bond, the officer may confine him in the city jail until a trial can be held.
(Amended during 1997 codification; Ord. dated 5-12-97 (part); prior code § 19-5)
2.28.060 - Forfeiture of bond.
Upon the failure of a person to appear in the municipal court at the time and place fixed by the summons, the municipal court judge shall enter a judgment of forfeiture on any cash bond, or, in the case of a security bond, shall pass a rule requiring the principal and surety on such bond to show cause on the date named therein—which date shall not be less than ten (10) days from the passage of such ruling—why they should not be required to pay the amount of such bond. If no sufficient cause is shown, the municipal court judge shall enter judgment against the principal and surety for the amount of the forfeited bond and shall direct the city clerk to issue execution thereon.
(Amended during 1997 codification; Ord. dated 5-12-97 (part); prior code § 19-6)
2.28.070 - Malicious prosecution.
Whenever the municipal court judge, after a fair and full trial, is satisfied that any case was frivolously or maliciously prosecuted, he shall assess the prosecution with the court costs and such punitive damages as he deems appropriate.
(Amended during 1997 codification; prior code § 19-7)
2.28.080 - Collection of fines.
When directed by the municipal court judge, the city clerk shall issue executions for fines imposed by him including the costs which executions may be levied upon any goods or chattels, lands or tenements of the person so fined.
(Amended during 1997 codification; prior code § 19-8)
