Chapter 2.24 - POLICE DEPARTMENT
Sections:

2.24.010 - Chief of police—Bond.
The chief of police shall give such bond as may be fixed by the mayor and council. The bond so given shall be approved by the mayor; shall be payable to the mayor and council and their successors in office; and shall be conditioned for the faithful performance of his duties as chief of police and the proper accounting for and application of all funds of the city coming into his hands.
(Ord. dated 5-12-97 (part); prior code § 18-1)
2.24.020 - Chief of police—Oath.
Before entering upon the duties of his office the chief of police shall, in addition to the giving of the required bond, take and subscribe the following oath: "I do solemnly swear that I will faithfully and impartially perform the duties of the office of chief of police of the City of Metter, and account for and pay to the city treasurer all moneys belonging to the city that may come into my hands, and do all other acts required of me by the mayor and council of the City of Metter. So help me God."
(Prior code § 18-2)
2.24.030 - Chief of police—Powers and duties.
A.
It shall be the duty of the chief of police to perform all of the duties required of him by Section 3.16 of the Charter, and the various other sections thereof; also to preserve order and suppress all disorderly conduct in the city; to arrest all violators of any of the ordinances of the city, and all persons violating any of the penal laws of the state within the limits of the city; to confine all persons so arrested in the city or county jail, until they can be brought before the municipal court judge or some other judicial officer for trial, unless bond for their appearance approved by him shall be given; and in case of violation of the penal laws of this state within the city limits the chief of police shall immediately swear out a warrant before the municipal court judge or some other officer authorized to issue criminal warrants, giving the names of witnesses to be entered upon such warrant, and deliver such warrant to the sheriff of the county. Upon the failure of any person under bond for the violation of a city ordinance to appear as required by such bond, the chief of police shall forfeit same as provided by law, calling upon the principal to appear and calling upon the surety to produce his principal, and finally declaring the bond forfeited, after which it shall be collectible as provided by the laws of this state.
B.
It shall be the duty of the chief of police to execute all processes, serve all subpoenas or writs which may be necessary for the enforcement of the ordinances of the city when placed in his hands by the mayor or councilmen, or at their instance or request, or as provided by the Charter or ordinances of the city; he may also summon to his assistance such number of citizens as may at any time be necessary for the enforcement of the city ordinances or the preservation of peace and order within the city limits, and shall report to the mayor all who refuse to obey such summons; he shall at least one time during each week make a careful inspection of all of the streets, sidewalks, bridges and alleys of the city, and promptly thereafter report any dangerous defect found therein to the mayor.
C.
When instructed by the proper city official, it shall be the duty of the chief of police to collect all taxes due the city, where same are not paid to the city clerk, and he shall promptly deliver all funds to the city clerk.
D.
The chief of police shall have such powers as are necessary for the performance of the duties imposed upon him, including the right to enter houses and enclosures, so far as the mayor and council have authority to grant to him the right.
(Amended during 1997 codification; prior code §§ 18-3—18-5)
2.24.040 - Duties of officers.
It shall be the duty of the officers of the police department to acquire a full knowledge of and to enforce all of the ordinances of the city and all statutes applicable therein, to become familiar with the rules and regulations established by the police chief concerning the discipline, good order, proper conduct, care and management of the police department and to respect and obey all orders of the police chief not in conflict with the laws or ordinances of the city.
(Prior code § 18-6)
2.24.050 - Conduct of officers.
Every member of the police department shall conduct himself in a proper and lawabiding manner at all times and shall avoid the use of unnecessary force. Prohibited conduct shall include, but not be limited to, the following:
A.
Absence from regular hours of duty without permission;
B.
Sleeping on duty;
C.
Insubordination or disobedience of orders;
D.
Drinking any malt or intoxicating beverage while on duty or in uniform;
E.
Wilful maltreatment of any prisoner or other person;
F.
Using profane language;
G.
Giving out or releasing any information covering the affairs, business or operation of the police department without the consent of the police chief;
H.
Receiving or accepting a reward from any person for any services rendered in the line of duty;
I.
Accepting bribes of money, gifts or other articles of apparent or actual value, or accepting any fee, reward or gift of any kind from a person arrested or from any friend in his behalf while he is in custody or after his release or discharge; or
J.
Active participation in any political campaign to the neglect of his official duty.
(Prior code § 18-7)
2.24.060 - Police operations manual.
The most recent edition of the police operations manual is on file in the office of the city clerk. (Added during 1997 codification)
