Chapter 15.04 - GENERAL PROVISIONS
Sections:

15.04.010 - Definitions.
In the technical codes adopted in this title:
Wherever the word "municipality" is used it shall be held to mean the city of Metter.
Wherever the term "corporation counsel" is used it shall be held to mean the attorney for the city of Metter.
(Prior code § 7-2)
15.04.020 - Enforcement.
The codes adopted by the provisions of this title shall be enforced by the building official.
(Prior code § 7-3)
15.04.030 - Modifications.
The building official shall have power to modify any of the provisions of the codes adopted in this title upon application in writing by the owner or lessee, or his duly authorized agent, when there are practical difficulties in the way of carrying out the strict letter of the code, provided that the spirit of the code shall be observed, public safety secured and substantial justice done. The particulars of such modification when granted or allowed and the decision of the building official thereon shall be entered upon the records of the building official and a signed copy shall be furnished the applicant.
(Prior code § 7-4)
15.04.040 - Appeals.
Whenever the building official shall disapprove an application or refuse to grant a permit applied for, or when it is claimed that the provisions of a code adopted in this chapter do not apply or that the true intent and meaning of the code has been misconstrued or wrongly interpreted, the applicant may appeal from the decision of the building official to the mayor and council within thirty (30) days from the date of the decision appealed.
(Prior code § 7-5)
15.04.050 - Conflicts.
In the event of any conflict between the provisions of a code adopted in this title and applicable provisions of this code, state law or city ordinances, rules or regulations, the provisions of this code, state law or city ordinances, rules or regulations shall prevail and be controlling.
(Prior code § 7-6)
15.04.060 - Fence permit.
All persons desiring to erect any type of fence in the city shall first obtain a permit from the city clerk and pay the sum of five dollars ($5.00) for such permit.
(Prior code § 17-1)
