Chapter 13.24 - SERVICES OUTSIDE THE CITY—CONDITIONS
Sections:

13.24.010 - Definition.
"Utility service" means the city's water, sewage collection and disposal or solid waste collection and disposal systems or services, or any combination of same.
(Ord. 00-02 (part))
13.24.020 - Conditions.
A.
Water—Sewer. No water or sewer shall be furnished to property outside the city until the following items have been complied with and approved by the mayor and council:
1.
Approval of Preliminary Plans. Approval of preliminary plans for subdivision by the appropriate governmental authority which plan shall include the following:
a.
Water system including size of main;
b.
Sanitary sewer system including all trunk lines and lateral lines;
c.
Proposed street names;
d.
Type of street paving;
e.
Provision for adequate curbs and gutters;
f.
Installation of storm sewers where needed; and
g.
Proposed playground or park area; if any.
2.
Contract Required. Before any water or sewage utilities will be furnished to properties outside the city, it shall be necessary that the city and contractor enter into a contract relative to the accomplishment of the items heretofore outlined.
B.
Utilities.
1.
When a property owner requests utilities services to property not within the corporate limits of the city, at the discretion of the city, the owner will be required to:
a.
Petition for annexation (if any property is contiguous to the existing limits of the city) prior to commencement of construction of utility lines; or
b.
Execute a restrictive covenant consenting to annexation of such property into the city when the property becomes contiguous.
2.
When such property is not contiguous and execution of the covenant is required, the owner will also be required to submit a certificate of title to the city attorney's office to verify ownership of the property. The covenant will be recorded in the property records at the county courthouse and will stipulate that if the property becomes contiguous in the future and the property owner refuses to petition for annexation, the city will have the authority to terminate utility services.
3.
Construction of utility lines will not begin until the requirements of this chapter are met, which shall be indicated by authorization of the mayor.
(Ord. 00-02 (part))
