Chapter 13.20 - USER CHARGE SYSTEM
Sections:

13.20.010 - Definitions.
Unless the context specifically indicates otherwise, the meaning of terms in this chapter shall be as follows:
"Act" means the Federal Water Pollution Control Act, also known as PL 92-500 as amended.
"BOD 5 (biochemical oxygen demand)" means the quantity of oxygen utilized in the biochemical oxidation of organic matter under standard laboratory conditions in five days at twenty (20) degrees Celsius expressed in milligrams per liter (mg/l).
"Domestic strength wastes" means any wastes which have an average daily concentration not exceeding three hundred (300) milligrams per liter biochemical oxygen demand or three hundred fifty (350) milligrams per liter of suspended solids.
"EPA user charge" means that portion of the total sewer bill which is attributable to the implementation of the EPA user charge system. Such rates include collection of operation, maintenance and replacement expenses as defined in this section.
"Operation, maintenance and replacement costs" means the costs associated with keeping the treatment works in good repair and at design specifications. This includes labor, supplies, utilities, chemicals, billing, administration, and general expenses including installation and/or repair of equipment, accessories, or appurtenances necessary during the service life of the treatment works.
"Over-strength wastes" means any wastewater discharged into the treatment works which exceeds a biochemical oxygen demand of three hundred (300) milligrams per liter or a suspended solid of three hundred fifty (350) milligrams per liter.
"SS (suspended solids)" means solids that either float on the surface or are in suspension in water, sewage, or other liquid and which are removable by laboratory filtering.
"Toxic pollutant" means any discharge into the treatment works which interferes with the normal biological process of the treatment works or in some way reduces the efficiency of the treatment works or causes special procedures to be necessary to properly dispose of either effluent or sludge produced by the treatment works so that the cost of such disposal is increased.
"User" means any person, business, corporation or other entity which discharges wastes into the treatment works continuously or occasionally. A wastewater customer is a user, but a user does not necessarily have to be a wastewater customer.
"Wastewater customer" means any residence, business, industry, school, or other building tied into and receiving services from the treatment works and receiving periodic billing thereof.
(Prior code ยง 23-76)
13.20.020 - EPA user charge system.
A.
The EPA user charge system shall result in the calculation of three unit charges:
1.
An administrative charge to be calculated based on the administration costs and the number of wastewater customers to be assessed on a per-meter basis;
2.
An operation, maintenance and replacement fee calculated based on the volume of wastewater used by wastewater customers and the total operation maintenance and replacement costs incurred by the city to be assessed on a per thousand gallons of water basis; and
3.
A surcharge rate to be applied to all over-strength wastes to be based on the strength and volume of such wastes and the cost of treatment.
The specific calculation of these charges for the city is attached to the ordinance codified in this chapter and is on file in the office of the city clerk.
B.
Any user which discharges any toxic pollutants which cause an increase in the cost of managing the effluent or sludge of the treatment works shall be required to pay for all such costs.
C.
The city shall review not less often than every two years the wastewater contribution of users, the total costs of operation and maintenance of the treatment works, and the approved user charge system. The city shall revise the charges for customers to accomplish the following:
1.
Maintain the proportionate distribution of operation and maintenance costs among users;
2.
Generate sufficient funds to pay the total operation and maintenance costs necessary to proper operation and maintenance (including minor replacement) of the treatment works; and
3.
Apply excess revenues collected to adjust future rates accordingly.
D.
The city will notify each user at least annually in conjunction with a regular bill or other mailing, of the rate attributable to the user charge system.
E.
The user charge system shall take precedence over any terms or conditions or contracts between the city and users which are inconsistent with the requirements of Section 204(b)-(1)(A) of the Act and 40 CFR Part 35, dated September 27, 1978.
(Prior code ยง 23-77)
13.20.030 - EPA user charge rates.
The EPA user charge, which includes charges for operation, maintenance, and replacement expenses, will be assessed for all contributions to the treatment works. These rates will be established by resolution of city council and will be on file in the city clerk's office.
(Amended during 1997 codification: prior code ยง 23-78, 23-79)
