ARTICLE IV. - ESTABLISHMENT OF DISTRICTS

Sec. 40. - Division of the City of Kingsland into districts.
For the purpose of this Ordinance, the City of Kingsland, Georgia is divided into the following districts:
R-1—Single-Family Residential District
R-2—Low Density Residential District
R-3—Medium & High Density Residential District
R-4—Single-Family - Mobile Home
R-5—Mobile Home Park
R-6—Single-Family Large Tract Residential
R-7—Townhouse Residential District
C-1—Central Business District (CBD)
C-2—Commercial District
C-3—Unused - merged with C-2
C-4—Interchange Commercial
C-5—Neighborhood Commercial
C-PLMU—Commercial-Planned Large Multi-Use District
MU—Mixed Use
I-L—Wholesale and Light Industrial District
I-G—General Industrial District
FT—Forest Transition
FH—Flood Hazard District
DD—Downtown Development District
PD—Planned Unit Development
(Amend. of 7-23-2007; Ord. No. 2009-3, 4-27-2009; Ord. No. 2017-09 , 10-23-2017)
Sec. 41. - Incorporation of the official zoning district map.
The location and boundaries of zoning districts shall be shown on a map entitled "Official Zoning District Map of Kingsland, Georgia", hereinafter called Official Zoning District Map with all explanatory matter, references and other information shown thereon is hereby incorporated into and adopted as a part of this Ordinance and shall be as much a part of this Ordinance as if all the matter herein. The Official Zoning District Map shall be signed by the Mayor and be attested by the City Clerk. The Official Zoning District Map shall be made a public record and shall be kept permanently in the office of the Director of Community Planning and Development, where said map will be accessible to the general public.
Sec. 42. - Zoning decision.
Zoning decision means final legislative action by City Council which results in:
42.1 The adoption or repeal of a zoning ordinance;
42.2 The adoption of an amendment to this Zoning and Land Development Ordinance which changes the text of this Ordinance;
42.3 The adoption or denial of an amendment to the Zoning and Land Development Ordinance to rezone property from one zoning classification to another;
42.4 The adoption or denial of an amendment to the Zoning and Land Development to zone property to be annexed into the City of Kingsland;
42.5 The grant or denial of a permit relating to a special use of property; or
42.6 The grant or denial of a variance or conditions concurrent and in conjunction with a decision pursuant to subsections 42.3 or 42.5 of this section.
( Ord. (2) of 11-14-2022 )
Sec. 43. - Zoning map.
If, in accordance with provisions of this Zoning and Land Development Ordinance, changes are made in the district boundaries or other information portrayed in the Official Zoning District Map, changes shall be made on the Official Zoning District Map promptly after the zoning decision has been approved by the council, together with a numerical entry on the Official Zoning District Map referring to the application on file which states the date of the official action and the brief description of the nature of the changes.
(Ord. No. 2019-01 , 1-14-2019)
Sec. 44. - Rules for determining boundaries.
Where uncertainty exists with respect to the boundaries of any of the aforesaid districts as shown on the Official Zoning District Map, the following rules shall apply:
44.1 Unless otherwise indicated, the district boundaries are indicated as approximately following property lines, centerlines of streets, highways, alleys or railroads, shorelines of streams, reservoirs or other bodies of water, or civil boundaries, and they shall be construed to follow such lines.
44.2 Where district boundaries are approximately parallel to the centerlines of streets, highways or railroads, or right-of-way of the same, or the centerlines of streams, reservoirs, or other bodies of water, or said lines extended such district, boundaries shall be construed as being parallel thereto and at such distance there from as indicated on the Official Zoning District Map. If no distance is given, such dimensions shall be determined by the use of the scale shown on the Official Zoning District Map.
44.3. Where a district boundary line as appearing on the Official Zoning District Map decides a lot which is single ownership at the time of this enactment, the use classification of a larger portion may be extended to the remainder by the Council without recourse to amendment procedure.
44.4. Where a public road, street or alley is officially vacated or abandoned, the regulations applicable to the property to which it is revered shall apply to such vacated or abandoned road, street or alley.
44.5. In case the exact location of a boundary cannot be determined by the foregoing methods, the Council shall, upon application, determine the location of the boundary.
(Amend. of 7-23-2007)
