ARTICLE III. - OFFICERS AND EMPLOYEES[3]
Footnotes:
--- (3) ---
Editor's note— The city's retirement plan and its personnel rules and regulations are compiled and printed by the city. Official copies are on file in the city clerk's office, where they are available for reference during normal business hours.
Cross reference— Any ordinance fixing the salary of any city officer or employee saved from repeal, § 1-4(4); police, Ch. 16.
State Law reference— City's power to define, regulate and alter the powers, duties, qualifications, compensation and tenure of all municipal officers, agents and employees, O.C.G.A. § 36-32-2(2).

DIVISION 1. - GENERALLY

Sec. 2-66. - At-will employees.
All employees of the City of Kingsland are at-will employees under Georgia Law and may be terminated for any or no reason. An at-will employee has no legitimate claim or entitlement to continued employment.
(Ord. No. 2007-05, 4-9-2007)
Sec. 2-67. - Personnel policy.
(a)
Rules and regulation covering city employees on such subjects as employment policy, employee benefits, holidays, leave of absence, travel, employee appraisal and drug free work place are contained in the City of Kingsland's personnel policies and procedures manual, which is compiled and published by the City of Kingsland. An official copy of the manual is on file in the office of the city clerk, entitled "Employee Handbook and Guidelines"; and
(b)
In the event, any provisions of the "Employee Handbook and Guidelines" conflicts or is inconsistent with this article, article III shall be controlling.
(Ord. No. 2007-05, 4-9-2007)
Secs. 2-68—2-75. - Reserved.
DIVISION 2. - CITY ATTORNEY

Sec. 2-76. - Office established.
The office of the city attorney is hereby established as an agency of the city. The office shall be composed of the city attorney and any other assistants, investigators, other employees or special counsel as may be necessary. The supervision and control of the agency is vested in the city attorney.
Sec. 2-77. - Operating regulations for attorney's office.
(a)
The city attorney may propose written regulations, or amendments thereto, to organize and operate the office of the city attorney in the most efficient manner reasonably possible, consistent with the Charter and ordinances of the city.
(b)
These regulations shall become effective only after approval by the council and after being filed with the clerk of council, unless disapproved within 15 days of such filing by motion of the city council.
(c)
The council may, by resolution, amend the regulations at any time.
(d)
Violation of the regulations may be grounds for reprimand, demotion, suspension or discharge.
(e)
Each officer and employee of the city attorney's office shall be furnished a copy of these regulations.
Sec. 2-78. - Powers and duties.
The city attorney shall be the legal advisor and representative of the city and shall:
(1)
Advise the mayor, the city council, the chief administrative officer or any city agency head upon all legal questions arising in the conduct of city business;
(2)
Prepare or revise ordinances when so requested by the mayor or city council or any committee thereof, review the Code of Ordinances of the city and assist in maintaining an up-to-date code, properly indexed;
(3)
Give his official opinion upon any legal matter or question submitted by the mayor or city council;
(4)
Attend any city council meeting upon request of the council for the purpose of giving any legal advice required by its members;
(5)
Prepare for execution all contracts and instruments to which the city is a party when so requested, and approve as to form all bonds and city contracts;
(6)
Defend any and all suits and actions at law or equity brought against the city, unless otherwise directed by resolution of the city council;
(7)
Prepare and file any civil suit or action at law or equity to secure or protect the city's best interests, when so ordered by a resolution of the city council;
(8)
Make a report to the mayor and the city council on the outcome of any litigation in which the city has a direct interest;
(9)
Keep complete and accurate records of the following, which records shall remain the property of the city:
a.
All suits in which the city had or has an interest, giving the names of the parties, the nature of the action, the disposition of the case or its status, if pending, and the briefs of counsel; and
b.
All written opinions prepared by the city attorney and all certificates or abstracts of titles furnished by the city attorney to the city, or any department or official thereof; and
(10)
Render any other legal services as may be required.
Secs. 2-79—2-95. - Reserved.
