Chapter 23 - VEHICLES FOR HIRE[1]
Footnotes:
--- (1) ---
Cross reference— Licenses and business regulations, Ch. 11; offenses and miscellaneous provisions, Ch. 15; streets and sidewalks, Ch. 19; traffic and motor vehicles, Ch. 21.
State Law reference— Reciprocal agreements as to operation of vehicles registered in other states inapplicable to motor vehicles for hire, O.C.G.A. § 40-2-95.

ARTICLE I. - IN GENERAL

Secs. 23-1—23-25. - Reserved.
ARTICLE II. - TAXICABS
DIVISION 1. - GENERALLY

Sec. 23-26. - Definitions.
The following words, terms and phrases, when used in this article, shall have the meanings ascribed to them in this section, except where the context clearly indicates a different meaning:
Callbox stand means a place alongside a street or elsewhere where the city has authorized a holder of a certificate of public convenience and necessity to install a telephone or callbox for the taking of calls and the dispatching of taxicabs.
Certificate means a business license issued by the city authorizing the holder thereof to conduct a taxicab business in the city.
Cruising means the driving of a taxicab on the streets, alleys or public places of the city in search of or soliciting prospective passengers for hire.
Holder means a person to whom a business license has been issued under this article.
Manifest means a daily record prepared by a taxicab driver of all trips made by the driver, showing time and place of origin, destination, number of passengers and the amount of fare of each trip.
Open stand means a public place alongside the curb of a street or elsewhere in the city which has been designated by the city as reserved exclusively for the use of taxicabs.
Rate card means a card issued by the city for display in each taxicab, which contains the rates of fare then in force.
Taxicab means a motor vehicle regularly engaged in the business of carrying passengers for hire, having a seating capacity of less than ten persons and not operated on a fixed route. The term "taxicab" means and includes the term "public vehicle."
Taximeter means an instrument used in a vehicle for automatically showing the fare due.
(Ord. No. 1988-6, §§ 1—3, 11-14-88; Ord. No. 2002-19, 12-23-2002)
Cross reference— Definitions and rules of construction generally, § 1-2.
Sec. 23-27. - Penalty for violation of article.
Any person violating any of the provisions of this article shall be deemed guilty of a misdemeanor, and upon conviction thereof shall be fined an amount not exceeding $100.00.
(Ord. No. 1988-6, § 23, 11-14-88)
Sec. 23-28. - Driver's license required.
It shall be unlawful for any person to drive or operate a public vehicle in the city without having first obtained a professional driver's license as required by the state.
(Ord. No. 1988-6, § 16, 11-14-88)
Sec. 23-29. - Employment of unlicensed drivers.
It shall be unlawful for the holder of any license issued under this article to permit any vehicle operating pursuant thereto to be driven or operated by any person who is not the holder of a professional driver's license issued by the state.
(Ord. No. 1988-6, § 6, 11-14-88)
Sec. 23-30. - Inspection of vehicles.
(a)
Every vehicle operated by a license holder under this article shall be inspected twice each year, at six-month intervals, by a certified auto mechanic, to determine the safety and fitness thereof for the service contemplated. Each driver of any taxicab shall at all times carry in such vehicle evidence of the results of the inspection, which he shall exhibit to any police officer of the city upon demand.
(b)
Whenever it shall appear to the police department that the public vehicle covered by a license is not in good and sufficient mechanical condition, or has not such appliances attached thereto in good condition as are required by the laws of the state relating to motor vehicles, then the city may order such public vehicle withdrawn from service until the vehicle is placed in such condition as meets the requirements of this section.
(Ord. No. 1988-6, §§ 21, 22, 11-14-88; Ord. No. 2007-03A, 2-12-2007)
Sec. 23-31. - Failure to display license.
It shall be unlawful for the operator of any public vehicle to fail to have the license issued under the provisions of this article attached to the motor vehicle in plain view as required by section 23-64.
(Ord. No. 1988-6, § 17(b), 11-14-88)
Sec. 23-32. - Posting of rates.
There shall be posted in every vehicle for which a license is issued under this article, in full view of the passengers thereof, in plain conspicuous letters, the schedule of rates, charges and fares as required in this article and as set forth in the application for the license, which shall be binding upon the operator of the vehicle. Any collection of rates, fares or charges in excess thereof shall be unlawful.
(Ord. No. 1988-6, § 19, 11-14-88)
Sec. 23-33. - Solicitation of passengers.
No public vehicle, while awaiting employment by passengers, shall stand on any public street or place other than at or upon a public vehicle stand designated or established by order of the chief of police and suitably marked by signs to appropriately designate the location thereof. The driver of any such vehicle shall not seek employment by repeatedly and persistently driving his vehicle to and from a short space before or by otherwise interfering with the proper and orderly access to and egress from any theater, hall, building, public resort or public gathering. Any driver may solicit employment by driving through any public street or place without stops, other than those due to obstruction of traffic, and may pass and repass before any theater, hall, public building or resort or any place of public gathering, provided that, after passing such place, he shall not turn and repass until he shall have gone a distance of two blocks upon the streets and highways of the city. No person shall solicit passengers for a public vehicle except from the driver's seat when sitting in his vehicle, and the solicitation of passengers by word of mouth or by any motion of the hands or feet is prohibited.
(Ord. No. 1988-6, § 20, 11-14-88)
Sec. 23-34. - Report of accidents.
Every driver of a public vehicle shall immediately report fully in writing to the chief of police the time, place, cause and circumstances of any accident or injury to a passenger, person or property in which the public vehicle is involved.
(Ord. No. 1988-6, § 18, 11-14-88)
Sec. 23-35. - Disposition of articles left in vehicle.
Every article left in a public vehicle by a passenger shall be delivered and deposited at the city hall within 12 hours after the article is found by the driver or operator of such public vehicle.
(Ord. No. 1988-6, § 18, 11-14-88)
Sec. 23-36. - Vehicle to be stopped while collecting fares or accepting or discharging passengers.
It shall be unlawful for the operator of any public vehicle to collect fares, make change or take on or discharge passengers while such public vehicle is in motion.
(Ord. No. 1988-6, § 17(a), 11-14-88)
Sec. 23-37. - Taximeters.
If a flat rate structure is utilized, all vehicles for hire shall have affixed in a conspicuous place a taximeter in operating condition. The face of the taximeter shall be visible from the passenger compartment of every taxicab at all times. After sundown, the taximeter shall be illuminated by a suitable light so arranged as to throw a continuous steady light on the meter.
(Ord. No. 2002-19, 12-23-2002; Ord. No. 2007-03A, 2-12-2007)
Sec. 23-38. - Signs and identification.
All taxicabs or vehicles for hire shall have a total of three signs on the vehicle at all times while in operation. Two of the signs shall be 18 inches x 12 inches located on the driver side door and the passenger side door and shall have the following information listed on the sign face:
(1)
Name of the business
(2)
Telephone number
(3)
Location of business
(4)
Fares for service
The third sign shall be placed on the back of the bumper or trunk. This sign shall measure 30 inches x four inches. The following information shall be listed on this sign:
(1)
Name of business
(2)
Telephone number
(Ord. No. 2002-19, 12-23-2002)
Sec. 23-39. - Background checks.
All drivers shall have a criminal background check complete with fingerprinting and be issued a city certificate before hauling any passengers. The fee for this service shall be the prevailing fee charged by the Georgia Bureau of Investigation. Certificates shall only be issued to persons who have:
(1)
Not been convicted of a felony unless five years have elapsed since the completion of the felony sentence;
(2)
Not have been convicted of, entered a plea of nolo contendere to, or forfeited a bond in lieu of, any sexual or other crime of moral turpitude within the past five years immediately prior to the application for a taxicab driver permit;
(3)
Not have been classified as a habitual offended by the state department of public safety or any similar department of another state or of the United States for the five years immediately prior to the application for a taxicab driver permit.
(Ord. No. 2007-03A, 2-12-2007)
Secs. 23-40—23-55. - Reserved.
DIVISION 2. - BUSINESS LICENSE

Sec. 23-56. - Required.
Before any person shall be entitled to operate any public vehicle under the provisions of this article, he shall have first obtained a business license from the city showing that the present or future public convenience or necessity requires or will require such operations.
(Ord. No. 1988-6, § 8, 11-14-88)
Sec. 23-57. - Application.
(a)
All applications for a business license under this division must be prepared in writing and sworn to and filed personally by the applicant if a natural person, and by an officer of the corporation, if a corporation, with the city clerk. After a business license is once issued, it shall then not be necessary for such applicant to reapply for such license unless the license has been revoked by the city as provided in this division. The application shall specify the following matters:
(1)
The name, age, residence and business address of the applicant, if the applicant is a natural person; if a corporation, its name, date of incorporation and the names of its officers and directors and their place of business; or, if a partnership or association, the names of the partners or persons composing the association, with the residence and business address of each partner or member of the association.
(2)
The particular class of vehicles which the applicant proposes to operate.
(3)
A schedule of the rates, fares and charges and a time schedule for the service proposed under the license.
(b)
Applications for licenses may be filed at any time, in writing, with the city clerk. The application shall be verified by oath as to the truth of the statements therein contained, by the person making such application if the applicant is a natural person, by the officers of the corporation if the applicant is a corporation, and by a partner or member of the partnership or association if the applicant is a partnership or association. Such application shall set forth the following facts:
(1)
That the application is made out in the name of the person, corporation, partnership or association.
(2)
That all other things that are set out in the application for the business license are factual and that the applicant is the bona fide owner of the vehicles therein described.
(Ord. No. 1988-6, §§ 4, 11, 11-14-88)
Sec. 23-58. - Liability insurance.
No license for the operation of any taxi service shall be issued unless the holder of the license under which the service is allowed shall have first procured and filed with the city clerk a liability policy issued by a solvent insurance company authorized to write liability insurance in the state and the possessor of a certificate duly issued by the state treasurer, in an amount that is in accordance with all state laws and regulations which are applicable to the operation of taxi service. The policy shall include an endorsement to the effect that the policy cannot be cancelled for any cause without notice of such cancellation being served upon the city clerk at least 15 days prior to the date of such cancellation. The policy shall be in the generally accepted form in use in this state for liability insurance providing for public liability policies, and shall further provide that the insolvency or bankruptcy of the insured shall not relieve the company from the payment of damages for injuries or death sustained or loss occasioned within the provisions of the policy, and that the prepayment of any judgment that may be recovered against the insured upon any claim covered by the policy shall not be a condition precedent to any right of action against the company upon the policy, but that the company shall be bound to the extent of its liability under the policy and shall pay and satisfy such judgment, and that an action may be maintained upon such judgment by the injured person or his heirs or personal representatives, as the case may be, to enforce the liability of the company as therein set forth.
(Ord. No. 1988-6, § 9, 11-14-88)
Sec. 23-59. - Bond.
The city council may, in its discretion, require the applicant for any business license under this division to deposit and have on file with the city a bond in such amount and upon such conditions as the city deems reasonable and proper to ensure the continued maintenance and operation of the rates, fares and services deemed necessary and proper from the issuance of any such business license.
(Ord. No. 1988-6, § 10, 11-14-88)
Sec. 23-60. - Issuance.
When the requirements set forth in this division have been complied with, the city clerk shall promptly consider the application for a license, and if all precedent qualifications have been met and the applicant is properly insured according to the provisions of this division, he shall cause the license applied for to be issued.
(Ord. No. 1988-6, § 12, 11-14-88)
Sec. 23-61. - Contents.
Each business license issued under the provisions of this division shall contain the matters set forth in the application for such license, as well as such additional provisions and limitations as the city shall deem necessary and proper.
(Ord. No. 1988-6, § 5, 11-14-88)
Sec. 23-62. - Transfer.
No license issued under the provisions of this division may be assigned or transferred.
(Ord. No. 1988-6, § 5, 11-14-88)
Sec. 23-63. - Numbering and filing of licenses.
Each license issued by the city under this division shall be numbered in numerical order by the city clerk, who shall also make duplicates thereof and have the duplicates signed by the person in whose name the license is issued or his agent and file the duplicate in the records of the city.
(Ord. No. 1988-6, § 13, 11-14-88)
Sec. 23-64. - Posting.
Upon issuance of a license under this division, a duplicate thereof shall be securely placed in the vehicle for which issued, and shall be kept in plain view of the passengers riding therein and shall not be transferred to any other person or vehicle.
(Ord. No. 1988-6, § 13, 11-14-88)
Sec. 23-65. - Suspension or revocation.
(a)
The city council may at any time for good cause shown, after due notice and an opportunity to be heard has been given to the grantee of the license, suspend, alter, revoke or amend any license granted under the provisions of this division.
(b)
Any suspension or revocation of a license shall require immediate discontinuance of service until such revocation or suspension is removed by the city.
(c)
Upon the suspension or revocation of the license issued, as provided in subsection (a) of this section, the holder of such license shall surrender the license to the city clerk upon demand therefor.
(Ord. No. 1988-6, §§ 7, 14, 15, 11-14-88)
Secs. 23-66—23-100. - Reserved.
ARTICLE III. - WRECKER SERVICES

Sec. 23-101. - Short title.
This article shall be known and may be cited as "The City of Kingsland Wrecker Ordinance."
(Ord. No. 2005-16, 11-28-2005)
Sec. 23-102. - Purpose.
The purpose of this article is to regulate certain types of businesses generally known as and defined herein as wrecker services. To that end this article has been enacted in the interests of:
(1)
Promoting the protection of the citizens of the city and surrounding areas;
(2)
Promoting the protection of the wrecker when towing a wrecked or disabled vehicle for a fee;
(3)
Promoting the integrity of the wrecker company, his/her employees;
(4)
Ensuring fair dealings between all entities; and
(5)
Establishment of the City of Kingsland Police Department wrecker rotational call list.
(Ord. No. 2005-16, 11-28-2005)
Sec. 23-103. - Definitions.
As used herein, the following words or phrases shall have the following meanings:
Car carrier. Any device for the transferring of automobiles utilizing a flatbed truck.
Heavy duty wrecker. A wrecker with at least 25,000 pounds minimum G.V.W. rating equipped with a 16 to 25 ton P.T. mechanically driven power winch, crane and boom having dual wheels.
Light duty wrecker. A wrecker with at least 10,000 pounds minimum G.V.W. rating equipped with an 8,000 pound P.T. mechanically driven power winch, crane and boom having dual wheels.
Operator. Person owning the wrecker service and the wrecker service's agents and employees.
Place of business. Defined as a structure maintained within the city limits of the city that is open to the public during normal business hours and manned by personnel.
Wrecker. An automotive vehicle for hire equipped with hoisting apparatus and other equipment for towing wrecked automobiles or other vehicles. The term "wrecker" shall also include any other vehicle for hire which is equipped and used for the purpose of towing wrecked or disabled automobiles or other type vehicles.
Wrecker service. Any person who on a regular basis holds itself out to the general public in the city as being engaged solely or partially in the business of towing wrecked or disabled vehicles for a fee.
(Ord. No. 2005-16, 11-28-2005)
Sec. 23-104. - Application.
It shall be unlawful for any wrecker service to operate in the city without first registering with the police department. All vehicles shall be registered with the police department upon a form to be provided by the police department. Registration with the police department shall be done before the issuance of any city business license. Potential applicants must submit to and successfully pass a background investigation conducted by the Kingsland Police Department. The registration shall contain a minimum of the following information:
(1)
Full name, address and phone number of applicant.
(2)
The name of the wrecker service, address and phone number of same.
(3)
The permit number issued to the wrecker service by the Georgia Department of Motor Vehicle Safety and a copy of permit attached to the application.
(4)
The city business license application.
(5)
The number of wreckers owned by the wrecker service.
(6)
The name of the insurance company and policy number with expiration date providing insurance to the wrecker service with a copy of same attached to the application.
(7)
The type(s) of wreckers provided for service.
(8)
A copy of the wrecker service's permit to operate emergency lights attached to the application.
A registration shall not be assignable to any other person or other entity without the prior approval of the police department.
(Ord. No. 2005-16, 11-28-2005)
Sec. 23-105. - Safety vest requirement.
All wrecker operators and their several assistants are each required to wear an outermost safety vest of no less than 200 square inches front and back in a color variously known as flame orange, hunter orange, or iridescent blazed orange. This safety vest must be worn at all times while supplying or participating in any wrecker services on any public street or public right-of-way.
(Ord. No. 2005-16, 11-28-2005)
Sec. 23-106. - Required information to be printed on side of vehicle.
It shall be unlawful for any wrecker to use or operate upon any of the streets, roadways, or bridges in the city unless such vehicle has in plain view the following information: the name of the business operating the wrecker service; address of the business; the current emergency light permit number. Temporary or removable magnetic signs will not be issued.
(Ord. No. 2005-16, 11-28-2005)
Sec. 23-107. - Monitoring police calls; unauthorized soliciting of business.
Wrecker service operators shall not monitor the county sheriff's department or local police department radio transmissions for the purpose of soliciting business at the scene of an accident, and no employee of the police department shall solicit business for any wrecker service.
(Ord. No. 2005-16, 11-28-2005)
Sec. 23-108. - Records.
Each wrecker service shall maintain a list of all vehicles towed and stored. This list shall contain information as to the make, model, year, color, VIN number, name of owner, and purpose for towing, removing, and storing the vehicle. Records shall be made available to the police department during regular business hours.
(Ord. No. 2005-16, 11-28-2005)
Sec. 23-109. - Rotational call list—Established.
The police department will maintain a rotational call list of qualified wrecker services who meet the requirements of this article. All calls shall be on a rotational basis by name of the wrecker service; provided, however that the owner of the vehicle does not designate the wrecker service he prefers. If so, it will be the responsibility of the investigating officer to inform the police communications center of the request. The 911 center will notify the wrecker services of special requests or if on a rotational call basis. Any wrecker service not on the rotational call list shall not be called by the police communications center nor allowed to tow a wrecked vehicle from the scene of an accident or a police impoundment. If a wrecker service on the rotational call list is requested by the owner in possession of a vehicle, the answer of the request by a wrecker service will not be construed as interrupting that wrecker service's normal rotational position on the rotational call list.
(Ord. No. 2005-16, 11-28-2005)
Sec. 23-110. - Inventory of towed vehicles.
Kingsland Police Department officers will adhere to department's policy of inventory of a vehicle. Upon completion of the inventory, the wrecker driver shall sign the inventory form in the presence of the officer. Upon completion, the wrecker driver will receive a copy of the inventory. The wrecker services company will then assume full responsibility for the vehicle and its contents.
(Ord. No. 2005-16, 11-28-2005)
Sec. 23-111. - Police department to be notified.
All wrecker services who are on the city's rotational call list will notify the department of any vehicles that have been in storage for a period of five days or longer.
(Ord. No. 2005-16, 11-28-2005)
Sec. 23-112. - Qualifications.
In order for any wrecker service to be placed on the rotational call list, and be licensed under the provisions of this article, each wrecker service must comply with the following qualifications, standards and requirements of the article at all times:
(1)
All wreckers must be registered with the Georgia Department of Motor Vehicle Safety.
(2)
All wrecker services must have on file in the Kingsland Police Department, a current copy of their identification stamp, with the valid year; a registration permit issued by the Georgia Department of Motor Vehicle Safety.
(3)
The wrecker service shall have at least one light duty or one heavy duty wrecker in lawfully operational condition at all times to remain on the active rotation list. Each wrecker service shall immediately notify the 911 dispatch center whenever the wrecker service does not have a wrecker immediately available for a rotational call. A lack of prior notification by the wrecker service will be considered a rotation refusal.
(4)
Each wrecker shall carry at all times when in service or use, a full complement of service items to include a fire extinguisher, chains, dollies, proper emergency reflectors, and other equipment needed for lifting, extricating, or righting wrecked vehicles and the removal of such vehicles by towing or carting. In addition, each wrecker shall be equipped with a broom, shovel and other equipment to clear traveled portions of the roadway.
(5)
The wrecker service shall maintain and have access to a secured, fenced storage area for vehicles. The fence shall have a minimum height of not less than five feet, surrounding the perimeter of the storage area. Storage lots shall have sufficient night lighting. There shall be posted at the entrance to the parking area, a sign, the minimum size of which shall be 24 inches by 24 inches, painted white background with red letters, stating the towing charges, the storage rate per day and any additional information pertinent to the storage of vehicles.
(6)
The wrecker service shall be available on a 24 hour seven day basis and have at least one wrecker driver on call at all times. The driver shall also be qualified under the state service commission rules and regulations.
(7)
The wrecker service shall maintain in full force and effect at all times the following types and amounts of insurance:
a.
Bodily injury: $300,000.00 per person; $500,000.00 per accident.
b.
Property damage: $50,000.00 per person; $100,000.00 per accident.
All wrecker services shall furnish the police department with proof of such insurance.
(8)
Each wrecker must be equipped with at least two amber lights mounted on the highest point on vehicle, along with proof of certification to operate emergency lights as per DPS standards.
(9)
All wreckers must have painted or stenciled the permit number, issued by the Georgia Department of Motor Vehicle Safety, on both sides of the cab or body, along with the wrecker service name and address.
(10)
The wrecker service shall accept only those rotation calls from the police department which can be answered by arrival on the scene by that wrecker service within 20 minutes.
a.
Lack of an immediately affirmative answer (i.e. answering machine, no answer at all, etc.) shall be deemed to be a rotation refusal resulting in loss of the rotational call.
b.
A verbal refusal of a rotational call, for any reason, will result in the loss of that rotational call plus the next rotational call.
c.
With the lack of a rotational response from the rotation list, any next available wrecker may be called by the 911 dispatch center to service the request.
d.
Three or more refusals within a 60-day time period may result in the wrecker service being removed from the rotational list.
(11)
All wrecker drivers called to the scene of an accident shall be responsible for the cleanup of all debris caused by the accident. If two or more wreckers are called, both operators shall be equally responsible for the cleanup.
(12)
All wrecker drivers will possess the correct class driver's license that pertains to the type of wrecker that is being used. All drivers must possess a valid driver's license. A driving history will be provided to the Kingsland Police Department on every wrecker driver that is employed by the wrecker service on the rotation list.
(13)
The wrecker service shall maintain a place of business, with full-time wrecker availability, within the city limits of the City of Kingsland. The purpose of this requirement is first to ensure that the wrecker has the capability of meeting subsection (10) of this section; and secondly, to limit the travel time and mileage incurred by the police department in examining stored vehicles in the completion of accident investigations and reports.
Any complaint filed with the Kingsland Police Department about rates, damaged property or any other type incident will be investigated and may result in the removal of the wrecker service from the rotation list.
(14)
All wrecker services will be responsible for any damage or missing property from vehicles which have been impounded for the Kingsland Police Department, while in their custody.
(15)
All wreckers must submit to a yearly inspection by the Georgia Department of Motor Vehicle Safety.
(16)
All wrecker owners must submit a list of all wreckers, to include make, model, size, and vehicle identification number (VIN). In addition, absolutely no wrecker owner, with additional wreckers in other business names, may place these wreckers on the rotation list. Only one business name per owner will be allowed on the rotation list.
(17)
All wrecker owner/operators will be prohibited from smoking at any accident scene or hazardous material scene, or respond to a call while under the influence of intoxicants.
(Ord. No. 2005-16, 11-28-2005)
Sec. 23-113. - Removal from rotational list.
Any wrecker service violating the provisions of this article may be removed or suspended from the rotational call list by the chief of police or his designated representative. In lieu of removing the wrecker service from the rotational call list for minor violations of the provisions of the article, the chief, or his designated representative, may suspend the wrecker service for a period not exceed 30 days, during which the wrecker service will be removed from the rotational call list, except for request of an individual owner of the automobile.
(Ord. No. 2005-16, 11-28-2005)
Sec. 23-114. - Revocation of registration.
The chief of police, after a thorough investigation, shall revoke the registration of any wrecker service on any of the following grounds:
(1)
If the registration was procured by fraudulent conduct or false statement of a material fact.
(2)
If the wrecker service or operator proceeds to the scene of an accident in violation of this article.
(3)
If the wrecker service or operator uses a police radio to obtain information as to the location of the scene of an accident.
(4)
If the wrecker service had been guilty of a violation of the provision of this article for a second time.
Prior to the revocation of the registration of any wrecker service, the chief of police shall notify the wrecker service in writing within ten days from the date of his decision to revoke a registration. The wrecker service shall be given at least ten days' notice prior to revocation, together with a detailed list of all violations alleged against the wrecker service. Upon hearing the facts in which the wrecker service may present evidence, the chief of police may find that the alleged violation or violations have not been proven, in which event no further action will be taken. Such revocation shall terminate all authority and permission granted by the registration to the wrecker service. In the event of three suspensions within a 12-month period, any person whose registration has been revoked shall not be eligible to again apply for a registration for a period of one year from the date of the last revocation. Any person whose registration has been revoked by the chief of police may file an appeal to the city manager within 20 days of the third revocation. The city manager shall have the authority, upon the hearing of the appeal to reverse, vacate or modify the order of revocation.
(Ord. No. 2005-16, 11-28-2005)
Sec. 23-115. - Maximum charges allowed.
No wrecker service shall charge more than the following fees for services provided when responding to a call received from the rotational call list:
Maximum towing charge anywhere in the city limits of the City of Kingsland, day or night, to a single location .....$165.00
Storage per day, starting at 12:01 a.m. of the second calendar date following the tow date .....18.00
Clean-up (if applicable) .....45.00
A reasonable rate may be charged for recovery by winching when recovery is (1) over 25 feet from the edge of the roadway, or (2) out of water or marsh, and shall not include normal loading. To right an overturned vehicle shall be part of a normal tow and subject to the service charges set forth in this article.
No additional charges for any other service relating to the towing or storage of a vehicle resulting from a response to a rotational call list request shall be allowed. The wrecker service charges set forth herein are maximum. The wrecker operator may charge less for any service should he choose to do so.
Charges for any tow of a vehicle weighing 14,500 pounds or more are not limited by this article.
(Ord. No. 2005-16, 11-28-2005; Ord. No. 2008-17, 7-28-2008)
Sec. 23-116. - Ramp-in period.
Currently registered wrecker services who are not in compliance shall have a period of 90 days or at the discretion of the chief of police not to exceed six months to adhere to the requirements of this article commencing from the date of passage and approval of this act by the city council of the city.
(Ord. No. 2005-16, 11-28-2005)
Sec. 23-117. - Release of impounded/towed vehicles.
Wrecker service owners and/or operators must receive a written and signed authorization release form from Kingsland Police Department. The authorization shall be signed by an officer of the department.
(Ord. No. 2005-16, 11-28-2005)
