Subpart A - CHARTER[1]

Footnotes:
--- (1) ---
Editor's note— Printed herein is 1927 Ga. Laws (Act No. 236), page 1241, as adopted by the General Assemble. Amendments to the Charter are indicated by parenthetical history notes following amended provisions. The absence of such a history note indicates that the provision remains unchanged from the original Charter. Obvious misspellings have been corrected without notation. For stylistic purposes, a uniform system of headings, catchlines and citations to state statutes has been used. Additions made for clarity are indicated by brackets.

Sec. 1. - Incorporation; powers; continuation of ordinances, officers.
Be it enacted by the General Assembly of the State of Georgia, and it is hereby enacted by the authority of the same, that from and after the passage of this of this [sic] Act the inhabitants of the territory embraced in the following boundaries to wit: The territory hereby incorporated is all of the territory embraced in a circle extending one mile in all directions from the center of King Street and the center of the main line of the Seaboard Air-Line Railway at the point of intersection of said street and railway-track; be and they are hereby incorporated under the name and style of the City of Kingsland, and the City of Kingsland is hereby chartered and made a city under said corporate name and by name is established, and by that name shall have perpetual succession, and are hereby vested with all the rights, powers, and privileges incident to municipal corporations in this State, or cities thereof, and all rights, powers, titles, property, easements, and hereditaments now belonging and in any wise appertaining to said City of Kingsland, or the Mayor and Council of the City of Kingsland, under the old charter as heretofore incorporated, shall be and are hereby vested in the City of Kingsland as created by this Act, and the said City of Kingsland, in Camden County Georgia, created, established, and declared by this Act, may sue and be sued, contract and be contracted with, plead and be impleaded, have and use a common seal, make and enact through its mayor and council such ordinances, rules, regulations, and resolutions for the transaction of its business and for the welfare and proper government of said city as mayor and council may deem best and not inconsistent with the laws of Georgia and the United States; and the said City of Kingsland shall be capable in law to purchase, hold, enjoy, receive, possess, and retain in perpetuity, or for any term of years, any estate or estates real or personal, lands, tenements, hereditaments of any kind whatever, within or without the corporate limits of said city for corporate purposes; and to sell, alien, exchange, or release the same, or any part thereof. The said City of Kingsland, created by this Act, is hereby made a body corporate for the legal debts and liabilities and undertakings, of whatever kind or nature, of said City of Kingsland, or the Mayor and Council of the City of Kingsland heretofore incorporated; and all ordinances now in forces in the City of Kingsland and enacted by the municipal authorities of the City of Kingsland, or by the Mayor and Council of the City of Kingsland under the old charter and not repugnant to this charter or the laws of Georgia, shall be and are hereby continued in force in said City of Kingsland incorporated by this Act, and the present Mayor and Councilmen of the City of Kingsland shall continue in office as the Mayor and Councilmen of the City of Kingsland, incorporated under this Act, until their present terms expire, or their successors are elected and qualified under this charter, and all other officers of the City of Kingsland under the old charter until their present terms expire or their successors are elected and qualified.
(1927 Ga. Laws (Act No. 236), page 1241, § 1; 1941 Ga. Laws (Act No. 192), page 1575, § 1)
Editor's note— 1941 Ga. Laws (Act No. 192), page 1575, § 1, provided as follows:
"The object and purpose of this Act is to extend the corporate limits of the City of Kingsland, Georgia, so as to embrace all of the territory within a circle two miles in diameter, the center of said circle being herein before set out in this section of this Act."
Sec. 1.1. - City manager.
(a)
A city manager shall be appointed by a majority vote of all council members for a term set by contract with the city manager.
(b)
The city manager shall be chosen solely on the basis of executive, administrative, and managerial qualifications with special reference to actual experience in or knowledge of accepted practices with respect to the duties of the office set forth in this section. At the time of appointment, he or she need not be a resident of the city or the state, but during the tenure of office he or she shall reside within the geographical limits of the 1606th District G. M., Camden County, Georgia.
(c)
No council member shall receive this appointment during the term for which the member was elected nor within one year after the expiration of that term.
(d)
The council may remove the city manager by such procedure as may be set out in the city manager's contract with the city.
(e)
The council shall appoint a noncouncil member to serve as acting city manager to exercise the powers and perform the duties of the city manager during any temporary absence or disability, which disability shall be acknowledged by a motion adopted by a majority vote of all council members present.
(f)
The city manager shall:
(1)
Be the chief administrative officer of the city;
(2)
Be responsible to the council for the proper administration of all affairs of the city;
(3)
Appoint and, when necessary for the good of the city, suspend or remove all officers and employees of the city except as otherwise provided by state law, this charter, or personnel ordinances of the city;
(4)
Prepare and submit an operating and capital improvements budget annually to the council;
(5)
Prepare and submit to the council, at the end of each fiscal year, a report on the administrative and financial activities of the city for the preceding year;
(6)
Make any other reports on the operation of any aspect of the city operation as the council may request by motion; and
(7)
Perform any other duties and exercise any other powers as directed by ordinance consistent with the charter and state law.
(g)
The city manager shall appoint and remove all department heads with the consent of the council adopted by motion and may personally serve as department head of any and all departments.
(h)
The city manager shall enter into contracts only with the consent of the council adopted by motion or as authorized by ordinance.
(i)
Except for the purpose of inquiries and investigations, the council and its members shall deal with city officers and employees who are subject to the direction and supervision of the city manager solely through the city manager, and neither the council nor its members shall give orders to any city officer or employee, either publicly or privately.
(1985 Ga. Laws (Act No. 446), page 4698, § 1)
Sec. 2. - Mayor and council generally; other officers.
The government of the city shall consist of a mayor and four councilmembers who shall constitute the legislative body for the city and all of whom shall be elected in accordance with this charter and Chapter 2 of Title 21 of the O.C.G.A., the Georgia Election Code. All such officers shall serve for terms of four years and until their respective successors are duly elected and qualified, except as otherwise provided in Section 3 of this charter. The mayor and councilmembers shall each take an appropriate oath provided by ordinance before entering upon the duties of their respective offices, which may be administered by any person authorized by law to administer oaths under the laws of this state. The council may elect or appoint such subordinate officers as may become necessary at any time for the enforcement of the provisions of this charter or any ordinance passed by the council in the pursuance of the rights and powers herein conferred. All such subordinate officers thus appointed or elected shall be deemed and held to be lawful officers of this state and the City of Kingsland. All such subordinate officers shall hold their offices at the will of the council and receive such salary as may be fixed by the council. Each such officer shall take an appropriate oath before entering upon the discharge of their respective duties and give such bond as the council may require, payable to the City of Kingsland, conditioned upon the faithful performance of the duties of their respective offices.
(1927 Ga. Laws (Act No. 236), page 1241, § 2; 1931 Ga. Laws (Act No. 210), page 855, §§ 1, 2; 2015 Ga. Laws (Act. No. 224—Approved at referendum of Nov. 3, 2015) , § 1)
Editor's note— 1931 Ga. Laws (Act No. 210), page 855, §§ 1, 2, provide as follows:
"Sec. 1. Be it enacted by the General Assembly of Georgia, and it is hereby enacted by authority of same, that at the election to be held in and for the City of Kingsland on the first Wednesday in January, 1932, for the election of a mayor and four councilmen for said city, said mayor and councilmen shall be elected for a term of two years instead of for one year as is now provided in section 2 of the charter of said city."
"Sec. 2. Be it further enacted by the authority aforesaid, that at all future elections held in and for said city for the election of mayor and councilmen that [sic] the term for which they shall be elected shall be for two years, except for the filling of vacancies during the term for which they are elected."
Sec. 3. - Elections; council posts.
(a)
Beginning in 2018, the municipal general election for the City of Kingsland shall be conducted on the Tuesday next following the first Monday in November in each even-numbered year. The election shall be held and conducted in accordance with Chapter 2 of Title 21 of the O.C.G.A., the Georgia Election Code.
(b)
For the purposes of electing candidates to the office of councilmember, positions of membership on the council shall be numbered as Posts 1 through 4, respectively. Candidates offering for election to the council shall designate by number that position on the council for which they offer as a candidate. In the general election conducted in 2015, the mayor and the candidates elected to Posts 3 and 4 shall serve for an initial term of three years and until their respective successors are duly elected and qualified. In the general election conducted in 2017, the candidates elected to Posts 1 and 2 shall serve for an initial term of three years and until their respective successors are elected and qualified. Thereafter, the mayor and councilmembers shall be elected on the Tuesday next following the first Monday in November immediately prior to the end of their respective terms of office for terms of office of four years and until their respective successors are duly elected and qualified.
(c)
To be elected to an office, a candidate shall receive a plurality of the votes cast for such office.
(1927 Ga. Laws (Act No. 236), page 1241, § 3; 1962 Ga. Laws (Act No. 562), page 2108, § 1; 1964 Ga. Laws (Act No. 632), page 2263, § 1; 1976 Ga. Laws (Act No. 907), page 2833, § 1; 2015 Ga. Laws (Act. No. 224—Approved at referendum of Nov. 3, 2015 ), § 2)
State Law reference— O.C.G.A. § 21-1-541.1 (Terms of office for city officials elected at general municipal elections shall be four years)
Sec. 4. - Qualifications of voters.
Be it further enacted, that all male citizens qualified to vote for members of the House of Representatives in the General Assembly of Georgia, and who have paid all taxes imposed and demanded by the authorities of the city, and shall have resided six months within the jurisdictional limits of said city, and no other person, shall qualified to vote at said election.
(1927 Ga. Laws (Act No. 236), page 1241, § 4)
Editor's note— The current law on electors' qualifications is found in O.C.G.A. § 21-2-216.
Sec. 5. - Registration of voters.
Be it further enacted, that the mayor and council shall cause the city clerk of the said City of Kingsland to register the names of all voters who are qualified to vote under the charter of this city, and under the laws of this State, for municipal officers of the City of Kingsland.
(1927 Ga. Laws (Act No. 236), page 1241, § 5)
Editor's note— The current law on registration of voters is found in O.C.G.A. § 21-2-210.
Sec. 6. - Registration book; notice of registration.
Be it further enacted, that the said city clerk shall provide a suitable book alphabetically arranged, in which to register said qualified voters, and said clerk shall give notice in any newspaper published in said city at least sixty days preceding the election, or shall post at three or more public places, one of which shall be at the court-house door for holding mayors court, a notice that his looks are open for the registration of all voters who are qualified to vote for municipal officers in said city. Said registration book shall be closed at least one week before the election.
(1927 Ga. Laws (Act No. 236), page 1241, § 6)
Sec. 7. - Application for registration; oath.
Be it further enacted, that it shall be the duty of all persons in said city who desire to register to apply to the city clerk in person, and to furnish said city clerk evidence of their qualification for registration: and in case the city clerk is not satisfied as to the qualifications of the applicant, he may require the following oath, or affirmation: "I do swear (or affirm) that I am a qualified voter for members of the House of Representatives in the General Assembly of the State of Georgia, from the County of Camden, and have paid all taxes legally imposed upon me by the City of Kingsland; so help me God." The city clerk of said city is hereby authorized to administer said oath, and shall keep a record of the same upon the registration book, and may refuse to register said persons as may decline to take the oath aforesaid.
(1927 Ga. Laws (Act No. 236), page 1241, § 7)
Sec. 8. - Violations.
Be it further enacted, that any person voting illegally in the municipal election of the City of Kingsland, or falsely swearing (or affirming) in order to register, or otherwise violating any provisions of this Act, shall on conviction, be punished as prescribed in section 1065 of the Criminal Code of Georgia of 1910.
(1927 Ga. Laws (Act No. 236), page 1241, § 8)
Editor's note— The current law on election offenses is found in O.C.G.A. § 21-2-560 et seq.
Sec. 9. - Election managers; oath of voter.
Be it further enacted, that said election shall be held under the superintendence of a justice of the peace and two freeholders, or three freeholders, who shall be appointed by the said mayor and council at least five days before the election; and each of said election managers shall, before entering upon his duties, take an oath before some officer of this State, authorized by law to administer oaths, that he will faithfully and impartially conduct said election and will prevent all illegal voting to the best of his skill and power; and in case the said managers of said election shall have any reasonable doubt as to the qualification of any persons who desire to vote therein, they shall have the power to administer the following oath: "You do solemnly swear (or affirm) that you have attained the age of 21 years; that you are a citizen of the United States, and are qualified to vote for members of the House of Representatives in the General Assembly of Georgia, from the County of Camden; that you have resided for the last six months within the City of Kingsland, and have paid all taxes legally imposed and demanded of you by said City; so help you God." Any person who shall take said oath and shall swear falsely shall be deemed guilty of perjury, and be punished upon prosecution and conviction as prescribed by the laws of said State for the punishment of perjury.
(1927 Ga. Laws (Act No. 236), page 1241, § 9)
Editor's note— The current law on poll officers is found in O.C.G.A. § 21-2-90 et seq.
Sec. 10. - Majority vote.
The candidate for the office of mayor or councilmember who receives a majority of the votes cast for such office shall be declared duly elected.
(1927 Ga. Laws (Act No. 236), page 1241, § 10; 2015 Ga. Laws, § 1—Approved at referendum of Nov. 3, 2015 )
Sec. 11. - Vacancies.
Be it further enacted, that in case of any vacancy in the office of mayor and council, either by death, resignation, failure to elect, removal from office, removal from the city, or any other cause, the mayor shall order a new election to fill said vacancy, giving ten days notice thereby by publication in any newspaper that may be published in said city, or by posting a notice of the same, for at least ten days, in three or more public places in said city, one of which shall be posted at the door of the courtroom where the mayor's court is held in said city; and the registration for the last preceding election shall be applicable thereto. In case of the death of the mayor, his resignation, removal from office, or removal from the city, or a vacancy from any other cause in the office of the mayor the mayor pro tem, shall in like manner order an election for filling said vacancy, giving similar notice of the election to be held; provided, that if any vacancy shall occur within three months next preceding the regular election, no election shall be called to fill said vacancy; in that event, if the vacancy is in the office of mayor, the mayor pro tem shall, upon taking the oath of mayor, serve out the unexpired term, and the said council shall elect a new mayor pro tem. If the vacancy is in the office of councilmen, there shall be no election to fill out the same unless the council is reduced by vacancy to less than a quorum, which a hereby declared to consist of three councilmen besides the mayor or acting mayor.
(1927 Ga. Laws (Act No. 236), page 1241, § 11)
Editor's note— The former mayor's court is now known as the "municipal court." (O.C.G.A. § 36-32-1)
Sec. 12. - Certification of votes; oath of office.
Be it further enacted, that after the votes for mayor and councilmen at each election therefor for said city shall have been counted by the managers, and the result determined, they shall cause two certified copies of the tally-sheets to be made out, one of which shall be handed to the mayor, and the other shall be retained by the managers; and as soon as the mayor of said city shall be informed of the results of the election, he shall cause the persons as aforesaid to be notified of the fact, and the persons so elected shall attend on the first Monday thereafter at the council chamber at the regular meeting of the mayor and council, and the newly-elected mayor and each member of council shall take and subscribe before the clerk of some court of record of this State, or before an officer of said State authorized by law to administer oaths, the following oath: "I swear that I will faithfully and impartially demean myself as mayor (or councilman, as the case may be) during my continuance in office. I have not, in order to influence my election to this office, directly or indirectly promised my vote or support to any person or officer in the said government of the city of Kingsland, nor for any other office. I will not knowingly permit my vote in the election or appointment of any persons to a position in said government to be influenced by fear, favor, or the hope of reward, but in all things pertaining to my office I will be governed by what in my judgment is for the public good and for the best interest of said city; so help me God."
(1927 Ga. Laws (Act No. 236), page 1241, § 12)
Sec. 13. - Abuse of office.
Be it further enacted, that in case the mayor or any member of the council, while in office, shall be guilty of willful neglect, malpractice, or abuse of power conferred upon him, he shall be subject to indictment therefor in the superior court of Camden County, and on conviction shall be fined in a sum not to exceed one hundred dollars, which fine shall be paid to the city treasurer for the use of said city; and he shall, moreover, be removed from office upon conviction.
(1927 Ga. Laws (Act No. 236), page 1241, § 13)
Sec. 14. - Eligibility for office.
Be it further enacted that no person shall be eligible as mayor or councilman or city treasurer of the City of Kingsland, unless such person is a qualified voter of said city at the time of his election to such office.
(1927 Ga. Laws (Act No. 236), page 1241, § 14)
Sec. 15. - Mayor; salary; powers and duties.
Be it further enacted, that the Mayor of said city shall receive no salary unless same is fixed by unanimous vote of a full board of councilmen; and in the event a salary for mayor is fixed, it shall not exceed one hundred dollars annually, payable quarterly. The mayor, or, in his absence, the mayor pro tem, shall preside over all meetings of council. The mayor shall not have a vote except in case of a tie. When presiding the mayor pro tem shall have his regular vote, and in case of a tie shall have an additional vote to break the tie. The mayor shall have the veto power, and may veto any ordinance or resolution of the council, in which event the same shall not become a law unless subsequently passed over the veto by the vote of at least four councilmen, duly recorded on the minutes of council; but unless he shall file in writing with the city clerk his veto of any measure passed by council, with the reasons which impel him to withhold his assent, within four days of its passage, the same shall become a law just as if approved and signed by the mayor. The council shall not have power to override the veto of the mayor unless action on any veto is taken within sixty days after the mayor files his veto with the city clerk. The mayor shall be the chief executive officer of the city. He shall see that all laws, ordinances, resolutions, and rules of said city are faithfully executed. He shall have the general jurisdiction of all the affairs of the city, and to him all police officers and city employees under the direction of the mayor and council shall be directly and immediately subject. He shall have the power and authority to punish for contempt before the mayor and council by a fine not exceeding fifty dollars, or by imprisonment in the city jail or calaboose for a period not exceeding four days, either or both, or in the alternative, the discretion of the mayor. It shall be the duty of the mayor to preserve the peace, and he may appoint special policemen to assist the marshal hereinafter provided for, when in his judgment it may be necessary. The mayor shall be an ex-officio justice of the peace so far as to enable and authorize him to issue warrants and conduct commitment trials for criminal offenses committed within the jurisdiction of the City of Kingsland, and he may commit offenders thus tried before him, as a court of inquiry, to the common jail of Camden County, or admit them to bail as in cases where a justice of the peace has power to commit or admit to bail. The mayor shall have the power and authority to remit or reduce fines or penalties imposed in his court on persons convicted therein for violating any of the laws or ordinances of said city; and he shall also have the authority to parole on good conduct persons convicted in the mayor's court, whenever in his judgment the same is advisable.
(1927 Ga. Laws (Act No. 236), page 1241, § 15)
Editor's note— The compensation of the members of the municipal governing body is determined under the provisions of O.C.G.A. § 36-35-4.
Sec. 16. - Mayor pro tem.
Be it further enacted, that at its first regular meeting upon organization the council shall elect one of their number mayor pro tem; and in case of the resignation, death, removal, disability or disqualification of the mayor, the mayor pro tem, shall take the oath as mayor and serve as mayor with all the rights, powers, and duties of the mayor in all respects until the vacancy in the office of mayor shall have been filled in the manner provided for in this charter. If the services of the mayor pro tem shall continue for as long as thirty days, he shall be compensated at the same rate and in the same manner that the mayor is paid, and such compensation shall be deducted from the salary of the mayor, unless said mayor's disqualifications or continued absence was from providential cause.
(1927 Ga. Laws (Act No. 236), page 1241, § 16)
Sec. 17. - Salary of councilmen.
Be it further enacted, that the qualifications of the members of council shall be the same as those of the mayor, and they shall receive no salary unless same is provided for by unanimous vote of a full board of councilmen and concurred in by the mayor, and shall not exceed fifty dollars per year payable annually.
(1927 Ga. Laws (Act No. 236), page 1241, § 17)
Editor's note— The compensation of the members of the municipal governing body is determined under the provisions of O.C.G.A. § 36-35-4.
Sec. 18. - City officers.
Be it further enacted, that at its first regular meeting after qualification and upon organization, or as soon thereafter as practicable, the Mayor and Council of the City of Kingsland shall elect a city clerk, a city treasurer, and marshal for said city. They shall also elect at the same time and place, or as soon thereafter as practical, a city tax-receiver, which may be the same person as they elect as city clerk, and also a city tax collector, which may be the same person as was chosen as city treasurer. The qualifications for each of such subordinate officers herein provided for shall be the same as those for mayor and council; and they shall, upon assuming their duties, take and subscribe such oaths of office as the mayor and council may prescribe; and they shall each give bond in such sum as the mayor and council may direct, for the faithful performance of their duties and the making of a full and true account of all monies and funds coming into their hands from all sources as an officer of said city. The term of office for each of the subordinate officers provided for in this section shall be for a term of one year, or until their successors are elected and qualified.
(1927 Ga. Laws (Act No. 236), page 1241, § 18)
Sec. 19. - Duties of clerk.
Be it further enacted, that the city clerk shall be the clerical officer of the Council, and shall attend all their meetings; he shall be the keeper of the seal of said city; he shall be ex-officio clerk of the mayor's or police court of said city, and attend its sessions; he shall be ex-officio clerk of the board of tax-assessors and the board of health of said city, and he shall be ex-officio clerk or secretary of any other board of said city created under the provisions of this Act, or that may be created or established under the laws and ordinances of the City of Kingsland. The duties of the said city clerk as clerk of the council and as ex-officio clerk of the police court, as ex-officio tax-receiver, as ex-officio clerk of the board of health, and as ex-officio clerk or secretary of any board or commission of said city, shall be such as are prescribed in this Act, or such as shall be prescribed under and by virtue of the laws or ordinances of said City of Kingsland or by the mayor and council thereof.
(1927 Ga. Laws (Act No. 236), page 1241, § 19)
Editor's note— The former mayor's court or police court is now known as the municipal court. (O.C.G.A. § 36-32-1)
Sec. 20. - Duties of treasurer.
Be it further enacted, that the city treasurer of the City of Kingsland shall make and keep a just and true account of all monies and funds coming into his hands from all sources as an officer of said city. It shall be the duty of the city treasurer to receive and safely keep the monies and funds of the city that may come into his hands from every source; to keep separate accounts of the same as may be provided or required under and by the laws and ordinances of said city; he shall only pay out said funds in the way and manner as may be prescribed and provided for by and under the laws and ordinances of said city.
(1927 Ga. Laws (Act No. 236), page 1241, § 20)
Sec. 21. - Duties of tax receiver.
Be it further enacted, that the duties of the city tax-receiver shall be to receive tax-returns of all property in said city, both real and personal, at such time and in such manner as the mayor and council may prescribe by ordinances or otherwise, and upon such blanks prescribed by the mayor and council of said city, and he shall have the authority to administer oaths to taxpayers on their return of property for taxation; and he shall deliver all such tax-returns over the tax-collector for said city.
(1927 Ga. Laws (Act No. 236), page 1241, § 21)
Sec. 22. - Duties of tax collector.
Be it further enacted, that the duties of the tax-collector shall be to accept and receive all tax-returns made to the tax-receiver for said city; to make the calculation as to amount of taxes to be paid out by any property owner in said city, using the tax rate fixed by the mayor and council; to collect and receipt for all taxes of whatever kind levied, and turn the same over promptly to the treasurer of said city.
(1927 Ga. Laws (Act No. 236), page 1241, § 22)
Sec. 23. - City marshal.
Be it further enacted, that at its first regular meeting and upon organization, or as soon thereafter as is practicable, the mayor and council shall elect a city marshal. They may also elect one or more assistants or city policemen, if in their judgment it may seem proper and necessary, at the same time providing for their compensation. The city marshal shall be elected for a term of one year. All such officers shall take and subscribe such oaths as the mayor and council may prescribe, and shall give bond, with good and sufficient security to be approved by the mayor of said city, in such amount as may be determined upon by the mayor and council, for the faithful performance of their duties, and to account for all moneys that may come into their hands as such officers of said city. Said officers shall perform such duties as required and provided for in this Act, and as may be prescribed and required of them by the laws and ordinances of said city, and by the mayor and council.
(1927 Ga. Laws (Act No. 236), page 1241, § 23)
Sec. 24. - City attorney.
Be it further enacted, that the Mayor and Council of said City shall have the power and authority to employ an attorney to represent said city in any litigation to which said city may be a party, or in any matter in which said city or the municipal authorities thereof may need legal counsel. Their said city attorney shall be paid for his services such fees as may be reasonable and just, and as may be agreed upon between himself and the mayor and council.
(1927 Ga. Laws (Act No. 236), page 1241, § 24)
Sec. 25. - City sexton.
Be it further enacted, that the mayor and council shall have authority to employ a city sexton to have the superintendence of and the care of the city cemeteries; his duties shall be such as shall be prescribed by the mayor and council and by the laws and ordinances of said city. He shall receive such compensation as may be prescribed for by the ordinances of said city or by the mayor and council.
(1927 Ga. Laws (Act No. 236), page 1241, § 25)
Sec. 26. - City physician.
Be it further enacted, that the mayor and council shall have authority to elect a city physician, whose duties shall be such as required by the ordinances of said city and by the direction of the mayor and council, and his compensation shall be fixed by the laws and ordinances of said city or by the mayor and council. He shall co-operate with the board of health hereinafter provided for, and shall consult and advise with the board of health in their efforts to maintain the cleanliness of said city and preserve the health of the inhabitants thereof.
(1927 Ga. Laws (Act No. 236), page 1241, § 26)
Sec. 27. - Suspension or removal of officers.
Be it further enacted, that the mayor and council of the City of Kingsland shall have the right at any time, without a trial, to suspend or remove any of the subordinate officers of said city, including the clerk, treasurer, tax-receiver, tax-collector, marshal, policemen, city attorney, city physician, and sexton, for any breach of duty or failure to perform duty, insubordination, incapacity, or for conduct unbecoming for an officer or gentleman, or for other good and sufficient cause or reason, to be adjudged by the mayor and council. The mayor may, at any time during a recess of council, suspend any of said officers for any of the above-named reasons, for a period not to exceed ten days without pay, and appoint a substitute therefor.
(1927 Ga. Laws (Act No. 236), page 1241, § 27)
Sec. 28. - Additional police.
Be it further enacted, that the mayor and council of said city shall be empowered to employ such additional police or detective force as a good government of said city may require. The compensation and duties of said force shall be fixed and determined by said mayor and council.
(1927 Ga. Laws (Act No. 236), page 1241, § 28)
Sec. 29. - Mayor's court.
Be it further enacted, that the mayor, and, in his absence, the mayor pro tem, and, in the absence of both, any one or more members of the council, may hold mayor's court for the purpose of trying offenders against the laws and ordinances of said city, and may exercise all the powers conferred by this charter upon the mayor, and may punish, for a violation of a law or ordinance of said city, by a fine not exceeding one hundred dollars, imprisonment in the city jail, or the county jail by permission of the county authorities, not exceeding fifty days, work on the streets or other public works under the supervision of the marshals of said city, not exceeding fifty days, one or more, or all of these, at the discretion of the trial court. While sitting as a court for the trial of offenders the said court shall have the power to punish for contempt by fine not exceeding fifty dollars, imprisonment or work in the manner already described in this section, not exceeding fifty days, one or more or all of these at the discretion of the trial court. There may be an appeal in any case from the mayor's court to council; the judgment therein may be reviewed by certiorari to the superior court of Camden County.
(1927 Ga. Laws (Act No. 236), page 1241, § 29)
Editor's note— The former mayor's court is now known as the municipal court. (O.C.G.A. § 36-32-1)
Sec. 30. - Mayor ex-officio justice of the peace.
Be it further enacted, that the mayor of said city shall be ex-officio a justice of the peace, as far as to authorize him to administer oaths, attest deeds, mortgages, or any other instrument or paper which a justice of the peace is authorized to attest, to issue warrants for any offense committed within the corporate limits of said city against any law or ordinance of said city or of this State; and when the offense is against laws of the State, the mayor may hear evidence and commit to jail or take bond for appearance before the State court having jurisdiction of the offense, the same as a justice of the peace could do; if the offense charged in the warrant be one against the laws or ordinances of the city, the arresting officer shall carry the accused before the mayor's court for trial, and none other, and the same shall be disposed of as other cases of arrest not made under warrant. All warrants issued by the mayor, or those acting in his stead, shall be directed "To the Marshal of Kingsland, and to all and singular sheriffs deputy sheriffs, and constables of this State," and any one of said officers shall have the same authority to execute said warrants as the sheriffs have to execute criminal warrants.
(1927 Ga. Laws (Act No. 236), page 1241, § 30)
Editor's note— The office of justice of the peace has been replaced by the office of magistrate. See O.C.G.A. § 15-10-1 et seq.
Sec. 31. - Witnesses.
Be it further enacted, that the mayor, or those holding mayor's court in his stead, shall have power and authority to subpoena witnesses to attend the mayor's court under the same rules and regulations that govern the superior courts of this State, and to compel their attendance, and to punish any witnesses who have been subpoenaed and failed to attend, under the provisions for contempts already provided for in this charter.
(1927 Ga. Laws (Act No. 236), page 1241, § 31)
Sec. 32. - Pleadings.
Be it further enacted, that all trials in the police court of said city shall be had without written pleadings of any kind, unless the defendant shall, upon the calling of the case, file a written demand with the city clerk that an accusation in writing shall be preferred against him, in which event a written accusation, in form substantially as follows: "Georgia, Camden County, City of Kingsland _______ In the Mayor's Court of the City of Kingsland: I, ___________ marshal (or policeman) of said City, in the name and behalf of the City of Kingsland, charge and accuse ___________ of the offense of _______, contrary to the laws and ordinances of said city, the good, order, peace, and dignity thereof," shall be preferred against the defendant, signed by the officer making or prosecuting the case, and filed in said court; whereupon the defendant shall enter his pleas thereon in writing; and the issue being thus formed, the case shall proceed to trial and disposition.
(1927 Ga. Laws (Act No. 236), page 1241, § 32)
Editor's note— The former mayor's court or police court is now known as the municipal court. (O.C.G.A. § 36-32-1)
Sec. 33. - Subpoenas.
Be it further enacted, that the said mayor while acting as judge of the police court shall have authority to subpoena witnesses and compel their attendance, whether residents of said city or not; to issue subpoenas duces tecum, for witnesses and the production of books and papers, whether in the city or not, and compel their production; to compel the presence of witnesses by imprisonment if necessary, and to take bonds to secure their attendance, and to forfeit said bonds before said mayor's or police court; to punish as for contempt, failure to obey its legal summonses or subpoenas; to grant continuances under rules of law; to take bonds and recognizances for persons charged with offenses against the laws and ordinances of said city, for their appearance at its sessions from time to time, until the principal in said bond is tried for the offense charged, in such amount as may be deemed sufficient to compel their appearance; to forfeit all appearance bonds when the principal shall fail or refuse to appear at said court at the time and place specified therein; and shall have the authority to do generally all other acts and things necessary for the proper enforcement of its authority.
(1927 Ga. Laws (Act No. 236), page 1241, § 33)
Sec. 34. - Appearance bonds.
Be it further enacted, that the marshal or any policeman of said city shall release any person arrested for a violation of the laws and ordinances of said city, upon said person giving a bond with good and sufficient security to be approved by the marshal or other arresting officer, or city clerk of said city, payable to the mayor of said City of Kingsland, in an amount fixed by the said marshal or other arresting officer and the city clerk of said city, for the personal appearance of such persons before the police court of said city at the time and place therein specified, to answer the charges against him, and from time to time until the principal in such bond is tried and the case disposed of, and not to depart from thence, except by leave of the court. And in the event such principal fails to appear before said court as stipulated in said bond, said bond shall be forfeited in said court, and the presiding officer thereof shall have the power and authority to order the principal in said bond rearrested and placed in the city jail or calaboose until such case shall be tried and disposed of, or to admit the defendant to bail, as he may deem proper.
(1927 Ga. Laws (Act No. 236), page 1241, § 34)
Sec. 35. - Warrant for arrest.
Be it further enacted, that in no case, except as hereinafter provided, shall the marshal or any policeman of said city make any arrest of any person charged with the violation of any of the laws and ordinances of said city, without first having procured from the mayor, or mayor pro tem., of said city (each of them being hereby authorized and empowered to issue warrants for the apprehension and arrests of persons charged with violating any of the laws and ordinances of said city) a warrant for the arrest of such persons, unless the offense or violation is committed in the presence of such arresting officer, or the offender is likely to escape, in which event he may arrest and detain such persons until a proper warrant can be secured, authorizing the offenders further detention, the marshal and policeman of said city, and the detective force, being fully authorized and empowered to arrest any person within the corporate limits of the City of Kingsland, charged with an offense against its laws and ordinances, and to imprison and confine such persons arrested by them in the city jail or calaboose, or in the jail of Camden County, until the trial, or admit them to bail as provided. The marshal and policemen of said city are authorized, to the same extent as sheriffs of this State, to execute warrants places in their hands charging any person with a violation of any of the criminal laws of this State. The marshal and policemen are also authorized to arrest anywhere within the limits of this State any person charged with a violation of the laws and ordinances of said city, upon a warrant from the proper officer of said city authorized to issue the same.
(1927 Ga. Laws (Act No. 236), page 1241, § 35)
Sec. 36. - Power to require bystander to aid in arrest.
Be it further enacted, that the Mayor and Council of the City of Kingsland shall have the power and authority to authorize, by ordinance, the marshal or any policeman of said city to summons any and all bystanders to aid in the arrest of any person or persons violating any ordinances of said city or any law of this State, and to provide a punishment for any person or persons failing or refusing to obey such summons.
(1927 Ga. Laws (Act No. 236), page 1241, § 36)
Sec. 37. - Nuisances.
Be it further enacted, that said mayor and council may, by ordinance, declare what shall be nuisances in said city, and by ordinance provide for the abatement of the same.
(1927 Ga. Laws (Act No. 236), page 1241, § 37)
Sec. 38. - Animals generally.
Be it further enacted, that the mayor and council of said city shall have the power and authority to prevent horses, mules, cattle, hogs, sheep, goats, dogs, and all other animals from running at large in said city; to prevent and prohibit the keeping of hogs within the city limits, or to regulate the manner in which they must be kept, if allowed kept; to limit the number of hogs to be kept by persons in said city, if allowed kept therein; and shall have full power and authority to take up and impound any of such animals and punish all owners of any such animals who shall fail or refuse to obey such ordinances as may be adopted by the mayor and council of said city to carry out and effectuate this authority. The mayor and council shall also have the authority to levy and collect such tax as they may deem proper upon dogs kept within the limits of said city, to provide for the registration thereof, and to prescribe such ordinances respecting the keeping of dogs as may be deemed proper, and to prescribe the punishment for violation of said ordinances.
(1927 Ga. Laws (Act No. 236), page 1241, § 38)
Sec. 39. - Animal pound.
Be it further enacted, that the mayor and council shall have authority to establish a pound for the impounding of any of the above-mentioned animals, and to change the same whenever they see proper; to fix a schedule of charges and penalties to be paid by the owners of such impounded animals before they are released from said pound; to regulate the mode or manner of sale or disposition of impounded animals where owner appears or when payment of the impounding fees charged, penalties, or cost is refused; to provide for the disposition of the proceeds of the sale of impounded animals; and to provide for the punishment of all persons who, without authority, shall break or enter the pound.
(1927 Ga. Laws (Act No. 236), page 1241, § 39)
Sec. 40. - Street work; commutation tax.
Be it further enacted, that the mayor and council of said city shall have the power and authority to require every male inhabitant in said city, who by the laws of this State is subject to work on the public roads, to work such length of time on the streets of said city as the mayor and council may by ordinance direct, in no case to exceed fifteen days in any one year. Said persons so subject to street work shall have the right to relieve themselves of said work by paying a commutation tax which said mayor and council shall fix by ordinance, and which tax shall in no event exceed five (5) dollars per annum; said street work to be done, and commutation tax paid, at such times as the mayor and council may by ordinance direct. Any persons subject to work or pay said tax and failing to do so, alter being properly notified as provided under the laws and ordinances of said city, shall be punished in the police court of said city as the mayor and council may by ordinance prescribe.
(1927 Ga. Laws (Act No. 236), page 1241, § 40)
Sec. 41. - Board of health.
Be it further enacted, that the said mayor and council shall have the authority to establish and put in operation a board of health for said city. The duties, powers, and compensations of said board, and the number of members that shall comprise the same, shall be such as are fixed and prescribed by the ordinances and laws of said city. Said mayor and council shall have authority to enact all ordinances and regulations prescribing penalties for the violation of such laws and ordinances that may be necessary for the purpose of maintaining such board of health.
(1927 Ga. Laws (Act No. 236), page 1241, § 41)
Sec. 42. - Health regulations.
Be it further enacted, that the said mayor and council shall have the power and authority to enact and enforce ordinances to prevent the spread of any infectious or contagious diseases; to compel the vaccination of all persons within the limits of said city, whether residents or sojourners; also, to isolate any person or persons in said city afflicted with any contagious or infectious disease by confining such person or persons within the limits of, the premises provided by the mayor and council, either within or without the corporate limits of the city for such purposes; to isolate any person or persons who have been exposed to any infectious or contagious disease during the usual period of incubation of such disease, by confining such person or persons during such period, within the premises provided for by the mayor and council, either within or without the corporate limits of said city. The mayor and council shall also have the power and authority to establish, declare, and maintain quarantine regulations against all contagious or infectious diseases, and to punish violators of any quarantine regulations of the city. They shall have power to build, establish, and maintain pest-houses, either within or without the corporate limits of the city, and for this purpose they are authorized to buy, hold, or receive real estate either within or without the city limits. They shall have the power to provide vaccination points, and to employ physicians at the expense of the city to vaccinate all persons who are unable to procure vaccination, and may provide by ordinance punishment for persons failing or refusing to be vaccinated, and to prescribe punishment for all persons violating any ordinances, rules, and regulations enacted by said mayor and council for the prevention of diseases and for the promotion of the health of said city.
(1927 Ga. Laws (Act No. 236), page 1241, § 42)
Sec. 43. - Fire and building regulations.
Be it further enacted, that said mayor and council may enact any and all ordinances, rules, and regulations necessary to lay out and prescribe a fire district in said city, and enlarge, change, or modify its limits from time to time; to prescribe when, how, and of what material buildings in said limits may be erected, repaired, or covered; how thick the walls must be, how the chimneys, stove-pipes and flues are to be constructed; to provide for fire-escapes in said buildings; and generally to do all such things and to pass such laws and ordinances as the mayor and council may deem necessary in order to protect said city as far as possible from dangers from fire, and to prevent the spread of fire from one building to another, and for the protection and safety of the people. They shall also have the authority to order any changes in the construction or arrangement of buildings, chimneys, stove-pipes or flues, and to order the removal thereof when in their judgment the same are dangerous or likely to become so, and to make the owner of the premises pay the expenses of such change or removal, which expense may be collected as taxes are collected; and if any person, firm, or corporation shall erect or maintain any building that is not in accordance with the laws and ordinance of said city, said mayor and council may order such buildings removed or altered; and if such person, firm, or corporation shall not move or alter such buildings after notice to do so is given as may be pres-scribed, then said mayor and council shall have authority to remove or alter the same at the expense of the owners, which expense may be collected as taxes are collected.
(1927 Ga. Laws (Act No. 236), page 1241, § 43)
Sec. 44. - Streets, sidewalks, parks; eminent domain.
Be it further enacted, that the mayor and council of said city shall have the absolute, full, and complete control and supervision of the streets, sidewalks, alleys, lanes, parks, and squares of said city, and shall have full power and authority to open lay out, widen, straighten, grade, or otherwise change the streets, sidewalks, alleys, lanes, parks, and squares of said city, and shall have the power to lay off, grade, vacate, close up, open, curb, and pave the roads, streets, bridges, alleys, sidewalks, cross-drains, cross-walks, drains, and gutters, or any of them, for public use, or the use of laying wires or lines, or sewer pipes, throughout the streets, squares, lanes, alleys, and parks of said city, upon such terms and conditions as the mayor and council may by ordinance provide; and the mayor and council of said city shall have full power and authority to condemn property for the purpose of laying out and opening new streets, sidewalks, alleys, squares and parks in said city, and for the purpose of widening, straightening, grading, or in any way changing the streets, lanes, and sidewalks of said city. Whenever the said mayor and council shall desire to exercise the power and authority to condemn property as granted and conferred herein, said power and authority shall be exercised, whether the land sought to be condemned is in the hands of the owner or a trustee, executor, administrator, guardian, or agent, under the same terms and conditions as provided for in the general laws of this State with reference to the condemnation of private property for public use, as contained in Article 1, Chapter 9, of the Code of Georgia of 1910, beginning with section 5206 and embracing all sections following the same having reference to the condemnation of private property for public use, and as provided by acts amendatory thereof. The mayor and council of said city shall have full power and authority to remove or cause to be removed any building, steps, fences, gates, posts, or other obstruction, or nuisances of any kind in the public streets, alleys, lanes, sidewalks, parks, or squares of said city, and to enforce the provisions of the section by enactment of appropriate ordinances.
(1927 Ga. Laws (Act No. 236), page 1241, § 44)
Editor's note— The current law on eminent domain is found in O.C.G.A. title 22.
Sec. 45. - Maintenance and improvement of public property.
Be it further enacted, that the mayor and council of said city shall have full power and authority to pass all laws and ordinances necessary for the draining and proper maintenance and care of the streets, alleys, sidewalks, and other public places of said city; to provide for the paving, grading, macadamizing, curbing, or otherwise improving, for travel or drainage, the same or any part thereof; or to regrade, repave, recurb, remacadamize, or repair, in any way, the pavement, curbing, grade, or drainage of the same, whenever in the judgment of the said mayor and council the same becomes necessary or advisable; and the said mayor and council shall have the right and authority to provide, by ordinance how said paving, grading, macadamizing, or repairing, maintenance, and care of the same shall be paid, whether by the city or whether by the adjacent-land owners, or by both.
(1927 Ga. Laws (Act No. 236), page 1241, § 45)
Sec. 46. - Speed of trains and vehicles; riding on sidewalks.
Be it further enacted, that the mayor and council of said city shall have full power and authority, by ordinance, to regulate and prescribe the speed of railroad-trains running within the limits of said city; they shall also have the full power and authority to regulate the speed of automobiles, motorcycles, or other vehicles driven by either steam or gasoline, on the streets of said city; they shall also have full power and authority to prohibit by ordinance the riding of bicycles, motorcycles, or other vehicles or any other kind whatever, upon the sidewalks of said city.
(1927 Ga. Laws (Act No. 236), page 1241, § 46)
Editor's note— The speed of railroad trains is regulated by the Federal Railroad Safety Act.
Sec. 47. - Public utilities.
Be it further enacted, that the mayor and council of the City of Kingsland shall have the power and authority to build, establish, maintain, equip, repair, extend, or enlarge a system of waterworks, sewerage, natural or manufactured gas system, electric lights (any one or all of them) in the City of Kingsland, for the purpose of supplying its inhabitants and the city and consumers generally with water, sewerage, natural or manufactured gas system, and electric lights, or any of them, and the said mayor and council shall have the power to do any and all things necessary for such purposes; to contract with any person or persons, firms, or corporations, for the purchase of land or premises to be used in connection therewith, whether within or without the city, and to contract for the purchase of easements over lands and premises to be used in connection therewith, whether the lands and premises over which easements are desired are within or without the limits of said city, and, if necessary for any or all of such purposes, to condemn the same as herein provided for. Said mayor and council, in the name of the city, shall have full power and authority to make purchase of plants, machinery, and any and all articles and things that may be necessary or advisable for the proper equipment of said plants or either of them, and for the purpose of properly repairing and maintaining the same, or for the purpose of extending, enlarging, or in any way improving said plants, or either of them; to build and erect houses, bore wells, build shapes [sic] and to furnish the same with machinery, tools, and equipment that may be necessary or expedient in the care and maintenance of said plants; and to generally have the power and authority to do any and all things necessary or expedient to the upkeep, care, maintenance, and improvement of said plants or in the extension or enlargement thereof. Said mayor and council, in the name of the city, shall have the right and authority to make contracts with the inhabitants of said city, and to consumers generally, whether residents of said city or residents without the limits thereof, for the furnishing of water, electric lights, electric power, sewerage, natural or manufactured gas system, or any of them, at such rates and under such rules and regulations as the mayor and council may provide. Said mayor and council in the name of said city, shall have the right, power, and authority to contract with any person, firm, or corporation whatever, for the furnishing of electric lights to light the streets of such municipality, or for the furnishing of electric power to said city, upon such terms, conditions, stipulations, agreements, and limitations as the mayor and council may prescribe; and the said City of Kingsland shall have the power and authority to enforce such contracts in the courts of this State, in the same manner that other contracts are enforced under the laws of Georgia, said mayor and council shall also have the right and authority to contract with persons, firms, and corporations in other municipalities for the furnishing of electric lights and power under the same terms, rates, rules, and regulations as the same is furnished to residents of the City of Kingsland, or at a higher rate as the said mayor and council of the City of Kingsland may provide. For the purpose of carrying out the provisions of this Act the mayor and council of said city shall have the right and authority to purchase or condemn land and premises for such purposes, whether within or without the limits of said city, the condemnation proceedings to be the same as hereinbefore set out in this charter.
(1927 Ga. Laws (Act No. 236), page 1241, § 47; 1962 Ga. Laws (Act No. 558), page 2097, § 1)
Sec. 48. - Franchises.
Be it further enacted, that the said mayor and council shall also have full power and authority to grant franchises over its streets and other public property to any persons, firms, or corporations for the furnishing of water, electric lights, electric power, sewerage, natural or manufactured gas system, or any of them, to the city and its inhabitants, and to make such contracts, with such persons, firms, or corporations for water, electric lights, electric power, sewerage, natural or manufactured gas system, or any of them as the mayor and council, may deem proper; provided further, that no such franchise shall be granted for a period longer than thirty years from the date of granting same. The mayor and council of the City of Kingsland are hereby authorized and empowered to enact all laws, ordinances, rules, and regulations necessary to carry out and effectuate this section; provided, however, that any franchise heretofore granted to any person, firm or corporation by the City of Kingsland shall be continued for the full period of time as heretofore granted by said town.
(1927 Ga. Laws (Act No. 236), page 1241, § 48; 1962 Ga. Laws (Act No. 558), page 2097, § 2)
Sec. 49. - Bond issues.
Be it further enacted, that the City of Kingsland may issue its bonds for the payments of its debts or for public improvements, but such bonds shall be issued only in accordance with and under the provisions of the laws of Georgia, as found in sections 440 etc. of the Political Code of Georgia.
(1927 Ga. Laws (Act No. 236), page 1241, § 49)
Editor's note— The current law on municipal bonds is found in O.C.G.A. § 36-82-1 et seq.
Sec. 50. - Sinking fund.
Be it further enacted, that it shall be the duty of the mayor and council of said city to set aside annually a sufficient sum as a sinking-fund to retire the bonded debt of said city, and to pay the interest thereon as said interest becomes due.
(1927 Ga. Laws (Act No. 236), page 1241, § 50)
Sec. 51. - Bond election.
Be it further enacted, that whenever the City of Kingsland, acting through its mayor and council, shall desire to create a bonded debt for the purpose of carrying into effect any of the powers and provisions of this charter, it shall have the right and authority to do so when authorized by two thirds of the qualified voters of said city at an election held for that purpose as provided by law. The mayor and council shall have the authority to enact such ordinances to carry out and effectuate the provisions of this section.
(1927 Ga. Laws (Act No. 236), page 1241, § 51)
Sec. 52. - Licenses.
Be it further enacted, that the mayor and council of said city shall have the full power and authority to tax and grant licenses to persons keeping markets in said city, and to provide for the inspection of all meats, fruits, and vegetables sold or offered for sale in said city, as well as for the inspection and regulation of all butcher-pens used by butchers in said city, whether said pens are located within the limits of said city or not, and all animals slaughtered or intended for slaughter by the owners of markets or persons conducting same, and all animals brought in said city for sale to markets or brought into the city after being sold, for the purpose of being butchered and dispensed to the people of said city. The said mayor and council of said city shall also have the right and authority to tax, license, regulate, and control by ordinance all taverns, hotels, boarding-houses, cafes, restaurants soda-water founts, places for the sale of creams, ices, soda-water, and soft drinks of any character, or dealers in the same; livery-stables, sales-stables or lots, and owners or keepers of same; hacks, drays, jitneys, or other vehicles and operators of same; auctioneers, vendue-masters, itinerant tracers [sic], picture-shows, theaters, shows and exhibitions and fairs of all kinds, theatrical performances; dummy or street-railways, oil-mills, ice-works or factories, ginneries, grist-mills, flour mills, planning-mills [sic], sawmills, and all other kinds of mills; machine-shops wood-shops, black smith-shops, garages, and shops of any other kind; circuses, and owners or managers of same; lightning-rod-dealers, itinerant or otherwise, bill-posters, book-agents, peddlers of stoves, machines, or any article of merchandise; itinerant traders, emigrant agents, itinerant vendor of any and all kinds of goods, wares; merchandise, or other things, salesman offering for sale stock in oil companies or any corporation; pool-rooms, billiard-rooms, pool-tables, billiard-tables, and any and all kinds of tables for public play, bolling-alley, and every keeper of any thereof, and every keeper of any table, devices, stand, or place for the performance of any game or play, whether played with sticks, balls, rings, or other things and contrivances; upon flying jennies, merry-go-rounds, and other like contrivances, skating finks, dance-halls, or the owner or operator or keeper of any of them; dealers in bicycles, velocipedes, and other like vehicles; dealers in automobiles; insurance companies of any character, and agents representing any such companies, debenture companies, bond companies, and agents thereof; loan companies, and agents thereof, and loan agents for any and all kinds of business; oil companies and agents thereof; brokers and commission merchants of all kinds; dealers in petroleum oils of any character; dealers in lubricating oils, paints, or like articles; undertaking establishment, undertakers, newspapers, publishing companies, job-printing establishments; dealers in coffins and caskets, and undertaking supplies; dealers in futures; guano factories and dealers in guano or fertilizers of any kind; keepers of slaughter-pens; dealers in fresh fish and oysters; dealers in vegetables, fruits, breads, or other articles of food; dealers in coal, wood, ice, or any or all of them; owners or keepers of bakeries, plumbers; banks or bankers; telephone companies, telegraph companies, express companies, real-estate companies, or brokers; dealers in plumbers supplies, dealers in builders supplies; marble-yards, brick-yards, barber-shops, junk-shops, cotton warehouses, and any and all other kinds of warehouses, bottling-works, or the owners of any of such places; dealers in goods, wares, or merchandise of any character on the installment plan; dealers in lime, brick, cement, lumber, shingles, junk, or any of such articles, and all and every other business, agency, calling, vocation, trade, or dealer, not heretofore mentioned, and which under the constitution and laws of Georgia are subject to license and specific [sic]. The mayor and council shall have the right to fix and prescribe the amount of said taxes and license; to provide where the same shall be paid; to provide for the revocation of any or all licenses issued under this section; to provide for the enforcement and effectuating the provisions of this section, and to provide penalties for the violation of the provisions thereof.
(1927 Ga. Laws (Act No. 236), page 1241, § 52)
Editor's note— Specific business, and occupation taxes are regulated in O.C.G.A. § 48-13-2 et seq.
Sec. 53. - Registration of business, etc.
Be it further enacted, that said mayor and council shall have full power and authority to require any person, firm, or corporation, whether a resident or nonresident of the City of Kingsland, engaged in or carrying on or who may engage in or carry on any trade, business, vocation, or profession within the corporate limits of said city, either by themselves or by their agent or agents, to register their names and business, calling, vocation, or profession annually, and to require such person or firm or corporation to pay for such registration, and for license to prosecute, carry on, or engage in such business, calling, or profession such amount as the mayor and council may by ordinance require. Said mayor and council may by ordinance provide for the punishment of all persons, firms, or corporations who are required by ordinances to pay the said special tax and register, who shall engage in or offer or attempt to engage in such business, calling, or profession without first complying in all respects with the city ordinances in reference thereto.
(1927 Ga. Laws (Act No. 236), page 1241, § 53)
Sec. 54. - Tax rate; enforcement of collection.
The mayor and council of the City of Kingsland shall have power and authority to levy and collect a tax annually not to exceed one dollar and fifty ($1.50) cents on the one hundred ($100.00) dollars upon all and every species of property, both real and personal, within the limits of the City of Kingsland, including bonds, notes, debts, choses in action, money employed in banking and otherwise, and to enforce the collection of same by execution, levy and sale, as provided for by and under the laws of the State of Georgia, and as provided for by ordinance duly adopted by the mayor and council of said City.
(1927 Ga. Laws (Act No. 236), page 1241, § 54; 1963 Ga. Laws (Act No. 57), page 2189, § 1)
Sec. 55. - Tax assessors.
Be it further enacted, that said mayor and council shall, at their first meeting in March of each year, elect three intelligent, discreet and upright persons, citizens and qualified voters of said city, and owners of real estate therein, as city tax-assessors, whose terms of office shall be one year. Said city tax-assessor shall at any time be removed from office by the mayor and council, for good and sufficient cause to be judged by said mayor and council, and all vacancies occurring from any cause may be filled by the mayor and council at any time. It shall be the duty of said tax-assessors to assess the value of real estate in said city for the purpose of taxation by said city; and it shall be their duty to examine the tax-returns placed before them by the officers receiving the same, and increase the valuation of the personal property thereof when in their judgment the value placed thereon is too small. The mayor and council shall have the authority to prescribe rules for the government of said city tax-assessors. Said assessors shall make returns of the assessments made by them to the mayor and council each year at such time as the mayor and council may by ordinance direct. If any taxpayer is dissatisfied with the assessment made of his property either real or personal by said assessors, such taxpayer shall within ten days after the assessors have made their returns to the mayor and council, file written notice with the clerk of council of his dissatisfaction, and shall name in his said notice one arbitrator to represent him in fixing the value of his said property. Upon such notice being filed with the said clerk, it shall be the duty of the mayor to forthwith name an arbitrator to represent said city in fixing the value of the property in dispute, and the two arbitrators so elected shall be immediately notified by the city clerk and shall forthwith select an umpire, and the board of Arbitrators so constituted shall immediately proceed to give their awards as to the value of such property, which award shall be returned to the city clerk, and shall be final on both the city and taxpayer. The mayor and council shall have the power and authority to pass such ordinances as are required to effectuate this section.
(1927 Ga. Laws (Act No. 236), page 1241, § 55)
Editor's note— The value of property is determined as provided in O.C.G.A. § 48-5-352 et seq.
Sec. 56. - Tax collection generally.
Be it further enacted, that the mayor and council of said city shall have power and authority to provide by ordinance when the taxes of said city shall fall due in what length of time said taxes shall be paid, when tax executions shall issue against defaulters, and to fix a penalty for the non-payment of taxes when due.
(1927 Ga. Laws (Act No. 236), page 1241, § 56)
Sec. 57. - Power to prohibit idling, loitering, etc.
Be it further enacted that the mayor and council of said city shall have the right and authority, by ordinance, to prohibit idling, loitering, and loafing on the streets, alleys, lanes, squares, and sidewalks of said city, or upon any of them, and to prohibit the idling, loitering, and loafing in any of the public buildings in said city, and to prescribe penalties for the violation thereof.
(1927 Ga. Laws (Act No. 236), page 1241, § 57)
Sec. 58. - Weights and measures.
Be it further enacted, That the mayor and council of said city be and are hereby empowered and authorized to regulate by ordinances the selling, weighing, measuring of hay, wood, ice, coal, coke, and all other articles and commodities sold by weight or measure; to require dealers to keep honest weights and measures, to give full and honest weight and measures; to provide for the inspection and regulation of such weights and measures; to provide that the marshal and policeman of said city shall have the power and authority to stop wagons or drays loaded with any of such articles and commodities and have the same measured or weighed; and see if the articles or commodities thereon are of full weight or measure; and to prescribe penalties for any violation of this section or ordinance adopted effectuating the same. The provisions of this section shall also apply to persons who reside without the limits of the city, bringing any of said articles or commodities in said city for sale.
(1927 Ga. Laws (Act No. 236), page 1241, § 58)
Sec. 59. - Water and sewerage connections; filling wells.
The mayor and council of said city shall have full power and authority to compel any resident or nonresident or property owner, owning lands located within the legal limits of the city and adjacent to any of the streets of said city over which the city water or sewerage system or city water and sewerage systems may be located or hereafter extended, upon which lands houses are erected, or may be erected, and occupied either by the owner or by the tenants, to connect the same with the water or sewerage system or water and sewerage systems now laid out or hereafter laid out by said city, and to compel said property owners, or other owners controlling or using such building, to pay the expense of said connections when done by the city, which authority is hereby granted in the event such owner or other person fails or refuses to cause such connections to be made within such reasonable time as the mayor and council may direct, to use such water or sewerage facilities paying the rate duly established by ordinance for same; the city is hereby granted the right and authority to effect collections of moneys due for both installation and use in the same manner and under the same rules and regulations that the collection of taxes are enforced. The mayor and council of said city shall have the authority to require all surface-wells, dry-wells, or other places to be filled in at the expense of the owner; and should the owner fail or refuse to fill the same within a reasonable time as the mayor and council may direct, the same shall be done by the city, and the expense thereof shall be collected from the owner in the same manner and under the same authority as taxes are collected. The mayor and council are hereby authorized and empowered to enact such ordinances as may be necessary to fully effectuate the provisions of this section.
(1927 Ga. Laws (Act No. 236), page 1241, § 59; 1963 Ga. Laws (Act No. 57), page 2189, § 2)
Sec. 60. - Building regulations; permits.
Be it further enacted, that the mayor and council of said city shall have full power and authority to regulate the building or the repairing of any buildings within the corporate limits of said city or the removal thereof; to require persons desiring to build, repair, or remove buildings in said city to first obtain a permit from the mayor and council or from such officer as may be authorized to grant the same, before erecting, repairing, or removing same; to refuse to allow buildings to be erected, repaired, or removed in said city when satisfied that said buildings or addition thereto, or repairing thereof, or the removal of same will be manifestly against the best interests of the city, or will endanger the safety or health of the citizens, or likely to become a nuisance and offensive to the property-owners or residents of said city; to require applications for permits to be made and to prescribe how they shall be made, what they shall contain, and with whom filed; to provide for the removal, at the expense of the owners or builders of any houses erected, repaired, or removed in violation of such rules and regulations as may be prescribed by said mayor and council for the building, repairing, or removing houses in said city; and the mayor and council of said city are hereby authorized and empowered to enact all ordinances to carry out and effectuate the provisions of this section, and to provide a penalty for the violation of such ordinances.
(1927 Ga. Laws (Act No. 236), page 1241, § 60)
Sec. 61. - Parks.
Be it further enacted, that the said mayor and council shall have the full power and authority, by ordinance, to establish and maintain public parks in the streets of said city and at other places therein, as they may deem proper.
(1927 Ga. Laws (Act No. 236), page 1241, § 61)
Sec. 62. - Prisoners.
Be it further enacted, that said mayor and council shall have full power and authority to provide for the working of the convicts from the police court upon the streets and other public places and works of said city, to establish, equip, and maintain a city chain-gang, and prescribe rules and regulations for the proper management of same; to maintain, establish, and equip a city, jail or calaboose in said city for the safe-keeping of prisoners, convicts, and persons charged with violating the laws and ordinances of said city, and to provide for the feeding of such prisoners. The mayor and council shall have the authority to enact such ordinances necessary to carry out the provisions of this section.
(1927 Ga. Laws (Act No. 236), page 1241, § 62)
Sec. 63. - Fire department.
Be it further enacted, that said mayor and council shall have the power and authority by ordinance to create and establish a fire department in said city, to provide for the pay and equipment thereof, to purchase any necessary apparatus, and make any needful rules and regulations for its proper maintenance.
(1927 Ga. Laws (Act No. 236), page 1241, § 63)
Sec. 64. - Borrowing.
Be it further enacted, that the mayor and council of said city shall have the power and authority to borrow money for the use of said city by making a temporary loan to supply casual deficiency of revenue, not to exceed one fifth (1-5) of one (1) per cent of the assessed value of the taxable property therein in any one year; and it is further enacted that the sum or sums so borrowed shall be paid out of the income of the city for the fiscal year in which the loan or loans are made, and before the expiration of the fiscal year in which the same was or were made.
(1927 Ga. Laws (Act No. 236), page 1241, § 64)
Sec. 65. - City Code.
Be it further enacted, that the mayor and council of said city may codify all ordinances, resolutions and by-laws of said city, together with the charter of said city, into one book, to be known as the Code of the City of Kingsland; and when the same is adopted by said mayor and council, said code shall be admitted in evidence in any of the courts of this State, upon the certificate of the city clerk certifying the same to be the code of laws and ordinances of said city. The mayor and council shall have the power and authority to revise said code or recodify the laws and ordinances of said city whenever they may deem it necessary.
(1927 Ga. Laws (Act No. 236), page 1241, § 65)
Editor's note— The current law on codification of ordinances is found in O.C.G.A. § 36-80-19.
Sec. 66. - Bank as depository.
Be it further enacted that the mayor and council of said city may select some bank as a city depository and may require the treasurer of said city to deposit all funds of the city therein. Said depository may be selected upon such rules, regulations, conditions, and requirements as the mayor and council may by ordinance prescribe.
(1927 Ga. Laws (Act No. 236), page 1241, § 66)
Sec. 67. - Regulation [of] transportation for hire.
Be it further enacted, that the mayor and council of said city shall have the full right and power, by ordinance, to regulate all vehicles of every kind and description used in the city for hire or profit in the transportation of passengers, fright, drayage, either or all of them; to provide for the inspection of same, and to fix the rates of fare and carriages thereon, and to fix and prescribe penalties for violation thereof.
(1927 Ga. Laws (Act No. 236), page 1241, § 67)
Sec. 68. - Explosives or combustibles.
Be it further enacted, that the mayor and council of said city shall have the right, power, and authority by ordinance, to regulate the keeping of gunpowder, dynamite, petroleum oils, turpentine, and any and all other kinds of explosives or combustible materials; to regulate the sale and use of firecrackers, torpedoes, skyrockets, and any other kind of fireworks; or to prohibit the use or firing of them, or either of them, within the limits of said city, and to prescribe penalties for violations of such ordinances.
(1927 Ga. Laws (Act No. 236), page 1241, § 68)
Sec. 69. - Cemeteries.
Be it further enacted, that the mayor and council shall have exclusive jurisdiction over all cemeteries belonging to said city. They shall also have the right and authority to regulate the establishment of any cemetery in said city or extending or enlarging the boundaries of any cemetery now located in said city; and no new cemetery shall be established or located within the limits of said city except by approval and consent of the mayor and council thereof, and the boundaries and limits of any cemetery now located in said city shall not be extended or enlarged except by the consent and approval of said mayor and council.
(1927 Ga. Laws (Act No. 236), page 1241, § 69)
Sec. 70. - Matching for drinks, raffling, games for hazarding money, etc.
Be it further enacted, that the Mayor and Council of the City of Kingsland shall have the power and authority, by ordinance, to prohibit, within the limits of said city, the hazarding of money or other things of value at what is commonly known as "matching" to match for drinks, any and all other games (other than innocent games) for the hazarding of money or other things of value; to prohibit the owners, lessees, or occupants of buildings in said city from allowing or permitting persons to match for drinks, money, or other things of value therein, or to use other schemes for the hazarding of money or other things of value therein; to prohibit raffling in said city; and to prescribe penalties for the violation of any and all such ordinances.
(1927 Ga. Laws (Act No. 236), page 1241, § 70)
Sec. 71. - Arrests; right to break and enter houses.
Be it further enacted, that the marshal and policemen of said city shall have the right and authority, upon proper warrants, to break and enter any house or place in said city where they or either of them may have reason to suspect that any of the laws and ordinances of the city are being violated, and to arrest the persons therein and imprison or admit them to bail as hereinbefore provided for in cases of arrest.
(1927 Ga. Laws (Act No. 236), page 1241, § 71)
Sec. 72. - Auditor.
Be it further enacted, that the mayor and council of said city shall have the right, power, and authority to employ, at such times as they may deem necessary, an auditor to examine and audit the books of the city and each department thereof, and to pay a reasonable compensation therefor.
(1927 Ga. Laws (Act No. 236), page 1241, § 72)
Sec. 73. - Tax deeds; redemption.
Be it further enacted, that whenever any real property is sold under any process of the City of Kingsland, the officer making the sale shall have the power and authority to convey the same by proper conveyance to the purchaser; but all such property that may be sold under execution for city taxes shall be subject to redemption within the period allowed by law of property sold under execution for State and County taxes.
(1927 Ga. Laws (Act No. 236), page 1241, § 73)
Sec. 74. - Additional city officers.
Be it further enacted, that the mayor and council of said city shall have the right to elect such other municipal officers beside those herein specified as to them seem necessary and proper therefor when necessary, by ordinance, and in the same manner prescribing their duties and compensation and fixing their compensation.
(1927 Ga. Laws (Act No. 236), page 1241, § 74)
Sec. 75. - Salaries; increase, etc.
Be it further enacted, that the salaries of all city officers, when fixed and determined by the mayor and council in the manner prescribed in this Act and in the manner prescribed by the laws and ordinances of said city, shall not be increased or diminished during the terms of office for which such officers are elected.
(1927 Ga. Laws (Act No. 236), page 1241, § 75)
Sec. 76. - General powers.
Be it further enacted, that authority to carry out and effectuate by ordinance each and every power granted to the City of Kingsland in this Act is hereby expressly conferred on the mayor and council of said city; and said mayor and council shall have generally the power and authority to make and pass such rules, by-laws, and ordinances as shall appear to them necessary or requisite for preserving or promoting the peace, dignity, good order, and welfare of said City of Kingsland.
(1927 Ga. Laws (Act No. 236), page 1241, § 76)
Sec. 77. - Referendum as to adoption of Act.
Be it further enacted, that this Act shall not become effective until it is ratified by a majority vote of the registered qualified voters of said City of Kingsland, voting at an election to be called by the mayor and council of said city at a date not less than thirty days nor more than sixty days from September 1st, 1927. The clerk of said city shall make out and certify a registration list to be used at said election, placing on said list the names of all parties whose names appear on the registration list last made out by the county registrars, and who have resided in said city six months prior to September 1st, 1927. Said list so certified shall be filed with the mayor and council of said city ten days prior to said election. If at said election a majority of the registered qualified voters of said city, voting in said election, shall vote to ratify this Act, it shall become effective upon the returns of said election being filed with the mayor and council of said city and the result of said election places [sic] upon the minutes of said city. Should a majority of the registered qualified voters of said city, voting at said election, vote against the ratification of this Act, then same shall be void and shall not become effective.
(1927 Ga. Laws (Act No. 236), page 1241, § 77)
Sec. 78. - Repealer.
Be it further enacted, that all laws and parts of laws in conflict with this Act be and the same are hereby repealed.
(1927 Ga. Laws (Act No. 236), page 1241, § 78)
Sec. 79. - Regular meetings of mayor and council.
The mayor and council of the City of Kingsland are hereby granted the right and authority to determine and establish, by ordinance, a fixed regular monthly meeting day for the transaction of the business of said city, such meetings to be held at the duly established city hall in said city.
(1964 Ga. Laws (Act No. 630), page 2260, § 1)
[Sec. 80.] - Zoning and planning generally.
That pursuant to Ga. Const. art. 3, § 7, ¶ 26 [now Ga. Const. art. 9, § 2, ¶ 4], the City of Kingsland is hereby authorized to adopt ordinances and pass laws whereby the said City of Kingsland may be zoned and districted for various uses, and other or different uses prohibited therein, and regulating the use for which said zones or districts may be set apart, and regulating plans for the development and improvement of real estate therein, and to adopt all zoning and planning laws, not inconsistent with the Constitution, as said City may deem necessary or proper, to promote the public health, safety, morals, order, comfort or general welfare.
(1941 Ga. Laws (Act No. 193), page 156, § 1)
[Sec. 81.] - Contents of zoning regulations.
That the Mayor and Council of said City, for any one or more of the objects above named, may adopt by ordinances a plan or plans for the districting or zoning of said City for the purpose or regulating, defining and restricting;
(a)
the location of trades, industries, apartment-houses, dwellings, or other uses of property,
(b)
the height of buildings or other structures,
(c)
the area of dimensions of lots or yards used in connection with buildings or other structures,
(d)
the alignment of buildings or other structures near street frontages.
The zoning regulations may be based upon any one or more of said purposes.
The City may be divided into such number of zones or districts, and such districts may be of such shape and area as said Mayor and Council shall deem best suited to accomplish the intent of the zoning regulations. In the determination and establishment of districts and regulations, classifications may be based on the nature or character of the trade, industry, profession, or other activity conducted or to be conducted upon the premises, and within the said zone, the number of persons, families, or other group units to reside in or to use buildings, the public, quasi-public, or private nature of the use of premises, or upon any other basis or bases revelant to the promotion of the public health, morals, safety, order, propriety, or welfare.
(1941 Ga. Laws (Act No. 193), page 156, § 2)
[Sec. 82.] - Residential districts.
Said Mayor and Council shall be empowered in any districts proposed to be set aside primarily for residence purposes, to further classify the use thereof and to provide therein the class or classes of residents to be housed therein, and to provide therein such or similar regulations and restrictions as shall tend to secure the welfare, public health, morals, safety and good order of the City and the residents thereof.
(1941 Ga. Laws (Act No. 193), page 156, § 3)
[Sec. 83.] - Severability.
If any provision of this Act shall be held to be unconstitutional, such provision alone shall be invalid and the other parts of this Act shall be uneffected thereby, and shall remain in full force and effect.
(1941 Ga. Laws (Act No. 193), page 156, § 4)
[Sec. 84.] - Repealer.
All laws and parts of laws in conflict with this Act shall be and the same are hereby repealed.
(1941 Ga. Laws (Act No. 193), page 156, § 5)
