Chapter 12 - EMERGENCY MANAGEMENT[1]

Footnotes:
--- (1) ---
State Law reference— Emergency management, O.C.G.A. § 38-3-1 et seq.; local organization, O.C.G.A. § 38-3-27; local rules, O.C.G.A. § 38-3-28.

Sec. 12-1. - Definitions.
The following words, terms and phrases, when used in this chapter, shall have the meanings ascribed to them in this section, except where the context clearly indicates a different meaning:
Emergency management means the preparation for the carrying out of all emergency functions, other than functions for which military forces are primarily responsible, to prevent, minimize and repair injury and damage resulting from emergencies, energy emergencies, disasters or the imminent threat thereof, of manmade or natural origin, caused by enemy attack, sabotage, acts of domestic or international terrorism, civil disturbance, fire, flood, earthquake, wind, storm, wave action, oil spill or other water contamination requiring emergency action to avert danger or damage, epidemic, air contamination, blight, drought, infestation, explosion, riot or other hostile action, radiological action, or other causes. These functions include, without limitation, firefighting services; police services; emergency medical services; rescues; engineering; warning services; communications; defense from radiological, chemical, biological, and other special weapons to include weapons of mass destruction; evacuation of persons from stricken areas; emergency welfare services; consequence management functions to include victim services; emergency transportation; plant protection; temporary restoration of public utility services; and other functions related to civilian protection, together with all other activities necessary or incidental to the preparation for and carrying out of the foregoing functions.
(Code 1983, § 6-1; Code 2005, § 18-1)
State Law reference— Similar provisions, O.C.G.A. § 38-3-3.
Sec. 12-2. - Construction.
This chapter shall be construed liberally in order to effectuate its purposes.
(Code 1983, § 6-3; Code 2005, § 18-2)
Sec. 12-3. - Local office; Director.
In agreement with the governing officials of cities and/or towns within the County, there is established the Walker County Emergency Management Office. The Board of Commissioners, with concurrence of officials of cities and towns within the County, shall nominate, for appointment by the Director of the Georgia Emergency Management Agency, a local Director of Emergency Management for the entire County. When appointed, the Director is charged:
(1)
To represent the governing officials of the County and cities and/or towns therein on matters pertaining to emergency management.
(2)
With assisting County and city officials in organizing County, and where required, city departments for emergency operations.
(3)
With developing, in conjunction with other County departments, the County plan for the emergency functions set forth in section 12-1. Such plan will be in consonance with the State Emergency Management Plan and Program and shall be submitted to the County Commissioner for approval and thence to the State Director of Emergency Management for approval.
(4)
With maintaining the Emergency Management Office in carrying out the day-to-day administration of the County Emergency Management Program, including the rendering of required reports to the State Emergency Management Division.
(5)
With rendering reports such as financial, daily activity, etc., as required by governing officials in keeping with good business practices.
(6)
With procuring, with the authority of governing officials, a facility to be used as the County Emergency Operation Center.
(7)
With, during periods of a declared emergency, and under the supervision of County governing officials, coordinating the activities of the County Emergency Operation Center staff.
(Code 1983, § 6-4; Code 2005, § 18-3)
Sec. 12-4. - Emergency powers.
In the event of an actual enemy attack upon the United States or any other disaster which may affect the lives and property of the citizens of the County, the Chairperson or, in his absence, his legally appointed successor may declare that a state of emergency exists and thereafter shall have and may exercise, for such period as such state of emergency exists or continues, the following emergency powers:
(1)
Enforce all rules, laws and regulations relating to emergency management and assume direct operational control over all emergency management forces.
(2)
Seize, take for temporary use or condemn any property or supplies for the protection of the public.
(3)
Sell, lend, give or distribute all or any such property or supplies among the inhabitants of the County, maintain a strict accounting of property or supplies distributed and funds received for such property or supplies.
(4)
Perform and exercise such other functions and duties and take such emergency actions as may be necessary to promote and secure the safety, protection and well-being of the inhabitants of the County.
(Code 1983, § 6-6; Code 2005, § 18-5)
Sec. 12-5. - Volunteers.
All persons, other than officers and employees of the County, performing emergency functions pursuant to this chapter shall serve with or without compensation. While engaged in such emergency functions, volunteers shall have the same immunities as County officers and employees.
(Code 1983, § 6-7; Code 2005, § 18-6)
Sec. 12-6. - Violations; penalties.
Any person violating any provision of this chapter, or any rule, order or regulation made pursuant hereto, shall, upon conviction thereof, be punished as set forth in section 1-13.
(Code 1983, § 6-7; Code 2005, § 18-7)
