DIVISION 11. - WASTEWATER CHARGES AND FEES

Sec. 28-414. - Purpose.
A schedule of charges and fees shall be adopted by the Authority which will enable it to comply with the revenue requirements of the Clean Water Act. Charges and fees shall be determined in a manner consistent with regulations of the EPA Construction Grant Program in order that sufficient revenues are collected to defray the Authority's cost of operating and maintaining adequate wastewater collection and treatment systems and to provide sufficient funds for equipment replacement, capital outlay, bond service costs, capital improvements, and depreciation.
(Ord. of 12-11-2008, § 12-1)
Sec. 28-415. - Abutting property owners; to pay charges.
The owner or occupant of each lot or parcel of land which abuts upon a street or other public way containing a sanitary sewer upon which lot or parcel a building has been or may hereafter be constructed for residential, commercial, or industrial use shall pay the sewer service charges as provided in this division. The Authority or its designer shall make the determination whether or not a lot or parcel abuts upon a segment of street, alley, easement, or other public way in which there is a sewer for the purposes of levying service charges, provided that he may waive the collection of such charges where the connection is infeasible based upon engineering or hydraulic principles, the connection would not comport with applicable plumbing or building codes, or the connection would not comport with other applicable codes, laws, or regulations.
(Ord. of 12-11-2008, § 12-2)
Sec. 28-416. - Contracts for disposal of sewage authorized.
The Authority may enter into contracts with any municipality, county, incorporated district or person for the treatment and disposal of sewage collected and pumped or delivered to some part of the sewer system; provided, however, that the charges to be paid for the treatment and disposal of such sewage shall not be less than an amount which is fair and equitable, taking into account the cost to the Authority of such treatment and disposal and the cost of the sewage disposal system. All revenues received pursuant to such contract shall be deemed to be revenues of the sewer system and shall be applied and accounted for in the same manner as other revenues derived from the operation of such system.
(Ord. of 12-11-2008, § 12-3)
Sec. 28-417. - Secondary metering.
Whenever a property upon which a sewer user charge is imposed under this division uses water for an industrial or commercial purpose, which water so used is not discharged into the sewerage system of the Authority, the quantity of water so used and not discharged into the Authority's sewers shall be excluded in determining the sewer user charge of the owner or occupant, provided that the quantity of water so used and not discharged into the Authority sewers is measured by a device or meter (called a secondary meter) approved by the Authority and installed by the owner or occupant without cost to the Authority. The sewer user charge based upon the consumption of water to be paid by the owner or occupant of such property shall be computed at the rates provided in this division less the quantity not discharged into the Authority's sewers. The Authority reserves the right to require calibration of secondary meters when appropriate. A secondary meter shall meet the following requirements:
(1)
Meters should read in 100 cubic feet.
(2)
Meters must be located either in an outdoor meter box or vault, or inside the user's building or structure in a clean, dry, safe place not subject to wide temperature variations so that the meter can be easily examined, read, or removed.
(3)
The user shall, at its expense, provide suitable pipe connections and shut-off valves, 1 each at the inlet and outlet sides of the meter.
(4)
The meter box or vault must be constructed to protect the meter from freezing and damage by vehicular traffic, and its location and design shall prevent, as far as possible, the inflow of surface water.
(5)
Any changes in location of secondary meters, malfunctions, replacements, or any other changes in the approved secondary meter installation must be reported to the Authority in writing. Also, a copy must be forwarded to the water company containing all pertinent information regarding that particular meter.
(6)
No retroactive credits will be issued if the holder of the secondary meter permit fails to comply with the rules and regulations in force at any particular time.
(7)
If any water exempted from the sewer service charge is returned to the sewer system at any time or point, a metering device shall be installed. Any flow registered through such a meter shall be charged for sewer service.
(8)
Any secondary meter must be easily accessible by the Authority. If this is not possible, remote read meters shall be installed and protected from any magnetic interference. It is the responsibility of the permit holder to ensure the accuracy of the remote read to the installed meter.
(9)
All meters must be calibrated and certified for accuracy once every 18 months. The certification of the inspection or a copy thereof has to be forwarded to the Authority.
(Ord. of 12-11-2008, § 12-4)
Sec. 28-418. - Types of charges and fees.
The charges and fees established in the Authority's schedule of charges and fees may include, but not be limited to, the following:
(1)
Tap fees.
(2)
User charges and surcharges.
(3)
Fees for monitoring requested by user.
(4)
Fees for permit applications.
(5)
Fees for garbage grinders.
(6)
Fees for truck discharge operation permits.
(7)
Fees for discharge of holding tank wastes.
(8)
Inspection fees.
(Ord. of 12-11-2008, § 12-5)
Sec. 28-419. - Basis for determination of charges.
(a)
Charges and fees shall be based upon a minimum basic charge for each premises, computed on the basis of normal wastewater from a domestic premises with the following characteristics:
EXPAND
Parameter Normal Wastewater Concentration
(mg/L)
Chickamauga Chattanooga Lafayette
BOD 5 500 300 400
COD 1,200 — 800
Suspended solids 400 400 375
  (b)
The charges and fees for all users other than the basic domestic premises shall be based upon the relative difference between the average wastewater constituents and characteristics of that user as related to those of a domestic premises.
(c)
The charges and fees established for permit users shall be based upon the measured or estimated constituents and characteristics of the wastewater discharge of that user which may include, but not be limited to, BOD, COD, suspended solids, oil and grease, and volume.
(Ord. of 12-11-2008, § 12-6)
Sec. 28-420. - User charges.
Each user of the Authority's sewer system will be levied a charge for payment of bonded indebtedness of the Authority and for the user's proportionate share of the operation, maintenance, and replacement (OM&R) costs of the sewer system. A surcharge may be levied against those users with wastewater that exceeds the strength of normal wastewater.
(1)
OM&R user charges. The user charge will be computed from a base charge plus a surcharge. The base charge will be the user's proportionate share of the costs of OM&R for handling its periodic volume of normal wastewater plus the user's share of the bond amortization costs of the Authority.
(2)
Computation of charges. Each user's share of OM&R costs will be computed by the following formula:
EXPAND
Cu = Ct (Vu)
Vt
  Where:
Cu = User's charge for OM&R per unit of time.
Ct = Total OM&R cost per unit of time, less cost recovered from surcharges.
Vt = Total volume contribution from all users per unit of time.
Vu = Volume contribution from a user per unit of time.
(3)
Bonded indebtedness charges. Each user's share of bonded indebtedness costs will be based on a schedule which reflects the user's volumetric and/or waste strength contribution to the system.
(4)
User surcharges. The surcharge will be the user's proportionate share of the OM&R costs for handling its periodic volume of wastewater which exceeds the strength of BOD 5 , SS, and/or other elements in normal wastewater as defined by section 28-419. The amount of the surcharge will be determined by the following formula:
Cs = (Bc x B + Sc x S + Pc x P) 8.34 Vu
Where:
Cs = Surcharge for wastewaters exceeding the strength of normal wastewater expressed in dollars per billing period.
Bc = OM&R cost for treatment of a unit of BOD 5 expressed in dollars per pound.
B = Concentration of BOD 5 from a user above that of normal wastewater, expressed in mg/L.
Sc = OM&R cost for treatment of a unit of SS expressed in dollars per pound.
S = Concentration of SS from a user above that of normal wastewater, expressed in mg/L.
Pc = OM&R cost for treatment of a unit of any pollutant which the POTW is committed to treat by virtue of an NPDES Permit or other regulatory requirement, expressed in dollars per pound.
P = Concentration of any pollutant from a user above that of normal wastewater, expressed in mg/l. Base levels for pollutants subject to surcharges will be established by the Authority.
Vu = Volume contribution of a user per billing period in million gallons based on a 24-hour average for billing period.
a.
The concentrations of any pollutant of an industrial user and the volume contribution of that user shall be calculated from discharge monitoring reports subject to verification by the Authority, from records maintained by the industrial user, and from reliable information obtained from any other source.
b.
The values of parameters used to determine user charges may vary from time to time. Therefore, the Authority is authorized to modify any parameter or value as often as is necessary. Review of all parameters and values shall be undertaken when necessary, but in no case less frequently than annually.
(5)
Pretreatment program charges. Industrial users may be required to pay a separate pretreatment program charge. The pretreatment program charge will be based on the user's proportional share of the costs of administering the POTW pretreatment program, which includes costs incurred by the Authority for verification monitoring, analysis, and reporting. Each user's share of the pretreatment program costs will be computed by the following formula:
EXPAND
Cu = Ct (Vu)
Vt
  Where:
CU = User's charge for POTW pretreatment program per unit of time.
Ct = Total POTW pretreatment program costs per unit of time.
Vt = Total volume contribution of permitted industrial users per unit of time.
Vu = Volume contribution from a permitted industrial user per unit of time.
(6)
Multi-unit complexes. To provide more equality between single-family and multi-unit dwellings (with just 1 or less number of water meters than the total number dwelling units in complex), sewer service charges to multi-unit apartment complexes served by master meters or any combination of meters totaling less than the number of units served shall be charged by the following formula:
U[adj] x S[c] x O[c]
Where:
U[adj] = U[tot]/O[c]
U[tot] = Total usage of individual meter or master meter.
O[c] = The number of units served by the referenced meter times a 90 percent occupancy rate.
S[c] = The user charge as detailed in this section.
(Ord. of 12-11-2008, § 12-7)
Sec. 28-421. - Review of OM&R charges.
The Authority shall review at least annually the wastewater contribution by users, the total costs of OM&R of the treatment works, and its approved user charge system. The Authority shall revise the user charges to accomplish the following:
(1)
Maintain the proportionate distribution of OM&R costs among users or classes of users.
(2)
Generate sufficient revenue to pay the total OM&R costs of the treatment works.
(3)
Apply any excess revenues collected to the costs of O&M for the next year and adjust the rate accordingly.
(Ord. of 12-11-2008, § 12-8)
Sec. 28-422. - Charges for extraneous flows.
The costs of O&M for all flow not directly attributable to users (e.g., infiltration/inflow) will be distributed proportionally among all users of the treatment works.
(Ord. of 12-11-2008, § 12-9)
Sec. 28-423. - Notification, billing, and collection.
(a)
Notification. Each user will be notified, at least annually, in conjunction with a regular bill of the rate and that portion of the user charges which are attributable to OM&R charges.
(b)
Billing. Wastewater charges imposed by this division shall be added to, included in, and collected with the monthly water service bills, and shall be due and payable monthly. This shall not affect the right of the Authority to collect wastewater charges from customers who utilize private or public water supplies from other utilities and who discharge wastewater to the Authority.
(c)
Collection. Wastewater charges and fees imposed by this division shall be collected by the Authority in a manner established by the Board.
(d)
Delinquent accounts. The Authority may discontinue water service to any customer who has a delinquent wastewater charge until such wastewater charge has been paid, except as provided by State or Federal law.
(e)
Adjustments. The Authority shall make appropriate adjustments in the wastewater charge of sewer customers for over or under registration of Authority meters, leaks, or other recognized adjustments.
(f)
Appeals. A user may contest a credit or billing determination by the Authority by paying said bill under protest and within 30 days following the due date of said bill lodging with the Authority a written notice of appeal with the Board. The appeal shall follow the procedures in section 28-348.
(Ord. of 12-11-2008, § 12-10)
Secs. 28-424—28-444. - Reserved.
