ARTICLE I. - IN GENERAL

Sec. 22-1. - Definitions.
The following words, terms and phrases, when used in this chapter, shall have the meanings ascribed to them in this section, except where the context clearly indicates a different meaning:
Planning Director or Director means the Planning Director of Walker County, Georgia, or designee.
Sec. 22-2. - Southeast Tennessee Development District.
(a)
The County Board of Commissioners is authorized to become a member of the Southeast Tennessee Development District and to subscribe in behalf of the County to its purposes and objectives in cooperation with the membership of said district.
(b)
The intent of this section is to strengthen the economic development of the County and its relationship with both the Southeast Tennessee Development District and the Coosa Valley Area Planning and Development Commission.
(Code 1983, § 12-1; Code 2005, § 34-1)
Sec. 22-3. - Codes adopted.
(a)
Each construction code listed in subsections (a)(1) through (4) of this section is hereby adopted by reference as if set forth in its entirety. The following minimum standard codes as approved by the State of Georgia include any attachments, future editions, indexes, supplements and amendments, including local amendments adopted by Walker County. Notwithstanding the above, none of the appendices to the standard codes are adopted, unless they are subsequently affirmatively approved by the Governing Authority of Walker County.
(1)
International Building Code.
(2)
International Energy Conservation Code.
(3)
International Residential Code.
(4)
National Electrical Code.
(b)
The codes adopted in this section shall apply, except such portions as may be deleted, modified or amended in this chapter. At least 1 copy of such codes is to be filed in the office of the County Clerk and is authenticated by his signature and by the seal of Walker County. The provisions thereof shall be controlling within the unincorporated limits of Walker County.
(Ord. No. O-04-20, 11-19-2020)
Secs. 22-4—22-24. - Reserved.
