Chapter 1 - GENERAL PROVISIONS[1]

Footnotes:
--- (1) ---
State Law reference— Home rule power of counties, Ga. Const. art. IX, § II, ¶ I; construction of statutes, O.C.G.A. § 1-3-1 et seq.; authority of municipality to adopt ordinances, resolutions or regulations, O.C.G.A. § 36-35-3.

Sec. 1-1. - Designation and citation of Code.
(a)
The ordinances, resolutions and other enactments embraced in the following chapters and sections shall constitute and be designated as "The Code of Walker County, Georgia," and may be so cited.
(b)
This entire compilation, consisting of parts I and II and any appendices, shall constitute and be designated as "The Code of Walker County, Georgia," or the "Walker County Code," and may be so cited.
(Code 1983, § 1-1; Code 2005, § 1-1)
State Law reference— Codification requirements, O.C.G.A. § 36-80-19.
Sec. 1-2. - Definitions and rules of construction.
In the construction of this Code, the following rules shall be observed, unless such construction would be inconsistent with the manifest intent of the Board of Commissioners:
Generally. In the interpretation and application of any provision of this Code, it shall be held to be the minimum requirement adopted for the promotion of the public health, safety, convenience and general welfare. Where any provision of the Code imposes greater restrictions upon the subject matter than the general provision imposed by this Code, the provision imposing the greater restriction or regulation shall be deemed to be controlling.
Code. The term "Code" means The Code of Walker County, Georgia, as designated in section 1-1.
Board of Commissioners, Commissioners, or Governing Authority. The term "Board of Commissioners," "Commissioners," or "Governing Authority" means the Board of Commissioners of Walker County, Georgia.
Chairperson. The term "Chairperson" means the Chairperson of the Board of Commissioners of Walker County, Georgia.
Computation of time. When a number of days is prescribed for the exercise of any privilege or the discharge of any duty, the first or last day shall not be counted, and if the last day falls on Saturday or Sunday, the person having such privilege or duty shall have through the following Monday to exercise the privilege or to discharge the duty. When the last day prescribed for such action falls on a public and legal holiday as set forth in O.C.G.A. § 1-4-1, the person having the privilege or duty shall have through the following day to exercise the privilege or to discharge the duty; however, when the following day is a Saturday or Sunday, the person shall have through the following Monday to exercise the privilege or to discharge the duty.
Conjunctions. In a provision involving 2 or more items, conditions, provisions or events, which items, conditions, provisions or events are connected by the conjunction "and," "or" or "either … or," the conjunction shall be interpreted as follows, except that in appropriate cases the terms "or" and "and" are interchangeable:
(1)
"And" indicates that all the connected terms, conditions, provisions or events apply.
(2)
"Or" indicates that the connected terms, conditions, provisions or events apply singly or in any combination.
(3)
"Either … or" indicates that the connected terms, conditions, provisions or events apply singly but not in combination.
County. The term "the County" or "this County" means Walker County, Georgia.
Day. The term "day" means a calendar day of 24 hours.
Delegation of authority. Whenever a provision appears requiring the head of a department of the County to do some act, it is to be construed to authorize the head of the department to designate, delegate and authorize subordinates to perform the required act unless the terms of the provision or section designate otherwise.
Gender. The masculine gender includes the feminine and the neuter.
Joint authority. A joint authority given to 3 or more persons may be executed by a majority of them.
Keeper and proprietor. The terms "keeper" and "proprietor" include persons, firms, associations, corporations, receivers, trustees, personal representatives, clubs and partnerships, whether acting by themselves or through a servant, agent or employee.
Month. The term "month" means a calendar month.
Nontechnical and technical terms. Terms and phrases shall be construed according to the common and approved usage of the language, but technical terms and phrases and such others as may have acquired a peculiar and appropriate meaning in law shall be construed and understood according to such meaning.
Number. The singular or plural number shall each include the other.
Oath. The term "oath" shall be construed to include an affirmation in all cases in which, by law, an affirmation may be substituted for an oath, and in such cases, the terms "swear" and "sworn" shall be equivalent to the terms "affirm" and "affirmed."
O.C.G.A. The abbreviation "O.C.G.A." means the Official Code of Georgia Annotated, as amended.
Offices, departments, etc. Whenever titles of various offices, departments or other agencies are used, they shall refer to the persons holding such offices, departments or agencies of Walker County, Georgia.
Owner. The term "owner," when applied to a building or land, includes any part owner, joint owner, tenant in common or tenant in partnership of the whole or of a part of such building or land.
Person. The term "person" extends and is applied to associations, clubs, societies, firms, partnerships and bodies politic and corporate, as well as to individuals.
Personal property. The term "personal property" includes every species of property, except real property, as herein described.
Preceding, following. The terms "preceding" and "following" mean next before and next after, respectively.
Premises. The term "premises" means a place or places.
Property. The term "property" includes real and personal property.
Public place. The term "public place" means any park, cemetery, school yard or open space adjacent thereto, or any area available and/or accessible to the public, regardless of whether privately or publicly owned.
Real property. The term "real property" includes lands, tenements and hereditaments.
Residence. The term "residence" shall be construed to mean the place adopted by a person as his place of habitation, and to which, whenever he is absent, he has the intention of returning. When a person eats at 1 place and sleeps at another, the place where such person sleeps shall be deemed his residence.
Seal. The term "seal" means the County seal.
Shall, may. The term "shall" shall be mandatory; and the term "may" shall be permissive.
Sidewalk. The term "sidewalk" means any portion of a street between the curbline and the adjacent property line, intended for the use of pedestrians.
Signature and subscription. The terms "signature" and "subscription" of a person include a mark of an illiterate or infirm person.
State. The term "the State" or "this State" means the State of Georgia.
Street. The term "street" means the entire width between boundary lines of every way publicly maintained when any part thereof is open to the use of the public for purposes of vehicular travel.
Tenant and occupant. The terms "tenant" and "occupant," when applied to a building or land, include any person holding a written or oral lease or who occupies the whole or a part of such building or land, either alone or with others.
Tense. The present or past tense shall include the future.
Week. The term "week" means 7 days.
Written and in writing. The terms "written" and "in writing" include any representation of words, letters or figures, whether by printing or otherwise.
Year. The term "year" means a calendar year.
(Code 1983, § 1-2; Code 2005, § 1-2)
State Law reference— Construction of statutes, O.C.G.A. § 1-3-1 et seq.; terms "sidewalk" and "street" defined, O.C.G.A. § 40-1-1.
Sec. 1-3. - Section catchlines; history notes; editor's notes; references.
(a)
The catchlines of the several sections of this Code printed in boldface type are intended as mere catchwords to indicate the contents of the section and shall not be deemed to be titles of such sections, nor as any part of the section, nor, unless expressly so provided, shall they be so deemed when any of such sections, including the catchlines, are amended or reenacted.
(b)
The history or source notes appearing in parentheses after sections in this Code are not intended to have any legal effect but are merely intended to indicate the source of matter contained in the section. Cross references, State enabling legislation references, State law references and editor's notes which appear after sections or subsections of this Code or which otherwise appear in footnote form are provided for the convenience of the user of this Code and have no legal effect.
(c)
All references to chapters, articles or sections are to the chapters, articles and sections of this Code unless otherwise specified.
(Code 1983, § 1-3; Code 2005, § 1-3)
State Law reference— Notes and catchlines of code sections not part of law, O.C.G.A. § 1-1-7.
Sec. 1-4. - Applicability of Code.
The provisions of this Code, unless otherwise clearly specified, shall apply only in the unincorporated areas of the County.
Sec. 1-5. - Statutory rules of construction.
Except as otherwise provided in this Code, the same rules shall be applied in construing provisions of this Code, and ordinances and resolutions of this County, as are applied in construing the statutes of this State, which rules are found in O.C.G.A. §§ 1-3-1—1-3-3, and the same meanings are to be given words found in the ordinances as are given similar words found in the statutes of this State.
(Code 1983, § 1-4; Code 2005, § 1-4)
Sec. 1-6. - Effective date of ordinances and resolutions.
Ordinances and resolutions which do not provide for their taking effect at a different time take effect immediately after their passage, or as otherwise provided by law.
(Code 1983, § 1-5; Code 2005, § 1-5)
Sec. 1-7. - Effect of repeal of ordinances and resolutions.
(a)
The repeal of an ordinance or resolution shall not revive any ordinance or resolution in force before or at the time the ordinance repealed took effect.
(b)
The repeal of an ordinance or resolution shall not affect any punishment or penalty incurred before the repeal took effect, nor any suit, prosecution or proceeding pending at the time of the repeal for an offense committed or cause of action arising under the ordinance or resolution repealed, nor any right acquired, or liability incurred under any ordinance or resolution repealed.
(Code 1983, § 1-6; Code 2005, § 1-6)
Sec. 1-8. - Provisions not affected by Code.
Nothing in this Code or the ordinance adopting this Code shall be construed to repeal or otherwise affect the validity of any of the following:
(1)
Any offense or act committed or done, or any penalty or forfeiture incurred or any contract or right established or accruing before the effective date of this Code.
(2)
Any ordinance, resolution, motion or order promising or guaranteeing the payment of money for the County or authorizing the issuance of any bonds of the County or any evidence of the County's indebtedness.
(3)
Any contract or obligation assumed by the County.
(4)
Any right or franchise granted by the County.
(5)
Any ordinance, resolution, motion or order relating to specific public improvements or assessments therefor.
(6)
Any ordinance, resolution, motion or order providing for the levy or collection of taxes or for an annual budget or appropriations.
(7)
Any ordinance, resolution, motion or order pertaining to zoning or utilities.
(8)
Any ordinance, resolution, motion or order relating to the investment of County funds.
(9)
Any ordinance, resolution, motion, order, rule or regulation prescribing regulations, compensation, positions, classifications, and other matters pertaining to County officers or employees, not inconsistent herewith.
(10)
Any ordinance, resolution, motion or order dedicating or accepting any plat or subdivision in the County.
(11)
Any ordinance, resolution, motion or order naming, renaming, opening, closing, prescribing grades, etc., of streets, roads, bridges and other public ways.
(12)
Any ordinance, resolution, motion or order establishing utility connection charges, deposits, service charges or other charges not inconsistent with this Code.
(13)
Any ordinance, resolution, motion or order creating, establishing, prescribing or abolishing housing authorities, urban renewal projects and minimum housing standards.
(14)
Any ordinance, resolution, motion or order not inconsistent with this Code prescribing or providing traffic regulations at specific places, such as speed limits, through streets, stop intersections, yield intersections, one-way travel, no left turns, no right turns, traffic control by electrical devices, truck routes, loading zones, no parking zones and limited parking zones, and this enumeration is not to be by way of exclusion.
(15)
Any ordinance, resolution, motion or order pertaining to or providing for subdivision regulations, or airport hazard districts.
All such ordinances, resolutions, etc., are hereby recognized as continuing in full force and effect to the same extent as if set out at length herein.
(Code 1983, § 1-12; Code 2005, § 1-7)
Sec. 1-9. - Altering Code.
It shall be unlawful for any person to change or amend, by additions or deletions, any part of this Code, or to insert or delete pages or portions thereof, or to alter or tamper with such Code in any manner whatsoever (except by ordinance or resolution or other official act of the Board of Commissioners or the General Assembly) which will cause the law of the County to be misrepresented.
(Code 1983, § 1-9; Code 2005, § 1-8)
State Law reference— Altering, falsifying or stealing public records unlawful, O.C.G.A. § 45-11-1.
Sec. 1-10. - Severability of parts of Code.
The sections, paragraphs, sentences, clauses and phrases of this Code, and of codes or other provisions adopted by reference herein, are severable, and if any such phrase, clause, sentence, paragraph or section shall be declared invalid by the valid judgment or decree of any court of competent jurisdiction, such invalidity shall not affect any of the remaining phrases, clauses, sentences, paragraphs and sections of this Code and provisions adopted by reference, since the same would have been enacted by the Board of Commissioners without the incorporation therein of any such invalid phrase, clause, sentence, paragraph or section.
(Code 1983, § 1-7; Code 2005, § 1-9)
State Law reference— Severability, O.C.G.A. § 1-1-3.
Sec. 1-11. - Amendments to Code; new provisions.
(a)
All ordinances and resolutions passed subsequent to this Code which amend, repeal or in any way affect this Code may be numbered in accordance with the numbering system of this Code and printed for inclusion herein. In the case of repealed chapters, sections and subsections or any part thereof by subsequent ordinances and resolutions, such repealed portions may be excluded from the Code by omission from reprinted pages affected thereby. The subsequent ordinances and resolutions as numbered and printed, or omitted in the case of repeal, shall be prima facie evidence of such subsequent ordinances and resolutions until such time that this Code and subsequent ordinances and resolutions numbered or omitted are readopted anew by the Board of Commissioners.
(b)
Amendments to any of the provisions of this Code may be made by amending such provisions by specific reference to the section number of this Code in the following language: "That section ___ of The Code of Walker County, Georgia, is hereby amended to read as follows: …." The new provisions may then be set out in full as desired.
(c)
In the event a new section not heretofore existing in the Code is to be added, the following language may be used: "That The Code of Walker County, Georgia, is hereby amended by adding a section (or article or chapter) to be numbered ___, which section reads as follows: …." The new section may then be set out in full as desired.
(d)
All sections, articles, chapters or provisions desired to be repealed should be specifically repealed by section, article or chapter number, as the case may be.
(Code 1983, § 1-8; Code 2005, § 1-10)
Sec. 1-12. - Supplementation of Code.
(a)
By contract or by County personnel, supplements to this Code shall be prepared and printed whenever authorized or directed by the Board of Commissioners. A supplement to the Code shall include all substantive parts of permanent and general ordinances and resolutions passed by the Board of Commissioners during the period covered by the supplement and all changes made thereby in the Code. The pages of a supplement shall be so numbered that they will fit properly into the Code and will, where necessary, replace pages which have become obsolete or partially obsolete, and the new pages shall be so prepared that, when they have been inserted, the Code will be current through the date of the adoption of the latest ordinance or resolution included in the supplement.
(b)
In preparing a supplement to this Code, all portions of the Code which have been repealed shall be excluded from the Code by the omission thereof from reprinted pages.
(c)
When preparing a supplement to this Code, the codifier (meaning the person, agency or organization authorized to prepare the supplement) may make formal, nonsubstantive changes in ordinances, resolutions and parts thereof included in the supplement, insofar as it is necessary to do so to embody them into a unified code. For example, the codifier may:
(1)
Organize ordinances and resolutions into appropriate subdivisions.
(2)
Provide appropriate catchlines, headings and titles for sections and other subdivisions of the Code printed in the supplement, and make changes in such catchlines, headings, and titles.
(3)
Assign appropriate numbers to sections and other subdivisions to be inserted in the Code and, where necessary to accommodate new material, change existing section or other subdivision numbers.
(4)
Change the term "this ordinance," "this resolution" or terms of the same meaning to "this chapter," "this article," "this division," etc., as the case may be, or to "sections ___ to ___" (inserting section numbers to indicate the sections of the Code which embody the substantive sections of the ordinances and resolutions incorporated into the Code).
(5)
Make other nonsubstantive changes necessary to preserve the original meaning of the ordinance or resolution sections inserted into the Code, but in no case shall the codifier make any change in the meaning or effect of material included in the supplement or already embodied in the Code.
(Code 1983, § 1-11; Code 2005, § 1-11)
Sec. 1-13. - General penalty; continuing violations.
(a)
In this section, the term "violation of this Code" means:
(1)
Doing an act that is prohibited or made or declared unlawful, an offense or a misdemeanor by ordinance or by rule or regulation authorized by ordinance;
(2)
Failure to perform an act that is required to be performed by ordinance or by rule or regulation authorized by ordinance; or
(3)
Failure to perform an act if the failure is declared a misdemeanor or an offense or unlawful by ordinance or by rule or regulation authorized by ordinance.
(b)
In this section, the term "violation of this Code" does not include the failure of a County officer or County employee to perform an official duty unless it is provided that failure to perform the duty is to be punished as provided in this section.
(c)
Whenever in this Code or in any ordinance, rule, regulation or order of the County any act is prohibited or is made or declared to be unlawful or an offense, or whenever in the Code or any ordinance, rule, regulation or order the doing of any act is required or the failure to do any act is declared to be unlawful, where no specific penalty is provided therefor, the violation of that provision of the Code or any ordinance, rule, regulation or order shall be punished by the proper court by the imposition of a fine not to exceed $1,000.00, or imprisonment for not more than 6 months, or any combination thereof.
(d)
The imposition of a fine or penalty does not prevent revocation or suspension of a license, permit or franchise.
(e)
Violations of this Code that are continuous with respect to time are a nuisance and may be abated by injunctive or other equitable relief. The imposition of a fine or penalty does not prevent equitable relief.
(f)
Each day any violation of this Code shall continue shall constitute a separate offense.
(Code 1983, § 1-10; Code 2005, § 1-12)
State Law reference— Punishment for misdemeanors, O.C.G.A. § 17-10-3; nuisances, O.C.G.A. title 41; magistrate courts, O.C.G.A. § 15-10-1 et seq.; violation of county ordinances, O.C.G.A. § 15-10-60 et seq.; maximum punishments which may be imposed for violations of county ordinances, O.C.G.A. § 36-1-20(b); county responsibility for sentencing and maintenance of inmates, O.C.G.A. § 42-5-51(a).
Sec. 1-14. - Jurisdiction and venue.
(a)
Jurisdiction for any and all citations for ordinance violations, civil actions to abate nuisances, or any other legal action or enforcement measures arising under this Code or under any other County ordinance or regulation shall be in the Magistrate Court of Walker County.
(b)
Venue for all citations for ordinance violations and any other legal proceedings initiated by the County arising under this Code or under any other County ordinance or regulation shall be in the Magistrate Court of Walker County.
(c)
Any defendant who is charged with 1 or more ordinance violations may, at any time before trial, demand that the case be removed for a jury trial to the State Court of Walker County. Such a demand shall be written. Upon such a demand the Court shall grant the demand. Failure to demand removal of the case shall constitute a waiver of any right to trial by jury which the defendant may otherwise have.
(d)
Prosecutions for violations of County ordinances shall be upon citation or upon accusation by the County attorney or such other attorney as the County Governing Authority may designate. Such attorney shall be the prosecuting attorney in cases tried upon accusation.
(e)
Ordinance violations may be tried upon accusations or citations with or without a prosecuting attorney as provided in O.C.G.A. § 15-10-63(a).
(Ord. of 10-18-2007, § 1-13; Ord. No. O-02-18, § 1-13, 7-26-2018)
Sec. 1-15. - Appeals.
(a)
Unless otherwise specified by State law, any party wishing to appeal any decision of the Magistrate Court concerning an ordinance or any other provision of this Code shall do so by certiorari to the Superior Court of Walker County, and such application shall specify any alleged errors of law or fact by the Magistrate Court.
(b)
If the Superior Court of Walker County accepts the discretionary appeal, the Superior Court may set the case on the docket of the next available non-jury trial calendar or motions day.
(c)
If the appellant has been levied a fine by the Magistrate Court, he must post a cash bond equal to the fine with the clerk of appellate court.
(Ord. of 10-18-2007, § 1-14; Ord. No. O-02-18, § 1-14, 7-26-2018)
Sec. 1-16. - Provisions considered as continuations of existing legislation.
The provisions appearing in this Code, so far as they are the same as those of ordinances and resolutions existing as of the effective date of this Code, shall be considered as continuations thereof and not as new enactments.
Sec. 1-17. - Code does not affect prior offenses, penalties, rights.
(a)
Nothing in this Code or the ordinance adopting this Code shall affect any offense or act committed or done, or any penalty or forfeiture incurred, or any contract or right established or accruing before the effective date of this Code.
(b)
The adoption of this Code shall not be interpreted as authorizing or permitting any use or the continuance of any use of a structure or premises in violation of any ordinance in effect on the date of adoption of this Code.
Sec. 1-18. - Interpretation of Code.
In all interpretations of this Code, and ordinances, the courts shall look diligently for the intention of the Board of County Commissioners, keeping in view, at all times, the old law, the evil, and the remedy. Grammatical errors shall not vitiate, and a transposition of words and clauses may be resorted to when the sentence or clause is without meaning as it stands.
Sec. 1-19. - Substantive compliance with Code.
A substantial compliance with any requirement of the Code, or ordinances, especially on the part of public officers, shall be deemed and held sufficient, and no proceeding shall be declared void for want of such compliance, unless expressly so provided by the enactment.
Sec. 1-20. - Rates, charges, and fees established.
(a)
Unless otherwise provided for, all rates, charges, or fees necessary for the administration and enforcement of the provisions of this Code shall be as currently established or as hereafter adopted by motion, resolution or ordinance of the Board of County Commissioners, from time to time. Any rates, charges, or fees established by the County pursuant to the regulations or requirements established herein may be changed from time to time by the Board of County Commissioners, and such changes shall both be considered an amendment to this Code.
(b)
Whenever any provision of this Code provides that a rate, charge, or fee shall be established by the Board of County Commissioners, from time to time, and the amount of such rate, charge, or fee is not expressed in this Code in any dollar amount, then the amount of such rate, charge, or fee shall be the most recent and latest amount established, set or fixed by the Board of County Commissioners by ordinance, resolution or motion.
