ARTICLE III. - CHATTAHOOCHEE RIVER TRIBUTARY PROTECTION

Sec. 42-60. - Article adopted.
This article is adopted pursuant to the requirements of O.C.G.A. § 12-5-453.
(Code 2004, § 34-111(intro. ¶); Ord. of 10-7-2004, § 34-111)
Sec. 42-61. - Findings.
The city council finds that:
(1)
The Chattahoochee River provides multiple public benefits, which include use of the river as the primary water supply for metropolitan Atlanta.
(2)
The water quality of the Chattahoochee River depends upon the waste quality of the flowing streams tributary to the river.
(3)
Sediment and other polluting materials and conditions, including but not limited to pesticides, nutrients such as nitrogen and phosphorus, toxic materials, and elevations in water temperature are harmful to the water quality of the river and its tributaries.
(4)
The riparian vegetation along these watercourses helps preserve water quality, dense tree growth helps to prevent stream bank erosion, and streamside vegetation reduces the amount of sediment and other polluting materials that would otherwise wash into streams. Riparian trees, by shading, help maintain cooler water temperatures and thus enhance water quality.
(Code 2004, § 34-111(1); Ord. of 10-7-2004, § 34-111(1))
Sec. 42-62. - Purposes.
The purposes of this article are:
(1)
To promote the public health and general welfare;
(2)
To minimize public and private losses due to erosion and water pollution; and
(3)
To maintain stream water quality in specific areas by provisions designed to:
a.
Create vegetative buffer areas adjacent to tributary streams in the drainage area of the Chattahoochee Corridor.
b.
Minimize land disturbing activities within such buffer areas by requiring issuance of a permit for such activities.
(Code 2004, § 34-111(2); Ord. of 10-7-2004, § 34-111(2))
Sec. 42-63. - Definitions.
The following words, terms and phrases, when used in this article, shall have the meanings ascribed to them in this section, except where the context clearly indicates a different meaning:
Chattahoochee River tributary protection area and protection area mean the stream channel and the land area extending outward 35 horizontal feet from the banks on either side of all flowing streams in the drainage basin of all tributaries of the Chattahoochee River which enter the Chattahoochee River downstream from Buford Dam and upstream from Peachtree Creek, except for such land within the Chattahoochee Corridor.
Flowing stream means any stream which is designated and shown as permanent on the 7.5-minute quadrangle maps of the U.S. Department of the Interior, U.S. Geological Survey, plus any stream which the city council may determine to be, and designate as, a flowing stream.
Land disturbing activity means scraping, plowing, clearing, dredging, grading, excavating, transporting, or filling of land or placement of any structure or impervious surface, dam, obstruction or deposit.
Ordinance enforcement officer (OEO) means an employee of the city, charged with the responsibility of enforcing ordinances within the corporate limits of the city. The OEO, as defined herein, includes any person properly delegated by the mayor and city council to perform his duties or functions as authorized by law.
Parcel means any plot, lot or acreage shown correctly as a unit on the latest county tax assessment records.
Person means any individual, partnership, corporation, trust, entity, or authority and shall include their agents or contractors, the state, its political subdivisions and all its departments, boards, bureaus, commissions or other agencies.
Watershed means the land area which drains into a particular stream
(Code 2004, § 34-111(3); Ord. of 10-7-2004, § 34-111(3))
State Law reference— Similar provisions, O.C.G.A. § 12-5-441.
Sec. 42-64. - Establishment of protection area.
The Chattahoochee River tributary protection area within the city, hereinafter referred to as the "protection area," is established. The designated protection area shall be shown on the official map of the city.
(Code 2004, § 34-111(4); Ord. of 10-7-2004, § 34-111(4))
Sec. 42-65. - Permit.
(a)
Obtaining a written permit from the OEO. No person shall engage in any land disturbing activity in a protection area without first having obtained a written permit from the OEO of the city.
(b)
Exceptions. The permit provisions of this article shall not apply to:
(1)
Emergency work. Emergency work necessary to preserve life or property. When emergency work is performed under this section, the person performing it shall report the pertinent facts relating to the work to the OEO of the city on the next business day after commencement of the work. Within ten days thereafter, the person shall apply for a permit and perform such work within such time period as may be determined by the OEO to be reasonably necessary to correct any impairment such emergency work may have caused to the water conveyance capacity, stability, or water quality of the protection area.
(2)
Repair or maintenance of land. Work consisting of the repair or maintenance of any lawful use of land which is zoned and approved for such use on the date of adoption of the ordinance from which this article is derived or January 1, 1984, whichever is earlier.
(c)
Application for a permit. A separate application for a permit shall be made to the OEO on a form approved by the OEO for each land disturbing activity, except that only one application need be made for two or more such acts which are to be done on the same parcel. The application shall include a map of the site and such information concerning the proposed action as the OEO deems necessary to describe the nature and extent of the proposed action and to determine the effect of the proposed action on the protection area.
(d)
Issuance of permit. No application for a permit shall be approved and no permit shall be issued for any land disturbing activity within the protection area unless the land disturbing activity is for the purpose of constructing one of the following:
(1)
A stream crossing by a driveway, transportation route, or public utility;
(2)
A dam and/or impoundment;
(3)
A detention, retention, or sediment control pond or facility;
(4)
The land disturbing activity is within a right-of-way of any public agency pursuant to a permit issued by such public agency; or
(5)
The OEO finds and determines that a minimum amount of land disturbance necessary for the beneficial use of the parcel has been proposed.
(e)
Conditions. In each permit issued under the provisions of this article, the OEO shall include conditions designed to:
(1)
Limit erosion, sedimentation, and water pollution within the protection zone to amounts and rates no greater than those occurring before the land disturbing activity; and
(2)
Preserve, protect, or replace the maximum feasible amount of natural vegetation.
(f)
Variance. The city council shall grant no variance from any provision of this article without first conducting a public hearing on the application for a variance and authorizing the granting of the variance by majority vote of the full membership of the city council. The city council shall give public notice of each such public hearing at least two weeks prior to the hearing in a newspaper of general circulation within the city.
(g)
Responsibility. Neither the issuance of a permit nor compliance with the conditions thereof, nor with the provisions of this article, shall relieve any person from any responsibility otherwise imposed by law for damage to persons or property; nor shall the issuance of any permit hereunder serve to impose any liability upon the city, its officers or employees, for injury or damage to persons or property. A permit issued pursuant to this article does not relieve the permittee of the responsibility of securing and complying with any other permit which may be required by any other city ordinance or state law.
(h)
Term of permit, extension, renewal. The permittee shall complete the work authorized by the permit within the time limits specified in the permit, which in no event shall extend more than 12 months from the date of issuance. The permittee shall notify the OEO at least 72 hours prior to the commencement of work. Should the work not be commenced and completed within the time limits, then the permit shall become void; provided, however, that if prior to the date established for commencement of work, the permittee makes a written request to the OEO for an extension of time to commence the work, setting forth the reasons for the required extension, the OEO may grant such extension. A permit which has become void may be renewed at the discretion of the OEO.
(i)
Inspection.
(1)
The OEO may cause inspections of the work to be made periodically during the course thereof and shall make a final inspection following completion of the work. The permittee shall assist the OEO in making such inspections. The city shall have the power to conduct such investigations as it may reasonably deem necessary to carry out its duties as prescribed in this article, and for this purpose to enter at reasonable times upon any property, public or private, for the purpose of investigating and inspecting the sites of any land disturbing activities within a protection area.
(2)
No person shall refuse entry or access to any authorized representative or agent who requests entry for purposes of inspection, and who presents appropriate credentials, nor shall any person obstruct, hamper or interfere with any such representatives while in the process of carrying out official duties.
(j)
Performance bond. Prior to the issuance of any permit for land disturbing activities within the protection area, the applicant shall submit a performance and maintenance bond which shall ensure compliance with all terms and conditions of the permit. The bond shall pertain to and recite therein an exact description of the property in question. The length of time for which the bond shall be valid shall be determined by the OEO, and shall be specified on the face of the bond. The bond shall be in an amount equal to twice the estimated cost for carrying out the land disturbing activity in compliance with all terms and conditions of the permit. The sum of the bond shall be made payable to the city. The bond shall be provided by a bonding company licensed and registered in the state.
(Code 2004, § 34-111(5); Ord. of 10-7-2004, § 34-111(5))
Sec. 42-66. - Penalties.
(a)
Failure to obtain a permit for land disturbing activity. If any person commences any land disturbing activity requiring a land disturbing permit as prescribed in this article without first obtaining said permit, that person shall be subject to revocation of the business license, work permit, building permit or other authorization for the conduct of business and associated work activities within the jurisdictional boundaries of the city.
(b)
Stop work orders. Upon notice from the OEO work on any project that is being done contrary to the provisions of this article shall be immediately stopped. Such notices shall be in writing and shall be given to the owner of the property, his authorized agent or the person or persons in charge of the activity on the property, and shall state the conditions under which work may be resumed or the site restored to its original condition or its equivalent. Where an emergency exists, no written notice shall be required.
(c)
Performance bond forfeiture. If, through inspection, it is determined that a person engaged in land disturbing activities has failed to comply with the terms and conditions of the permit, a written notice to comply shall be served upon that person. The notice shall set forth the measures necessary to achieve compliance with the permit and shall state the time within which such measures must be completed. If the person engaged in the land disturbing activity fails to comply within the time specified, he shall be deemed in violation of this article and, in addition to other penalties, his performance bond shall be subject to forfeiture.
(d)
Suspension, revocation or modification of permit. The permit may be suspended, revoked or modified by the OEO upon finding that the holder is in violation of the permit or any portion of this article.
(e)
Civil penalties. Any person violating any provision of this article, permitting conditions of the land on which the violation occurs shall be liable for a civil penalty of not less than $100.00 a day or not to exceed $1,000.00 per day. Each day a violation occurs shall be considered a separate and distinct violation.
(Code 2004, § 34-111(6); Ord. of 10-7-2004, § 34-111(6); Ord. No. O-79-08, 5-15-2008)
Sec. 42-67. - Administrative appeal; judicial review.
(a)
Administrative appeal. Any person aggrieved by a decision or order of the OEO shall be entitled to a hearing before the city council within 45 days after receipt by the OEO of written notice of appeal.
(b)
Judicial review. Any person aggrieved by a decision or order of the OEO, after exhausting his administrative remedies, shall have the right to appeal de novo the superior court of the county.
(Code 2004, § 34-111(7); Ord. of 10-7-2004, § 34-111(7))
Secs. 42-68—42-91. - Reserved.
