Chapter 38 - MUNICIPAL COURT[1]

Footnotes:
--- (1) ---
Charter reference— Incorporation and powers, article 1: powers and construction, § 1.12; exercise of powers, § 1.13; administrative affairs, article 3: city attorney, § 3.12; city clerk, § 3.13; judicial branch, article 4.
State Law reference— Power and jurisdiction of municipal courts generally, Ga. Const. art. VI, § I, ¶ I; municipality has authority to establish and maintain a court, O.C.G.A. § 36-32-1 et seq.

Sec. 38-1. - Scope of jurisdiction.
The court for the city shall be called the municipal court of the city, and its scope of jurisdiction shall include the following:
(1)
The municipal court shall try and punish violations of the city Code, the city Charter, all city ordinances, and such other violations as provided by law.
(2)
The municipal court shall have authority to punish those in its presence for contempt, provided that such punishment shall not exceed $200.00 or ten days in jail.
(3)
The municipal court may fix punishment for offenses within its jurisdiction not exceeding a fine of $1,000.00 or imprisonment for 60 days or both such fine and imprisonment or may fix punishment by fine, imprisonment, or alternative sentencing as now, or hereafter provided by law. Each day a violation occurs shall be considered a separate and distinct violation.
(4)
The municipal court shall have authority to establish a schedule of fees to defray the cost of operation, and shall be entitled to reimbursement of the cost of meals, transportation, and caretaking of prisoners bound over to superior courts for violations of state law.
(5)
The municipal court shall have authority to establish bail and recognizances to ensure the presence of those charged with violations before said court, and shall have discretionary authority to accept cash or personal or real property as surety for the appearance of persons charged with violations. Whenever any person shall give bail for any person's appearance and the person for whom bail is given shall fail to appear at the time fixed for trial, the bond shall be forfeited by the judge presiding at such time, and an execution issued thereon by serving the defendant and the defendant's sureties with a rule nisi, at least two days before a hearing on the rule nisi. In the event that cash or property is accepted in lieu of bond for security for the appearance of a defendant at trial, and if such defendant fails to appear at the time and place fixed for trial, the cash so deposited shall be on order of the judge declared forfeited to the city, or the property so deposited shall have a lien against it for the value forfeited which lien shall be enforceable in the same manner and to the same extent as a lien for city property taxes.
(6)
The municipal court shall have the same authority as superior courts to compel the production of evidence in the possession of any party; to enforce obedience to its orders, judgments, and sentences; and to administer such oaths as are necessary.
(7)
The municipal court may compel the presence of all parties necessary to a proper disposal of each case by the issuance of summonses, subpoenas, and warrants which may be served as executed by any officer as authorized by this Charter or by law.
(8)
Each judge of the municipal court shall be authorized to issue warrants for the arrest of persons charged with offenses against any ordinance of the city, and each judge of the municipal court shall have the same authority as a magistrate of the state to issue warrants for offenses against state laws committed within the city.
(Code 2004, § 5-101; Ord. No. O-69-08, 5-15-2008)
State Law reference— Presiding officer of municipal court has authority to commit offenders of criminal law to jail, O.C.G.A. § 17-7-22; municipal court right has and power to determine cases involving violations of criminal laws relating to traffic on the public roads, O.C.G.A. § 40-13-21(a); municipal court has exclusive jurisdiction over cases involving traffic misdemeanors within corporate limits of municipality, O.C.G.A. § 40-13-29.
Sec. 38-2. - Appointment of qualifications of judge.
(a)
The municipal court shall be presided over by a parttime or fulltime chief judge and such parttime, fulltime, or standby judges as shall be provided by the city council and mayor. Terms of office shall be one year.
(b)
No person shall be qualified or eligible to serve as a judge on the municipal court unless that person shall have attained the age of 21 years, shall be a member of the state bar and shall possess all qualifications required by law. All judges shall be appointed by the mayor with city council approval and shall serve until a successor is appointed and qualified.
(c)
Judges serve at will and may be removed from office at any time by the city council unless otherwise provided by ordinance.
(d)
Before assuming office, each judge shall take an oath, given by the mayor or city attorney, that the judge will honestly and faithfully discharge the duties of the office to the best of that person's ability and without fear, favor or partiality. The oath shall be entered upon the city council minutes.
(Code 2004, § 5-102)
Sec. 38-3. - Compensation.
Compensation of the judges shall be established by the city council.
(Code 2004, § 5-103)
Sec. 38-4. - Bailiff.
The bailiff of the municipal court shall be appointed by the mayor, by and with the advice and consent of city council. The duties of the bailiff shall consist generally of seeing that the courtroom is in proper condition for sessions of court, of assisting in keeping order while court is in session, and of doing such other acts of assistance as may be required by the judge of the court and the city clerk.
(Code 2004, § 5-104)
Sec. 38-5. - Record of cases.
A record of all cases heard in the municipal court for violation of this Code or other municipal ordinances shall be kept in a suitable bound volume by the city clerk. Such record shall contain the name of the defendant, the nature of the offense charged, the final disposition of the case, and the date of final disposition.
(Code 2004, § 5-105)
Sec. 38-6. - Service of summons.
Any person charged with violating any city ordinance shall receive notice by service of a summons as herein provided. Such summons may be issued by the city clerk, the ordinance enforcement officer, or any police officer of the city. The summons shall be directed to the accused and shall distinctly state the offense charged, the time and place, as far as practicable, of the offense charged, and the day, hour, and place of trial, requiring the accused to appear before the judge of the municipal court to answer the accusation made. Service of the summons shall be made by the ordinance enforcement officer, a police officer or police chief of the city either by serving the accused personally or by leaving a copy at his most notorious place of abode, except that in the case of a summons issued for violation of laws or ordinances relating to the parking of motor vehicles, such summons may be directed to an unknown person as owner of an automobile designated in the summons and may be served upon such person by leaving a copy in or attached to such automobile.
(Code 2004, § 5-106)
Sec. 38-7. - Subpoenas.
The city clerk shall issue subpoenas for the appearance of all witnesses necessary for the prosecution or for the defense in any case pending before the municipal court. All subpoenas shall be served in the same manner as a summons.
(Code 2004, § 5-107)
Sec. 38-8. - Failure to obey summons or subpoena.
Any person who fails to appear at the time and place set out in any summons or subpoena served upon him may be subject to contempt of court and, upon conviction thereof, may be punished for same at the discretion of the judge.
(Code 2004, § 5-108)
Sec. 38-9. - Arrest and bond.
When a police officer has arrested any person for violation of any provision of this Code or any municipal ordinance and a trial cannot be had immediately, the officer may take a cash bond not exceeding the maximum fine for the offense—or a bond with a good security—for the appearance of such person before the judge of the municipal court. If such person fails or refuses to give a bond, the officer may confine him in the county jail until a trial can be held, provided that the judge, in his discretion, may release such person on such person's own recognizance without security.
(Code 2004, § 5-109)
Sec. 38-10. - Forfeiture of bond.
Upon the failure of a person to appear in the municipal court at the time and place fixed by the summons, the judge of said court shall enter a judgment of forfeiture on any cash bond, or, in the case of a security bond, shall pass a rule requiring the principal and surety on such bond to show cause on the date named therein, which date shall not be less than ten days from the passage of such ruling, why they should not be required to pay the amount of said bond. If no sufficient cause is shown, the judge shall enter judgment against the principal and surety for the amount of the forfeited bond and shall direct the city clerk to issue execution thereon.
(Code 2004, § 5-110)
Sec. 38-11. - Court costs.
The costs which shall be charged against a defendant in the municipal court in the event of his conviction shall not exceed $500.00, which sum shall be paid into the city treasury.
(Code 2004, § 5-111)
Sec. 38-12. - Collection of fines.
When directed by the judge of the municipal court, the city clerk shall issue executions for fines imposed by said court, including the costs, which executions may be levied upon any goods or chattels, lands, or tenements of the person so fined.
(Code 2004, § 5-112)
Sec. 38-13. - Effect of absence or disqualification of judge.
In the event of the absence or disqualification of the municipal court judge, the municipal court judgeship shall be vacant until a new judge is appointed according to this Code.
(Code 2004, § 5-113)
Sec. 38-14. - Certiorari.
The right of certiorari from the decision and judgment of the municipal court shall exist in all criminal cases and ordinance violation cases, and such certiorari shall be obtained under the sanction of a judge of the superior court of the county under the laws of the state regulating the granting and issuance of writs of certiorari.
(Code 2004, § 5-114)
