Chapter 8 - FIRE PROTECTION AND PREVENTION[1]
Footnotes:
--- (1) ---
Cross reference— Buildings and building regulations, Ch. 5; fireworks, § 11-5; police, Ch. 12; streets and sidewalks, Ch. 15; traffic, Ch. 17.
State Law reference— Authority to provide police and fire protection, Ga. Const. art. IX, § II, ¶ III(a); The Uniform Act for the Application of Building and Fire Related Codes to Existing Buildings, O.C.G.A. § 8-2-200; providing of fire escapes by building owners, O.C.G.A. § 8-2-50; obstruction or hindering of firefighters, O.C.G.A. § 16-10-24.1; regulation of fire and other hazards to persons and property generally, O.C.G.A. § 25-2-1 et seq.; local fire departments generally, O.C.G.A. § 25-3-1 et seq.; firefighter standards and training, O.C.G.A. § 25-4-1 et seq.; mutual aid resource pacts, O.C.G.A. § 25-6-1; regulation of fireworks, O.C.G.A. § 25-10-1 et seq.

ARTICLE I. - IN GENERAL

Sec. 8-1. - Adoption of fire prevention code.
(a)
For the purpose of prescribing regulations governing conditions hazardous to life and property from fire, explosion, or exposure to hazardous materials, the city adopts the 1987 edition of NFPA 1, Fire Prevention Code of the National Fire Protection Association, together with its incorporated standards and codes as listed in Annex A of such code and together with appendices A, B, E, H, I and K, save and except such portions as are deleted in the sections that follow.
(b)
Such code and appended material are hereby incorporated by reference and referred to throughout this article as the NFPA Fire Prevention Code.
Sec. 8-2. - Annual appropriation for fire department.
For the support and maintenance of the fire department, the board of commissioners shall annually make a proper appropriation in its discretion for the fire department.
(Code 1969, § 8-1)
Sec. 8-3. - Personnel; care of equipment.
The fire chief shall have authority to appoint assistants and employees subject to approval of the city manager. The fire chief shall have the care and management of its respective hoses, ladders, hooks and apparatus for extinguishing fires.
(Code 1969, § 8-2)
Sec. 8-4. - Authority of fire chief or acting chief at fires.
The chief of the fire department shall have supreme and absolute control and command of the fire department at all fires, and in his absence the assistant chief shall be vested with his authority, and in the absence of both the above-named officers, the same authority shall devolve through the proper chain of command as designated by the fire chief.
(Code 1969, § 8-3)
Sec. 8-5. - Obstructing fire station or appurtenances.
It shall be unlawful for any person to willfully put any trash or other obstructions in front of any fire house, or other appurtenance of or belonging to the fire department.
(Code 1969, § 8-4)
Sec. 8-6. - Persons allowed at fire scene.
It shall be unlawful for any person, except firefighters, the city manager, members of the police force, owners or agents of the property endangered by fire, and interested insurance company representatives, to be within the immediate limits of operation during the progress of any fire in the city, unless ordered there by the officers in command of the fire department or officers of the city.
(Code 1969, § 8-5)
State Law reference— Obstruction or hindering of firefighters, O.C.G.A. § 16-10-24.1.
Sec. 8-7. - Injuring fire apparatus.
It shall be unlawful for any person to willfully or intentionally drive over, injure or damage in any way or by any means whatever, any engine, hose, hook, ladder or other implement, material or apparatus belonging to, connected with or used by any fire company in the city as a part of its machinery for extinguishing fires.
(Code 1969, § 8-6)
State Law reference— Crossing fire hose, O.C.G.A. § 40-6-248.
Secs. 8-8—8-25. - Reserved.
ARTICLE II. - HAZARDOUS DWELLINGS[2]

Footnotes:
--- (2) ---
State Law reference— Authority for municipalities to repair, close or demolish unfit buildings or structures, O.C.G.A. § 41-2-7 et seq.

Sec. 8-26. - Authority to condemn.
Any dwelling house perilous to life or property by reason of its rundown condition, lack of repair, its contents or other hazardous conditions, likely to cause the spreading of fire or impede the combatting of fire, may be condemned.
(Ord. of 11-9-76, § 1)
Sec. 8-27. - Examination of dwelling; notice to owner to correct defects.
Whenever the board of commissioners has information that there is within the city any dwelling house which is a fire hazard, it shall cause an examination to be made. If after such report or inspection by the board it is determined that the building is a hazard, the board shall serve notice on the owner and the person in possession directing him to repair, make safe or demolish the building and thereby eliminate such hazard.
(Ord. of 11-9-76, § 2)
Sec. 8-28. - Failure to comply with notice; issuance of summons.
Upon the failure of the owner or person in possession to obey the notice served pursuant to section 8-27, the board of commissioners shall cause a summons to be served on the owner or person in possession requiring him to show cause at a time and place designated in such notice, but not less than ten (10) days from the date of service thereof, why the dwelling should not be condemned.
(Ord. of 11-9-76, § 3)
Sec. 8-29. - Hearing; presentation of evidence.
At a hearing under this article the city and the owner may present evidence to the board of commissioners concerning the condition of the building and the complaint of the city that same constitutes a fire hazard. After consideration of the evidence, the city may permit the owner to take steps to repair or make safe the building or it may adjudge that it be condemned.
(Ord. of 11-9-76, § 4)
Sec. 8-30. - Demolition order.
If after the hearing under this article the board of commissioners determines that the dwelling cannot be repaired or put in a safe condition, it may render a judgment that the dwelling be demolished by the owner within a specified number of days, but not less than sixty (60) days from the date of judgment, and that upon the owner's failure to demolish it, the city may accomplish the demolition at the expense of the owner.
(Ord. of 11-9-76, § 5)
Sec. 8-31. - Factors of consideration; standards.
In passing on the question of condemning a dwelling, the board of commissioners shall be guided by these standards as to the condition of the dwelling:
(1)
Whether the dwelling is occupied or vacant;
(2)
The general state of repair;
(3)
The materials from which the building was constructed and its fire potential;
(4)
Deteriorated or inadequate foundations;
(5)
Defective or deteriorated flooring or floor supports;
(6)
Members of walls, partitions or other vertical supports that are of insufficient size or condition to carry loads with safety;
(7)
Ceilings, roof supports and roofs that may be inadequate to hold the weight they were designed or placed to hold;
(8)
Fireplaces or chimneys which list, bulge or settle due to defective materials or deterioration, or are of insufficient size or strength to carry imposed loads with safety;
(9)
Members of ceilings, roof or walls, or other members in the building which sag, split or buckle due to defective material or deterioration;
(10)
Deteriorated or defective exterior walls, roof, foundations, floors, broken windows, doors, deteriorated and crumbling plaster;
(11)
Broken, rotted, split or buckled exterior wall coverings or roof coverings;
(12)
Any part or portion of the dwelling which is in a condition to cause a fire or explosion or provide a ready fuel to augment the spread and intensity of fire or explosion arising from any cause.
(Ord. of 11-9-76, § 6)
Sec. 8-32. - Justification of condemnation.
Before condemning a dwelling, the board of commissioners must find that the same violates the standards set forth in section 8-31 and its judgment shall specify the conditions which justify its condemnation.
(Ord. of 11-9-76, § 7)
Sec. 8-33. - Posting of notices, orders.
All notices and decisions under this article shall be posted on the dwelling itself in a conspicuous place thereon in addition to the service of notice required to the owner. If the owner resides outside of the city, notice may be served by certified mail at his last known address.
(Ord. of 11-9-76, § 8)
Sec. 8-34. - Demolition by city—Recovery of costs.
If it shall be necessary after condemnation for the city to demolish the dwelling at its expense, costs for such demolition shall be recorded and charged to the owner. Should the owner fail to pay the costs promptly, the city clerk shall issue execution in favor of the city, which shall issue and be levied as executions for taxes in the city are issued and levied. Such executions may be recorded in the office of the clerk of the superior court of the county and constitute a lien against the property.
(Ord. of 11-9-76, § 9)
Sec. 8-35. - Same—Notice of intent to owner, occupant.
Should the city demolish the hazardous structure, it shall give the owner and the person in possession at least fifteen (15) days' notice of its intention to do so before actual destruction begins.
(Ord. of 11-9-76, § 10)
Sec. 8-36. - Penalty.
If any owner fails to comply with any decision of the board of commissioners under this article after proper notice, he is subject to punishment as for violation of the ordinances of this city.
(Ord. of 11-9-76, § 11)
