ARTICLE IV. - INDUSTRIAL BUILDING AUTHORITY[4]

Footnotes:
--- (4) ---
Editor's note— Printed herein is 1963 Ga. Laws, page 697, which amended the state constitution to provide for creation of the Hart County Industrial Building Authority. The authority was continued in force and effect by 1985 Ga. Laws, page 4453. Amendments to the act are indicated by parenthetical history notes following amended provisions. The absence of a history note indicates that the provision remains unchanged from the original act. Obvious misspellings have been corrected without notation. For stylistic purposes, a uniform system of headings, catchlines and citations to state statutes has been used. Additions made for clarity are indicated by brackets.
Code cross reference—Authorities, boards and commissions, § 2-136 et seq.

Section 1. - Created; members; terms; powers; bonds; funds; property; intent; effective date.
A.
There is hereby created a body corporate and politic in Hart County to be known as the Hart County Industrial Building Authority, which shall be an instrumentality of Hart County and a public corporation and which in this amendment is hereafter referred to as the authority.
B.
The authority shall consist of five (5) members, one of whom shall be the chairman of the board of finance [board of commissioners] of Hart County; one of whom shall be the mayor of the City of Hartwell; one of whom shall be the president of the chamber of commerce of Hart County, or its successor and two of whom shall be appointed by the three other members first above mentioned.
(1)
The terms of office of the members who are the chairman of the board of finance [board of commissioners] of Hart County, the mayor of the City of Hartwell and the president of the chamber of commerce of Hart County or its successor shall run concurrently with their respective tenures of such offices in said bodies, and their respective successors in such offices shall succeed them as members of the said authority.
(2)
The two members initially appointed by the three other members first above mentioned shall be appointed for terms of five years. The respective successors of said two members shall be appointed for terms of five years and the said two members shall be eligible for reappointment. In the event of the death or resignation of either one of said appointed members, the successor shall be appointed by the remaining members for the balance of the unexpired term. No vacancy shall impair the power of the authority to act.
C.
The property, obligations and the interest on the obligations of the authority shall have the same immunity from taxation as the property, obligations and interest on the obligations of Hart County.
D.
The powers of the authority shall include, but not be limited to the power:
(1)
To receive and administer gifts, grants and donations and to administer trusts;
(2)
To borrow money, to issue notes, bonds and revenue certificates, to execute trust agreements or indentures, and to sell, convey, mortgage, pledge and assign any and all of its funds, property and income as security therefor;
(3)
To contract with political subdivisions of the State of Georgia and with private persons and corporations and to sue and be sued in its corporate name;
(4)
To have and exercise usual powers of [a] private corporation except such as are inconsistent with this amendment, including the power to appoint and hire officers, agents and employees and to provide their compensation and duties, which officers and agents may or may not be members of the authority, and the power to adopt and amend a corporate seal and bylaws and regulations for the conduct and management of the authority;
(5)
To encourage and promote the expansion and development of industrial and commercial facilities in Hart County so as to relieve insofar as possible unemployment within its boundaries, and to that end to acquire by purchase or gift any building or structure within the limits of Hart County, suitable for and intended for use as a factory, mill, shop, processing plant, assembly plant, or fabricating plant, including all necessary and appurtenant lands and appurtenances thereto, and all necessary or useful furnishings, machinery and equipment. Such acquisition may be through the acquisition of land and the construction thereon of a building, including the demolition of existing structures, or through the acquisition of an existing building and the remodeling, renovating, reconstruction, furnishing and equipping of such building;
(6)
No building acquired hereunder shall be operated by the authority but shall be leased or sold to one or more persons, firms or corporations.
If sold, the purchase price may be paid at one time or in installments falling due in not more than thirty (30) years from the date of transfer of possession. The lessee or purchaser shall be required to pay all costs of operating and maintaining the building or buildings and to pay rentals or installments sufficient, together with other revenues which may be pledged for the purpose, to retire all bonds, both principal and interest, and to pay all other expenses which the authority may have incurred in connection with the undertaking.
(7)
To accumulate its funds from year to year and to invest accumulated funds in any manner that public funds of the State of Georgia or any of its political subdivisions may be invested;
(8)
To designate officers to sign and act for the authority generally or in any specific matter;
(9)
To do any and all acts and things necessary or convenient to accomplish the purpose and powers of the authority as herein stated.
E.
The authority shall not be authorized to create in any manner any debt, liability or obligation against the State of Georgia or Hart County.
F.
The members of the authority shall receive no compensation for their services to the authority.
G.
In order to finance any undertaking within the scope of its power or to refund any bonds then outstanding, the authority is hereby authorized to issue bonds bearing rate or rates of interest and maturing at the years and amounts determined by the authority and the procedure of validation, issuance and delivery shall be in all respects in accordance with the Revenue Bond Law (1937 Ga. Laws, page 761) as amended, Ga. Code Ann. Supp. chapter 87-8 [O.C.G.A. § 36-82-60], as if said obligations had been originally authorized to be issued thereunder; provided, however, that any property, real or personal, of the authority may be pledged, mortgaged, conveyed, assigned, hypothecated or otherwise encumbered as security for any lawful debt of the authority. The authority may execute any trust agreement or indenture not in conflict with the provisions of this amendment to provide security for any bonds issued as provided herein, and such trust agreement or indenture may provide for foreclosure or forced sale of any property of the authority upon default on such bonds either in payment of principal or interest or under any term or condition under which such bonds are issued. Nothing herein contained shall be construed to create a right to compel any exercise of the taxing power of Hart County to pay any such bonds or the interest thereon nor to enforce payment thereof against any property of Hart County.
H.
The authority may authorize additional bonds, for extensions and permanent improvements to any industrial building acquired hereunder, to be placed in escrow and to be negotiated from time to time as proceeds for that purpose may become necessary. Bonds so placed in escrow shall, when sold and delivered, have such standing with the bonds of the same issue as may be provided in the authorizing proceedings.
I.
No bonds except refunding bonds shall be issued hereunder unless the authority shall have found and declared that the undertaking for which the bonds are to be issued will increase employment in Hart County.
J.
No moneys derived by the authority from any source other than gifts and contributions from private individuals, firms or corporations shall at any time be used for entertainment, or other promotional expenses.
K.
Should said authority for any reason be dissolved, title to all property of every kind and nature, real and personal, held by the authority at the time of such dissolution shall revert to Hart County subject to any mortgages, liens, leases or other encumbrances outstanding against or in respect to said property at that time.
L.
This amendment is adopted for the purpose of promoting and expanding for the public good and welfare industry and trade within Hart County and reducing unemployment to the greatest extent possible, and this amendment and any law enacted with reference to the authority shall be liberally construed for the accomplishment of these purposes.
M.
This amendment shall be effective immediately upon proclamation of its ratification by the governor and the first members of the authority shall be appointed within thirty (30) days after such proclamation.
N.
The general assembly may by law further define and prescribe the powers and duties of the authority and the exercise thereof, and may enlarge and restrict the same, and may likewise further regulate the management and conduct of the authority. The authority shall be an instrumentality of Hart County and the scope of its operations shall be limited to the territory embraced within said county. The general assembly shall not extend the jurisdiction of the authority nor the scope of its operations beyond such limits.
Editor's note— The following provisions, comprising sections 1 through 7, derive from 1979 Ga. Laws, page 3052, which defined additional powers and duties of the industrial building authority.
Section 1. - Statutory authority.
This statute is enacted pursuant to authority contained in paragraph N of the amendment to article V, section IX of the Constitution of 1945 (1963 Ga. Laws, page 697), creating and empowering the Hart County Industrial Building Authority which was continued in force and effect as a part of the Constitution of 1976 pursuant to the provisions of paragraph II of section I of article XIII of said Constitution of 1976 (said constitutional amendment being hereinafter referred to as the "constitutional amendment").
Section 2. - Powers.
In addition to the powers now possessed by the Hart County Industrial Building Authority (hereinafter referred to as the "authority"), said authority is empowered and authorized to do any or all of the following:
(a)
To extend credit or make secured or unsecured loans to any person, firm, corporation, or other industrial entity for the planning, design, construction, acquisition, or carrying out of any project involving the acquisition, construction, or equipping of any facility to be located within Hart County even though the facility is to be on lands in which the authority has no right, title, or interest upon a determination by the authority that the making of any such loan or the extension of any such credit will, in the judgment of the authority, encourage and promote the expansion and development of industry and commerce in Hart County, and will tend to increase employment opportunities within said county. The word "facility" as used herein shall mean and include any type of real or personal property or a combination thereof which is intended to be used in connection with the operation of an industrial or manufacturing plant or a commercial enterprise located in Hart County. Such loans or the extension of any such credit shall be secured by such terms and conditions as the authority shall determine to be reasonable;
(b)
To issue its revenue bonds to provide funds with which to make any loan or loans authorized under the provisions of subsection (a) above; and
(c)
To do all things necessary or convenient to carry out the powers expressly conferred by the act.
Section 3. - Interest rates.
The interest rate or rates to be borne by any bonds, notes, or other obligations issued by the authority shall be fixed by the authority and any limitations with respect to interest rates found in the Revenue Bond Law (1937 Ga. Laws, page 761) [O.C.G.A. § 36-82-60], or in any amendment thereto which may hereafter be adopted, or in the usury laws of the State of Georgia shall not apply to obligations issued under this act.
Section 4. - Revenue bonds, form.
Revenue bonds issued by the authority may be in such form, either coupon or fully registered or both coupon and fully registered, and may be in such denominations and subject to such exchangeability and transferability provisions, as the resolution authorizing the issuance of such bonds or any indenture or trust agreement or bond purchase agreement may provide.
Section 5. - Validation of revenue bonds.
Revenue bonds issued by the authority shall bear a certificate of validation. The signature of the clerk of the superior court of the Northern Judicial Circuit may be placed upon such validation certificate in manual or facsimile form, and the seal of the superior court may be impressed, imprinted, or reproduced thereon.
Section 6. - Issuance of bonds other than refunding bonds.
No bonds except refunding bonds shall be issued by the authority unless its governing body shall adopt a resolution finding that the undertaking for which such bonds are to be issued will promote the objectives of the authority and will tend to increase, or to prevent a decrease in, employment opportunities in Hart County.
Section 7. - Use of revenue bonds.
Revenue bonds may be issued to refund any outstanding obligation of the authority.
