Chapter 18 - BUILDINGS AND BUILDING REGULATIONS[1]
Footnotes:
--- (1) ---
Cross reference— Environment, ch. 34; floods, ch. 38; health and sanitation, ch. 42; land development standards, ch. 46; manufactured homes and trailers, ch. 50; planning, ch. 62; roads and bridges, ch. 66; road names and house numbers, § 66-66 et seq.; signs, ch. 70; solid waste, ch. 74.
State Law reference— Water Well Standards Act of 1985, O.C.G.A. § 12-5-120; access to and use of public facilities by physically handicapped persons, O.C.G.A. § 30-3-1 et seq.; ordinances relating to repair, closing and demolition of dwellings unfit for human habitation or buildings or structures that imperil health, safety or morals, O.C.G.A. § 36-61-11; authority to demolish structures where drug crimes are committed, authority to repair, close or demolish unfit buildings or structures, O.C.G.A. § 41-2-7; county or municipal ordinances relating to unfit buildings or structures, O.C.G.A. § 41-2-9 et seq.; water efficiency requirements, construction standards generally, O.C.G.A. § 8-2-1 et seq.; minimum state construction codes, O.C.G.A. § 8-2-25; enforcement of minimum state construction codes, O.C.G.A. § 8-2-26; fire escapes in buildings, O.C.G.A. § 8-2-50; authority to adopt technical codes, Ga. Const. art. IX, § II, ¶ III(a)(12).

ARTICLE I. - IN GENERAL

Sec. 18-1. - Self-inspection exemption.
The board of commissioners, pursuant to 1996 Ga. Laws, page 1632, exempts the county from the alternative inspection procedure as set forth in O.C.G.A. § 8-2-26(d).
(Res. of 5-14-1996)
Secs. 18-2—18-30. - Reserved.
ARTICLE II. - BUILDING PERMITS[2]

Footnotes:
--- (2) ---
State Law reference— Minimum state construction codes, O.C.G.A. § 8-2-25; enforcement of minimum state construction codes, O.C.G.A. § 8-2-26.

Sec. 18-31. - Required.
(a)
No new construction may be initiated within the county for any building of any type without a building permit.
(b)
No construction that involves the renovation of or addition to any existing building may be commenced without a building permit. In addition, a building permit will be required prior to alteration of the existing roofline, existing building foundation or footprint, or the existing general physical character of the structure.
(c)
As used herein, the term "construction" includes building, erection, placement, anchoring or otherwise siting any building, whether pre-fabricated, manufactured off site, or otherwise.
(d)
No public utility shall connect service at any site within the county without proof of a county building permit.
(e)
Building permits will not be issued without proof of a sanitation permit for the premises.
(f)
A building permit shall become invalid unless the work authorized by it shall have been commenced within 90 days after its date of issue, or if the work authorized by the permit is suspended or abandoned for a period of six months or more. Commencement of construction means erection of temporary forms, pouring of slabs or footings, installation of piers or columns, or the actual start of a building or altering of a structure either temporary or permanent. Commencement for commercial, industrial, or agricultural construction projects shall include the physical moving of dirt. Hardship cases may be considered for extension by the board of commissioners.
(g)
A building permit is required for planned building or renovations of greater than $2,500.00.
(Ord. of 12-30-1991; Ord. of 7-13-1992; Ord. of 11-11-1997, § 1; Ord. of 12-11-2001; Amend. of 2-10-2004; Ord. of 6-23-2015(1))
Sec. 18-32. - Application.
A building permit may be obtained by the property owner at the county administrative office.
(Ord. of 11-11-1997, § 2; Ord. of 12-11-2001)
Sec. 18-33. - Exemptions.
(a)
The requirements of section 18-31 do not apply when the planned building or renovation does not add any value greater than $1,500.00 to the value of the existing property. It is not the intent of this article to require a building permit for routine maintenance or repairs, as long as the routine maintenance or repairs utilize the same or substantially similar replacement materials as used in the existing structure.
(b)
No building permit shall be required for the replacement of plumbing, wiring or paint of the existing structure.
(c)
No building permit shall be required for mobile homes or manufactured housing, providing that the same are permitted under other provisions of this Code.
(Ord. of 11-11-1997, § 3; Ord. of 12-11-2001)
Sec. 18-34. - Enforcement.
(a)
Building permits issued under this article shall be prominently displayed at the building site, and visible from the nearest road.
(b)
All law enforcement agencies, officers and officials of the county or any enforcement agency or officer of the state is authorized, empowered and directed to enforce compliance with this article. The county code enforcement officer is responsible for investigating and ensuring compliance with this article.
(c)
Any person violating this article shall be tried before the county magistrate court. Upon conviction, a violation of this article shall be punished as provided in section 1-13.
(Ord. of 11-11-1997, § 4; Res. of 8-25-1998; Ord. of 12-11-2001)
Secs. 18-35—18-65. - Reserved.
ARTICLE III. - FLOW RATE RESTRICTIONS ON PLUMBING FIXTURES[3]

Footnotes:
--- (3) ---
State Law reference— Flow-rate restrictions on plumbing fixtures, O.C.G.A. § 8-2-3.

Sec. 18-66. - Definitions.
The following words, terms and phrases, when used in this article, shall have the meanings ascribed to them in this section, except where the context clearly indicates a different meaning:
Commercial means any type of building other than residential.
Construction means the erection of a new building or the alteration of an existing building in connection with its repair or renovation or in connection with making an addition to an existing building and shall include the replacement of a malfunctioning, unserviceable or obsolete faucet, showerhead, toilet or urinal in an existing building.
Residential means any building or unit of a building intended for occupancy as a dwelling but shall not include a hotel or motel.
(Ord. of 6-25-1991, § 1)
Cross reference— Definitions generally, § 1-2.
Sec. 18-67. - Compliance with plumbing code required—Residential buildings.
No construction may be initiated within the county for any residential building of any type that does not comply with the following requirements of the state plumbing code, O.C.G.A. § 8-2-3:
(1)
Employs a gravity tank type, flushometer valve, or flushometer tank toilet that uses more than an average of 1.6 gallons of water per flush;
(2)
Employs a showerhead that allows a flow of more than an average of 2.5 gallons of water per minute at 60 pounds per square inch of pressure;
(3)
Employs a urinal that uses more than an average of 1.0 gallon of water per flush;
(4)
Employs a lavatory faucet or lavatory replacement aerator that allows a flow of more than 2.0 gallons of water per minute; or
(5)
Employs a kitchen faucet or kitchen replacement aerator that allows a flow of more than 2.5 gallons of water per minute.
(Ord. of 6-25-1991, § 2)
Sec. 18-68. - Same—Commercial buildings.
There shall be no construction of any commercial building initiated within the county for any commercial building of any type that does not meet the requirements of the requirements of the state plumbing code, O.C.G.A. § 8-3-2, as stated in section 18-67.
(Ord. of 6-25-1991, § 3)
Sec. 18-69. - Applicability.
The requirements of section 18-67 shall apply to any residential construction initiated after April 1, 1992, and to any commercial construction initiated after July 1, 1992, which involves the repair or renovation of or addition to any existing building when such repair or renovation of or addition to such existing building includes replacement of toilets and/or showers.
(Ord. of 6-25-1991, § 4)
Sec. 18-70. - Exemptions.
(a)
New construction and the repair or renovation of an existing building shall be exempt from the requirements of this article when:
(1)
The repair or renovation of the existing building does not include the replacement of the plumbing or sewerage system servicing toilets, faucets or showerheads within such existing buildings;
(2)
When such plumbing or sewerage system within such existing building, because of its capacity, design or installation, would not function properly if the toilets, faucets or showerheads required by this article were installed;
(3)
Such system is a well or gravity flow from a spring and is owned privately by an individual for use in such individual's personal residence; or
(4)
Units to be installed are:
a.
Specifically designed for use by the handicapped;
b.
Specifically designed to withstand unusual abuse or installation in a penal institution; or
c.
Toilets for juveniles.
(b)
The owner of a building undergoing new construction or repair or renovation who is entitled to an exemption as specified in subsection (a)(2), (3) or (4) of this section shall obtain the exemption by applying at the county courthouse, board of commissioners. A fee specified in the schedule of fees and charges shall be charged for the inspection and issuance of such exemption.
(Ord. of 6-25-1991, § 5)
Sec. 18-71. - Enforcement.
(a)
This article shall be enforced by the sheriff's department, the county public works director or the county planning director.
(b)
Any person violating this article shall be tried before the county magistrate court. Upon conviction, a violation of this article may be punished as provided in section 1-13.
(Ord. of 6-25-1991, § 6)
Secs. 18-72—18-90. - Reserved.
ARTICLE IV. - POULTRY HOUSE CONSTRUCTION[4]

Footnotes:
--- (4) ---
Editor's note— Ord. of 2-13-2018, §§ 1—8, amended Art. IV in its entirety to read as herein set out. Former Art. IV, §§ 18-91—18-99, pertained to similar subject matter and derived from Ord. of 6-23-2015(2).

Sec. 18-91. - Definitions.
Except as otherwise provided herein, all words shall have their customary dictionary meaning. The present tense includes the future tense. The singular number includes the plural and the plural includes the singular. The word "person" includes a firm, corporation, association, organization, trust or partnership. The word "lot" includes "plot" or "parcel." The word "building" includes "structure." The word "shall" is always mandatory. The word "used" or "occupied," as applied to any land or building, shall be construed to include the words "intended, arranged, or designed to be used or occupied." The term "erected" shall be deemed also to include "constructed," "reconstructed," "altered," "placed," or "moved." The word "land use" and "use of land" shall be deemed also to include "building use" and "use of buildings." The word "adjacent" means "nearby" and not necessarily "contiguous."
Agriculture or agricultural means a parcel used primarily for soil-dependent cultivation of agricultural crop production, the raising of livestock or poultry, growth of a field, or forestry.
Applicant means any person who applies for a building permit, and any attorney or other person representing or acting on behalf of a person who applies for a building permit.
Board of commissioners means Hart County Board of Commissioners.
Buffer area means a continuous landscaped or naturalized area used to separate and partially obstruct the view of a poultry operation from adjacent or contiguous development.
Building means any structure, either permanent or temporary, above or below ground having roof or other covering, designed, built or used as a shelter or enclosure for persons, animals, or property of any kind.
Nonconforming means any lawfully existing building or structure which does not conform to these ordinances governing the type, bulk, location, height or size of buildings or structures permitted prior to the adoption of this article but which is in full compliance with all applicable federal, state and local laws, rules and ordinances, and for which all required federal, state and local permits have been issued.
Principal use means the primary purpose for which land or a building is used.
Residential means an enclosure containing sleeping, kitchen, and bathroom facilities designed for and used or held ready for use as a permanent residence by one family.
Right-of-way means that area, distinguished from an easement, for the present or future use of roads, streets, highways and utilities, together with its drainage facilities and other supporting uses and structures.
Screening means a method where a view of one site is shielded, concealed, or hidden from another site. Screening techniques include berms, densely planted vegetation, natural vegetation or other features. Screening must provide a visual and acoustical barrier that is of such nature and density that it provides year-round maximum shielding, concealment or hiding from the ground to a height of at least eight feet or from view from the normal level of a first story window on an abutting lot.
Setback (from buildings) means the minimum horizontal distance between the lot or property line and the nearest front, side or rear line of the building, including terraces or any covered projections but excluding steps.
Street means a public or private thoroughfare which affords the principal means of ingress and egress to abutting property.
Structure means anything constructed or erected with a fixed location on or in the ground, or attached to something having a fixed location on the ground.
(Ord. of 2-13-2018)
Sec. 18-92. - Separation between agricultural and residential uses.
Adequate separation must be provided between agricultural structures or operations, as enumerated in this section, and neighboring residences for any new construction, in accordance with the provisions of this section. The location of the existing residential structure or agricultural structure operation shall be determined as of the date a building permit has been issued.
(1)
Separation required for new or expanded operations construction. Any active poultry house when constructed shall be located no closer than 200 feet measured in a straight line from the nearest point of any property line in the front or sides of the houses. The rear exhaust end must be at least 300 feet from the property line unless an inhabitable residential dwelling is located inline with the rear of the poultry house on an adjacent property. The rear exhaust end must also be 600 feet from an adjacent property inhabitable residential dwelling as measured directly inline behind the poultry house. This does not include dwellings on the property on which the poultry house is being constructed.
(2)
Separation from existing uses. When a new residence is to be constructed on a neighboring property in proximity to any existing agricultural structure or operation for which separation is required by this section, but the existing structure or operation does not comply with such required distance, the new residence shall be separated from such structure or operation as follows. The new residence shall be located no closer than 300 feet measured in a straight line from the nearest point of the new residential structure to the nearest point of any existing poultry house structure.
(3)
Waiver for adjacent uses. When a non-agricultural use is proposed for property abutting existing poultry house or will be located within the required minimum setbacks, the developer or property owner shall sign a waiver which will indicate that the applicant understands that there is an ongoing agricultural land use adjacent to the subject property which could produce odors, noise, dust, and other effects which may not be compatible with the applicant's development. Nevertheless, understanding the effects of agricultural operations and uses on adjacent land, the applicant agrees, by executing the waiver, to waive any objection to those effects and understands that his permit is issued and processing in reliance on his agreement not to bring any action against adjacent land owners, whose property is agricultural and or an agricultural operation, or any local government, asserting that the adjacent agricultural operations or uses of agricultural land constitutes a nuisance; provided that said existing agricultural use is operated in conformance with this Article and with all applicable local, state, and federal regulations. Any such notice or acknowledgement provided to or executed by a land owner adjoining an existing agricultural use or within the required minimum setbacks for said use shall be public record.
(Ord. of 2-13-2018, § 1)
Sec. 18-93. - Existing non-conforming poultry facilities.
Existing facilities at the time this article is adopted, which do not meet the requirements specified herein for new or expanded operations shall be "grandfathered" in as nonconforming for the purposes of this article. Such operations shall not have to comply with location and setback restrictions for existing structures/facilities, provided they are in compliance with applicable state and federal regulations for water and air quality.
(1)
Change of ownership. In the event that a current operation poultry farm changes ownership for any reason, the existing poultry structures/facilities on these farms shall be "grandfathered" in as nonconforming for the purposes of this article. Such operations shall not have to comply with location and setback restrictions for existing structures/facilities, provided they are in compliance with applicable state and federal regulations for water and air quality.
(2)
Inactive farms. Existing poultry farms structures/facilities that have been in an inactive state for less than five years shall also be "grandfathered" in as nonconforming for the purposes of this article. Such operations shall not have to comply with location and setback restrictions for existing structures/facilities, provided they are in compliance with applicable state and federal regulations for water and air quality.
(3)
Rebuilding of existing poultry farms structures/facilities shall also be "grandfathered" in as nonconforming for the purposes of this article but only if the building is built on the same existing building footprint. Such operations shall not have to comply with location and setback restrictions for existing structures/facilities, provided they are in compliance with applicable state and federal regulations for water and air quality.
(Ord. of 2-13-2018, § 2)
Sec. 18-94. - Stackhouses and poultry disposal methods.
Manure stackhouses and poultry disposal methods shall be located no closer than 100 feet measured in a straight line from the nearest point of any property line in the front, rear, or sides of the stack house.
(Ord. of 2-13-2018, § 3)
Sec. 18-95. - Additional setback requirements.
In addition to the other setbacks set forth in this article, no commercial poultry house shall be constructed where the any part of the poultry house is 1,000 feet or less from any building that is regularly used as a government building, school, hospital, church, other house of worship, senior center, nursing home, retirement home, restaurant, or public community center provided, however, that this requirement may be waived by the owner of the property (or their authorized agents) on which such an establishment is located. If more than one person owns or has any ownership interest of record of the property where such an establishment is located, then the consent of all owners shall be required.
In addition to the other setbacks set forth in this article, no commercial poultry house shall be constructed where any part of the poultry house is 1,000 feet or less from the property line of any public park, public recreational area, or Corps of Engineers Lake Hartwell, provided, however, that this requirement may be waived by the owner of the property (or their authorized agents) on which such an establishment is located. If more than one person owns or has any ownership interest of record of the property where such an establishment is located, then the consent of all owners shall be required.
(Ord. of 2-13-2018, § 4)
Sec. 18-96. - Waivers.
In order to be effective under this chapter, any and all waivers or consents required by this chapter must be in writing, signed by the parties from whom such waivers or consents must be obtained, and such waivers or consents must be obtained before construction of the commercial poultry house commences.
(Ord. of 2-13-2018, § 5)
Sec. 18-97. - Truck routing.
Proposed poultry operations must include the truck routing plan to include the most direct truck route from a state highway to the closest county road to the farm. Proposed truck routing from the state highway system must be approved by the GA DOT prior to the issuance of a county building permit. Driveway access to the county road must also be approved by the county prior to issuance of a building permit.
(Ord. of 2-13-2018, § 6)
Sec. 18-98. - Buffer requirements.
A 25-foot planted buffer, as defined by this section, shall be provided and maintained along any rear or side property line of adjacent properties of a poultry operation regulated by this article. No buffer shall extend within 15 feet of a public right-of-way line. Minimum buffer widths shall be established in accordance with the following schedule:
When a building or structure used to house poultry or commercial livestock is constructed adjacent to a single-family residence, mobile/manufactured home, modular home or other dwelling, a 50-foot buffer along the entire portion of the property line abutting said dwelling, and such buffer shall also extend an additional 100 feet in each direction along said common property line to protect the yard and lot of the dwelling.
It shall be the responsibility of the property owner of the poultry house operation to maintain existing vegetation within required buffers and to replant where sparsely vegetated. The vegetation shall be maintained as a continuous unbroken hedgerow for the entire period the property is used as a poultry farm. Dead or diseased foliage shall be replaced at the next appropriate planting time. The owner, operator or maintainer of a poultry farm shall use good husbandry techniques, such as pruning and fertilizing, to maintain maximum density and foliage.
Vegetation planted for screening, except for ground covers, shall be installed after the site grading has been completed and of such type as to be a height of not less than three feet when planted and which will, in normal growth, attain a height of six feet within three years; provided, however that such plant materials can form a hardy screen, dense enough and high enough both to interrupt vision and to reduce the transmission of sound.
(Ord. of 2-13-2018, § 7)
Sec. 18-99. - Site plan.
Prior to receiving a building permit, the developer of poultry houses shall include a plat of all land which the applicant proposes to place structures, improve or subdivide, including any unit divisions not scheduled for immediate development, and all land immediately adjacent extending 1,000 feet from the subject property, or of that directly opposite the subject property, extending 1,000 feet from the street frontage of opposite land, with the names of owners as shown in the assessor's files.
Site plan must also clearly show all setbacks required of this article and include the proposed vegetative buffer. Developer must also include the truck routing plan with GA DOT approval.
(Ord. of 2-13-2018, § 8)
