ARTICLE 23. - OFFICIAL ZONING MAP OF BULLOCH COUNTY, GEORGIA (OFFICIAL MAP)

Section 2301. - Official Zoning Map, Bulloch County, Georgia (official map).
The Official Zoning Map, Bulloch County, Georgia is hereby incorporated into and made a part of this zoning ordinance [this appendix]. Any reference to the "official map" in this appendix refers to the Official Zoning Map, Bulloch County, Georgia.
Section 2302. - Identification, alteration, and replacement of the official map.
(a)
The official map shall be comprised of a set of tax maps, which together comprise the official map. Upon adoption by the board of commissioners, each tax map which is part of the official map shall be signed by the clerk of the board of commissioners and shall bear the seal of the county or that of a notary public under the following words: "This certifies that this is the official zoning map, Bulloch County, Georgia referred to in Article 23 of the Zoning Ordinance of Bulloch County, Georgia," together with the date of adoption of the ordinance (November 4, 1994).
(b)
The official map may be amended under the procedure set forth in Section 414 of this appendix. Any amendment to the official map is an amendment to this appendix. Any amendment involving a change of a zoning district shall be entered on the official map when an amendment has been approved by the board of commissioners. The entry showing an amendment to the official map shall be placed upon the property which is the subject of the amendment and shall show the date of the amendment, the zoning file number, and the zoning district which was approved by the board of commissioners as an amendment to the official map. All entries showing amendments to the official map must be signed by the clerk of the board of commissioners.
(c)
Alterations to the official map may be made only by the procedures contained in Sections 414 and 2302 of this appendix. Any unauthorized alteration of the official map by any person is a violation of this appendix.
(d)
The official map shall be on display in the office of the zoning administrator, and is the final authority as to the current status of zoning district boundaries.
(e)
If the official map becomes damaged, destroyed, lost, or difficult to interpret because of the nature or number of changes and additions, the board of commissioners may adopt a new official map which will replace the previous official map. The new official map is identified as such in the same manner as described above in this section. When the new official map is adopted, a notation must be made on the previous official map that it is no longer valid, indicating the date that the new official map was adopted, as a reference aid. The previous official map should be preserved, if it has not been lost or destroyed, for possible future reference.
Section 2303. - (Reserved).
Section 2304. - (Reserved).
Section 2305. - Zoning district boundaries.
Where uncertainty exists with respect to the exact location of the boundary of a zoning district shown on the official map, the following guidelines will be used in establishing the exact location of the boundary:
(1)
Where a zoning district boundary line as appearing on the official map divides a single lot that was a single lot at the time of the enactment of this appendix, the requirements for the zoning district shall extend only as far as the zoning district boundary line.
(2)
Where a zoning district boundary is indicated as approximately following a municipal limits or county line, the municipal limits or county line is the boundary.
(3)
Where a zoning district boundary is indicated as approximately following a property line or such line extended, the line or lines extended is the boundary.
(4)
Where a zoning district boundary is indicated as approximately following the centerline of a stream bed, such a centerline is the boundary.
(5)
Where a zoning district boundary is indicated as approximately parallel to the centerline of a street, road, railroad, or the right-of-way of such a facility, the zoning district boundary is parallel to the line and at a distance from it as indicated by scale on the official map.
Section 2306. - Relationship between official map and the county comprehensive plan.
(a)
The county comprehensive plan was adopted by the board of commissioners of the county. It should provide the best possible indication of desirable land use patterns that will meet projected future demand for land uses of various types. The county comprehensive plan supplies a body of information upon which decisions on future development may be made that are guided by sound planning principles. It contains a future land use map, which shows suitable areas for various types of land uses. Zoning districts may not necessarily conform to the land use map. The county comprehensive plan and future land use map shall serve as a guide for establishing appropriate zoning districts and for amending the official map, but the board of commissioners is not bound by any proposed land use in the comprehensive plan or future land use map when adopting the official map or adopting amendments to the official map.
(b)
The zoning districts contained on the official map carry standards which must be met by all new development and construction in the county. The arrangement of zoning districts is initially based on land use information contained in the county comprehensive plan. Although there may not necessarily be consistency between the official map and the future land use map, the future land use map should continue to be used as a guide when establishing and amending zoning districts on the official map. Such coordination helps to ensure amendments are based on defensible findings of fact as well as sound comprehensive planning principles.
