ARTICLE 3. - ESTABLISHMENT OF DISTRICTS

Section 301. - Districts established.
(a)
Districts: For the purposes of this appendix, the county is divided into districts as follows:
EXPAND
(1) AG—5 Agricultural, five-acre minimum Article 5
(2) Residential districts Article 6
(3) [Reserved] Article 7
(4) Commercial and industrial districts Article 8
(5) [Reserved] Article 9
(6) MHP Manufactured home park Article 10
(7) [Reserved] Article 11
(8) PUD—Planned Unit Development Article 12
(9) [Reserved] Article 13
(10) [Reserved] Article 14
(11) [Reserved] Article 15
(12) [Reserved] Article 16
(13) [Reserved] Article 17
(14) [Reserved] Article 18
(15) [Reserved] Article 19
(15) CP Conservation preservation district Article 20
  (Amd. of 4-5-05(3); Amd. of 12-2-08)
Section 302. - Districts explained.
(a)
Districts are areas of land within the county to which different development requirements and standards are applied. These differences are intended to promote the separation of incompatible uses, encourage sound land use patterns, and retain the character of the community. Although this appendix established the locations of districts as indicated on the official zoning map, a district may be changed in the future in accordance with the provisions of Section 414.
(b)
In making the decision to change a district, the points contained in Section 414 must be considered by the planning and zoning commission as well as the board of commissioners.
(c)
Zoning to apply when lot is divided by district boundary line. In the event that a district boundary line on the zoning map divides a lot of record held in one ownership on the date of the original passage of this ordinance (November 4, 1994), each part of the lot so divided shall be used in conformity with the regulations established by this appendix for the district in which each such parcel is located. However, if the property owner of such a lot so desires, he may apply for an amendment to extend a use allowed in one district into the other provided that the other district is a like kind use district and that such extension is in accordance with setbacks and yard requirements of the district into which he is extending. Such extensions may only be considered upon review by the board of commissioners through the amendment process. Fee may be waived in such instances.
(d)
Any parcel of land that is recorded as one parcel and is split by a road without a deeded right-of-way (public or private) for subdividing purposes shall be considered as one parcel. Any parcel of land that is recorded as one parcel of land and is split by a public road with a right-of-way deeded to and accepted by a governmental entity shall be considered as two parcels for subdividing purposes.
(Amd. of 4-5-05(3))
