Chapter 12 - CEMETERIES

Sec. 12-1. - Municipal cemeteries.
All interments in the City shall be in organized, established cemeteries as provided in this chapter. Anyone violating the provisions of this chapter shall, upon conviction, be punished as provided for in section 1-9.
(Prior Code, § 7-1; Code 2004, § 22-1)
Sec. 12-2. - Responsibility for cemeteries.
The responsibility for the operation, maintenance, and general supervision of all municipal cemeteries shall be vested in the person so designated by the Mayor and Council and who shall have the following duties:
(1)
To look after and take proper care of all municipal cemeteries and see that no lot in any of said cemeteries is used or occupied in violation of this chapter or of any rule or regulation promulgated by the Mayor and Council;
(2)
To see to the digging of interment places and to the proper entering of deceased persons when called upon to do so.
(Prior Code, § 7-2; Code 2004, § 22-2)
Sec. 12-3. - Management of cemeteries.
The responsibility for the management of all municipal cemeteries shall be by the City Clerk who shall keep full and detailed accounts of the expenditures and receipts issued or collected upon all municipal cemeteries.
(Prior Code, § 7-3; Code 2004, § 22-3)
Sec. 12-4. - Purchase and conveyance of lots.
(a)
Generally. The Mayor and Council shall place a value upon all unsold lots in the municipal cemeteries and shall have the City Clerk record such valuations on an official map or plan of each cemetery, which maps shall be kept on file, open to public inspection, in the office of the City Clerk.
(b)
Method of purchase. Any person desiring to purchase an easement in a particular lot, for the purpose for which it is intended, shall be permitted to do so upon payment of the price fixed for such lot or upon making arrangements, according to rules and regulations that may be established by the Mayor and Council, for the purchase of such lot on an installment plan.
(c)
Manner of conveying. Conveyances of burial lots shall be executed in the name of the City by the Mayor and City Clerk and have affixed thereto the seal of the City. Such conveyances shall not convey fee simple title but shall convey to the purchaser of each burial lot an easement for the exclusive right of interment and sepulture in such lot, shall state the maximum number of graves allowed on each such burial lot as shown by the plat, and by reference therein made shall convey each lot subject to all the provisions of this chapter as fully as if set out in each such conveyance.
(d)
Recordation of deed. At the time the City conveys any burial lot, the City Clerk, in addition to collecting the purchase price thereof, shall collect from the purchaser an amount sufficient to have such conveyance recorded in the county clerk's office, county superior court, and shall have such conveyance so recorded before delivery thereof to such purchaser. No sale or transfer of any such burial lot or any right therein, nor any subdividing of any burial lot by any purchaser, or those claiming under him, shall be valid unless approved in writing by the City or until the deed of transfer and such written approval are recorded in the county clerk's office, county superior court.
(e)
Records of ownership. The City Clerk shall keep full and complete records of the ownership of all lot easements in the municipal cemeteries, of the burial capacity of each lot, of the location of each grave, of the names and ages of the persons buried in each grave that has been or shall hereafter be used, and of the date of burial of each.
(f)
Sale or transfer by owner. Owners of lots shall not be permitted to sell or transfer lots without the written consent and approval of the Mayor and Council.
(Prior Code, § 7-4; Code 2004, § 22-4)
Sec. 12-5. - Rules for interment.
No deceased person shall be interred in any municipal cemetery until the City Clerk has found that:
(1)
The lot in which burial is to be made has been fully paid for.
(2)
The person arranging for such burial has the right to the use of such lot.
(3)
Such lot is not used beyond its capacity.
(4)
Proper record is made of the name and age of the deceased person and of the exact location of the grave.
(Prior Code, § 7-5; Code 2004, § 22-5)
Sec. 12-6. - Restrictions on use.
(a)
Enclosures. No curbing, fencing or enclosure of any sort shall be erected on, in or around any burial lot in the cemetery, but the City reserves the right to erect curbing along the walks and driveways, if it so desires.
(b)
Plantings. The planting of flowers and shrubs or any other effort to improve or beautify any lot within a municipal cemetery shall be done only after the plans for such work shall have been submitted to and approved by the Mayor and Council. Nothing contained in this section shall be construed to prohibit the decoration or adornment of any grave site with potted or cut flowers or plants.
(c)
Stones and monuments. Owners of cemetery lot easements shall have the right to erect proper stones or monuments marking the burial site, except that no slab shall be set other than in a horizontal position and flush with the ground.
(1)
Headstones shall not exceed two feet in height above the ground and 18 inches in width and shall be set in a solid concrete foundation.
(2)
Monuments of cut stone or marble shall not exceed ten feet in height and the erection of same must be conducted under the supervision of the person so designated by the City Council.
(Prior Code, § 7-6; Code 2004, § 22-6)
Sec. 12-7. - Cemetery regulations.
(a)
Trees and shrubs. No tree or shrub shall be planted, removed, cut down or destroyed within the borders of any burial lot, walks or lawn spaces, without the approval of the Mayor and Council.
(b)
Injury to monuments. It shall be unlawful for any person to remove, deface or in any manner injure any monument, enclosure, or ornament thereof within any municipal cemetery.
(c)
Discharging firearms. It shall be unlawful for any person to shoot any gun, pistol or other firearm within any municipal cemetery except at a military funeral.
(d)
Depositing offensive matter. It shall be unlawful for any person to deposit on any part of any cemetery or any land adjoining it any dead carcass, garbage, or offensive matter whatever.
(e)
Disorderly conduct. It shall be unlawful for any person to conduct himself in a boisterous or disorderly manner within the perimeter of any municipal cemetery.
(f)
Advertisements. It shall be unlawful for any person to post any advertisement or sign, or to solicit any work in a municipal cemetery.
(g)
Unauthorized interments. It shall be unlawful for any person to inter any dead body in any part of a municipal cemetery without the express authorization of the Mayor and Council.
(h)
Disinterment. Disinterments shall be made only when authorized by the Mayor and Council and the county board of health.
(Prior Code, § 7-7; Code 2004, § 22-7)
Sec. 12-8. - Authority of the City to regulate.
The Mayor and Council reserve, to themselves and their successors in office, the right to alter, amend, modify or add to the rules, regulations, conditions and restrictions set forth in this chapter at any time it is deemed advisable so to do in order to carry out the purposes of this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 7-8; Code 2004, § 22-8)
Sec. 12-9. - Liability of the City.
There shall be no liability whatsoever, either tort or contractual, on the part of the City, or its officials or officers, or their successors in office, or its agents or employees, to any purchasers of any lots in the cemetery, or to any person holding under them, or to the family or relatives of any person buried in the cemetery or to any person or the family of such person, who has erected any monument or marker therein, by reason of any act, thing, omission, negligence or otherwise relating to the cemetery.
(Prior Code, § 7-9; Code 2004, § 22-9)
