Chapter 24 - OFFENSES AND MISCELLANEOUS PROVISIONS[1]

Footnotes:
--- (1) ---
State Law reference— Criminal Code of Georgia, O.C.G.A. § 16-1-1 et seq.; limitation on home rule powers of municipal corporations with respect to duplication of state criminal offenses, O.C.G.A. § 36-35-6(a)(2).

Sec. 24-1. - Damaging or defacing park property.
It shall be unlawful for any person to leave the walks laid out in any public park and trespass upon the grass, or to deface any of the seats, fountains or other property therein, or to cut or whittle thereon with a knife or other instrument, or to write or mark thereon with a pen, pencil or other instrument, or to cut or injure any of the trees in such park.
(Prior Code, § 13-2; Code 2004, § 54-2)
Sec. 24-2. - Damaging or defacing public property.
It shall be unlawful for any person to injure, deface, break, or destroy any of the property of the City.
(Prior Code, § 13-3; Code 2004, § 54-3)
Sec. 24-3. - Damaging, interfering with poles, wires, other fixtures.
It shall be unlawful to cut, break, or in any other manner molest or interfere with any telegraph, telephone, electric light or other pole used for the support of electric wires, or to throw at, break, injure, or in any other manner molest or interfere with any fixture, wire, lamp, or other thing placed thereon, or to tie any horse, mule or other animal of any sort to any such pole.
(Prior Code, § 13-4; Code 2004, § 54-4)
Sec. 24-4. - Disorderly conduct; acts constituting.
(a)
It shall be unlawful for any person in the City to engage in any violent, tumultuous or similar disorderly conduct tending to infringe on the peace and repose of the citizens of the City. The following provisions are hereby declared to constitute acts of disorderly conduct:
(1)
It shall be disorderly conduct to be found drunk making any unnecessary or unusual noise to the disturbance of any citizen.
(2)
It shall be disorderly conduct for any person to act indecent in any car or vehicle parked or not parked within the City.
(3)
It shall be disorderly conduct to use violent, boisterous, profane, or obscene language in public places, use opprobrious words to another or in his presence, without provocation.
(4)
An assault or assault and battery shall constitute disorderly conduct.
(5)
The making of unnecessary loud noises by the loud and unnecessary blowing of automobile horns, the discharge of firearms, or otherwise disturbing the peace and good order shall be disorderly conduct.
(6)
The willful giving of false alarms of fire or false alarms of any kind shall constitute disorderly conduct.
(b)
Any person guilty of contemptuous or disorderly conduct towards the Mayor and Council, thereby disrupting the normal course of an organized Council meeting, or who shall violate the provisions of section 2-4(i), shall be punished by a fine or confinement in the City jail according to the provisions of the City's Charter.
(Prior Code, §§ 13-1, 13-5; Code 2004, § 54-5)
Sec. 24-5. - Discharging firearms, air guns, or similar weapons.
(a)
It shall be unlawful for any person in the City to discharge any gun, pistol, air gun or other such weapon projecting lead or any other missile within 300 yards of any street, alley or building, or at any point upon the land of another person without the express consent of the owner or occupant thereof.
(b)
This section shall not be construed to prohibit any officer of the law from discharging a firearm in the performance of his duty, nor to any citizen from discharging a firearm when lawfully defending person or property.
(Prior Code, § 13-6; Code 2004, § 54-6)
Sec. 24-6. - Muffler required; noise-producing devices on vehicles.
It shall be unlawful to operate a motor vehicle in the City without such vehicle being equipped with a muffler which emits no offensive noise, or to operate a motor vehicle equipped with mufflers commonly known as smitties, clear or gutted mufflers or exhaust systems equipped with cutouts, or with noise-making devices attached to the tailpipe, such as spark plugs, or inner tubes or any other noise-making device.
(1)
Every motor vehicle shall at all times be equipped with an exhaust system, in good working order and in constant operation, meeting the following specifications:
a.
The exhaust system shall include the piping leading from the flange of the exhaust manifold to and including the muffler and tail pipes;
b.
The use of flexible pipe shall be prohibited except on diesel tractors or according to manufacturers' original specifications;
c.
The exhaust emission point shall extend beyond the rear or outside of the passenger compartment. The trunk shall be considered as part of the passenger compartment;
d.
The exhaust system and its elements shall be securely fastened, including the consideration of missing or broken hangers; and
e.
There shall be no part of the exhaust system passing through the passenger compartment or any exposed stack so located that any individual entering or leaving the vehicle may be burned.
(2)
The engine and power mechanism of every motor vehicle shall be so equipped and adjusted as to prevent the escape of excessive fumes or smoke.
(Prior Code, § 13-7; Code 2004, § 54-7)
Sec. 24-7. - Nuisances.
(a)
It shall be unlawful for any person to create, carry on, or maintain any nuisances which work a hurt or an inconvenience to any person within the City limits.
(b)
It shall be unlawful for any person to create, carry on, or maintain any nuisance which tends to injure or does injure or jeopardizes the health of any people of the City.
(c)
Any official of the City or otherwise authorized person may direct a complaint of nuisance to the City Police Department, or the City Manager or his designee. Any complaint of nuisance shall be investigated by the Police Department and may be placed on the municipal court docket for a hearing upon the basis of the investigation.
(d)
The municipal court, after five days' notice to the party involved, shall hold a hearing thereon, and, upon finding that a nuisance does exist, shall issue an order to the owner, agent in control of, or tenant in possession, stating that a nuisance has been found to exist and that the nuisance must be abated within so many hours or days as the judge shall deem reasonable, having consideration for the nature of the nuisance and its effect on the public.
(e)
County animal control officers or City Building and License Inspectors may also receive complaints, investigate the same, and place on the court docket such complaints in the same manner as police officers.
(Prior Code, § 13-8; Code 2004, § 54-8)
Sec. 24-8. - Posting signs on posts, trees, poles.
It shall be unlawful to tack, nail, or otherwise place any signs on posts, trees, or poles of the City without permission of the Mayor and Council.
(Prior Code, § 13-9; Code 2004, § 54-9)
Sec. 24-9. - Radios and phonographs; permission required.
(a)
Sound measurement standards for law enforcement personnel. For the purposes of this section, the term "plainly audible" shall mean any sound emanating from the specific sound-producing sources set forth in subsection (b) of this section which can be heard from the distances set forth below, using the following sound measurement standards: Measurement shall be by the auditory senses of a person standing at a distance no less than the required minimum distance from the source of the sound. For music and other noise, words and phrases need not be discernable. For music and other noise, bass reverberations are included.
(b)
Prohibited conduct. Restrictions of 100 feet for 11:00 p.m. through 7:00 a.m. shall apply to mechanical sound-making devices. It is unlawful for any person to play, use, operate, or permit to be played, used, or operated any radio receiving device, television, stereo, musical instrument, phonograph sound amplifier or other machines or devices for the producing, reproducing or amplifying of sound and/or noise at such a volume and in such a manner so as to create, or cause to be created, any noises or sounds which are plainly audible at a distance of 100 feet or more from the building, structure, or motor vehicle or in the case of real property, beyond the property limits, in which it is located, whichever is farthest, between the hours of 11:00 p.m. and 7:00 a.m.
(Prior Code, § 13-10; Code 2004, § 54-10)
Sec. 24-10. - Resisting arrest.
It shall be unlawful for any person to resist any police officer of the City who, at the time of encountering resistance, shall be in the act of making, or attempting to make, a lawful arrest of such person. The term "resist," as used in this section, means any act of whatever kind and nature designed to prevent the effecting of a lawful arrest.
(Prior Code, § 13-11; Code 2004, § 54-11)
Sec. 24-11. - Throwing stones and other missiles.
No person shall pitch, throw, or cast any stone or missile at or upon any house, window, lamp, electric light or telephone pole or fixture, or tree or vehicle in the City.
(Prior Code, § 13-12; Code 2004, § 54-12)
Sec. 24-12. - Vagrancy.
(a)
A person commits the offense of loitering or prowling when he is in a place at a time or in a manner not usual for law-abiding individuals under circumstances that warrant a justifiable and reasonable alarm or immediate concern for the safety of persons or property in the vicinity.
(b)
Among the circumstances which may be considered in determining whether alarm is warranted is the fact that the person takes flight upon the appearance of a law enforcement officer, refuses to identify himself, or manifestly endeavors to conceal himself or any object. Unless flight by the person or other circumstances make it impracticable, a law enforcement officer shall, prior to any arrest for an offense under this section, afford the person an opportunity to dispel any alarm or immediate concern which would otherwise be warranted by requesting the person to identify himself and explain his presence and conduct. No person shall be convicted of an offense under this section if the law enforcement officer failed to comply with the foregoing procedure or if it appears at trial that the explanation given by the person was true and would have dispelled the alarm or immediate concern.
(Prior Code, § 13-17; Code 2004, § 54-15)
Sec. 24-13. - Watching exhibitions and games without paying admission.
It shall be unlawful to climb on the fences of any fairground or baseball park, or other like place of amusement while any exhibition is in progress therein, or to enter any roped-off enclosure wherein any game or exhibition is in progress except at the regular entrance, or to stop any automobile or other vehicle in the immediate vicinity thereof, for the purpose of standing or sitting thereon, and thereby obtaining a view of such game or exhibition without paying the usual entrance fee charged.
(Prior Code, § 13-18; Code 2004, § 54-16)
Sec. 24-14. - Shoplifting and other thefts.
(a)
A person commits the offense of theft by shoplifting when such person alone or in concert with another person, with the intent of appropriating merchandise to his or her own use without paying for the same or to deprive the owner of possession thereof or of the value thereof, in whole or in part, does any of the following:
(1)
Conceals or takes possession of the goods or merchandise of any store or retail establishment;
(2)
Alters the price tag or other price marking on goods or merchandise of any store or retail establishment;
(3)
Transfers the goods or merchandise of any store or retail establishment from one container to another;
(4)
Interchanges the label or price tag from one item of merchandise with a label or price tag for another item of merchandise; or
(5)
Wrongfully causes the amount paid to be less than the merchant's stated price for the merchandise.
(b)
A person convicted of the offense of theft by shoplifting, as provided in subsection (a) of this section, when the property which was the subject of the theft is $500.00 or less in value, shall be punished as for a misdemeanor
(Code 2004, § 54-17; Ord. No. 108, §§ 1, 2, 5-2-1977)
Sec. 24-15. - Picketing, marching, carrying placards or banners on public streets or sidewalks.
(a)
Generally. It shall be unlawful for any person to picket, march, carry placards or banners upon, over, or around or congregate upon the public streets or sidewalks of the City, unless such person shall have first obtained a permit from the mayor or the City authorizing such activity. Any person desiring such a permit must make application 72 hours before the picketing, marching, or activity is to take place, and shall set forth the purpose, the time, place, and activity to take place. The permit, if granted, shall be on the person of the person granted the permit at all times any such picketing, marching, or congregating upon the public streets or sidewalks is taking place. Any person guilty of the violation of this section shall be subject to section 1-9.
(b)
Picketing or marching regulations. It shall be unlawful for any person who has been granted a permit under this section to picket, march, congregate or carry placards upon, over, or about the streets or sidewalks of the City, except under the following conditions and regulations:
(1)
All picketing or marching shall be orderly and peaceful so as not to be a public hazard or nuisance.
(2)
No picket or marcher may talk, shout, or converse with any other nonparticipating person while picketing or marching.
(3)
All pickets or marchers shall keep moving at all times and pickets shall march in single file with at least ten feet between each picket. Marchers shall march two abreast.
(4)
No sign, placard or banner shall contain any obscene language or racial or religious epithet.
(5)
No picket or marcher may trespass on private property or destroy public property.
(6)
No picket or marcher shall stop or block any public street, sidewalk or thoroughfare or any private walkway or driveway.
(7)
No picket or marcher shall stop or block any person or vehicle which desires to move through any picket line.
(Code 2004, § 54-18; Ord. of 4-13-1981)
