Chapter 20 - LAW ENFORCEMENT[1]

Footnotes:
--- (1) ---
State Law reference— Law enforcement officer appreciation day, O.C.G.A. § 1-4-6; peace officer memorial day and police week, O.C.G.A. § 1-4-7; Georgia Peace Officer Standards and Training Act, O.C.G.A. § 35-8-1 et seq.; training requirements for Police Chiefs, O.C.G.A. § 35-8-20; special police, O.C.G.A. § 35-9-1 et seq.; compensation of a municipal law enforcement officers to be by fixed salary only, O.C.G.A. § 36-30-9; municipality's liability for torts of police or other officers, O.C.G.A. § 36-33-3; definition of police officer for purpose of state traffic laws, O.C.G.A. § 40-1-1; fleeing or attempting to elude police officers, impersonating law enforcement officer, O.C.G.A. § 40-6-395; public officer causing arrest or detention for violation involving public records, documents, and other items not civilly liable, O.C.G.A. § 45-11-1(d); assault under color of office, O.C.G.A. § 45-11-3; tort liability for false arrest, O.C.G.A. § 51-7-1 et seq.; tort liability for false imprisonment, O.C.G.A. § 51-70-20; tort liability for malicious prosecution, O.C.G.A. § 51-7-40; authority to provide for police protection, Ga. Const. art. IX, § II, ¶ III(a)(1).

Sec. 20-1. - Duties of Police Department personnel.
It shall be the duty of the officers of the Police Department to acquire a full knowledge of and to enforce all the ordinances of the City and all statutes applicable therein, to become familiar with the rules and regulations established by the Police Chief concerning the discipline, good order, proper conduct, care and management of the Police Department, and to respect and obey all orders of the City Council, not in conflict with the law or ordinances of the City.
(Prior Code, § 14-1; Code 2004, § 46-1)
Sec. 20-2. - Impersonating police officer.
It shall be unlawful for any person, not being a police officer in the City, to assume to act, or to act as or represent himself as a police officer.
(Prior Code, § 14-2; Code 2004, § 46-2)
Sec. 20-3. - Police officers and vehicles to remain at headquarters.
At all times when on duty, but not actually patrolling or performing official duties specified in this chapter, police officers and police vehicles shall remain at police headquarters, except as may be authorized by the City Council.
(Prior Code, § 14-4; Code 2004, § 46-4)
Sec. 20-4. - Obedience to orders of police officers.
It shall be unlawful for any person to willfully fail or refuse to comply with any lawful order or direction of a police officer of the City.
(Prior Code, § 14-5; Code 2004, § 46-5)
Sec. 20-5. - Chief of police.
(a)
Appointment; duties of.
(1)
The Chief of Police shall be appointed by the Mayor, by and with the advice and consent of the Council and shall be the chief executive officer of the Police Department, subject always to the orders and regulations of the Mayor and Council. In the exercise of his duties, the Police Chief shall have the power to establish and enforce rules and regulations for the government of the members and employees of the Department, which rules shall, however, be consistent with the ordinances of the City and law.
(2)
The Chief of Police of the City shall have the following duties:
a.
To attend all meetings of the City Council when requested and all trials before the municipal court;
b.
To see to the proper service of all summonses or subpoenas, citations, executions, attachments and rules of the City Council;
c.
To see to the collection of all fines and costs imposed by the municipal court;
d.
To see that the ordinances, rules and regulations of the City and all statutes applicable therein are faithfully enforced;
e.
To preserve the public peace, prevent infractions of the law and arrest violators thereof;
f.
To protect the rights of persons and property;
g.
To oversee the conduct of the officers and men of the police force, and to be held strictly responsible for such conduct and for the general good order of the Department;
h.
To manage and maintain the City police station and keep adequate records of all personnel and equipment of the Department including a log of all questions, activities and investigations;
i.
To submit a monthly report to the Mayor and Council outlining the number and type of arrests for state offenses, the number and type of cases involving violations of municipal ordinances, and the number of arrests made and cases reported by each police officer;
j.
To discharge such other duties as may be required of him by the Mayor or Council.
(b)
Resignation, removal, death or disability. In the event of resignation, removal, death or disability of the Chief of Police, the officer next in rank shall perform the duties of the Chief until removal of such disability or until a successor has been duly appointed.
(Prior Code, §§ 14-6, 14-7; Code 2004, § 46-6)
Sec. 20-6. - Conduct of police officers.
Every member of the Police Department shall conduct himself or herself in a proper and law-abiding manner at all times and shall avoid the use of unnecessary force. Prohibited conduct shall include, but not be limited to, the following:
(1)
Absence from regular hours of duty without permission;
(2)
Sleeping or loafing on duty;
(3)
Insubordination or disobedience of orders;
(4)
Engaging in any games of chance;
(5)
Drinking any intoxicating beverage while on duty or in uniform;
(6)
Willful maltreatment of any person or prisoner;
(7)
Using violent, profane or insolent language;
(8)
Acting in a disorderly, immoral or any other manner as to bring discredit upon the Department;
(9)
Giving out or releasing any information covering the affairs, business or operation of the Police Department or the City without the consent of the Police Chief or City Council;
(10)
Receiving or accepting a reward from any person, firm or corporation for any services rendered in the line of duty;
(11)
Accepting bribes of money, gifts, or other articles of apparent or actual value, or accepting any fee, reward or gift of any kind from a person arrested or from any friend on his behalf while he is in custody or after his release or discharge;
(12)
Active participation in any political campaign to the neglect of his official duty;
(13)
Making an arrest for an act growing out of a personal argument on the part of the officer or any member of his family;
(14)
Engaging in any practice that tends to or does lure the public into violations of the law.
(Prior Code, § 14-8; Code 2004, § 46-7)
Sec. 20-7. - Penalties for improper conduct.
Any police officer violating the rules or regulations of the Police Department or of this chapter, upon conviction therefor by the City Council, after due notice and public hearing, or upon the plea of guilty, shall be reprimanded, fined, suspended or dismissed by the City Council. Any one or more of such penalties may be imposed in the discretion of the City Council.
(Prior Code, § 14-9; Code 2004, § 46-8)
Sec. 20-8. - Arms and uniforms.
Each officer and member of the Police Department shall be furnished with such uniform, arms and police equipment as provided for by the City Council. Uniforms shall be kept clean and pressed and shall be worn on duty at all times, unless otherwise ordered by a superior officer. The equipment, arms and uniforms furnished by the City shall be and always remain the property of the City and shall be, when a change is ordered or upon a retirement from office, returned to the City. The members of the Department shall be liable for any loss or careless destruction of or damage to their arms and uniforms.
(Prior Code, § 14-10; Code 2004, § 46-9)
Sec. 20-9. - Arrests.
Police officers shall have the power to make arrests and in exercising such power shall observe all requirements imposed by the United States Constitution and by all other provisions of law.
(Prior Code, § 14-11; Code 2004, § 46-10)
Sec. 20-10. - Resisting arrest.
It shall be unlawful for any person to resist or invite resistance to lawful arrest by or lawful orders from any police officer of the City.
(Prior Code, § 14-12; Code 2004, § 46-11)
Sec. 20-11. - Interfering with or opposing officers.
It shall be unlawful for any person in any manner to oppose or interfere with the police officers of the City in the discharge of their duties, while making arrests or otherwise.
(Prior Code, § 14-13; Code 2004, § 46-12)
Sec. 20-12. - Improperly releasing prisoners.
After the police make an arrest and the defendant is placed in jail, it shall be unlawful and punishable by a fine as a contempt of the municipal court for the police or any official of the City to release or attempt to have released such prisoner without having brought the prisoner before the municipal court for proper action or post a bond with security to ensure his appearance. Otherwise, no prisoners shall be released from jail or the case dismissed by the police except on the express order of the executive officer of the City or presiding official of the municipal court.
(Prior Code, § 14-16; Code 2004, § 46-15)
Sec. 20-13. - Disposition of stolen, abandoned or impounded property.
All personal property which comes into the custody of the Police Department, where such property has been stolen or impounded or where the ownership is unknown, shall be held for a period of 30 days awaiting claim by its owner. The owner of such property, upon proving ownership and paying all expenses and costs, including reasonable charges for storage, shall have the right to have such property returned to him. If after the expiration of 30 days the property is unclaimed, the Chief of Police shall advertise the property for sale in the newspaper in which the City's legal advertisements are printed. Such advertising shall take place at least ten days before the date set for the sale and shall give a description of the property to be sold and specify the time and place of sale. If the property is still unclaimed by the time of the sale, it shall be sold as advertised and the proceeds shall be placed in the City's treasury.
(Prior Code, § 14-17; Code 2004, § 46-16)
