Chapter 1 - GENERAL PROVISIONS

Sec. 1-1. - Designation and citation of Code.
The ordinances embraced in the following chapters and sections shall constitute and be designated as "The Code of the City of Buena Vista, Georgia," and may be so cited. This Code may also be cited as the "Buena Vista City Code" or "Code of Ordinances, City of Buena Vista, Georgia."
(Prior Code, § 1-1; Code 2004, § 1-1)
Sec. 1-2. - Definitions and rules of construction.
Terms and phrases used in this Code shall have the following meanings, unless otherwise specified:
General rule. All terms and phrases shall be construed and understood according to the common and approved usage of the language, but technical terms and phrases and such others as may have acquired a peculiar and appropriate meaning in the law shall be construed and understood according to such peculiar and appropriate meaning.
Advice and consent. The term "advice and consent" of the City Council means an affirmative vote of the majority of the entire Council.
Bond. When a bond is required, an undertaking in writing shall be sufficient.
City. The term "the City" or "this City" means the City of Buena Vista, Georgia.
City Clerk. The term "City Clerk" or "Clerk" means the Clerk of the City of Buena Vista, Georgia, as appointed by the Mayor and City Council.
Code. The term "Code" means The Code of the City of Buena Vista, Georgia, as designated in section 1-1.
Computation of time. The time within which an act is to be done as provided in any Code provision or ordinance or in any order issued pursuant to any ordinance, when expressed in days, shall be computed by excluding the first day and including the last, except that if the last day is on Sunday or a holiday, it shall be excluded; and when any such time is expressed in hours, the whole of Sunday, from 12:00 midnight to 12:00 midnight, shall be excluded.
Council, City Council. The term "the Council" or "City Council" means the City Council of the City of Buena Vista.
County. The term "the county" or "this county" means the County of Marion, Georgia.
Court. The term "court" means the municipal court of the City.
Day. The term "day" means a calendar day of 24 hours.
Delegation of authority. Whenever a provision appears requiring the head of a department or other officer of the City to do some act or perform same duty, it shall be construed to authorize such department head or officer to designate, delegate and authorize subordinates to do the required act or perform the required duty unless the terms of the provision designate otherwise.
Gender, singular and plural. Every term in any Code provision or ordinance importing the masculine gender shall extend to and be applied to females as well as males; and every term importing the singular number only shall extend and be applied to several persons or things as well as to one person or thing; and every term importing the plural number only shall extend and be applied to one person or thing as well as to several persons or things.
Governing authority, governing body. The term "governing authority" or "governing body" means the Mayor and City Council of the City of Buena Vista.
Joint authority. All terms purporting to give a joint authority to three or more City officers or other persons shall be construed as giving such authority to a majority of such officers or other persons unless it shall be otherwise expressly declared in the law giving the authority.
Judge. The term "judge" means the judge of the municipal court of the City.
Keeper and proprietor. The terms "keeper" and "proprietor" mean and include persons, firms, associations, corporations, receivers, trustees, personal representatives, clubs and partnerships, whether acting by themselves or through a servant, agent or employee.
Mayor. The term "Mayor" means the Mayor of the City of Buena Vista, Georgia.
Month. The term "month" means a calendar month.
Names of officers and departments. The name or title of any officer or department shall be read as though the words "of the City of Buena Vista" were added to such name or title.
Nontechnical and technical words. Terms and phrases shall be construed according to the common and approved usage of the language, but technical words and phrases and such others as may have acquired a peculiar and appropriate meaning in law shall be construed and understood according to such meaning.
O.C.G.A. The abbreviation "O.C.G.A." means the Official Code of Georgia Annotated, as amended.
Oath. The term "oath" shall be construed to include an affirmation in all cases in which, by law, an affirmation may be substituted for an oath, and in such cases the terms "affirm" and "affirmed" shall be equivalent to the terms "swear" and "sworn."
Or, and. The term "or" may be read "and," and the term "and" may be read "or" if the sense requires it.
Overlapping provisions. Where any provision of this Code imposes greater restrictions upon the subject matter than any general provisions imposed by this Code, the provision imposing the greater restriction or regulation shall be applicable.
Owner. The term "owner," applied to a building or land, includes any part owner, joint owner, tenant in common, joint tenant or tenant by the entirety, of the whole or a part of such building or land.
Penal ordinances. The rules of construction and definitions of terms as contained in the penal code of the state, insofar as they can be made applicable, are adopted as governing the penal ordinances of the City.
Person. The term "person" includes a corporation, firm, partnership, association, organization and any other group acting as a unit, as well as an individual.
Personal property. The term "personal property" includes every species of property except real property, as defined in this section.
Preceding, following. The terms "preceding" and "following" mean next before and next after, respectively.
Premises. Whenever the term "premises" is used, it shall mean place or places.
Property. The term "property" includes real, personal and mixed estates and interests.
Public place. The term "public place" means any park, cemetery, schoolyard or adjacent open space, or any area available and/or accessible to the public, regardless of whether privately or publicly owned.
Real property. The term "real property" includes lands, tenements and hereditaments.
Reasonable time or notice. The term "reasonable time or notice" shall be deemed to mean only such time as may be necessary for the prompt performance of the act required.
Residence. The term "residence" shall be construed to mean the place adopted by a person as his place of habitation, and to which, whenever he is absent, he has the intention of returning. When a person eats at one place and sleeps at another, the place where such person sleeps shall be deemed his residence.
Schedule of fees and charges. The term "schedule of fees and charges" means the official consolidated list maintained in the City Clerk's office, which lists rates for utility or other public enterprises, fees of any nature, deposit amounts and various charges as determined by the City Council.
Seal. The term "seal" means the City seal.
Shall, may. The term "shall" is mandatory; the term "may" is permissive.
Sheriff. The term "sheriff" means the sheriff of Marion County, Georgia.
Sidewalk. The term "sidewalk" means any portion of a street between the curbline and the adjacent property line, intended for the use of pedestrians, but shall not include any unimproved areas between the curbline and improved walkways.
Signature, subscription. The term "signature" or "subscription" includes a mark intended as such when the person cannot write.
State. The term "state" or "this state" means the State of Georgia.
Street. The term "street" means and includes any public way, road, highway, street, avenue, boulevard, parkway, alley, land, viaduct or bridge, and the approaches thereto, within the City and shall include all parts thereof constituting the designated right-of-way.
Tenant or occupant. The term "tenant" or "occupant," applied to a building or land, includes any person holding a written or oral lease of, or who occupies the whole or a part of, such building or land, either alone or with others.
Tense. The use of any verb in the present tense shall include the future when applicable.
Week. The term "week" means seven days.
Writing and written. The terms "writing" and "written" include printing and any other mode of representing words and letters.
Year. The term "year" means a calendar year.
(Prior Code, §§ 1-2, 1-3; Code 2004, §§ 1-2, 1-3)
State Law reference— Computation of time, O.C.G.A. § 1-3-1; construction of definitions, O.C.G.A. § 1-3-2; meaning of certain words, O.C.G.A. § 1-3-3.
Sec. 1-3. - Catchlines of sections; history notes and references.
(a)
The catchlines of the several sections of this Code in boldface type are intended as mere catchwords to indicate the contents of the sections and shall not be deemed or taken to be titles of such sections nor as any part of such sections nor, unless expressly so provided, shall they be so deemed when any of such sections, including the catchlines, are amended or reenacted. No provision of this Code shall be held invalid because of deficiency in any such catchline or in any heading to any chapter, article or division.
(b)
The history or source notes appearing in parentheses after sections in this Code are not intended to have any legal effect but are merely intended to indicate the source of matter contained in the section. Editor's notes, cross references, Charter references, related law references and state law references which appear after sections or subsections of this Code or which otherwise appear in footnote form are provided for the convenience of the user of this Code and have no legal effect.
(c)
All references to chapters, articles, divisions, subdivisions or sections are to chapters, articles, divisions, subdivisions or sections of this Code, unless otherwise specified.
(Code 2004, § 1-4)
State Law reference— Notes and catchlines of code sections not part of law, O.C.G.A. § 1-1-7.
Sec. 1-4. - Severability of parts of Code.
It is hereby declared to be the intention of the Mayor and Council that the sections, paragraphs, sentences, clauses and phrases of this Code are severable, and if any phrase, clause, sentence, paragraph or section of this Code shall be declared unconstitutional by the valid judgment or decree of any court of competent jurisdiction, such unconstitutionality shall not affect any of the remaining clauses, sentences, paragraphs and sections of this Code.
(Prior Code, § 1-5; Code 2004, § 1-6)
Sec. 1-5. - Effect of repeal or expiration of Code section.
(a)
The repeal of a Code section or ordinance, or its expiration by virtue of any provision contained therein, shall not affect any right accrued or any offense committed, any penalty or punishment incurred, or any proceeding commenced before the repeal took effect or the ordinance expired.
(b)
When any ordinance repealing a former Code section, ordinance, clause or provision shall be itself repealed, such repeal shall not be construed to revive such former Code section, ordinance, clause or provision, unless it shall be expressly so provided.
(c)
An ordinance which is in conflict in its entirety with a subsequent ordinance shall be deemed to be repealed in its entirety, even if no specific repealer is stated. If an ordinance is only partially in conflict with a subsequent ordinance, only the portion of the previous ordinance in conflict with the subsequent ordinance shall be deemed to have been repealed, even if a specific repealer is not stated.
(Prior Code, § 1-6; Code 2004, § 1-7)
Sec. 1-6. - Ordinances not affected by Code.
(a)
Nothing in this Code or the ordinance adopting this Code shall be construed to repeal or otherwise affect the validity of any of the following:
(1)
Any offense or act committed or done or any penalty or forfeiture incurred or any contract or right established or accruing before the effective date of this Code.
(2)
Any ordinance or resolution promising or guaranteeing the payment of money for the City or authorizing the issuance of any bonds of the City or any evidence of the City's indebtedness.
(3)
Any contract or obligation assumed by the City.
(4)
Any ordinance fixing the salary of any City officer or employee.
(5)
Any right or franchise granted by the City.
(6)
Any ordinance dedicating, naming, establishing, locating, relocating, opening, widening, paving, etc., any street or public way in the City.
(7)
Any appropriation ordinance.
(8)
Any ordinance which, by its own terms, is effective for a stated or limited term.
(9)
Any ordinance providing for local improvements and assessing taxes for such improvements.
(10)
Any zoning or subdivision ordinance.
(11)
Any ordinance dedicating or accepting any subdivision plat.
(12)
Any ordinance describing or altering the boundaries of the City.
(13)
The administrative ordinances or resolutions of the City not in conflict or inconsistent with the provisions of this Code.
(14)
Any ordinance levying or imposing taxes not included in this Code.
(15)
Any ordinance establishing or prescribing street grades in the City.
(b)
All such ordinances are hereby recognized as continuing in full force and effect to the same extent as if set out at length in this Code.
(Code 2004, § 1-8)
Sec. 1-7. - Provisions considered continuations of existing ordinances.
The provisions appearing in this Code, so far as they are the same as ordinances adopted prior to this Code and included in such Code, shall be considered as continuations and not as new enactments.
(Code 2004, § 1-9)
Sec. 1-8. - Amending Code.
(a)
All ordinances passed subsequent to this Code, which amend, repeal, or in any way affect this Code, may be numbered in accordance with the numbering system of this Code and printed for inclusion in this Code. When subsequent ordinances repeal any chapter, section or subsection or any portion thereof, such repealed portion may be excluded from such Code by omission from reprinted pages. The subsequent ordinances as numbered and printed, or omitted in the case of repeal, shall be prima facie evidence of such subsequent ordinances until such time as the Code and subsequent ordinances are readopted as a new Code of Ordinances by the Mayor and Council.
(b)
Amendments to any of the provisions of this Code may be made by specific reference to the section number of this Code in the following language: "That section _____ of The Code of the City of Buena Vista, Georgia, is hereby amended to read as follows: …." The new provision shall then be set out in full as desired.
(c)
If a new section not heretofore existing in the Code is to be added, the following language may be used: "The Code of the City of Buena Vista, Georgia, is hereby amended by adding a section, to be numbered _____, which section reads as follows: …." The new section shall then be set out in full as desired.
(d)
All sections, articles, chapters or provisions sought to be repealed must be specifically repealed by section, article or chapter number, with reference to the subject matter, as the case may be.
(Prior Code, § 1-7; Code 2004, § 1-10)
Sec. 1-9. - General penalty; continuing violations; violation as public nuisance.
(a)
In this section, the term "violation of this Code" means:
(1)
Doing an act that is prohibited or made or declared unlawful, an offense or a misdemeanor by ordinance or by rule or regulation authorized by ordinance;
(2)
Failure to perform an act that is required to be performed by ordinance or by rule or regulation authorized by ordinance; or
(3)
Failure to perform an act if the failure is declared a misdemeanor or an offense or unlawful by ordinance or by rule or regulation authorized by ordinance.
(b)
In this section, the term "violation of this Code" does not include the failure of a City officer or City employee to perform an official duty, unless it is provided that failure to perform the duty is to be punished as provided in this section or it is clear from the context that it is the intent to impose the penalty provided for in this section upon the officer or employee.
(c)
Except as otherwise provided:
(1)
A person convicted of a violation of this Code shall be punished by a fine not exceeding $500.00 and costs, or imprisonment for a term not exceeding 60 days, or both such fine and imprisonment, or any or all of such penalties to be imposed at the discretion of the judge of the City court.
(2)
With respect to violations of this Code that are continuous with respect to time, each day the violation continues is a separate offense.
(3)
With respect to violations of this Code that are not continuous with respect to time, each day the violation continues is a separate offense.
(d)
The imposition of a penalty does not prevent revocation or suspension of a license, permit or franchise or other administrative sanctions.
(e)
Violations of this Code that are continuous with respect to time are a public nuisance and may be abated by injunctive or other equitable relief and by such other means as are provided by law. The imposition of a penalty does not prevent equitable relief.
(Prior Code, § 1-8; Code 2004, § 1-11)
State Law reference— Imposition of additional penalty for certain drug offenses, O.C.G.A. § 15-21-100; imposition of additional penalty for offense of driving under the influence of alcohol or drugs, O.C.G.A. § 15-21-112; additional penalty to be imposed in criminal and traffic cases to provide training to law enforcement officers and prosecuting officials, O.C.G.A. § 15-21-73; additional penalty assessments for jail construction and staffing, O.C.G.A. § 15-21-93; punishment for misdemeanors generally, O.C.G.A. § 17-10-3; deposit of drivers license for violations of laws pertaining to traffic and motor vehicles, O.C.G.A. § 17-6-11; payments to peace officers annuity and benefit fund from revenues collected from fines and fees, O.C.G.A. § 47-17-60 et seq.; alternative punishments for violations involving a traffic offense, O.C.G.A. § 17-10-3(e).
Sec. 1-10. - Altering Code.
It shall be unlawful for any person to change or amend, by additions or deletions, any part or portion of this Code or to insert or delete pages, or portions thereof, or to alter or tamper with such Code in any manner whatsoever, except by official act of the City Council duly recorded in the City's minutes.
(Prior Code, § 1-9; Code 2004, § 1-12)
Sec. 1-11. - Supplementation of Code.
(a)
By contract or by City personnel, supplements to this Code shall be prepared at least on an annual basis. A supplement to the Code shall include all substantive, permanent and general parts of ordinances passed by the City Council during the period covered by the supplement and all changes made by the supplement in the Code. The pages of a supplement shall be so numbered that they will fit properly into the Code and will, where necessary, replace pages that have become obsolete or partially obsolete; and the new pages shall be so prepared that, when they have been inserted, the Code will be current through the date of the adoption of the latest ordinance included in the supplement.
(b)
In preparing a supplement to this Code, all portions of the Code that have been repealed shall be excluded from the Code by their omission from reprinted pages.
(c)
When preparing a supplement to this Code, the codifier (meaning the person authorized to prepare the supplement) may make formal, nonsubstantive changes in ordinances and parts of ordinances included in the supplement, insofar as it is necessary to do so to embody them into a unified code. For example, the codifier may:
(1)
Organize the ordinance material into appropriate subdivisions.
(2)
Provide appropriate catchlines, headings and titles for sections and other subdivisions of the Code printed in the supplement, and make changes in such catchlines, headings and titles.
(3)
Assign appropriate numbers to sections and other subdivisions to be inserted in the Code and, where necessary to accommodate new material, change existing section or other subdivision numbers.
(4)
Change the words "this ordinance" or words of the same meaning to "this chapter," "this article," "this division," etc., as the case may be, or to "sections _____ to _____" (inserting section numbers to indicate the sections of the Code that embody the substantive sections of the ordinance incorporated into the Code).
(5)
Make other nonsubstantive changes necessary to preserve the original meaning of ordinance sections inserted into the Code, but in no case shall the codifier make any change in the meaning or effect of ordinance material included in the supplement or already embodied in the Code.
(Code 2004, § 1-13)
Sec. 1-12. - Interpretation of Code.
In all interpretations of this Code, and ordinances, the courts shall look diligently for the intention of the City Council, keeping in view, at all times, the old law, the evil, and the remedy. Grammatical errors shall not vitiate, and a transposition of words and clauses may be resorted to when the sentence or clause is without meaning as it stands.
State Law reference— Similar provisions as to state laws, O.C.G.A. § 1-3-1.
Sec. 1-13. - Substantive compliance with Code.
Substantive compliance with any requirement of the Code, or ordinances, especially on the part of public officers, shall be deemed and held sufficient, and no proceeding shall be declared void for want of such compliance, unless expressly so provided by the enactment.
Sec. 1-14. - Prior offenses, penalties, contracts, or rights not affected by adoption of Code.
(a)
Nothing in this Code or the ordinance adopting this Code shall affect any offense or act committed or done or any penalty or forfeiture incurred or any contract or right established or accruing before the effective date of this Code.
(b)
The adoption of this Code shall not be interpreted as authorizing or permitting any use or the continuance of any use of a structure or premises in violation of any ordinance or resolution in effect on the date of adoption of this Code.
Sec. 1-15. - Rates, charges, and fees established.
(a)
Unless otherwise provided for, all rates, charges, or fees necessary for the administration and enforcement of the provisions of this Code shall be as currently established or as hereafter adopted by motion, resolution or ordinance of the City Council, from time to time. Any rates, charges, or fees established by the City pursuant to the regulations or requirements established herein may be changed from time to time by the City Council, and such changes shall be considered an amendment to this Code.
(b)
Whenever any provision of this Code provides that a rate, charge, or fee shall be established by the City Council, from time to time, and the amount of such rate, charge, or fee is not expressed in this Code in any dollar amount, then the amount of such rate, charge, or fee shall be the most recent and latest amount established, set or fixed by the City Council by ordinance, resolution or motion.
