Chapter 6 - ANIMALS[1]
Footnotes:
--- (1) ---
State Law reference— Dogfighting, O.C.G.A. § 16-12-37; cruelty to animals, O.C.G.A. § 16-2-4; sale of dog meat for human consumption prohibited, O.C.G.A. § 26-2-160; fish, O.C.G.A. § 27-4-30 et seq.; wild animals, O.C.G.A. § 27-5-4 et seq.; control of rabies, O.C.G.A. § 31-19-1 et seq.; animal bites, O.C.G.A. § 31-19-4; inoculation of dogs and cats against rabies, O.C.G.A. § 31-19-5; rabies inoculation tags, O.C.G.A. § 31-19-5; Georgia Animal Protection Act, O.C.G.A. § 4-11-1 et seq.; livestock running at large, O.C.G.A. § 4-3-1 et seq.; Dead Animal Disposal Act, O.C.G.A. § 4-5-1 et seq.; Dangerous Dog Control Law, O.C.G.A. § 4-8-20 et seq.; permitting dogs in heat to run at large, O.C.G.A. § 4-8-6; liability of owner or keeper of vicious or dangerous animal for injuries caused by animal, O.C.G.A. § 51-2-7; authority to exercise animal control, Ga. Const. art. IX, § II, ¶ III(a)(3).

ARTICLE I. - IN GENERAL

Sec. 6-1. - City designated bird sanctuary.
(a)
The entire area embraced within the corporate limits of the City is designated as a bird sanctuary.
(b)
It shall be unlawful to trap, hunt, shoot or attempt to shoot or molest in any manner any bird or wild fowl or to rob bird nests or wild fowl nests; provided, however, that if vandal birds are found to be congregating in such numbers in a particular locality that they constitute a nuisance or menace to health or property in the opinion of the proper health authorities of the City, such authority is authorized to approve the disposal of such birds.
(c)
Any individual may prevent any such vandal birds from destroying crops or fruit without authority of the health officer.
(Prior Code, § 4-1; Code 2004, § 10-1)
Sec. 6-2. - Animal and fowl.
(a)
Running at large. It shall be unlawful for the owner, keeper or person having control of any wild or domestic animal or fowl to permit the same to run at large upon any street or public ground of the City or upon the property of any other person.
(b)
Impounding required. The police may seize and impound any wild or domestic animal or fowl found running at large in violation of subsection (a) of this section, and to safely keep the same until it shall be redeemed by its owner, upon the payment of a pound fee as specified in the fee schedule on file in the Clerk's office for each head so impounded, and all costs of caring for and feeding the same while so impounded.
(c)
Redemption or sale. The City shall act in accordance with state law regarding redemption or sale of impounded animals or foul.
(Prior Code, §§ 4-1—4-4; Code 2004, § 10-2)
Sec. 6-3. - Barns, stables, hog pens; location; consent of neighbors.
(a)
It shall be an offense to build any barn, stable or hog pen within 50 feet of any of the streets of the City, except as provided in this section.
(b)
Any person desiring to build a barn, stable or hog pen within 50 feet of any of the streets of the City shall first secure from all the adjoining property owners and from those owning property on the opposite side of the street within 100 feet of the proposed structure their written consent to the building of such structure and shall file such written consent with the Clerk at the time of securing a permit for such building. The Clerk shall not issue any permit for any barn, stable or hog pen to be so located unless such consent shall be filed with him.
(c)
It shall be unlawful for any person to build a barn, stable or hog pen without getting the consent and filing it with the Clerk, and such barn, stable or hog pen constructed without compliance as stated in this section shall be removed within ten days by the owner after notice in writing by the City Clerk, or by the police at the owner's expense, as a nuisance at the expiration of such notice.
(Prior Code, § 4-5; Code 2004, § 10-3)
Sec. 6-4. - Cleanliness of premises for animals and fowl.
All places and premises in the City where horses, mules, cattle, rabbits, dogs, pigs, hogs, chickens, or other animals or fowl are harbored or confined shall be kept clean, sanitary and free of noxious odors and shall be maintained in such a manner as will effectively prevent the propagation of flies in or about such premises. The maintaining or ownership of a place or premises in violation of this section shall be a misdemeanor, and in addition, such place or premises shall be deemed a nuisance and may be abated in accordance with law.
(Prior Code, § 4-6; Code 2004, § 10-4)
Secs. 6-5—6-26. - Reserved.
ARTICLE II. - DOGS

Sec. 6-27. - Definitions.
The following words, terms and phrases, when used in this article, shall have the meanings ascribed to them in this section, except where the context clearly indicates a different meaning:
Dog means all members of the canine family, three months or more of age, and also pet foxes, wolves, etc.
Inoculation against rabies means the injection, subcutaneously or otherwise as approved by the State Department of Public Health, of canine anti-rabic vaccine approved by the State Department of Public Health.
Owner means any person having a right or property in the dog, or who keeps or harbors a dog, has it in his care, acts as its custodian, or permits a dog to remain on or about any premises occupied by him.
(Prior Code, § 4-13 Code 2004, § 10-31)
Sec. 6-28. - Chain or leash required.
It shall be unlawful for any person to cause, permit, or allow any dog to be off the premises of the owner, unless the dog is accompanied by its owner or other person having charge of such dog, in which event the dog must be tied with a cord or chain of sufficient strength to hold him.
(Prior Code, § 4-14; Code 2004, § 10-32)
Sec. 6-29. - Dogs running at large; impounding required.
Any dogs found running at large upon the streets, sidewalks, or alleys of the City shall be caught and impounded by police officers or other officer as the City may direct and kept for a period of 48 hours unless claimed by its owner, in which event such owner shall pay an impounding fee specified in the fee schedule on file in the Clerk's office plus a fee per day as specified in the fee schedule on file in the Clerk's office for board to the City Clerk. Should such dog not be claimed within 48 hours, then the dog shall be disposed of by the City or other officer as the City may direct.
(Prior Code, § 4-15; Code 2004, § 10-33)
Sec. 6-30. - Liability of owner.
In addition to the payment of the impounding fee, the owner of such dog impounded shall also be subject to prosecution for a violation of the provisions of this article relating to the keeping or maintaining of a dog which has not been properly tagged and inoculated.
(Prior Code, § 4-16; Code 2004, § 10-34)
Sec. 6-31. - Actions constituting nuisance.
No person shall allow a dog of which he has custody or control to remain on his property or premises if the same shall constitute a nuisance as such term is defined by law. For purposes of this section, it shall constitute a nuisance per se for such animal to bark, howl, whine, or emit any noises whatsoever in a continuous manner for a period of one hour or longer so as to disturb any occupant of any adjacent or adjoining property within hearing distance of such animal.
(Prior Code, § 4-18; Code 2004, § 10-35)
Sec. 6-32. - Rabies.
(a)
If a dog is believed to have rabies or has been bitten by an animal suspected of having rabies, such dog shall promptly be confined by a chain to the owner's premises. The owner shall then immediately notify a police officer of the fact that his dog has been exposed to rabies, and, at the discretion of the police office or other official designated by the City, the dog shall be removed from the owner's premises to a veterinary hospital and there placed under observation for a period of two weeks at the expense of the owner.
(b)
It shall be unlawful for any person knowing or suspecting a dog to have rabies to allow such dog to be taken off his premises or beyond the limits of the City without the written permission of the City Council.
(c)
Whenever a dog is ascertained to be rabid, notification of the same shall be made to a police officer of the City, who shall cause such dog to be removed from the City and immediately disposed of.
(Prior Code, § 4-21; Code 2004, § 10-36)
Sec. 6-33. - Vaccination of dogs.
It shall be unlawful for any person to own, maintain or harbor in the City any dog three months of age or over, unless such dog has been vaccinated against rabies and hold current evidence of such vaccination issued in accordance with provisions of this article. Prior to June 30 of each year, all persons who own, maintain, or harbor any dog three months of age or older shall cause such dog to be vaccinated against rabies as defined by this article; provided, however, that when an attenuated vaccine is used, vaccination shall be required at least every three years, and a veterinarian shall issue or cause to be issued an annual certificate of vaccination and a rabies vaccination tag each year for two additional years. Dogs less than three months of age shall be confined to the owner's premises and not allowed to run at large.
(Code 2004, § 10-37; Ord. of 5-1-1966, § III)
Sec. 6-34. - Evidence of vaccination.
(a)
Evidence of vaccination shall consist of a certificate of vaccination tag issued to the owner at the time the vaccine is administered. The certificate shall be signed by the veterinarian administering the vaccine.
(b)
Any veterinarian is authorized in connection with his practice to issue certificates of vaccination and vaccination tags in accordance with the provisions of this article.
(c)
The vaccination tag bearing the same number and year thereon as the certificate bears shall be worn by the dog for which the certificate and tag have been issued in a manner approved by the City Council.
(Code 2004, § 10-38; Ord. of 5-1-1966, § IV)
Sec. 6-35. - Vicious dogs.
It shall be unlawful for the owner of a vicious dog kept in the City, when the owner is notified or has knowledge of its viciousness, to permit such dog to go upon or have access to the streets or public areas of the City, unless such dog is muzzled so as to make it impossible for it to bite. A dog shall be deemed vicious which has bitten or attempted to bite any person. Any such vicious dog shall be reported to the Chief of Police, who shall then notify the owner of the dog.
(Code 2004, § 10-40; Ord. of 5-1-1966, § VI)
Sec. 6-36. - Female dogs.
It shall be unlawful for any person to allow a female dog, when in breeding season, to go upon or have access to the streets, roads or public areas of the City.
(Code 2004, § 10-41; Ord. of 5-1-1966, § VII)
Sec. 6-37. - Destruction of animals.
(a)
Dogs or other animals, whether vaccinated or not, which have bitten a person or animal and those suspected of having rabies, shall be destroyed by the Chief of Police; except, however, in cases deemed not contrary to public safety, such animals may be quarantined to the premises of the owner or to an animal hospital or kennel designated by the owner, or other place which meets the requirements and approval of the Chief of Police. Such animals shall be confined and quarantined for observation for a period of ten days following the date of the bite.
(b)
Dogs or other animals within any of the following classes may be captured and/or destroyed:
(1)
Dogs whose ownership is unknown.
(2)
Vicious dogs and animals of all kinds.
(3)
Females in breeding season not confined to the premises of owners.
(4)
Dogs or other animals that have been bitten by an animal suspected of having rabies.
(5)
Dogs not wearing an unexpired State Department of Public Health vaccination tag.
(c)
No dog shall be exempted from provisions of destruction by virtue of having a vaccination certificate or tag.
(Code 2004, § 10-42; Ord. of 5-1-1966, § VIII)
Sec. 6-38. - Reporting.
The owner or custodian of any animal having suspicious signs of rabies shall confine the animal and immediately notify the Chief of Police, reporting any information to him relative to any person bitten or attacked by such animal.
(Code 2004, § 10-43; Ord. of 5-1-1966, § IX)
Sec. 6-39. - Penalties for violation of article.
Any person who violates any provision of this article shall be guilty of a misdemeanor. Each and every violation of the provisions of this article shall constitute a separate offense.
(Code 2004, § 10-44; Ord. of 5-1-1966, § X)
