ARTICLE V. - CERTIFICATES

Sec. 8-506. - Certificate of occupancy.
(a)
A new building shall not be occupied or a change made in the occupancy, nature or use of a building or part of a building until after the building official has issued a certificate of occupancy. Said certificate shall not be issued until all required electrical, gas, mechanical, plumbing and fire protection systems have been inspected for compliance with the construction codes and other applicable laws and ordinances and released by the building official.
(b)
Upon satisfactory completion of construction of a building or structure and installation of electrical, gas, mechanical and plumbing systems in accordance with the construction codes, reviewed plans and specifications, and after the final inspection, the building official shall issue a certificate of occupancy stating the nature of the occupancy permitted, the number of persons for each floor when limited by law, and the allowable load per square foot for each floor in accordance with the provisions of the construction codes.
(c)
A temporary/partial certificate of occupancy may be issued for a portion of a building, which may safely be occupied prior to final completion of the building.
(d)
For any existing building, a person may apply to the building official to obtain a certificate of occupancy and supply the information and data necessary to determine compliance with the construction codes for the occupancy intended. Where necessary, in the building official's opinion, two sets of detailed drawings, or a general inspection, or both, may be required. When, upon examination and inspection, it is found that the building conforms to the provisions of the construction codes and other applicable laws and ordinances for such occupancy, a certificate of occupancy shall be issued.
(Ord. No. 2012-04, § 2, 11-5-2012)
Sec. 8-507. - Certificate of completion.
Upon satisfactory completion of a building, structure, electrical, gas, mechanical or plumbing system, a certificate of completion may be issued. This certificate is proof that a structure or system is complete and for certain types of permits is released for use and may be connected to a utility system. This certificate does not grant authority to occupy or connect a building, such as a shell building, prior to the issuance of a certificate of occupancy.
(Ord. No. 2012-04, § 2, 11-5-2012)
Secs. 8-508—8-536. - Reserved.
