ARTICLE XV. - M-1—LIGHT INDUSTRIAL DISTRICT

Sec. 42-419. - Purpose; intent.
The M-1—Light Industrial District is established with the purpose of reserving certain areas with relatively level topography, adequate water and sewerage facilities, and access to arterial streets for industrial operations, but where such areas' proximity to residential and other districts makes it desirable to limit industrial operations to those that are not objectionable by reason of the emission of noise, vibration, smoke, dust, gas, fumes, odors or radiation and that do not create fire or explosion hazards or other objectionable conditions. Uses within this district do not require substantial quantities of water for manufacturing operations and do not necessary require rail, air and water transportation. Certain commercial uses having an open storage characteristic, or which are most appropriately located as neighbors of industrial uses, are also included within this district.
(Ord. of 10-2-1995, § 86-1601)
Sec. 42-420. - Permitted uses.
(a)
Accessory uses and structures normally incidental to permitted principal uses, including offices, showrooms and administrative facilities.
(b)
Contractor's establishments.
(c)
Distribution of products and merchandise.
(d)
Dry cleaning plants.
(e)
Exterminators and pest control businesses.
(f)
Kennels.
(g)
Lumber yards, planning and sawmills.
(h)
Machine shops.
(i)
Miniwarehouses and mini-storage facilities.
(j)
Parking garages and parking lots.
(k)
Public and semi-public buildings, structures and uses.
(l)
Racetracks for animals or motor-driven vehicles; provided the site contains a minimum of 15 acres.
(m)
Radio and television broadcasting towers and cellular phone antennas.
(n)
Repair of household appliances.
(o)
Recycling plants, including any processing activities.
(p)
Research and scientific laboratories.
(q)
Residences for caretaker or night watchman.
(r)
Sign fabrication and painting shops.
(s)
Services, automotive.
(t)
Storage buildings and storage yards, including unenclosed.
(u)
Soft drink bottling and distributing plants.
(v)
Transportation, communication and utility facilities.
(w)
Welding shops.
(x)
Wholesaling, wholesale distribution and warehousing facilities.
(Ord. of 10-2-1995, § 86-1602)
Sec. 42-421. - Area, height, density and placement requirements.
As specified in article XVIII of this chapter.
(Ord. of 10-2-1995, § 86-1603)
Secs. 42-422—42-440. - Reserved.
