ARTICLE XIV. - AMENDMENTS

Section 14.1. - Authority.
This ordinance, including the Calhoun zoning map, may be amended from time to time, but no amendment shall become effective unless it shall have been proposed by, or shall first have been submitted to the mayor and council of the City of Calhoun for review. Action shall not be initiated for a zoning amendment affecting the same parcel more often than once every 12 months.
Section 14.2. - Public hearing.
14.2.1. These policies and procedures shall govern the conducting of:
1.
Any public hearing held by the mayor and council of the City of Calhoun when considering any annexation request, zoning request after annexation, rezoning request, zoning variance request and any change or amendment to the City of Calhoun Zoning Ordinance, all of which are hereinafter referred to as "zoning decisions";
2.
Any public hearing held by the zoning advisory board concerning a zoning decision; and
3.
Any public hearing held by the board of zoning appeals concerning a zoning decision. The mayor and council, the zoning advisory board and the board of zoning appeals are hereinafter referred to as the "zoning authority."
14.2.2. Before taking action resulting in a zoning decision the zoning authority shall call for a public hearing on the proposed action. At least 15 but not more than 45 days prior to the date of the public hearing, the zoning authority through the city administrator's office shall cause to be published within a newspaper of general circulation within the territorial boundaries of the City of Calhoun a notice of the hearing. The notice shall state the time, place and purpose of the hearing. The notice shall also include the location of the property, the present zoning classification of the property and the proposed zoning classification of the property. A sign containing the time, place and purpose of the public hearing shall be placed in a conspicuous location on the property not less than 15 days prior to the date of the hearing. The sign or signs required herein shall not be less than 36 inches by 36 inches and shall face toward all public street, alleys, sidewalks or other public property adjoining said property. Such signs shall be placed not more than 50 feet from the boundary line of said property and shall be placed where they can easily be seen from all public streets and property adjoining said property.
14.2.3. All public hearings called by any zoning authority of the City of Calhoun shall be conducted in the following manner:
1.
The mayor or hearing officer (hereinafter "presiding officer") will introduce zoning decision matters listed on the regular council meeting agenda under "Public Hearings and Comments." The items will be listed and introduced in alphabetical order.
2.
Before the zoning advisory board and the board of zoning appeals the zoning decision matters listed will be introduced in alphabetical order by the chairman or designee (hereinafter "presiding officer") who will then follow the procedures hereinafter set forth except that such zoning decision matter shall require only one initial reading before the public hearing is opened and action can be taken.
3.
The presiding officer shall read the application for the zoning decision for the second time prior to the public hearing being opened and then open the public hearing.
4.
The presiding officer shall ask for a report from the city administrator and/or the building inspector as to the publications of public notice of said hearing, the placing of the required signs on the property containing notice of said hearing, and proof of notice of application to all adjoining landowners.
5.
The presiding officer shall ask for the recommendation of the zoning advisory board chairman and/or his designee prior to receiving other comments.
6.
The applicant for the zoning decision may make a presentation if the applicant desires.
7.
The applicants may be questioned by the zoning authority.
8.
The zoning authority shall receive comments from the general public in support of and in opposition to the zoning application request. Any person speaking in support of or in opposition to the zoning application request is specifically advised to disclose any financial interests as required by O.C.G.A. Title 36, Ch. 67A (O.C.G.A. § 36-67A-1 et seq.).
9.
Each person making comments shall first give their name and address for the record, prior to making comments or presenting documents.
10.
The applicant for the zoning decision will be permitted to rebut negative comments.
11.
The presiding officer shall then close the public hearing. The zoning authority will discuss in open meeting the zoning application request among themselves.
12.
After discussion and deliberation the zoning authority may do any of the following:
a.
Continue the matter to the zoning authority's next regular meeting and thereafter for one or more regular meetings to allow for further study and consideration. Any additional information or materials received by the zoning authority shall be reported at the next regular meeting after receipt of said information and materials, and comments shall be received which address said materials and information and all related relevant facts, or
b.
Approve the zoning decision, or
c.
Deny the zoning decision, or
d.
Approve the zoning decision with specified conditions, or
e.
Approve a different zoning decision from the one requested, if better suited to the area. Should the public hearing be continued to a subsequent regular meeting the presiding officer may allow additional comments in favor of and in opposition to said zoning application request under the same procedures set forth hereinabove.
f.
Following completion of the zoning matters under "Public Hearings and Comments" portion of the agenda, the meeting will continue with other business as scheduled on the agenda.
g.
The presiding officer at any public hearing of a zoning decision shall set such time limits for each side of the presentation of data, evidence and opinions supporting or opposing the zoning decision. Such time limit for each side shall be equal and shall not be less than ten minutes to each side.
Section 14.3. - Procedures—Defeated zoning decisions and withdrawal of applications.
If the zoning decision is denied by the mayor and council, no new application for a zoning decision concerning the same property or any part thereof will be considered until the expiration of at least 12 months immediately following the denial of the zoning decision by the mayor and council. Any landowner who files an application to amend the zoning map of Calhoun, Georgia and wishes to withdraw same must do so at least 72 hours before the matter is to be considered by the zoning advisory board or the mayor and council otherwise said application shall remain on the agenda and be acted upon by the zoning advisory board or mayor and council at the scheduled meeting, unless the failure to withdraw the application was caused by emergency or personal hardship.
Section 14.4. - Procedures for requesting a zoning decision.
Any landowner requesting a zoning decision (change) shall file a written application entitled "Application to Amend the Zoning Map of Calhoun, Georgia for Zoning Consideration" available at Calhoun city hall. The application shall contain no less than the following:
1.
Name and address of the applicant;
2.
Description of the property in such a manner to identify same to a lay person;
3.
Current zoning;
4.
Current use of property;
5.
Names and addresses of all present landowners who bound the property on all sides whether or not separated by any public or private street or road or natural boundary;
6.
Names and addresses or [of] lessees of the property;
7.
Requested zoning classifications or variance and reason for change or need.
Said applicant [application] shall be sworn to be true and correct and shall be signed by the landowner or authorized representative requesting the relief stated in the application. The application, along with a $20.00 nonrefundable fee, shall be presented to the City of Calhoun. The applicant shall mail a copy of said application to all present adjoining landowners who bound the property on all sides whether or not separated by any public or private street or road or natural boundary and any lessee of the property. Said application shall be mailed by certified mail, return receipt requested and said proof of receipt shall be filed with the City of Calhoun prior to any public hearing called to consider said application. The written consent or [of] any adjoining landowner or lessee shall be accepted in lieu of postal receipt of notice.
Section 14.5. - Standards for considering zoning decisions.
The mayor and council of the City of Calhoun find that the increasing urbanization of this municipality requires that certain uniformity in procedures and standards be adopted to ensure that zoning decisions will be made consistently and wisely and in keeping with the long range requirements of the public health, safety and welfare. The mayor and council further find that the issues pertaining to annexation of territory to the municipality, zoning changes, and zoning variances within the municipality are commonly similar and therefore should be considered in the same manner at the municipal level subject only to the mandates of state and federal laws and regulations. The mayor and council further find that the procedures required by this ordinance will help the citizens of this municipality in presenting and articulating their viewpoints on zoning matters and will ensure that zoning matters are made on the basis of a record which will contain matters.
The mayor and council, the zoning advisory board and the board of zoning appeals shall use the following standards when considering a zoning decision:
Zoning standards: The term "zoning proposal" shall mean to include an annexation request, a rezoning request and a zoning variance request.
1.
Whether the zoning proposal will permit a use that is suitable in view of the use and development of adjacent and nearby property.
2.
Whether the zoning proposal will adversely affect the existing use or usability of adjacent or nearby property.
3.
Whether the property to be affected by the zoning proposal has a reasonable economic use as currently zoned.
4.
Whether the zoning proposal will result in a use which will or could cause an excessive or burdensome use of existing streets, transportation facilities, utilities or schools.
5.
Whether there will be capital costs for capital improvements to serve the area. Capital costs shall include water mains, sewer mains, new street pavement or widening, new fire stations or equipment, new police stations or equipment, and other like costs.
6.
Whether the zoning proposal is in conformity with the policy and intent of the land use plan.
7.
Whether there are other existing or changing conditions affecting the use and development of the property which give supporting grounds for their approval or disapproval of the zoning proposal.
8.
Whether there are other factors relevant to balancing the interest in promoting the public health, safety, morality or general welfare against the right to the unrestricted use of property.
The foregoing zoning standards are guidelines and each zoning decision will present unique characteristics, so the guidelines set out in this ordinance are to be considered, but need not all be met for a zoning decision to be approved.
