Chapter 59 - HEALTH AND TOBACCO PRODUCTS

Sec. 59-1. - Findings.
(a)
The United States Surgeon General has stated that smoking of cigarettes and the use of tobacco products is the leading cause of premature death and disability in the United States of America. Medical evidence confirms that smoking of tobacco can be hazardous to the health of the smoker and nonsmokers. Medical research has confirmed that nonsmokers with chronic heart or lung disease can experience distress when exposed to sufficient concentrations of secondhand smoke. Many allergic individuals and healthy nonsmokers report discomfort when exposed to secondhand smoke. Recent medical studies provide sufficient evidence that long-term exposure to involuntary smoking may increase a nonsmoker's risk of developing serious lung disease.
(b)
The city safety committee has reviewed and has recommended the adoption of smoking prohibitions for buildings owned, leased or rented by the city, as well as vehicles owned or leased and operated by employees of the city.
(c)
The mayor and council find that it is in the best interest of the health, welfare and safety of the city and its citizens:
(1)
To provide a healthy, comfortable and productive working environment for its employees in city public buildings and facilities serving the public, as well as in publicly owned motor vehicles;
(2)
To protect nonsmokers;
(3)
To assist employees in adjusting to restrictions on smoking and the use of tobacco products;
(4)
To prohibit smoking of cigarettes, cigars and the use of other tobacco products in any city owned, leased or rented enclosed building space, as well as any motor vehicle or equipment owned or leased by the city.
(Ord. No. 773, § 59-1, 12-8-2003)
Sec. 59-2. - Prohibitions.
From the effective date of the ordinance from which this chapter is derived, smoking of cigarettes, cigars or the use of other tobacco products by whatever name known or called now or in the future is prohibited in any enclosed building space, as well as any motor vehicle, owned leased or rented by the city and any of its departments, agencies, boards, authorities or commissions. For purposes of this section, the term "nonsmoker" shall mean any individual who declares that he or she does not smoke cigarettes, cigars or other tobacco products or has discontinued smoking of cigarettes, cigars or other tobacco products.
(Ord. No. 773, § 59-2, 12-8-2003)
Sec. 59-3. - Conflict with other regulations.
The provision of section 59-2 will in no instance conflict with any existing or future regulations established for fire, health or safety reasons.
(Ord. No. 773, § 59-3, 12-8-2003)
Sec. 59-4. - Implementation.
The mayor and council is authorized and directed to promulgate and disseminate to all employees of the city the findings contained in this chapter and to provide for its implementation as follows:
(1)
All departments, agencies, authorities, boards, commissions and elected officials will give this chapter wide dissemination to all employees or volunteers;
(2)
All prospective new city employees will be informed of this no smoking and non-use of tobacco products chapter before they are hired; and
(3)
Signs will be placed in all appropriate spaces and city buildings indicating that smoking and the use of tobacco products is not allowed, with such signs to be uniform in language and color.
(Ord. No. 773, § 59-4, 12-8-2003)
Sec. 59-5. - Employee responsibility.
All employees of the city share in the responsibility of adhering to and enforcing this chapter.
(Ord. No. 773, § 59-5, 12-8-2003)
Sec. 59-6. - Violations and penalties.
(a)
Any violation of section 59-2 or conflict concerning its implementation shall be brought to the attention of the appropriate supervisory personnel. In all cases, the right of a nonsmoker to protect his health and comfort will take precedence over an employee or nonemployee's desire to smoke or use tobacco products.
(b)
Violations of this chapter by an employee shall be subject to appropriate disciplinary action under the provisions of the city personnel ordinance now in effect or as amended hereafter.
(c)
Any nonemployee of the city who continues to violate the provisions of section 59-2, after receiving an oral request to cease smoking of a cigarette or cigar or other use of tobacco material from authorized personnel with offices located within the enclosed building or having responsibility for the motor vehicle, shall be subject to citation to the Municipal Court of the City of Calhoun and, upon adjudication of guilt, shall be fined according to section 1-7.
(d)
The mayor and council, in implementing the provisions of this chapter, shall authorize the head of each department to enforce the posting of signs and enforcement within their individual department.
(Ord. No. 773, § 59-6, 12-8-2003)
