ARTICLE VII. - SECONDARY ELECTRIC SUPPLIERS[9]

Footnotes:
--- (9) ---
Cross reference— Utilities, ch. 94.

Sec. 22-581. - Gross receipts tax levied; filing of statement of revenues.
Each secondary electric supplier (including specifically electric membership corporations whether or not operated for profit), within the meaning of the Georgia Territorial Electric Service Act (O.C.G.A. § 46-3-1 et seq.), distributing and selling electric power within the city, which is not otherwise paying a franchise fee pursuant to a franchise agreement, and whether or not such secondary electric supplier has, operates and maintains offices within the city, shall pay a gross receipts tax at the rate of four percent on any and all gross revenue derived from distribution and sale of electric power to its customers, members, or purchasers within the city, according to the verified statement of such gross revenues which shall be submitted by such secondary electric supplier at the time the taxes are paid.
(Code 1988, § 12-170)
Sec. 22-582. - Payment of gross receipts tax; tax to be in lieu of certain other taxes.
The taxes set out in this article shall be due and payable to the city on the 20th day of each month, calculated on gross revenues billed for the immediately preceding month. The percentage of the gross revenues prescribed to be collected under this article shall be in lieu of all other license and business or occupation taxes, but shall not at any time be considered to interfere with or in any way prevent the collection of ad valorem taxes upon the property of such secondary electric supplier in the same manner as all other property, real and personal, in the city is taxed.
(Code 1988, § 12-171)
Sec. 22-583. - Suppliers not having franchise with city.
Secondary electric suppliers distributing and selling electric power within the city, and which do not have a franchise agreement with the city, do not acquire any additional rights by the payment of the tax levied under this article other than those rights granted under the Georgia Electric Territorial Service Act (O.C.G.A. § 46-3-1 et seq.).
(Code 1988, § 12-172)
Sec. 22-584. - Administration and enforcement; failure to pay tax; collection of unpaid tax.
(a)
The city clerk shall be responsible for the administration and enforcement of this article, and shall have the power to prepare and provide the necessary forms and for the collection of the tax levied in this article.
(b)
In addition to the other remedies available to the city for the collection of special taxes, occupation taxes, and regulatory fees due the city from persons subject to the tax or fee who fail or refuse to pay the tax or fee, the city clerk shall issue executions against the delinquent taxpayers for any or all of the following: the amount of the taxes or fees due when the taxes or fees become due, any penalty imposed by O.C.G.A. § 48-13-21(a), and any interest imposed by local ordinance in accordance with O.C.G.A. § 48-13-21(b). The municipal court may impose a civil fine for failure to pay the occupation tax or regulatory fee. Such a civil fine shall not exceed $500.00 and may be enforced by the contempt power of the court.
(Code 1988, § 12-173)
Cross reference— Administration, ch. 2.
Secs. 22-585—22-610. - Reserved.
