ARTICLE III. - WATER SYSTEM
DIVISION 1. - GENERALLY

Sec. 94-61. - City's responsibility and liability.
(a)
The city shall run a water service line from its distribution line to the property line where the distribution line exists or is to be constructed, and runs immediately adjacent and parallel to the property to be served. No service charge, other than the connection fee, will be made for a five-eighths-inch or three-fourths-inch meter. A proportionately greater charge than the connection fee will be made for a meter of larger dimensions.
(b)
The city may make connections to service other properties not adjacent to its lines upon payment of reasonable costs for the extension of its distribution lines as may be required to render such service.
(c)
The city may install its meter at or near the property line, or at the city's option at any location on the consumer's property upon the grant by the true owner of the property of a permanent easement to accommodate such service.
(d)
The city reserves the right to refuse service unless the consumer's lines or pipings are installed in such a manner as to prevent cross connections or backflow.
(Code 1988, § 11-3)
Sec. 94-62. - Consumer's responsibility and liability.
(a)
Water furnished by the city shall be used for consumption by the consumer, members of the consumer's household and employees only. The consumer shall not sell water to any other person or permit any other person to use such water. Water shall not be used for irrigation, fire protection, or other purposes, except when water is available in sufficient quantity without interfering with the regular domestic consumption in the area served. Disregard for this rule shall be sufficient cause for refusal and/or discontinuance of service.
(b)
Where the meter or meter box is placed on the premises of a consumer, a suitable place shall be provided by the consumer therefor, unobstructed and accessible at all times to the meter reader.
(c)
The consumer shall furnish and maintain a private water cutoff valve on the consumer's side of the meter.
(d)
The consumer's piping, wiring and apparatus shall be installed and maintained by the consumer at the consumer's expense, in a safe and efficient manner, and in accordance with the sanitary regulations of the state.
(e)
In order to be received as a consumer and entitled to receive water from the city's water system, all applicants must offer proof that any private wells located on their property are not physically connected to the lines of the city's water system. All applicants, by becoming consumers of the city, covenant and agree that so long as they continue to be consumers of the city they will not permit the connection of any private walls on their property to the city's water system.
(Code 1988, § 11-4)
Sec. 94-63. - Water service to customers outside city.
Water shall be furnished to property owners outside the city where determined feasible by the mayor and council.
(Code 1988, § 11-7)
Secs. 94-64—94-80. - Reserved.
DIVISION 2. - CROSS CONNECTIONS[2]

Footnotes:
--- (2) ---
State Law reference— Georgia Safe Drinking Water Act of 1977, O.C.G.A. § 12-5-170.

Sec. 94-81. - Definitions.
The following words, terms and phrases, when used in this division, shall have the meanings ascribed to them in this section, except where the context clearly indicates a different meaning:
Auxiliary intake means any piping connection or other device whereby water may be secured from a source other than that normally used.
Bypass means any system of piping or other arrangement whereby the water may be diverted around any part or portion of a water purification plant.
Cross connection means any physical arrangement whereby a public water supply is or may be connected directly or indirectly with a nonpotable water supply or unapproved water supply system, sewer, drain, conduit, pool, storage reservoir, plumbing fixture, or other device which contains or may contain contaminated water, liquid, gases, sewage, or other waste of unknown or unsafe quality, which may be capable of imparting contamination to the public water supply as the result of backflow, bypass arrangements, jumper connections, removable sections, swivel or change-over devices, and other temporary, permanent, or potential connections through which or because of which backflow or backsiphonage could or would occur.
Interconnection means any system of piping or other arrangement whereby the public water supply is connected directly with a sewer, drain, conduit, pool, storage reservoir, or other device which does or may contain sewage or other waste or liquid which would be capable of imparting contamination to the public water supply.
Person means any and all persons, natural or artificial, including any individual, firm or association, and any municipal or private corporation organized or existing under the laws of this or any other state or county.
Public water supply means the waterworks system furnishing water to the citizens of the city and the county for general use and which supply is recognized as the public water supply by the state department of natural resources, environmental protection division.
(Code 1988, § 11-80)
Cross reference— Definitions generally, § 1-2.
Sec. 94-82. - Compliance with state and federal law.
The city public water supply is to comply with chapter 391-3-5-.13 of the Georgia Rules for Safe Drinking Water and PL 93-523 of the Federal Safe Drinking Water Act, legally adopted in accordance with this division, which pertains to cross connections and establish an effective, ongoing program to control these undesirable water uses.
(Code 1988, § 11-81)
Sec. 94-83. - Violations; penalties.
It shall be unlawful for any person to cause a cross connection, auxiliary intake, bypass, or other interconnection to be made, or allow one to exist for any purpose whatsoever, and any person who neglects or refuses to comply with any of the provisions of this division shall be deemed guilty of a misdemeanor and punished by a fine in the municipal court as is provided for in section 1-7, and each day of continued violation after conviction shall constitute a separate offense. In addition to such fines, fees and penalties, the utilities general manager of the city shall be empowered to discontinue the public water supply service to any premises upon which there is found to be a cross connection, auxiliary intake, bypass, or interconnection or failure of annual testing, and service shall not be restored until such cross connection, auxiliary intake, bypass, or interconnection has been discontinued and payment of any fines, late fees and penalties.
(Code 1988, § 11-82)
Sec. 94-84. - Filing of statement of nonexistence of cross connections.
Any person whose premises are supplied with water from the public water supply, and who also has on the same premises a separate source of water supply or stores water in an uncovered or unsanitary storage reservoir from which the water stored therein is circulated through a piping system, shall file with the utilities general manager a statement of the nonexistence of unapproved or unauthorized cross connections. Such statement shall also contain an agreement that no cross connection, auxiliary intake, bypass, or interconnection will be permitted upon the premises.
(Code 1988, § 11-83)
Sec. 94-85. - Inspections.
(a)
It shall be the duty of the city public water supply to cause inspections to be made of all properties served by the public water supply where cross connections with the public water supply are deemed possible. The frequency of inspections and reinspections based on potential health hazards involved shall be as established by the utilities general manager.
(b)
The utilities general manager or authorized representative shall have the right to enter, at any reasonable time, any property served by a connection to the city public water supply for the purpose of inspecting the piping systems thereof for cross connections, auxiliary intakes, bypasses, or interconnection. On request, the owner, lessee, or occupant of any property so served shall furnish to the inspection agency any pertinent information regarding the piping systems on such property. The refusal of such information or refusal of access, when requested, shall be deemed evidence of the presence of cross connections.
(Code 1988, § 11-84)
Sec. 94-86. - Correction of existing conditions.
Any person who now has cross connections, auxiliary intakes, bypasses or interconnections in violation of the provisions of this division shall be allowed a reasonable time within which to comply with the provisions of this division. After a thorough investigation of existing conditions and an appraisal of the time required to complete the work, the amount of time to be in compliance shall be designated by the utilities general manager, subject to review and appeal to the mayor and council in accordance with the procedure outlined in section 18-33(e).
(Code 1988, § 11-85)
Sec. 94-87. - Conditions requiring protective devices; inspection and maintenance of protective devices.
(a)
Where the nature of use of the water supplied to premises by the water department is such that it is deemed that:
(1)
It is impractical to provide an effective air gap separation;
(2)
The owner and/or occupant of the premises cannot or is not willing to demonstrate to the official in charge of the system, or his designated representative, that the water use and protective features of the plumbing are such as to propose no threat to the safety or potability of the water supply;
(3)
The nature and mode of operation within the premises are such that frequent alterations are made to the plumbing; or
(4)
There is a likelihood that protective measures may be subverted, altered, or disconnected;
(5)
Any business, operation, industry or agricultural activity that may categorized as being a risk under the city cross connection control program, as amended;
the utilities general manager, or his designated representative, shall require the use of an approved protective device on the service line serving the premises to ensure that any contamination that may originate in the customer's premises is contained therein. The protective device shall be a reduced pressure zone type backflow preventer or other device approved by the utilities general manager or his authorized representative as to manufacturer, model, and size. The type of approved device shall be established by the degree of hazard for each specific location. The method of installation of the backflow protective devices shall be approved by the utilities general manager or his authorized representative prior to installation and shall comply with the criteria set forth by the utilities general manager. The installation shall be at the expense of the owner or occupant of the premises.
(b)
The department shall have the right to inspect and test the devices on an annual basis or whenever deemed necessary by the utilities general manager or his designated representative. The owner or occupant of the premises shall be responsible for annual testing and submittal of test data. Testing shall be conducted by an approved certified tester. Failure of a backflow prevention device shall be considered as noncompliance and immediate repairs are required. The utilities general manager or his designated representative shall require the occupant of the premises to make all repairs and all cost of repairs shall be borne by the owner or occupant of the premises. These repairs shall be made by qualified personnel acceptable to the utilities general manager.
(c)
Failure to comply with the requirements for annual testing within 30 days of notification shall result in a late fee charge as defined within the city rate resolution. The late fee charge shall be issued at the discretion of the utilities general manager.
(Code 1988, § 11-86)
Sec. 94-88. - Labeling of nonpotable water supply.
The potable water supply made available on the properties served by the public water supply shall be protected from possible contamination as specified in this division. Any water outlet which could be used for potable or domestic purposes and which is not supplied by the potable system must be labeled in a conspicuous manner as follows:
WATER UNSAFE FOR DRINKING
The minimum acceptable sign shall have black letters one inch high located on a red background.
(Code 1988, § 11-87)
Secs. 94-89—94-110. - Reserved.
DIVISION 3. - FIRE HYDRANTS[3]

Footnotes:
--- (3) ---
Cross reference— Fire hydrants, § 50-101 et seq.

Sec. 94-111. - Violations; penalties.
(a)
It shall be unlawful for any person to withdraw water from a fire hydrant located on the city water distribution system as maintained by the city water department without a permit as required by this division.
(b)
It shall be unlawful for any person to withdraw water from a fire hydrant located on the city water distribution system as maintained by the city water department without providing a city-approved backflow protection device on the withdrawal line or to open a fire hydrant with a wrench other than an AWWA approved wrench.
(c)
Any violation of this division which occurs within the city limits, upon conviction, shall be punished pursuant to the general penalties in section 1-7.
(d)
Each day any violation of this division shall continue shall constitute a separate offense. Any violation of this division which occurs beyond the city limits shall be prosecuted by a warrant obtained by the utilities general manager or his designee under the provisions of O.C.G.A. § 16-7-25.
(Ord. No. 707, § 5, 7-24-2000)
Sec. 94-112. - Permit for use of hydrant; water charges.
(a)
Permit required. No fire hydrant on the city water distribution system shall be used for the withdrawal of water for any purpose except fire emergencies unless a permit is first obtained from the city water department as provided in this division.
(b)
Application for permit. Any person wishing to purchase water through a fire hydrant or other appurtenances for construction, irrigation and other usage shall present to the city a photo I.D. and his address and telephone number together with the name, address, and telephone number of his employer, if any, or the name, address, and telephone number of the person for whom he is undertaking construction or other usage of the water to be withdrawn.
(c)
Charge for metered water sales. Metered water sales from fire hydrants shall be charged as set forth in the current rate resolution.
(d)
Reserved.
(e)
Payment of fee; possession of permit. The minimum fee shall be paid in advance before a permit is issued. The permit must be available for inspection at the withdrawal location during filling operations. The minimum fee shall be for one location only. A change of location shall require a new permit and the payment of the minimum fee before withdrawal shall be permitted.
(f)
Expiration of permit. After 30 days from the date of issuance, the withdrawal permit shall no longer be valid. Any renewal of a withdrawal permit shall be processed as a new permit.
(Ord. No. 707, §§ 1, 2, 7-24-2000)
Editor's note— Subsection (d) was removed at the request of the city.
Sec. 94-113. - Required equipment for use of hydrant.
(a)
Backflow preventer. All connections from the fire hydrant or other appurtenances to water wagons, tank trucks and on-site water mains shall have city water department approved backflow protection devices in place during all filling operations. All backflow protection devices shall be furnished by the permit holder.
(b)
Wrenches. Opening and closing of fire hydrants shall be made using only AWWA approved wrenches. It shall be a violation of this division to use a pipe wrench or nonapproved AWWA wrench to open any fire hydrant.
(Ord. No. 707, § 3, 7-24-2000)
Sec. 94-114. - Water withdrawn from hydrants not to be used for potable water.
All water removed from any fire hydrant or distribution main and stored in water wagons, tanker trucks, and on-site water mains shall not be used for potable water and shall be considered nonpotable water.
(Ord. No. 707, § 4(1), 7-24-2000)
Sec. 94-115. - Right of city to restrict availability of water.
This division shall vest no rights in any person to a withdrawal permit. The city reserves the right to discontinue or suspend the issuance of withdrawal permits in the discretion of the utilities general manager.
(Ord. No. 707, § 4(2), 7-24-2000)
Secs. 94-116—94-140. - Reserved.
