ARTICLE V. - ELECTRIC DISTRIBUTION SYSTEM

Sec. 94-271. - Standards for electrical apparatus.
All apparatus used in connection with electrical energy to be supplied shall be of standard make, purchased from some reputable manufacturer and having a power factor of 85 percent or better, and efficiency as high as is obtainable at the time of purchase, and satisfactory to the city. All apparatus of the customer shall be so constructed, operated and maintained by the customer as to preserve its physical condition, power factor and efficiency, and so that it will not affect the regulation or power factor of circuits of the city to such an extent as to interfere with the satisfactory operation of the apparatus of other power customers on the system. A customer shall operate all such customer's apparatus in such manner as to obtain an average power factor on such customer's total load of 85 percent of unity or better, and in case the apparatus cannot be so operated such customer shall install such power factor corrective apparatus as may be necessary to bring the average power factor on such customer's electric apparatus up to an average of 85 percent of unity or better.
(Code 1988, § 11-12)
Sec. 94-272. - Meters, wires and other appliances furnished by city.
(a)
Electrical energy to be supplied shall be measured by a watt-hour meter, to be owned and installed by the city at its expense in a suitable place or building upon the customer's premises. The customer shall, at its expense, provide a suitable place or building, in accordance with plans approved by the city, for the proper housing of meters and other electrical equipment furnished by the city.
(b)
All meters, wires and other appliances furnished by the city shall remain the property of the city, and the customer shall use reasonable diligence to protect the property of the city on its premises.
(c)
If the meters installed by the city fail to register the current properly during any period, the consumption of such current will be estimated by the city from readings for a like billing period.
(Code 1988, § 11-15)
Sec. 94-273. - Payment of costs of extension or enlargement of transmission lines.
When requests for service require extension or enlargement of the city's transmission lines and appliances, the governing body shall, in its discretion, require the consumer to pay for all extensions and enlargements, such charge to be refunded to the consumer by means of deductions from monthly bills over a period of time and in such amounts as the governing body shall direct, until the entire expense has been refunded to the consumer, at which time the extensions and enlargements shall become the property of the city.
(Code 1988, § 11-16)
Secs. 94-274—94-300. - Reserved.
