Chapter 50 - FIRE PROTECTION AND PREVENTION[1]
Footnotes:
--- (1) ---
Cross reference— Buildings and building regulations, ch. 18; fire district of city, § 18-3; civil emergencies, ch. 30.
State Law reference— Fire protection and safety, O.C.G.A. § 25-13-1 et seq.

ARTICLE I. - IN GENERAL

Sec. 50-1. - Permit fees for tank and site inspection.
Fire department permit fees for tank and site inspection shall be as prescribed by the governing body and in the schedule filed in the city clerk's office.
(Code 1988, § 9-2)
Sec. 50-2. - Fire calls outside city.
The city fire department shall answer calls outside the city per mutual aid agreements in place with public safety agencies outside of the city, and as agreed to by local and state public safety agencies outside of the city.
(Code 1988, § 9-4)
Sec. 50-3. - Burning litter or debris on street or sidewalk or in congested place prohibited.
It shall be unlawful for any person to burn paper, excelsior or any burnable material of any nature on any street, lane, alley, or sidewalk or any congested place where it will damage the streets, lanes, alleys or sidewalks or endanger property in the city.
(Code 1988, § 9-5)
Cross reference— Solid waste, ch. 78; streets, sidewalks and other public places, ch. 82.
Sec. 50-4. - Fireworks.
No person shall sell or keep for sale firecrackers, skyrockets, or other fireworks or pyrotechnics or combustible material, nor shall any person shoot or explode the same either on the streets or on private premises in the city. Approved mercantile locations may sell sparklers as defined in O.C.G.A. Title 25 and may be used per code.
(Code 1988, § 9-6)
State Law reference— Fireworks defined, O.C.G.A. § 25-10-1; sale regulated, O.C.G.A. § 25-10-2; permitted uses, O.C.G.A. § 25-10-3.
Sec. 50-5. - Height of flue or chimney for steam boilers.
It shall be unlawful for any person to operate and use, within the city, any steam boiler of any kind or character, unless the boiler is attached to a flue or chimney extending at least three feet above the roof of the building wherein the boiler is situated or located. Should the boiler be located within 100 feet of a building of greater height than that in which the boiler is located, then the flue, chimney or smokestack to which boiler is attached shall be as high as the roof of the higher building.
(Code 1988, § 9-7)
Sec. 50-6. - Approval of storage facilities for flammable/combustible liquids.
No storage facilities for flammable/combustible liquids shall be installed within the city without the approval of the fire marshal, and such storage shall be allowed only after the fire marshal (state or local, as required) has made a thorough inspection or investigation of the location and storage requirements.
(Code 1988, § 9-8)
Cross reference— Environment, ch. 46.
Sec. 50-7. - Unloading of vehicles hauling bulk quantities of flammable/combustible liquids.
No vehicle hauling bulk quantities of flammable/combustible liquids of any kind shall be allowed to unload at any location not approved by local and state fire marshals.
(Code 1988, § 9-9)
Cross reference— Environment, ch. 46.
Sec. 50-8. - Records of sales of dynamite.
It shall be unlawful for any merchant, dealer or other person to sell or furnish dynamite to any person without keeping a record of the name of the purchaser, the amount sold and the date sold. Such record shall be open to inspection by the mayor and councilmembers or its authority whenever it may seem wise to do so.
(Code 1988, § 9-10)
Secs. 50-9—50-30. - Reserved.
ARTICLE II. - FIRE DEPARTMENT[2]

Footnotes:
--- (2) ---
Cross reference— Departments, § 2-91 et seq.
State Law reference— Powers and duties of fire department, O.C.G.A. §§ 25-3-1 et seq., 25-4-1 et seq.

Sec. 50-31. - Established.
There is hereby created and established a fire department, consisting of a chief, who shall be ex officio superintendent of fire, and such other members of the fire department as may from time to time be provided for by the mayor and council.
(Code 1988, § 9-60)
Sec. 50-32. - Appointments and promotions.
The fire chief shall be appointed by the mayor and council following a recommendation by the city administrator. All other appointments to or promotions within the fire department shall be made by the fire chief upon approval by the city administrator.
(Code 1988, § 9-61)
Sec. 50-33. - Supervision; repair of equipment.
The fire chief shall have the control, subject to the order and direction of the mayor and council, of the fire department and all fire apparatus belonging to the city. Whenever any fire apparatus needs repairing, the fire chief shall cause such repair to be done without delay.
(Code 1988, § 9-62)
Sec. 50-34. - Command at emergency scenes.
In case of fire and other emergencies, the fire chief and his assistants shall rank in the order named, and the officer of the highest rank at the scene, or the officer designated by the ranking officer, shall take command of the fire department and scene as appropriate per the provisions of the National Incident Management System, and the direct management of the fire department and scene thereof for the mitigation of the emergency in the most appropriate manner possible. When it may be necessary for the protection of lives and other property and to prevent the spread of conflagration, the officer in command may cause structures or objects to be removed, torn down or destroyed in the most appropriate manner possible.
(Code 1988, § 9-63)
Sec. 50-35. - Duty to prevent and extinguish fires.
In addition to all other duties, responsibilities and functions required of the fire department and its members by this chapter, it shall be the function and duty of the fire department and every member thereof to extinguish accidental or destructive fires and to prevent the occurrence or spread of such fires.
(Code 1988, § 9-64)
Secs. 50-36—50-60. - Reserved.
ARTICLE III. - FIRE PREVENTION CODE[3]

Footnotes:
--- (3) ---
Cross reference— Buildings and building regulations, ch. 18.
State Law reference— Fire prevention code, O.C.G.A. § 8-2-25.

Sec. 50-61. - State minimum standards adopted.
The state minimum fire safety standards adopted in the rules and regulations promulgated pursuant to O.C.G.A. Title 25, Ch. 2 (O.C.G.A. § 25-2-1 et seq.), including all subsequent revisions thereof, are adopted by reference. All National Fire Protection Association (NFPA) codes, including specifically NFPA 101 (Life Safety Code), International Fire Codes, in addition to all model codes adopted by the state, are adopted by reference. This action does not preclude the city from adopting more restrictive local codes and regulations.
State Law reference— Required provisions, O.C.G.A. § 25-2-12.
Sec. 50-62. - Fees.
The fee schedule concerning permits, certificates, approval and other functions performed under the fire code which are in existence as of the effective date of the ordinance from which this article is derived are incorporated by reference in this article. Such fees shall be payable to the city and accompany any application for such permit, approval, certificate or other fee-related code provision. Further, the governing body may amend, revise, or modify such fees from time to time as the situation warrants, and these amendments, revisions or modifications are likewise incorporated in this article. The fee schedule should be published and maintained in accordance with the same procedure as all other fee schedules of the city.
(Code 1988, § 9-35)
Sec. 50-63. - Violations.
It shall be unlawful for any person to violate this article, to permit or maintain such a violation, to refuse to obey any provision thereof, or to fail or refuse to comply with any such provision or regulation, except as variation may be allowed by the action of the fire chief or fire marshal as the case may be, in writing. Proof of such unlawful act or failure shall be deemed prima facie evidence that such act is that of the owner or other person in control of the premises. Prosecution or lack thereof of either the owner, occupant, or person in charge shall not be deemed to relieve any of the others.
(Code 1988, § 9-36)
Sec. 50-64. - Enforcement generally; fire marshal; designation of deputy fire marshals.
(a)
The fire chief of the city fire department shall be responsible for the enforcement of the fire prevention code of the city. The fire chief may detail qualified members of the fire department as inspectors to enforce fire codes and ordinances. Until it is deemed necessary by the mayor and council, the fire chief shall be designated as the fire marshal for the city. Until such division of duties by the mayor and council, either term as used in this article shall be interchangeable with the other.
(b)
The fire chief shall designate fire officials of the fire department as deputy fire marshals.
(Code 1988, § 9-37)
Cross reference— Officers and employees, § 2-61 et seq.
Sec. 50-65. - Powers and duties of enforcement officers.
(a)
It shall be the duty of the officers of the city fire department to enforce all laws and ordinances of city covering the following:
(1)
The prevention of fires.
(2)
The storage, sale and use of combustible, flammable or explosive materials.
(3)
The installation and maintenance of automatic and other fire alarm systems, and fire extinguishing equipment.
(4)
The maintenance and regulation of fire escapes.
(5)
The means and adequacy of exit in case of fire from factories, schools, hotels, lodginghouses, asylums, hospitals, churches, halls, theaters, amphitheaters, and all other places in which numbers of persons work, live, or congregate from time to time, for any purpose.
(6)
The investigation of the cause, origin, and circumstances of fires.
(7)
The maintenance of fire cause and loss records.
(b)
They shall have such other powers and perform such other duties as are set forth in other sections of this article, and as may be conferred and imposed from time to time by law.
(Code 1988, § 9-38)
Cross reference— Officers and employees, § 2-61 et seq.
Sec. 50-66. - Instructions and forms for fire marshals.
The fire chief of the fire department shall prepare instructions for the fire marshal and the fire marshal deputies, and forms for their use in the reports required by this article.
(Code 1988, § 9-39)
Sec. 50-67. - Investigation of fires.
The fire department shall investigate the origin, cause, and circumstances of every fire occurring in the city by which property has been destroyed or damaged, and, so far as possible, shall determine whether the fire is the result of carelessness or design. Such investigation shall begin immediately upon the occurrence of such a fire. The fire marshal shall take charge immediately of the physical evidence, shall notify the proper authorities designated by law to pursue the investigation of such matters, and shall further cooperate with the authorities in the collection of evidence and in the prosecution of the case.
(Code 1988, § 9-40)
Sec. 50-68. - Inspection prior to issuance of permit.
Before permits may be issued as required by the code adopted by this article, the fire marshal or the fire marshal deputies shall inspect and approve the receptacle, processes, vehicles, buildings, or storage places to be used for any such purposes.
(Code 1988, § 9-41)
Sec. 50-69. - Periodic inspections.
The fire marshal shall inspect or cause to be inspected all structures during initial construction except single-family dwellings, and reinspect on a periodic basis all structures that require a business license, not to include private single-family or multifamily dwellings, and shall make such orders as may be necessary for the enforcement of the laws and ordinances governing such premises for safeguarding of life and property from fire and other life safety issues.
(Code 1988, § 9-42)
Sec. 50-70. - Order to remedy dangerous conditions.
(a)
Generally. Whenever an inspector, as defined in this article, shall find in any building, or upon any premises or other places, combustible or explosive matter or dangerous accumulations of rubbish or unnecessary accumulation of wastepaper, boxes, shavings, or any highly flammable materials, especially liable to fire, and which is so situated as to endanger property, or shall find obstructions to or on fire escapes, stairs, passageways, doors, or windows, liable to interfere with the operations of the fire department or egress of occupants in case of fire, the inspector shall order the same to be removed or remedied, and such order shall forthwith be complied with by the owner or occupant of such premises or buildings, subject to the appeals procedure provided for by the fire prevention code of the city.
(b)
Noncompliance. Any owner or occupant failing to comply with such order within a reasonable period after the service of the order shall be liable to penalties as provided in this article.
(c)
Service. The service of any such order may be made upon the occupant of the premises to whom it is directed, either by delivering a copy of order to such occupant personally, or leaving it with any person in charge of the premises, or, in case no such person is found upon the premises, by affixing a copy thereof in a conspicuous place on the door to the entrance of the premises. Whenever it may be necessary to serve such an order upon the owner of premises, such order may be served either by delivering to and leaving with the person a copy of the order, or, if such owner is absent from the jurisdiction of the officer making the order, by mailing such copy by certified mail to the owner's last known post office address.
(Code 1988, § 9-43)
Sec. 50-71. - Record of fires.
The fire marshal shall compile and keep a record of all fires and of all the facts concerning the fires, including injuries, deaths, rescue of persons, and statistics as to the extent of such fires and the damage caused thereby, and whether such losses were covered by insurance, and, if so, in what amount. All such records shall be public.
(Code 1988, § 9-44)
Sec. 50-72. - Monthly reports by fire marshal.
The fire marshal shall make monthly reports of the activities of the fire department and shall transmit these reports to the city administrator and to the councilmember then in charge of reporting for the department. The reports shall contain such statistics as the fire chief may wish to include therein.
(Code 1988, § 9-45)
Sec. 50-73. - Recommendations for amendments to code.
The fire chief of the city fire department or the fire marshal shall recommend any amendments to the fire prevention code of the city or this article which shall be desirable.
(Code 1988, § 9-46)
Sec. 50-74. - Interpretation.
This article shall be deemed an exercise of the police powers of the city for the preservation and protection of the public health, peace, safety, and welfare, and all the provisions of the fire prevention code of the city shall be liberally construed for that purpose.
(Code 1988, § 9-48)
Sec. 50-75. - Penalties.
Any person who shall violate any of the provisions of the code adopted by this article; or shall fail to comply therewith; or shall violate or fail to comply with any order made thereunder; or shall build in violation of any details, statements, specifications, or plans submitted or approved thereunder; or shall operate not in accordance with the provisions of any certificate, permit, or approval issued thereunder, and from which no appeal has been taken; or who shall fail to comply with such an order as affirmed or modified by the fire marshal or by a court of competent jurisdiction within the time fixed in this article shall severally for each and every violation and noncompliance, respectively, be guilty of a misdemeanor. If convicted, the offender shall be punished in accordance with section 1-7. The imposition of a penalty for any violation shall not excuse the violation, nor shall the violation be permitted to continue. All such persons shall be required to correct or remedy such violations or defects within a reasonable time, and, when not otherwise specified, the application of the penalty set forth in this section shall not be held to prevent the enforced removal of prohibited conditions.
(Code 1988, § 9-49)
Sec. 50-76. - Fines.
The list of fines as shown on the schedule identified as "City of Calhoun, Municipal Court Fines, Standard Fire Prevention Code, 2000 or Current Edition" is hereby adopted as the uniform fines to be assessed against all violators of any city ordinance pertaining to fire prevention or fire protection tried in the municipal court.
(Ord. No. 751, § I, 3-24-2003)
Editor's note— The schedule referred to in this section is on file in the city offices.
Sec. 50-77. - Board of appeals.
A board of appeals is hereby established. The board of appeals shall be the mayor and council. This body may appoint independent technical advisors as the need arises in resolution of any matter that comes before it.
(Code 1988, § 9-50)
Cross reference— Boards and commissions, § 2-331 et seq.
Sec. 50-78. - Rapid entry key system requirements for commercial, residential and other locations with restricted access through locked gates.
(a)
The following shall be equipped with a Knox Box at or near the main entrance gate or such other location required by the fire marshal:
(1)
Commercial or industrial properties that are secured in a manner that restricts access during an emergency; and
(2)
All residential single family and multifamily structures that have restricted access through locked gates.
(b)
All newly constructed structures, communities, or complexes subject to this section shall have the Knox Box installed and operational prior to the issuance of an occupancy permit. All structures, communities, or complexes in existence on the effective date of the ordinance from which this section is derived and subject to this section shall have one year from the effective dated of the ordinance from which this section is derived to have a Knox Box installed and operational.
(c)
The Knox Box shall be installed no higher than six feet from the ground, sidewalk or paved surface near the primary or main entrance and directly adjacent to the wall.
(d)
The owner or operator of a structure, community, or complex required to have a Knox Box shall, at all times, keep a key in the lock box, or maintain the operation of the box at all times.
(e)
The fire marshal shall be authorized to implement rules and regulations for the use of the lock box system. Additionally, the fire marshal, or his designated officer, shall have final approval on the location of said lock box prior to the issuance of an occupancy permit.
(f)
Any person who owns or operates a structure, community, or complex subject to this section shall be subject to the penalties set forth in all sections of this Code for any violation of this section; provided that the maximum fine for a conviction for a violation of this section shall be $1,000.00.
(g)
All requests for the designated Knox Box system shall be coordinated through the fire marshal and get approval for the location of the box on each site.
(h)
This article shall take effect immediately upon its passage and shall be applied to all constructions which are completed after June 30, 2013, seeking the issuance of an occupancy permit.
(Ord. No. 920, § 1, 5-13-2013)
Sec. 50-79. - Rapid entry key system requirements for commercial or industrial buildings.
(a)
All commercial or industrial structures that are secured in a manner that restricts access shall be equipped with a Knox Box at or near the main entrance or such other location designated by the fire marshal.
(b)
All newly constructed structures subject to this section shall have the Knox Box installed and operational prior to the issuance of an occupancy permit.
(c)
The Knox Box shall be installed no higher than six feet from the ground, sidewalk or paved surface near the primary or main entrance and directly adjacent to the wall.
(d)
The owner or operator of a structure required to have a Knox Box shall, at all times, keep a key in the lock box that will allow for access to the structure.
(e)
The fire marshal shall be authorized to implement rules and regulations for the use of the lock box system. Additionally, the fire marshal, or his designated officer, shall have final approval on the location of said lock box prior to the issuance of an occupancy permit.
(f)
Any person who owns or operates a structure subject to this section shall be subject to the penalties set forth in all sections of this Code for any violation of this section; provided that the maximum fine for a conviction for a violation of this section shall be $1,000.00.
(g)
All requests for the designated Knox Box system shall be coordinated through the fire marshal and get approval for the location of the box on each site.
(h)
This article shall take effect immediately upon its passage and shall be applied to all constructions which are completed after June 30, 2013, seeking the issuance of an occupancy permit.
(Ord. No. 920, § 2, 5-13-2013)
Sec. 50-80. - Specific requirements for all permitted use and/or construction of loft apartments or residences.
A loft apartment or residence, as defined by appendix A - zoning, article III - definitions, section 3.2. - list of definitions, subsection 35, shall be required to adhere strictly to the following:
(1)
Be equipped with a National Fire Protection Association (NFPA) Standard 13 sprinkler system, and all other floors of the same building, including the basement, shall be equipped with a fire suppression sprinkler system complying with the National Fire Protection Association (NFPA) Standard 13;
(2)
Have no doorway or window interconnection between loft/urban dwellings;
(3)
Have an exterior window or door in all sleeping rooms; except where buildings have two means of egress from the building that are a minimum, two-hour rated and, lead directly outside the building.
(4)
Have hard wired single-station smoke alarms in all sleeping rooms;
(5)
Have smoke alarms installed outside all sleeping rooms and interconnected;
(6)
Have an audio/visual warning device interconnected to the sprinkler system water-flow device in each corridor, with pull station at each exterior exit that will activate the warning device in corridor to swelling units and the warning device in the area used as business;
(7)
Have emergency lighting and smoke detection in place in all corridors, smoke alarms shall be connected to audio/visual device;
(8)
Have a fire extinguisher in swelling-unit food-prep areas;
(9)
Have no commercial cooking equipment installed in loft/urban dwelling without meeting the requirements of National Fire Protection Association (NFPA) Standard 96;
(10)
Have a residential range tope hood system installed with all range surfaces vented directly outside with approved metal piping from range top suppression system and maintained according to manufacturer's recommendation;
(11)
The building containing the loft/urban dwelling shall be equipped with smoke-detection devised (devices) in the business areas which shall activate local alarm and audio/visual device in corridors of swelling units.
( Ord. No. 957 , § 2, 4-10-2017)
Secs. 50-81—50-100. - Reserved.
ARTICLE IV. - FIRE HYDRANTS[4]

Footnotes:
--- (4) ---
Cross reference— Assemblies prohibited near fire hydrants, § 62-4; fire hydrants, § 94-111 et seq.

Sec. 50-101. - Required; approval of plans.
(a)
After January 21, 2002, any person who constructs or contracts to construct to own, lease or sell any building for industrial or commercial usage, hospital, nursing or medical care home or facility, school or educational building, apartment, condominium, multifamily dwelling or single-family subdivision development consisting of three or more dwellings shall provide for the installation of fire hydrants and water mains thereto on the property being developed in conformity with this article and all other applicable laws, regulations, ordinances, policies and codes.
(b)
Any person subject to subsection (a) of this section shall submit a stamped, engineered development plan showing the location of fire hydrants and water mains thereto to the fire inspector or fire chief for purposes of approval prior to undertaking any construction. A duplicate of this plan shall be submitted to the building inspection department. This plan shall be sufficiently detailed to show the location of all fire hydrants and water mains thereto, the size and specifications of fire hydrants and water mains thereto, and materials to be used, including but not limited to pipes, valves, and fittings. For purposes of all approvals under this section, the city's water and sewer line installation policy shall be considered as the authority for the city. Proposed locations of all fire hydrants and/or water lines being installed are subject to approval of the appropriate authority.
(Ord. No. 736, § 1(a), 2-11-2002)
Sec. 50-102. - Size of water mains.
(a)
Nothing less than a six-inch water main shall be installed in any area for the purpose of fire protection.
(b)
The fire department, building inspection department or water department may require a larger water main than those specified when, in its judgment, conditions warrant.
(Ord. No. 736, § 1(b), 2-11-2002)
Sec. 50-103. - Installation required prior to commencement of construction.
No person subject to this article shall begin construction of any structure until water mains and fire hydrants and an acceptable means of access thereto, as defined in the 2000 International Fire Code and subsequent amendments thereto, shall have been installed and approved by the appropriate officials.
(Ord. No. 736, § 1(c), 2-11-2002)
Sec. 50-104. - Spacing for commercial and industrial uses.
In buildings and structures for industrial and commercial usage, fire hydrants shall be spaced within a distance not exceeding 600 feet from another hydrant. For purposes of this section, industrial or commercial usage shall include but not be limited to motel or hotel use, hospitals, nursing or medical care facilities, office space, schools and educational buildings. No part of any structure shall be more than 300 feet from a fire hydrant. This distance shall be measured by traveling on a recognized roadway or driveway surface meeting the fire department access requirements.
(Ord. No. 736, § 1(d), 2-11-2002)
Sec. 50-105. - Spacing for single-family developments.
In areas of single-family residential development, fire hydrants shall be spaced within a distance not exceeding 1,000 feet from another hydrant. No part of any structure shall be more than 500 feet from a fire hydrant. This distance shall be measured by traveling on a recognized roadway or driveway surface meeting the fire department access requirements.
(Ord. No. 736, § 1(e), 2-11-2002)
Sec. 50-106. - Location of primary and intermediate hydrants.
Persons subject to this article shall install fire primary hydrants as close to a street intersection as possible, placing intermediate fire hydrants along a street or public right-of-way and on the same side of the right-of-way as buildings to be protected (excluding single-family subdivision developments), or as required by the fire marshal, fire department or other authorized officials.
(Ord. No. 736, § 1(f), 2-11-2002)
Sec. 50-107. - Valves and fire service connections.
(a)
All fire hydrant valves and fire service connections shall be subject to the approval and standards of the city's water and sewer line installation policy.
(b)
Fire service connections shall not be less than 18 inches or more than 36 inches above the level of the adjoining ground or pavement. Threads of such connections shall be National Standard threads and shall be uniform with those used by the fire department.
(c)
All fire hydrants shall have two 2½-inch hose outlets and one 4½-inch pumper outlet.
(Ord. No. 736, § 1(g), 2-11-2002)
Sec. 50-108. - Easement for access by city.
Any fire hydrant installed pursuant to the provisions of this article, wherever installed, shall be considered an extension of the public fire protection system of the city and the city shall have a perpetual easement for purposes of access and use thereof.
(Ord. No. 736, § 1(h), 2-11-2002)
Sec. 50-109. - Responsibility for maintenance.
All fire hydrants installed pursuant to this article shall be serviced and maintained by the city on public rights-of-way and by the owner or occupant on private property.
(Ord. No. 736, § 1(i), 2-11-2002)
Secs. 50-110—50-130. - Reserved.
ARTICLE V. - OPEN BURNING

Sec. 50-131. - Permit required; restrictions on burning.
(a)
Fires on public property; burning of construction of demolition waste. No person shall kindle or maintain any bonfire or rubbish fire or authorize any such fire to be kindled or maintained on or in any public street, alley, road or other public ground without a permit issued under the signature of the chief of the fire department. During construction or demolition of buildings or structures, no waste materials or rubbish shall be disposed of by burning on the premises or in the immediate vicinity without having obtained a permit issued under the signature of the chief of the fire department. In the burning of construction or demolition materials, a forced air pit incinerator, generally referred to as an air curtain destructor, may be used, provided the burn is conducted in accordance with the then-existing air curtain destructor operating guide procedures prepared by the North Georgia Region Environmental Protection Division or any successor state or regional agency.
(b)
Fires on private property; general burning restrictions. No person shall kindle or maintain any open fire or authorize any such fire to be kindled or maintained on any private land without having first obtained a permit issued under the signature of the chief of the fire department, nor shall any fire be kindled or maintained in any outdoor container, except for cooking food for immediate human consumption, unless such container has been approved by and a permit issued under the signature of the chief of the fire department. The burning of garbage or refuse that smolders or gives off noxious odors is prohibited.
(Ord. No. 682, §§ 1, 2, 11-8-1999)
Sec. 50-132. - Issuance of permit.
The chief of the city fire department may designate one or more individuals in the city fire department who may issue permits provided for in this article by attesting to such permit on a line provided thereon under the name of the chief of the fire department.
(Ord. No. 682, § 4, 11-8-1999)
Sec. 50-133. - Authority to prohibit fires during hazardous conditions.
The chief of the city fire department may prohibit any and all bonfires and outdoor rubbish fires when atmospheric conditions or local circumstances make such fires hazardous. In making such a determination, the chief of the fire department shall use the criteria contained in the rules of the state department of natural resources, environmental protection division, air protection division, as contained in chapter 391-3-1, as amended, and the fire weather forecast for district 1, as published by the state forestry commission.
(Ord. No. 682, § 3, 11-8-1999)
Cross reference— Environmental, ch. 46.
