Chapter 30 - CIVIL EMERGENCIES[1]

Footnotes:
--- (1) ---
Cross reference— Administration, ch. 2; courts, ch. 38; fire protection and prevention, ch. 50.
State Law reference— Georgia Emergency Management Act of 1981, O.C.G.A. § 38-3-1 et seq.

Sec. 30-1. - Definitions.
The following words, terms and phrases, when used in this chapter, shall have the meanings ascribed to them in this section, except where the context clearly indicates a different meaning:
Emergency management means the preparation for the carrying out of all emergency functions, other than functions for which military forces are primarily responsible to prevent, minimize, and repair injury and damage resulting from emergencies, energy emergencies, disasters, or the imminent threat thereof, of manmade or natural origin, caused by enemy attack, sabotage, acts of domestic or international terrorism, civil disturbance, fire, flood, earthquake, wind, storm, wave action, oil spill or other water contamination requiring emergency action to avert danger or damage, epidemic, air contamination, blight, drought, infestation, explosion, riot or other hostile action, radiological action, or other causes. These functions include, without limitation, firefighting services; police services; emergency medical services; rescue; engineering; warning services; communication; defense from radiological, chemical, biological, and other special weapons to include weapons of mass destruction; evacuation of persons from stricken areas; emergency welfare services; consequence management functions to include victim services; emergency transportation; plant protection; temporary restoration of public utility services; and other functions related to civilian protection, together with all other activities necessary or incidental or the preparation for and carrying out of such functions.
(Code 1988, § 7-1)
Cross reference— Definitions generally, § 1-2.
State Law reference— Definitions, O.C.G.A. § 38-3-3.
Sec. 30-2. - Emergency management agency established; emergency management director/coordinator.
In agreement with the governing officials, there is hereby established the Calhoun/Gordon County Emergency Management Agency. The mayor of the city, with concurrence of other city officials, shall nominate, for appointment by the governor, a director/coordinator of emergency management for the city. When appointed, the emergency management director/coordinator is charged with the following duties:
(1)
Represent the governing officials of the city on matters pertaining to emergency management.
(2)
Assist city officials in organizing city departments for emergency operations.
(3)
Develop, in conjunction with city departments and agencies, the city plan for emergency functions as set forth in the definition of "emergency management" in section 30-1. Such plan will be consonant with the state natural disaster operations plan and nuclear emergency operations plan, and shall be submitted to the governing officials of the city, and thence to the state emergency management agency for approval.
(4)
Maintain the emergency management office and carry out the day-to-day administration of the city emergency management program, including the submission of required reports to the state emergency management agency.
(5)
Submit reports as required by governing officials in keeping with good management practices, e.g., financial, daily activity, etc.
(6)
Procure, with the authority of governing officials, a facility to be used as the city emergency operations center.
(7)
Coordinate the activities of the city emergency operations center staff during periods of a declared emergency, under the supervision of city governing officials.
(Code 1988, § 7-2)
Cross reference— Officers and employees, § 2-61 et seq.
State Law reference— Local emergency management organization, O.C.G.A. § 38-3-27.
Sec. 30-3. - Emergency management organization.
The city emergency management organization shall be established around existing city departments and agencies, and the emergency functions listed in the definition of "emergency management" in section 30-1 are assigned as follows:
EXPAND
Department Emergency Functions
(1) Executive (city elected officials) Direction and control
Public information
Supply, finances
(2) Police (city police department) Security, movement, search, communications, warning
(3) Fire control (city fire department) Fire control
Damage assessment
Search and rescue,
Assistance in all emergency management functions
(4) Public works and engineering Utilities and public service
Restoration, hazards analysis
(5) Human resources, including: Human needs, including:
Division of family and children services Welfare
Division of physical health Health control
Hospital services Medical and mortuary services
Ambulance services Casualty transport
(6) Emergency management Shelter
Radiological defense
Rescue
Assistance in industrial and institutional emergency
Planning, evacuation planning, emergency transportation
  Heads of departments listed in this section are responsible for developing the plan for their assigned emergency function. Such plans will be submitted through the emergency management director/coordinator to the mayor and governing officials of the city for approval.
(Code 1988, § 7-3)
State Law reference— Municipal authority, O.C.G.A. § 38-3-27.
Sec. 30-4. - Emergency powers.
In the event of manmade or natural disaster, actual enemy attack upon the United States, or any other emergency which may affect the lives and property of the citizens of the city, the mayor of the city and the governing officials of the city may declare that a state of emergency exists and thereafter shall have and may exercise, for such period as such state of emergency exists or continues, the following emergency powers:
(1)
Enforce all rules, laws and regulations relating to emergency management, and assume direct operational control over all emergency management resources.
(2)
Seize, take for temporary use, or condemn any private property for the protection of the public.
(3)
Sell, lend, give, or distribute all or any such property or supplies among the inhabitants of the city, and maintain a strict accounting of property or supplies distributed and of funds received for such property or supplies.
(4)
Perform and exercise such other functions and duties and take such emergency actions as may be necessary to promote and secure the safety, protection and well-being of the inhabitants of the city.
(Code 1988, § 7-4)
Sec. 30-5. - Volunteers.
All persons, other than officers and employees of the city, performing emergency functions pursuant to this chapter shall serve with or without compensation. While engaged in such emergency functions, duly assigned volunteers shall have the same immunities as city officers and employees.
(Code 1988, § 7-5)
Sec. 30-6. - Violation of rules, orders or regulations.
Any person violating any rule, order, or regulation made pursuant to this chapter shall, upon conviction thereof, be punishable as for a misdemeanor.
(Code 1988, § 7-6)
