Title 12 - STREETS, SIDEWALKS AND PUBLIC PLACES
Chapters:
Chapter 12.04 - STREETS AND SIDEWALKS GENERALLY
Sections:

12.04.010 - Sidewalk construction—Permit required.
No sidewalk of any description shall be built by any individual, firm or corporation, of any brick, wood or other material without a written permit from the city.
(Prior code § 4-1-6)
12.04.020 - Streets and sidewalks not to be damaged.
It shall be unlawful for any person, firm or corporation to drag or run, or cause to be dragged or run, any harrow or other implement, engine, machine or tool upon any asphalt, bithulitic, warrenite or other type of permanently paved street or sidewalk of the city which shall be liable in any way to injure or cut the surface thereof. It shall also be unlawful to injure any dirt street in the same manner.
(Prior code § 4-1-7)
12.04.025 - Streets and sidewalks—Prohibited uses.
A.
Use of public streets, alleyways, sidewalks, and roads of the city which blocks or impedes vehicular, bicycle, and/or pedestrian movement within the public right-of-way for extended periods of time shall not be permitted; unless permission has been granted by the mayor and city council as part of a special events permit.
B.
The placement of an object which blocks or impedes vehicular, bicycle, and/or pedestrian movement within the public right-of-way for extended periods of time in any portion of a public street, alleyway, sidewalk or road of the city shall be prohibited unless the mayor and city council specifically approve the use of such object as part of a special events permit.
C.
For use in this section, the phrase "block or impede" means to occupy the public right-of-way used for vehicular, bicycle, and/or pedestrian movement in such a manner as to endanger the safety of the traveling public or result in damage to personal or real property of another person or entity.
D.
For use in this section, the phrase "extended periods of time" means more than thirty consecutive minutes where not part of an official action of government or utility or emergency operation.
E.
For use in this section, the term "object" under this section includes but is not limited to recreational equipment such as basketball goals, skateboard or bicycle ramps, soccer and hockey goals, and the like.
F.
For use in this section, the term "special events permit" means an event or activity approval by the mayor and city council such as a street party, parade, cultural or arts festival, a sporting event, street fair or similar activity. Applications for special events permits shall be filed with the city clerk at least forty-five days prior to the date of the event, unless waived by the mayor and city council at an intervening meeting date.
G.
Notwithstanding this section or the grant of a special events permit, the mayor and council may identify and prohibit entirely any and all uses which block or impede vehicular, bicycle, and/or pedestrian movement within certain designated public rights-of-way (or portions thereof) of the city for any period of time.
(Ord. No. 09-05-022, § 1, 5-4-09; Ord. No. 09-10-058, § 1, 10-5-09)
12.04.030 - Violation—Penalty.
All persons found guilty of a violation of this chapter shall be punished as provided in Chapter 1.08 of this code.
(Prior code § 4-1-8)
Chapter 12.08 - EXCAVATIONS
Sections:

12.08.010 - Permit required—Exception.
No person, firm or corporation shall make any excavations or openings or dig any ditch, trench, tunnel or hole in, along, across or under any street, sidewalk or other public place for the purpose of laying or placing therein any pipe, wires, poles or for any other purposes, unless a written permit therefor has been issued by the city clerk. A permit shall not be required where the work is performed under a contract with the city, but in the event that work requires a sidewalk or street to be wholly or partially obstructed, the person shall notify the city clerk and the police department at least two hours before obstructing the sidewalk or street, unless prevented by sudden emergency.
(Prior code § 4-1-1)
12.08.020 - Application for permit.
All persons desiring a permit in order to make an opening in any street or sidewalk, as set forth in Section 12.08.010, shall make written application therefor, which application shall show the location of the proposed opening, the purpose therefor and the approximate number of square yards of surface to be cut.
(Prior code § 4-1-2)
12.08.030 - City indemnified.
Any person, firm or corporation obtaining a permit as provided for in Sections 12.08.010 and 12.08.020 agrees, as a condition of the issuance of the permit, to indemnify and hold harmless the city against any claims or expenses, including attorney's fees for bodily injury or property damage for accidents or occurrences arising out of the person's operations.
(Prior code § 4-1-3)
12.08.040 - Street repair.
When any part of any street, sidewalk, alley or other public place of the city shall be torn or dug up for any purpose, the person, firm or corporation making that excavation or opening shall have the duty of refilling the excavation or opening so as to restore it to essentially the same condition that existed prior to the excavation or opening. Any person, firm or corporation neglecting, refusing or failing to comply with any provisions of this section shall be guilty of a violation thereof; and where any neglect, refusal or failure is continued, after notice from the city clerk, every day's continuance thereafter shall constitute a separate and distinct offense.
(Prior code § 4-1-4)
12.08.050 - Leaving unprotected.
It shall be unlawful for any person, firm or corporation who obtains a permit under the sections of this chapter to do any excavation of any kind which may create or cause a dangerous condition in or near any street, alley, sidewalk or public place of the city without placing and maintaining proper guard rails and signal lights or other warnings at, in or around the work, sufficient to warn the public of any excavation or work, and to protect all persons using reasonable care from injuries on account of work.
(Prior code § 4-1-5)
12.08.060 - Violation—Penalty.
All persons found guilty of a violation of this chapter shall be punished as provided in Chapter 1.08 of this code.
(Prior code § 4-1-8)
Chapter 12.12 - STREET TREES
Sections:

12.12.010 - Intent.
The intent of this chapter is to establish protective regulations for trees in the public areas of the city in order to better control problems with flooding, soil conservation, air pollution and noise in the city, and to regulate trees on private property, where necessary, to make the city a healthier and safer place in which to live.
(Ord. 10/8/90 § 1)
12.12.020 - Creation and establishment of a city tree board.
There is created and established a city tree board for the city which shall consist of five members, being citizens and residents of this city, who shall be appointed by the mayor and council.
(Ord. 10/8/90 § 2)
12.12.030 - Term of office.
The term of the five persons to be appointed by the mayor and city council shall be three years, except that the term of two of the members appointed to the first board shall be for only one year and the term of two members of the first board shall be for two years. In the event that a vacancy shall occur during the term of any member, his or her successor shall be appointed for the unexpired portion of the term.
(Ord. 10/8/90 § 3)
12.12.040 - Compensation.
Members of the board shall serve without compensation.
(Ord. 10/8/90 § 4)
12.12.050 - Duties, responsibilities, and operation.
It shall be the responsibility of the board to study, investigate and counsel for the care, preservation, pruning, planting, replanting, removal or disposition of trees and shrubs in parks, along streets and in other public areas. The board, when requested by the mayor and city council, shall consider, investigate, make findings, report and recommend upon any special matter or question coming within the scope of its work. The board shall choose its own officers, make its own rules and regulations and keep a journal of its proceedings. A majority of the members shall be a quorum for the transaction of business.
(Ord. 10/8/90 § 5)
12.12.060 - Definitions.
As used in this chapter:
"Crown spread" means the distance measured across the greatest diameter of a plant.
"Park trees" means either evergreen or deciduous trees or shrubs on land designated as public park land, owned by the city, or land to which the public has free access as a park.
"Shade trees" means any self-supporting woody plant of a species that is well shaped, well branched and well foliated which normally grows to an overall height of at least thirty-five feet and normally develops an average mature crown spread greater than thirty feet in Locust Grove, Georgia.
"Small trees" means either evergreen or deciduous trees or shrubs which do not normally exceed twelve feet in height at maturity. No small tree shall be permitted to exceed twelve feet in height.
"Street trees" means either evergreen or deciduous trees or shrubs growing on land lying within the public right-of-way on either side of all streets, avenues or ways within the city.
(Ord. 10/8/90 § 6 (part))
12.12.070 - List of approved trees.
A listing of street, park, shade and small trees approved by the tree board shall be maintained by the city tree board of the city.
(Ord. 10/8/90 § 6 (part))
12.12.080 - Distance from street corners and fireplugs.
No tree (whether street tree, park tree, shade tree or small tree) shall be planted closer than thirty-five feet to any street corner, measured from the point of nearest intersecting curbs or curblines. However, shrubs maintained less than three feet in height are permitted. No tree shall be planted closer than ten feet to any fire hydrant. This section shall apply only to the planting of new trees and shall not be interpreted to require the removal of trees in the ground on the date the ordinance codified in this chapter is adopted.
(Ord. 10/8/90 § 7)
12.12.090 - Utilities.
No street trees other than those species meeting the definition of small trees as set forth in Section 12.12.060 may be planted under or within ten lateral feet of any overhead utility wire or over or within five lateral feet of any underground water line, sewer line, power line or other utility.
This section shall apply only to the planting of new trees and shall not be interpreted to require the removal of trees in the ground on the date the ordinance codified in this chapter is adopted.
(Ord. 10/8/90 § 8)
12.12.100 - Public tree care.
A.
The city shall have the right to plant, prune, maintain and remove trees, plants and shrubs within the lines of streets, alleys, avenues, lanes, squares and public grounds, as may be necessary to insure public safety and to preserve or enhance the symmetry and beauty of such public grounds.
B.
The city shall have the right to remove or cause or order to be removed, any tree or part thereof within a public area or right-of-way which is in an unsafe condition or which by reason of its nature is injurious to sewers, electrical power lines, gas lines, water lines or other public improvements, or is affected with any injurious fungus, insect or other pest.
(Ord. 10/8/90 § 9)
12.12.110 - Tree topping.
It shall be unlawful as a normal practice for any person, firm or city department to top any street tree, park tree, or other tree on public property. "Topping" is defined as the severe cutting back of limbs to stubs larger than three inches in diameter within the tree's crown to such a degree so as to remove the normal canopy and disfigure the tree. Trees severely damaged by storms or other causes, or certain trees under utility wires where other pruning practices are impractical, shall be exempted from this chapter.
(Ord. 10/8/90 § 10)
12.12.120 - Pruning, corner clearance of trees on private property.
Every owner of any tree overhanging any street or right-of-way within the city shall prune the branches so that such branches shall not obstruct the light from any street lamp or obstruct the view of any street intersection and so that there shall be a clear space of eight feet above the surface of the street or sidewalk. Said owners shall remove all dead, diseased or dangerous trees, or broken or decayed limbs which constitute a menace to the safety of the public. The city shall have the right to prune any tree or shrub on private property when it interferes with the proper spread of light along the street from a streetlight or interferes with visibility of any traffic-control device or sign.
(Ord. 10/8/90 § 11)
12.12.130 - Dead or diseased tree removal on private property.
The city shall have the right to cause the removal of any dead or diseased trees on private property within the city, when such trees constitute a hazard to life and property, or harbor insects or disease which constitute a potential threat to other trees within the city. The city shall have the authority to take such action whenever necessary in cases of emergencies presenting a clear and immediate danger of irreparable harm to persons or property. Otherwise, the city tree board shall initiate action to have the tree removed by following the provisions of Chapter 8.12.
(Ord. 10/8/90 § 12)
12.12.140 - Removal of stumps.
All stumps of street and park trees shall be removed below the surface of the ground so that the top of the stump shall not project above the surface of the ground.
(Ord. 10/8/90 § 13)
12.12.150 - Interference with city tree board.
It shall be unlawful for any person to prevent, delay or interfere with the city tree board, or any of its agents, while engaging in and about the planting, cultivating, mulching, pruning, spraying, or removing of any street trees, park trees, small trees or trees on private grounds, as authorized in this chapter.
(Ord. 10/8/90 § 14)
12.12.160 - Arborist's license and bond.
It shall be unlawful for any person or firm to engage in the business or occupation of pruning, treating or removing street trees, park trees and/or small trees within the city without first applying for and procuring a license. The license fee shall be twenty-five dollars annually in advance; provided, however, that no license shall be required of any public utility company or city employee doing such work in the pursuit of their public service endeavors. Before any license shall be issued, each applicant shall first file evidence of possession of liability insurance in the minimum amounts of one hundred thousand dollars for bodily injury and fifty thousand dollars for property damage, which coverage shall indemnify the city or any person injured or damaged resulting from the pursuit of such endeavors as herein described.
(Ord. 10/8/90 § 15)
12.12.170 - Review by mayor and city council.
The mayor and city council shall have the right to review the conduct, acts and decisions of the city tree board. Any person may appeal any ruling or order of the city tree board to the mayor and city council, who may hear the matter and make final decision.
(Ord. 10/8/90 § 16)
12.12.180 - Violation—Penalty.
It shall be unlawful for any person or legal entity to violate any provision of this chapter. Any person violating the terms of this chapter or rules and regulations promulgated pursuant thereto shall be punished in municipal court by a fine not to exceed five hundred dollars and/or sixty days in jail for each separate violation. Each day the violation continues shall be considered a separate offense.
(Ord. 10/8/90 § 17)
Chapter 12.16 - CITY PARK REGULATIONS
Sections:

12.16.010 - Driving motor vehicles in parks.
It shall be unlawful for any person to drive a vehicle upon or across any part of any public park of the city except upon roadways laid out and maintained for vehicular travel. This section shall not apply to park employees whose duties require them to drive park maintenance equipment over parks.
(Prior code § 4-3-1)
12.16.020 - Closing hours.
Every public park in the city shall be closed to all persons at twelve midnight and shall not be reopened until six a.m. of the following day. It shall be unlawful for any person to remain in any public park between the hours of twelve midnight and six a.m., except with the express authorization of the mayor and council.
(Prior code § 4-3-2)
12.16.030 - Throwing missiles.
It shall be unlawful for any person in any park to throw bottles, cans, stones, sticks or other missiles.
(Prior code § 4-3-3)
12.16.040 - Overnight parking prohibited.
new
It shall be unlawful for any person to park or store any motor vehicle overnight in any public park in the city between the hours of twelve midnight and six a.m. without express authorization from the mayor and council. Members of the police department shall be authorized to remove any motor vehicle in violation of this section.
(Ord. No. 20-03-020, § 1, 3-9-20)
Chapter 12.20 - ONE-WAY STREETS
Sections:

12.20.010 - Smith Street.
Traffic along Smith Street shall be permitted to travel only one way, east to west, at all times for the day, between Cleveland Street and Highway 42. The appropriate and necessary traffic signs shall be placed in accordance with state law and the rules, regulations or guidelines of the governmental entity which exercises control over said one-way street, and any street or road which intersects said one-way street.
(Ord. 08-08-053 § 1)
12.20.020 - Combs Street.
Traffic along Combs Street shall be permitted to travel only one way, north to south, at all times of the day, between Club Drive and Peeksville Road. The appropriate and necessary traffic signs shall be placed in accordance with state law and the rules, regulations or guidelines of the governmental entity which exercises control over said one-way street or road which intersects said one-way street.
(Ord. No. 17-12-063, § 2, 12-18-17)
