Chapter 15.20 - PLUMBING FIXTURES
Sections:

15.20.010 - Purpose.
It is the purpose of this chapter to require the use of ultra-low-flow plumbing fixtures in all new construction, or when replacing plumbing fixtures during renovation or remodeling of existing buildings, and to require the labeling of plumbing fixtures with information regarding flow rates for the purpose of conserving water to maintain the integrity of drinking water supplies and reduce wastewater flows.
(Ord. 6/10/91 § 1)
15.20.020 - Definitions.
As used in this chapter:
"Commercial building" means any type of building other than residential.
"Construction" means the erection of a new building or the alteration of an existing building in connection with its repair or renovation, or in connection with making an addition to an existing building, and shall include the replacement of a malfunctioning, unserviceable or obsolete faucet, showerhead, toilet or urinal in an existing building.
"Person" means any individual, corporation, partnership or legal entity.
"Plumbing fixtures" means any toilet, urinal, showerhead, bathroom lavatory and kitchen faucet and replacement aerators.
"Residential building" means any building or unit of a building intended for occupancy as a dwelling, but shall not include a hotel or motel.
"Toilet" means any fixture consisting of a water-flushed bowl with a seat, used for the disposal of human waste.
"Urinal" means any fixture consisting of a water-flushed bowl used for the disposal of human waste.
(Ord. 6/10/91 § 2)
15.20.030 - Standards.
A.
No plumbing fixture shall be installed which does not meet the standards listed in subsection B of this section. This includes all plumbing fixtures installed in newly constructed buildings or when replacing plumbing fixtures during remodeling or renovation of existing buildings, except as noted in Section 15.20.050. The effective date of this requirement for residential buildings shall be July 1, 1991, and for commercial buildings shall be July 1, 1992.
B.
All plumbing fixtures installed as referred to in subsection A of this section should not exceed the following maximum water use rates:
1.
Toilets: 1.6 gallons per flush;
2.
Urinals: 1.0 gallons per flush;
3.
Showerheads: 2.5 gallons per minute;
4.
Kitchen faucets: 2.5 gallons per minute;
5.
Bathroom and lavatory faucets: 2.0 gallons per minute.
C.
The flow-restriction device in a showerhead must be a permanent and an integral part of the showerhead and must not be removable to allow flow rates in excess of that stated in subsection B of this section.
D.
Lavatory faucets located in restrooms intended for use by the general public shall be of the metering or self-closing type, in addition to the flow requirement listed in subsection B of this section.
(Ord. 6/10/91 § 3)
15.20.040 - Product labeling.
Effective July 1, 1991, all toilets, urinals, showerheads or faucets shall be clearly labeled by the manufacturer to indicate the maximum flow rate or water usage of the fixture. The water use rate of the fixture shall be certified by the manufacturer based on independent test results and using sixty psi for showerheads. The label shall be affixed to the fixture and remain there until the proper building and/or plumbing inspections have been conducted. Also, the product packaging must be clearly marked to identify water use rates when offered for retail sale.
(Ord. 6/10/91 § 4)
15.20.050 - Exceptions.
The following fixture uses or applications shall be exempt from the standards established in Section 15.20.030:
A.
Showers and faucets installed for safety purposes, such as emergency eye wash stations, etc.;
B.
Plumbing fixtures specifically designed for use by the physically handicapped;
C.
Fixtures specifically designed to withstand unusual abuse or for installation in correctional institutions which may require more water for proper operation;
D.
Instances of building renovation where significant plumbing modifications would be required to accommodate the lower flows or for specialized purposes which cannot be accommodated by existing technology. Permission for the exceptions listed here must be obtained from the director of the appropriate governmental department administering these rules.
(Ord. 6/10/91 § 5)
15.20.060 - Compliance and enforcement.
A.
The municipal court shall have jurisdiction to hear all cases involving an alleged violation of this chapter.
B.
In addition to the penalties set forth in Section 15.20.070, the mayor may take such other action as described below to compel compliance and may maintain an action or proceeding in the municipal court or any court of competent jurisdiction to compel compliance with or restrain any violation of this chapter.
C.
Compliance with the requirements for installation and labeling at the time of installation in Section 15.20.030 shall be determined by the Henry County director of building inspection or his agent in cases of new or replacement plumbing fixture installations, and compliance shall be a condition for receipt of any occupancy permit.
D.
Compliance with the requirements in Section 15.20.040, regarding the labeling of plumbing fixtures offered for retail sale, shall be determined by the Henry County director of building inspection or his/her agent. The agency shall have access to all establishments which offer for retail sale or sell plumbing fixtures at retail for purposes of determining compliance with Section 15.20.040.
(Amended during 5-95 supplement; Ord. 6/10/91 § 7)
15.20.070 - Violation—Penalty.
A.
Any person who violates any provision of this chapter shall be subject to a fine not to exceed five hundred dollars for each violation. Each violation shall constitute a separate offense and each day that such violation continues shall constitute a separate offense.
B.
Any person who violates any provision of this chapter and holds a business license which authorizes the construction, installation, repair, distribution, sale or maintenance of such plumbing fixtures may have their license suspended for a definite period or cancelled. The time of suspension or cancellation will be determined by the judge of the city court.
C.
Any person who violates the provisions of this chapter may be denied water and sewer services or have their water and sewer services terminated. Such water and sewer services can be terminated by an order from the judge of the city court.
(Ord. 6/10/91 § 6)
