Chapter 15.42 - LANDSCAPING
Sections:

15.42.010 - Short title—Purpose—Administration—Applicability.
A.
Short Title. This section shall be referred to as the "City of Locust Grove Landscaping Ordinance."
B.
Purposes. The purposes of this chapter are to protect and enhance the natural environment by establishing landscaping standards for property to be developed; enhancing the appearance of the city; protecting public and private investment by enhancing property values; buffering incompatible land uses; and providing for enforcement of the provisions contained in this chapter.
C.
Administration. The city arborist shall have the primary responsibility for administration of this chapter. The city arborist may adopt policies and procedures to be followed by the planning and zoning department, the development plan review department and the building department in administering this chapter.
D.
Applicability. This section shall apply as follows:
1.
For any new development or construction in any district and for property on which public and semi-public uses or buildings are located.
2.
For any development or construction that increases the gross floor area, lot area, or parking area of an existing structure or development located in any of the districts listed above by twenty-five percent or more.
3.
For any new development or construction for which development plans are required.
4.
For any development or construction that increases by twenty-five percent or more the gross floor area, lot area, or parking area of an existing structure or development for which development plans were required.
5.
If trees of eight inches DBH or greater are removed from any street right-of-way or any tree protection area in order to accommodate the erection of a billboard, the site shall be landscaped according to the planting requirement schedules in this chapter, provided, however, that overstory trees shall not be required for sites on which billboards are erected.
6.
In order to accommodate the preservation of specimen trees, the city arborist may authorize the alteration of normal building setbacks, yards, and parking requirements in accordance with Chapter 15.38 of the city code.
7.
This chapter shall control over any conflicting provisions found in the city zoning ordinance.
(Ord. 03-68-04C § 1 (part))
15.42.020 - Definitions.
The following definitions shall apply to this chapter. Other words and terms shall have their customary dictionary meaning.
"Board of appeals" means the Locust Grove city council.
"Building department" means the Henry County building department.
"Caliper" means a standard of trunk measurement for understory or replacement trees. Caliper inches are measured at the height of six inches above the ground for trees up to and including four inch caliper and twelve inches above the ground for trees larger than four inch caliper.
"City arborist" means the arborist, or his/her designee, appointed by the city council. The city manager shall serve as city arborist whenever the position is vacant.
"City" means the city of Locust Grove.
"Conifer (or coniferous) tree" means any tree with needle leaves and a woody cone fruit including, but not limited to, pine, juniper and cedar species.
"Critical root zone" means the minimum area beneath a tree, which shall be left undisturbed in order to preserve a sufficient root mass to give a tree a reasonable chance of survival. The critical root zone (CRZ) will typically be represented by a concentric circle centering on the tree's trunk with a radius equal in feet to one and three-tenths times the number of inches of the trunk diameter. Example: The CRZ radius of a twenty-inch diameter tree is twenty-six feet.
"Development plan review department" is the Henry County development plan review department.
"Diameter breast-height (DBH)" means the standard measure of overstory tree size (for trees existing on a site). The tree trunk is measured at a height of four feet above the ground. If a tree splits into multiple trunks below four feet, measure the trunk at its most narrow point beneath the split.
"Ground cover" means natural plant material such as vines, shrubs, or grasses that would not normally attain a height of more than two feet.
"Hardwood tree" means any tree that is not coniferous (cone bearing). This definition is based on the colloquialism and does not necessarily reflect any true qualities of the tree.
"Landscaping" means any additions to the natural features of a plot of ground to restore construction disturbance and to make it more attractive, as by adding lawns, trees, and shrubs to the natural environment.
"Landscaping plan" means a plan containing the information provided for in Section 15.42.040.
"Natural vegetation" means a generally undisturbed, maintenance-free, self-perpetuating stand of vegetation comprised of indigenous shrubs, flowers, wild grasses, and trees.
"Overstory tree" means those trees that compose the top layer or canopy of vegetation and will generally reach a mature height of greater than forty feet.
"Planning and zoning department" is the Henry County planning and zoning department.
"Recommended overstory or understory tree" means any tree listed in Chapter 15.38, Appendix A of this code or any tree determined by the city arborist; or a landscape architect licensed by the state of Georgia to be suited to the soils and climate of the city of Locust Grove, Georgia.
"Recommended shrub/ground cover" means any shrub or ground cover listed in Appendix A of this chapter or any tree determined by the city arborist; or a landscape architect licensed by the state of Georgia, after consultation with the city arborist, to be suited to the soils and climate of the city of Locust Grove, Georgia.
"Registered landscape architect" is a person registered in the state of Georgia as being a landscape architect.
"Shrub" means a woody plant or bush of relatively low height (two to six feet) distinguished from a tree by having several stems rather than a single trunk.
"Softwood tree" means any coniferous (cone bearing) tree. This definition is based on the colloquialism and does not necessarily reflect any true qualities of the tree.
"Specimen tree" means any tree which qualifies for special consideration for preservation due to its size, type, condition, location or historical significance.
"Tree" means any living, self-supporting woody or fibrous plant which normally obtains a diameter breast height of at least three inches, and typically has one main stem or trunk and many branches.
"Tree plan" means a plan conforming to Section 15.38.030 of this code.
"Tree protection area" means an area encompassing the critical root zone of a tree.
"Understory" means those trees that grow beneath the overstory, and will generally reach a mature height of under forty feet.
(Ord. 03-68-04C § 1 (part))
15.42.030 - Landscaping plan required.
A landscaping plan shall be required as follows.
A.
For developments or structures for which development plans are required to be reviewed by the planning and zoning department, a landscaping plan, signed and sealed by a registered landscape architect, shall be included as part of the development plans and both shall be submitted to the city but not subject to review by the Henry County planning and zoning commission. Rather, a landscape plan shall be subject to review by the city arborist. The landscaping plan, as approved or amended by the city council, shall be required and included as part of any subsequent submittal for a building permit and no such permit shall be issued until such landscaping plan has been submitted.
B.
For any other property, development, or construction to which this section applies, an approved landscaping plan shall be included as part of the submittal for a building permit and no such permit shall be issued until such landscaping plan has been submitted.
(Ord. 03-68-04C § 1 (part))
15.42.040 - Required information for landscaping plan.
At a minimum, landscaping plans shall include the following information. Additional information may be required by the city arborist or city council.
A.
Any tree removal plan previously approved for the property.
B.
Location of any tree protection areas and residential buffers on the property.
C.
Tree survey as required under Chapter 15.38 of this code.
D.
Information showing the locations, species, and sizes of all proposed landscaping materials, including existing trees and other plant materials that will be incorporated into the landscaping.
E.
Calculations showing that the proposed plant materials will satisfy the planting requirement schedule as described in Section 15.42.050 of this chapter.
F.
If the development is to include an irrigation system, information about the type and coverage of the irrigation system shall be included in the landscaping plan.
G.
The location of any existing or planned power lines or other utilities located on the proposed development or on any adjacent rights-of-way.
H.
Measures to be taken to prevent damage to any existing trees that are to be incorporated into the landscaping in accordance with Chapter 15.38 of this code.
(Ord. 03-68-04C § 1 (part))
15.42.050 - Planting requirement schedules.
A.
For any development or construction to which this chapter applies, the following point schedule shall be satisfied. However, at least twenty-five percent of the points shall be accounted for by hardwood overstory trees and at least fifty percent of the points shall be accounted for by a combination of overstory trees and understory trees.
Table 1. Required Points by Size of Developed Lots*
EXPAND
Square Footage of Lot Landscaping Point Requirement
0 — 10,000 Square Feet 40 + 1 per 200 sq ft of paved area
10,001 — 20,000 Square Feet 60 + 1 per 200 sq ft of paved area
20,001 — 30,000 Square Feet 80 + 1 per 200 sq ft of paved area
30,001 — 40,000 Square Feet 100 + 1 per 200 sq ft of paved area
40,001 — 50,000 Square Feet 120 + 1 per 200 sq ft of paved area
50,001 — 60,000 Square Feet 140 + 1 per 200 sq ft of paved are a
Greater than 60,000 Square Feet (Square Footage/400) + 1 per 200 sq ft of paved area
  * The landscaping requirements of this subsection are to be applied to individual lots whether residential, commercial, office/institutional, or industrial. This means that the requirements of this subsection can not be met through landscaped buffers or preserved natural areas. Preserved trees on individual lots, however, may be counted towards the requirements of this subsection as provided herein.
B.
The following schedule shall be used to calculate the value of new plant materials in a landscaping plan.
Table 2. Point Values for New Plant Materials
EXPAND
Plant Material Minimum Size Point Value
Recommended Overstory Tree 2.0 — 2.5 inch caliper or greater and 6 ft. or greater in height for hardwood trees
7 gallon for conifer trees 5 for hardwood trees
2.5 for softwood trees
Recommended Understory Tree Single Trunk - 1.00 inch to 1.25 inch caliper or greater and 4 feet or greater in height
Multiple Trunk - 6 feet or greater in height with minimum of three trunks 2.5
Recommended Shrub or Groundcover Shrub — No less than 18″ tall or 3 gallon container size, whichever is greater 1
Grass, Sod Not Applicable 1 point for each 500 square feet above the amount required in Table 4
Trees (overstory or understory) Not Applicable Additional 2 points per overstory tree or 1 point per understory tree with an increase in the minimum caliper of three inches
  C.
The following schedule may be used to calculate point values for existing trees that are preserved and incorporated into the landscaping plan for a development.
Table 3. Point Values for Existing Trees
EXPAND
Tree Point Value
Overstory more than 3 inches caliper, but less than 8 inches DBH hardwood 8 softwood 4
Overstory Tree more than 8 inches caliper, but less than 12 inches DBH hardwood 10 softwood 5
Overstory Tree more than 12 inches caliper, but less than 24 inches DBH hardwood 15 softwood 8
Overstory Tree greater than 24 inches DBH hardwood 20 softwood 10
Understory Tree more than 4 inches caliper DBH 5
  D.
The following schedule shall reflect the minimum sod requirements for each district under the city zoning ordinance.
Table 4. Minimum Sod Requirement
EXPAND
District (or similar use in PD or PTD District) Minimum Sod Requirement
RA (Residential/Agricultural) 20 feet from all sides of the structure that is not covered by an impervious surface
R-l (Single-Family Residence District) 20 feet from all sides of the structure that is not covered by an impervious surface
R-2 (Single-Family Residence District) 20 feet from all sides of the structure that is not covered by an impervious surface; side yards need only be 15 feet sodded
R-3 (Medium/High-Density Single-Family Residential District) Front and side yards completely sodded with the rear yard sodded 20 feet
RM (Multi-family residential -apartments) All yards sodded
C-1 through C-3 (Commercial) All yards sodded including parking islands except where other ground cover provided
O/I (Office or industrial) All yards sodded including parking islands except where other ground cover provided
M-1 and M-2 (Industrial) All yards sodded including parking islands except where other ground cover provided
  E.
Residential Developments.
1.
All residential developments shall have one overstory tree per forty feet on each side of the street within the subdivision. Said trees shall be planted between the street edge and the sidewalk of rights-of-way and shall be of a species that can survive in close proximity to impervious surfaces without damaging sidewalks, curbs, and streets. These plantings shall be located to maintain visibility at all intersections as stated in Section 3-7-78 of the Henry County zoning provisions.
2.
There shall be a minimum of one overstory tree, one understory tree, and five shrubs planted in conjunction with each subdivision entrance sign that is proposed.
3.
The above required plantings under subsection E of this section are in addition to any landscaping requirements under this section and any landscape strip or buffer requirements listed in the city zoning ordinance, but may contribute toward compliance with Chapter 15.38 of the city code.
F.
Commercial, Office/Institutional, and Industrial Districts.
1.
Interior drive aisles shall have one overstory tree per forty-five feet, or portion thereof, on each side of any proposed drive aisle. Said trees shall be planted between the street edge and the rights-of-way line and shall be of a species that can survive in close proximity to impervious surfaces without damaging sidewalks, curbs, and streets. These plantings shall be located to maintain visibility at all intersections as stated in Section 3-7-78.
2.
There shall be landscaped areas a minimum of four feet width immediately adjacent to buildings on all four sides. Trees, shrubs, sod, or other ground cover shall be placed in those landscaped areas immediately adjacent to buildings and within the front, side and rear setbacks. Sod appropriate to the season shall be planted in all yard areas not occupied by building, driveways and vehicles parking areas.
3.
Garbage and refuse collection areas shall be screened on three sides by upright evergreen shrubs planted five foot centers and a minimum six foot high solid fence or wall which shall be compatible in material, in terms of texture and quality, as the material and color of the principal building.
4.
Loading areas shall be screened from view from any public rights-of-way or their entire length except where necessary to provide access to the loading area. The screening shall consist of upright evergreen shrubs planted on five foot centers. The city arborist may require a mixture of plant materials and a minimum six foot high solid fence or wall which shall be compatible in material, in terms of texture and quality, as the material and color of the principal building. In the case of buildings in a mixed-use neighborhood where mixed-use buildings (containing both residential and commercial, office, and/or institutional uses) are located proximate to the curb, the city arborist may waive or alter this requirement.
5.
Vehicular use areas designed to accommodate more than twenty automobiles are required to install interior landscaped areas such as islands, peninsulas, and medians so that no more than twelve adjacent parking spaces exist without a landscaped separation at least eight feet in width. Interior landscaped areas shall be located to most effectively relieve the monotony of large expanses of paving and contribute to orderly circulation of vehicular and pedestrian traffic.
6.
The above required plantings under subsection F of this section are in addition to any landscaping requirements under this section, any landscape strip or buffer requirements listed in the city zoning ordinance, but may contribute toward compliance with Chapter 15.38 of the city code.
G.
Documentation of compliance with this subsection, shall be prepared, signed and sealed by a registered landscape architect.
(Ord. 03-68-04C § 1 (part))
15.42.060 - Required landscaped areas.
A.
All developments shall include a sodded landscaped area of at least ten feet in depth adjacent to any public right-of-way, exclusive of those interior public right-of-ways to be dedicated to the city, unless a shallower depth is approved by the city council in its approval of the landscaping plan.
B.
Any area used for vehicular parking, access, or circulation shall be separated from any residentially zoned property by a landscaped area of at least ten feet in depth.
C.
The required landscaping areas under this section may be included in a required buffer area.
(Ord. 03-68-04C § 1 (part))
15.42.070 - Maintenance of landscaping.
A.
Landscaping materials, including preserved trees that die or become diseased or damaged shall be replaced by the developer one year from the date the lot on which the plant material is located is sold. The replacement plants shall have point values equal to or greater than those being replaced as determined by the planting requirement schedules in Section 15.42.050. Replacement plants shall be the same type as those being replaced unless the city arborist or a registered landscape architect determines that one or more alternate species would be more likely to thrive in the development, in which case one of the alternate species may be used.
B.
Failure to maintain landscaping materials or to replace landscaping materials that have died or become diseased or damaged shall be a violation of this chapter and shall be punishable as provided for in Section 15.42.100.
(Ord. 03-68-04C § 1 (part))
15.42.080 - Completion of landscaping or bond required for certificate of occupancy.
A.
No certificate of occupancy for any building or development covered by this chapter shall be issued unless the required landscaping has been completed. A temporary certificate of occupancy, not to exceed six months, may be issued if a cash bond for the completion of the required landscaping is provided to the city in accordance with the following provision.
B.
The bond shall be in an amount equal to one hundred fifty percent of the estimated cost of the materials, labor and maintenance associated with the required landscaping. The bond may be paid with each phase of development rather than for the development as a whole. Otherwise, the bond shall be held for one year and to the end of the succeeding planting season to ensure survival of the landscaping and the applicant shall be responsible for the irrigation (watering) of landscaping during the period of the bond. Upon compliance with the landscaping requirements for either the development as a whole or a particular phase of development the bond shall be released.
(Ord. 03-68-04C § 1 (part))
15.42.090 - Variances.
A.
Written requests for a variance are permitted.
B.
The city arborist shall have the authority to grant written variance requests not to exceed twenty percent of the minimum or maximum standards of this chapter. The city council shall schedule a hearing as soon as reasonably practicable to consider an appeal of a variance request denied or granted by the city arborist. Variance requests in excess of twenty percent must be presented in writing to the city council for review and consideration.
C.
Variance requests shall be ruled on by the city arborist or city council in writing and shall be issued no later than thirty days after a request is reviewed.
D.
Variances can be granted only in the case of extreme hardship or unusual circumstance. The burden is on the applicant to establish the basis for a grant of a variance. The factors to be taken into consideration by the city arborist or city council may include the following:
1.
The ease with which the applicant can alter or revise the proposed development or improvement to accommodate existing trees.
2.
The economic hardship that would be imposed upon the applicant were the variance denied.
3.
The need for visual screening in transitional zones or relief from glare, blight, commercial or industrial unsightliness or any other visual affront.
4.
Whether the topography of the area in which the plant is located is of such a nature to be damaging or injurious to plant.
5.
Whether reducing the landscaping requirement would have an adverse impact upon neighboring property values.
(Ord. 03-68-04C § 1 (part))
15.42.100 - Enforcement and penalties.
A.
Enforcement. The city arborist or his or her designee shall be primarily responsible for the administration and enforcement of the provisions of this chapter. The city arborist shall be responsible for recommending to the director of the Henry County building department, or other position with similar authority, the approval or denial of applications for certificate of occupancy.
B.
Penalties.
1.
A violation of this chapter shall constitute a misdemeanor punishable by a fine of up to one thousand dollars (per day per occurrence) and/or a sentence of up to thirty days incarceration. Replacement of dead, diseased, or damaged plant material shall also be imposed. Nothing herein shall prevent the city from taking such other lawful action as is necessary to prevent or remedy any violations.
2.
In addition, upon notice from the city arborist, work on any development that is being done contrary to the provisions of this section shall immediately cease. The stop-work notice shall be in writing and shall go to the owner of the property, or to his agent, or to the person doing the work, and shall state the conditions under which work may be resumed. When an emergency exists, the city arborist shall not be required to give written notice prior to stopping the work. Further, in the event that work on any development is being done contrary to the provisions of this section, the city arborist may revoke any permit pertaining to the development activity for which the land disturbance or building permit has been issued and may refuse to issue or allow to be issued any further permit until, at the discretion of the city arborist, the work on the development is brought into compliance with the provisions of this section.
(Ord. 03-68-04C § 1 (part))
Appendix A
Recommended Shrubs and Ground Cover
A.
Shrubs.
American Holly
American Boxwood
Arborvitae
Azalea (deciduous - interior)
Bar Harbor Juniper
Bayberry
Bigleaf Hydrangum
Burford Holly
Camellia
Cherry Laurel
Chinese Witchhazel (deciduous - interior)
Chinese Privet (deciduous - interior)
Common Privet
Dwarf Burford Holly (evergreen - interior)
Dwarf Burning Bush (deciduous - interior)
Dwarf Chinese Holly (evergreen - interior)
Dwarf Nandina (evergreen - interior)
Dwarf Yaupon Holly (evergreen - interior)
English Ivy
Flame Azalea
Flowering Jasmine (deciduous - interior)
Forsythia (deciduous - interior)
Golden Raintree
Hetz Juniper
Hibiscus
Holly
Hollywood Juniper
Hydrangea
Japanese Flowering Quince (deciduous - interior)
Japanese Holly (evergreen - interior)
Juniper (evergreen - interior)
Leatherleaf Vinburnum (evergreen - interior)
Ligustrum
Mother-in-Laws Tongue
Mugo Pine (evergreen - interior)
Nandina (evergreen - interior)
Nellie R. Stevens Holly
Oakleaf Hydrangea (deciduous - interior)
Oregonholly Grape (evergreen - interior)
Osmanthus
Pepp'mint Geranium
Piedmont Azalea
Plumleaf Azalea
Red Columbine
Russian Olive
Savannah Holly
Spirea (all varieties) (deciduous - interior)
Thorny Eleagnus
True Myrtle
Varigated Privet
Viburnum (deciduous - interior)
Warty Barberry (evergreen - interior)
Weigela (deciduous - interior)
Winter Jasmine (deciduous - interior)
Winter Honeysuckle (evergreen - interior)
B.
Ground Cover.
Aaronsbeard St. Johnswort
Aragula
Bermuda Grass
Birds Nest Fern
Blue Carpet Juniper
Centipede Grass
Common Sassafras
Creeping Lilyturf (shade)
Dwarf Juniper
Dwarf Roses
English Ivy (shade)
Evergreen Candytuft (border)
Fescue
Hybrid Daylily
Lily-Turf
Ornamental Grasses
Pachysandra (shade)
Periwinkle (shade)
Purpleleaf Wintercreeper
Rockyspray Cotoneaster
Sargent Juniper
Shore Juniper
St. Augustine Grass
Willowleaf Cotoneaster
Zoysia Grass
C.
Understory Trees.
Trident Maple
Serviceberry
American Hornbeam, Musclewood
Eastern Redbud
Chinese Redbud
Fringe Tree, Grancy Graybeard
Common Smoketree
Washington Hawthorne
Leyland Cypress
Japanese Cryptomeria
Silverbell
Savannah Holly
Decidious Holly
Nellie R. Stevens Holly
American Holly
Yaupon Holly
Bougainvillea Goldenraintree
Panicled Goldenraintree
Crapemyrtle improved hybrids
Osage—orange
Sweetbay Magnolia
Saucer Magnolia
Star Magnolia
Flowering Crabapple
Waxmyrtle
Ironwood, Carolina Hornbeam
Sourwood
Chinese Pistache
Sassafras
Chastetree
D.
Overstory Trees.
Southern Sugar Maple
Florida Maple
Red Maple and improved hybrids
Sugar maple
River Birch
Pecan
Shagbark Hickory
Chinese Chestnut
Common Chinafir
American Beech
Green Ash
Ginko, grafted (male only)
Eastern Red Cedar
Sweetgum
Yellow Poplar
Southern Magnolia
Dawn Redwood
Swamp Tupelo
Black Gum
Sourwood
Slash Pine
White pine
Loblolly Pine
Virginia Pine
American Sycamore
Sawtooth Oak
White Oak
Scarlet Oak
Southern Red Oak
Water Oak
Willow Oak
Pin Oak
Chesnut Oak
Shumard Oak
Japanese Pagodatree
Bald Cypress
True Chinese Elm
Japanese Zelkova
