ARTICLE V. - PENALTIES AND ADMINISTRATION

2-16-71 - Penalties.
This Section sets forth minimum penalties payable to the Utility for certain specific violations of this ordinance:
(a)
Violation of water use during a proclaimed period of water shortage (Section 2-16-7(a)(3) or (a)(4)):
$250.00 for each offense.
(b)
Interfere with and/or damage to facilities and/or machinery owned, operated or leased by the Utility (Section 2-16-7(e)):
$100.00 plus all costs for repairs or replacement.
(c)
Unauthorized dumping from septic tank or septic tank clean out trucks (Section 2-16-9(f)):
$200.00 each offense plus all clean up costs.
(d)
Unauthorized turning on and off of water and handling of meters (Section 2-16-11(a)):
$50.00 first offense, $100.00 for each offense thereafter, plus costs of any damages inflicted.
(e)
Use of water from a fire hydrant without permission (Section 2-16-13(c)):
$250.00 first offense, $500.00 for each offense thereafter.
(f)
Use of water without knowledge of the Utility (Section 2-16-8(s) and Section 2-16-64(b)(11)):
$100.00 first offense, $200.00 for each offense thereafter, plus estimated usage for each offense.
(g)
Use of sewer without knowledge of the Utility (Section 2-16-64(b)(12)):
$100.00 first offense, $200.00 for each offense thereafter, plus estimated usage for each offense.
2-16-72 - Injunctions.
The Utility or County Attorney or their designee may seek an injunction against any person or legal entity who violates this ordinance.
2-16-73 - Liens.
(a)
Any charges and/or fees made by the Utility for furnishing water and wastewater services and services related thereto and for every kind of service necessary or incidental to the furnishing of water and wastewater services, shall constitute a lien against the real property to which such services are furnished upon the issuance and recording of an execution provided the owner of such real property is the person who incurred the charges.
(b)
Should the customer, as identified in subsection (a), above, fail to pay any of the foregoing charges and the same be in default for a period of ten days after the due date, the Director shall be authorized to have an execution issued by the Finance Director of the Utility, or such person designated for same, which execution shall issue against the property, as described on the latest ad valorem tax digest and in personam against the owner of the property, for the principal amount due plus interest at the rate of seven percent per annum from the due date and the costs for issuance of the execution. Subsequent costs shall be the same as those allowed by law relative to tax executions. Such executions shall be recorded on the general execution docket of the Clerk of Superior Court of Glynn County and shall be delivered to the County Sheriff and processed in accordance with the state law covering the enforcement of executions for taxes. The execution shall constitute a lien against the property from the time of its filing, which lien shall rank on a parity with and be of equal dignity to other liens for special tax assessments.
2-16-74 - Unauthorized Obligation of Utility.
No officer, agent or employee of the Utility shall have authority to bind the Utility by any promise, agreement or representation in violation of this ordinance and the rules and regulations promulgated in accordance herewith, including any policies and resolutions adopted by the Utility.
2-16-75 - Amendment.
(a)
The board of commissioners reserves the right at any time to alter, amend, or add to this ordinance and to the rules and regulations promulgated by authority hereof, or to substitute other ordinances, rules and regulations therefore in consultation with the utility pursuant to section 2 of the operational agreement, as amended.
(b)
Rates, fees and charges provided for herein shall be established by resolution of the Utility and shall be subject to revision or increase at any time by resolution of the Utility, in the middle of any billing period, retroactively to the beginning of such billing period.
2-16-76 - Severability.
If any provision, paragraph, word, or section of this ordinance is invalidated by any court of competent jurisdiction, the remaining provisions, paragraphs, words, and sections shall not be affected and shall continue in full force and effect.
2-16-77 - Repeal of Conflicting Laws.
All other ordinances and parts of other ordinances inconsistent or conflicting with any part of this ordinance are hereby repealed to the extent of such inconsistency or conflict.
2-16-78 - Effective Date.
This ordinance became effective upon the approval by the Board of Commissioners of Glynn County, Georgia, the 3 rd day of June, 2010.
2-16-79—2-16-99 - Reserved.
