ARTICLE VI. - SCRAP TIRE AND SOLID WASTE MANAGEMENT ORDINANCE[2]

Footnotes:
--- (2) ---
Note— (Amended 4/20/00)

2-16-150 - Short Title.
This Article shall be known and may be cited as the "Scrap Tire and Solid Waste Management Ordinance."
2-16-151 - Purpose.
This ordinance is adopted pursuant to O.C.G.A. § 36-1-20 for the purpose of protecting and preserving the public health, safety and welfare of the citizens of Glynn County, Georgia, as well as to maintain a healthful, orderly, clean and beautiful environment. This ordinance is intended to supplement and to coordinate existing litter control efforts and the Clean Community Ordinance and it is not intended to repeal existing laws, except as specifically stated, or to supersede, amend, or modify any other ordinance governing or prohibiting the control and disposition of litter or waste.
2-16-152 - Applicability.
(a)
Scrap tire handling shall be regulated from the point of generation through disposal. The provisions of this ordinance shall apply to all persons presently engaged in or proposing to be engaged in the retail sale of new replacement tires and/or handling of scrap tires.
(b)
All the persons defined as scrap tire generators, carriers, sorters, processors and retail tire dealers shall be subject to this ordinance as well as the requirements of Chapter 391-3-4 of the Georgia Rules and O.C.G.A. § 12-8-20 et seq., as amended from time to time.
2-16-153 - Definitions.
Definitions set forth in Section 2-16-333 of the Glynn County Code of Ordinances are incorporated herein by reference and in addition thereto the following definitions shall apply to this ordinance:
(a)
End User means the last person who uses scrap tires, chips, crumb rubber, or similar materials to make a product with economic value or in the case of energy recovery, the person who utilizes the heat content or other forms of energy from the incineration or pyrolysis of waste tires, chips or similar materials.
(b)
Georgia Rules means the rules and regulations promulgated by the Georgia Department of Natural Resources, Environmental Protection Division.
(c)
Financial Assurance means a mechanism designed to demonstrate that funds will be available to ensure compliance with statutory, regulatory and permit requirements of scrap tire carriers. The financial mechanisms must either be performance bonds or letters of credit.
(d)
Manifest means a form or document used for identifying the quantity and composition and the origin, routing and destination of scrap tires during transportation from the point of generation, through any intermediate points, to an end user, processor, or disposer approved by the Department of Natural Resources, Environmental Protection Division.
(e)
Mixed Tires means a heterogeneous group of tires consisting of "used", "retreadable casings", and "scrap tires".
(f)
Retreadable Casing means a tire that has the quality and soundness of the tire structure to accept a retread or repair and provide additional service and is destined for retreading.
(g)
Retail Tire Dealer means a person actively engaged in the business of selling new replacement tires. Retail tire dealers may be also, but are not limited to, manufacturers, wholesalers and others who sell new replacement tires to the ultimate consumer.
(h)
Scrap Tire means a tire that is no longer suitable for its original intended purpose because of wear, damage, or defect and does not meet the definition of a "Used Tire" as defined herein.
(i)
Scrap Tire Carrier means any person engaged in picking up or transporting scrap tires, not otherwise exempted, for the purpose of removal to a scrap tire processor, end user, or disposal facility.
(j)
Scrap Tire Generator means any person who generates scrap tires. Generators may include, but are not limited to, retail tire dealers, retreaders, scrap tire processors, automobile dealers, private company vehicle maintenance shops, garages, and service stations.
(k)
Scrap Tire Processing means any method, system, or other treatment designed to change the physical form, size, or chemical content of scrap tires and includes all aspects of its management, such as administration, personnel, land, equipment, buildings and other elements. Processing includes, but is not limited to, shredding, baling, recycling or sorting of scrap tires.
(l)
Scrap Tire Processor means any person who is approved by the Department of Natural Resources, Environmental Protection Division. to receive scrap tires from scrap tire generators or scrap tire carriers for the purpose of scrap tire processing.
(m)
Scrap Tire Sorter means any person, other than the original scrap tire generator, who handles mixed tires by separating used tires and retreadable casings from scrap tires.
(n)
Solid Waste means business trash, garbage, hazardous refuse, household trash, industrial waste, litter, refuse and yard trash.
(o)
Tire Retreader means any person actively engaged in the business of retreading scrap tires by scarifying the surface to remove the old surface tread and attaching a new tread to make a useable tire.
(p)
Ultimate Consumer means the last person who receives and uses a new replacement tire. Ultimate consumers may be, but are not limited to, the following:
(1)
An individual consumer;
(2)
A leasing company purchasing tires from retail dealers for their vehicle fleet;
(3)
A private company purchasing tires from retail dealers for their vehicle fleet; or
(4)
A government agency purchasing tires from retail dealers for their vehicle fleet.
(q)
Used Tire means a tire which has a minimum of 2/32 inch of road tread and which is still suitable for its original purpose. It must be inventoried and marketed in substantially the same fashion as a new tire. The dealer must be able to provide satisfactory evidence that the market exists, and that the used tires are, in fact, being marketed.
2-16-154 - Retail Tire Dealers.
Retail Tire Dealers shall be subject to Section 391-3-4-.19(3) of the Georgia Rules for Scrap Tire Management and O.C.G.A. § 12-8-40.1 for Tire Disposal Restrictions, as amended from time to time.
2-16-155 - Scrap Tire Generators.
Scrap Tire Generators shall be subject to Section 391-3-4-.19(4) of the Georgia Rules for Scrap Tire Management and O.C.G.A. 12-8-40.1 for Tire Disposal Restrictions, as amended from time to time.
2-16-156 - Scrap Tire Carriers.
Scrap Tire Carriers shall be subject to Section 391-3-4-.19(5) of the Georgia Rules for Scrap Tire Management and O.C.G.A. § 12-8-40.1 for Tire Disposal Restrictions, as amended from time to time.
2-16-157 - Scrap Tire Processors.
Scrap Tire Processors shall be subject to Section 391-3-4-.19(7)(a) of the Georgia Rules for Scrap Tire Management and O.C.G.A. § 12-8-40.1 for Tire Disposal Restrictions, as amended from time to time.
2-16-158 - Scrap Tire Sorters.
Scrap Tire Sorters shall be subject to Section 391-3-4-.19(7)(b) of the Georgia Rules for Scrap Tire Management and O.C.G.A. § 12-8-40.1 for Tire Disposal Restrictions, as amended from time to time.
2-16-159 - Scrap Tire Disposal.
(a)
No person may store, dispose, leave, cause to be left, throw, place, dump or to cause or permit the dumping, depositing, or placing of any scrap tires on any public or private property in the unincorporated area of Glynn County or any waters or waterways, streams, marsh areas, drainage ditches, alleys, median strips, walkways or public places of travel or in any containers or receptacles designed for household trash, business trash, garbage, or any dumpster, except as otherwise stated in the provisions governing the disposal and storage of scrap tires in Section 391-3-4-.19 of the Georgia Rules for Scrap Tire Management and O.C.G.A. § 12-8-40.1 for Tire Disposal Restrictions, as amended from time to time, governing the disposal and storage of scrap tires.
(b)
No person shall burn or cause to be burned scrap tires of any quantities that is not in compliance with the solid waste thermal treatment technology facilities as defined on O.C.G.A. § 12-8-22(36), as amended from time to time, and the person is authorized to use the property for such treatment.
2-16-160 - Transporting of Solid Waste.
(a)
It shall be unlawful to drive or operate a vehicle in Glynn County when hauling municipal, commercial, or industrial solid waste that leaks, flows freely or spills from said vehicle.
(b)
Any litter or municipal, commercial, or industrial solid waste shall be covered or secured in such a manner that litter or such waste will not blow or escape from said vehicle while moving or parked on public or private property in Glynn County.
2-16-161 - Solid Waste Violations.
Unlawful solid waste activities shall be determined in accordance with the Clean Community Ordinance of the Glynn County Code of Ordinances (Article VII, Section 2-16-231 et seq.).
2-16-162 - Reserved.
(#O-2016-01)
2-16-163 - Penalty for Violations of this Ordinance.
Any person, firm, business, or corporation violating any portion of this ordinance shall be guilty of a misdemeanor and, upon conviction thereof in the Magistrate Court of Glynn County, shall be punishable as follows:
(a)
The punishment imposed for any single violation of this ordinance shall not exceed a maximum fine of $1,000.00 or 60 days imprisonment, or both.
(b)
The minimum punishment imposed for any violation of this ordinance shall be a fine of $100.00 for the first offense and $500.00 for the second offense, and $1,000.00 for the third offense and for each subsequent offense. Each day a continuing violation occurs shall constitute a separate violation, excepting violations for littering.
(c)
Nothing contained herein shall not preclude the County from choosing to seek civil redress in a court of competent jurisdiction in addition to the criminal prosecution, it being the intent of the County to have both the civil and criminal rights of prosecution in this area.
(d)
In the sound discretion of the Magistrate Court, the violator may be directed to pick up and remove from any public street or highway or public right-of-way for the distance not to exceed one mile, any solid waste or scrap tires the person has deposited and any solid waste or scrap tires deposited thereon by anyone else prior to the date of execution or sentence.
(e)
In the sound discretion of the Judge of the Magistrate Court, the violator may be directed to pick up and remove solid waste or scrap tires from any public area, private right-of-way, or with the prior permission of the legal owner or tenant in lawful possession of such property, any private property upon which it can be established by competent evidence that the person has deposited solid waste or scrap tires thereon, and all solid waste and scrap tires deposited thereon by anyone prior to the date of execution of sentence.
(f)
The Judge of the Magistrate Court may order the publication of the names of persons convicted of violating this ordinance.
2-16-164 - Severability.
Should any sentence, section, subsection, or provision of this ordinance or application of a provision of this ordinance be declared invalid or unconstitutional by any court of competent jurisdiction, such declaration shall not affect the validity of this ordinance as a whole nor any part thereof that is not specifically declared to be invalid or unconstitutional.
(#O-2003-19)
2-16-165 - Repeal of Conflicting Resolutions or Ordinances.
Be it ordained, that all conflicting resolutions, ordinances, or part of ordinances, or parts of resolutions in conflict with this ordinance are hereby repealed.
