Chapter 2-6 - OCCUPATION TAX ORDINANCE[1]
Footnotes:
--- (1) ---
Note— (Revised 8/15/96; 08/20/09; 06/18/15; 11/19/15)

ARTICLE I.

2-6-1 - Occupation Tax Required; Occupation Tax Required for Business Dealings within the Unincorporated Area of the County.
For the year 1995 and succeeding years thereafter, each person engaged in any business, trade, profession or occupation in the unincorporated area of Glynn County, Georgia, whether with a location in the unincorporated area of Glynn County, or in the case of an out-of-state business with no location in Georgia exerting substantial efforts within the State pursuant to O.C.G.A. § 48-13-7, shall pay an occupation tax for said business, trade profession or occupation; and the Occupation Tax Certificate indicating the payment of the tax shall be displayed in an conspicuous location in the place of business, if the taxpayer has a permanent business location in the unincorporated area of Glynn County, Georgia. If the taxpayer has no permanent business location in the unincorporated area of Glynn County, Georgia, such Occupation Tax Certificate shall be shown to the Occupation Tax Officer or enforcement officers or to any police officer of the Glynn County, Georgia upon his or their request.
2-6-2 - Construction of Terms; Definitions.
A.
Wherever the term "Glynn County" is used herein, such term shall be construed to mean "Glynn County, Georgia, wherever the term "County" is used herein, it shall be construed to mean "Glynn County, Georgia, excluding the incorporated area (City of Brunswick) and Jekyll Island, Georgia".
B.
As used in this ordinance, the term:
1.
Administrative Fee means a component of an occupation tax which approximates the reasonable cost of handling and processing the Occupation Tax.
2.
Business means any person, corporation, partnership, or other legal entity which exerts substantial efforts within the County, engages in, causes to be engaged in, and/or represents or holds out to the public to be engaged in any occupation or activity with the object of gain or benefit, either directly or indirectly.
3.
Business Location means the physical location of a business. This definition does not include a temporary work site which serves a single customer or project. A temporary work site which serves multiple customers is included in this definition, and any business operating at such location is subject to the requirements of this ordinance. For the purposes of this ordinance, a separate location shall exist if there is a separation of buildings of a business by the property of another, not including public streets.
Each rental residential property consisting of four or more units shall be deemed a branch establishment or separate place of business for the purpose of this ordinance when there is a representative of the owner or the owner's agent living on the premises who is authorized to transact business for such owner or owner's agent or there is a regular employee of the owner or the owner's agent working on the premises who is authorized to transact business for such owner or owner's agent.
4.
Commission means the Board of Commissioners of Glynn County, Georgia.
5.
Dominant Line means the type of business within a multiple line of business from which the greatest amount of income is derived.
6.
Employee means a person in the service of another under any contract of hire, express or implied, oral or written, where the employer has the power or right to control and direct the employee in the material details of how the work is to be performed; one who works for an employer; or a person working for salary or wages including, except for corporations, the owner or owners of the business.
7.
Engaged in Business means doing or performing of any act of selling any goods or services, or soliciting business, or offering any goods or services for sale primarily in an attempt to make a profit, including selling or performing services of the character of a wholesaler or retailer, or being involved in any of the functions performed as a manufacturer, or renting real or personal property; all of the foregoing performed either as an owner, operator or agent of any business, trade, profession, or occupation within the County.
8.
Manufacturing shall mean either directly or by contracting with others for the necessary labor or mechanical services, manufacturing for sale or commercial use any articles, substances or commodities, including, but not limited to, the following: materials upon which commercial activities have been applied, by hand or machinery, so that as a result thereof a new substance of trade or commerce is produced; the production or fabrication of special or custom-made articles; the making, fabrication, processing, refining, mixing, slaughtering, packing, aging, curing, preserving, canning, preparing and freezing of fresh foods, fruits, vegetables and meats.
9.
Nonprofit Organization means an organization which is formed for a purpose not involving pecuniary remuneration, directly or indirectly, to its shareholders or members as such. Such organizations encompass those which are truly altruistic as well as those whose aid is limited to its membership.
10.
Number of Employees shall mean the highest number of employees employed by a business, trade or profession either on a full or part-time basis during the period October 1 through December 31 of the year preceding the tax year; for first time applications, the highest number of employees anticipated in the last quarter of the tax year.
11.
Occupation Tax means a tax levied for revenue raising purposes on persons, partnerships, corporations or other entities for engaging in an occupation, profession or business.
12.
Occupation Tax Officer is the Community Development Director of Glynn County or their designee.
13.
Occupation Tax Certificate means the form issued by the Occupation Tax Officer as evidence that the business has registered and paid the occupation tax and fees due under this ordinance.
14.
Person shall be held to include sole proprietors, corporations, partnerships or any other form of business organization, but specifically excludes charitable nonprofit organizations which utilize 80 percent of their proceeds for charitable purposes.
15.
Practitioner of Profession or Occupation is one who by State law requires State licensor regulating such profession or occupation.
16.
Practitioners of Professions and Occupations shall not include a practitioner who is an employee of a business, if the business pays an occupation tax.
17.
Registration shall mean the information supplied to the Occupation Tax Officer to enable that officer to compute the Occupation License Tax and the executed form provided by the Occupation Tax Officer for that purpose.
18.
Regulatory Fees means payments, whether designated as license fees, permit fees or by another name, which are required by a local government as an exercise of its police power and as a part of or as an aid to regulation of an occupation, profession or business. The amount of a regulatory fee shall approximate the reasonable cost of the actual regulatory activity performed by the County. A regulatory fee may not include an administrative fee. Development impact fees as defined by Paragraph 8 of O.C.G.A. § 36-71-2, Capital Tapping Fees, Tapping Fees or other costs or conditions of zoning or land development are not regulatory fees.
19.
Retailer means a person who sells to consumers or any other person for any purpose, other than for resale, any tangible personal property.
20.
Services means the accommodating or performing a duty or work by a person utilizing time or talents for direct or indirect remuneration.
21.
Wholesaler shall mean a person who sells to jobbers or to persons, other than consumers, any tangible personal property.
(#O-2015-22)
2-6-3 - Administrative and Regulatory Fee Structure.
A.
A non-prorated, non-refundable administrative fee of $42.00 shall be required on all business and occupation tax accounts for the initial start-up, renewal, or reopening of those accounts.
B.
A regulatory fee will only be imposed as provided under O.C.G.A. § 48-13-9 on those applicable businesses. A regulatory fee may not include an administrative fee.
(#O-2015-07)
2-6-4 - Occupation Tax Levied; Restrictions; Refunds.
modified
(A)
(1)
An occupation tax shall be levied upon those businesses and practitioners of professions and occupations with one or more locations or offices within the unincorporated area of the County and upon the applicable out-of-state businesses with no location or office in Georgia pursuant to O.C.G.A. § 48-13-7 based upon the number of employees of the business or practitioner.
(2)
The number of employees is computed on a full-time position basis or full-time position equivalent basis, provided that for purposes of this computation an employee who works 40 hours or more weekly shall be considered a full-time employee and that the average weekly hours of employees who work less than 40 hours weekly shall be added and such sum shall be divided by 40 to produce full-time position equivalents.
(B)
Occupation Tax Schedule.
(1)
The occupation tax levied shall be based upon the following tax table.
EXPAND
TAX TABLE
Bracket # Number of Employees Tax Amount
1 0—4 $ 75.00
2 5—9 $112.50
3 10—19 $150.00
4 20—49 $225.00
5 50—99 $300.00
6 100—249 $375.00
7 250 and over $750.00
  (C)
(1)
No business or practitioner shall be required to pay more than one occupation tax for each of its locations.
(2)
The County shall not require an occupation tax on those employees that were taxed by occupation tax in other localities or states, provided that those businesses were taxed in full compliance with O.C.G.A. §§ 48-13-7 and 48-13-14. Upon request by any County official, including but not limited to personnel of the Occupation Tax Division, Community Development and Building Inspection Department, the operator of a business shall be required to provide proof that the business was taxed in another locality or state.
(3)
An Occupation tax shall not be levied in any manner except as described in this Section.
(D)
Refunds.
(1)
A business, trade, profession or occupation may apply for a partial refund of its previously paid occupation tax when the business ceases to conduct business in the unincorporated area of Glynn County. A business with multiple locations may apply for a refund when it closes one or more of its locations or offices, and no business dealings are conducted in the unincorporated area of Glynn County from the closed location(s) or office(s). The previously paid occupation tax shall be prorated from the date certified in the written request for a refund and calculated pursuant to subparagraph (3), below.
(2)
A written request for a refund shall be submitted to the Occupation Tax Officer within six months after the business, trade, profession or occupation ceases to exist as a legal entity doing business in Glynn County, and the request shall certify the date the business ceased to exist. If one or more locations or offices are still in operation and conducting business in Glynn County, then the request for a refund shall certify the date the location(s) or office(s) for which the occupation tax was paid ceased to conduct business in Glynn County.
(3)
The occupation tax levied and paid under Section 2-6-9 herein shall be subject to a prorated refund based on the number of full months left in the year for which the Occupation Tax Certificate was issued upon written request as provided herein.
(4)
Administrative and regulatory fees and any penalties paid on behalf of a business, trade, profession or occupation shall not be subject to a refund.
(#O-2015-07; #O-2015-22; Ord. No. O-2023-03 , § I, 5/4/2023)
2-6-5 - Paying Occupation Tax of Business with No Location in Georgia.
For out-of-state businesses with no location in Georgia, occupation taxes apply to the employees of the business which are reasonably attributed to sales or services in the State of Georgia.
The registration and assessment of an occupation tax is hereby imposed on those businesses and practitioners of professions with no location or office in the State of Georgia if the business' largest dollar volume of business in Georgia is in the County and the business or practitioner:
1.
Has one or more employees or agents who exert substantial efforts within the jurisdiction of the County for the purpose of soliciting business or serving customers or clients; or
2.
Owns personal or real property which generates income and which is located within the jurisdiction of the County.
2-6-6 - Dominant Line of Business to be Identified on Business Registration.
The business registration of each business operated in the County shall identify the dominant line of business that the business conducts.
2-6-7 - The Number of Businesses Considered Operating in the County.
Where a person conducts business at more than one fixed location, each location or place shall be considered a separate business for the purpose of occupation tax.
2-6-8 - Professionals as Classified in O.C.G.A. § 48-13-9(c).
For all years including and following the tax year 2016, Section 2-6-8 shall apply to the occupation tax imposed on the businesses, practitioners of professions, and occupations listed below.
A.
Classification. The businesses, practitioners of professions, and as described in O.C.G.A. § § 48-13-9(c) are as follows:
(1)
Lawyers;
(2)
Physicians;
(3)
Osteopaths;
(4)
Chiropractors;
(5)
Podiatrists;
(6)
Dentists;
(7)
Optometrists;
(8)
Psychologists;
(9)
Veterinarians;
(10)
Landscape architects;
(11)
Land surveyors;
(12)
Practitioners of physiotherapy;
(13)
Public accountants;
(14)
Embalmers;
(15)
Funeral directors;
(16)
Civil, mechanical, hydraulic or electrical engineers;
(17)
Architects;
(18)
Marriage and family therapists, social workers and professional counselors;
(19)
Dealers of motor vehicles, as defined in paragraph (1) of O.C.G.A. § 10-1-622;
(20)
Owners or operators of bona fide coin operated amusement machines, as defined in O.C.G.A. § 48-17-1 and owners or operators of businesses where bona fide coin operated amusement machines are available for commercial use and play by the public, provided that such amusement machines have affixed current stickers showing payment of annual permit fees, in accordance with O.C.G.A. § 48-17-9;
(21)
Merchants or dealers as defined in O.C.G.A. § 48-5-354 as to their deliveries to businesses and practitioners of professions and occupations in areas zoned for commercial use; and
(22)
Any other business, profession, or occupation for which state licensure or registration is required by state law, unless the state law regulating such business, profession, or occupation specifically allows for regulation by local governments.
B.
An occupation tax is imposed on the businesses, practitioners of professions, and occupations set forth in subsection A, subpart (1) through (22) of this Section. Said businesses, practitioners of professions, and occupations shall elect as their entire occupation tax one of the following:
(1)
The occupation tax based on number of employees.
(2)
A fee of $400.00 per practitioner who is licensed to provide the service, such tax to be paid at the practitioner's office or location. The per-practitioner fee shall include all persons in the business that qualify as a practitioner under the State's regulatory guidelines and framework.
C.
Any other provision of this ordinance to the contrary notwithstanding, the following special provisions shall apply to the businesses, practitioners of professions, and occupations set forth in subsection A, subpart (1) through (22) of this section:
(1)
Payment of the tax levied by this ordinance shall not be a precondition to the practice of these professions;
(2)
These professions shall not be required to display an Occupation Tax Certificate as otherwise required in this ordinance;
(3)
These professions shall not be subject to any criminal penalties for violating the terms of this ordinance; and
(4)
These professions may be asked to provide information as to the location where they may be served with notices in support of the enforcement of this ordinance. Upon failure or refusal to do so, Glynn County shall direct notices to the address listed with the appropriate state licensing agency.
(#O-2015-22)
2-6-9 - Practitioners Exclusively Practicing for the Government.
Any practitioner whose office is maintained by and who is employed in practice exclusively by the United States, the State, a municipality or county of the State, instrumentalities of the United States, the State or municipality or county of the State, shall not be required to register or pay an occupation tax for that practice.
2-6-10 - Purpose and Scope of Tax.
The tax levied herein is for revenue purposes only and is not for regulatory purposes, nor is the payment of the tax made a condition precedent to the practice of any such profession, trade or calling. The occupation tax applies to those businesses and occupations which are covered by the provisions of O.C.G.A. §§ 48-13-5 to 48-13-26. All other applicable businesses and occupations are taxed by the local government pursuant to the pertinent general law and/or local ordinance.
2-6-11 - When Tax Due and Payable; Effect of Transacting Business when Tax Delinquent.
modified
A.
Each such occupation tax shall be for the calendar year 1995 and succeeding calendar years thereafter unless otherwise specifically provided. Registration shall be made and occupation tax shall be payable January 1 of each year and shall be delinquent if not paid by February 1 of each year and shall be subject to penalties for delinquency as prescribed in this ordinance. On any new profession, trade or calling begun in the County in 1995 or succeeding years thereafter, the registration and tax shall be delinquent if not obtained immediately upon beginning business and a ten percent penalty shall be imposed if not paid within 30 days of the commencement of the business. The tax registration herein provided for shall be received by the Occupation Tax Officer. If any person, firm, or corporation whose duty it is to file a registration shall, after said registration or occupation tax becomes delinquent, transact, or offer to transact, in the County, any of the kind of business, profession, trade or calling in this ordinance specified without having first filed said registration and paid any applicable occupation tax, such offender shall, in addition to remedies provided herein, upon conviction by the Judge of Magistrate Court, be punished as provided in Section 2-6-18 of this ordinance.
B.
In addition to the above remedies, the Business Tax Officer may proceed to collect in the same manner as provided by law for tax executions.
( Ord. No. O-2023-03 , § II, 5/4/2023)
2-6-12 - Allocation of Employees of Businesses with Multiple Intrastate or Interstate Locations.
modified
For those businesses who have multiple locations inside and outside of the County where the number of employees can be allocated to each location, the number of employees used to determine the occupation tax assessed will be those employees attributed to each County location. In the case where the number of employees attributed locally cannot be determined in those businesses with multiple locations, the total number of employees will be divided by the total number of locations in the County and elsewhere and allotted to those locations. Upon request, the business or practitioner with a location or office situated in more than one jurisdiction, shall provide to the County the following:
1.
Information necessary to allocate the number of employees of the business or practitioner; and
2.
Information relating to the allocation of the business' or practitioner's number of employees by other local governments.
( Ord. No. O-2023-03 , § III, 5/4/2023)
2-6-13 - Exemption on Grounds that Business Operated for Charitable Purpose.
No business on which a business registration is required or occupation tax is levied by this ordinance shall be exempt for said registration or tax on the ground that such business is operated for a charitable purpose, unless 80 percent or more of the entire proceeds from said business are devoted to such purpose.
2-6-14 - Evidence of Compliance with State Law or Regulation Required if Applicable; Evidence of Compliance to be Displayed.
A.
Each person who is licensed under Title 43 of the State license examining boards shall provide evidence of proper and current state licensor before the County registration may be filed.
B.
Each person who is licensed by the state shall post the state license in a conspicuous place in the licensee's place of business and shall keep the license there at all times while the license remains valid.
2-6-15 - Evidence of Qualification Required if Applicable.
A.
Any business required to obtain health permits, bonds, certificate of qualification, certificates of competency or any other regulatory matter shall first, before the County business registration is filed, show evidence that such requirements have been met.
B.
Any business required to submit an annual application for continuance of that business shall do so before the registration is filed.
2-6-16 - Liability of Officers and Agents; Registration Required; Failure to Obtain.
A.
All persons subject to the occupation taxes provided in this ordinance shall be required to register the said business as prescribed in this ordinance, and in default thereof the officer or agent soliciting for or representing such persons shall be subject to the same penalty as other persons who fail to obtain a certificate. Every person commencing business in the County after January 1 of each year shall likewise register as herein provided before commencing the same; and any person transacting, or offering to transact in the County, any of the kinds of business, trade, profession or occupation without first having registered, shall be subject to penalties provided herein and upon conviction, be punished as provided in Section 2-6-18 of this Chapter.
B.
It shall be unlawful for the owner, proprietor, manager executive officer or employee of any business, coming within the provisions of this ordinance, to make a false registration for such business, or to give or file, or direct the giving or filing, of any false information with respect to the occupation tax due under the provisions of this ordinance or upon which any occupation tax due under the provisions of this ordinance is based.
2-6-17 - When Registration and Tax Due and Payable; Effect of Transacting Business when Tax Delinquent.
modified
A.
Registration shall be for the calendar year 1995 and each succeeding calendar year thereafter unless otherwise specifically provided. There is hereby imposed a penalty and interest upon each business which fails to register and pay all tax and fees as provided herein by February 1 of each year. Interest shall accrue on all unpaid taxes assessed under this Chapter from the date the taxes shall be due and payable at a rate of 1 percent of the occupation tax for each month or fraction thereof of delinquency. Should the occupation tax imposed by this Section remain due and unpaid for 90 days from the due date of the tax, the person liable for the tax shall be subject to and shall pay a penalty often percent of the occupation tax determined to be due and owing under the provisions of this Chapter. Said penalty and interest shall be in addition to all other penalties, civil and criminal herein provided; and may be collected by the remedies herein provided for collection of the occupation tax, and shall have the same lien and priority as the occupation tax to which the penalty is applied.
B.
The registration herein provided for shall be received by the Occupation Tax Officer, and if any person, firm or corporation whose duty it is to register shall, after said occupation tax becomes delinquent, transact or offer to transact, in the County, any of the kind or kinds of business, trade, profession or occupation without having first registered, such offender shall be subject to the penalties provided herein, and upon conviction by the Judge of Magistrate Court, be punished as provided in Section 2-6-18 of this Chapter.
( Ord. No. O-2023-03 , § IV, 5/4/2023)
2-6-18 - Penalty of Ordinance Violation.
Any person violating the terms of this provision shall be guilty of an ordinance violation and shall be required to register and pay any fees and occupation taxes due which is required in this ordinance and upon conviction by or guilty or no lo contender plea to the Magistrate Court Judge pay a fine in the amount of $200.00 for the first violation hereof, and the amount of $400.00 for any subsequent violation hereof by the same person, partnership, or corporation, except that any person whose qualifications to practice their profession is determined by the general laws of the State of Georgia and who fails to pay an occupation tax as provided in this ordinance shall only be subject to the provisions of Section 2-6-11(B) of this Chapter.
2-6-19 - Occupation Tax Officer—Occupation Tax Inspector.
modified
The Occupation Tax Officer and his duly designated officers and inspectors or his successors shall be classified as Magistrate Court Constables with full subpoena and arresting powers in conjunction with any violation pertaining to the Occupation Tax Ordinance for 1995 (this Chapter) and succeeding years thereafter. For purposes of this ordinance, the Code Enforcement Division and its employees, officers, and inspectors shall be duly designated officers of the Occupation Tax Officer and shall be classified as Magistrate Court Constables with full subpoena and arresting powers as detailed above.
The Occupation Tax Officer shall administer and enforce the provisions of this ordinance for the levy, assessment and collection and penalties imposed herein.
In carrying out its responsibilities hereunder, the Occupation Tax Officer shall have the following duties:
A.
To prepare and provide the necessary forms for registration of a business, and for the submission of required information as may be necessary to properly administer and enforce the provisions of the ordinance;
B.
To issue to each person an Occupation Tax Certificate within a reasonable time after the payment of the occupation tax assessed and levied in this ordinance; provided, however, where under other ordinances of the County, permits, certifications, and compliance with the enumerated conditions are required for the operation of the business, the Occupation Tax Officer shall not issue said certificate until the applicant exhibits to the Occupation Tax Officer such obtained permits, certifications and compliance; and
C.
To audit periodically, and when deemed necessary by the Occupation Tax Officer, the books and records of the businesses subject to the provisions of this ordinance, and to require the submission of such additional information as may be necessary in order to correctly determine the amount of the occupation tax due and to ensure the collection of same.
( Ord. No. O-2023-03 , § V, 5/4/2023)
2-6-20 - Businesses Not Covered by this Ordinance.
The following businesses are not covered by the provisions of this Chapter but may be assessed an occupation tax or other type of tax or fee pursuant to the provisions of other general laws of the State of Georgia or by act of local law:
1.
Those businesses regulated by the Georgia Public Service Commission.
2.
Those electrical service businesses organized under O.C.G.A. Tit. 46 ch. 3.
3.
Any farm operation for the production from or on the land of agricultural products, but not including agribusiness.
4.
Cooperative marketing associations governed by O.C.G.A. § 2-10-105.
5.
Insurance companies governed by O.C.G.A. § 33-8-8.
6.
Motor common carriers governed by O.C.G.A. § 40-1-100 et seq.
7.
Those businesses governed by O.C.G.A. § 48-5-355. (Businesses that purchase carload lots of guano, meats, meal, flour, bran, cottonseed, or cottonseed meal and hulls.)
8.
Agricultural products and livestock raised in the State of Georgia governed by O.C.G.A. § 48-5-356.
9.
Depository financial institutions governed by O.C.G.A. § 48-6-93.
10.
Facilities operated by a charitable trust governed by O.C.G.A. § 48-13-55.
11.
Established churches, religious, charitable, civic and fraternal organizations chartered or operated as nonprofit organizations and which are not engaged in daily selling of goods or services to the public in competition with person taxed by virtue of the provisions of this ordinance.
12.
Any person engaging in casual or isolated activity or commercial transactions, where such activity or transactions involve personal assets and are not an occupation for the individual.
a.
In regard to yard/garage sales, this exemption shall apply to persons or non-profit organizations conducting such sales at a private residence or at a commercial location with an occupancy permit and with permission of the property owner, not exceeding four events per year.
b.
In regard to the rental of personally owned residences, this exemption shall apply to persons renting a maximum of five residences within the State.
c.
In regard to activities of minors, this exemption shall apply if the activity is seasonal or does not generate in excess of $5,000.00 per year. The County may require any business claiming not to be covered by the provisions of this ordinance to provide specific and detailed evidence showing such non-coverage.
2-6-21 - Occupation Tax Inapplicable Where Prohibited by Law or Provided for Pursuant to other Existing Law.
This occupation tax is not levied upon any part of a business where such levy is prohibited or exempted by the laws of Georgia or of the United States.
2-6-22 - Occupation Taxes Levied on Business to be Transacted During Calendar Year; Filing of Returns Showing Number of Employees during Preceding Calendar Year.
A.
All occupation taxes levied by this Chapter are levied on the "Number of Employees".
B.
The owner, proprietor, manager or secretary officer of the business subject to said occupation tax for the current calendar year shall, at the end of the preceding year, and on or before April 1 of the current calendar year, file with the Occupation Tax Officer, on a form furnished by the said Officer, a signed return setting forth the highest number of employees of such business for the last quarter of the preceding calendar year.
C.
Where a business subject to the occupation tax for the calendar year has been conducted for less than the entire last quarter of the preceding year, the highest number of employees anticipated in the last quarter of the tax year for which the taxes are paid.
2-6-23 - When Occupation Tax Due and Payable, Display of Occupation Tax Certificate.
modified
A.
The amount of occupation tax shall be payable at the office of the Glynn County Community Development Department, on January 1 each year and delinquent if not paid on or before February 1.
B.
The Occupation Tax Certificate issued by the Occupation Tax Officer shall be displayed at the business in a location where it can be seen by the public at all times.
( Ord. No. O-2023-03 , § VI, 5/4/2023)
2-6-24 - Payment of Occupation Tax by Newly Established Businesses.
In case of a business subject to occupation tax for a calendar year, which was not conducted for any period of time in the unincorporated area of the County in the preceding year, the owner, proprietor, manager or executive officer of the business liable for occupation tax shall estimate the highest number of employees in the last quarter of the calendar year for which the tax is paid and such tax shall be paid as provided in Section 2-6-11.
Businesses beginning operation after July 1 of any calendar year shall pay the Administrative Fee and a pro-rated occupation tax of 50 percent of the Occupation tax which would be due on an annual basis.
2-6-25 - More than One Place of Business.
Where a business is operated at more than one place, said business shall be required to obtain the necessary registration for each location, report the number of employees of each location, and pay an administrative fee and an occupation tax on each location.
2-6-26 - Returns Confidential.
Except in the case of judicial proceedings or other proceedings necessary to collect the occupation tax hereby levied, it shall be unlawful for any officer, employee, agent or clerk of the County or any other person to divulge or make known in any manner any information provided for the purpose of determining the amount of occupation tax required under this ordinance. Such information shall be confidential and open only to the officials, employees, agents or clerks of the County using said returns for the purpose of this occupation tax to levy and collect the tax. Independent auditors or bookkeepers employed by the County shall be classed as "agents of the County". Nothing herein shall be construed to prohibit the publication by the County officials of statistics, so classified as to prevent the identification of particular reports or returns and items thereof, or information such as name, location, ownership and line of business with no association made to number of employees or amount of tax paid, or providing to or the inspection of the records by duly qualified employees of the tax departments of the State of Georgia or of the United States, and other local governments. Information provided by a business or practitioner may be disclosed to the governing authority of another local government for tax purposes.
2-6-27 - Inspection of Books and Records.
In any case the Occupation Tax Officer of the County, through his officers, agents, employees or representatives, may inspect the books of the business for which the returns are made. The Occupation Tax Officer and/or the Director of the Community Development Department or their designees shall have the right to inspect the books or records for the business of which the return was made in the County, and upon demand of the Occupation Tax Officer and/or the Director of the Community Development Department or their designees such books or records shall be made available for inspection by a representative of the County within 30 days. Failure to submit such books or records within 30 days shall be grounds for revocation of the Occupation Tax Certificate currently existing to do business in the County. Adequate records shall be kept in Glynn County, Georgia, for examination by the Occupation Tax Officer and/or the director of the Community Development Department or their designees at their discretion. If, after examination of the books or records, it is determined that a deficiency occurs as a result of under-reporting, a penalty of ten percent of the deficiency and an additional one percent of the deficiency for each month or fraction thereof that the deficiency was due and unpaid shall be assessed.
2-6-28 - Tax Certificate to be Revoked for Failure to Pay Tax, File Returns, Permit Inspection of Books.
Except for a person whose qualifications to practice their profession is determined by the general laws of the State of Georgia, the failure of any business to pay said occupation tax or any part thereof before it becomes delinquent or upon failure to permit inspection of its books as above provided, any Occupation Tax Certificate granted by the County under this Chapter permitting the owner of said business to do business in the County for the current year shall be, ipso facto, revoked. No new Occupation Tax Certificate shall be granted by the County for the operation of a business for which any part of the occupation tax herein provided for is at that time unpaid, or to a person who has failed to submit adequate records as requested by the Occupation Tax Officer in accordance with provisions found in Section 2-6-22.
2-6-29 - Effect of Failure to Comply with Ordinance Provisions; Continuing in Business After Tax Certificate Revocation.
Any person, their manager, agent or employee, who does business in the County after the Occupation Tax Certificate has been revoked as above; and any person, their manager, agent or employee who refuses to permit an inspection of books in their charge when the officer(s), agent(s), employee(s) or representative(s) of the County request such inspection, during business hours, for the purpose of determining the accuracy of the information required by this ordinance, shall be subject to penalties provided in Section 2-6-18 of this Chapter.
2-6-30 - Lien Taken for Delinquent Occupation Tax.
In addition to the other remedies herein provided for the collection of the occupation tax herein levied, the Occupation Tax Officer of the County, upon any tax becoming delinquent and remaining unpaid, shall issue execution for the correct amount of said tax against the person liable for said tax, which execution shall bear interest at the rate of one percent per month from the date when such tax becomes delinquent, and the lien shall cover the property of the person liable for said tax, all as provided by the Ordinances of the County and the laws of Georgia. The lien of said occupation tax shall become fixed on and date from the time when such tax becomes delinquent. The execution shall be levied by the Occupation Tax Officer of the County upon the property of the person liable for said tax, and sufficient property shall be advertised and sold to pay the amount of said execution with interest and costs. All other proceedings in relation thereto shall be had as is provided by the Ordinances the County and the laws of Georgia, and the defendant in said execution shall have rights of defense, by affidavit of illegality and otherwise, which are provided by applicable laws of Georgia in regard to tax executions. When a nulla bona entry has been entered by proper authority upon an execution issued by the Occupation Tax Officer against any person defaulting on the occupation tax, the person against whom the entry was made shall not be allowed or entitled to have or collect any fees or charges whatsoever for services rendered after the entry of the nulla bona. If, at any time after the entry of nulla bona has been made, the person against whom the execution issues pays the tax in full together with all interest, penalties and costs accrued on the tax, the person may collect any fees and charges due the person as though the person had never defaulted in the payment of the taxes.
2-6-31 - Amendment, Repeal of Provision.
This ordinance shall be subject to amendment or repeal, in whole or in part, at any time and no such amendment or repeal shall be construed to deny the right of the Commission to assess and collect any of the taxes or other charges prescribed. Said amendment may increase or lower the amounts and tax rates of any occupation and may change the classification thereof. The payment of any occupation tax provided for shall not be construed as prohibiting the levy or collection by the County of additional occupation taxes upon the same person, property or business.
2-6-32 - Applications of Provisions to Prior Ordinance.
This ordinance does not repeal or affect the force of any part of any ordinance heretofore passed where taxes levied under such prior ordinance have not been paid in full. So much and such parts of Ordinances heretofore and hereinafter passed as provided for the issuing and enforcing of execution for any tax or assessment required by such ordinances, or that imposed fines or penalties for the nonpayment of such tax, or for failure to pay regulatory fees provided for in said ordinance or ordinances, or failure to comply with any other provisions thereof, shall continue and remain in force until such tax, regulatory fee or assessment shall be fully paid.
2-6-33 - Enforcement of Provision.
It is hereby made the duty of the Occupation Tax Officer, the Police Department, and the Code Enforcement Division to see that the provisions of this ordinance relating to occupation taxes are obeyed; and to summon all violators of the same to appear before the Magistrate Court. It is hereby made the further duty of the Occupation Tax Officer, the Chief of Police, and the Code Enforcement Division, their designees and assistants, to inspect all Tax Occupation Certificates issued by the County, as often as in their judgment it may seem necessary to determine whether the certificate held is the proper one for the business sought to be transacted thereunder. The Occupation Tax Officer, the Police Department, and the Code Enforcement Division are authorized to enforce the provisions of this ordinance.
2-6-34 - Provisions to Remain in Full Force and Effect Until Changed by the Glynn County Board of Commissioners.
This ordinance shall remain in full force and effect until changed by an amendment adopted by the Glynn County Board of Commissioners. All provisions hereto relating to any form of tax herein levied shall remain in full force and effect until such taxes have been paid in full.
2-6-35 - Requirement of Public Hearing Before Tax Increase.
After January 1, 1996, the Commission shall conduct at least one public hearing before adopting any ordinance or resolution which will increase the rate of occupation tax as set forth in this ordinance.
2-6-36 - Option to Establish Exemption or Reduction in Occupation Tax.
The Commission may by subsequent Ordinance or Resolution provide for an exemption or reduction in occupation tax to one or more types of businesses or practitioners of occupations or professions as part of a plan for economic development or attracting or encouraging selected types of businesses or practitioners of selected occupations or professions. Such exemptions or reductions in occupation tax shall not be arbitrary or capricious.
2-6-37 - Conflicts Between Specific and General Provisions.
Where there is an apparent conflict in this ordinance between specific and general provisions, it is the intention hereof that the specific shall control.
2-6-38 - Occupation Tax Certificate not Transferable.
An Occupation Tax Certificate shall not be transferable and a transfer of ownership shall be considered in the same light as the termination of such business and the establishment of a new business. Transfer of one half or less of the ownership interest in any business shall not be considered a transfer of ownership.
2-6-39 - Duty to Keep Information Current.
Any person required by this ordinance to register his or her business shall notify the Occupation Tax Officer in writing within 30 days of the following changes:
A.
Any change of address of the business, in which case the same occupation tax certificate shall be valid at the new location provided that approval from the Planning and Zoning Department is received for the new location in advance of the change;
B.
Any change of ownership, in which case the transfer shall be treated as the termination of one business and the establishment of a new business for the purpose of this ordinance;
C.
The termination of any business.
2-6-40 - Compliance with Other Ordinances and Laws.
A.
All businesses are required to comply with the provisions of all ordinances of the County and other laws and the issuance of a Occupation Tax Certificate to any business pursuant to this ordinance shall not authorize that business to engage in or carry on business or to perform any other activity in violation of state or federal law or regulations and other Ordinances of Glynn County nor shall it relieve that business from obtaining any certificate or permit required by the provision of other laws or ordinances.
2-6-41 - Evidence of Personal Property Ad Valorem Tax Payment Required.
It shall be the duty of the Glynn County Tax Commissioner to produce to the Occupation Tax Officer a list of businesses and practitioners subject to this Occupation Tax Ordinance that are delinquent in paying any personal property ad valorem taxes due and payable to the county. The list shall be produced by December 15 of each year. Businesses and practitioners on the list shall first, before the issuance of an Occupation Tax Certificate, show evidence that all personal property ad valorem taxes due and payable to the county have been paid.
( Ord. No. O-2022-09 , § I, 10/20/2022)
2-6-42—2-6-49 - Reserved.
2-6-50 - Festivals.
modified
A.
General. The organizer or owner of a festival may register as one business, pay one occupation tax and secure one occupation tax certificate which will allow all vendors at such festival to operate their business for the duration of that festival. For purposes of this section, a festival is defined as an organized event at which a number of merchants and service providers engage in business operations at a single location in the unincorporated portion of Glynn County for a period of time not to exceed 30 consecutive calendar days.
B.
Rate of Tax. The occupation tax for a festival is $150.00 for festivals with up to 50 merchants and service providers, $375.00 for festivals with from 51 to 100 merchants and service providers and $600.00 for festivals with more than 100 merchants and service providers. Festivals are responsible for payment of Administrative and Regulatory Fees as set forth in Section 2-6-3 as if it were a single business.
C.
Exemptions. A festival which is owned or organized by a non-profit organization (as defined in Section 2-6-2(B)(9), operated for a charitable purpose as set forth in Section 2-6-13 shall be exempt from payment of an occupation tax, but not from registration as a non-profit festival, if all proceeds deducting only the expenses of the festival and the actual cost of goods sold and services provided from all business activities at the festival are devoted to a public, charitable, educational, literary, fraternal, religious purpose or other purpose exempted under the laws of the state of Georgia.
An event is a festival and not a casual or isolated activity exempt under Section 2-6-20 (13) if more than five people participate in the event and the owner or organizer intends to secure any payment for owning or organizing the event or if any merchant or service provider participating therein has earned in the preceding year or anticipates earning this year more than $5,000.00 net income from the business activity that person will engage in during the festival.
This ordinance shall be effective upon passage.
(O-1995-03; #O-2015-07; Ord. No. O-2023-03 , § VII, 5/4/2023)
ARTICLE II.
All ordinances and parts of ordinances in conflict herewith are hereby repealed. Specifically, Sections 2-6-1 through 2-6-30 and Sections 2-6-32 through 2-6-55 of the Code of Ordinances, Glynn County, Georgia are repealed. Sections 2-6-56 through 2-6-74 and Section 2-6-31 are renumbered to a new chapter 6.5 retaining their section designations so that those Sections shall be Sections 2-6.5-56 through 2-6.5-74 and 2-6.5-31 respectively. The new Chapter 6.5 shall be called "Business Ordinance."
ARTICLE III.
If any portion of this ordinance shall be held to be invalid or unconstitutional, such invalidity or unconstitutionality shall not affect or impair the remaining portions unless it clearly appears that such other parts are wholly and necessarily dependent upon the part held to be invalid or unconstitutional.
ARTICLE IV.
The ordinance is enacted as an amendment to ordinance, Chapter 2-6 of the Code of Ordinances of the Glynn County, Georgia.
ARTICLE V.
The effective date of this ordinance shall be upon approval by the Glynn County Board of Commissioners or January 1, 1995, whichever is the latter date.
