ARTICLE III. - FAIR HOUSING[3]

Footnotes:
--- (3) ---
State Law reference— Discrimination in housing accommodations, Ga. Code Ann., § 8-3-200 et seq.

Sec. 12-160. - Definitions.
For the purposes of this article, the following definitions shall apply:
Discriminatory housing practice: Any act which is described under sections 12-169—12-171 of this article.
Dwelling: Any improved property, including a mobile home unit, which is used or occupied, or is intended, arranged or designed to be used or occupied as a home or residence.
Family: Includes a single individual.
Person: One or more individuals, corporations, partnerships, associations, labor organizations, legal representatives, mutual companies, joint-stock companies, trusts, unincorporated organizations, trustees, trustees in bankruptcy and receivers.
To rent: Includes to lease, to sub-lease, to let and otherwise to grant for a consideration the right to occupy premises not owned by the occupant.
(Ord. of 9-5-78, § II)
State Law reference— Definitions relating to discrimination in housing accommodations, Ga. Code Ann., § 8-3-201.
Sec. 12-161. - Policy.
It is the policy of the city that no person shall be discriminated against in the sale or rental of housing on the basis of race, sex, age or national origin.
(Ord. of 9-5-78, § I)
State Law reference— Similar provisions, Ga. Code Ann., § 8-3-200.
Sec. 12-162. - Exceptions—Generally.
Nothing in this article shall apply to:
(1)
Any single house sold or rented by an owner:
a.
Provided, that such private individual owner does not own more than three (3) such single-family houses at any one time;
b.
Further provided that in the case of a sale of any such single-family house by a private individual owner not residing in such house at the time of such sale or who was not the most recent resident of such house prior to such sale, the exemption granted by this subsection shall apply only with respect to one such sale within any twenty-four (24) month period;
c.
Provided further, that such bona fide private individual owner does not own any interest in, nor is there owned or reserved on his behalf, under any express or voluntary agreement, title to or any right to all or a portion of the proceeds from the sale or rental of more than three (3) such single-family houses at any one time;
d.
Provided further, the sale or rental of any such single-family house shall be exempt from the application of this article only if such house is sold or rented:
1.
Without the use in any manner of the sales or rental facilities or the sales or rental services of any real estate broker, agent or salesman, or of such facilities or services of any person in the business of selling or renting dwellings, or of any employee or agent of any such broker, agent, salesman or persons, and
2.
Without the publication, posting or mailing, after notice, of any advertisement or written notice in violation of section 12-171(3) of this article; but nothing in this provision shall prohibit the use of attorneys, escrow agents, abstractors, title companies and other professional assistance as necessary to perfect the transfer of title, or
(2)
Rooms or units in dwellings containing living quarters occupied or intended to be occupied by no more than four (4) families living independently of each other, if the owner actually maintains and occupies one of such living quarters as his residence.
(Ord. of 9-5-78, § III)
State Law reference— Exemptions from housing discrimination law, Ga. Code Ann., § 8-3-206.
Sec. 12-163. - Same—Religious organizations, private clubs, etc.
Nothing in this article shall prohibit a religious organization, association or society, or any nonprofit institution or organization operated, supervised or controlled by or in conjunction with a religious organization, association or society, from limiting the sale, rental or occupancy of dwellings which it owns or operates for other than a commercial purpose to persons of the same religion, or from giving preference to such persons, unless membership in such religion is restricted on account of race, color, sex or national origin. Nor shall anything in this article prohibit a private club not in fact open to the public, which as an incident to its primary purpose or purposes provides lodgings which it owns or operates for other than a commercial purpose, from limiting the rental or occupancy of such lodgings to its members or from giving preference to its members.
(Ord. of 9-5-78, § III)
Sec. 12-164. - Same—Definition.
For the purposes of sections 12-162 and 12-163, a person shall be deemed to be in the business of selling or renting dwellings if:
(1)
He has, within the preceding twelve (12) months, participated as a principal in three (3) or more transactions involving the sale or rental of any dwellings or any interest therein, or
(2)
He has, within the preceding twelve (12) months, participated as agent other than in the sale of his own personal residence in two (2) or more transactions involving the sale or rental of any dwelling or any interest therein, or
(3)
He is the owner of any dwelling designed or intended for occupancy by or occupied by five (5) or more families.
(Ord. of 9-5-78, § III)
State Law reference— "Housing accommodation" defined, Ga. Code Ann., § 8-3-201.
Sec. 12-165. - Administration.
It shall be the responsibility of the mayor to enforce and administer this article.
(Ord. of 9-5-78, § VII)
Cross reference— Administration, ch. 2.
Sec. 12-166. - Delegation of functions.
The mayor may delegate any of his functions to the building inspector or other individuals.
(Ord. of 9-5-78, § VII)
Sec. 12-167. - Complaints.
The mayor shall investigate any complaints arising under this article and shall present his findings within thirty (30) days to the recorder's court.
(Ord. of 9-5-78, § VII)
Sec. 12-168. - Appeals.
Within a thirty (30) day period, any person convicted of having violated this article, may appeal the finding of the recorder's court before the city council, provided that a request for appeal is presented in writing describing the specific grounds upon which the appeal is based.
(Ord. of 9-5-78, § VII)
Sec. 12-169. - Discrimination in the provision of brokerage services.
It shall be unlawful for any person to deny to any real estate broker or salesperson access to or membership or participation in any multiple-listing service, real estate broker's organization or other service, organization or facility relating to the business of selling or renting dwellings, or to discriminate against such person in the terms or conditions of such access, membership or participation because of race, color, sex, religion or national origin.
(Ord. of 9-5-78, § VI)
State Law reference— Similar provisions, Ga. Code Ann., § 8-3-202.
Sec. 12-170. - Discrimination in the finance of housing.
It shall be unlawful for any bank, building and loan association, insurance company or other corporation, association, firm or enterprise whose business consists in whole or in part in the making of commercial real estate loans to deny to any person applying therefor casualty or mortgage insurance coverage or a loan or other financial assistance for the purpose of purchasing, constructing, improving, repairing or maintaining a dwelling, or to discriminate against such person, directly or indirectly, in the fixing of the terms of coverage or cost of said insurance or the amount, interest rate, duration or other terms or conditions of such loan or other financial assistance, because of the race, color, sex, religion or national origin of such person or of any person associated with such person in connection with such application for insurance or loan or other financial assistance, or of the present or prospective owners, lessees, tenants or occupants of the dwellings in the relative area in which such dwelling is located. Provided, that nothing contained in this section shall impair the scope or effectiveness of the exceptions contained in sections 12-162—12-164 of this article.
(Ord. of 9-5-78, § V)
State Law reference— Similar provisions, Ga. Code Ann., § 8-3-206.
Sec. 12-171. - Discrimination in the sale or rental of housing.
As made applicable by this article, it shall be unlawful for any person:
(1)
To refuse to sell, purchase, rent or lease or to otherwise deny or withhold any dwelling from any person because of such person's race, color, sex, religion or national origin.
(2)
To discriminate against a person because of such person's race, color, sex, religion or national origin in connection with the conditions or privileges of the sale, purchase, rental or lease of any dwelling or in the furnishing of facilities, insurance coverage or service in connection therewith.
(3)
To make, publish, print, circulate, post or mail, or cause to be made, published, printed, circulated, posted or mailed, any notice, statement or advertisement, or to announce a policy, or to sign or to use a form of application for the sale, purchase, rental, lease or financing of any dwelling, or to make a record of inquiry in connection with the prospective sale, purchase, rental, lease or financing of any dwelling, which indicates any discrimination or any intent to make a discrimination based on a person's race, color, sex, religion or national origin.
(4)
To represent to a person that any dwelling is not available for inspection, sale, purchase, rental or lease when in fact it is so available, or to refuse to permit a person to inspect any such dwelling because of the person's race, color, sex, religion or national origin.
(5)
To represent explicitly or implicitly, for the purpose of inducing or discouraging, or attempting to induce the sale, purchase, rental or lease, or the listing for any of the above, of any dwelling, that the presence or anticipated presence of persons of any particular race, color, sex, religion or national origin in the area to be affected by such sale, purchase, rental or lease will or may result in either:
a.
The lowering of property values in the area, or
b.
An increase in criminal or antisocial behavior in the area, or
c.
A decline in the quality of the schools and other public services in the area, or
d.
A material change in the racial, religious or ethnic composition of the area.
(Ord. of 9-5-78, § IV)
State Law reference— Similar provisions, Ga. Code Ann., § 8-3-202.
Secs. 12-172—12-187. - Reserved.
