ARTICLE III. - ON-SITE SEWAGE MANAGEMENT SYSTEMS

Sec. 23-152. - Short title.
This article shall be known and may be cited as the "On-Site Sewage Management Ordinance of the City of Winder, Georgia."
(Ord. (W-10-01) of 10-2-01)
Sec. 23-153. - Regulations.
The regulations promulgated and as hereafter amended by the environmental health section of the Georgia Department of Human Resources in the "Manual for On-Site Sewage Management Systems" are hereby adopted as the on-site sewage management regulations for the city.
(Ord. (W-10-01) of 10-2-01)
Sec. 23-154. - Procedures for enforcement of article.
The procedure for enforcement of this article shall be the procedure as set forth in O.C.G.A. sections 15-10-60 through 15-10-66, as hereinafter amended. Further, the mayor and council of the city hereby designate and empowers the county health department and all authorized employees thereof as the persons with the authority to enforce the provisions of this article within the city limits of the city. The maximum punishment to be imposed for a violation of this article shall be five hundred dollars ($500.00), or imprisonment for sixty (60) days or both. Jurisdiction over violation of this article shall be in the municipal court of the city.
(Ord. (W-10-01) of 10-2-01)
Sec. 23-155. - Inspection warrants.
(a)
As used in this article, the term "inspection warrant" means a warrant authorizing a search or inspection of private property where such a search or inspection is one that is necessary for the enforcement of this article.
(b)
The county health department or its authorized employee may obtain an inspection warrant under the conditions specified in this article. Such warrant shall authorize the county health department or its authorized employee to conduct a search or inspection of property either with or without the consent of the person whose property is to be searched or inspected.
(c)
Inspection warrants shall be issued only by a judge from the municipal court of the city or a superior court judge of the Piedmont Judicial Circuit.
(d)
The issuing judge may only issue the warrant when the judge is satisfied that the following conditions are met:
(1)
The person seeking the warrant must establish under oath or affirmation that the property to be inspected is to be inspected as part of a legally authorized program of inspection which includes that property or that there is probable cause for believing that there is a condition, object, activity, or circumstance which legally justifies such an inspection of that property; and
(2)
The issuing judge determines that the issuance of the warrant is authorized under this article.
(e)
The inspection warrant shall be validly issued only if it meets the following requirements.
(1)
The affidavit required to be made in order to obtain the warrant is attached to the warrant;
(2)
The warrant describes, either directly or by reference to the affidavit, the property upon which the inspection is to occur and is sufficiently accurate that the executor of the warrant and the owner or possessor of the property can reasonably determine from it the property of which the warrant authorizes inspection;
(3)
The warrant indicates the conditions, objects, activities, or circumstances which the inspection is intended to check or reveal; and
(4)
The warrant refers, in general terms, to the statutory or regulatory provisions sought to be enforced.
(Ord. (W-10-01) of 10-2-01)
Secs. 23-156—23-159. - Reserved.
