DIVISION 4. - WASTEWATER DISCHARGE PERMIT APPLICATION

Sec. 23-41. - Wastewater analysis.
When requested by the utilities director, a user must submit information on the nature and characteristics of its wastewater within thirty (30) days of the request. The utilities director is authorized to prepare a form for this purpose and may periodically require users to update this information.
(Ord. (7-W-96) of 6-13-96; Ord. ( (W-5-20) ) of 12-8-20, § I)
Sec. 23-42. - Wastewater discharge permit requirement.
(a)
No significant industrial user shall discharge wastewater into the POTW without first obtaining a wastewater discharge permit from the utilities director, except that a significant industrial user that has filed a timely application pursuant to section 23-43 of this article may continue to discharge for the time period specified therein.
(b)
The utilities director may require other users to obtain wastewater discharge permits as necessary to carry out the purposes of this article.
(c)
Any violation of the terms and conditions of a wastewater discharge permit shall be deemed a violation of this article and subjects the wastewater discharge permittee to the sanctions set out in divisions 10 through 12 of this article. Obtaining a wastewater discharge permit does not relieve a permittee of its obligation to comply with all federal and state pretreatment standards or requirements or with any other requirements of federal, state and local law.
(Ord. (7-W-96) of 6-13-96; Ord. ( (W-5-20) ) of 12-8-20, § I)
Sec. 23-43. - Wastewater discharge permitting—Existing connections.
Any user required to obtain a wastewater discharge permit who was discharging wastewater into the POTW prior to the effective date of this article and who wishes to continue such discharges in the future, shall, within thirty (30) days after said date, apply to the utilities director for a wastewater discharge permit in accordance with section 23-45 of this article, and shall not cause or allow discharges to the POTW to continue after sixty (60) days of the effective date of this article except in accordance with a wastewater discharge permit issued by the utilities director.
(Ord. (7-W-96) of 6-13-96; Ord. ( (W-5-20) ) of 12-8-20, § VI)
Sec. 23-44. - Same—New connections.
Any user required to obtain a wastewater discharge permit who proposes to begin or recommence discharging into the POTW must obtain such permit prior to the beginning or recommencing of such discharge. An application for this wastewater discharge permit, in accordance with section 23-45 of this article, must be filed at least ninety (90) days prior to the date upon which any discharge will begin or recommence.
(Ord. (7-W-96) of 6-13-96; Ord. ( (W-5-20) ) of 12-8-20, § VII)
Sec. 23-45. - Wastewater discharge permit application contents.
All users required to obtain a wastewater discharge permit must submit a permit application. The utilities director may require all users to submit as part of an application the following information:
(1)
Identifying information.
a.
The name and address of the facility, including the name of the operator and owner;
b.
Contact information, description of activities, facilities, and plant production processes on the premises.
(2)
Environmental permits. A list of any environmental control permits held by or for the facility.
(3)
Description of operations.
a.
A brief description of the nature, average rate of production (including each product produced by type, amount, processes, and rate of production), and standard industrial classifications of the operation(s) carried out by such user. This description should include a schematic process diagram, which indicates points of discharge to the POTW from the regulated processes;
b.
Types of wastes generated, and a list of all raw materials and chemicals used or stored at the facility which are, or could accidentally or intentionally be, discharged to the POTW;
c.
Number and type of employees, hours of operation, and proposed or actual hours of operation;
d.
Type and amount of raw materials processed (average and maximum per day);
e.
Site plans, floor plans, mechanical and plumbing plans, and details to show all sewers, floor drains, and appurtenances by size, location, and elevation, and all points of discharge.
(4)
Time and duration of discharges;
(5)
The location for monitoring all wastes covered by the permit;
(6)
Flow measurement. Information showing the measured average daily and maximum daily flow, in gallons per day, to the POTW from regulated process streams and other streams, as necessary, to allow use of the combined wastestream formula set out in Section 2.2C (40 CFR 403.6(e)).
(7)
Measurement of pollutants.
a.
The categorical pretreatment standards applicable to each regulated process and any new categorically regulated processes for existing sources.
b.
The results of sampling and analysis identifying the nature and concentration, and/or mass, where required by the standard or by the utilities director, of regulated pollutants in the discharge from each regulated process.
c.
Instantaneous, daily maximum, and long-term average concentrations, or mass, where required, shall be reported.
d.
The sample shall be representative of daily operations and shall be analyzed in accordance with procedures set out in section 23-70 of this article. Where the standard requires compliance with a BMP or pollution prevention alternative, the user shall submit documentation as required by the utilities director or the applicable standards to determine compliance with the standard.
e.
Sampling must be performed in accordance with procedures set out in 23-71 of this article.
(8)
Any requests for a monitoring waiver (or a renewal of an approved monitoring waiver) for a pollutant neither present nor expected to be present in the discharge based on section 23-64 [40 CFR 403.12(e)(2)].
(9)
Any other information as may be deemed necessary by the utilities director to evaluate the permit application.
Incomplete or inaccurate applications will not be processed and will be returned to the user for revision.
(Ord. (7-W-96) of 6-13-96; Ord. ( (W-5-20) ) of 12-8-20, § VIII)
Sec. 23-46. - Application signatories and certification.
All wastewater discharge permit applications, user reports and certification statements must be signed by an authorized representative of the user and contain the certification statement in section 23-74. If the designation of an authorized representative is no longer accurate because a different individual or position has responsibility for the overall operation of the facility or overall responsibility for environmental matters for the company, a new written authorization satisfying the requirements of this section must be submitted to utilities director prior to or together with any reports to be signed by an authorized representative.
(Ord. (7-W-96) of 6-13-96; Ord. ( (W-5-20) ) of 12-8-20, § IX)
Sec. 23-47. - Wastewater discharge permit decisions.
The utilities director will evaluate the data furnished by the user and may require additional information. Within thirty (30) days of receipt of a complete wastewater discharge permit application, the utilities director will determine whether or not to issue an industrial user permit. The utilities director may deny any application for a wastewater discharge permit.
(Ord. (7-W-96) of 6-13-96; Ord. ( (W-5-20) ) of 12-8-20, § X)
Secs. 23-48—23-50. - Reserved.
