ARTICLE VI. - UNDERGROUND UTILITY DAMAGE PREVENTION[5]

Footnotes:
--- (5) ---
Editor's note— Ord. No. 9-W-83 of Sept. 6, 1983, did not expressly amend this Code; therefore, inclusion of §§ 1—10 as art. VI, §§ 5-170—5-179, was at the discretion of the editor.
Cross reference— Fire prevention and protection, ch. 9; gas utility, ch. 11; housing, ch. 12; licenses and business regulations, ch. 13; mobile homes, ch. 14; police, ch. 20; sewers, ch. 23; soil erosion and sedimentation control, ch. 24; streets and sidewalks, ch. 27; subdivisions, ch. 28; water, ch. 31.

Sec. 5-170. - Short title.
This article may be cited as the "Underground Utility Damage Prevention Ordinance."
(Ord. (9-W-83) of 9-6-83, § 1)
Sec. 5-171. - Definitions.
As used in this article:
Damage includes the substantial weakening of structural or lateral support of an underground utility; penetration or destruction of any protective coating, housing or other protective device of an underground utility; and the partial or complete severance of an underground utility.
Demolish or demolition means any operation by which a structure or mass of material is wrecked, razed, rendered, moved or removed by means of any tools, equipment or discharge of explosives.
Excavate or excavation means an operation for the purpose of the movement or removal of earth, rock or other materials in or on the ground, by use of mechanized equipment or by discharge of explosives, and including augering, backfilling, digging, ditching, drilling, grading, plowing-in, ripping, scraping, trenching and tunneling, but not including the tilling of soil for agricultural purposes.
Mechanized equipment means equipment operated by means of mechanical power, including trenches, bulldozers, power shovels, augers, backhoes, scrapers, drills, cable and pipe plows and other equipment used for plowing-in or pulling-in cable or pipe.
Operator means any city or utility commission who owns or operates a utility.
Person means any individual, corporation, partnership, association, or any other entity organized under the laws of any state; any state; any subdivision or instrumentality of a state; and any employee, agent or legal representative thereof.
Utility means any line, system or facility used for producing, storing, conveying, transmitting or distributing communication, electricity, gas, petroleum, petroleum products, hazardous liquids, water, steam or sewerage.
Working day means every day, except Saturday, Sunday and national and legal state holidays.
(Ord. (9-W-83) of 9-6-83, § 2)
Sec. 5-172. - Excavation and demolition—Permits.
A permit from the city shall be obtained before beginning any excavation or demolition operations occurring within any city right-of-way or easement, or any excavation or demolition operations occurring near any city right-of-way, easement, building, facility, utility, structure, vehicle or other city property, which may cause damage to any city right-of-way, easement, building, facility, utility, structure, vehicle or other city property.
A permit issued pursuant to law authorizing excavation or demolition operations, shall not be deemed to relieve a person from the responsibility for complying with the provisions of this article.
(Ord. (9-W-83) of 9-6-83, § 3; Ord. (W-12-05) of 9-6-05)
Sec. 5-173. - Same—Ascertainment of location of utilities.
Except as provided in section 5-176, no person may excavate in a street, highway, public space, a private easement of an operator, or near the location of a utility installed on the premises of a customer served by such utility, or demolish a building without having first ascertained, in the manner prescribed in sections 5-174 and 5-175, the location of all underground utilities in the area that would be affected by the proposed excavation or demolition. Each operator shall maintain a list of all underground utilities and plants or maps showing their location.
(Ord. (9-W-83) of 9-6-83, § 4)
Sec. 5-174. - Notice of intent to excavate or demolish—Required.
(a)
Except as provided in section 5-176, before commencing any excavation or demolition operation designated in section 5-173, each person responsible for such excavation or demolition shall serve written or telephonic notice of intent to excavate or demolish at least three (3), but not more than ten (10) full working days [before commencing]:
(1)
On each operator (city engineer, superintendent of utilities, or city manager) which has a list required by section 5-173 indicating that it has underground utilities located in the proposed area of excavation or demolition; or
(2)
Where demolition of a building is proposed, operators shall be given reasonable time to remove or protect their utilities before demolition of the building is commenced.
(b)
The written or telephonic notice required by section 5-174 (a) must contain the name, address and telephone number of the person filing the notice of intent, and, if different, the person responsible for the excavation or demolition, the starting date, anticipated duration, and type of excavation or demolition operation to be conducted, the location of the proposed excavation or demolition, and whether or not explosives are to be used.
(c)
If the notification required by this section is made by telephone, an adequate record of such notification shall be maintained by the operators (each city may wish to include persons and telephone numbers to be notified) notified to document compliance with the requirements of this article.
(Ord. (9-W-83) of 9-6-83, § 5)
Sec. 5-175. - Same—Response.
Each operator or designated representative notified in accordance with section 5-174 shall, not less than two (2) working days in advance of the proposed excavation or demolition (unless a shorter period is provided by agreement between the person responsible for the excavation or demolition and the operator or designated representative), supply, by use of maps when appropriate, the following information to the person responsible for the excavation or demolition:
(1)
The approximate location and description of all of its underground utilities which may be damaged as a result of the excavation or demolition;
(2)
The location and description of all utility markers, indicating the approximate location of the underground utilities; and
(3)
Any other information that would assist that person in locating and thereby avoiding damage to the underground utilities, including providing adequate temporary markings indicating the approximate location of the underground utility in locations where permanent utility markers do not exist.
For purposes of this section the approximate location of underground utilities is defined as a strip of land at least three (3) feet wide but not wider than the width of the utility, plus one and one-half (1½) feet on either side of the utility.
(Ord. (9-W-83) of 9-6-83, § 6)
Sec. 5-176. - Emergency excavation or demolition.
Compliance with the notice requirements of section 5-174 is not required of persons responsible for emergency excavation or demolition to ameliorate an imminent danger to life, health or property; provided, however, that such persons shall give, as soon as practicable, oral notice of the emergency excavation or demolition to each operator having underground utilities located in the area where such excavation or demolition is to be performed and request emergency assistance from each operator so identified, in locating and providing immediate protection to its underground utilities. An imminent danger to life, health, or property exists whenever there is a substantial likelihood that loss of life, health or property will result before the procedures under sections 5-174 and 5-175 can be fully complied with.
(Ord. (9-W-83) of 9-6-83, § 7)
Sec. 5-177. - Precautions to avoid damage.
In addition to the notification requirements of section 5-174, each person responsible for any excavation or demolition operation designated in section 5-173 shall:
(1)
Plan the excavation or demolition to avoid damage to, or minimize interference with, underground utilities in and near the construction area;
(2)
Maintain a clearance between an underground utility and the cutting edge or point of any mechanized equipment, taking into account the known limit of control of such cutting edge or point, as may be reasonably necessary to avoid damage to such utility; and
(3)
Provide such support for underground utilities in and near the construction area, including during backfill operations, as may be reasonably necessary for the protection of such utilities.
(Ord. (9-W-83) of 9-6-83, § 8)
Sec. 5-178. - Excavation or demolition damage.
(a)
Except as provided by section 5-178 (b), each person responsible for any excavation or demolition operation designated in section 5-173 that results in any damage to an underground utility shall, immediately upon discovery of such damage, notify the operator of such utility of the location and nature of the damage, and shall allow the operator reasonable time to accomplish necessary repairs before completing the excavation or demolition in the immediate area of such utility.
(b)
Each person responsible for any excavation or demolition operation designated in section 5-173 that results in damage to an underground utility, permitting the escape of any flammable, toxic or corrosive gas or liquid shall, immediately upon discovery of such damage, notify the operator, police and fire departments, and take any other action as may be reasonably necessary to protect persons and property and to minimize the hazards until arrival of the operator's personnel or police and fire departments. Any person violating any provisions of this article shall be subject to specific or general criminal penalties as provided for in the City of Winder Code of Ordinances.
(Ord. (9-W-83) of 9-6-83, § 9)
Cross reference— General penalty, § 1-8.
Sec. 5-179. - Civil penalties.
Any person who violates any provision of this article shall be subject to a civil penalty of not to exceed one thousand dollars ($1,000.00) for each such violation. Actions to recover the penalty provided for in this section shall be brought by the city attorney at the request of any person in and for the city in which the cause, or some part thereof, arose or in which the defendant has its principal place of business or resides. All penalties recovered in any such actions shall be paid into the general fund of the city. This article does not affect any civil remedies for personal injury or property (including underground utilities) damage except as otherwise specifically provided for in this article.
(Ord. (9-W-93) of 9-6-83, § 10)
Secs. 5-180—5-190. - Reserved.
