Chapter 7 - CIVIL DEFENSE [1]
Footnotes:
--- (1) ---
Editor's note— Civil defense is under the jurisdiction of Barrow County. See county resolution adopted February 5, 1977.
Cross reference— Fire prevention and protection, Ch. 9; motor vehicles and traffic, Ch. 15; police, Ch. 20.
State Law reference— Local organization for civil defense, Ga. Code Ann., § 38-3-27; local civil defense rules, § 38-3-28; emergency interim successors provided by political subdivisions, § 38-3-50; interstate civil defense and disaster compact, § 38-3-70 et seq.

ARTICLE I. - SUSPENSION OF PORTIONS OF THE CODE OF ORDINANCES AND OTHER FORMALITIES DURING A STATE OF EMERGENCY

Sec. 7-1. - Authority to waive procedures and fee structures.
(a)
Meetings: Upon proclamation by the appropriate state official of an emergency or disaster of manmade or natural causes or enemy attack impending on or affecting Georgia or the United States, the affairs and business of the city may be conducted at places other than the regular or usual place thereof, within or outside Winder and/or Barrow County when it is not prudent, expedient or possible to conduct business at the regular location. When such meetings occur outside Winder and/or Barrow County, all actions taken by the local governing body shall be as valid and binding as if performed within Winder and/or Barrow County. Such meetings may be called by the presiding officer or any two (2) members of the governing body without regard to or compliance with time consuming procedures and formalities otherwise required by law.
(b)
Purchasing and public works contracts: Upon the declaration of a state of emergency by the governor, or upon the determination by the city governing authority, or its designee, of the existence of an emergency or disaster, the city governing authority, their designee or the emergency interim successor may contract for public works without letting such contract out to the lowest, responsible bidder and without advertising and posting notification of such contract for four (4) weeks; provided, however, that any public works contract entered in to pursuant to this subsection shall be entered on the minutes of the city as soon as practical and the nature of the emergency described therein.
(c)
Code enforcement: Upon the declaration of a state of emergency by the governor, or upon the determination by the city governing authority, or its designee, of the existence of an emergency or disaster, the city governing authority, their designee or the emergency interim successor may temporarily suspend the enforcement of the Code of Ordinance of the City of Winder, or any portion thereof, where (a) the emergency or disaster is of such nature that immediate action outside the Code is required: (b) such suspension is consistent with the protection of the public health, safety and welfare; (c) such suspension is not inconsistent with any federal or state statues or regulations.
(d)
Fees: Upon the declaration of a state of emergency by the governor, or upon the determination by the city governing authority or its designee, of the existence of an emergency or disaster, the city governing authority, their designee or the emergency interim successor may temporarily reduce or suspend any permit fees, application fees or other rate structures as necessary to encourage the rebuilding of the area impacted by the disaster or emergency.
(e)
Temporary dwellings: Upon the declaration of a state of emergency by the governor, or upon the determination by the city governing authority or its designee, of the existence of an emergency or disaster, the city governing authority, their designee or the emergency interim successor may issue temporary mobile home, trailer, recreational vehicle or other temporary dwelling structures or parks in any zoning district while the primary dwelling is being repaired provided that such temporary dwellings or parks are designed by an engineer and the plans are approved by the Barrow County Health Department and city building and inspections department. The temporary permit shall not exceed six (6) months in duration. In the case of continuing hardship and in the discretion of the governing authority or its designee, the permit may be extended for a period of an additional six (6) months. Upon the expiration of the temporary permit or an extension, the temporary dwelling shall be removed.
(Ord. (W-10-07) of 2-6-07)
Sec. 7-2. - Definitions.
(a)
Fees: Any fee or rate charged by the city for building permits, land disturbance permits, zoning applications, special land use permits; temporary land use permits, and other fees relating to the reconstruction, repair, and clean up of areas impacted by the disaster or emergency. "Fees" shall not include those fees collected by the city on behalf of the federal or state government or those fees charged by the city pursuant to a federal or state statue or regulation.
(b)
State of emergency: As defined by O.C.G.A. 38-3-3(5) a condition declared by the governor when, in his judgment, the threat or actual occurrence of a disaster, emergency, or energy emergency is of sufficient severity and magnitude as to warrant extraordinary efforts in preventing or alleviating the damage, loss, hardship, or suffering threatened or caused thereby.
(c)
Subsequent recovery period: The period of time that the disaster or emergency continues to cause disruptions in the area impacted by the disaster or emergency. The "subsequent recovery period" shall not exceed six (6) months after the state of emergency declaration by the governor is terminated unless extended by official action of the governing authority of the city.
(d)
Temporary dwelling: Any mobile or easily movable home, trailer, recreational vehicle or structure not otherwise permitted by the zoning regulations in a particular zoning district.
(Ord. (W-10-07) of 2-6-07)
