Chapter 50 - ROADS AND BRIDGES[1]

Footnotes:
--- (1) ---
State Law reference— Construction and maintenance of county roads, O.C.G.A. § 36-17-20 et seq.

Sec. 50-1. - Road maintenance and improvement policy.
(a)
New roads and streets constructed in accordance with the latest edition of the county subdivision regulations, as amended, and any other applicable ordinances, resolutions and specifications, and located within properly dedicated public rights-of-way, shall be accepted and maintained by the county; however, the county assumes no obligation to improve the quality or character of the roadway or street above that which was accepted for maintenance.
(b)
Existing county roads and streets located within dedicated rights-of-way accepted by the county shall be maintained at a reasonable level of service so as to provide egress and ingress to abutting property owners; however, the county shall not be obligated to widen, pave or make other improvements to such roads and streets which increase the value of the abutting property.
(c)
Existing roads and streets which have become public through the operation of prescriptive rights of the public users, and on which maintenance work has been historically performed by the county, shall continue to be maintained by the county to a level of service that will provide reasonable egress and ingress to abutting properties; however, the county shall not make substantial improvements on such roads and streets until appropriate rights-of-way have been granted, accepted and properly filed for record.
(d)
Existing private roads, streets and driveways shall not be maintained by the county, nor shall new private roads and streets be constructed by the county. However, safety of the traveling public is a high priority, therefore, from time to time it may be desirable in the interest of safety to perform a limited amount of maintenance to provide positive drainage and sight distance at private road, street, and driveway approaches. This act shall not obligate the county to perform future maintenance at these locations.
(e)
With respect to road and street improvements, the county recognizes its responsibility to expend public funds for road and street improvement on roads which are primarily intracounty traffic conductors. With respect to the improvement of residential streets and other roads primarily residential in nature, it shall be the policy of the county to assign priority to those roads and streets where the benefiting property owners substantially contribute to the payment of the cost of improvements.
(Res. of 4-18-1983, §§ 1—5; Res. of 3-5-1990, §§ 1—5)
Sec. 50-2. - Installation of driveway pipe by county.
It shall be the policy of the county to furnish and install appropriate driveway pipe, where needed, for access from a county road to a construction site for a new residence or for a new mobile home installation, subject to the following conditions that:
(1)
Budgeted funding is available.
(2)
The proposed new residence or mobile home installation is not for speculative or resale purposes.
(3)
The property owner or his authorized agent makes written application on forms provided by the county.
(4)
For new construction, the owner has a valid building permit, with the number thereof shown on the application for such pipe installation.
(5)
In the case of mobile homes, the mobile home has a current valid ad valorem tax decal affixed thereon and the number thereof is furnished in the application.
(6)
The scheduling of such driveway pipe installation is subject to the priority of public road maintenance as determined by the road superintendent.
(Res. of 3-2-1987(2))
Sec. 50-3. - Use of right-of-way by utility companies.
(a)
Permit required. All utility companies wishing to use county rights-of-way for the construction, maintenance or repair of utility lines, poles, stations and other equipment must first make application for and be granted a permit for such use of county rights-of-way. Such applications are available in the office of the planning commission.
(b)
Standards for use. All utilities granted a permit for use of county rights-of-way must conform to the current edition of utility accommodation policy and standards, as published by the state department of transportation, office of utilities, a copy of which is on file in the office of the planning commission, which is adopted by reference as part of this section. Amendments of the utility accommodation policy and standards are hereby declared to be amendments to this section.
(c)
Issuance of permit. Approval of applications and granting of permits under this section shall be the administrative responsibility of the development coordinator, office of the planning commission, under the direction of the board of commissioners.
(d)
Violations; penalty. Violation of this section in any manner is hereby declared to be a misdemeanor, and shall be punished in accordance with section 1-7. Each day such violation continues shall be a separate offense.
(Res. of 12-27-1983)
State Law reference— Power to grant franchises or make contracts with public utilities, O.C.G.A. § 36-34-2(7); limitation on action expanding the power of regulation over any business activity regulated by the Public Service Commission, O.C.G.A. § 36-35-6.
Sec. 50-4. - Provisions saved from repeal.
The resolution adopted March 3, 1985, which identifies as public roads all the roads shown on the 1982 map of the county prepared by the state department of transportation, as modified by the county highway department, is not repealed and shall continue in full force and effect.
