DIVISION 8. - COMPENSATION POLICY-PAY PLAN

Sec. 2-476. - Definition and objective of pay plan.
The pay plan is the allocation of classes of positions to pay range in the salary schedule. The objective of the pay plan is to establish and maintain equitable and realistic relationships between levels of classes based on the merit principle of providing equal pay for equal work.
(Ord. of 3-6-2020, ch. 8(A))
Sec. 2-477. - Administration and maintenance of pay plan.
The pay plan is to provide fair compensation for all classes in the plan. This will be accomplished by considering range of pay for other classes, pay for comparable services in private and public employment in the area, cost-of-living data, other benefits received by employees, the city's financial condition and other factors. Council shall, no less than every two years, cause to be made, comparable studies of all factors affecting level of salary ranges. Based on conclusions reached, council shall change salary ranges as appropriate.
(Ord. of 3-6-2020, ch. 8(B))
Sec. 2-478. - New hires.
A new employee shall be paid the minimum rate of pay for the employee's class. Exceptions may be granted upon the written prior approval of the council of the city in the following areas:
(1)
The minimum rate for each class is based on a new employee meeting the minimum qualifications stated. If it becomes necessary to appoint an employee of lesser qualifications, that employee shall be started below the minimum. The appointment shall be temporary, until the qualifications are met, changed or a qualified candidate is appointed.
(2)
If no candidate who possesses the minimum qualifications is available at the entry level, a candidate who more than meets the minimum and will not accept appointment at the minimum rate, may be appointed at a rate higher than the minimum. Being appointed at a higher rate than the minimum will require written approval of human resources and council. Cases should be thoroughly analyzed and measured against objective standards. Consideration should be given to a review of salaries of employees in the class whose salaries are below the recruiting rate.
(Ord. of 3-6-2020, ch. 8(C))
Sec. 2-479. - Promotion.
A promotion is advancement of an employee from a lower class to a higher class position. Employees must meet the minimum and any special qualifications established for the position to be eligible for a promotion. An employee who is promoted shall receive a minimum salary increase of five percent above the employee's current base pay or to the minimum level of the range for the classification of the new position, whichever is greater. The successful completion of the promotional working test period will not warrant a further salary increase.
(Ord. of 3-6-2020, ch. 8(D))
Sec. 2-480. - Transfer.
A transfer is a lateral move from one position to another within the same classification. When an employee is transferred, the employee's pay shall remain at the same rate. A transfer from one department to another shall have the approval of both supervising officials concerned and the council.
(1)
Voluntary transfer. An employee may request a transfer by submitting a request for transfer to another position/department to human resources. All applicants must meet the minimum qualifications for the desired position. The successful completion of a voluntary transfer working test period will not warrant a salary increase.
(2)
Involuntary transfer. An employee may be transferred without consent upon the written recommendation of human resources and council. The successful completion of an involuntary transfer working test period will not warrant a salary increase, nor right to appeal.
(Ord. of 3-6-2020, ch. 8(E))
Sec. 2-481. - Demotions.
A demotion is movement of an employee to a lower classification level. When an employee is demoted, the pay shall be reduced to a rate within the range of the lower position. The rate of pay shall be set by human resources and council. To be taken into consideration will be circumstances surrounding the demotion as well as the employee's length of service and performance record with the city.
(1)
Voluntary demotion. An employee may request a demotion but must compete for the job vacancy along with all others who may be eligible for applying for the position.
(2)
Involuntary demotion. If a supervisor decides demotion of an employee is necessary, appropriate, and in the best interest of the city, the supervisor shall submit a written recommendation to human resources to state detailed reasons and proposed effective date. Human resources will make a recommendation to council. Upon approval by council, human resources will initiate the demotion by notifying the supervisor. The supervisor will notify the employee, in writing, stating the reasons, effective date, and the employee's right of appeal. Involuntary demotions occur in instances of inadequate performance, reduction in workload or workforce, or for disciplinary purposes. The department director will provide documentation of such to human resources, to be placed in the employee's personnel file.
(Ord. of 3-6-2020, ch. 8(F))
Sec. 2-482. - Salary increases.
The city rewards its employees by establishing an equitable and uniform system of providing annual salary increases. Salary increases are not automatic. They are based on formal performance evaluations by supervisors during the fiscal year and are granted only when the quality of an employee's work performance meets or exceeds expectations and budget permits raises. Salary increases within appropriate ranges may be made annually at the time of the approval of department budgets upon the recommendation of supervisors and human resources based on employee evaluations and other pertinent data. Employees may receive a cost-of-living increase on a yearly basis upon approval by council. The amount will be determined by the council.
(Ord. of 3-6-2020, ch. 8(G))
Sec. 2-483. - Hours.
The established work week and hours of work shall be determined per needs of the city and the public. Non-exempt employees must record all hours on a time clock at the beginning and end of shift. Do not perform service more than five minutes before the beginning or after the end of shift. Work from the start until the end of your shift, except breaks. Do not record time of another employee. The workweek starts Monday and ends Friday.
(Ord. of 3-6-2020, ch. 8(H))
Sec. 2-484. - Part-time payment and benefits.
Whenever an employee works less than the regular established number of hours a day, days a week or weeks a month, the amount paid shall be proportionate to the full-time rate for the class. A part-time employee shall be entitled to a prorated share of personal paid and holiday leave based on the number of hours regularly worked.
(Ord. of 3-6-2020, ch. 8(I))
Sec. 2-485. - Overtime payment.
(a)
Overtime authorized by the manager may be compensated by allowing time off (comp time). Overtime shall be limited to emergencies or special situations approved by the manager and subject to budget. Overtime for all employees, except full-time salaried employees (ex., police chief), is defined as all hours over 40 during a normal work week. Overtime should be avoided, if possible, but if it is required, it must be approved in advance by the manager.
(b)
Non-exempt, full-time employees. Comp time at a rate of 1½ hours may be granted for overtime when the overtime has been requested by the supervisor/department director for non-exempt, full-time employees and whenever practical to release personnel without impairing the work program. When comp time is not practical or the employee is a non-exempt hourly employee, payment may be made on a time-and-a-half basis. The manager must assure budgetary consideration when approving overtime.
(c)
Fair Labor Standards Act. Overtime or comp time shall be subject to conditions described in the Fair Labor Standards Act for all employees, as amended.
(d)
Council shall have final authority on matters pertaining to this section. Exempt/salaried employees shall accrue comp time at a rate of not less than 1½ hours for each overtime hour worked in a two-week pay period. Comp time accruals will be limited to 120 hours for all exempt employees.
(e)
Law enforcement/public safety exception, pay period schedule pursuant to section 207(k) of the FLSA and 29 CFR 553: A normal work week pay period for law enforcement/public safety employees shall be defined as the time span of 14 consecutive 24-hour periods within which the city government calculates overtime, compensatory hours, and/or corresponding compensatory time off for exempt employees, that is, hours "over 86." Law enforcement/public safety employees shall work seven 12-hour shifts per standard two-week pay period, 84 hours each, for 26 pay periods per year for a total of 2,184 annual hours. The workweek begins at 12:01 a.m. on Sunday morning and ends at 12:00 midnight on the following second Saturday. This must not be confused with the "work schedule." A pay period shall be defined as two work weeks. An individual paycheck is used to cover one pay period. The adoption of this pay period schedule is also documented in the city payroll records, along with the length of the work period (14-days) and the starting date and time of each work period. The payroll notation shall state that this pay period schedule has been adopted "pursuant to section 207(k) of the FLSA and 29 CFR 553." Overtime should be avoided, if possible, but if it is required, it must be approved in advance by the manager or his designee.
(Ord. of 3-6-2020, ch. 8(J))
Sec. 2-486. - Inclement weather/emergency conditions.
(a)
Inclement weather and natural disasters are expected. Although driving may be difficult in some areas, when caution is exercised roads are normally passable or alternate routes available. Except in severe cases, we work regular hours. Time off due to natural disasters/weather while the city is open is unpaid. Exempt employees may be provided time off with pay to comply with laws.
(b)
Inclement weather conditions/natural disasters/emergency conditions from time-to-time do create a need for the city to reduce services or close. However, certain positions (law enforcement and street department) necessary to the welfare of the citizens of the city are required to work. The following procedures will be in effect for all employees in case of inclement weather/natural disasters/emergency conditions:
(1)
A designated city official will release to local radio stations and other news media a statement regarding work schedules.
(2)
Pay policies for inclement weather/natural disasters/emergency conditions for reduced services are:
a.
Non-emergency employee pay. After a decision to reduce services, non-emergency employees will only work with approval of the employee's supervisor, otherwise they shall use accrued personal leave, use comp time or take leave without pay.
b.
Emergency employee pay. Emergency employees are to remain on duty during their normal work schedule or alternate schedule as determined by their supervisor. Employees are to be paid in accordance with FLSA.
(3)
Pay rules after decision to close work stations. Employees unable to report to work due to closing of their work station, or have not been assigned an alternate work station, will not lose compensation. Such time shall be entered on the time sheet as "excused other" leave.
(Ord. of 3-6-2020, ch. 8(K))
Sec. 2-487. - Adoption of pay plan.
The pay plan adopted by the council shall be the official pay plan. It may be amended or revised only by council.
(Ord. of 3-6-2020, ch. 8(L))
Sec. 2-488. - Deductions.
(a)
The city by law makes deductions from your paycheck including taxes and social security (FICA). There may be additional deductions. When wages are garnished, our city must withhold the amount in the order. Our city will honor guidelines that protect a certain amount of income from garnishment. Deductions and amounts are listed on your pay stub. Exempt employees' pay will not be docked, or subject to deductions, in violation of salary pay rules issued by the U.S. Department of Labor and any corresponding rules by the state, as applicable. However, the city may make deductions from salaries as permitted under wage and hour rules.
(b)
Exempt employees may be subject to the following deductions, except where prohibited by law, but only for the following reasons:
(1)
Absences of one or more full days for personal reasons, other than sickness or disability;
(2)
Absences of one or more full days due to sickness or disability, if there is a plan, policy, or practice providing replacement compensation for such absences;
(3)
Absences of one or more full days before eligibility under a plan, policy, or practice or after replacement compensation for such absences has been exhausted;
(4)
Suspensions of one or more full days for violations of rules of major significance, violations of written workplace conduct rules, such as rules against sexual harassment and workplace violence;
(5)
Payment of actual time worked in the first and last weeks of employment, resulting in a proportional rate of an employee's full salary, in whole-day increments only.
The city will not make deductions prohibited by laws from exempt employees' pay. If questions about deductions, discuss with clerk.
(Ord. of 3-6-2020, ch. 8(M))
Secs. 2-489—2-507. - Reserved.
