DIVISION 9. - GRIEVANCES AND APPEALS

Sec. 2-508. - Submission of grievances.
We encourage you to bring questions, suggestions and complaints to us. We will consider these in our effort to improve operations. If you have a problem, present it to the clerk so it can be settled. We hope the clerk will be able to satisfactorily resolve most. If you still have questions after meeting with the clerk or would like further clarification, request a meeting with the manager, who will meet with you to discuss. Your suggestions and comments are important, and we encourage you to discuss them with us. Your job will not be adversely affected because you choose this.
(Ord. of 3-6-2020, ch. 9)
Sec. 2-509. - Definition.
The term "grievance" means a complaint by an employee concerning interpretation of these policies and procedures, departmental work rules, or disciplinary action affecting employment.
(Ord. of 3-6-2020, ch. 9(A))
Sec. 2-510. - Policy.
The most effective accomplishment of work requires prompt and equitable adjustment of employee grievances. It is the desire of the city to address grievances informally, and employees and supervisors shall make every effort to resolve problems as they arise. There may be grievances which will be resolved only after a formal appeal and review. No employee shall be disciplined or discriminated against because of the grievance procedure.
(Ord. of 3-6-2020, ch. 9(B))
Sec. 2-511. - Grievance procedure.
(a)
Employee filing. An employee will file grievances in the following manner:
(1)
Informal grievances. An employee shall first discuss a grievance with the immediate supervisor to hear the grievance and consider the type of corrective action the employee is seeking. The supervisor shall make inquiry into the facts and circumstances of the complaint and attempt to resolve the problem promptly and fairly.
(2)
Formal grievances. An employee who is not satisfied with the decision received informally, shall have the right to file a formal written complaint, through human resources, within ten business days of the decision. Human resources may, within a reasonable time, convene a hearing to discuss the grievance with the employee, the employee's representative, and the supervisor. A decision will be rendered within a reasonable time and shall be final. The appellant will receive same in writing.
(b)
Departmental matters not to be disclosed; exceptions. It is not acceptable to discuss departmental matters outside chain of command. The only exceptions are when taking a serious issue to a personal attorney or the Police Benevolent Association (regarding police department matters). Legitimate concerns cannot be solved outside of the aforementioned and denigrate the morale and professionalism of the department.
(Ord. of 3-6-2020, ch. 9(C))
Secs. 2-512—2-530. - Reserved.
