DIVISION 12. - SEPARATIONS

Sec. 2-585. - Types of separations.
Separations or terminations shall be designated as:
(1)
Resignation;
(2)
Abandonment;
(3)
Lay-off;
(4)
Furlough;
(5)
Reduction-in-force;
(6)
Disability;
(7)
Loss of job requirements;
(8)
Death;
(9)
Retirement; or
(10)
Dismissal.
(Ord. of 3-6-2020, ch. 12(A))
Sec. 2-586. - City property.
At time of separation and prior to final payment, all records, assets, and other city property shall be transferred to the employee's department director or supervisor. Department directors or supervisor and the separated employee will sign a certification to this effect. Any amount due because of shortage in the above shall be withheld from the employee's final compensation. In the case of a department director or supervisor being terminated, the accounting shall be to the manager. All accountings must be forwarded to human resources.
(Ord. of 3-6-2020, ch. 12(B))
Sec. 2-587. - Resignation.
(a)
To resign in good standing, an employee shall give notice in writing to the department director or supervisor at least ten working days prior to effective date of the resignation. The director or supervisor will forward all resignations to human resources within 24 hours. Any full or part-time employee leaving in good standing will be compensated for any unused personal leave accrued.
(b)
All city property, including this handbook, must be returned at the end of employment. Otherwise, the city may take action to recoup any replacement costs and/or seek the return of city property through legal recourse. Notify us if your address changes during the year discharge occurs, so your tax info will be sent to the proper address. Our city does not provide a "letter of reference."
(c)
An employee who resigns in good standing shall be eligible for rehire. Such eligibility shall not be a right and is subject to the working probationary period.
(Ord. of 3-6-2020, ch. 12(C))
Sec. 2-588. - Abandonment.
Failure to report without valid reason and without authorized leave for two consecutive work days shall be cause for separating an employee from the payroll and reporting the employee as having abandoned their position.
(Ord. of 3-6-2020, ch. 12(D))
Sec. 2-589. - Lay-off, furlough, reduction-in-force.
An involuntary separation not involving delinquency, misconduct or inefficiency shall be a lay-off or furlough. To reduce workforce, employees shall be laid off on the basis of time of service, criticalness of skill and performance. Options of keeping employees elsewhere in the city may be considered. Upon separation, you may be entitled to unemployment insurance benefits. Information about unemployment insurance can be obtained from the clerk.
(Ord. of 3-6-2020, ch. 12(E))
Sec. 2-590. - Disability.
In disability other than as a result of an on-the-job injury, the department director or supervisor, or human resources may direct any employee to be examined by a physician designated by human resources. When a disability is discovered which impairs ability to perform essential functions of a job, or impairs effectiveness of others, the following action may be taken:
(1)
If the disability can be corrected, the employee may be allowed a specified reasonable length of time as determined by the department director or supervisor to have it corrected. If the employee fails to take steps to have it corrected within the specified time, the employee may be subject to disciplinary action or termination.
(2)
If, in the opinion of the examining physician, the disability cannot be corrected, the department director or supervisor shall attempt to reasonably accommodate the employee or place the employee in another position where the essential functions of the job can be performed satisfactorily. If that cannot be accomplished without undue hardship, the director or supervisor may take steps to separate the employee from the city service through dismissal without prejudice.
(Ord. of 3-6-2020, ch. 12(F))
Sec. 2-591. - Loss of requirements.
(a)
You will be informed by clerk of licensing, certification or testing requirements. Failure to qualify or maintain such may be cause for discharge.
(b)
Employees for whom operation of a vehicle is an essential duty must present and maintain a valid driver's license and clean driving record to our insurer. Changes must be reported to the clerk immediately. Violation may result in immediate termination.
(c)
Any employee unable to do a job because of loss of any drivers or any other necessary license, or who fails to obtain certification required, or who fails to meet other job requirements, shall be terminated.
(Ord. of 3-6-2020, ch. 12(G))
Sec. 2-592. - Death.
When an employee dies, all compensation due shall be paid to the estate or properly designated individual.
(Ord. of 3-6-2020, ch. 12(H))
Sec. 2-593. - Retirement.
An employee may voluntarily retire at 62 years of age, which shall be considered voluntary separation, if the employee meets the requirements governing any allocable pension plan covering the employee. The employee's right to benefits shall be determined under the retirement plan documents.
(Ord. of 3-6-2020, ch. 12(I))
Sec. 2-594. - Dismissal.
A dismissal is a separation for definable cause, such as inefficiency, insubordination, other rule violation, or inability to perform the required work satisfactorily.
(Ord. of 3-6-2020, ch. 12(J))
Secs. 2-595—2-613. - Reserved.
