Chapter 3 - ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES[1]
Footnotes:
--- (1) ---
Cross reference— Public drunkenness, § 12-26; open containers of alcoholic beverages, § 12-27.
State Law reference— Use of proceeds of alcoholic beverage tax for prevention, education and treatment, Ga. Const. art. 3, sec. 9, par. 6; Georgia Alcoholic Beverage Code, O.C.G.A. § 3-1-1 et seq.; furnishing to, purchase of or possession by persons under 21 years of age, use of false identification, O.C.G.A. § 3-3-23; public drunkenness, O.C.G.A. § 16-11-41; furnishing alcoholic beverages to persons under 21 years of age, jurisdiction of municipal courts, O.C.G.A. § 36-32-10; treatment of alcoholics and intoxicated persons, O.C.G.A. § 37-8-1 et seq.; driving under the influence of alcohol or drugs, O.C.G.A. § 40-6-391.

ARTICLE I. - IN GENERAL

Sec. 3-1. - Definitions.
The following words, terms and phrases, when used in this chapter, shall have the meanings ascribed to them in this section, except where the context clearly indicates a different meaning:
Alcohol means ethyl alcohol, hydrated oxide of ethyl, or spirits of wine, from whatever source or by whatever process produced.
Alcoholic beverage means and includes all alcohol, distilled spirits, beer, malt beverage, wine or fortified wine.
Broker means any person who purchases or obtains an alcoholic beverage from an importer, distillery, brewery, or winery and sells the alcoholic beverage to another broker, importer, or wholesaler without having custody of the alcoholic beverage or maintaining a stock of the alcoholic beverage.
County or municipality means those political subdivisions of this state as defined by law and includes any form of political subdivision consolidating a county with one (1) or more municipalities.
Department means the police department.
Distilled spirits means any alcoholic beverage obtained by distillation or containing more than twenty-one (21) percent alcohol by volume, including but not limited to all fortified wines.
Fortified wine means any alcoholic beverage containing more than twenty-one (21) percent alcohol by volume made from fruits, berries, or grapes either by natural fermentation or by natural fermentation with brandy added. The term includes but is not limited to brandy.
Gallon or wine gallon means a United States gallon of liquid measure equivalent to the volume of two hundred thirty-one (231) cubic inches or the nearest equivalent metric measurement.
Governing authority means the city council.
Hotel means a building or other structure kept, used, maintained, advertised, and held out to the public to be a place where sleeping accommodations are offered for adequate pay to travelers and guests, whether transient, permanent or residential, in which thirty-five (35) or more rooms are used for the sleeping accommodations of such guests. Motels meeting the qualifications set out in this definition for hotels shall be classified in the same category as hotels. Hotels shall have the privilege of granting franchises for the operation of a lounge or restaurant on their premises, and the holder of such franchise shall be included in the definition of hotel.
Importer means any person who imports an alcoholic beverage into this state from a foreign country and sells the alcoholic beverage to another importer, broker, or wholesaler and who maintains a stock of the alcoholic beverage.
Individual means a natural person.
License means the authorization by the governing authority to engage in the sale for consumption on the premises of alcoholic beverages.
License means the authorization by the city to engage in the sale of alcoholic beverages within the city.
Lounge means a separate room connected with, a part of and adjacent to a restaurant or located in a hotel, with all booths, stools and tables being unobstructed and open to view. All lounges shall be air conditioned and have a seating capacity of at least twenty-five (25).
Malt beverage means any alcoholic beverages obtained by the fermentation of any infusion or decoction of barley, malt, hops, or any other similar product, or any combination of such products in water, containing not more than six (6) percent alcohol by volume and including ale, porter, brown, stout, lager beer, small beer, and strong beer. The term does not include sake, known as Japanese rice wine.
Manufacturer means any maker, producer, or bottler of an alcoholic beverage. The term also means:
(1)
In the case of distilling spirits, any person engaged in distilling, rectifying, or blending any distilled spirits;
(2)
In the case of malt beverage, any brewer; and
(3)
In the case of wine, any vintner.
Microbrewery means a facility in which malt beverages are manufactured producing fewer than fifteen thousand (15,000) barrels per year.
Military reservation means a duly commissioned post, camp, base, or station of a branch of the armed forces of the United States located on a territory within this state which has been ceded to the United States.
Package means a bottle, can, keg, barrel, or other original consumer container.
Person means any individual, firm, partnership, cooperative, nonprofit membership corporation, joint venture, association, company, corporation, agency, syndicate, estate, trust, business trust, receiver, fiduciary, or other group or combination acting as a unit, body politic, or political subdivision, whether public, private or quasipublic.
Premises means the definite closed or partitioned-in locality, whether a room, shop or building, wherein distilled spirits shall be sold and consumed therein.
Private club means a corporation organized and existing under the laws of the state; actively in operation within the city at least one (1) year immediately prior to the application for a license hereunder; having at least fifty (50) members regularly paying monthly, quarterly or semiannual dues; organized and operated exclusively for pleasure, recreation and other nonprofitable purposes, no part of the net earnings of which inures to the benefit of any shareholder or member; and owning, hiring or leasing a building or space therein for the reasonable use of its members with suitable kitchen and dining room space and equipment and maintaining and using a sufficient number of servants and employees for cooking, preparing and serving meals for its members and guests; provided that no member or officer, agent or employee of the club is paid or directly or indirectly receives, in the form of salary or other compensation, any profits from the sale of distilled spirits liquors to the club or its members or guests beyond the amount of such salary as may be fixed by its members at any annual meeting or by its governing board out of the general revenue of the club.
Restaurant means any public place kept, used, maintained, advertised and held out to the public as a place where meals are served and where meals are actually and regularly served, without sleeping accommodations, such places being provided with adequate and sanitary kitchen and dining room equipment and seating a capacity of at least thirty (30) people, having employed therein a sufficient number and kind of employees to prepare, cook, and serve suitable food for its guests. At least one (1) meal per day shall be served at least five (5) days a week, with exception of holidays, vacation and periods of redecorating; and the serving of such meals shall be the principal business conducted, with the serving of distilled spirits to be consumed on the premises as only incidental thereto.
Retail consumption dealer means any person who sells distilled spirits for consumption on the premises at retail only to consumers and not for resale.
Retailer or retail distributor means any person engaged in selling, at retail, any distilled spirits or alcohol, for beverage purposes, in unbroken packages.
Shipper means any person who ships an alcoholic beverage from outside this state.
Standard case means six (6) containers of one and three-fourths (1.75) liters, twelve (12) containers of seven hundred fifty (750) milliliters, twelve (12) containers of one (1) liter, twenty-four (24) containers of five hundred (500) milliliters, or forty-eight (48) containers of two hundred (200) milliliters.
Tax stamp means the official mark, stamp, or indicium of the department used to indicate the payment of taxes imposed by this chapter.
Taxpayer means any person made liable by law to file a return or to pay tax.
Wholesale or wholesale distributor means any person engaged in distribution or selling to retailers for the purpose of resale any of the distilled spirits or alcohol.
Wine means any alcohol beverage containing not more than twenty-one (21) percent alcohol by volume made from fruits, berries, or grapes, either by natural fermentation or by natural fermentation with brandy added. The term includes but is not limited to all sparkling wines, champagnes, combinations of such beverages, vermouths, special natural wines, rectified wines, and like products. The term does not include cooking wine mixed with salt or other ingredients so as to render it unfit for human consumption as a beverage.
(Code 1967, §§ 3-33, 3-100, 3-128; Ord. No. 15-7, §§ 1, 2, 6-8-15; Ord. No. 17-4, § 1, 8-4-17; Ord. No. 18-1, § 1, 1-8-18)
Sec. 3-2. - Prohibited acts—Generally.
(a)
It shall be unlawful for any person to sell, offer to sell, furnish, or offer to furnish any alcoholic beverage to any person who is:
(1)
Under the age of twenty-one (21) years;
(2)
In an intoxicated condition;
(3)
Known to be a habitual drunkard or known to be of unsound mind.
(b)
It shall be unlawful for any person under twenty-one (21) years of age to purchase, attempt to purchase, or possess any alcoholic beverage in the city.
(c)
It shall be unlawful for any person to sell, offer to sell, furnish, or offer to furnish any alcoholic beverage at any time when such sale is prohibited by any law or regulation of the state or the city.
(d)
It shall be unlawful for any person to manufacture, sell or possess for the purpose of sale any alcoholic beverage within the city, unless such person shall have a license from the city and the state to manufacture or sell alcoholic beverages.
(e)
It shall be unlawful for any person to commit any breach of the peace, any disorderly conduct or to act in any lewd, immoral or improper manner or to allow any lewd, improper or immoral entertainment, conduct or practice upon the premises wherein alcoholic beverages are sold under a license issued by the city.
(f)
It shall be unlawful for any gambling, betting, games of chance, punch boards, slot machines, pinball machines, lotteries or tickets or chances therein or the operation of any schemes for hazarding money or any other thing of value to be in or take place in any licensee's place of business or in any room adjoining the business owned, leased or controlled by any licensee, unless such games of chance are duly authorized by the state.
(g)
Any person convicted of violating any section or subsection of this chapter shall be punished as set out in section 1-14 of this Code. If the person so convicted shall be the holder of any retail license or wholesale permit to sell alcoholic beverages within the city, then such person shall automatically forfeit such retail license or wholesale permit, and the license or permit shall be revoked.
(Code 1967, § 3-8)
Sec. 3-3. - Same—Class A licensees.
In addition to all regulations contained in section 3-2, it shall also be unlawful for anyone to open, possess, or drink from any open can, bottle, or other container containing any alcoholic beverage on any premises where alcoholic beverages are sold by a class A licensee.
Sec. 3-4. - Delivery off the premises forbidden.
No licensee shall sell or deliver any alcoholic beverage to any person except in the licensee's place of business.
(Code 1967, § 3-41)
Sec. 3-5. - Sales to be in original unbroken package; minimum sale.
All licensed retailers, except class B license holders, shall sell or offer to sell in the original unbroken package only and, in the case of class A distilled spirits, shall sell no package containing less than one-half pint.
(Code 1967, § 3-39)
Sec. 3-6. - Posting of sign relative to sales to persons under twenty-one.
The holder of a license to sell alcoholic beverages shall post in the most conspicuous place in his establishment a sign printed in letters at least four (4) inches high reading as follows: "Sale of alcoholic beverages to person under twenty-one (21) years of age strictly prohibited."
(Code 1967, § 3-44)
Sec. 3-7. - Employment of persons under eighteen.
Except where authorized by law, no license holder or any employee or agent of such holder, where the sale of alcoholic beverages is permitted on the premises, shall employ any person under the age of eighteen (18) years. However, the provisions of this section shall not prevent the employment of persons under eighteen (18) years of age in restaurants or private clubs selling alcoholic beverages for consumption on the premises, but it shall be unlawful for any person to allow a person under eighteen (18) years of age to dispense, serve, sell, or take orders for alcoholic beverages in such restaurants or clubs. This section shall not prohibit persons under eighteen (18) years of age who are employed in supermarkets, convenience stores, breweries, or drugstores from selling or handling alcoholic beverages which are sold for consumption off the premises.
(Code 1967, § 3-55)
Sec. 3-8. - Reserved.
Editor's note— Ord. No. 17-5, § 1, adopted October 9, 2017, repealed § 3-8, which pertained to sales on certain days prohibited and derived from Ord. of 12-21-92; Ord. No. 2009-20, § 1, 8-10-09; Ord. No. 2012-1, § 1, 2-13-12.
Sec. 3-9. - Sales on election day allowed.
Any licensee under this chapter may permit the sale of alcoholic beverages on any election day in the same manner as is otherwise allowed by this chapter.
Sec. 3-10. - Copy of provisions kept on premises; familiarity of employees with provisions.
Every holder of an alcoholic beverage license shall keep a copy of this article and article II of this chapter in the premises and shall instruct any person working there with respect to the terms hereof, and each licensee or his agents selling alcoholic beverages shall at all times be familiar with the terms hereof. The licensee shall be held responsible for any acts of his employees in any violation of this chapter or of the laws of the state or the rules and regulations of the commissioner of the state department of revenue.
(Code 1967, § 3-52)
Sec. 3-11. - Premises open to inspection.
The business premises of the holder of any alcoholic beverage license shall be open to inspection at any and all times by officers and officials of the city.
(Code 1967, § 3-53)
Sec. 3-12. - Violations.
Any person who shall violate any of the provisions of this article or article II of this chapter or who shall assist or aid another in violating this article or article II shall, upon conviction therefor by the municipal court, be punished as provided in section 1-14 of this Code.
(Code 1967, § 3-116)
Sec. 3-13. - Alcohol caterers; event permit for catered functions.
(a)
As used in this section, the term:
(1)
Licensed alcoholic beverage caterer means any person, other than a private club, who holds a valid license from the State of Georgia and any county or municipality in this state wherein the caterer's place of business is located which authorizes the licensee to sell, either by the drink or package, wine, malt beverages or distilled spirits.
(2)
Authorized catered function means a function held at a location within the city for which an event permit has been issued in accordance with this section.
(b)
Any person who holds a valid license from the county or municipality wherein his place of business is located, including the City of West Point, which authorizes the licensee to sell malt beverages or wine by the package or by the drink for consumption on the premises may apply to the city for an "off-premises consumption: malt beverages/wine" license to distribute malt beverages or wine by the drink off-premises within the city at authorized catered functions in conjunction with food service. Applications shall be supported by evidence of required licenses in good standing.
(c)
Any person who holds a valid license from the county or municipality wherein his place of business is located, including the City of West Point, which authorizes the licensee to sell distilled spirits, malt beverages or wine, by the package or by the drink for consumption on-premises may apply to the city for an event permit to sell distilled spirits, malt beverages or wine, by the drink off-premises within the city at authorized catered functions in conjunction with food service. Applications shall be supported by evidence of required licenses in good standing.
(d)
The event permit application shall be filed with the department of community development and shall be approved or disapproved by the city manager, or his designee, within fourteen (14) days of the filing of a complete application. Such application must include the name of the caterer, together with his license number; the date, time and duration of the event; the name and address of the event host or sponsor, and, if different, the address of the location where the event will be held. The application shall be signed by the licensed alcoholic beverage caterer and the event host or sponsor. If the event host or sponsor is not the owner of the property at which the event will be held, then the owner of the property, or the owner's authorized agent, shall sign the application consenting to the distribution of alcoholic beverages at that location.
(e)
Each event permit shall require payment of a fifty dollars ($50.00) fee; provided, however, if the caterer maintains a place of business within the City of West Point, such fee shall be waived. No event permit shall be issued for more than three (3) consecutive days and a full permit fee shall be assessed for each day of the event.
(f)
The licensed alcoholic beverage caterer shall provide such personnel as needed to handle all alcoholic beverages served or dispensed at the catered event. This shall include bartending, dispensing, serving, providing, or furnishing of alcoholic beverages. Employees of a licensed alcoholic beverage caterer shall be twenty-one (21) years of age or older in order to handle beverage alcohol at such catered event.
(g)
In addition to the specific requirements applicable to caterers as required herein, sales of alcoholic beverages by a licensed alcoholic beverages caterer shall be subject to all other applicable regulations of this chapter according to the underlying city alcoholic beverages license held by said caterer. For those caterers who hold an underlying license from another jurisdiction, the regulations will be those which would apply if such caterer's underlying license were issued by West Point.
(h)
Any person violating any of the provisions of O.C.G.A. § 3-11-4 regulating off-premises consumption sales by licensed alcoholic beverage caterers shall be tried, upon citation returnable to the municipal court, for a violation of this chapter, and, if convicted, punished in the manner hereinafter provided.
(i)
At the discretion of the city manager, the city may deny an alcoholic beverage catering license or event permit to any applicant found to have violated any local or state law regulation relating to the service or sale of alcoholic beverages while operating within the city.
(Ord. No. 18-7, § 3, 8-13-18)
Secs. 3-14—3-30. - Reserved.
ARTICLE II. - LICENSES

Sec. 3-31. - Classification; application; fees.
(a)
Licenses for the sale of alcoholic beverages in the city shall be classified as class A licenses (retail package sales), class B licenses (retail on-premises consumption), microbrewery licenses and wholesale licenses. It shall be lawful to sell alcoholic beverages in the city by persons duly licensed in one (1) of the four (4) classes set out in this subsection. For each license, the following shall apply:
(1)
Class A licenses shall authorize the sale of alcoholic beverages at retail, only in the original package and for consumption off the premises of the licensee.
(2)
Class B licenses shall authorize the sale of alcoholic beverages at retail, in the original package and for consumption on the premises of the licensee. No class B license shall be issued to any person except an applicant who operates a commercial business within the city limits which is engaged in the business of operating a food service establishment which has current and valid permits or licenses issued by the state department of health. Each such licensee must operate the food serving business at a location which has a minimum seating capacity of fifty (50) persons and has employed therein a sufficient number and kind of employees to prepare, cook and serve suitable food for its patrons and which offers regular food service at least five (5) days per week, with the exception of holidays, vacation periods, etc. No class B licensee shall maintain any type of on-premises outdoor advertising indicating that such establishment sells alcoholic beverages.
(3)
Microbrewery licenses shall authorize the manufacture and sale of alcoholic beverages in accordance with this Code and state law, as amended from time to time.
(4)
Wholesale licenses shall be issued only to those persons who are licensed by the state to sell and distribute alcoholic beverages at wholesale.
(b)
For consideration, all applications for licenses to sell alcoholic beverages shall be filed with the city clerk-treasurer.
(c)
In addition to the completion and submission of an application form as required by the city, each applicant shall attach thereto a completed form with all attachments and requirements for a state license.
(d)
Every applicant for a license authorized by this section shall pay to the clerk-treasurer an annual license fee which shall accompany the application. The annual license fee shall be in an amount determined from time to time by the city council and listed in the schedule of fees and charges maintained in the clerk-treasurer's office.
(e)
A notice of each application shall be advertised once a week for two weeks within thirty (30) days of the filing of the application. Such advertisement shall be published in the Valley Times News, a newspaper published in Lanett, Chambers County, Alabama, and having a general circulation in the city.
(Code 1967, §§ 3-1, 3-10(a), 3-47(a), (b), 3-107(a), 3-130; Ord. of 10-12-92; Ord. No. 15-7, § 3, 6-8-15; Ord. No. 17-4, § 2, 8-4-17)
Sec. 3-32. - Sale without license.
It shall be unlawful for any person to sell or possess for the purpose of sale any alcoholic beverage where such person does not have a license from the city to sell or possess such alcoholic beverage for resale.
Sec. 3-33. - Qualifications for license.
The alcoholic beverage licensee must be a person of good moral character and must meet the following qualifications:
(1)
The licensee shall not have been convicted within ten (10) years of the date of his application of a felony or any violation of the laws of the state or of any other state relating to the sale of alcoholic beverages.
(2)
In no event shall any such license be granted to any person or to any corporation where the person or any officer of the corporation has been convicted or has pleaded guilty or entered a plea of nolo contendere to any crime involving moral turpitude within a period of ten (10) years immediately prior to the date of application for such license.
(3)
The licensee shall not have had revoked, for cause, such as a violation of regulations or improper operation, within three (3) years next preceding his application, any license issued to him by the county, the state, or any other state to sell alcoholic beverages of any kind.
(4)
The licensee shall be the owner, operator or manager of the premises for which the license is held.
(5)
The licensee shall be active in and solely responsible for the management and operation of the business for which the license is granted.
(6)
The applicant shall make a sworn statement of his qualifications according to subsections (1) through (5) and shall place the same on file with the city clerk-treasurer before any license is issued.
(7)
If the application covers a copartnership, all members of the copartnership must be qualified to obtain a license and must make a sworn statement of these qualifications.
(8)
If the application is in the name of a corporation, the corporation shall be lawfully registered or authorized to do business in the state and the person who applies for the license in the name of the corporation must make a sworn statement setting out the names and addresses of all officers of the corporation and must include the name of its agent authorized to receive service of process under the laws of the state.
(9)
Any misstatement or concealment of facts in the application shall be grounds for revocation of the license issued and shall make the applicant liable for prosecution of perjury under the laws of the state.
(10)
Every person employed by a person engaged in the sale of alcoholic beverages, at retail, in the city shall be a person of good moral character who convicted or shall not have pleaded guilty or shall not have entered a plea of nolo contendere to any crime involving moral turpitude. The employment of any such person by a person applying for a license shall be grounds to have the application denied. The employment of any such person by any business authorized to sell alcoholic beverages, at retail, in the city shall be grounds for the revocation of the license of such employer.
(11)
Every person employed by a person in the sale of alcoholic beverages, at retail, in the city shall be a person who shall not have been convicted or shall not have pleaded guilty or shall not have entered a plea of nolo contendere within six (6) months to any statute, law or ordinance duly enacted by any state, county or municipality relating to the sale of alcoholic beverages, provided such conviction or plea was the first offense. No person may be employed by a person engaged in the sale of alcoholic beverages, at retail, in the city if such person has on more than one (1) occasion been convicted or has pleaded guilty or has entered a plea of nolo contendere to any statute, law or ordinance duly enacted by any state, county or municipality relating to the sale of alcoholic beverages. The employment of any such person by a person applying for a license shall be grounds to have the application denied. The employment of any such person by any business authorized to sell alcoholic beverages, at retail, in the city shall be grounds for the revocation of the license of such employer.
(12)
Any applicant for a retail license must show, to the satisfaction of the city manager, financial responsibility. Financial statements must be submitted with each completed application as prescribed by the governing authority. Forms of the same are to be furnished by the governing authority along with or included in application forms for a license.
(Code 1967, § 3-2; Ord. No. 15-7, § 4, 6-8-15; Ord. No. 17-4, § 3, 8-4-17)
Sec. 3-34. - Proximity of place of business to churches, schools.
(a)
No class A license shall be issued for the package sale of distilled spirits where the place of business is to be located within one hundred (100) yards of any church building or within two hundred (200) yards of any school building, education building, school grounds or college campus. No class A malt beverage or wine package license shall be issued where the place of business is to be located within one hundred (100) yards of any school building, school grounds, or college campus.
(b)
The distance set out in subsection (a) shall be measured by straight line measurements from the property line of a church, school ground, or college campus to the property line of the place of business of the licensee.
(Code 1967, §§ 3-9, 3-36, 3-117; Ord. of 7-14-97; Ord. of 5-13-02; Ord. No. 15-7, § 7, 6-8-15)
Sec. 3-35. - Authority to grant or deny license; appeal.
(a)
Within the guidelines of due process required within O.C.G.A. § 3-3-2, the city manager, based upon the facts set forth in the application and revealed by the appropriate investigations, shall have the authority to approve the application and grant the license, disapprove the application and deny the license, or refer the matter to the mayor and council for final action. The city manager shall act on the license within forty-five (45) days of the submission of a fully completed application. The provisions of O.C.G.A. § 3-3-2 relating to due process, and including but not limited to notification and the right to a hearing, shall be complied with by the city.
(b)
If the city manager denies an application for a license, the applicant shall be provided notice in writing of the denial which shall include the reason(s) therefor. The applicant shall have the right to appeal such denial to the mayor and council by filing a request for hearing with the city manager no more than ten (10) days following the receipt of the denial notice. The hearing before the mayor and council shall be held not more than thirty (30) days from the date the city manager receives the notice of appeal. The applicant shall have the right to be represented by an attorney at the hearing, at his or her expense, and to present evidence and cross-examine opposing witnesses. Within ten (10) days from the conclusion of the hearing, the mayor and council shall notify the applicant in writing of their decision.
(Ord. No. 15-7, § 5, 6-8-15)
Editor's note— Ord. No. 15-7, § 5, adopted June 8, 2015, amended § 3-35 in its entirety, including retitling the catchline from "To whom application presented; issuance" to read as herein set out.
Sec. 3-36. - Growlers.
(a)
For the purposes of this Code section, the term "growler" means a container not to exceed a capacity of seventy-two (72) ounces that is capable of being sealed and is filled at the time of customer purchase by the licensee or employee of the licensed establishment with beer from a keg for off-premises consumption.
(b)
The sale of growlers in compliance with this section is authorized for establishments with a class A malt beverages license, a microbrewery license and, to the extent authorized by the Department of Revenue, a class B malt beverages license.
(c)
Except in the case of a licensed microbrewery, whose product will not be supplied by a licensed wholesaler, growlers may only be filled from kegs procured by the licensee from a duly licensed wholesaler.
(d)
Only professionally sanitized and sealed growlers may be filled and made available for retail sale.
(e)
Each growler must be securely sealed and removed from the premises in its sealed condition.
(f)
Consumption on the premises from a growler is strictly prohibited.
(Ord. No. 17-4, § 5, 8-4-17)
Editor's note— Ord. No. 17-4, § 5, adopted August 4, 2017, repealed the former § 3-36, and enacted a new § 3-36 as set out herein. The former § 3-36 pertained to annual renewal and derived from the original codification of 1991.
Sec. 3-37. - Compliance; revocation of license for violation.
Alcoholic beverage licensees shall at all times comply with the laws of the state and the rules and regulations promulgated from time to time regulating the sale of alcoholic beverages by the commissioner of revenue of the state, and any violation of these regulations shall subject the licensee to revocation of his license.
Sec. 3-38. - License constitutes grant or privilege; inscription on face of license.
(a)
All licenses issued under this article shall constitute a mere grant or privilege to carry on or conduct the business covered by such license subject to the terms and conditions imposed by the Charter, this article and other applicable ordinances of the city and the constitution, laws and regulations of the state and the United States applicable thereto.
(b)
All licenses issued under this article shall have printed on the face the following:
THIS LICENSE IS A MERE PRIVILEGE AND IS SUBJECT TO BEING REVOKED AND ANNULLED BY THE MAYOR AND ALDERMEN OF WEST POINT AND IS SUBJECT TO LAWS, ORDINANCES AND REGULATIONS HEREAFTER ADOPTED.
(Code 1967, §§ 3-9(4), 3-113, 3-153)
Sec. 3-39. - Qualifications for wholesale license; application.
Wholesale alcoholic beverage licenses shall be issued only to those parties who are licensed by the state to sell and distribute alcoholic beverages at wholesale. Application for such license shall be made with the clerk-treasurer.
(Code 1967, § 3-7)
Sec. 3-40. - Display.
Licenses under this article shall be displayed prominently at all times on the premises for which the license was issued.
(Code 1967, § 3-57)
Sec. 3-41. - Suspension or revocation for due cause; notice; hearing; refund.
(a)
Any alcoholic beverage license which has been issued or which may hereafter be issued by the city to any licensee may be suspended or revoked for due cause, as defined in this section, and after a hearing held by the mayor and council for the purpose of considering any such suspension or revocation. At least five (5) days prior to the hearing, written notice of a time, place and purpose of such hearing and a statement of the charge upon which such hearing shall be held shall be given to the holder of such license which is sought to be suspended or revoked.
(b)
Due cause for the suspension of any license shall consist of a violation of any laws or ordinances regulating such business or violation of regulations made pursuant to the authority granted for the purpose of regulating such business or for the violation of any state or federal law or for the violation of any city ordinances other than traffic ordinances.
(c)
The mayor is hereby authorized to suspend any licenses issued under this article for any emergency situation, civil disorder or natural disaster or any situation that the mayor deems such immediate suspension necessary for the protection of the health and welfare of the citizens of the city. The suspension may be made effective immediately and shall remain in force until the mayor determines the emergency is over or until the next regular meeting of the city council or a special meeting called prior to the next regular meeting.
(d)
When a license is suspended or revoked, the city shall not be required to refund any portion of the license taxes to the holder of such suspended or revoked license.
(Code 1967, § 3-114; Ord. No. 15-7, § 6, 6-8-15)
Sec. 3-42. - Automatic revocation.
Whenever the state shall revoke any permit or license to sell alcoholic beverages at wholesale or retail in the city, the city license to sell at wholesale or retail shall thereupon be automatically revoked without further action by the mayor or council or any officer of the city.
(Code 1967, § 3-115)
Sec. 3-43. - Transferability.
The licenses granted under this article shall not be transferable from one (1) person to another and shall not be transferable from one (1) location to another, except with the prior approval of the city council.
(Code 1967, § 3-10)
Secs. 3-44—3-60. - Reserved.
ARTICLE III. - MALT BEVERAGES AND WINE

Sec. 3-61. - Additional requirements.
In addition to the general requirements for alcoholic beverages contained in articles I and II of this chapter, the additional requirements and regulations of this article shall apply to wholesale and retail sales of wine and malt beverages.
Sec. 3-62. - Excise tax—Malt beverages.
(a)
There is hereby levied and imposed upon all wholesale dealers selling malt beverages within the city a specific excise tax in the amount of 0.4166 cents per ounce of malt beverages sold by each wholesale dealer within the corporate limits, to be paid as follows:
EXPAND
Size of Container Tax Per Container
(bottle, can, etc.)
7 ounces ..... $ 0.0292
8 ounces .....   0.0333
12 ounces .....   0.0500
14 ounces .....   0.0583
16 ounces .....   0.0667
32 ounces .....   0.1333
½ barrel (15½ gallons) .....   6.00
1 barrel (31 gallons) .....  12.00
  (b)
No decal, stamp, or other identifying marking shall be required on malt beverages sold within the city.
(c)
Each wholesale dealer shall maintain accurate records showing the name and address of each person to whom sales or deliveries are made in the city, and the records shall show the quantities sold and delivered. Such records shall be made available to the clerk-treasurer.
(d)
The excise tax provided for the in this section shall be in addition to any license fee, tax or charge which may now or in the future be imposed upon the business of selling malt beverages at retail or wholesale within the corporate limits of the city.
(e)
The failure to make a timely report and remittance shall render a wholesale dealer liable for a penalty equal to twenty-five (25) percent of the total amount due during the first thirty-day period following the date such report and remittance were due and a further penalty of twenty-five (25) percent of the amount of such remittance for each successive thirty-day period or any portion thereof during which such report and remittance were not filed. The filing of a false or fraudulent report shall render the wholesale dealer making such report liable for a penalty equal to twenty-five (25) percent of the amount of the remittance which would be required under an accurate and truthful report.
(Code 1967, § 3-10)
Sec. 3-63. - Same—Wine.
(a)
In addition to the retail license fee, there is hereby levied an excise tax on wine computed at the rate of twenty-two cents ($0.22) per liter and a proportionate tax at the same rate on all fractional parts of a liter, which sum shall be collected on each liter by the wholesaler at the time of delivery to the retailer, and the tax shall be remitted on or before the tenth day of the month following the date of such sale.
(b)
Each wholesaler doing business in the city shall maintain a copy of each invoice showing the date, place, and license number of the retailer. Such records shall be maintained for a period of at least one (1) year and the records shall be open for inspection at any time by any authorized representative of the city.
(Code 1967, § 3-108)
Sec. 3-64. - Hours of operation—Malt beverages and wine sales.
(a)
Class A license (package store). A class A licensee shall not sell, dispense or deliver malt beverages or wine between the hours of 2:00 a.m. and 6:00 a.m., Monday through Saturday. A class A licensee shall not sell, dispense or deliver malt beverages or wine on Sunday except between the hours of 12:30 p.m. and 11:30 p.m.
(b)
Class B license (on-premises consumption).
(1)
Except as otherwise provided in subsection (3) below, a class B licensee shall not sell, dispense, serve or deliver malt beverages or wine except between the hours of 8:00 a.m. and 11:30 p.m. on Monday through Saturday.
(2)
A class B licensee must close its doors to business, must be vacated of all persons except the licensee and any on-duty paid employees or agents, and must cease to do business at or before 12:00 midnight and remain closed until 6:00 a.m. on each day of the week.
(3)
A class B licensee which derives at least fifty (50) percent of its total annual gross sales from the sale of prepared meals or food, or fifty (50) percent of its total annual gross income from the rental of rooms for overnight lodging, may sell, dispense, serve or deliver malt beverages or wine between the hours of 12:30 p.m. and 11:30 p.m. on Sunday.
(c)
A class B licensee may remain open and continue to sell, dispense, serve or deliver malt beverages and wine until 1:00 a.m. on New Year's Day.
(Ord. No. 17-5, § 2, 10-9-17)
Sec. 3-65. - Same—Wholesale distribution.
The hours of operation of wholesalers for the distribution of malt beverages and wine shall be between the hours of 6:00 a.m. and 6:00 p.m.
Secs. 3-66—3-80. - Reserved.
ARTICLE IV. - DISTILLED SPIRITS, CLASS A

Sec. 3-81. - Additional requirements.
In addition to the general requirements for alcoholic beverages contained in articles I and II of this chapter, the additional requirements and regulations in this article shall apply for class A (retail sales for consumption off premises) of distilled spirits.
Sec. 3-82. - Applicant's bond.
All applications for retail sales of distilled spirits shall contain a personal performance bond in the amount of five hundred dollars ($500.00) made payable to the city and conditioned upon the faithful observance of this chapter and its regulations.
(Code 1967, § 3-46)
Sec. 3-83. - Age and residency requirements for license applicants.
No class A distilled spirits license shall be granted to any person unless such person is at least twenty-one (21) years of age and has been a resident of the city for a minimum of one (1) year prior to filing an application for such license. The same requirements apply for a corporation.
(Code 1967, § 3-34)
Sec. 3-84. - Number of licenses issuable to one person; city employees ineligible to receive license.
(a)
Only two (2) retail distilled spirits licenses shall be issued to any one (1) person in the city, and no person who holds a retail distilled spirits license in any other county or municipality of the state shall be eligible to receive a retail distilled spirits license.
(b)
No employee or official nor a spouse of an employee or official of the city shall be eligible to receive a retail distilled spirits license.
(Code 1967, § 3-35)
Sec. 3-85. - General requirements for business premises.
No retail distilled spirits license shall be issued to any person unless the building in which the business will be located is complete and detailed plans of the building and outside premises are attached to the application or unless proposed plans and specifications and a building permit of a proposed building to be built are attached to the application. The completed building or the proposed building shall comply with the ordinances of the city, regulations of the state revenue commissioner and the laws of the state. The proposed building shall also be subject to final inspection and approval when completed by the code enforcement officer. Each building in which the business will be located shall contain sufficient lighting so that the building itself and the premises on all sides of the building are readily visible at all times from the front of the street on which the building is located so as to reveal the inside retail area of the building and so as to reveal all of the outside premises of the building. Each applicant for a retail distilled spirits license shall attach to his application evidence of ownership of the building or proposed building or a copy of the lease if the applicant is leasing the building.
(Code 1967, § 3-38)
Sec. 3-86. - Hours of operation.
The hours of operation of class A licensees (package) for the sale of distilled spirits shall be between the hours of 8:00 a.m. and 11:30 p.m. Monday through Saturday, and on Sunday between the hours of 12:30 p.m. and 11:30 p.m.
(Ord. No. 2012-1, § 2, 2-13-12; Ord. No. 17-5, § 3, 10-9-17)
Sec. 3-87. - Excise tax.
(a)
In addition to the annual retail distilled spirits license fee required, there is hereby levied an excise tax which shall be paid to the governing authority on all distilled spirits sold, displayed, or stored in the city. The amount of such excise tax shall be twenty-two cents ($0.22) per liter of distilled spirits, and a proportionate tax at the same rate on all fractional parts of a liter. The tax shall be paid to the governing authority by the wholesale distributor on all distilled spirits sold to retailers in the city as follows: Each wholesale distributor selling, shipping, or in any way delivering distilled spirits to any retailer shall collect the excise tax at the time of delivery and shall remit the same together with a summary of all deliveries to each retailer on or before the tenth day of the month following.
(b)
It shall be unlawful and a violation of this article for any wholesale distributor to sell, ship or deliver in any manner any distilled spirits to a retailer without having collected the tax. It shall be unlawful and a violation of this article for any retailer to possess, own, hold, store, display or sell any distilled spirits on which such tax has not been paid. Each wholesaler shall be paid three (3) percent of the amount of taxes collected as reimbursed for collection of the tax.
(c)
Each wholesale distributor shall furnish to the governing authority a summary of all purchase invoices for distilled spirits sold to each retailer in the city on or before the tenth day of each month following such purchases. The invoices shall show the amount of excise tax paid.
(d)
Any duly appointed representative of the city may audit the records of any wholesale distributor and any retail licensee doing business in the city. The right of audit shall apply to any wholesale distributor who shall sell or deliver distilled spirits or wines to one (1) or more retail dealers in the city.
(Code 1967, § 3-47)
Secs. 3-88—3-105. - Reserved.
ARTICLE V. - DISTILLED SPIRITS, CLASS B

Sec. 3-106. - Additional requirements.
In addition to the general requirements for alcoholic beverages contained in articles I and II of this chapter, the additional requirements and regulations of this article shall apply for class B (retail sales for consumption on premises) of distilled spirits.
Sec. 3-107. - Separate license required for sale of malt beverages and wine.
A licensee for the sale of alcoholic beverages for consumption on the premises shall also have the right to serve malt beverages for consumption on the premises and/or wine for consumption on the premises, provided he shall secure a license therefor for each type of beverage.
Sec. 3-108. - Criteria for license issuance.
In addition to all other requirements, no license for consumption of distilled spirits on the premises shall be issued to any applicant who does not meet the requirements of a private club, restaurant, hotel or lounge.
(Code 1967, § 3-151)
Sec. 3-109. - Minimum size of containers.
No consumption-on-premises licensee may purchase distilled spirits in containers smaller than one-fifth gallon. The sale of distilled spirits by any consumption-on-premises licensee in unbroken packages or in any quantity for other than consumption on the premises is expressly prohibited.
(Code 1967, § 3-142)
Sec. 3-110. - Hours of operation.
(a)
Except as otherwise provided in subsection (3) below, a class B licensee (on-premises consumption) shall not sell, dispense, serve or deliver distilled spirits except between the hours of 8:00 a.m. and 11:30 p.m., Monday through Saturday.
(b)
A class B licensee must close its doors to business, must be vacated of all persons except the licensee and any on-duty paid employees or agents, and must cease to do business at or before 12:00 midnight and remain closed until 6:00 a.m. on each day of the week.
(c)
A class B licensee which derives at least fifty (50) percent of its total annual gross sales from the sale of prepared meals or food, or fifty (50) percent of its total annual gross income from the rental of rooms for overnight lodging, may sell, dispense, serve or deliver distilled spirits between the hours of 12:30 p.m. and 11:30 p.m. on Sunday.
(d)
A class B licensee may remain open and continue to sell, dispense serve or deliver malt beverages and wine until 1:00 a.m. on New Year's Day.
(Ord. No. 2009-20, § 1, 8-10-09; Ord. No. 17-5, § 3, 10-9-17)
Editor's note— Ord. No. 2009-20, § 1, adopted Aug. 10, 2009, deleted former § 3-110, and enacted a new § 3-110 as set out herein. Former § 3-110 pertained to the same subject matter and derived from Code 1967, § 3-139, Ord. of 2-12-96(1).
Sec. 3-111. - Closing times.
No restaurant-lounge, restaurant-pub, tavern, lounge, private club or other establishment licensed for the on premise retail sale of alcoholic beverages, as defined in this chapter, shall remain open to the public after the hour of 1:55 a.m.
(Ord. No. 2009-20, § 1, 8-10-09)
Editor's note— Ord. No. 2009-20, § 1, adopted Aug. 10, 2009, deleted former § 3-111, and enacted a new § 3-111 as set out herein. Former § 3-111 pertained to the same subject matter and derived from Ord. of 2-12-96(2).
ARTICLE VI. - MICROBREWERIES.

Sec. 3-150. - Microbrewery license authorized.
No individual shall be permitted to operate a microbrewery without first obtaining a proper microbrewery license from the city in the manner provided in this chapter, and each holder of a microbrewery license shall comply with the provisions of this chapter and all applicable state statutes, including rules and regulations promulgated by the Georgia Department of Revenue.
(Ord. No. 17-4, § 4, 8-4-17)
Sec. 3-151. - Tastings and direct-to-consumer sales from the licensed premises.
Tastings and direct-to-consumer sales from a licensed microbrewery premises shall be permitted in accordance with state law, as amended from time to time.
(Ord. No. 17-4, § 4, 8-4-17)
Sec. 3-152. - Hours of sale.
Notwithstanding any other provision of chapter 3, the hours of operation of a licensed microbrewery shall between the hours of 8:00 a.m. and 11:30 p.m., Monday through Saturday, and on Sunday between the hours of 12:30 p.m. and 11:30 p.m.
(Ord. No. 17-4, § 4, 8-4-17)
