ARTICLE XII. - BED AND BREAKFAST ESTABLISHMENTS[13]

Footnotes:
--- (13) ---
Editor's note— An ordinance adopted July 13, 1991, regarding the licensing of bed and breakfast establishments, did not specifically amend the Code and has been included herein as article XII at the discretion of the editor.

Sec. 6-316. - Definitions.
The following words, terms and phrases, when used in this article, shall have the meaning ascribed to them herein except where the context clearly indicates another meaning:
Bed and breakfast establishment means an owner occupied private residence which offers lodging for paying guests and which serves breakfast to those guests.
(Ord. of 7-13-91, § 10)
Sec. 6-317. - License.
(a)
Required. It shall be unlawful to operate a bed and breakfast establishment within the city without having first obtained a license.
(b)
Application. Application for said license shall be filed in person with the city clerk at least ten (10) days prior to the issuance of said license. The application must be made by the owner(s) and shall include the name and address of the owner(s), a drawing of the structure that is proposed as a bed and breakfast establishment showing the floor plan of the structure and indicating the rooms used for guests. The applicant(s) will also attest that they have read and understood the regulations applicable to bed and breakfast establishments.
(c)
Inspection. Any residence proposed for use as a bed and breakfast establishment shall be inspected by the city code enforcement officer for compliance with all applicable regulations, ordinances or laws of the city. A bed and breakfast establishment licensed by the city shall also be in compliance with all applicable regulations, ordinances or laws of the state or other governing authority having competent jurisdiction over bed and breakfast establishments.
(d)
Transferability. Any license for a bed and breakfast establishment shall not be transferable to another person(s), nor shall it be applicable to any premise other than the one licensed in the original application.
(e)
License revocable. Violation of city ordinances, state law or any applicable regulation, ordinance or law shall constitute grounds for revocation of the license by the mayor and aldermen.
(Ord. of 7-13-91, §§ 20—50, 120)
Sec. 6-318. - Operational specifications.
(a)
Owner required to live within establishment. Any structure licensed as a bed and breakfast establishment shall be operated by the owner and the owner shall be a fulltime resident.
(b)
Registration of guests. The licensee is required to keep a guest register. Each guest shall register on the date of their arrival, stating their names, current residence, address and a description and license plate number of the vehicle they are using. The guest register shall be kept by the licensee for at least three (3) years and made available for examination by a representative of the city on request.
(c)
Food service. The licensee shall provide a breakfast meal to registered guests only. No meals other than breakfast shall be served, and no cooking facilities shall be located in guest rooms.
(d)
Length of stay. Guest stays shall be limited to fourteen (14) consecutive days and no more than sixty (60) total days annually.
(Ord. of 7-13-91, §§ 60, 80—100)
Sec. 6-319. - Structural specifications.
(a)
Number of rooms, parking. The number of guest rooms in a bed and breakfast establishment shall not exceed three (3). Adequate parking spaces shall be available for each guest room.
(b)
Alterations to structure, signs. No exterior alterations may be made that would indicate the residence was housing a bed and breakfast establishment, except for a single identifying sign. Said sign may only identify the bed and breakfast establishment and is limited to two (2) square feet in size and mounted no greater than three and one-half (3½) feet in height above ground, measured from the highest part of the sign.
(Ord. of 7-13-91, §§ 70, 110)
