Chapter 7 - CEMETERIES[1]

Footnotes:
--- (1) ---
State Law reference— Criminal trespass and damage to property, O.C.G.A. § 16-7-20; preservation and protection of abandoned or unmaintained cemeteries, O.C.G.A. § 36-60-6.1; Georgia Cemetery Act of 1983, O.C.G.A. § 44-3-130.

Sec. 7-1. - City sexton—Election; compensation.
(a)
There shall be a city sexton elected annually by the city council at the time of election of the city clerk-treasurer, who shall hold his office at the pleasure of the council.
(b)
The sexton shall receive such compensation for his services as the city council shall annually fix at the time of his election.
(Code 1967, § 6-1)
Sec. 7-2. - Same—Duties.
(a)
It shall be the duty of the city sexton to superintend the digging of all graves and the burying of all dead bodies in the city.
(b)
Upon being notified of a funeral, he shall promptly make all necessary preparations and see that they are carried out.
(c)
He shall keep a record of the owners of lots in the cemeteries and shall not allow any corpse to be buried in a private lot without the authority of the owner.
(d)
He shall see that all rules, regulations and ordinances of the city in reference to the cemeteries are properly enforced, and report all violations of same.
(e)
He shall keep the walks and streets of the cemeteries in good order, and, if any bodies are removed to any other lot, he shall notify the city clerk-treasurer when this is done.
(Code 1967, § 6-2)
Sec. 7-3. - Burying outside of cemeteries.
No person shall bury, or cause to be buried, any dead person in any place in the city other than the public cemeteries.
(Code 1967, § 6-4)
Sec. 7-4. - Vaults required.
Standard burial vaults or other outside burial containers, approved by the sexton of the cemetery shall be required for burial in any cemetery within the corporate limits of the city.
(Code 1967, § 6-5)
Sec. 7-5. - Trespassing; removing property.
(a)
No person shall in anyway disturb any grave, deface, pull up or remove anything put or placed to mark a grave, or any paling or wall placed around a grave or burial enclosure, or remove any plank, post, timbers, brick, stone, in any enclosure in the cemeteries of the city.
(b)
No person shall mutilate, destroy, deface, injure or remove any tomb, monument, gravestone, or other structure placed in the cemeteries in this city, or any fence, railing or other work for the protection or ornamentation of any tomb, monument, gravestone or other structure, or for the ornamentation or protection of such cemeteries, or wilfully destroy, cut, break, remove or injure any trees, shrub, or plant that may have been planted, or that may be growing in such cemeteries or commit any trespass in the limits of such cemeteries.
(Code 1967, § 6-6)
Sec. 7-6. - Injurious trees to be removed.
There shall not be left standing in the cemeteries any trees that shall injure any monument or decorations in an adjoining lot by the drip of its leaves or otherwise; on complaint being made thereof to the sexton, it shall be his duty to notify the persons owning such tree, shrub or plant to remove the same. In case the owner thereof shall fail or refuse to do so, the sexton shall notify the proper committee, who, if they deem right and proper, shall order the sexton to remove or cause to be removed such tree, shrub or plant.
(Code 1967, § 6-7)
Sec. 7-7. - Disposal.
It shall be unlawful for any person, while working his lot or enclosure, to place upon the lot or enclosure of another, or in or upon any walk or street in the cemeteries any trash, grass or other refuse or litter of any description whatever, but he shall place the same where the city sexton shall direct.
(Code 1967, § 6-8)
Sec. 7-8. - Through traffic and parking prohibited in cemetery.
It shall be unlawful for any person owning a vehicle to drive or allow another to drive such vehicle over the driveways of the cemeteries as if such driveway were through streets. No vehicle shall be parked in cemetery after sunset each day.
(Code 1967, § 6-10)
