Chapter 21 - UTILITIES[1]
Footnotes:
--- (1) ---
Cross reference— Buildings and building regulations, Ch. 5; sewerage, Ch. 13; streets and sidewalks, Ch. 17; subdivisions, Ch. 18.

ARTICLE I. - IN GENERAL

Sec. 21-1. - Application for service.
Each prospective customer desiring electric, gas and water service may be required to sign a standard form of application for service or contract before service is supplied by the city.
(Code 1967, § 25-13)
Sec. 21-2. - Deposits.
(a)
A deposit for electric, gas and water service in an amount determined from time to time by city council shall be required for residential customers and commercial service. Deposit amounts shall be listed in the schedule of fees and charges, an official copy of which shall be available for public inspection in the office of the city clerk-treasurer.
(b)
Upon termination of service, the deposit may be applied by the city against unpaid bills of the customer, and, if any balance remains after such application is made, such balance shall be refunded to the customer. In no event will the deposit be returned to the customer if he has not been securing electricity, gas or water service from the city for at least sixty (60) days.
(Code 1967, §§ 25-14, 25-54, 25-80)
Sec. 21-3. - Inspections.
The city shall have the right, but shall not be obligated, to inspect any installation before electric, gas and water service is introduced or at any later time and reserves the right to reject any facilities not in accordance with the city's standards; but such inspection or failure to inspect shall not render the city liable or responsible for any loss or damage resulting from defects in the installation, wiring, plumbing or appliances, or from violation of the city's rules, or from accidents which may occur upon the customer's premises.
(Code 1967, § 25-15)
Sec. 21-4. - Customer's responsibility for city property.
All meters, service connections and other equipment furnished by the city shall be and remain the property of the city. The customer shall provide a space for and exercise proper care to protect the property of city on his premises. In the event of loss or damage to the city's property arising from neglect of the customer to care for same, the cost of necessary repairs or replacements shall be paid by the customer.
(Code 1967, § 25-16)
Sec. 21-5. - Right of entry; penalty for refusal.
(a)
Where the electric, gas or water meter is located on private property the city shall at all times have the right and authority, by and through its agent, servant, officer or employee, to go upon and enter such premises for the purpose of reading the meters, or to cut on or off the service, or make any such necessary repairs to the meters as it deems necessary, and, where any property owner or tenant refuses to allow the city or its proper authorized agent, officer or employee to enter such premises for the purposes above set out, the city shall have the right and authority to cut off the service from such premises at any other convenient place, and the services shall not be reinstated until the property owner or tenant shall have caused such meter to be removed and placed ready for service, at whatever place the city shall designate. The city shall not be liable for cutting off the water on such premises.
(b)
In circumstances where it is impracticable for a city employee to gain reasonable access to the meter for the purposes identified in subsection (a), the clerk-treasurer shall notify the customer by certified mail to remove such obstruction within ten (10) days. If such obstruction is not removed within the specified time, the city may remove the obstruction, and, if shrubbery or other property is damaged in the process, neither the city employee or city shall be liable.
(Code 1967, §§ 25-17, 25-79)
Sec. 21-6. - Discontinuance of service.
The city may refuse to connect or may discontinue electric, gas or water service for the violation of any of its rules and regulations, or for violation of any of the provisions of this Code or of the application of customer or contract with customer. The city may discontinue service to the customer for the theft of services or the appearance of theft devices on the premises of the customer. The discontinuance of service by the city for any causes as stated in this chapter does not release the customer from his obligation to the city for payment of minimum bills as specified in the application of the customer or the contract with the customer.
(Code 1967, § 25-18)
Sec. 21-7. - Billing.
(a)
Bills for electric, gas and water service will be rendered monthly, on or prior to the thirtieth day, and shall be paid by the end of the tenth day of each month or the city reserves the right to discontinue service. In no event shall the customer have less than ten (10) days to pay such bill.
(b)
If the bill for electric, gas and water service is not paid within ten (10) days, a late payment charge may be made in an amount determined from time to time by city council and listed in the schedule of fees and charges maintained in the clerk-treasurer's office.
(Code 1967, §§ 25-19, 25-85)
Sec. 21-8. - Reconnection charge.
Whenever electric, gas or water service has been discontinued by the city, a charge in an amount determined from time to time by city council and listed in the schedule of fees and charges maintained in the clerk-treasurer's office may be collected by the city before service is restored.
(Code 1967, §§ 25-20, 25-87)
Sec. 21-9. - Disclaimer for interruption of service.
The city shall use reasonable diligence to provide regular and uninterrupted electric, gas and water service, but, in case such service should be interrupted for any cause, the city shall not be liable for damages resulting therefrom.
(Code 1967, § 25-21)
Sec. 21-10. - Notice of trouble.
Customers shall notify the city immediately should electric, gas or water service be unsatisfactory for any reason, or should there be any defects, trouble or accidents affecting such services. Such notice, if verbal, should be confirmed in writing.
(Code 1967, § 25-24)
Sec. 21-11. - Rates.
The electric, gas and water rates applying to residences, commercial, industrial and business houses shall be such as may be established by the city council from time to time and listed in the schedule of fees and charges, an official copy of which is maintained in the office of the city clerk-treasurer.
(Code 1967, § 25-26)
Sec. 21-12. - Superintendent of the utilities department.
(a)
There shall be elected annually, at the regular meeting of the council when other officers are elected each year, a superintendent of the utilities department, who shall hold his office for one (1) year until his successor is elected and qualified, unless sooner removed by the city council. He shall give such bond and receive such compensation as the council shall prescribe.
(b)
The duties of the superintendent of the utilities department shall be as follows:
(1)
To take charge of and have general supervision over all the operations of the waterworks, the electric light and power plant, and the gas system and plant of the city.
(2)
To see that the rules, regulations and ordinances relating to the light, water and gas systems are enforced; to inspect the light, water and gas systems and connections in the city to see that they conform to the ordinances and regulations governing same.
(3)
To see that all contracts and specifications are fulfilled.
(4)
To report to the city council, upon request, the working conditions of the light, water, and gas systems and to make such suggestions and plans for the improvements and extensions as may be advantageous and necessary.
(Code 1967, § 25-1)
Sec. 21-13. - Prohibited acts; utilities.
(a)
It shall be unlawful for any person to maliciously or with intent to injure or defraud do or commit, aid or abet in the commission of any of the following acts:
(1)
Connect a tube, pipe, wire or other instruments or contrivances with a pipe or wires used for conducting or supplying illuminating gas, fuel gas, water, electricity or steam to any burner, orifice, lamp, motor or pipe where the same is or can be burned or used, without passing through the meter or instrument provided for registering the quantity consumed.
(2)
Destroy, alter or prevent the action of a meter or other instrument used to measure or register quantity of illuminating gas, fuel gas, electricity, water or steam consumed in a house or apartment or at an orifice, burner, lamp, motor or pipe, or detach or disconnect such meter or other instrument.
(3)
In any manner whatever change, extend or alter any service or other pipe, wire or attachment of any kind connecting or through which artificial gas, electricity, water or steam is furnished from the gas mains, pipes, wires or other source of supply.
(4)
Make connections or reconnections with the mains, service pipes or wires of any person furnishing to consumers artificial gas, electricity, water or steam, or turn on or off or in any manner interfere with any valve or stopcock or other appliance belonging to such person, and connected with the mains, service pipes or wires.
(5)
Retain possession of or refuse to deliver any meter or meter lamp or other appliance which may be or may have been loaned or rented by any person for the purpose of furnishing gas, steam, water or electricity through the same or sell, loan or in any manner dispose of the same to any person other than the person entitled to the possession of the same.
(6)
Set on fire any gas escaping from broken or leaking mains, pipes, valves or other appliances used by any person in conveying gas to consumers or interfere in any manner with the pipes, mains, gate boxes, valves, stopcocks, wires, cables, conduits or any other appliances, machinery or property of any person engaged in furnishing gas, electricity or steam.
(b)
Proof that any of the acts hereinabove specified was done on the premises in the possession of the accused or that the accused received the benefit of any such act shall be prima facie evidence that the accused committed such act or aided or abetted in the commission thereof maliciously or with intent to injure or defraud.
(Code 1967, § 25-2)
State Law reference— Damaging, injuring or interfering with property of public utility companies, O.C.G.A. § 16-7-25.
Sec. 21-14. - Interruption of electricity or gas.
(a)
The clerk-treasurer is hereby authorized to interrupt and cut off the electric power supply and the natural gas supply to the business, commercial and residential areas of the city at any time and from time to time and for such length of time as he shall deem necessary to effectively reduce the consumption of electricity and natural gas.
(b)
Insofar as is practical, advance notice of proposed interruptions shall be publicized through spot announcements on local radio stations, by publication in local newspapers and by any other means that may be available.
(Code 1967, § 25-3)
Secs. 21-15—21-40. - Reserved.
ARTICLE II. - ELECTRIC SYSTEM

Sec. 21-41. - Additional load.
The service connection, transformers, meters and equipment supplied by the city for each customer have definite capacity and no addition to the equipment or load connected thereto will be allowed except by consent of the city. Failure to give notice of additions or changes in load, and to obtain the city's consent for same, shall render the customer liable for any damage to any of the city's lines or equipment caused by the additional or changed installation.
(Code 1967, § 25-22)
Sec. 21-42. - Resale of service prohibited.
All purchased electric service used on the premises of any customer shall be supplied exclusively by the city, and the customer shall not directly or indirectly, sell, sublet, assign or otherwise dispose of, the electric service or any part thereof.
(Code 1967, § 25-23)
Sec. 21-43. - Nonstandard service.
The customer shall pay the cost of any special installation necessary to meet his peculiar requirements for service at other than standard voltages, or for the supply of closer voltage regulation than required by standard practice.
(Code 1967, § 25-25)
Sec. 21-44. - National Electrical Code adopted.
There is hereby adopted by reference the 1996 National Electric Code published by the National Fire Protection Association of Quincy, Massachusetts, together with all Georgia amendments and supplements, as the law of the city. Failure to do any act required or commission of any act prohibited by said code is punishable as provided in section 1-14 of this Code.
(Ord. of 9-10-90; Ord. of 11-11-96)
Secs. 21-45—21-65. - Reserved.
ARTICLE III. - GAS SYSTEM

Sec. 21-66. - Definitions.
The following terms used in this article shall be interpreted to have the following meanings:
Appliances means all stoves, heaters, hot water tanks, conversion units and any other devices for the use of gas.
Coated pipe means iron or steel pipe which has been thoroughly cleaned and coated with a coating equal to Bitumastic No. 4.
Customer means any person buying gas from the city system.
Customer's inlet means the location of the pipe at the customer's premises where gas is delivered to the customer.
Gas system means the transmission line of the city and the distribution mains within and adjacent to the city, together with all service lines, valves, meters, cocks, regulating equipment and other appurtenances owned by the city.
House piping means the piping in or around the house or building of the consumer.
Licensee means any person who has been licensed by the city to install house piping and appliances.
Main means a line, part of the distributing system, that transports gas.
Service lines means a line from the main to the consumer's inlet.
(Code 1967, § 12-1)
Sec. 21-67. - Powers and duties of code enforcement officer.
The code enforcement officer is hereby authorized, empowered and directed to inspect and supervise the installation, construction, reconstruction and repair of all house gas piping, gas appliances, fixtures and apparatus now or hereafter to be placed in or in any manner directly attached to any building or structure within the city. The code enforcement officer shall be subject to the orders and directions of the city council, and is hereby vested with full authority to enter any building, or premises, at any reasonable time in the discharge of his duties herein imposed.
(Code 1967, § 12-3)
Sec. 21-68. - Operation and maintenance of gas system.
The duties of the code enforcement officer shall be, in general, to operate and maintain the natural gas system owned by the city in a first class workmanlike condition at all times. He also shall see that all installations and service lines and house pipe should be done in such a manner that the customer will be served in a satisfactory manner with gas and that the safety of any person or property shall not be endangered. He is to perform his duties in accordance with the provisions of this article and to report to the city any violations thereof. All of his actions shall be subject to review by the city council and in all matters shall be final.
(Code 1967, § 12-4)
Sec. 21-69. - Permits.
It shall be the duty of the code enforcement officer to receive and consider all applications for gas connections and to approve or reject plans submitted and to issue permits for all gas connections, extension and change of location of appliances and to keep a daily record of all applications received and all plans approved and all other matters that pertain to his office.
(Code 1967, § 12-5)
Sec. 21-70. - Business license required.
Before any person shall be granted a permit to install or work on any gas system or appliance in the city such person shall first qualify for and obtain and have a privilege tax license from the city for engaging in such business and such purpose.
(Code 1967, § 12-15)
Sec. 21-71. - Gas fitters examination board.
There shall be and is hereby constituted a gas fitters examination board for the city, consisting of one (1) councilman, the mayor and the code enforcement officer.
(Code 1967, § 12-12)
Sec. 21-72. - License fee.
A license will be issued to such a qualified gas fitter upon payment of a fee in an amount for the first year. There will be a renewal fee in an amount for each succeeding year. All assistants of such licensee shall be under direct supervision of said licensee.
(Code 1967, § 12-13)
Sec. 21-73. - Fee.
The license fee for a gas fitter licensed under the provisions of this article shall be in an amount determined by the city council from time to time and listed in the schedule of fees and charges maintained in the clerk-treasurer's office.
(Code 1967, § 12-13)
Sec. 21-74. - Installations, repairs, to be done by licensed fitter; exception.
Only a person approved by the examining board as a qualified gas fitter and licensed by the city will be permitted to perform gas pipe or gas appliance installations or repairs to the gas system owned and serviced by the city, with the following exception: Any home or building owner who requests a permit to install in his own home or building any gas pipe and gas appliance and who, in the opinion of the code enforcement officer, is familiar with the requirements of this Code concerning the proper installation of the same and who is capable of making the proper installations shall be issued a permit for the necessary gas pipe and appliance installation without the necessity of having been licensed by the city as a certified gas fitter.
(Code 1967, § 12-14)
Sec. 21-75. - Location of meters.
Meters shall be located at a point satisfactory to the code enforcement officer, particular attention being given to the possibility of damage to the riser of the meter. No meter shall be located in a closed unventilated place. Meters shall be installed in such a manner that they are easily available for reading and servicing.
(Code 1967, § 12-6)
Sec. 21-76. - Certificate of approval prerequisite to setting meter.
The code enforcement officer shall be subject to the order and direction of the city council, and he is hereby vested with full authority to enter any building or premises at any time in the discharge of his duties and to pass upon and decide any question arising under the provisions of this article relative to the manner of construction or materials and devices to be used in the erection, alteration or repair of gas piping. Under this article the gas department shall not place a meter until the work is satisfactory to the code enforcement officer and until he has issued a certificate therefor.
(Code 1967, § 12-7)
Sec. 21-77. - Inspections.
(a)
Application for an inspection by the code enforcement officer, must be made by 9:00 a.m. on or before the day the inspection is to be made, and application for inspection must be accompanied by a fee as determined from time to time by the city council and listed in the schedule of fees and charges maintained in the clerk-treasurer's office.
(b)
In the presence of the code enforcement officer, all piping up to the stopcock at each appliance shall be filled with air at a pressure of five (5) pounds per square inch, and the piping must maintain this pressure for five (5) minutes. All piping must conform to the specifications of this article.
(c)
When this inspection has been completed and the piping system is approved by the code enforcement officer, the gas may be turned into the house piping system.
(d)
An additional inspection shall be made after all appliances have been connected and adjusted. If for any reason an installation does not pass these inspections, an additional inspection shall be made after the installation has been changed so as to conform to specifications. An inspection fee in an amount to be determined from time to time by the city council will be charged for each additional inspection made, and a certificate of inspection will be issued for each approved installation.
(Code 1967, § 12-8)
Sec. 21-78. - Installations to be tested and approved; certificate of approval, meter information to be filed.
Every licensee shall test every installation either by pressure or vacuum in a manner satisfactory to the code enforcement officer. This test shall include all house pipe and appurtenances up to and including the shut-off cock of the appliance. No appliance shall be installed without the licensee notifying the code enforcement officer. The code enforcement officer shall witness such test and, when test is satisfactory, sign a certificate that such test has been made at a certain time for a certain location and for a certain number of outlets. Such certificates shall be filed in the city hall before any gas is turned into this house pipe. The code enforcement officer shall specify the size of the meter and regulators that are used in each installation and shall report the date of the installation together with the make and number of the regulator and meter installed.
(Code 1967, § 12-9)
Sec. 21-79. - Records of installations, etc.
The code enforcement officer shall keep accurate records of the size installations of services, the date of such installations, the number, description, location and make of each regulator and meter installed.
(Code 1967, § 12-10)
Sec. 21-80. - Location of lock wing cock.
Each house service shall have in a place readily available a lock wing cock on the riser below the regulator. Except in an emergency it shall be unlawful for anyone except the code enforcement officer to open or close this cock.
(Code 1967, § 12-11)
Sec. 21-81. - Minimum charge and interim charge.
A minimum charge in an amount to be determined from time to time by the city council and listed in the schedule of fees and charges maintained in the clerk-treasurer's office per month will be made for each service line and meter installed. In the event service is discontinued at the request of the customer and later resumed, the customer shall pay to the city a reconnection charge in an amount to be determined from time to time by the city council and listed in the schedule of fees and charges maintained in the clerk-treasurer's office.
(Code 1967, § 25-55)
Sec. 21-82. - Standard Gas Code adopted.
There is hereby adopted by reference the 1994 Georgia Minimum Standard Gas Code with 1995 amendments, published as the 1994 Standard Gas Code with 1995 amendments by the Southern Building Code Congress International, Inc., of Birmingham, Alabama, together with all Georgia amendments and supplements, as the law of the city. Failure to do any act required or commission of any act prohibited by said code is punishable as provided in section 1-14 of this Code.
(Ord. of 9-10-91; Ord. of 11-11-96)
Secs. 21-83—21-100. - Reserved.
ARTICLE IV. - WATER SYSTEM

Sec. 21-101. - Municipal waterworks.
The municipal waterworks shall be under the immediate control and supervision of the superintendent of the utilities department, who shall perform all acts that may be necessary for the prudent, efficient, and economical management and protection of the waterworks, subject to the approval and confirmation of the city council.
Sec. 21-102. - Right of entry; disconnection from system.
The superintendent of the utilities department shall have the right to enter at any reasonable time any property served by the public water supply system for the purpose of inspecting the piping systems thereon to ascertain if any cross connections, auxiliary intakes, bypasses, interconnections or other similar arrangements exist. On request, the owner, lessee, occupant, or other person in charge of the premises shall furnish to the city any pertinent information regarding the piping systems on such property. The refusal to supply such information or to refuse access when requested shall be deemed to be evidence of the presence of prohibited cross connections, auxiliary intakes, bypasses, interconnections or other similar arrangements, and the superintendent of the utilities department shall have the right to take such steps as he may deem necessary to terminate the connection of such premises with the public water supply system of the city.
Sec. 21-103. - Application for water.
Application for the use of water shall be made to the city clerk-treasurer by the owner or agent of the property to be benefitted, designating the location of the property and stating the purpose for which the water may be required.
Sec. 21-104. - Tapping charge.
(a)
Upon the application for a new tap and service connection by any consumer within the corporate limits of the municipality, the applicant shall pay the city clerk-treasurer a tap charge in the amount to be determined from time to time by the city council and listed in the schedule of fees maintained in the clerk-treasurer's office.
(b)
The city shall own and maintain the water line from the main to the curb box, and the property owner shall own and maintain the service line from the curb box to the premises served.
(c)
All work upon the service line shall be performed by a licensed plumber.
Sec. 21-105. - Size of service tap.
No service tap shall be more than three-fourth inch in diameter, provided that the superintendent of the utilities department may grant permission for larger taps where the water supply and service facilities are sufficient to permit such taps. Where larger taps are permitted, a tap charge in the amount to be determined from time to time by the city council and listed in the schedule of fees maintained in the clerk-treasurer's office shall be imposed.
Sec. 21-106. - Water meters.
Each building or structure using city water shall have a water meter installed by the city, which may be installed either in a curb box or inside of the building at the option of the property owner. All such meters are the property of the city. No water meter shall be placed in or adjacent to any proposed structure the location of which would be within the flood hazard boundaries as shown on the Federal Insurance Administration Flood Hazard Boundary Map, and the construction of which would require the placement of fill material in order to comply with the building regulations of the city.
(Ord. of 2-12-01)
Sec. 21-107. - Service line regulations.
No more than one (1) building shall be permitted to use a water service line. Only approved pipe shall be used for the installation of a service line, and all service lines shall be installed at a depth at least forty (40) inches below the surface of the ground. Each service line shall contain a stop and waste cock where the water may be turned off.
Sec. 21-108. - Water waste prohibition.
Consumers shall prevent unnecessary waste of water and keep all water outlets closed when not in actual use. Hydrants, urinals, water closets, bath tubs, and other fixtures must not be left running for any purpose other than the use for which they were intended. When any such waste occurs, the water service may be terminated.
Sec. 21-109. - Usage restrictions.
In case of water shortage or scarcity, the city council may by resolution place any restrictions upon the use of water for irrigation, sprinkling or any other purposes which such body deems necessary.
Sec. 21-110. - Use of water during fire alarms.
During all fire alarms, the use by persons other than municipal firefighters of hoses and other apparatus maintaining a constant flow of water is absolutely forbidden.
Sec. 21-111. - Standard Plumbing Code adopted.
There is hereby adopted by reference the 1994 Georgia Minimum Standard Plumbing Code with 1995 amendments, published as the 1994 Standard Plumbing Code with 1995 amendments by the Southern Building Code Congress International, Inc., of Birmingham, Alabama, together with all Georgia amendments and supplements, as the law of the city. Failure to do any act required or commission of any act prohibited by said code is punishable as provided in section 1-14 of this Code.
(Ord. of 9-10-91; Ord. of 11-11-96)
Secs. 21-112—21-114. - Reserved.
ARTICLE V. - DUE COMPENSATION TO CITY[2]
Footnotes:
--- (2) ---
Editor's note— Ord. No. 2009-19, §§ 1, 2, adopted Aug. 10, 2009, set out provisions intended for use as Art. X. For purposes of classification, and at the editor's discretion, these provisions have been included as Art. V.

DIVISION 1. - TELEGRAPH OR TELEPHONE COMPANY

Sec. 21-115. - Due compensation from telephone companies with end user retail customers within the city.
(a)
The city hereby requires due compensation of three (3) percent of actual recurring local service revenues, as defined in paragraphs (8) and (9) of subsection (b) of O.C.G.A. § 46-5-1; provided, however, that any company which pays in excess of three (3) percent of actual recurring local service revenues pursuant to an existing franchise agreement shall continue to pay in accordance with the agreement until the expiration of the franchise agreement or December 31, 2012, whichever occurs first, and any company which pays in excess of three (3) percent of actual recurring local service revenues in accordance with an occupational license tax arrangement shall continue to pay in accordance with such payment schedule until December 31, 2012.
(b)
Regarding any telephone company that does not have retail, end user customers located within the city's municipal boundaries, the payment by such company to a municipal authority in accordance with the rates set by regulations promulgated by the department of transportation for the use of its rights-of-way shall be considered the payment of due compensation.
(Ord. No. 2009-19, § 1, 8-10-09)
Sec. 21-116. - Authorized designee.
The city manager or his/her designee, shall, on behalf of the city, exercise day-to-day administrative duties necessary to fulfill the regulatory authority of the city under O.C.G.A. § 46-5-1 et seq. and shall perform the following duties:
(1)
Review application information submitted by a telephone company to the city and, if an application is incomplete, notify the telegraph or telephone company within fifteen (15) business days of the receipt of such application, identifying in such notice all application deficiencies.
(2)
Report the receipt of a completed application to the council within sixty (60) calendar days of the receipt of such completed application.
(3)
Review payments of due compensation submitted by the company to ensure compliance with the provisions of the amended law and this chapter.
(4)
Provide a coordination function between a telephone company and all city departments on any matter relating to the amended law and this chapter.
(5)
Arrange and evaluate, no more than once a year, a comprehensive review of the records of a company which is reasonably related to the calculation and payment of due compensation.
(6)
Provide to all telegraph and telephone companies located in its rights of way written notice of annexations and changes in municipal corporate boundaries.
(Ord. No. 2009-19, § 2, 8-10-09)
