ARTICLE V. - PEDDLERS AND SOLICITORS[6]

Footnotes:
--- (6) ---
State Law reference— Disabled veterans and blind persons engaging in peddling, O.C.G.A. § 43-12-1; Georgia Charitable Solicitations Act of 1988, O.C.G.A. § 43-17-1 et seq.; peddlers and itinerant traders, O.C.G.A. § 43-32-1 et seq.; Transient Merchants Act of Georgia, O.C.G.A. § 43-46-1 et seq.
Editor's note— Ord. of 9-13-04, repealed the former Art. V, §§ 6-106—6-113, and enacted a new Art. V, §§ 6-101—6-109 as set out herein. The former Art. V, §§ 6-106—6-113 pertained to similar subject matter. See the Code Comparative Table for complete derivation.

Sec. 6-101. - Purpose.
The purpose of this article is to promote the health, safety and welfare of residents of the city; to protect the privacy of residents of the city; and to prevent fraud and crime against residents of the city.
(Ord. of 9-13-04)
Sec. 6-102. - Definitions.
The following words, terms and phrases, when used in this article, shall have the meanings ascribed to them in this section, except where the context clearly indicates a different meaning:
Applicant means any person who applies for a permit under this article.
Begging shall mean asking for money or goods as a gift, whether by words, bodily gestures, signs or other means.
Canvass or canvassing means such activities as are directed at dissemination of religious, political or public interest information, taking polls, seeking opinions and determining attitudes of individuals or groups of individuals including uninvited contact at any residence by any institution, organization or cause having a charitable purpose as defined in this section for purposes of making the message, aim or purpose of such institution, organization or cause known to the occupant of such residence, but shall not include the solicitation of funds as defined in this section or the sale of goods.
Charitable purpose means philanthropic, benevolent, religious, public interest or other nonprofit objectives, including the benefit of poor, needy, sick, refugee or handicapped persons; the benefit of any recognized church or religious society, sect, group, order or cause; the benefit of a patriotic or veterans' association or organization; the benefit of any fraternal, social or civic organization; or the benefit of any educational, environmental, civic or public interest institution, organization, or cause. The term "charitable purpose" shall not be construed to include the direct benefit of the individual making the solicitation.
City means the City of West Point, Georgia.
Code means the Code of Ordinances of the City of West Point, Georgia.
Individual means only a natural person.
Intimidation shall mean the coercion, threat, or frightening into submission or obedience of one person unto another whether by words, bodily gestures, or other means.
Local nonprofit organization shall mean any bona fide charitable or nonprofit organization having an office, place of business, chapter or the like located in the corporate limits of the city or in Troup or Harris Counties, Georgia or Chambers County, Alabama.
Peddler means any person who goes to any residence or place of business, without prior invitation of the resident or occupier thereof, for the purpose of selling, offering for sale or exposing for sale any goods, merchandise, wares or services; or for the purpose of taking orders for the purchase of goods, merchandise, wares or services, whether by samples, catalogs or the like; or for the purpose of selling subscriptions to periodicals or magazines.
The term "peddler" does not include the sale or offering for sale of goods or services or the solicitation of donations by representatives of local nonprofit organizations. The term "peddler" means a single natural person; each peddler shall comply with all sections of this article.
Peddling means any of the activities described in the definition of "peddler," immediately above.
Person means any natural person, corporation, partnership or other entity that has legal existence under Georgia law.
Public place shall mean any road, alley, lane, parking area, sidewalk, building, or any place, private or otherwise, adopted or fitted for vehicular or pedestrian travel, that is in common use by the public with the consent, expressed or implied, of the owner or owners, and further, any public playground, school grounds, recreational facility, parks, parkways, park drives, park paths, and rights-of-way open to the use of the public.
Residence means and includes every separate living unit occupied for residential purposes by one (1) or more persons contained within any type of building or structure.
Resident means any individual residing, temporarily or permanently, within the corporate limits of the city.
Solicit funds, solicitation of funds or soliciting funds means any request for the donation of money, property, or anything of value, or the pledge of a future donation of money, property, or anything of value; or the selling or offering for sale of any property, real or personal, tangible or intangible, whether of value or not, including, but not limited to, goods, books, food stuffs, pamphlets, publications or subscriptions to publications or brochures, upon the representation, express or implied, that the proceeds of such sale will be used for a charitable purpose as such term is defined in this section. A "solicitor of funds" is also included in this definition. A solicitation of funds is complete when the solicitation is communicated to any individual when located within the corporate limits of the city.
Sunset means the official time of sunset as determined by the U.S. Naval Observatory Astronomical Applications Department converted to eastern prevailing time.
(Ord. of 9-13-04)
Sec. 6-103. - Application required for peddlers.
Any person desiring to engage in peddling within the corporate limits within the city shall pay, in cash at the time of the submission of the application, a non-refundable regulatory fee, to defer in part the city's cost, of seventy-five dollars ($75.00) and shall provide, on an application form to be supplied by the city clerk, the following information:
(1)
The name and physical description of the applicant;
(2)
Local and legal addresses of the applicant;
(3)
The time period within which the peddling effort is to be made, giving the date of beginning of the effort and the projected date of conclusion;
(4)
A description of the methods and means by which the peddling is to be accomplished;
(5)
If employed or acting as agent for another, the name and address of the employer;
(6)
If a vehicle is to be used, a description of vehicle with license number;
(7)
If the person registering is unable to provide any of the foregoing information, an explanation of the reasons why such information is not available;
(8)
A statement to the effect that if a permit is granted, such permit will not be used as or represented to be an endorsement by the city or any of its elected officials or employees;
(9)
The application must be signed by the applicant and swear or affirm before an officer authorized to administer oaths that he or she has carefully read the application and that all the information contained therein is true and correct;
(10)
A copy of the permit issued by the sales and Use Tax Division of the Georgia Department of Revenue shall be attached to and become a part of the application;
(11)
A copy of the applicants drivers license or other valid state issued identification;
(12)
Filing of an application for a permit under this section constitutes informed consent by the applicant for the police department to obtain the criminal history of the applicant;
(13)
The fingerprints and photograph of all applicants will be taken by the police department and attached to the application.
(Ord. of 9-13-04)
Sec. 6-104. - Review, qualification, disqualification for permit.
After a review of the application to determine its compliance with section 6-103 and within three (3) working days of the receipt of the application, the city clerk shall either issue a permit as provided in section 6-103 or notify the applicant that the application does not comply with the requirements of section 6-105 and shall specifically designate the reason for disqualification.
Applicants for a permit shall be disqualified for any reason enumerated below:
(1)
Any incomplete application;
(2)
Any false statement on the application;
(3)
Conviction of the applicant within five (5) years for any felony;
(4)
Conviction of any charge which would require registration on the Georgia Sex Offender Registry if the applicant was a resident of the State of Georgia;
(5)
Conviction of a misdemeanor involving fraud or a crime of moral turpitude within one (1) year of the date of the application.
(Ord. of 9-13-04)
Sec. 6-105. - Form of permit.
(a)
The city clerk shall prescribe the form of and issue a permit to each applicant who complied with the provisions of section 6-103 and not been disqualified for cause under the provisions of section 6-104, upon payment of an occupancy tax of twenty dollars ($20.00). However, each such permit shall contain the following language:
"The issuance of this permit is not an endorsement of the permittee or its products by the City of West Point or any of its elected officials or employees."
(b)
Each permit shall bear a registration number which is the same as the file containing the registration statement filed by the applicant.
(c)
No more than three (3) permits shall be issued to any one (1) applicant in any calendar year.
(Ord. of 9-13-04)
Sec. 6-106. - Peddler's identification cards.
(a)
The city clerk shall prescribe the form of and issue identification cards for peddlers subject to the following requirements. Each such identification card shall bear the name of the peddler, the registration number, the name of the peddling organization or entity, as may be applicable, and the expiration date of the permit. Each identification card shall have printed prominently thereon and shall read:
"This identification card is not an endorsement by the City of West Point or any of its elected officials or employees of any product or service sold by the bearer hereof."
(b)
The city clerk shall issue each person who has complied with the provisions of section 6-104 an identification card. The person successfully obtaining a permit may obtain a replacement identification card by paying to the city the actual cost of each such additional card and providing a sworn affidavit as to the reason necessitating the replacement.
(Ord. of 9-13-04)
Sec. 6-107. - Expiration of permit.
Every permit and identification card issued by the city clerk shall expire at the termination of the period specified in the application or ninety (90) days from the date of issuance, whichever is less. If an extension of the peddling effort is desired at the end of the shorter period of time referred to in this section, a new application shall be completed and signed by the applicant with all other provisions of this article to be in full force and effect therewith, but in no circumstances shall the period of extension exceed the ninety day period for which the permit would have been issued. If an extension for time is made for a peddling effort pursuant to this section, no additional application fee or permit fee shall be charged.
(Ord. of 9-13-04)
Sec. 6-108. - Unlawful peddling, canvassing or soliciting funds.
(a)
It shall be unlawful for any person to engage in peddling within the corporate limits of the city unless such person shall have first obtained a permit from the city clerk, as provided in this article.
(b)
It shall be unlawful for any individual to engage in peddling without visibly displaying the identification card issued that individual by the city clerk as provided in this article.
(c)
It shall be unlawful for any individual to alter an identification card issued by the city clerk. Any card issued by the city clerk that is in error may be exchanged for a corrected card.
(d)
It shall be unlawful for an individual to engage in peddling while displaying an identification card issued by the city clerk in the name of another individual.
(e)
It shall be unlawful to peddler, canvass or to solicit funds between the hours of sunset and 9:00 a.m. eastern prevailing time.
(f)
It shall be unlawful for any person, directly or through an agent or employee, to engage in peddling within the corporate limits of the city after the expiration of any permit issued as provided in this article.
(g)
It shall be unlawful for the peddler to engage in any peddling activity other than that set out in the application;
(h)
Any peddler, canvasser, solicitor of funds, or person selling goods or services on behalf of a local nonprofit organization who enters on private property shall immediately and peacefully depart such private premises, when requested by the resident of such private premises, and the failure of such peddler, canvasser, solicitor of funds or person selling goods or services on behalf of a local nonprofit organization to depart the private premises after being so requested shall be unlawful.
(i)
It shall be unlawful for any person who engages in peddling within the corporate limits of the city to represent in connection with such peddling that the issuance of a permit or an identification card by the city constitutes an endorsement or approval of the purposes of such peddling effort by the city or any elected official or employee thereof.
The penalty for violations under this section shall be assessed under the provisions of section 1-14 of this Code.
(Ord. of 9-13-04)
Sec. 6-109. - Posted notice that peddlers, canvassers, or solicitors of funds are not invited.
It shall be unlawful for any peddler to ring the bell or knock at the door of any residence, dwelling or other premise where a sign bearing the words "No Peddlers", "No Solicitors" or words of similar meaning is painted or affixed so as to be reasonably exposed to public view. This prohibition shall apply to all peddlers and solicitors, including those exempt from the permit requirements of section 6-102.
(Ord. of 9-13-04)
Secs. 6-110—6-135. - Reserved.
