PART I - CHARTER[1]
Footnotes:
--- (1) ---
Editor's note— Ord. of 8-08-05, § 1, deleted in its entirety, the former Arts. I—X and App. I., and enacted a new Arts. I—VII as set out herein. The former Arts. I—X and App. I, pertained to in general, mayor and aldermen, officers and employees, courts, elections, taxation, licenses and business regulations, utilities, improvements, flood control and Constitutional Amendments. 1. A motion was passed in regular monthly city council meeting on Aug. 8, 2005 to adopt a revised charter for the City of West Point. 2. A motion was passed in a regular monthly city council meeting on Sept. 12, 2005 to officially adopt a revised charter for the City of West Point. See the Charter Comparative Table for complete derivation. Printed here in as originally adopted on Sept. 12, 2005.

ARTICLE I. - IN GENERAL

Sec. 1. - City incorporated; constituted body corporate, politic.
The inhabitants of the territory now embraced in the corporate limits of the City of West Point, located in the Counties of Troup and Harris and State of Georgia, be, and they are hereby incorporated under the name and style of the City of West Point, and by that name shall be, and are, hereby invested with all the rights and powers and privileges incident to municipal corporations in this state, and all the rights, powers, as heretofore incorporated, shall be and are hereby vested in the City of West Point created by Georgia Laws 1900, Page 474 (the "Act"). And the said City of West Point, created by the Act, may sue and be sued, contract and be contracted with, plead and implead, have and use a common seal, make and enact through its mayor and city council, such ordinances, rules, regulations, titles, property, easements and hereditaments now belonging and resolutions for the transaction of its business and the welfare and proper government of said city as to said mayor and city council may seem best and which shall be consistent with the laws of the State of Georgia, and the United States and the said City of West Point shall be able, in law, to purchase, hold, receive, enjoy, possess and retain in perpetuity, personal, lands, tenements, hereditaments of what kind and nature soever within the limits or without the limits of said city for corporate purposes. Said City of West Point, created by this Act, is hereby made responsible as a corporate body for all the legal debts, liabilities and undertakings of said City of West Point as heretofore incorporated.
(Ga. Laws 1987, p. 3784)
Sec. 2. - Corporate limits.
The corporate limits of the City of West Point shall be as follows:
All of fractional Land Lots 57-58 and 59 lying on the west side of the Chattahoochee River in the 16th. Land District of what was Carroll but is now Troup County, Georgia; the above area being bounded on the west by the Georgia-Alabama State Line.
Also: Fractional Land Lots 316-317-318, a portion of 277-275 and 286, the whole of 283.284-285 and 276, all in the 5th. Land District, Troup County, Georgia, lying on the east side of the Chattahoochee River.
Also: Fractional Land Lot 319, a portion of Fractional Land Lot[s] 320 and 281; a portion of Land Lot[s] 282 and 278 in the 5th. Land District, Harris County, Georgia, lying on the east side of the Chattahoochee River is more fully described as follows, to-wit: Begin at a point where the center line of the Georgia Power Company high tension tower line intersects the northeast bank of the Chattahoochee River in Fractional Land Lot No. 320; thence as a physical marker follow said high tension line a northeasterly direction until the same intersects the east margin of Land Lot No. 282 for a corner; thence in a northerly direction along the Land Lot Line between Land Lot No. 282 on the west and Land Lot No. 277 on the east for 350 feet, more or less, to a concrete monument located on the north margin of Old Georgia Highway No. 103, which is also East Sixth Street; thence in a southeasterly direction along the north margin of said Street for 459.2 feet to the point of intersection of the north margin of Old Georgia Highway No. 103 and the northwest margin of Federal Highway No. 185; thence in a northeasterly direction along the northwest margin of Federal Highway No. 185 for 1482.8 feet, more or less, to the point of intersection of the northwest margin of Federal Highway No. 185 and the south margin of Land Lot No. 277 in the 5th. Land District of Troup County, Georgia (said last named point being the point of intersection of the northwest margin of Federal Highway No. 185 and the Troup County, Georgia-Harris County, Georgia County Line); thence in an easterly direction along the Troup County-Harris County Line for 7496.8 feet, more or less, to the southeast corner of Land Lot No. 224; thence north along the east margin of Land Lot No. 224 for 2970 feet, more or less, to the northeast corner of Land Lot No. 224; thence west along the north margin of Land Lot No. 224 for 2970 feet to the northeast corner of Land Lot No. 224, which is also the southeast corner of Land Lot No. 236; thence in a northerly direction along the east margin of Land Lot No. 236 for 1485 feet, more or less, to the mid-point of Land Lot No. 236; thence west along the mid-point line of Land Lot No. 236 for 2970 feet, more or less, to the east margin of Land Lot No. 276; thence north along the east margin of Land Lot No. 276 to the northeast corner; thence west along the north margin of Land Lot No. 276 to the southeast margin of the A. & W. P. Railroad right-of-way for a corner; thence north parallel with the north and south Land Lot Line 1485 feet, more or less, to center of Land Lot No. 275 for a corner; thence west parallel with the east and west Land Lot Line 1485 feet, more or less, to an iron pin located on the west margin of U. S. Highway No. 29 for a corner; thence in a northeasterly direction along the west margin of U.S. Highway No. 29, for 1760 feet, more or less, to the south margin of what is known as the Garland Road for a corner; thence east along the south margin of said road and parallel with the east and west Land Lot Line 1935 feet, more or less, to the north and south one-half Land Lot Line of Land Lot 286; thence south parallel with the north and south Land Lot Line for 250 feet, more or less, to the north margin of Land Lot 285 for a corner; thence west along the north margin of Land Lot 285 and fractional Land Lot 316 to the east bank of the Chattahoochee River for a corner; thence in a southerly direction along the east bank of said river to the beginning point.
(Ga. Laws 1987, p. 3784)
ARTICLE II. - MAYOR AND COUNCIL

Sec. 3. - Municipal government vested in mayor and council members.
The government of said city shall be vested in a mayor and six council members. The present mayor and council members of the City of West Point shall continue in office until the expiration of the term for which they were elected, and until their successors are elected and qualified; and they and their successors and associated shall have and exercise all the rights, powers and duties hereby conferred on the mayor and council members of said City of West Point created by the Act.
(Ga. Laws 1987, p. 3784)
Sec. 4. - Powers generally.
The mayor and council members of said city shall have full power and authority to pass by-laws and ordinances respecting public buildings and grounds, regulations and ordinances for the prevention and punishment of disorderly conduct and conduct liable to disturb the peace and tranquility of any citizen or citizens thereof, and any other by-law, regulation, and ordinance that they may deem proper for the security of the peace, health, order and good government of said city.
(Ga. Laws 1987, p. 3784)
Sec. 5. - General penalty for violation of ordinances.
The mayor and council members shall have full power and authority to prescribe by ordinances adequate penalties for all offenses against the ordinances of said city, in ways hereinbefore provided for, and to punish offenses by fines and/or imprisonment not exceeding the limits prescribed by state law for each offense, or both, to enforce the payment of fines, to compel offenders and those who refuse to pay said fines to work on the streets or public works of said city. They shall have power to compel offenders sentenced to imprisonment in the city jail, as aforesaid, to labor on public works or on the streets to be regulated by ordinance.
(Ga. Laws 1987, p. 3784)
Sec. 6. - Conflict of interests.
It shall not be lawful for the mayor or any council member to be interested either directly or indirectly, in any contract with the City of West Point, the mayor and council members, or any one of them, having for its object public improvement of the city or any part thereof, or for material to be used for such purpose or the expenditure of its moneys. Nor shall the mayor or any council member be involved with or have any interest in any matter which involvement and/or interest shall be deemed to be a conflict of interest as such is defined and described under any applicable state or federal law, rule, or regulation. Any violation of this section by the mayor or council member, or any one of them, shall be punished as provided by law.
(Ga. Laws 1987, p. 3784)
Sec. 7. - Qualifications for mayor and council members.
No person shall be eligible to the office of mayor or council member of said city unless he or she shall have met all qualifications for such candidacy as set forth in the Constitution and statutes of the State of Georgia.
(Ga. Laws 1987, p. 3784)
Sec. 8. - Terms of office; filling vacancy.
The date for the conduct of municipal elections for the city shall be as established by the laws and Constitution of the State of Georgia. On such election date in every fourth year an election shall be held for a mayor whose term of office shall be four years and until his successor is elected and qualified. On the date set by state law for the conduct of municipal elections and biennially thereafter there shall be held an election at which three council members shall be elected for a term of four years to succeed the council members whose terms of office shall have expired at the date of such election. Such council members shall hold office until their successors are elected and qualified.
If any vacancy occurs in said council, the vacancy shall be filled, for the unexpired term, by the mayor and council.
If any vacancy occurs in the office of mayor, the vacancy shall be filled, for the unexpired term, by the then sitting Mayor pro tem; provided, however, that if such vacancy occurs within the first sixteen months of the vacated mayor's term, the Mayor pro tem shall serve only until his successor is elected and takes office as hereinafter provided.
If such vacancy in the office of mayor occurs within the first sixteen months of the vacated mayor's term, a special election shall be held in conjunction with the next general municipal election following such vacancy for the purpose of electing a mayor to serve the balance of the vacated mayor's unexpired term. The person so elected shall take office on the second Monday in January immediately following such special election.
If any vacancy occurs in the office of Mayor subsequent to the expiration of sixteen months of the vacated mayor's term the Mayor pro tem shall serve the remainder of the vacated mayor's unexpired term.
(Ga. Laws 1987, p. 3784)
Sec. 9. - Time for taking office; oath.
On the second Monday in January, each year, the persons elected to the office of mayor and council members shall appear at the council chamber in said city and take and subscribe before some judicial officer, or the mayor of said city then in office, the following oath:
"I do solemnly swear that I will perform the duties of mayor (or council member, as the case may be) of the City of West Point, to the best of my skill and ability, and as to me shall deem to the best interest and welfare of said city without fear, favor or affection. So help me God."
And shall forthwith enter upon the discharge of the duties of his or her office.
(Ga. Laws 1987, p. 3784)
Sec. 10. - Mayor; general powers and duties.
The mayor of said city shall be the chief executive officer of the City of West Point. He or she shall see that all laws, ordinances, resolutions and rules of said city are faithfully and fully executed and enforced and that all the officers of said city faithfully discharge the duties required of them. He or she shall have general supervision and jurisdiction of the affairs of said city. He or she shall preside at all meetings of the mayor and council of said city, and shall have the right to vote in all elections and upon all questions which may come before said body, except upon questions where he or she is disqualified by reason of interest or otherwise.
(Ga. Laws 1987, p. 3784)
ARTICLE III. - OFFICERS AND EMPLOYEES

Sec. 11. - Filling vacancies.
The mayor and city council shall have full power and authority to fill any vacancy that may occur in any office, held under election or appointment by the said mayor and council, for the unexpired term of such office.
(Ga. Laws 1987, p. 3784)
Sec. 12. - Performance bonds; payment into treasury.
The mayor and city council shall have full power and authority to establish a bond to insure the faithful performance of the duties of the officers of said city, such bond fees when collected to be paid into the city treasury.
(Ga. Laws 1987, p. 3784)
Sec. 13. - Mayor pro tempore; election; term of office.
At the first regular meeting of the mayor and city council in January of each year, they shall elect one of their number Mayor pro tem, whose term of office shall be for one year and until his successor is elected and qualified.
(Ga. Laws 1987, p. 3784)
Sec. 14. - Election of city officers.
At the first regular meeting of the mayor and council of said city in January of each year, they shall elect a municipal court judge, a recorder pro tempore, and a city attorney. Each of said officers shall take such oath, give such bond, receive such salary and perform such duties as the mayor and city council may prescribe.
(Ga. Laws 1987, p. 3784; Ord. No. 13-1, § 1, 3-11-13)
Sec. 15. - Duties of chief of police.
It shall be the duty of the Chief of Police of said city to levy all executions in favor of said city for taxes and fines, and advertise and sell the property levied on, in accordance with the laws governing sheriff's sales of this state.
(Ga. Laws 1987, p. 3784)
Sec. 16. - City manager; duties.
The mayor and city council shall appoint for an indefinite term an officer whose title shall be city manager and who shall be the head of the administrative branch of the city government. The city manager shall serve at the pleasure of the mayor and city council and shall receive such salary as the city council shall fix. The city manager shall be responsible to the mayor and city council for the proper administration of the affairs of the city. As the chief administrator, the city manager shall have the power to appoint and remove all employees in the administrative service of the city, except the city clerk, city attorney, city physician, utilities superintendent, chief of police, chief of fire department, city engineer, and city sexton, municipal court judge, who shall be appointed as provided in this charter; and provided that the city manager may only recommend the employment of department heads, as defined by ordinance, who shall be hired and fired only with the approval of the mayor and city council. It shall be the duty of the city manager to supervise the administration of the affairs of the city; to see that the ordinances, regulations and resolutions of the mayor and city council and the laws of the state of Georgia are faithfully executed and enforced; to make such recommendations to the mayor and city council concerning the affairs of the city as he or she shall deem expedient; to keep the mayor and city council advised of the financial condition of the city and of future financial needs of the city; to attend all meetings of the mayor and city council as directed by the mayor and city council, and to prepare and submit to the mayor and city council such reports as he or she may deem expedient or as may be required of him or her by the mayor and council; and to perform all other duties as may be required of him or her by the mayor and council. The city manager shall be the purchasing agent for the city of all supplies, materials, equipment, and all other articles and wares of every kind and description used by the city.
(Ga. Laws 1987, p. 3784)
Sec. 17. - City clerk-treasurer; duties.
The city clerk and city treasurer, shall be one office. It shall be the duty of the clerk and treasurer to receive the tax returns, collect the taxes, licenses and special business taxes, and all other taxes, fines and assessments made by the mayor and council, keep the different fund separate, make monthly reports of the state of the different funds on hand and the condition of the treasury, attend the meetings of the mayor and council, keep minutes of such meetings and record the same in a book to be kept for that purpose, and to perform such other duties as the mayor and council may require of him or her.
(Ga. Laws 1987, p. 3784)
Sec. 18. - Publication of financial statement.
The clerk and treasurer of the City of West Point shall annually publish in a newspaper in said city a tabulated statement showing the receipts and disbursements of the city's money up to the thirty-first of December of the year for which the report is made.
(Ga. Laws 1987, p. 3784)
Sec. 19. - Investigation of city officials; subpoena power.
The mayor and city council shall be empowered and authorized through a committee or by themselves, in the discretion of said mayor and city council, whenever necessary to examine into the working of, and business of any office or conduct of any officer, and said committee, or the mayor and council conducting such examination swear witnesses and compel the attendance of persons and production of books and papers and all disclosures pertinent to such investigation as may be provided by state law.
(Ga. Laws 1987, p. 3784)
ARTICLE IV. - COURTS

Sec. 20. - Municipal court; office of municipal judge; penalties
Pursuant to the provisions of O.C.G.A. § 36-32-1, there is hereby established the municipal court for the City of West Point, Georgia which shall have jurisdiction over the violation of municipal ordinances and over such matters as are by general law made subject to the jurisdiction of municipal courts.
Pursuant to the provisions of O.C.G.A. § 36-32-2, there is hereby established the office of municipal court judge. The municipal court judge shall be appointed by the city council at its first regular meeting in January of each year and shall serve at the pleasure of the city council. The municipal court judge shall possess such qualifications and shall receive such compensation as shall be fixed by the city council. At its first regular meeting in January of each year the city council shall also appoint a recorder pro tempore who shall preside over the municipal court in the absence or disqualification of the municipal judge. The municipal court of the city, unless otherwise provided in a local law relating to the municipal court of the city, shall be authorized to impose any punishment up to the maximums specified by the general laws of the State of Georgia, including the maximums specified in subparagraphs (a)(2)(B) and (a)(2)(C) of O.C.G.A. § 36-35-6.
(Ga. Laws 1987, p. 3784)
Sec. 21. - Incorporation of state law.
The provisions of O.C.G.A. § 36-32-1, et seq. pertaining to the establishment, powers, authority, and jurisdiction of municipal courts are hereby adopted by the city and incorporated by reference into this charter.
(Ga. Laws 1987, p. 3784)
ARTICLE V. - ELECTIONS

Sec. 22. - Manner of holding elections; candidate and voter qualification.
The manner of holding elections and the qualifications for candidacy for municipal office and eligibility to vote in municipal elections shall be as set forth in Article II of the Constitution of the State of Georgia and in O.C.G.A. § 21-2-1, et seq. and the provisions of such article of the state constitution and sections of the state code are hereby adopted by the city and incorporated by reference into this charter.
(Ga. Laws 1987, p. 3784)
Sec. 23. - Procedures to be followed in conducting elections.
The procedures to be followed in conducting municipal elections shall be as set forth in O.C.G.A. § 21-2-400, et seq. and the provisions of such sections of the state code are hereby adopted by the city and incorporated by reference into this charter.
(Ga. Laws 1987, p. 3784)
ARTICLE VI. - GENERAL POWERS AND AUTHORITY

Sec. 24. - Powers and construction.
(a)
This city shall have all powers possible for a city to have under the present or future Constitution and laws of this state as fully and completely as though they were specifically enumerated in this charter. This city shall have all the powers of self-government not otherwise prohibited by this charter or by general law.
(b)
The powers of this city shall be construed liberally in favor of the city. The specific mention or failure to mention particular powers shall not be construed as limiting in any way the powers of this city. These powers shall include, but not be limited to, the following:
(1)
Air and water pollution. To regulate the emission of smoke or other exhaust which pollutes the air and to prevent the pollution of natural streams or bodies of water within the corporate limits of the city;
(2)
Animal regulations. To regulate and license or to prohibit the keeping or running at large of animals and fowl and to provide for the impoundment of same if in violation of any ordinance or lawful order; to provide for the disposition by sale, gift, or humane destruction of animals and fowl when not redeemed as provided by ordinance; and to provide punishment for violation of ordinances enacted under this charter;
(3)
Appropriations and expenditures. To make appropriations for the support of the government of the city; to authorize the expenditure of money for any purposes authorized by this charter and for any purpose for which a municipality is authorized by the laws of the State of Georgia; and to provide for the payment of expenses of the city;
(4)
Building regulation. To regulate and to license the erection and construction of buildings and all other structures; to adopt building, housing, plumbing, electrical, gas, and heating and air conditioning codes; and to regulate all housing and building trades;
(5)
Business regulation and taxation. To levy and to provide for collection of license fees and taxes on privileges, occupations, trades, and professions; to license and regulate the same; to provide for the manner and method of payment of such licenses and taxes; and to revoke such licenses after due process for failure to pay any city taxes or fees;
(6)
Condemnation. To condemn property, inside or outside the corporate limits of the city, for present or future use and for any corporate purpose deemed necessary by the governing authority, utilizing procedures enumerated in Title 22 of the O.C.G.A. or such other applicable laws as are now or may hereafter be enacted;
(7)
Contracts. To enter into contracts and agreements with other governmental entities and with private persons, firms, and corporations;
(8)
Emergencies. To establish procedures for determining and proclaiming that an emergency situation exists within or outside the city and to make and carry out all reasonable provisions deemed necessary to deal with or meet such an emergency for the protection, safety, health, or well-being of the citizens of the city;
(9)
Eminent domain. To acquire, construct, operate, and maintain public ways, parks, public grounds, cemeteries, markets, houses, public buildings, libraries, sewers, drains, sewage treatment, waterworks, electrical systems, gas systems, airports, hospitals, and charitable, educational, recreational, sport, curative, corrective, detentional, penal, and medical institutions, agencies, and facilities, and any other public improvements inside or outside the city and to regulate the use thereof and, for such purposes, property may be condemned under procedures established under general law applicable now or as provided in the future;
(10)
Fire regulations. To fix and establish fire districts and from time to time to extend, enlarge, or restrict the same; to prescribe fire safety regulations not inconsistent with general law, relating to both fire prevention and detention and to fire fighting; and to prescribe penalties and punishment for violations thereof;
(11)
Flood regulations. The City of West Point, [be and it] is hereby authorized to acquire by condemnation, eminent domain or other proceedings, any real property in the City of West Point, counties of Troup or Harris, which may be necessary for the protection of said city or counties from damage by floods or freshets.
State Law reference— (Ga. Laws 1920, p. 1759, § 1)
(12)
Garbage fees. To levy, fix, assess, and collect a garbage, refuse, and trash collection and disposal and other sanitary service charge, tax, or fee for such services as may be necessary in the operation of the city from all individuals, firms, and corporations residing in or doing business in the city benefiting from such services; to enforce the payment of such charges, taxes, or fees; and to provide for the manner and method of collecting such service charges;
(13)
General health, safety, and welfare. To define, regulate, and prohibit any act, practice, conduct, or use of property which is detrimental to health, sanitation, cleanliness, welfare, and safety of the inhabitants of the city and to provide for the enforcement of such standards;
(14)
Gifts. To accept or refuse gifts, donations, bequests, or grants from any source for any purpose related to powers and duties of the city and the general welfare of its citizens, on such terms and conditions as the donor or grantor may impose;
(15)
Health and sanitation. To prescribe standards of health and sanitation and to provide for the enforcement of such standards;
(16)
Jail sentences. To provide that persons given jail sentences in the municipal court may work out such sentence in any public works or on the streets, roads, drains, and squares or other public property in the city; to provide for commitment of such persons to any jail; or to provide for commitment of such persons to any county work camp or county jail by agreement with the appropriate county officials;
(17)
Motor vehicles. To regulate the operation of motor vehicles and exercise control over all traffic, including parking upon or across the streets, roads, alleys, and walkways of the city;
(18)
Municipal agencies and delegation of power. To create, alter, or abolish departments, boards, offices, commissions, and agencies of the city and to confer upon such agencies the necessary and appropriate authority for carrying out all the powers conferred upon or delegated to the same;
(19)
Municipal debts. To appropriate and borrow money for the payment of debts of the city and to issue bonds for the purpose of raising revenue to carry out any project, program, or venture authorized by this charter or the laws of the State of Georgia;
(20)
Municipal property ownership. To acquire, dispose of, and hold in trust or otherwise any real, personal, or mixed property, in fee simple or lessor interest, inside or outside the corporate limits of the city. The mayor and council are further hereby authorized to rent or lease real or personal property owned or held by the city, either in its proprietary or governmental capacity, for adequate consideration and upon such terms and conditions as are deemed by the governing authority to be in the best interests of the city;
(21)
Municipal property protection. To provide for the preservation and protection of property and equipment of the city and the administration and use of same by the public; and to prescribe penalties and punishment for violations thereof;
(22)
Municipal utilities. To acquire, lease, construct, operate, maintain, sell, and dispose of public utilities, including, but not limited to, a system of waterworks, sewers and drains, sewage disposal, gas works, electric light plants, transportation facilities, public airports, and any other public utility; and to fix the taxes, charges, rates, fares, fees, assessments, regulations, and penalties and to provide for the withdrawal of service for refusal or failure to pay the same; and to authorize the extension of water, sewerage, and electrical distribution systems, and all necessary appurtenances by which such utilities are distributed, inside and outside the corporate limits of the city and to provide utility services to persons, firms, and corporations inside the corporate limits of the city as provided by ordinance;
(23)
Nuisance. To define a nuisance and provide for its abatement whether on public or private property;
(24)
Penalties. To provide penalties for violation of any ordinances adopted pursuant to the authority of this charter and the laws of the State of Georgia;
(25)
Planning and zoning. To provide comprehensive city planning for development by zoning; and to provide subdivision regulation and the like as the city council deems necessary and reasonable to ensure a safe, healthy, and aesthetically pleasing community;
(26)
Police and fire protection. To exercise the power of arrest through duly appointed police officers and to establish, operate, or contract for a police and a firefighting agency;
(27)
Public hazards; removal. To provide for the destruction and removal of any building or other structure which is or may become dangerous or detrimental to the public;
(28)
Public improvements. To provide for the acquisition, construction, building, operation, and maintenance of public ways, parks and playgrounds, recreational facilities, cemeteries, markets and market houses, public buildings, libraries, public housing, airports, hospitals, terminals, docks, parking facilities, or charitable, cultural, educational, recreational, conservation, sport, curative, corrective, detentional, penal, and medical institutions, agencies, and facilities; and to provide any other public improvements, inside or outside the corporate limits of the city; to regulate the use of public improvements; and, for such purposes, property may be acquired by condemnation under Title 22 of the O.C.G.A or such other applicable laws as are now or may hereafter be enacted;
(29)
Public peace. To provide for the prevention and punishment of drunkenness, riots, and public disturbances;
(30)
Public transportation. To organize and operate or contract for such public transportation systems as are deemed beneficial;
(31)
Public utilities and services. To grant franchises or make contracts for public utilities and public services and to prescribe the rates, fares, regulations, and standards and conditions of service applicable to the service to be provided by the franchise grantee or contractor, insofar as not in conflict with valid regulations of the Georgia Public Service Commission;
(32)
Regulation of roadside areas. To prohibit or regulate and control the erection, removal, and maintenance of signs, billboards, trees, shrubs, fences, buildings, and any and all other structures or obstructions upon or adjacent to the rights-of-way of streets and roads or within view thereof, within or abutting the corporate limits of the city; and to prescribe penalties and punishment for violation of such ordinances;
(33)
Retirement. To provide and maintain a retirement plan for officers and employees of the city;
(34)
Roadways. To lay out, open, extend, widen, narrow, establish or change the grade of, abandon or close, construct, pave, curb, gutter, adorn with shade trees, or otherwise improve, maintain, repair, clean, prevent erosion of, and light the roads, alleys, and walkways within the corporate limits of the city; and to negotiate and execute leases over, through, under, or across any city property or the right-of-way of any street, road, alley, and walkway or portion thereof within the corporate limits of the city for bridges, passageways, or any other purpose or use between buildings on opposite sides of the street and for other bridges, overpasses, and underpasses for private use at such location and to charge a rental therefor in such manner as may be provided by ordinance; and to authorize and control the construction of bridges, overpasses, and underpasses within the corporate limits of the city; and to grant franchises and rights-of-way throughout the streets and roads and over the bridges and viaducts for the use of public utilities and for private use; and to require real estate owners to repair and maintain in a safe condition the sidewalks adjoining their lots or lands arid to impose penalties for failure to do so;
(35)
Sewer fees. To levy a fee, charge, or sewer tax as necessary to assure the acquiring, constructing, equipment, operating, maintaining, and extending of a sewage disposal plant and sewerage system and to levy on those to whom sewers and sewerage systems are made available a sewer service fee, charge, or sewer tax for the availability or use of the sewers; to provide for manner and method of collecting such service charges and for enforcing payment of the same; and to charge, impose, and collect a sewer connection fee or fees to those connected with the system;
(36)
Solid waste disposal. To provide for the collection and disposal of garbage, rubbish, and refuse and to regulate the collection and disposal of garbage, rubbish, and refuse by others; and to provide for the separate collection of glass, tin, aluminum, cardboard, paper, and other recyclable materials and to provide for the sale of such items;
(37)
Special areas of public regulation. To regulate or prohibit junk dealers, pawn shops, the manufacture, sale, or transportation of any intoxicating liquors or alcoholic beverages, and the use and sale of firearms; to regulate the transportation, storage, and use of combustible, explosive, and inflammable materials, the use of lighting and heating equipment, and any other business or situation which may be dangerous to persons or property; to regulate and control the conduct of peddlers and itinerant traders, theatrical performances, exhibitions, and shows of any kind, by taxation or otherwise; and to license, tax, regulate, or prohibit professional fortunetelling, palmistry, adult bookstores, and massage parlors;
(38)
Special assessments. To levy and provide for the collection of special assessments to cover the costs for any public improvements;
(39)
Taxes: ad valorem. To levy and provide for assessment, valuation, revaluation, and collection of taxes on all property subject to taxation;
(40)
Taxes: extra-ordinary. The mayor and city council may in any case of emergency, to be judged of them, levy an extraordinary tax not to exceed one-fourth of one percent of the property of said city, the said extraordinary tax to be added to the ordinary tax and collected at the same time and to be used for the same purposes.
State Law reference— (Ga. Laws 1900, p. 474, § 46)
(41)
Taxes: other. To levy and collect such other taxes as may be allowed now or in the future by law;
(42)
Taxicabs. To regulate and license vehicles operated for hire in the city; to limit the number of such vehicles; to require the operators thereof to be licensed; to require public liability insurance on such vehicles in the amounts to be prescribed by ordinance; and to regulate the parking of such vehicles;
(43)
Urban redevelopment. To organize and operate an urban redevelopment program; and
(44)
Other powers. To exercise and enjoy all other powers, functions, rights, privileges, and immunities necessary or desirable to promote or protect the safety, health, peace, security, good order, comfort, convenience, or general welfare of the city and its inhabitants; and to exercise all implied powers necessary to execute all powers granted in this charter as fully and completely as if such powers were fully stated in this charter; and to exercise all powers now or in the future authorized to be exercised by other municipal governments under other laws of the State of Georgia; and no listing of particular powers in this charter shall be held to be exclusive of others, nor restrictive of general words and phrases granting powers, but shall be held to be in addition to such powers unless expressly prohibited to municipalities under the Constitution or applicable laws of the State of Georgia.
(Ga. Laws 1987, p. 3784; Ord. No. 14-12, § 1, 11-10-14)
Editor's note— Ord. No. 14-12, § 1, adopted Nov. 10, 2014, amended § 24(b)(20) so as to authorize the city to rent or lease real or personal property under certain conditions.
Sec. 25. - Exercise of powers.
All powers, functions, rights, privileges, and immunities of the city, its officers, agencies, or employees shall be carried into execution as provided by this charter. If this charter makes no provision, such shall be carried into execution as provided by ordinance or as provided by pertinent laws of the State of Georgia.
(Ga. Laws 1987, p. 3784)
ARTICLE VII. - REMOVAL OF OFFICIALS

Sec. 26. - Removal of elected official from office.
(a)
The mayor and any council member shall be removed from office for any one or more of the causes provided in Title 45 of the Official Code of Georgia Annotated, or such other applicable laws as are or may be hereinafter enacted.
(b)
Removal of an official pursuant to subsection (a) of this section shall be accomplished by one of the following methods:
(1)
Following a hearing at which an impartial panel shall render a decision. In the event an elected official is sought to be removed by the action of the mayor and/or city council, such official shall be entitled to a written notice specifying the ground or grounds for removal and to a public hearing which shall be held not less than ten (10) days after the service of such written notice. The city council shall provide by ordinance for the manner in which such hearings shall be held. Any elected official sought to be removed from such office as herein provided shall have the right of appeal from the decision of the city council to the Superior Court of Troup or Harris County, Georgia. Such appeal shall be governed by the same rules as govern appeals to the Superior Court from the Probate Court.
(2)
By an order of the Superior Court of Troup or Harris County, Georgia, following a hearing on a complaint seeking such removal brought by any resident of the City of West Point, Georgia.
(Ga. Laws 1987, p. 3784)
CHARTER COMPARATIVE TABLE
This table shows the location of the sections of the basic Charter and any amendments thereto.
EXPAND
Ga. Laws Page Section  Section
this Charter
1874 223 31
1900 25 13 25
474 1—58 1—58
1 1
2 4
3 2
4 9
15
5, 6 35, 36
7 8
8 29
9 10
10, 11 16, 17
12 11
12.1, 12.2 12.1, 12.2
13 25
14 37
15, 16 40, 41
17, 18 44
19—21 45—47
22 43
23 55
24 50
25 56
26 48
27 52
28 51
29 53
30 12
31 54
32 49
33, 34 38, 39
35 13
36 18
37 27
38 20
39 14
40 28
41 7
42, 43 5, 6
44 26
45 42
46 34
47 19
48 3
1912 1541 1 9
15
1544 1 25
1546 1 56
1549 1 7
1920 1759 1, 2 57, 58
1935 1229 1 25
1937 761—774 Char., app. I
1939 1382 1 38
1956 2140 1 40
45, 46
2276 1 2
1962 2406 1 21—24
1963 2402 1—4 30—33
1964 801 1 Char., app. I
1970 1335 1 2
1971 279 1 12.1
280 1 25
2 6
1972 1217 1 12.2
1987 3784 1       Rpld 1—58
2       Added 1—26
  EXPAND
Ordinance
Number Adoption
Date Section  Section
this Charter
13-1  3-11-13 1 14
14-12 11-10-14 1 24(b)(20)
