Chapter 10 - BUDGET[1]
Footnotes:
--- (1) ---
State Law reference— Local government budgets and audits, O.C.G.A. § 36-81-1 et seq.; adoption of budget ordinance or budget resolution, O.C.G.A. § 36-81-6.

ARTICLE I. - IN GENERAL

Sec. 10-1. - Fiscal year.
The city shall operate on a fiscal year which shall begin on January 1 and end on December 31.
(Code 1992, § 4-201)
State Law reference— Establishment of fiscal year required, O.C.G.A. § 36-81-3.
Sec. 10-2. - Procedures for adoption of budget.
The municipal budget shall be introduced, approved, amended, and adopted by ordinance passed by not less than a majority of the full membership of the city council. The procedure shall be as follows:
(1)
Introduction and approval. The municipal budget shall be introduced in writing by the city clerk and initially approved no later than November 30 of the fiscal year. Upon initial approval by the city council, the city council shall fix the time and place for the holding of a public hearing.
(2)
Public hearing advertisement. The municipal budget shall be advertised on the day that the proposed budget is submitted to the city council for consideration. The advertisement shall contain a copy of the budget and shall set forth the date, the time, and the place of the hearing. It shall be published at least ten days prior to the date fixed therefor in one or more newspapers of general circulation in the municipality. The statement shall be a prominently displayed advertisement or news article and shall not be placed in that section of the newspaper where legal notices appear. A copy of the budget shall also be made available, upon request, to the news media.
(3)
Public hearing.
a.
The municipal budget shall not be adopted until a public hearing has been held thereon and taxpayers and all persons having an interest therein shall have been given an opportunity to present objections. Such hearing shall be held not less than 21 days after the initial approval of the budget at the time and place specified in the advertisement thereof, and may be adjourned from time to time until the hearing is closed.
b.
The budget, as advertised, shall be read at the public hearing in full, or it may be read only by its title if at least one week prior to the date of the hearing a complete copy of the budget shall have been posted in the city hall and shall have been made available to each person requesting the same during the previous week and during the public hearing.
(4)
Amendments.
a.
The city council may amend the budget during or after the public hearing, except that no proposed amendment shall be effective without such a hearing if it shall:
1.
Add a new item of appropriation in an amount in excess of one percent of the total amount of appropriations as stated in the initially approved budget;
2.
Increase or decrease any item of appropriation by more than ten percent; or
3.
Increase the amount needed to be raised by taxes by more than five percent.
b.
Notice of a hearing on any amendment shall be advertised at least three days before the date set therefor. Any such amendment must be published in full in the same manner as an original publication and must be read in full at the hearing and before adoption.
(5)
Adoption. The municipal budget shall be adopted not later than January 30 of the fiscal year. Upon adoption, the budget shall constitute an appropriation for the purposes stated therein and an authorization of the amount to be raised by taxation for the purposes of the municipality.
(Code 1992, § 4-202)
State Law reference— Budget preparation and hearings, O.C.G.A. § 36-81-5.
Sec. 10-3. - Budget message.
When introduced to the city council for approval, the municipal budget shall be accompanied by a budget message which shall explain the budget both in fiscal terms and in terms of the work programs. The budget message shall outline the proposed financial policies of the city for the ensuing fiscal year; describe the important features of the budget; indicate any major changes from the current year in financial policies, expenditures, and revenues, together with the reasons for such change; summarize the city's debt position; and include such other material as will provide a complete synopsis of the financial condition of the city.
(Code 1992, § 4-203)
Sec. 10-4. - Form and content of budget.
The municipal budget shall be prefaced by a clear general summary of its contents and shall show in detail all estimated income, indicating the proposed property tax levy, and all proposed expenditures for the ensuing fiscal year. It shall be so arranged as to show comparative figures for actual and estimated income expenditures of the preceding fiscal year. Separate items shall be included for at least the following:
(1)
Administration, operation, and maintenance expenses of each city department or office, including a breakdown for salaries and wages for each such unit;
(2)
Interest and debt redemption charges;
(3)
Proposed capital expenditures, detailed by departments and offices when practicable;
(4)
Cash deficits of the preceding year;
(5)
Contingent expenses in an amount not more than three percent of the total amount of administration, operation, and maintenance expenses; and
(6)
Such reserves as may be deemed advisable by the city council. The total of proposed expenditures shall not exceed the total of anticipated revenue.
(Code 1992, § 4-204)
Sec. 10-5. - Publication of financial statement.
Within six months after the close of the fiscal year, a statement of revenues and expenditures, which fairly represents the financial condition of the city and that shows all municipal accounts as of the close of such preceding fiscal year, shall be published in a newspaper of general circulation in the municipality.
(Code 1992, § 4-209)
Secs. 10-6—10-28. - Reserved.
ARTICLE II. - CAPITAL PROGRAM

Sec. 10-29. - Submission; components.
A five-year capital program may be submitted to the city council at the time that the budget and budget message are introduced for approval. Such capital program shall include:
(1)
A clear general summary of its contents;
(2)
A list of all capital improvements which are proposed to be undertaken for the five fiscal years next ensuing, with appropriate supporting information as to the necessity for such improvements;
(3)
Cost estimates, method of financing, and recommended time schedules for each such improvement; and
(4)
The estimated annual cost of operation and maintaining the facilities to be constructed or acquired. The above information may be revised and extended each year with regard to capital improvements still pending or in the process of construction or acquisition.
(Code 1992, § 4-205)
Secs. 10-30—10-46. - Reserved.
ARTICLE III. - APPROPRIATIONS

Sec. 10-47. - Transfer.
The mayor may, at any time during the fiscal year, transfer part or all of any unencumbered appropriation balance among programs within a department or office, and the city council may, by ordinance, transfer part or all of any unencumbered appropriation balance from one department or office to another, except that no appropriation for debt service or capital improvements may be reduced or transferred during any fiscal year, and under no circumstances may the expenditures exceed the total of the budget.
(Code 1992, § 4-206)
Sec. 10-48. - Emergency.
Notwithstanding any other provision of this chapter, the city council may make emergency appropriations after the adoption of a budget for a purpose which was not foreseen at the time of the adoption thereof, or for which adequate provision was not made therein. Such an appropriation shall be made only to meet a public emergency affecting life, health, safety, property, or the public peace, and shall be made only out of actual unappropriated revenues or surplus. If there is no surplus, then temporary borrowing in notes may be made, provided that any such borrowed amounts are included as an appropriation in the next succeeding year's budget.
(Code 1992, § 4-207)
Sec. 10-49. - Lapse.
Every appropriation, except an appropriation for a capital expenditure, shall lapse at the close of the next succeeding year to the extent that it has not been expended or encumbered. An appropriation for a capital expenditure shall continue in force until the purpose for which it was made has been accomplished or abandoned; the purpose of any such appropriation shall be deemed abandoned if three years pass without any disbursement from or encumbrance of the appropriation.
(Code 1992, § 4-208)
