Chapter 1 - GENERAL PROVISIONS[1]

Footnotes:
--- (1) ---
State Law reference— Authority of municipality to adopt ordinances, resolutions, or regulations, O.C.G.A. § 36-35-3; incorporation of municipal corporations generally, O.C.G.A. § 36-31-1 et seq.

Sec. 1-1. - Designation and citation of Code.
The general ordinances embraced in the following chapters and sections shall constitute and be designated "The Code of Ordinances, City of Arcade, Georgia, and may be so cited. This Code may also be cited as the "Arcade City Code."
(Code 1992, § 1-101)
State Law reference— Codification requirements, O.C.G.A. § 36-80-19.
Sec. 1-2. - Rules of construction.
The following rules of construction shall apply to all ordinances and resolutions of the city council unless the context requires otherwise:
(1)
General rule. All words and phrases shall be constructed and understood according to the common and approved usage of the language; but technical words and phrases and such others as may have acquired a peculiar and appropriate meaning in the law shall be construed and understood according to such peculiar and appropriate meaning.
(2)
Gender. The masculine gender includes the feminine and the neuter.
(3)
Tense. The use of any verb in the past or present tense shall include the future as well as the past and present when applicable.
(4)
Joint authority. A joint authority given to any number of persons or officers may be executed by a majority of them, unless it is otherwise declared.
(5)
Delegation of authority. Whenever a provision requires the head of a department or other officer of the city to do some act or perform some duty, it shall be construed to authorize subordinates to do the required act or perform the required duty unless the terms of the provision designate otherwise.
(6)
Computation of time. The time within which an act is to be done as provided in any Code provision or ordinance or in any order issued pursuant to any ordinance, when expressed in days, shall be computed by excluding the first day and including the last, except that if the last day is a Sunday or a holiday it shall be excluded; and when any such time is expressed in hours, the whole of Sunday, from 12:00 midnight to 12:00 midnight, shall be excluded.
(7)
Number. The singular or plural number each includes each other, unless the other is expressly excluded.
(8)
Overlapping provisions. Where any provision of this Code imposes greater restrictions upon the subject matter than any general provisions imposed by this Code, the provision imposing the greater restriction or regulation shall be applicable.
(Code 1992, § 1-102)
State Law reference— Similar provisions, O.C.G.A. § 1-3-1.
Sec. 1-3. - Definitions.
The following definitions shall apply to all ordinances and resolutions of the city council unless the context requires otherwise:
Advice and consent. Whenever the term "advise and consent" of the city council is used in this Code it shall be construed to mean an affirmative vote of the majority of the entire city council.
City. The term "the city" or "this city" means the City of Arcade, Georgia.
City council, council. The term "city council" or "the council" includes the mayor and all councilmembers who are currently serving the City of Arcade, Georgia.
City limits or corporate limits. The term "city limits" or "corporate limits" means the corporate limits (legal boundaries) of the city.
Code. The term "Code" means The Code of Ordinances of the City of Arcade, Georgia, as designated in section 1-1.
Councilmember and member of the city council. The terms "councilmember" and "member of the city council" mean a member of the governing body of the City of Arcade.
County. The term "the county" or "this county" means the County of Jackson, Georgia.
Court. The term "court" means the municipal court of Arcade, Georgia.
Governing authority, governing body. The term "governing authority" or "governing body" means the city council of the City of Arcade, Georgia.
Judge or recorder. The term "judge" or "recorder" means the judge of the municipal court.
Mayor. The term "mayor" means the mayor of the City of Arcade, Georgia.
Misdemeanor. The term "misdemeanor" means a violation of the state criminal law punishable by a fine not in excess of $1,000.00 or confinement in a county or other jail for a term not exceeding 12 months, or by both such fine and imprisonment.
Municipality. The term "municipality" shall be construed as synonymous with the term "city" or "municipal corporation."
Oath. The term "oath" means an affirmation in all cases in which, by law, an affirmation may be substituted for an oath, and in such cases the terms "affirm" and "affirmed" shall be equivalent to the terms "swear" or "sworn."
O.C.G.A. The abbreviation "O.C.G.A." means the latest edition of the Official Code of Georgia Annotated, as amended.
Ordinance. The term "ordinance" means a legislative act of the city council of a general and permanent nature.
Owner. The term "owner," when applied to a building or to land, means any part owner, joint owner, tenant in common, joint tenant, or tenant by the entirety, of the whole or a part of such building or land.
Person. The term "person" means a corporation, firm, partnership, association, organization, cooperative, nonprofit membership cooperation, agency, syndicate, estate, trust, business trust, receiver, fiduciary, or any other group acting as a unit, as well as an individual.
Personal property. The term "personal property" means every specie of property except real property, as hereinafter defined.
Preceding, following. The terms "preceding" and "following" mean next before and next after, respectively.
Property. The term "property" means real property, personal property, and mixed estates and interests.
Real property. The term "real property" means lands, tenements, and hereditaments.
Reasonable time or notice. The term "reasonable time or notice" means only such time as may be necessary for the prompt performance of the act required.
Resolution. The term "resolution" means a legislative act of the city council of a special or temporary character.
Sidewalk. The term "sidewalk" means any portion of the street between the curbline and the adjacent property line, intended for the use of pedestrians, but shall not include any unimproved areas between the curbline and improved walkways.
Signature, subscription. The term "signature" or "subscription" includes a mark intended as such when a person cannot write.
State. The term "state" or "this state" means the State of Georgia.
Statute reference. Whenever reference is made to, for example, O.C.G.A. § 1-1-1, it shall be construed to refer to the Official Code of Georgia Annotated, § 1-1-1, as amended, or to whatever section is cited.
Street. The term "street" means and includes any public way, road, highway, street, avenue, boulevard, parkway, alley, viaduct or bridge, and the approaches thereto, within the city.
Tenant or occupant. The term "tenant" or "occupant," when applied to a building or to land, means any person holding a written or oral lease of, or who occupies the whole or a part of such building or land, either alone or with others.
Week. The term "week" means seven calendar days.
Writing or written. The term "writing" or "written" means printing and any other mode of representing words and letters.
Year. The term "year" means a calendar year.
(Code 1992, § 1-103)
State Law reference— Construction of definitions, O.C.G.A. § 1-3-2; meaning of certain words, O.C.G.A. § 1-3-3.
Sec. 1-4. - Section headings; editor's notes and references.
(a)
The headings of the several sections and subsections of this Code are intended as mere captions to indicate the contents of the section or subsection and shall not be deemed or taken to be titles of such sections, nor any part of the section or subsection, nor, unless expressly so provided, shall they be so deemed when any of such sections or subsections, including the headings, is amended or re-enacted.
(b)
The history notes appearing in parentheses after each section and the references and editor's notes scattered throughout the Code are for the benefit of the user of the Code and shall have no legal effect.
(Code 1992, § 1-104)
Sec. 1-5. - Amending Code.
modified
(a)
All ordinances passed subsequent to the adoption of this Code of Ordinances which amend, repeal or in any way affect this Code of Ordinances shall be numbered in accordance with the numbering system of this Code and printed for inclusion therein. In the case of repealed chapters, sections, and subsections or any part thereof, by subsequent ordinances, such repealed portions may be excluded from the Code by omission from reprinted pages affected thereby. The subsequent ordinances as numbered and printed, or omitted in the case of repeal, shall be prima facie evidence of such subsequent ordinances until such time as the Code and subsequent ordinances omitted are readopted as a new Code by the city council.
(b)
Amendments to any of the provisions of this Code should be made by amending such provisions by specific reference to the section of this Code in substantially the following language: "That section _____ of the Code of Ordinances of the City of Arcade, Georgia, is hereby amended to read as follows…." The new provision may then be set out in full as desired.
(c)
In the event a new section not heretofore existing in the Code is to be added, the following language may be used: "The Code of Ordinances of the City of Arcade, Georgia, is hereby amended by adding a section (or subsection or chapter) to be numbered _____, which reads as follows…." The new provision shall then be set out in full as desired.
(d)
All sections, chapters, or provisions sought to be repealed must be specifically repealed by section, chapter, or provision number, as the case may be.
(Code 1992, § 1-105)
Sec. 1-6. - Altering Code.
It shall be unlawful for any person to change or amend by additions or deletions any part or portion of this Code, or to insert or delete pages or portions thereof, or to alter or tamper with such Code in any manner whatsoever, except by ordinance or resolution or other official act of the city council.
(Code 1992, § 1-106)
Sec. 1-7. - Effect of repeal or expiration of Code section.
(a)
The repeal of a Code section or ordinance, or its expiration by virtue of any provision contained therein, shall not affect any right accrued or any offense committed, any penalty or punishment incurred, or any proceeding commenced before the repeal took effect or the ordinance expired.
(b)
When any ordinance repealing a former Code section, ordinance, clause, or provision, shall be itself repealed, such repeal shall not be construed to revive such former Code section, ordinance, clause, or provision, unless it shall be expressly so provided.
(c)
An ordinance which is in conflict in its entirety with a subsequent ordinance shall be deemed to be repealed in its entirety, even if no specific repealer is stated. If an ordinance is only partially in conflict with a subsequent ordinance, only the portion of the previous ordinance in conflict with the subsequent ordinance shall be deemed to have been repealed, even if a specific repealer is not stated.
(Code 1992, § 1-107)
Sec. 1-8. - Severability of parts of Code.
It is hereby declared to be the intention of the city council that the sections, subsections, paragraphs, sentences, clauses, and phrases of this Code are severable and if any phrase, clause, sentence, paragraph, subsection, or section of this Code shall be declared unconstitutional by the valid judgment or decree of a court of competent jurisdiction, such unconstitutionality shall not affect any of the remaining phrases, clauses, sentences, paragraphs, subsections, and sections of this Code.
(Code 1992, § 1-108)
State Law reference— Severability, O.C.G.A. § 1-1-3.
Sec. 1-9. - Penalty where no penalty provided.
(a)
In this section, the term "violation of this Code" means:
(1)
Doing an act that is prohibited or made or declared unlawful, an offense or a misdemeanor by ordinance or by rule or regulation authorized by ordinance;
(2)
Failure to perform an act that is required to be performed by ordinance or by rule or regulation authorized by ordinance; or
(3)
Failure to perform an act if the failure is declared a misdemeanor or an offense or unlawful by ordinance or by rule or regulation authorized by ordinance.
(b)
In this section, the term "violation of this Code" does not include the failure of a city officer or city employee to perform an official duty, unless it is provided that failure to perform the duty is to be punished as provided in this section or it is clear from the context that it is the intent to impose the penalty provided for in this section upon the officer or employee.
(c)
Except as otherwise provided:
(1)
A person convicted of a violation of this Code shall be punished by a fine not exceeding $1,000.00 and costs, or imprisonment for a term not exceeding one year, or both such fine and imprisonment, or any or all of such penalties to be imposed at the discretion of the judge of the municipal court.
(2)
With respect to violations of this Code that are continuous with respect to time, each day the violation continues is a separate offense.
(3)
With respect to violations of this Code that are not continuous with respect to time, each day the violation continues is a separate offense.
(d)
The imposition of a penalty does not prevent revocation or suspension of a license, permit or franchise or other administrative sanctions.
(e)
Violations of this Code that are continuous with respect to time are a public nuisance and may be abated by injunctive or other equitable relief and by such other means as are provided by law. The imposition of a penalty does not prevent equitable relief.
(Code 1992, § 1-110)
State Law reference— Limitations on penalties, O.C.G.A. § 36-35-6(a)(2); authority to punish ordinance violations by requiring labor, O.C.G.A. § 36-30-8.
Sec. 1-10. - Property annexation procedures.
Pursuant to the Georgia Municipal Code, all annexations and deannexations shall be undertaken in accordance with O.C.G.A. title 36, ch. 36.
(Code 1992, § 1-111; Ord. of 3-9-1993; Ord. No. 2011-03, 7-11-2011)
Sec. 1-11. - Substantive compliance with Code.
Substantive compliance with any requirement of this Code, or ordinances, especially on the part of public officers, shall be deemed and held sufficient, and no proceeding shall be declared void for want of such compliance, unless expressly so provided by the enactment.
Sec. 1-12. - Provisions considered as continuations of existing ordinances.
The provisions appearing in this Code, insofar as they are the same as those of ordinances and resolutions existing at the time of adoption of this Code, shall be considered as continuations thereof and not as new enactments.
Sec. 1-13. - Prior offenses, penalties, contracts or rights not affected by adoption of Code.
(a)
Nothing in this Code or the ordinance adopting this Code shall affect any offense or act committed or done or any penalty or forfeiture incurred or any contract or right established or accruing before the effective date of this Code.
(b)
The adoption of this Code shall not be interpreted as authorizing or permitting any use or the continuance of any use of a structure or premises in violation of any ordinance or resolution in effect on the date of adoption of this Code.
Sec. 1-14. - Supplementation of Code.
modified
(a)
By contract or by city personnel, supplements to this Code shall be prepared at least on an annual basis. A supplement to this Code shall include all substantive, permanent and general parts of ordinances passed by the city council during the period covered by the supplement and all changes made thereby in the Code. The pages of a supplement shall be so numbered that they will fit properly into the Code and will, where necessary, replace pages which have become obsolete or partially obsolete, and the new pages shall be so prepared that, when they have been inserted, the Code will be current through the date of the adoption of the latest ordinance included in the supplement.
(b)
In preparing a supplement to this Code, all portions of the Code which have been repealed shall be excluded from the Code by the omission thereof from reprinted pages.
(c)
When preparing a supplement to this Code, the codifier (meaning the person authorized to prepare the supplement) may make formal, nonsubstantive changes in ordinances and parts of ordinances included in the supplement, insofar as it is necessary to do so to embody them into a unified Code. For example, the codifier may:
(1)
Organize the ordinance material into appropriate subdivisions.
(2)
Provide appropriate catchlines, headings and titles for sections and other subdivisions of the Code printed in the supplement, and make changes in such catchlines, headings and titles.
(3)
Assign appropriate numbers to sections and other subdivisions to be inserted in the Code and, where necessary to accommodate new material, change existing section or other subdivision numbers.
(4)
Change the words "this ordinance" or words of the same meaning to "this chapter," "this article," "this division," etc., as the case may be, or to "sections _____ to _____" (inserting section numbers to indicate the sections of the Code which embody the substantive sections of the ordinance incorporated into the Code).
(5)
Make other nonsubstantive changes necessary to preserve the original meanings of ordinance sections inserted into the Code; but in no case shall the codifier make any change in the meaning or effect of ordinance material included in the supplement or already embodied in the Code.
Sec. 1-15. - Ordinances not affected by adoption of the Code.
Nothing in this Code or the ordinance adopting this Code shall be construed to repeal or otherwise affect the validity of any of the following:
(1)
Any offense or act committed or done or any penalty or forfeiture incurred or any contract or right established or accruing before the effective date of this Code;
(2)
Any ordinance or resolution promising or guaranteeing the payment of money for the city or authorizing the issuance of any bonds of the city or any evidence of the city's indebtedness;
(3)
Any contract or obligation assumed by the city;
(4)
Any ordinance fixing the salary of any city officer or employee, unless superseded;
(5)
Any ordinance or resolution establishing and/or prescribing employment, benefits, and/or personnel policies and procedures for any city officer or city employee;
(6)
Any right or franchise granted by the city;
(7)
Any ordinance or resolution dedicating, naming, establishing, locating, relocating, opening, widening, paving, etc., any street or public way in the city;
(8)
Any appropriation ordinance;
(9)
Any ordinance or resolution which, by its own terms, is effective for a stated or limited term;
(10)
Any ordinance or resolution providing for local improvements and assessing taxes therefor;
(11)
Any zoning ordinance or amendments thereto, and any ordinance establishing a planning commission, including joint commissions;
(12)
Any ordinance or resolution dedicating or accepting any subdivision plat or providing for subdivision regulations;
(13)
Any ordinance or resolution describing or altering the boundaries of the city;
(14)
The administrative ordinances or resolutions of the city not in conflict or inconsistent with the provisions of this Code;
(15)
Any ordinance levying or imposing taxes not included herein;
(16)
Any ordinance or resolution establishing or prescribing street grades in the city;
(17)
Any ordinance or regulation prescribing traffic regulations for specific locations concerning through streets, parking limitations, parking prohibitions, one-way traffic, limitations on loads of vehicles or loading zones, not in conflict or inconsistent with this Code;
(18)
Any ordinance or resolution of agreement with another political subdivision; and
(19)
Any other ordinance or resolution, or part thereof, which is not of a general and permanent nature; or which is referred to elsewhere in this Code as continuing in effect. No such ordinance shall be construed to revive any ordinance or part thereof that has been repealed by a subsequent ordinance which is repealed by this chapter; and all such ordinances are hereby recognized as continuing in full force and effect to the same extent as if set out at length herein.
