Chapter 22 - FIRE PREVENTION AND PROTECTION[1]
Footnotes:
--- (1) ---
State Law reference— Police and fire protection, Ga. Const. art. IX, § II, ¶ III; statewide application of Standard Fire Prevention Code, O.C.G.A. § 8-2-25; adoption and enforcement of fire safety standards by certain counties, O.C.G.A. § 25-2-12; authority to enact ordinances or fire and life safety codes, O.C.G.A. § 25-3-4; construction and operation of watershed and flood control projects by counties, O.C.G.A. § 22-3-100 et seq.

ARTICLE I. - IN GENERAL

Sec. 22-1. - Definitions.
The following words, terms and phrases, when used in the fire prevention code adopted in section 22-25, shall have the meanings ascribed to them in this section, except where the context clearly indicates a different meaning.
Chief of the bureau of fire prevention means the chief of the city fire department, and whenever the term "bureau of fire prevention" is used in such code, it shall be held to mean the city fire department.
Corporation counsel means the city attorney.
(Code 1992, § 10-102)
Sec. 22-2. - Enforcement.
The fire prevention code adopted in section 22-25 shall be enforced by the fire chief and such subordinate officers and firefighters of the fire department as are required to effectuate the provisions of said code.
(Code 1992, § 10-103)
Sec. 22-3. - Power to make modifications.
The chief of the fire department shall be authorized to modify any of the provisions of the fire prevention code upon application in writing by the owner or lessee of any property, or his duly authorized agent, when there are practical difficulties in the way of carrying out the strict letter of the code; provided that the spirit of the code shall be observed and the public safety secured. The particulars of such modification when granted or allowed, and the decision of the fire chief thereon shall be entered upon the records of the department, and a signed copy shall be forwarded to the applicant.
(Code 1992, § 10-104)
Sec. 22-4. - Penalties.
Any person who shall violate any of the provisions of the fire prevention code or fail to comply therewith, or who shall violate or fail to comply with any order made thereunder, shall, for each such failure or violation or noncompliance, be punished according to the penalties described in the General Provisions chapter of this Code.
(Code 1992, § 10-105)
Secs. 22-5—22-24. - Reserved.
ARTICLE II. - FIRE PREVENTION CODE

Sec. 22-25. - Adoption of National Fire Prevention Code.
There is hereby adopted by the city council, for the purpose of prescribing regulations governing conditions hazardous to life and property from fire or explosion, that certain code as enumerated under O.C.G.A. § 8-2-20(9)(B)(i), except for such portions as may be hereinafter deleted, modified, or amended, of which code not less than one copy has been and now is filed in the office of the city clerk; and the same is adopted and incorporated as fully as if set out at length herein, and from the date on which the ordinance from which this section is derived shall take effect, the provisions thereof shall be controlling within the city limits.
(Code 1992, § 10-101)
