Chapter 16 - COURTS[1]

Footnotes:
--- (1) ---
State Law reference— City courts, O.C.G.A. § 15-8-1 et seq.; bonds, O.C.G.A. § 17-6-1 et seq.

Sec. 16-1. - Creation of municipal court.
It is hereby established a court to be known as the Municipal Court of the City of Arcade, Georgia, which shall have jurisdiction and authority to try offenses against the laws and ordinances of the city and to punish for a violation of the same. Such court shall have the power to enforce its judgments by the imposition of such penalties as may be provided by the laws of the state, to subpoena witnesses, to punish witnesses for nonattendance, and to try all offenses occurring within the territorial limits of the city, including traffic cases which, under the laws of the state, are now and hereinafter placed within the jurisdiction of municipal courts to the extent of and in accordance with the provisions of such laws and all laws subsequently enacted amendatory thereof. The presiding officer of such court shall be appointed by and serve at the pleasure of the city council and shall be known as the judge of the municipal court. The court shall be convened at the city hall or such other place within the city as designated by the judge of the municipal court, with the approval of the city council.
(Code 1992, § 5-101)
Sec. 16-2. - Appointment and qualifications of judge.
(a)
The judge of the municipal court shall be a member of the Georgia Bar, shall reside in the judicial district in which the court is located, shall be at least 21 years of age, and shall have practiced law either as an attorney or as a judge, for at least five years preceding. The city council shall provide for the compensation for his appointment.
(b)
The city council shall have authority to appoint standby associate judges to serve from time to time in the municipal judge's absence. Any standby associate judge shall possess the qualifications set forth in subsection (a) of this section for the judge of the municipal court and have the same powers granted to the judge of the municipal court.
(Code 1992, § 5-102)
Sec. 16-3. - Sessions of court.
(a)
A regular session of the municipal court shall be held at a fixed hour of a fixed day as may be determined by the judge; provided that any session may be dispensed with when there is no business pending in the court or no cases are ready for trial.
(b)
The municipal court may hold special sessions of court when, in the judge's opinion, it is necessary or there is urgent cause for the trial of accused persons before the next regularly-scheduled session of court.
(Code 1992, § 5-103)
Sec. 16-4. - Clerk of court.
(a)
The city administrator shall be clerk of court and shall be appointed or removed by the city council.
(b)
The clerk of court shall:
(1)
Prepare all subpoenas and warrants and maintain a docket thereof that will show the name of the person to whom the subpoena or warrant was issued, its date, at whose instance it was issued and to whom it was delivered;
(2)
Be the custodian of the seal of the court and have authority to certify copies of all official records of the court and to maintain the proper books of accounts, including receipts and disbursements, which the court may maintain; and
(3)
Perform such other duties as may be imposed upon him by the judge.
(Code 1992, § 5-104)
Sec. 16-5. - Practice.
(a)
The city shall have the opening and conclusion of each case, unless the defendant introduces no evidence; then he shall be entitled to the conclusion. The city shall announce first whether ready for trial and, if not ready, shall be held to as strict a showing for a continuance as the defendant. The rules of evidence shall be the same as in the superior court, as far as applicable to the case on trial.
(b)
Any person who is charged with an offense against any of the provisions of this Code, or any city ordinances, shall be informed by summons in writing served on him of the nature and cause of his accusation; shall have compulsory process for obtaining witnesses in his behalf; shall have a speedy trial; shall be confronted with the witnesses against him; and shall have the privilege of cross examination as in the superior courts of the state. The same rules as to examination of witnesses and the evidence adduced as obtained in such courts, as far as they are applicable to examining courts, shall be applicable to cases before the municipal court. The party accused shall have the privilege of defending himself, by counsel or by himself, or both, whichever shall seem proper to him. No one shall be condemned, fined, or punished without a chance of being heard in his defense.
(Code 1992, § 5-106)
Sec. 16-6. - Form and execution of summons.
It shall be the duty of the clerk of court in all cases where complaint is made or information given of any violation of the Code or city ordinances, whether the party is confined in jail or not, to issue a summons directed to the accused requiring such offender to appear in municipal court to answer such charge, which summons shall set forth the offense, and the time and place of trial, bear test in the name of the judge of the municipal court, be signed officially by the clerk of court, and directed to the police chief or any city police officer to be executed, which police officer shall execute the same by serving a copy on the accused or leaving it at his place of residence.
(Code 1992, § 5-107)
Sec. 16-7. - Witness—Subpoena.
Whenever the attendance of any witness may be required before the court to establish any fact, the clerk of court shall issue a subpoena, directed to the witness, stating the time and place of trial and the parties to the case, and bearing test in the name of the judge of municipal court, which subpoena shall be served as other summons by any police officer.
(Code 1992, § 5-108)
Sec. 16-8. - Same—Defaulting.
If any person so summoned as a witness shall fail, neglect, or refuse to attend a trial, or render at the time a sufficient excuse in the judgment of the court, the defaulting witness shall be liable for a fine to be determined by the city council from time to time and, if the cause shall be continued on account of the witness's absence, the court may issue an attachment against such witness requiring him to show cause on the day appointed for trial why he should not be further dealt with for contempt. Any police officer, by virtue of such attachment, shall arrest and confine the person, so as to have him before the court at such time as may be appointed for further hearing of the original complaint.
(Code 1992, § 5-109)
Sec. 16-9. - Continuances.
Where the ends of justice require it, cases may be continued. All continuances shall be addressed to the sound legal discretion of the court under the rules governing the superior courts of the state.
(Code 1992, § 5-110)
Sec. 16-10. - Plea of guilty in absence of defendant.
Any party against whom any compliant is lodged or information given may file a plea of guilty under such regulations and upon terms as the court may prescribe and, if such party cannot attend the trial, the court may pass such order or sentence in the case as if the party were personally present, if the defendant consents thereto.
(Code 1992, § 5-112)
Sec. 16-11. - Persons implicated to be tried.
If, on the trial of any cause before the municipal court, it appears that any other person besides the one on trial has violated a provision of this Code or any city ordinance, he may then and there be tried if present, unless the case is continued for legal cause.
(Code 1992, § 5-113)
Sec. 16-12. - Docket.
A docket shall be kept in the office of the clerk of court on which shall appear the name of every defendant charged with a violation of this Code or any city ordinances, or of any offense over which the municipal court has jurisdiction and, at the trial of all cases in the municipal court, the municipal court judge shall record opposite the statement of the case the punishment inflicted and the date; and the clerk of the court shall enter, under the municipal court judge's sentence, the final disposition of the case (i.e., whether the fine, if any, was collected and the date of such collection, and when and to whom such amounts were turned over by the clerk of the court).
(Code 1992, § 5-115)
Sec. 16-13. - Enforcement of penalties against corporations.
Whenever a corporation shall violate any provision of this Code or any city ordinance, a warrant shall be issued against such corporation for violating such provisions, and the clerk of the court shall issue a copy of such warrant, which shall be served by the police chief or any city police officer upon any officer of the corporation; and the police officer serving such copy shall at the time notify such person upon whom such service is made of the time and place of trial, and shall make an entry of such service upon the warrant, showing the time of service and upon whom the service was made, and return the same to the municipal court, and docket the case, which case shall stand for trial in the order which other cases against individuals for violation of city ordinances are tried. If, on the trial, the defendant corporation fails to appear, or appearing fails to plead, the judge of the municipal court shall cause to be entered a plea of not guilty, and trial shall proceed as though the defendant has appeared and pleaded. Upon conviction of any corporation, there shall be rendered judgment against it for the fine imposed by the presiding officer, together with all costs of prosecution, upon which judgment the clerk of the court shall issue an execution against the defendant, which shall be levied and collected by the police chief as tax executions in favor of the city are now allowed by law to be levied and collected.
(Code 1992, § 5-116)
Sec. 16-14. - Appearance bond—Security requirement; maximum amount.
The police chief, a member of the police department, the municipal court judge, the sheriff of the county, or his deputy may take bond, with security or without security, at his discretion in a sum not exceeding $1,000.00 for the appearance of any party accused or suspected of being guilty of a violation of any provision of this Code or any city ordinance, or any offense over which the municipal court has jurisdiction, to stand to and abide by his trial before the municipal court, and also of witnesses to testify in any case pending or about to be commenced in such court.
(Code 1992, § 5-117)
Sec. 16-15. - Same—Failure or refusal to give, subsequent confinement or guard.
If either party or witness shall fail or refuse to give the bond and security as required of them, or either of them, such person so failing or refusing may be confined to the jail of the county, or other place in the county as may be directed by the municipal court judge, so as to be present to abide the trial or to testify, as the case may be.
(Code 1992, § 5-118)
Sec. 16-16. - Same—Forfeiture for failure to appear; service of rule.
All bail taken under this chapter shall be special bail, and the power of the security over the principal shall be the same as in the special bail. Upon the failure of any principal to appear in any bond or recognizance given by a person charged with a violation of any provision of this Code or any city ordinance, or of any offense over which municipal court has jurisdiction, or by a witness to appear and testify, the presiding officer shall pass a rule requiring the principal and sureties on such bond to show cause on a day therein named not to be less than ten days from the passage of such rule, why he should not be required to pay the amount of such bond. A copy of such rule shall be served upon the principal and security by any officer or member of the police force at least five days before the time therein set for hearing the same.
(Code 1992, § 5-119)
Sec. 16-17. - Same—Judgment.
If no sufficient cause is shown, the municipal judge shall proceed to enter judgment against such principal and sureties for the amount of the bond forfeited as provided herein, and the city clerk shall issue execution for the amount of such judgment and place the same in the hands of the police chief, who shall proceed to collect the same by levy and sale as in case of tax executions.
(Code 1992, § 5-120)
Sec. 16-18. - Same—Surrender of principal.
Any surety upon a bail bond of any person charged with a violation of a provision of this Code or a city ordinance, or of any offense over which the municipal court has jurisdiction, may surrender his principal at any time to the police chief, who shall confine such principal, until discharged by order of the judge of the municipal court, or other proper officer, or by giving other and good security. The delivery of the principal as aforesaid shall discharge the surety of all further liability upon such bond, provided that delivery shall be before any judgment of forfeiture upon the bond shall have been entered.
(Code 1992, § 5-121)
Sec. 16-19. - Professional bondsman.
(a)
No professional bondsman shall be accepted as surety on a bail bond unless he has deposited with the city clerk the sum of $5,000.00 to guarantee the payment of any bond, if forfeited, which he may sign. In the event the defendant named in any bond signed by a professional bondsman fails to appear according to the conditions of the bond, and the bond is forfeited, the city clerk shall deduct the amount of the bond from the deposit made as herein required and pay the same into the city treasury. If at any time the balance on deposit diminishes to $2,500.00 or less, the bondsman shall not be accepted as surety on a bail bond again until he has deposited with the city clerk an amount sufficient to restore the deposit to the original required amount.
(b)
Qualifications. Professional bondsmen shall meet the following qualifications:
(1)
Each bondsman shall provide the city with a current period financial statement, including a documented balance sheet.
(2)
Each bondsman shall provide the city with a copy of his business license.
(3)
Each bondsman shall provide a written proposal outlining the steps he takes as a surety to identify and locate potential defendants who fail to appear on the original court date.
(4)
Each bondsman shall provide a written history of his experience in the bonding business, including a statement listing the principals, officers, directors, and shareholders of his corporation.
(5)
Each bondsman shall update this information annually.
(6)
Each bondsman shall submit to and must pass a full investigation by the police chief, including a state and federal criminal history check. Any information which demonstrates any involvement in criminal activity shall be grounds for disqualification of the applicant.
(Ord. of 11-10-2008, § 5-122)
