ARTICLE XV. - LEGAL STATUS PROVISIONS

Sec. 47-423. - Conflict with other regulations.
Whenever the regulations of this chapter require a greater width or size of yards, courts, or other open spaces; require a lower height of buildings or smaller number of stories; require a greater percentage of lot to be left unoccupied; or impose other more restrictive standards than are required in or under any other ordinance or statute, the regulations and requirements of this chapter shall govern. Whenever the provisions of any other statute or ordinance require more restrictive standards than are required by this chapter, the provisions of such statute or ordinance shall govern.
(Min. of 11-10-2016, ยง 17.1)
Sec. 47-424. - Separability/severability.
Should any section or provision of this chapter be declared by the courts to be unconstitutional or invalid, such declaration shall not affect the validity of the chapter as a whole or any part thereof other than the part so declared to be unconstitutional or invalid. It is the intent of the mayor and city council that any provision declared unconstitutional shall be severed from the chapter and the remainder of the chapter remain in effect.
(Min. of 11-10-2016, ยง 17.2)
Sec. 47-425. - Repealer.
This chapter repeals and replaces the zoning ordinance existing immediately prior to its adoption. In the event that this chapter is struck down in its entirety as void, unconstitutional or invalid, including, therefore, this provision, that prior ordinance shall be considered to not have been repealed.
(Min. of 11-10-2016, ยง 17.3)
Sec. 47-426. - Official zoning map adopted.
The Official Zoning Map of Adairsville, Georgia, is hereby adopted. Said map shall be that map signed by the mayor and dated contemporaneously with the adoption of this chapter. It is the intent of the adoption of this official zoning map to readopt and replace the previously existing zoning map; in the event that there are conditions of record applicable to individual properties as the result of prior zoning decisions, those conditions shall continue to be in force and shall not be repealed by the adoption of this official zoning map. The official zoning map shall be a public record, and it shall be available to the public for inspection during the regular business hours of the city.
(Min. of 11-10-2016, ยง 17.4)
