ARTICLE I. - IN GENERAL

Sec. 45-1. - City utilities operated in compliance with state and federal regulations; rate increases.
(a)
The city operates a water and sewer system and a natural gas utility, all in compliance with applicable state and federal laws and regulations. For proper maintenance and operation of these utilities, rates charged by the city for utility services will increase annually at the rate of three percent, unless the city council expressly provides for a different rate by resolution.
(b)
Any new or existing user of the water or sewer system seeking a new connection to the city's system shall pay connection fees in order to recover a proportionate share of the cost to provide service, as well as paying for future expansion necessitated by the user, in the form of water and sewer capacity recovery and tap fees, as stated in the city's schedule of fees.
(c)
Non-residential users of the water or sewer system shall pay a connection fee that is determined by the number of equivalent residential units the non-residential user is expected to use or produce. Any existing non-residential user seeking to increase the use of water or wastewater discharge by more than one equivalent residential unit shall pay connection fees in the amount of the difference between the previously paid connection fee and the anticipated new use, measured in equivalent residential units. The city may audit non-residential users from time to time to verify that the actual amount of water used or wastewater discharged is consistent with the connection fees that were actually paid, and if it is found that a user paid a fee that is based upon an anticipated use that is less than the actual use or discharge, the difference may be billed to the user as a condition of continued service.
(Ord. No. 2022-0008, § 1(Exh. A), 12-8-2022)
Sec. 45-2. - Utility availability statement.
(a)
Developers of new construction residential or commercial developments desiring city utilities must request from the city prior to beginning construction a statement of utility availability which shall be valid for a period of one year from the date of its issuance.
(b)
For purposes of this section, availability means that utility service is available to the property and that the service lines and facilities have adequate capacity to serve the development while still maintaining an appropriate level of service to the other users of the system. In making this determination, the city may consider both existing users and also users that have been approved for connection but have not yet done so. The city administration may rely on qualified engineers and experts in making the determination of whether utility service is available and whether there is adequate capacity to serve for the proposed development. The sewer capacity analysis is outlined in section 45-36. The water capacity analysis is outlined in section 45-80.
(c)
City water and sewer service is provided to the residents and properties within the limits of Adairsville's service area for each as defined by the most recent Bartow County Service Delivery Strategy. New service of properties outside of the service area shall be allowed only with the express written consent of the city and the governing agency of the adjacent service delivery area.
(d)
In the event of a request for utility service at a location in which it has been determined that adequate service capacity is unavailable, the city may condition new utility connections on the payment by the user or developer of the cost of new or improved infrastructure required to serve the development.
(Ord. No. 2022-0008, § 1(Exh. A), 12-8-2022)
Secs. 45-3—45-22. - Reserved.
