Chapter 31 - NUISANCES
ARTICLE I. - IN GENERAL

Sec. 31-1. - Defined.
The following words, terms and phrases, when used in this article, shall have the meanings ascribed to them in this section, except where the context clearly indicates a different meaning:
Nuisance means anything within the city that causes hurt, inconvenience or damage to another; and the fact that the act done may otherwise be lawful shall not keep it from being a nuisance. The inconvenience complained of shall not be fanciful or such as would affect only one of fastidious taste, but it shall be such as would affect an ordinary, reasonable person. Any such nuisance may be abated as provided in this article.
Sec. 31-2. - Enumeration.
(a)
The various nuisances described and enumerated in this section shall not be deemed to be exclusive but shall be in addition to all other nuisances described and prohibited in the Code of the City of Adairsville.
(b)
The following are declared to be nuisances:
(1)
Things interfering with peace or comfort. Sounds, animals, or things that interfere with the peace or comfort or disturb the quiet of the city.
(2)
Obnoxious, offensive odors. The emission of obnoxious and offensive odors, the tainting of the air rendering it offensive or unwholesome so as to affect the health or comfort of reasonable persons residing in the neighborhood.
(3)
Discharging of offensive matter. The placing, throwing, or discharging from any house or premises, and flow from or out of any house or premises, of any filthy, foul or offensive matter or liquid of any kind, into any street, alley or public place or upon any adjacent lot or ground.
(4)
Water pollution. The obstruction or pollution of any watercourse or source of water supply in the city.
(5)
Emission of dense smoke. The emission of dense smoke from any fire, chimney, engine, oil burner or other agency in the city so as to cause disturbance or discomfort to the public. For the purpose of testing and grading the density of smoke, the Ringelmann Smoke Chart, as published and used by the United States Geological Survey, shall be the standard for such grading; and smoke shall be defined and declared to be dense when it is of a degree of density of number three on the chart, or greater, for more than six minutes in any one hour, whether such period of time is consecutive or not.
(6)
Vacant lots. Any vacant lot whereon debris is permitted to accumulate and remain in such a manner as to create a fire hazard or other hazard to the public health, safety and welfare.
(7)
Nonconforming structures and machines. Any building, business, thing, machine or machinery erected, repaired, conducted, maintained, operated or used contrary to or in violation of any of the fire and safety regulations of this Code, state law or city ordinance.
(8)
Animal enclosures. Any enclosure in which any animals are kept, dog kennels, or runs and other animal or fowl pens wherein manure, dung, filth or litter is allowed to accumulate.
(9)
Dead animals. The carcass of any dead animal of any kind on any premises within the city.
(10)
Depositing trash, garbage and refuse on private or public property. The depositing and leaving on private property or public property of trash, garbage, refuse, scrap building materials, paper, cardboard containers, brick, cement, rubbish, tree residue, grass and vegetative debris, dirt and mud piles, cans, containers or any other rubbish or trash that is a menace to public health and safety in the city or which unreasonably annoys others.
(11)
Unoccupied buildings. Unoccupied buildings that are not properly secured, whitewashed, maintained or cleaned.
(12)
Unsafe vehicles, machinery and equipment. Unsheltered storage of old, unused, stripped, junked and other automobiles not in good and safe operating condition, and of any other vehicles, machinery, implements or equipment and personal property of any kind that is no longer safely usable for the purposes for which it was manufactured for a period of 30 days or more, except in licensed junkyards. The absence of a license plate for the current year or the absence of a current motor vehicle registration shall be prima facie evidence that such vehicle is junk.
(13)
Gutters or spouts. Any gutter or spout that conveys filth into any street, lane or alley of the city.
(14)
External storage of household goods. Storage or accumulation of household goods in the front yards of residential properties.
(15)
Mosquito breeding areas. Any collection of standing or flowing water in which mosquitoes breed or are likely to breed unless such collection of water is so treated as to effectively prevent such breeding.
(16)
Particulate matter. The release of particulate matter into the air as a gas or smoke in a concentration that is harmful to health or causes property damage.
(Ord. No. 2018-0001, § 2, 4-12-2018)
Sec. 31-3. - Prohibited generally.
It is unlawful for any person to maintain or permit the existence of any nuisance on any property within the city.
Sec. 31-4. - Abatement action.
(a)
Whenever any nuisance exists within the city, or whenever any condition shall exist on any property within the city that is required or subject to be demolished, removed or abated under any of the ordinances of the city, and the owner or other responsible person refuses or fails after reasonable notice to demolish, remove or abate the nuisance, the chief of police or the city's code enforcement officer may issue a summons and cause the summons to be served upon such owner or other person responsible for such condition, describing the condition complained of and specifying the ordinances or parts of ordinances claimed to be violated, and requiring such person to appear before the municipal judge at a time, date and place specified in the summons, to show cause why such condition should not be demolished, removed or abated. The action for nuisance abatement shall be subject to the procedures of state law pertaining to nuisance abatement, as they may be amended from time to time.
(b)
If the municipal judge determines that a condition does exist as alleged that constitutes a nuisance or a condition which under this Code or the ordinances of the city is required or subject to be demolished, removed or abated, the judge shall issue his order and judgment so finding and shall order the property owner or other responsible person to demolish, remove or abate the condition within a period of time to be fixed by the judge.
(c)
The order shall provide how the condition is to be abated, including, but not limited to, rehabilitation or demolition of any buildings or structures located on the property in question. The order shall further provide that if the property owner or other responsible person shall fail to comply with the order within the time specified, the city shall be authorized to proceed without further notice to demolish, remove or abate such condition and to take whatever actions deemed necessary to demolish, remove or abate such condition; and the expense shall be charged against the owner of the property in question and shall be a lien against the property upon which the condition existed, ranking equally with the lien for city taxes.
(d)
Execution shall issue for such costs as in the case of city taxes, and the procedure for the enforcement of the execution shall be the same as in the case of city taxes.
(e)
Whenever any condition shall exist which constitutes an immediate and grave hazard to public health and safety requiring immediate action, the condition may be abated or otherwise remedied summarily and without following the procedures set forth above.
(f)
Whenever it shall be necessary for the city to proceed to file a nuisance abatement action and the owner of the property or other responsible person resides outside the city limits, or cannot be found after diligent search, service of the notice shall be made by posting a copy of the notice on the property involved, and by publishing the notice in a newspaper having general circulation in the city once a week for four consecutive weeks, the last notice to be not longer than ten days nor less than one day prior to the hearing. Where the address of the person to be served is known, or where there is a last known address, a copy of the notice shall also be mailed to the person at such address by certified mail. In all cases where personal service cannot be made upon such person within the city limits, the case shall proceed as quasi in rem, and the execution shall issue in rem.
(g)
Nothing in this section shall in any way affect the power and authority of the municipal judge to punish for any violations which the conditions may constitute, nor shall it affect the power and authority of the municipal judge to punish by contempt the failure to comply with his order.
Secs. 31-5—31-26. - Reserved.
ARTICLE II. - SPECIFIC NUISANCES
DIVISION 1. - GENERALLY

Sec. 31-27. - Certain weeds, grasses and plants declared a nuisance; exemptions.
(a)
Any weeds such as jimson, burdock, ragweed, thistle, cocklebur or other weeds or other invasive species of a like kind found growing on any lot or tract of land in the city, and any weeds, grasses or plants other than trees, bushes, flowers or other ornamental plants growing to a height exceeding 12 inches anywhere in the city, are declared to be a nuisance, subject to abatement as provided in this division. It is unlawful for the owner, lessee, tenant or other person having the possession and control of real property, or responsible for its management, maintenance or upkeep, to permit the growth and accumulation of weeds, grass or other vegetation to a height in excess of 12 inches above the ground.
(b)
Garden flowers, vegetables, cultivated agricultural crops, ornamental shrubbery and trees shall not be considered weeds, grass or vegetation within the meaning of this section.
(c)
The provisions of this section shall apply only to property located within subdivisions of record in the office of the clerk of the superior court of the county, developed lots within the city, and to the original city lots. They shall not apply to undeveloped areas of unsubdivided land within the city.
(d)
For a violation of this section, an owner or resident of property may be given a citation, and, at the hearing on the citation, the municipal court may, in addition to other appropriate penalties under the law, order abatement, pursuant to O.C.G.A. § 41-2-5. The order of abatement may provide that, in the event the owner or resident fails to correct the violation within a specified time period, the city is authorized to cause the violation to be remedied and the cost of the abatement be placed as a lien against the property subject to collection in the same manner as judgements, utility bills and tax collections.
(e)
Prior to the commencement of each fiscal year, the city shall obtain bids from contractors or other qualified persons for clearing lots of weeds, grass and other vegetation not in excess of two inches in diameter, and for clearing lots of weeds, grass and other vegetation in excess of two inches but not in excess of four inches in diameter; and the mayor and city council shall award a contract to the lowest and best bidder. Such contract shall remain in effect during the ensuing fiscal year.
Sec. 31-28. - Keeping water in which mosquitoes may breed.
(a)
It is unlawful to have, keep, maintain, cause or permit within the city any collection of standing or flowing water in which mosquitoes breed or are likely to breed unless such collection of water is so treated as to effectively prevent such breeding. Collections of water subject to this section include, but are not limited to, ditches, pools, ponds, excavations, holes, depressions, open cesspools, privy vaults, fountains, cisterns, tanks, shallow wells, barrels, troughs (except horse troughs in frequent use), urns, cans, boxes, bottles, tubs, buckets, defective house roof gutters, tanks of flush closets or other similar water containers.
(b)
The method of treatment of any collections of water that are specified above shall be approved by the code enforcement officer and may be one or more of the following:
(1)
Screening with wire netting of at least 16 meshes to the inch each way, or with any other material that will effectively prevent the ingress or egress of mosquitoes.
(2)
Complete emptying every seven days of unscreened containers, followed by thorough drying and cleaning of such containers.
(3)
Using a larvicide approved and applied under the direction of the code enforcement officer.
(4)
Cleaning and keeping sufficiently free of vegetable growth and other obstructions, and stocking with mosquito-destroying fish.
(5)
Filling and draining to the satisfaction of the code enforcement officer, his agent or accredited representative.
(6)
Proper disposal by removal or destruction of tin cans, tin boxes, broken or empty bottles and similar articles likely to hold water.
(c)
The natural presence of mosquito larvae in standing or running water shall be evidence that mosquitoes are breeding there; and failure to prevent such breeding within three days after notice by the code enforcement officer, his authorized agent or representative, shall be deemed a violation of this division.
(d)
Should the person responsible for conditions giving rise to the breeding of mosquitoes fail or refuse to take necessary measures to prevent the breeding of mosquitoes, within three days after due notice has been given to him, the code enforcement officer or his authorized agent is authorized to do so; and all necessary costs incurred by him for this purpose shall be a charge against the property owner or other offending person, as the case may be.
(e)
For the purpose of enforcing the provisions of this division, the code enforcement officer or his duly accredited agent under his authority, may at all reasonable times lawfully enter in and upon any premises within his jurisdiction.
Sec. 31-29. - Graffiti.
(a)
As used in this section, the term "graffiti" means any inscriptions, words, figures, paintings, or other defacements that are written, marked, etched, scratched, sprayed, drawn, painted, or engraved on or otherwise affixed to any surface of real property or improvements thereon without prior authorization of the owner or occupant of the property by means of any aerosol paint container, broad-tipped marker, gum label, paint stick, graffiti stick, etching equipment, brush, or other device capable of scarring or leaving a visible mark on any surface.
(b)
It is unlawful and a public nuisance for any person to apply graffiti to any structure within the city and for any person having a legal or equitable interest in a parcel of real property to permit graffiti to remain on a structure located thereon.
(c)
When the city becomes aware of the existence of graffiti in violation of this section, the designated code enforcement officer shall cause a notice to be issued to abate such nuisance. The property owner shall be given seven days from the date of the notice to remove the graffiti.
(d)
The notice to abate graffiti pursuant to this section shall be a written notice and shall be served upon the owner of the affected property, as such owner name and address appears on the last property tax assessment rolls. If there is no known address for the owner, the notice shall be sent to the property address. The notice may be served by personal service on the owner, occupant or manager of the property; by registered or certified mail addressed to the owner; or by posting a copy on the property.
(e)
If the graffiti is not removed within seven days of the date of the notice to remove, the property owner and occupant shall be issued citation for violation of this section and subject to penalties as provided in section 1-11 and assessment of costs as deemed appropriate by the municipal court.
State Law reference— Similar definition of graffiti, O.C.G.A. § 17-15A-2.
Secs. 31-30—31-59. - Reserved.
DIVISION 2. - NOISE NUISANCES

Sec. 31-60. - Purpose.
The purpose of this division is to regulate loud and obtrusive noises that disrupt the peace and welfare of the citizens of the city, to provide for limitations on loud noises based upon residential and nonresidential real property use, to provide time limitations on loud noises, to provide limitations on commercial noises, to provide penalties for the production of noises in violation of this division, and to promote the public health, safety and general welfare of the citizens of the county.
Sec. 31-61. - Definitions.
The following words, terms and phrases, when used in this division, shall have the meanings ascribed to them in this section, except where the context clearly indicates a different meaning:
Commercial noises means any noise produced by a business operation, whether upon residential or non-residential property.
Noise, for the purpose of this division, means any manmade sound.
Nonresidential property, for the purpose of this division, and regardless of zoning classification, means any real property which has as its primary purpose a use other than as a residence.
Residential property, for the purpose of this division, and regardless of zoning classification, means any real property which is used as a residence for its primary purpose.
Sec. 31-62. - Violation.
(a)
It shall be a violation of this division for any person upon residential property to produce noises that are plainly audible beyond the bounds of the residential property between the hours of 11:00 p.m. and 7:00 a.m.
(b)
It shall be a violation of this division for any nonresidential property owner or employee, agent, member or guest thereof to produce noises plainly audible at a distance 50 feet beyond the boundary of the nonresidential property between the hours of 10:00 p.m. and 7:00 a.m.
(c)
It shall be a violation of this division for any person or any entity to produce commercial noises plainly audible beyond the bounds of any property upon which it is produced between the hours of 10:00 p.m. and 7:00 a.m.
Sec. 31-63. - Motor vehicle noises.
(a)
It shall be a violation of this division for any person operating or occupying a motor vehicle on a public street or highway to operate or amplify the sound produced by a radio, tape player, or other mechanical sound-making device or instrument from within the motor vehicle so that the sound is plainly audible at a distance of 100 feet or more from the motor vehicle.
(b)
It shall be a violation of this division for any person operating a motor vehicle on a public street or highway to operate the vehicle in such a manner as to create excessive noise, not reasonably necessary to the safe operation of the vehicle for transportation.
Sec. 31-64. - Fireworks.
(a)
Fireworks and consumer fireworks, as defined by state law at O.C.G.A. § 25-10-1, as it may be amended from time to time, shall not be ignited within the city except at a time, place and manner in compliance with state law.
(b)
Except on dates specifically allowed by state law, between the hours of 9:00 p.m. and 11:59 p.m., the ignition of consumer fireworks shall be a nuisance and shall be prohibited unless a special use permit has been issued by the city council. Persons and entities desiring to obtain a special use permit for a fireworks or consumer fireworks display shall file an application with the city manager along with an application fee of $100.00. The applicant shall mail a copy of the application to residents of the neighboring properties and shall provide a copy of the proof of mailing to the city manager. The application shall be considered by the city council at the next regularly scheduled council occurring at least 15 days after the certified mailing to neighbors is accomplished. The application shall be granted by the city council if it finds:
(1)
The application and applicant are in full compliance with state fireworks law;
(2)
The application clearly shows the time and place of the fireworks display; and
(3)
The fireworks display will be conducted in a way that will not be a nuisance to the community.
Sec. 31-65. - Air conditioners.
The maintenance of any refrigeration machinery or air conditioning, consisting of air compressors or rotating or reciprocating machinery, in such a manner as to create a noise disturbance across a residential real property boundary shall be a violation of this article.
(Code 2004, § 34-36)
Sec. 31-66. - Hours for construction work; exceptions.
The erection, excavation, demolition, alteration or repair of any building, structure or other improvement other than between the hours of 7:00 a.m. and 7:00 p.m. on weekdays shall be prohibited, except for work pursuant to one of the following exceptions:
(1)
In cases of emergency or urgent need in the interest of public health and safety, the city building official may permit work outside of the above-stated hours.
(2)
In the case of work in or adjacent to residentially-zoned districts, the unified zoning board may allow work outside of the above-stated hours upon making a determination that the public health and safety will not be impaired, and that strict compliance with the above-listed times would result in unnecessary loss or inconvenience. The process for such an application to the unified zoning board will be that provided for the consideration of a variance request.
(3)
The zoning administrator may approve administrative variances to allow work outside of the above-stated hours for work that is located in industrial or commercial zoning districts and where the work being performed is not adjacent to residentially-zoned property, upon finding that no nuisance is likely to be created by the work.
(Code 2004, § 34-37; Ord. No. 2021-0008, § 2, 12-9-2021; Ord. No. 2022-0001, § 2, 2-10-2022; Ord. No. 2022-0002, § 2, 4-14-2022)
Editor's note— Ord. No. 2022-0001, § 2, adopted February 10, 2022, changed the title of § 31-66 "construction or repairing of buildings" to "hours for construction work; exceptions."
Sec. 31-67. - Animals and birds.
The keeping of any animal or bird that will disturb the comfort or repose of any persons in the vicinity by making long, continual or frequent noise shall be a violation of this article.
(Code 2004, § 34-38)
Sec. 31-68. - Domestic power tools.
It shall be a violation of this article to operate or permit the operation of any mechanically powered saw, drill, sander, grinder, lawn or garden tool, lawnmower, or other similar device used outdoors, other than powered snow removal equipment, between the hours of 9:00 p.m. and 7:00 a.m., or on Saturday or Sunday before the hour of 8:30 a.m.
(Code 2004, § 34-39)
Sec. 31-69. - Emergency signaling devices.
It shall be a violation of this article for any person to intentionally sound or permit the sounding outdoors of any fire, burglar, or civil defense alarm, siren, whistle, or similar stationary emergency signaling device, except for emergency purposes or for testing. Testing of a stationary emergency signaling device shall occur at the same time of day each time such a test is performed, but not before 7:00 a.m. or after 9:00 p.m. Any such testing shall use only the minimum cycle test time. In no case shall such test time exceed 60 seconds. Testing of the complete emergency signaling system, including the functioning of the signaling and the personnel response to the signaling device, shall not occur before 7:00 a.m. or after 9:00 p.m. In no case shall such test exceed ten minutes. Further, it is unlawful to sound or permit the sounding of any exterior burglar or fire alarm or any motor vehicle burglar alarm unless such alarm is automatically terminated within two minutes of activation.
(Code 2004, § 34-40)
Sec. 31-70. - Horns; signaling devices.
The following shall be a violation of this article:
(1)
The sounding of any horn or signaling device on any automobile, motorcycle or other vehicle on any street or public place in the city except as a danger warning.
(2)
The creation of any unreasonably loud or harsh sound by means of any such signaling device and the sounding of any such device for an unreasonable period of time.
(3)
The use of any signaling device, except a police whistle or one operated by hand or electricity.
(4)
The use of any horn, whistle or other device operated by engine exhaust.
(5)
The use of any signaling device when traffic is held up for any reason.
(Code 2004, § 34-41)
Sec. 31-71. - Explosives, firearms, or similar devices.
It is unlawful for any person to use or fire any explosives, firearms, or similar devices which create impulsive sound so as to cause a noise disturbance across a real property boundary or on a public space or right-of-way, without first obtaining a special variance.
(Code 2004, § 34-42)
Sec. 31-72. - Loading; unloading; opening boxes.
The creation of a loud and excessive noise in connection with loading or unloading any vehicle or the opening and destruction of bales, boxes, crates and containers shall be a violation of this article.
(Code 2004, § 34-43)
Sec. 31-73. - Loudspeakers; amplifiers; other devices for production or reproduction of sound for advertising.
The using, operating or permitting to be played, used or operated of any radio receiving set, musical instrument, phonograph, loudspeaker, sound amplifier or other machine or device for the producing or reproducing of sound which is cast upon the public streets for the purpose of commercial advertising or attracting the attention of the public to any building or structure without a special permit from the city clerk or city council shall be a violation of this article. Announcements over loudspeakers can only be made by the announcer, in person and without the aid of any mechanical device.
(Code 2004, § 34-44)
Sec. 31-74. - Vehicle repair in residential areas.
The repairing, rebuilding, or testing of any motor vehicle, motorcycle, motor bicycle or motorboat within any residential area in such a manner as to disturb the peace, quiet, and comfort of the residents of the area shall be a violation of this article.
(Code 2004, § 34-47)
Sec. 31-75. - Motorcycles, go-carts, off-road vehicles.
The operation of any motorcycle, go-cart, dune buggy, or motorized off-road vehicle in such a manner as to cause a noise disturbance across a residential real property boundary in any residential district in the city shall be a violation of this article.
(Code 2004, § 34-48)
Sec. 31-76. - Hawkers; peddlers; vendors.
The shouting and crying of hawkers, peddlers and vendors which disturb the peace and quiet of the neighborhood shall be a violation of this article.
(Code 2004, § 34-49)
Sec. 31-77. - Sanitation pick-up.
The use or operation of any motorized vehicle for the purpose of gathering sanitation from designated sanitation dumpsters between the hours of 11:00 p.m. and 6:00 a.m. daily, within or adjacent to residential or noise sensitive areas, shall be a violation of the provisions of this article.
(Code 2004, § 34-50)
Sec. 31-78. - Adequate mufflers or sound-dissipative devices.
(a)
It is unlawful to operate or cause to be operated any motor vehicle or motorcycle not equipped with a muffler in good working order and in constant operation.
(b)
It is unlawful to remove or render inoperative or cause to be removed or rendered inoperative any muffler or sound dissipative device on a motor vehicle or motorcycle other than for purposes of maintenance, repair or replacement.
(Code 2004, § 34-51)
Sec. 31-79. - Exhausts.
The discharge into the open air of the exhaust of any steam engine, stationary internal combustion engine, motorboat or motor vehicle except through a muffler or other device that will effectively prevent loud or explosive noises shall be a violation of this article.
(Code 2004, § 34-52)
Sec. 31-80. - Defect in vehicle or load.
The use of any automobile, motorcycle or vehicle so out of repair, so loaded or in such manner as to create loud and unnecessary grating, grinding, rattling or other noise shall be a violation of this article.
(Code 2004, § 34-53)
Sec. 31-81. - Schools; courts; churches; hospitals.
The creation of any excessive noise on any street adjacent to any school, institution of learning, church or court while they are in session or adjacent to any hospital, and which unreasonably interferes with the work of such institution, or which disturbs or unduly annoys patients in the hospital, provided that conspicuous signs are displayed about such institutions indicating the presence of such institutions, shall be a violation of this article.
(Code 2004, § 34-54)
Sec. 31-82. - Noises to attract attention.
The use of any drum or other instrument or device for the purpose of attracting attention to any performance, show or sale by creation of noise shall be a violation of this article.
(Code 2004, § 34-55)
Sec. 31-83. - Transportation of metal rails, pillars or columns.
The transportation of rails, pillars or columns of iron, steel or other material over and along streets and other public places upon carts, drays, cars, trucks or in any other manner so loaded as to cause loud noises or as to disturb the peace and quiet of such streets or other public places shall be a violation of this article.
(Code 2004, § 34-56)
Sec. 31-84. - Pile drivers, hammers, other such appliances.
The operation from 6:00 p.m. to 7:00 a.m. of any piled river, steam shovel, pneumatic hammer, derrick, steam or electric hoist or other appliance, the use of which is attended by loud or unusual noise without a special permit from the city council, shall be a violation of this article.
(Code 2004, § 34-57)
Sec. 31-85. - Blowers.
The operation of any noise-creating blower or power fan or any internal combustion engine, the operation of which causes noise due to the explosion of operating gases or fluids, unless the noise from such blower or fan is muffled and such engine is equipped with a muffler device sufficient to deaden such noise, shall be a violation of this article.
(Code 2004, § 34-58)
Sec. 31-86. - Special permit required.
Any person desiring relief from any provision of this article shall apply for a special permit to cause or create a noise at sound levels which would otherwise be in violation of this article.
(Code 2004, § 34-81)
Sec. 31-87. - Application.
Applications for a special permit under this division shall be made in writing to the mayor, or the designee of the mayor, on forms provided for that purpose.
(Code 2004, § 34-82)
Sec. 31-88. - Fee.
A fee as set by the council and on file in the office of the city clerk shall accompany the application for a permit required by this division.
(Code 2004, § 34-83)
Sec. 31-89. - Conditions for issuance.
The mayor shall grant a special permit under the provisions of this division upon a showing by the applicant that:
(1)
Additional time is necessary for the applicant to alter or modify the activity in order to comply with the provisions of this article;
(2)
The activity, operation or noise source will be of a temporary duration and cannot be done in a manner that would comply with the provisions of this article; and
(3)
No reasonable alternative is available to the applicant.
(Code 2004, § 34-84)
Sec. 31-90. - Contents.
Any permit granted pursuant to this division shall contain thereon all conditions upon which such permit has been granted, including, but not limited to, the effective date, time of day, location, sound level limit or equipment limitation.
(Code 2004, § 34-85)
Sec. 31-91. - Expiration.
No special permit issued under this division shall be issued for a period in excess of 15 consecutive days.
(Code 2004, § 34-86)
Sec. 31-92. - Renewal.
Any special permit granted under this division may be renewed upon application to the mayor, or designee of the mayor, upon a showing that the reasons for which the permit was granted still exist.
(Code 2004, § 34-87)
