ARTICLE III. - OFFICERS AND EMPLOYEES
DIVISION 1. - GENERALLY

Sec. 2-124. - Adoption of personnel manual by reference.
The city maintains a personnel manual, as amended from time to time, which is adopted by reference as those fully set forth in this section.
Sec. 2-125. - Position classification and pay plans.
The city manager shall be responsible for the preparation of a position classification and pay plan which shall be submitted to the city council for approval. Such plan may apply to all employees of the city and any of its agencies, departments, boards, commissions, or authorities. When a pay plan has been adopted, the city council shall not increase or decrease the salary range applicable to any position except by amendment of such pay plan. For purposes of this section, all elected and appointed city officials are not city employees.
Sec. 2-126. - Bonds.
The officers and employees of this city, both elected and appointed, shall execute such surety or fidelity bonds in such amounts and upon such terms and conditions as the city council shall from time to time require by ordinance or as may be provided by law. Liability insurance coverage approved by the city council may be substituted for all or a portion of the required bond.
Sec. 2-127. - Elections.
(a)
Applicability of general law. All primaries and elections shall be held and conducted in accordance with state law.
(b)
Regular elections; time for holding. There shall be a municipal general election biennially in odd-numbered years on the Tuesday next following the first Monday in November. There shall be elected the mayor and two councilmembers at one election and at every other election thereafter. The remaining councilmember seats shall be filled at the election alternating with the first election so that a continuing body is created.
(c)
Nonpartisan elections. Political parties shall not conduct primaries for city offices, and all names of candidates for city offices shall be listed without party designations.
(d)
Election by majority vote. The mayor and councilmembers shall be elected by a majority vote of the votes cast for each position.
(e)
Special elections; vacancies. In the event that the office of mayor or councilmember shall become vacant, the city council or those remaining shall order a special election to fill the balance of the unexpired term of such official; provided, however, that if such vacancy occurs within 12 months of the expiration of the term of that office, the city council or those members remaining shall appoint a successor for the remainder of the term. In all other respects, the special election shall be held and conducted in accordance with state law.
(f)
Additional rules and regulations. Except as otherwise provided by this chapter, the city council shall, by ordinance, prescribe such rules and regulations as it deems appropriate to fulfill any options and duties under the state election code.
Sec. 2-128. - Removal of officers.
A councilmember, the mayor, or other appointed officers provided for in this chapter shall be removed from office for any one or more of the causes provided by applicable state law. Removal of an officer shall be accomplished by one of the following methods:
(1)
Following a hearing at which an impartial panel shall render a decision. In the event an elected officer is sought to be removed by the action of the city council, such officer shall be entitled to a written notice specifying the ground or grounds for removal and to a public hearing which shall be held not less than ten days after the service of such written notice. The city council shall provide by ordinance for the manner in which such hearings shall be held. Any elected officer sought to be removed from office as provided in this section shall have the right of appeal from the decision of the city council to the superior court of the county. Such appeal shall be governed by the same rules as govern appeals to the superior court from the probate court; or
(2)
By an order of the superior court of the county following a hearing on a complaint seeking such removal brought by any resident of the city.
Sec. 2-129. - City attorney.
The city council shall appoint a city attorney, together with such assistant city attorneys as may be authorized, and shall provide for the payment of such attorney or attorneys for services rendered to the city. The city attorney shall be responsible for providing for the representation and defense of the city in all litigation in which the city is a party; may be the prosecuting officer in the municipal court; shall attend the meetings of the city council as directed; shall advise the councilmembers, mayor, and other officers and employees of the city concerning legal aspects of the city's affairs; and shall perform such other duties as may be required by virtue of such person's position as city attorney.
Sec. 2-130. - City clerk.
The councilmembers shall appoint a city clerk who shall not be a councilmember. The city clerk shall be custodian of the official city seal and city records; maintain city council records required by this chapter; and perform such other duties as may be required by the city council.
Secs. 2-131—2-158. - Reserved.
DIVISION 2. - MAYOR

Sec. 2-159. - Election of mayor; forfeiture; compensation.
The mayor shall be elected and shall serve for a term of four years and until the mayor's successor is elected and qualified. The mayor shall be a qualified elector of this city and shall have been a resident of the city for 12 months prior to the election. The mayor shall continue to reside in this city during the period of the mayor's service. The mayor shall forfeit the office of mayor on the same grounds and under the same procedure as for councilmembers. The compensation of the mayor shall be established in the same manner as for councilmembers.
Sec. 2-160. - Powers and duties of mayor.
The mayor shall:
(1)
Preside at all meetings of the city council;
(2)
Be the head of the city for the purpose of service of process and for ceremonial purposes and be the official spokesperson for the city and the chief advocate of policy;
(3)
Have the power to administer oaths and to take affidavits;
(4)
Sign as a matter of course on behalf of the city all written and approved contracts, ordinances, and other instruments executed by the city which by law are required to be in writing;
(5)
Vote on matters before the city council and be counted toward a quorum as any other councilmember;
(6)
Prepare and submit to the city council a recommended annual operating budget and recommended capital budget; and
(7)
Fulfill such other executive and administrative duties as the city council shall by ordinance establish.
Sec. 2-161. - Veto power.
(a)
Every ordinance adopted by the councilmembers shall be presented promptly by the city clerk to the mayor after its adoption.
(b)
The mayor, within ten calendar days of receipt of an ordinance, shall return it to the city clerk with or without the mayor's approval or with the mayor's disapproval. If the ordinance has been approved by the mayor, it shall become law upon its return to the city clerk; if the ordinance is neither approved nor disapproved, it shall become law at 12:00 noon on the tenth calendar day after its adoption; if the ordinance is disapproved, the mayor shall submit to the councilmembers through the city clerk a written statement of the reasons for the veto. The city clerk shall record upon the ordinance the date of its delivery to and receipt from the mayor.
(c)
Ordinances vetoed by the mayor shall be presented by the city clerk to the councilmembers at their next meeting. If the councilmembers then or at their next meeting adopt the ordinance by an affirmative vote of three members, it shall become law.
(d)
The mayor may disapprove or reduce any item or items of appropriation in any ordinance. The approved part or parts of any ordinance making appropriations shall become law, and the part or parts disapproved shall not become law unless subsequently passed by the councilmembers over the mayor's veto as provided in this section. The reduced part or parts shall be presented to the councilmembers as though disapproved and shall not become law unless overridden by the councilmembers as provided in subsection (c) of this section.
Secs. 2-162—2-190. - Reserved.
DIVISION 3. - CITY MANAGER

Sec. 2-191. - City manager; appointment; qualifications; compensation.
The city council shall appoint a city manager for an indefinite term and shall fix the city manager's compensation. The city manager shall be appointed solely on the basis of that person's executive and administrative qualifications.
Sec. 2-192. - Removal of city manager.
(a)
The city council may remove the city manager from office in accordance with the following procedures:
(1)
The city council shall adopt by affirmative vote of a majority of all its members a preliminary resolution which shall state the reasons for removal and may suspend the city manager from duty for a period not to exceed 45 days. A copy of the resolution shall be delivered promptly to the city manager;
(2)
Within five days after a copy of the resolution is delivered to the city manager, that person may file with the city council a written request for a public hearing. This hearing shall be held within 30 days after the request is filed. The city manager may file with the city council a written reply not later than five days before the hearing; and
(3)
If the city manager has not requested a public hearing within the time specified in subsection (2) of this section, the city council may adopt a final resolution for removal, which may be made effective immediately, by an affirmative vote of a majority of all its members. If the city manager has requested a public hearing, the city council may adopt a final resolution for removal, which may be made effective immediately, by an affirmative vote of a majority of all its members at any time after the public hearing.
(b)
The city manager shall continue to receive the city manager's salary until the effective date of a final resolution of removal.
Sec. 2-193. - Acting city manager.
By letter filed with the city clerk, the city manager shall designate, subject to approval of the city council, a qualified city administrative officer to exercise the powers and perform the duties of city manager during the city manager's temporary absence or physical or mental disability. During such absence or disability, the city council may revoke such designation at any time and appoint another officer of the city to serve until the city manager shall return or the city manager's disability shall cease.
Sec. 2-194. - Powers and duties of the city manager.
Generally. The city manager shall be the chief executive and administrative officer of the city. The city manager shall be responsible to the city council for the administration of all city affairs placed in the city manager's charge. As the chief executive and administrative officer, the city manager shall:
(1)
Appoint and, when the city manager deems it necessary for the good of the city, suspend or remove all city employees and administrative officers the city manager appoints, except as otherwise provided by law or personnel ordinances adopted pursuant to the city charter. The city manager may authorize any administrative officer who is subject to the city manager's direction and supervision to exercise these powers with respect to subordinates in that officer's department, office, or agency;
(2)
Direct and supervise the administration of all departments, offices, and agencies of the city, except as otherwise provided by the city charter or by law;
(3)
Attend all city council meetings, except for closed meetings held for the purposes of deliberating on the appointment, discipline, or removal of the city manager, and have the right to take part in discussion, but the city manager may not vote;
(4)
See that all laws, provisions of the city charter, and acts of the city council, subject to enforcement by the city manager or by officers subject to the city manager's direction and supervision, are faithfully executed;
(5)
Prepare and submit the annual operating budget and capital budget to the city council;
(6)
Submit to the city council and make available to the public a complete report on the finances and administrative activities of the city as of the end of each fiscal year;
(7)
Make such other reports as the city council may require concerning the operations of city departments, offices, and agencies subject to the city manager's direction and supervision;
(8)
Keep the city council fully advised as to the financial condition and future needs of the city, and make such recommendations to the city council concerning the affairs of the city as the city manager deems desirable;
(9)
Perform other such duties as are specified in the city charter or as may be required by the city council;
(10)
In the event of emergency, in consultation with the mayor, declare that a state of emergency exists within the city and implement emergency response in the manner authorized by the city council and by state law;
(11)
Settlement of claims against the city. In addition, the city manager, in consultation with the city attorney, shall have authority to settle lawsuits and other claims against the city for any sum up to and including $15,000.00; and
(12)
Authorization to act promptly in settling regulatory violations covered by city ordinance or against the city, including negotiating settlements. The mayor and city council will be notified in writing by the city manager of such settlement within 15 days.
Sec. 2-195. - Council's interference with administration.
Except for the purpose of inquiries and investigations permitted by law, the city council or its members shall deal with city officers and employees who are subject to the direction and supervision of the city manager solely through the city manager, and neither the city council nor its members shall give orders to any such officer or employee, either publicly or privately.
Secs. 2-196—2-213. - Reserved.
