ARTICLE III. - LICENSING[3]
Footnotes:
--- (3) ---
State Law reference— Powers of local authorities as to granting, refusal, suspension or revocation of licenses generally, O.C.G.A. § 3-3-2; allowing or permitting of breaking of packages or drinking of contents thereof on premises prohibited, exception for sales pursuant to a license for consumption on the premises, O.C.G.A. § 3-3-26.

DIVISION 1. - GENERALLY

Sec. 4-80. - License declared privilege.
Notwithstanding anything in this article to the contrary, the distribution, sale, handling, and other dealing in or possession of alcoholic beverages in the city is a privilege and not a right, and the issuance of a license under this chapter shall not create any property rights in the license holder. Furthermore, such privilege shall not be exercised in the city, except as licensed under the terms of this chapter.
(Code 2011, § 4-80)
Sec. 4-81. - License required.
No malt beverage, wine, distilled spirits or any other alcoholic beverage shall be sold or manufactured in the city, except under a license issued under this chapter by the city clerk.
(Code 2011, § 4-81)
Sec. 4-82. - Compliance with applicable law required.
The requirements of this chapter shall be in addition to any other requirements for business licenses under this Code and if other provisions of this Code conflict with this chapter, then this chapter shall control. In addition, all licensees shall at all times comply with federal and state laws, municipal ordinances and the rules and regulations of the state revenue commissioner, including licensing qualifications.
(Code 2011, § 4-82)
Sec. 4-83. - Classification of licenses.
Licenses that may be issued under this chapter include:
EXPAND
License Classification Designation
Retail package sales
Malt beverages Class A-1
Wine Class A-2
Consumption on the premises
Malt beverages Class B-1
Wine Class B-2
Liquor by the drink on-premises
Wholesale
Malt beverages Class W-1
Wine Class W-2
  (Code 2011, § 4-83)
Sec. 4-84. - Separate license required for each business location.
A separate alcoholic beverage license shall be required for each retail place of business licensed under this chapter.
(Code 2011, § 4-84)
Sec. 4-85. - Payment of other taxes required for license issuance.
No license shall be issued under this chapter unless the applicant has fully paid all license fees and taxes due under this chapter as well as all other business taxes and ad valorem taxes, and any utility billings due to the city for the business location.
(Code 2011, § 4-85)
Sec. 4-86. - Qualifications for licensure.
No alcoholic beverage license shall be granted to any applicant unless that applicant meets the following qualifications, in addition to all other requirements of this chapter:
(1)
All applicants must be at least 21 years of age at the time of filing an application for license under this chapter.
(2)
All applicants for retail licenses must provide with the application for license proof of financial responsibility. The city clerk may require all applicants to provide financial statements and other evidence of financial responsibility in conjunction with any application.
(3)
The applicant must be a citizen of the United States or a resident alien, and a resident of the county for a period of one year preceding the date of filing the application, except as otherwise specifically provided in this section; provided, however, that county residency requirements may, at the discretion of the city clerk, be waived if the applicant designates a resident of the city or county who shall be responsible for any matter relating to the license.
(4)
No applicant who has a criminal record (except minor traffic offenses) shall be granted a license. The plea of nolo contendere and the forfeiture of bond or collateral shall be considered a conviction for the purposes of this subsection. Additionally, no applicant who has been convicted of violating any ordinance of the city or any law or regulation of the state or any political subdivision thereof, governing the sale of any alcoholic beverage, shall be granted a license.
(5)
No license shall be issued to an applicant who has previously had revoked, within five years next preceding his application, any license issued to him by any city or county in this or any other state to sell alcoholic beverages of any kind.
(Code 2011, § 4-86; Ord. No. 80-1, § 1-009, 2-14-1980)
Sec. 4-87. - Moral character of applicant and employees.
(a)
All applicants for alcoholic beverage licenses must be of good character, and all managers, clerks or other employees shall be of like character, or the application will not be considered.
(b)
Ascertainable standards of good moral character of the applicant that may be considered by the city clerk in deciding if a license will be issued include, but are not limited to, the following:
(1)
Present and prior compliance with city ordinances.
(2)
Prior supervision over employees and customers.
(3)
Truthfulness in submitted application.
(4)
Criminal and civil court records.
(5)
Employment history.
(Code 2011, § 4-87)
Sec. 4-88. - Active involvement in business required.
(a)
Applicants for license and licensees under this chapter shall be either the owner of the premises for which the license is held or the owner of a lease thereon, and a copy of any applicable premises lease shall be provided with the license application. If the applicant is a franchisee, then such applicant shall attach a copy of the franchise agreement or contract with the application.
(b)
The applicant for a license under this chapter must be active in and solely responsible for the management and operation of the business for which the license is granted.
(Code 2011, § 4-88)
Sec. 4-89. - Partnership applicants.
If the applicant is a partnership, all members of the partnership must be qualified to obtain a license, one member of the partnership must be a resident of the county, and all members of the partnership must make sworn statements of those qualifications.
(Code 2011, § 4-89)
Sec. 4-90. - Corporate applicants.
A license may be granted to a corporation existing under the law of the state or to a foreign corporation authorized to do business in the state; provided, however, that any such corporation shall be required to designate a resident of the county as its local agent responsible for compliance with all the requirements of this chapter and authorized to accept all services of notice.
(Code 2011, § 4-90)
Secs. 4-91—4-108. - Reserved.
DIVISION 2. - APPLICATION PROCEDURE

Sec. 4-109. - Application contents.
All applications for licenses, both originals or renewals, must be accompanied by a full and complete statement under oath, of information relative to any and all interest in establishments that sell at wholesale or retail malt beverages or wine, for consumption on or consumption off (package) the premises. This shall include:
(1)
The names and addresses of all persons interested in the ownership of the business applying for a license to sell malt beverages, together with an interest each person or any member of his immediate family has in any other business licensed to sell malt beverages or wine;
(2)
The ownership of the land and building where the business is to be operated; also, the location of the building;
(3)
The amount of rental paid for the land and building and the manner in which the rent is determined and to whom and at what intervals it is paid;
(4)
The names and addresses (by affidavit from the owner, lessor, or sub-lessor of the land and building) of all persons having any whole, partial, beneficial, or other interest in and to the land and building on and in which the licensed establishment is located;
(5)
A set of fingerprints of all persons with any interest in the ownership of the business, which, in the case of a corporation, shall be deemed to mean a set of fingerprints for the corporate officers and manager of the proposed business. These fingerprints must be processed through and found negative by the Georgia Crime Information Center (GCIC) and the National Crime Information Center (NCIC);
(6)
Photographs of all persons with any interest in the ownership of the business, which, in the case of a corporation, this shall be deemed to mean photographs of all corporate officers and the manager of the proposed business location; and
(7)
A certified check on a bank in the state, or cash, in the amount of the fixed license fee.
(Code 2011, § 4-109; Ord. No. 80-1, § 1-010, 2-14-1980)
Sec. 4-110. - Fees.
All fees associated with licensure under this chapter shall be in the amount established by the city council.
(Code 2011, § 4-110)
Sec. 4-111. - Notice of change in declared status.
Any change in any relationship declared in the license application must be filed with the city clerk when the change is made, and failure to so file within a period of 30 days after the change is made shall be grounds for license cancellation or revocation.
(Code 2011, § 4-111; Ord. No. 80-1, § 1-010, 2-14-1980)
Sec. 4-112. - Investigation of applications.
(a)
An applicant, by filing for a license to sell malt beverages or wine, agrees to furnish the data, information, and records as called for herein and also agrees to submit under oath to interrogation by the city clerk, city attorney, city manager, and city council, or any of them, as to any facts considered pertinent to the application. The applicant, by filing the application, also agrees to produce for oral interrogation by the city clerk, city attorney, city manager, and city council, or any of them, any person requested by the city clerk, city attorney, city manager, and city council, or any of them, as being important in the ascertainment of the facts relative to the granting of a license. Failure to furnish this data, information and records, or failure to produce these persons within 30 days from the date of the request by the city, shall automatically serve to dismiss with prejudice the application of the applicant failing to furnish the data, information and records or failing to produce these persons.
(b)
All applications for new licenses for sale of malt beverages or wine for consumption on the premises and applications for renewals thereof, shall be investigated by the city clerk, and no new or renewal license shall be acted upon by the city clerk or issued by the city clerk until the city clerk has indicated in writing that, in his opinion, no violation exists upon the facts as stated and ascertained by the aforesaid investigation as to any state or city law in effect as of the date of the rendering of the opinion.
(c)
All applicants for new licenses or for transfers of locations shall be passed upon by the city clerk and his action shall be taken within 30 days from the date of the filing of the application or notice of location transfer, unless written notice of extension by the city clerk is given one week prior to the 30-day deadline.
(d)
Any change in any relationship declared in the application for license or license renewal requires investigation by the city clerk prior to the issuance of a renewal license and shall be passed upon by the city clerk within 30 days from the date of the filing of these changes.
(e)
The city clerk is specifically authorized and charged with the duty to issue a license under this chapter to each and every person who meets all the qualifications for the issuance of said license. The city council shall not review applications for sale of beer for consumption on the premises or renewal thereof; this duty has been specifically delegated to the city clerk.
(Code 2011, § 4-112; Ord. No. 80-1, § 1-011, 2-14-1980)
Sec. 4-113. - Property survey.
All applications shall include a certificate of the proposed business building and the straight line distance from the proposed business building and property line of the nearest school and nearest residential building, showing compliance with the appropriate provisions and sections of this article.
(Code 2011, § 4-113; Ord. No. 80-1, § 1-012, 2-14-1980)
Secs. 4-114—4-139. - Reserved.
DIVISION 3. - RENEWAL AND TRANSFER

Sec. 4-140. - Term of license.
No license under this chapter shall be issued other than from September 1 of one year until August 31 of the next year, and in case of the revocation or surrender of the license before expiration of the above term, the holder shall not be entitled to receive any refund of any fees or taxes whatsoever.
(Code 2011, § 4-140; Ord. No. 80-1, § 1-013, 2-14-1980)
Sec. 4-141. - Lapse of license; application for extension.
All businesses issued licenses under this chapter must, within 90 days after the issuance of a city license, open for business. Failure to open for business shall constitute forfeiture and cancellation of the issued licenses and no refund of license fees or business taxes shall be made. Any applicant unable to comply with the time limit of this section may make written request to the city clerk for an extension of time not to exceed 90 days, and the city clerk may, at his discretion, grant or deny the request.
(Code 2011, § 4-141)
Sec. 4-142. - Renewal permitted; conditions.
All alcoholic beverage licenses in this article may be renewed by payment of the fees set forth in the city fee schedule, provided that:
(1)
Applications for renewal of existing licenses are made in person by the applicants at the office of the city clerk between December 1 and December 15 of each year for the succeeding year, and the prescribed license fees are paid at time of filing.
(2)
The licensee and location remain the same.
(3)
The licensee's circumstances would enable him to qualify for a license if the renewal was a new application.
(4)
The licensee is still in compliance with the requirements of state and municipal laws and regulations pertaining to the original issuance of the license and pertaining to the operation of the business under the license at the time of application for renewal.
(5)
The city has received no complaints regarding the licensee's operation of the licensed premises.
(Code 2011, § 4-142)
Sec. 4-143. - Effect of complaint on license renewal; complaint procedure.
If a complaint is received as to the licensee's alleged violation of state or municipal law or regulation before December 31 of the licensed year or 30 days after the application for renewal is received, whichever date is later, the license shall not be renewed but shall be referred to the city council for decision as to whether renewal shall be granted as follows:
(1)
The city council shall conduct a hearing after giving the licensee reasonable notice of the time and place of such hearing, as well as the purpose thereof.
(2)
The licensee may remain open for business until a decision by the city council is made and shall have a period of three days following that decision in which to pay the required fees, if the decision of the city council is to permit renewal of the license.
(Code 2011, § 4-143)
Sec. 4-144. - Transferability of license.
(a)
Licenses shall not be transferable, except as otherwise provided herein. In the case of the death of any person holding a license or any interest therein, the same may, in the discretion of the city clerk, be transferred to the administrator, executor, or the lawful heir of the decedent. The executor, administrator, or lawful heir, shall have a 30-day grace period to apply for a license transfer.
(b)
Nothing in this section, however, shall prohibit one or more partners in a partnership holding a license to withdraw from the partnership in favor of one or more partners who were partners at the time of the issuance of the license.
(c)
Should a transfer of location be approved, there shall be no pro rata return of any license fee or business tax, and the new location shall be considered as a new license hereunder.
(d)
All applications for transfer of locations shall comply with the provisions herein set forth governing new licenses.
(Code 2011, § 4-144; Ord. No. 80-1, § 1-014, 2-14-1980)
Secs. 4-145—4-171. - Reserved.
DIVISION 4. - REVOCATION AND SUSPENSION

Sec. 4-172. - Investigations incident to disciplinary action.
The city council shall have the right to make such inquiry or investigation as it may find to be reasonably necessary to determine the licensee's compliance or noncompliance with this chapter. Such investigation may consist, among other actions, of calling licensees for examination under oath, obtaining evidence under oath from other persons, the procurement of documents and records including records of the licensee, and inspection and examination of records and documents from whatever source obtainable.
(Code 2011, § 4-172)
Sec. 4-173. - Effect of license denial by state.
In the event the applicant is denied a license by the state, upon the proof of that refusal, he shall be entitled to a refund of the license fee or business tax less the investigative fee as required, and less an additional charge in the amount established by the city council to cover the clerical costs of granting the license. This refund may be made by the city clerk without the necessity of any action by the city council.
(Code 2011, § 4-173; Ord. No. 80-1, § 1-015, 2-14-1980)
Sec. 4-174. - Procedure for suspension or revocation.
(a)
Whenever the state shall revoke any permit or license, the city license to deal in that product shall immediately thereupon be automatically revoked without any action by the city clerk, city manager, city council, or any municipal officer.
(b)
Whenever a holder of a license granted in this article by the city clerk shall fail to open for business the establishment referred to in the license and begin the sale of products authorized by the license within nine months from the date of issuance of the license, or whenever a holder of a license shall begin the operation of a business and sale of the products as authorized in the license but shall fail to operate the business for a period of nine consecutive months, the holder shall automatically forfeit his license which shall be cancelled or revoked without the necessity of any further action by the city clerk, city manager, city council, or any other municipal officer.
(c)
Except as provided for herein, no license which has been issued or which may hereafter be issued by the city to any person under this article shall be suspended or revoked except for due cause as hereinafter defined, and after a hearing, and upon prior five days' written notice to the holder of the license of the time, place, and purpose of the hearing, and a statement of the charge upon which the hearing shall be held. The licensee shall have an opportunity at this hearing to respond to and challenge such charges, to present witnesses under oath, to confront and cross-examine opposing witnesses under oath, and to have a verbatim written transcript made upon his own initiative and expense.
(d)
Due cause for the suspension or revocation of a license shall consist of the violation of any state or city law regulating the business, or violation of regulations made pursuant to authority granted for the purpose of regulating the business, or for the violation of any state or federal law, or for the violation of any provision of this Code, except traffic violations.
(e)
The hearing shall be conducted before the city council by either or both the mayor and city attorney.
(f)
In the event of revocation, no refund or any portion of the license fee or business tax shall be returned.
(Code 2011, § 4-174; Ord. No. 80-1, § 1-016, 2-14-1980)
Sec. 4-175. - Prevention of evasions; records; inspections.
(a)
Upon demand by the city clerk or the city council, it shall be the duty of any licensee to throw open to these city officials or their designees, during regular business hours, all portions of the place of business for the purpose of enabling these city officials to ascertain and gain any information as may be necessary for determining the percentage of gross receipts from the sale of prepared food and the percentage of gross receipts from the sale of malt beverages.
(b)
Upon demand by these city officials, it shall also be the duty of any licensee to furnish the city officials, during regular business hours at the licensee's place of business, all books of account, invoices, papers, reports, and memoranda containing entries showing amounts of purchases, sale receipts, inventory and other information, from which the correct percentage of gross receipts from the sale of prepared food as opposed to malt beverages may be ascertained, including exhibition of bank deposit books, bank statements, copies of sales tax receipts to the state, copies of state income tax reports, and federal income tax reports.
(c)
It shall be the duty of any licensee of the city to secure, preserve, and maintain and keep for a period of three years the records and documents enumerated and referred to in subsection (b) of this section.
(d)
It shall be unlawful for any licensee or for any servant, employee, or agent of the licensee to fail or refuse to perform any duty herein imposed upon the licensee or to obstruct or interfere with any city official in obtaining information necessary for determination of the aforesaid percentage of sales.
(e)
Except in the case of judicial proceedings or other proceedings necessary to collect the license fee or business tax provided in this Code, it shall be unlawful for any officer, employee, agent, or clerk of the city or any person to divulge or make known in any manner the information required to be submitted in the registration and application of a license, or otherwise submitted under the terms of this article and the rules and regulations promulgated in connection therewith. All information so submitted shall be confidential and open only to the officials, employees, agents, or clerks of the city using the information for the purpose of the administration of this article. Independent auditors or bookkeepers employed by the city shall be classified as employees.
(f)
Nothing herein contained shall prevent the disclosure of the license fee or business tax levied and assessed upon any person subject thereto, or the name, address, and type of business of the license holder. Nothing herein contained shall be construed to prohibit publication by the city officials of statistics so classified as to prevent the identification of particular reports or returns on the items thereof or the inspection of the records by duly qualified employees of the federal or state tax departments.
(Code 2011, § 4-175; Ord. No. 80-1, § 1-017, 2-14-1980)
Secs. 4-176—4-203. - Reserved.
DIVISION 5. - APPEALS

Sec. 4-204. - Appeal of decision of clerk.
The denial of issuance or renewal of any license under this chapter by the clerk may be appealed to the city council by filing notice with the clerk, who shall place the matter on the agenda for the council's next regular meeting following the clerk's receipt of the application for appeal. A clerk's suspension or revocation of a license issued hereunder may be appealed to the city council in the same manner.
(Code 2011, § 4-204)
Sec. 4-205. - Appeal of decision of council.
Any person aggrieved by the decision of the city council on an appeal of the decision of the city clerk with regard to refusal to issue or renew a license or to suspension or revocation of a license issued under this chapter shall be appealed to a court of competent jurisdiction in the manner provided by state law.
(Code 2011, § 4-205)
Secs. 4-206—4-233. - Reserved.
DIVISION 6. - EMPLOYEES

Sec. 4-234. - Restrictions regarding age, criminal history and beverage service.
(a)
Unless otherwise permitted by state law, no licensee shall employ in any premises used for the sale of alcoholic beverages, any person under the age of 18 years or any person who has been convicted in this or any state or by the United States or any other country of soliciting for prostitution, keeping a disorderly place, illegally dealing in narcotics, sex offenses, or any charge relating to the unlawful manufacture or sale of intoxicating liquors, or any other crime involving moral turpitude, within ten years immediately prior to the date of employment, and employment of such a person subjects the licensee to suspension or revocation of the license by the city council.
(b)
Minors under 18 years old may be employed in or about places of business where malt beverages and wine are sold, provided the minor shall not be allowed or required to dispense, sell, deliver off-premises or take orders for malt beverages or wine, or any other alcoholic beverage, or in any manner aid or assist in the dispensing, sale, delivery off-premises or taking orders for such beverages, as per state law.
(c)
Malt beverages and wine by the drink shall be served only by employees of the establishment.
(Code 2011, § 4-234; Ord. No. 80-1, § 1-019, 2-14-1980)
Sec. 4-235. - Other types of liquor prohibited.
It shall be unlawful for any person operating places licensed for the sale of malt beverages or wine to store or have therein any other alcoholic beverages for which he holds no license.
(Code 2011, § 4-235; Ord. No. 80-1, § 1-022, 2-14-1980)
Sec. 4-236. - Copy of these provisions to be maintained on licensed premises.
It shall be the duty of the licensee hereunder to maintain a copy of this chapter on the premises and to instruct each and every employee of the terms thereof.
(Code 2011, § 4-236; Ord. No. 80-1, § 1-026, 2-14-1980)
Secs. 4-237—4-252. - Reserved.
