Chapter 16 - COURT[1]

Footnotes:
--- (1) ---
State Law reference— Municipal courts, O.C.G.A. § 36-32-1 et seq.; establishment of municipal courts authorized and jurisdiction thereof, Ga. Const. art. VI, § I, ¶ I.

Sec. 16-1. - Appointment and term of judge.
The judge of the municipal court shall be appointed by the mayor and council and shall serve at their pleasure.
(Code 1996, § 30-1)
Sec. 16-2. - Docket.
It shall be the duty of the court clerk to keep a docket showing the disposition of all cases brought before the municipal court.
(Code 1996, § 30-2)
Sec. 16-3. - Service of summonses.
Summonses directed to any offender shall be served personally by some member of the police force.
(Code 1996, § 30-3)
Sec. 16-4. - Holding defendant when court lacks jurisdiction.
If, after an investigation of any case, it should appear that the municipal court has no jurisdiction to determine it, the judge or the mayor shall require the defendant to enter into bond conditioned to appear before the next term of the court having jurisdiction, to answer such offense, which bond shall be turned over to the proper officer of such court. In default of such bond, the judge or the mayor shall have power to commit the defendant to jail to answer the offense at the next term of court having jurisdiction thereof.
(Code 1996, § 30-4)
Sec. 16-5. - Procedure for service of process on corporations.
(a)
In addition to any other means provided by law, corporations may be served in accordance with the provisions of this section.
(b)
Whenever any charge shall be brought against a corporation doing business in the city for violation of this Code or other ordinance of the city, the city clerk shall issue an original and copy notice to the defendant corporation of the charge against such corporation, specifying the time when such charge shall be heard by the municipal court, which copy notice shall be served by the chief of police, any police officer, or the sheriff of the county, at least ten days before the time fixed for trial in the municipal court, upon any officer of such corporation to be found in the city, or upon any agent of such corporation, or employee in charge of the business of such corporation in such city. The officer serving such copy notice shall make an entry of such service on the original notice, and return the notice to the municipal court of the city. Such service shall be service upon the corporation, and such case shall, upon the return of such notice as provided in this section, stand for trial before the municipal court at the time stated in such notice.
(Code 1996, § 30-5)
Sec. 16-6. - Failure to appear at trial; failure to plead; judge's entry of plea; conviction.
At the time fixed for trial in municipal court, if the defendant corporation fails to appear, or after appearing fails to plead, the municipal court judge or other official presiding over the municipal court of the city shall cause to be entered a plea of not guilty, and the trial shall proceed as though the defendant had appeared and pleaded. Upon the conviction of any corporation in any such trial, there shall be rendered a judgment against it for the fine imposed, upon which an execution shall issue signed by the municipal court judge and city clerk in favor of the city against the property of the defendant corporation.
(Code 1996, § 30-6)
