ARTICLE VI. - GENERAL PROVISIONS

Section 61. - Nonconforming lots, nonconforming uses of land, nonconforming structures, and nonconforming uses of structures and premises.
Within the zoning districts established by this resolution or amendments that may later be adopted, there may exist lots, structures, and uses of land and structures that were lawful before this resolution was adopted or amended, but which would be prohibited, regulated, or restricted under the terms of this resolution or future amendments.
It is the intent of this resolution to recognize that the elimination of existing buildings, structures, and uses that are not in conformity with the provisions of this resolution is as much a subject of health, safety and general welfare as is the prevention of the establishment of new uses that would violate the provisions of this resolution. It is also the intent of this resolution to administer the elimination of nonconforming uses, buildings and structures so as to avoid any unreasonable invasion of established private property rights.
Therefore, any structure or use of land existing at the time of the enactment or amendment of this resolution, and amendments thereto, but not in conformity with its use regulations by virtue of that enactment or amendment, may be continued subject to the following provisions:
61.1.
Incompatibility of nonconforming uses. Nonconforming uses are declared by this resolution to be incompatible with permitted uses in the districts in which such a use is located. A nonconforming use shall not be extended or enlarged after adoption of these regulations either by the attachment on a building or premises of additional signs, as defined in this resolution, or by the addition of other uses of a nature which would be prohibited generally in the district involved.
61.2.
Avoidance of undue hardship. Nothing in this resolution shall be deemed to require a change in the plans, construction, or designated use of any building on which actual construction was lawfully begun before the effective date of amendment or adoption of this resolution.
61.3.
Single nonconforming lots of record. A single lot of record which does not meet the requirements for area or width, or both, of this resolution may be used or sold to be used for the erection of those buildings and accessory structures necessary to carry out the allowed uses in that district, provided that:
61.31.
Yard requirements and maximum lot coverage requirements for the lot shall conform to the regulations for the zoning district in which the lot is located, or a variance from these requirements shall be obtained pursuant to section 114.2 of this resolution.
61.32.
Locational requirements governing accessory buildings and uses contained in section 93 of this resolution shall be met.
61.33.
Parking requirements as provided in section 62 of this resolution shall be met.
61.4.
Nonconforming lots of record in combination. If an undeveloped nonconforming lot of record adjoins and has continuous frontage with one or more other undeveloped lots under the same ownership at the time that the adoption or amendment of this resolution caused such lot to become nonconforming, then neither the owner of the nonconforming lot nor his successors in interest may take advantage of these provisions. A lot is undeveloped if it has no substantial structures upon it. This section shall not apply to a nonconforming lot if a majority of the lots on either side of the street or streets where such lot is located and within 500 feet of such lot are also nonconforming.
61.5.
Nonconforming uses of land. Where, on the effective date of adoption or amendment of this resolution, lawful uses of land exist which would not be permitted by the requirements imposed by this resolution, said uses may be continued so long as they remain otherwise lawful, provided:
61.51.
No such nonconforming use shall be enlarged or increased, nor extended to occupy a greater area of land than was occupied at the effective date of adoption or amendment of this resolution;
61.52.
No such nonconforming uses shall be moved in whole or in part to any portion of the lot or parcel other than that occupied by such uses at the effective date of adoption or amendment of this resolution;
61.53.
If any such nonconforming uses are discontinued for a period of more than 60 days, any subsequent use of such land shall conform to the requirements specified in this resolution for the district in which such land is located;
61.54.
No additional structures not conforming to the requirements of this resolution shall be erected in connection with such nonconforming use of land.
61.6.
Nonconforming structures. Where a lawful structure exists at the effective date of adoption or amendment of this resolution that could not be built under the requirements of this resolution by reason of restrictions on area, lot coverage, height, yards, location on the lot, bulk or other requirements concerning the structure, such structure may be maintained so long as it remains otherwise lawful, subject to the following provisions:
61.61.
No such nonconforming structure shall be enlarged or altered in a way that increases its nonconformity, but any structure or portion thereof may be altered to decrease its nonconformity. No such alterations or enlargement shall in itself be nonconforming.
61.62.
Should such nonconforming structure or nonconforming portion of structure be destroyed by any means to the extent of more than 50 percent of its current market value, it shall not be reconstructed except in conformance with the requirements of this resolution.
61.63.
Should such structure be voluntarily moved for any reason for any distance, it shall thereafter conform to the requirements of this resolution for the district in which it is located.
61.64.
This section shall not be construed to prohibit the replacement, addition to or improvement of a nonconforming manufactured or mobile home, provided that any replacement home meets all federal, state, and local requirements, or said addition or improvement shall cause the house to more closely resemble a site-built structure, thus decreasing the appearance of nonconformity. Any replacement of a nonconforming manufactured or mobile home must be completed within 60 days of the removal of the nonconforming manufactured or mobile home.
61.7.
Nonconforming uses of structures or structures and premises in combination. If a lawful use involving individual structures, or a structure and premises in combination, exists at the effective date of adoption or amendment of this resolution, and that use would not be allowed in the district under the terms of this resolution, the lawful use may be continued so long as it remains otherwise lawful, subject to the following provisions:
61.71.
No existing structure devoted to a use not permitted by this resolution in the district in which it is located shall be enlarged, extended, constructed, reconstructed, voluntarily moved or structurally altered except in changing the use of the structure to a use permitted in the district in which it is located;
61.72.
Any structure, or structure and land in combination, in or on which a nonconforming use is replaced with a conforming use may not later revert to a nonconforming use;
61.73.
Any nonconforming use may be extended throughout any part of a building which was manifestly arranged or designed for such use at the time such use became nonconforming, but no such use shall be extended to any land outside such building.
(Ord. No. 201203-2o, 3-20-2012)
Section 62. - Off-street automobile parking.
Off-street automobile storage or parking space shall be provided on every lot on which any permitted or conditional use is established in accordance with this resolution.
62.1.
General requirements. For the purpose of this resolution, the following general requirements are specified:
62.11.
The term "off-street parking space" shall mean a space at least nine feet wide and 20 feet in length, except that in parking areas containing ten or more parking spaces, no more than 20 percent of the parking spaces may be at least seven and one-half feet wide and 15 feet in length. These smaller spaces shall be prominently designated as reserved for small or compact cars. In addition, sufficient area for egress and ingress and maneuverability of vehicles must be provided.
62.12.
If an off-street parking space cannot be reasonably provided on the same lot on which the principal use is conducted, the board of appeals and adjustments may permit such space to be provided on other off-street property, provided such space lies within 600 feet of the property line of such principal use. Such vehicle parking space shall be associated with the permitted use and shall not thereafter be reduced or encroached upon in any manner.
62.13.
The required number of parking spaces for any number of separate uses may be combined in one lot, but the required space for one use may not be assigned to another use at the same time, except that a portion of the parking space required for an existing church whose peak attendance will be at night or on Sundays may be assigned to a use which will be closed at nights or on Sundays.
62.14.
Area reserved for off-street parking in accordance with the requirements of this resolution shall not be reduced in area or changed to any other use unless the permitted use which it serves is discontinued or modified, except where equivalent parking space is provided and approved by the board of appeals and adjustments.
62.15.
Off-street parking existing at the effective date of this resolution in connection with the operation of an existing building or use shall not be reduced to an amount less than hereinafter required for a similar new building or use.
62.2.
Parking space requirements for all districts. Off-street automobile storage or parking space shall be provided with vehicular access to a street or alley, and shall be equal to at least the minimum requirements for the specific land use set forth.
EXPAND
Land Use Parking Requirements
TABLE 1
Dwellings
1) Single-, two-, and multifamily dwellings (including manufactured homes on individual lots) Two spaces for each dwelling unit, except for efficiency units, which require one space for each dwelling unit and one-bedroom units, which require one and one-half spaces for each dwelling unit.
2) Hotels, motels, tourist courts and homes, and campgrounds One space for each room, guest bedroom, or recreational vehicle or tent space, plus one space for each five nonresident employees, plus one space for a resident manager or owner, plus additional space as required herein for accessory restaurants or other facilities.
3) Manufactured (mobile) home parks Two spaces for each manufactured home space to be rented out, plus two spaces for the residence of a manager or owner.
4) Boarding houses and dormitories One space for each bedroom.
TABLE 2
Public Assembly
1) Churches and other places of worship One space for each four seats in the main auditorium or sanctuary.
2) Private clubs, lodges, and fraternal buildings not providing overnight accommodations One space for each 300 square feet of gross floor area.
3) Theaters, auditoriums, coliseums, stadiums and similar places of assembly One space for each four seats.
4) Libraries, museums One space for each 500 square feet of gross floor area.
5) Schools, including kindergartens, playschools and day care centers One space for each four seats in assembly halls, or one space for each employee, including teachers and administrators, whichever is greater, plus five spaces per classroom for high schools and colleges.
6) Skating rinks, dance halls, exhibition halls, pool rooms and other places of amusement or assembly without fixed seating arrangements One space for each 200 square feet of floor area.
7) Bowling alleys Four spaces for each alley.
8) Athletic fields, golf courses, tennis courts, swimming pools and similar recreational facilities and accessory uses One space for each 200 square feet of gross floor area within enclosed buildings, plus one space for every three persons that the outdoor facilities are designated to accommodate when used to the maximum capacity.
TABLE 3
Health Facilities and Institutions
1) Hospitals, clinics, and other similar medical (including mental health) treatment facilities in excess of 10,000 square feet of floor area Two spaces for each bed or one space for each 150 square feet of gross floor area, whichever is greater.
2) Nursing homes, homes for the aged, and similar institutional uses Three spaces for every five beds.
3) Penal and correctional facilities and institutions in which mentally ill persons are confined One space for every two employees on maximum shift.
4) Kennels and animal hospitals A parking area equal to 30 percent of the total enclosed or covered area.
5) Medical, dental, and health offices and clinics with less than 10,000 square feet of floor area One space for each 200 square feet of floor area.
6) Mortuaries and funeral homes Five spaces for each parlor or chapel unit or one space for every four seats, whichever is greater.
TABLE 4
Businesses
1) Automobile repair establishments not including automobile service stations One space for each regular employee plus one space for each 250 feet of gross floor area.
2) Food stores and convenience stores One space for each 100 square feet of floor area designated for retail sales only.
3) Restaurants, bars, grills, diners, cafes, taverns, nightclubs, lunch counters and all similar dining and/or drinking establishments One space for each four seats provided for patron use plus one space for each 75 square feet of floor space provided for patron use but not containing seats.
4) Office buildings, including banks, business, commercial, governmental and professional offices and buildings, but excluding medical and dental health offices and clinics One space for each 300 square feet of ground floor area, plus one space for each 500 square feet of upper floor space, plus one space for each company vehicle operating from the premises.
5) General business, commercial, or personal service establishments catering to the retail trade but excluding food stores One space for each 200 square feet of floor area designated for retail sales only.
6) Shopping centers Five and one-half spaces for each 1,000 square feet of gross floor area.
7) Furniture stores One space for each 1,000 square feet of gross floor area.
8) Public utilities, such as telephone exchanges and substations, radio and TV stations, and electric power and gas substations Parking area equal to 25 percent of gross floor area.
9) Automobile service stations Two spaces plus one additional space for each lubrication, service, or wash bay.
TABLE 5
Industries
1) Commercial, manufacturing and industrial establishments not catering to the retail trade One space for each three employees on the maximum working shift, plus one space for each company vehicle operating from the premises.
2) Wholesale establishments One space for every 50 square feet of customer service area, plus two spaces for each three employees on the maximum work shift, plus one space for each company vehicle operating from the premises.
  62.3.
Site requirements. All off-street parking, except that for one- and two-family dwellings, shall be laid out, constructed, and maintained in accordance with the following requirements:
62.31.
All such parking areas shall be hard surfaces with concrete or plant bituminous material and shall be maintained in a dustproof condition, and a good stand of grass or other common landscaping material shall be maintained on the remainder of the lot.
62.32.
Lighting facilities shall be so arranged that light is reflected away from adjacent properties.
62.33.
The parking lot shall be adequately drained.
62.34.
Along those lot lines of the parking area which abut residential districts, a dense planting of trees and shrubs shall be established on a strip of land not less than eight feet in width adjacent to the districts and provided that such planting be not less than six feet in height and a substantial bumper rail of wood, metal or concrete shall be installed on the inside of the planting strip.
62.35.
A raised curb of at least six inches shall be erected along all of the property lines, except for driveway openings, and those lot lines abutting residential districts where the requirements in section 62.34 shall prevail.
62.36.
No sign, whether permanent or temporary, shall be placed within the public right-of-way. Signs and planting strips shall be arranged so that they do not obstruct visibility for drivers or pedestrians.
62.37.
No off-street parking space or driveway shall be constructed so as to require the backing of vehicles into the right-of-way of a public street.
(Ord. No. 201203-2o, 3-20-2012)
Section 63. - Off-street loading and unloading space.
Off-street loading and unloading spaces shall be provided as hereinafter required by this resolution.
63.1.
Size of off-street loading spaces. Each off-street loading space shall have minimum dimensions of 14 feet in height, 12 feet in width, and 55 feet in length. However, upon sufficient demonstration that a particular loading space will be used exclusively by shorter trucks, the board of appeals and adjustments may reduce the minimum length accordingly to as little as 35 feet.
63.2.
Connection to street or alley. Each required off-street loading space shall have direct access to a street or alley or have a driveway which offers satisfactory ingress and egress for trucks.
63.3.
Required loading space. There shall be provided for each hospital, institution, commercial, or industrial building or similar use requiring the receipt or distribution of materials or merchandise at least one off-street loading space for each 10,000 square feet of gross floor area or fraction thereof. Establishments with less than 10,000 square feet of gross floor area may share one or more off-street loading spaces with adjacent establishments, provided that the ratio of loading spaces to gross floor area in such adjacent establishments fulfills the requirements for a single establishment contained herein. Such space shall be so located as to not hinder the movement of pedestrians and vehicles over sidewalk, street, and alley.
63.4.
Bus and trucking terminals. There shall be provided sufficient space to accommodate the maximum number of buses or trucks to be stored or to be loaded at the terminal at any one time.
63.5.
Location of off-street loading spaces. All required off-street loading spaces shall be located on the same lot as the building which they are intended to serve, or on an adjacent lot when shared with the use occupying said adjacent lot.
63.6.
Permanent reservation. Area reserved for off-street loading in accordance with the requirements of this resolution shall not be reduced in area or changed to any other use unless the permitted use which is served is discontinued or modified, except where equivalent loading space is provided and approved by the board of zoning appeals.
(Ord. No. 201203-2o, 3-20-2012)
Section 64. - Control of curb cuts and vision clearance.
The requirements for controlling curb cuts and maintaining vision clearance shall be as follows:
64.1.
Curb cuts. No curb cut shall exceed 50 feet in length, nor shall curb cuts be closer than 20 feet to other curb cuts or closer than 20 feet to an intersection of two streets measured along the curb line.
64.2.
Vision clearance. In all use districts no fence, wall, shrubbery, sign, marquee or other obstruction to vision between the heights of two and one-half and ten feet from the street level shall be permitted within 20 feet of the intersection of the right-of-way lines of two streets or railroad lines, or of a street with a railroad line.
(Ord. No. 201203-2o, 3-20-2012)
Section 65. - Classification of streets.
All streets in the unincorporated area of Jones County are hereby divided into seven classes as shown on the official street map (major thoroughfare plan) adopted by the board of commissioners and on record in the office of the zoning enforcement officer.
65.1.
Freeways are those streets which are used primarily for fast or heavy through traffic, and which are divided with full control of access and with no crossings at grade.
65.2.
Expressways are those highways or streets which are used primarily for fast or heavy through traffic, and which are divided with full or partial control of access and generally with grade separation at intersections.
65.3.
Arterial streets and highways are those which are used primarily for fast or heavy through traffic.
65.4.
Collector streets are those which carry traffic from minor streets to the major systems of freeways, expressways, and arterial streets and highways.
65.5.
Minor or local residential streets, including cul-de-sacs, are those which are used primarily for access to the abutting properties.
65.6.
Minor or local commercial and industrial streets are those which are used primarily for access to the abutting commercial and industrial properties.
65.7.
Alleys are those which are used primarily for vehicular service access to the rear or side of properties otherwise abutting on a street.
65.8.
Marginal access streets or frontage roads are minor streets which are parallel and adjacent to freeways, expressways, or arterial streets and highways, and which provide access to abutting properties and protection from through traffic.
(Ord. No. 201203-2o, 3-20-2012)
Section 66. - Storage and parking of trailers and vehicles.
Commercial vehicles and trailers of all types, including travel, boat, camping, and hauling trailers, shall not be parked or stored on any lot occupied by a dwelling or on any lot in any residential district except in accordance with the following requirements:
66.1.
No more than one commercial vehicle per dwelling shall be permitted, and in no case shall a commercial vehicle used for hauling explosives, gasoline, liquefied petroleum products, or other hazardous materials, or of a size in excess of 10,000 pounds gross vehicle weight be permitted.
66.2.
Travel trailers, hauling trailers, or boat trailers shall be permitted if parked or stored behind the front yard building line.
66.3.
A recreational vehicle shall not be occupied either temporarily or permanently while it is parked or stored in any area except in a campground authorized under this resolution.
66.4.
A junked vehicle, as defined in this resolution, shall not be permitted to be located in any residential district. The cost of moving a junked vehicle shall be at the owner's expense.
(Ord. No. 201203-2o, 3-20-2012)
Section 67. - Screening and lighting.
67.1.
In any residential, commercial or industrial districts, any operation not conducted within a building, such as drive-in businesses, outdoor recreation, outdoor storage of materials, and outdoor servicing activities, and any public utility equipment, such as electrical or gas substations, not contained within a structure or building, shall be enclosed by a wall or fence of solid appearance or a tight evergreen hedge not less than six feet in height where necessary to conceal such areas or facilities from the remainder of that residential district or a residential district adjoining or facing across a street, in the rear, or on the side of the principal building or use.
67.2.
In any district where reference is made requiring adequate screening of a specified operation, such screening shall be a wall or fence of solid appearance or a tight evergreen hedge not less than six feet in height.
67.3.
Outdoor lighting of all types shall be directed so as to reflect away from all residential dwellings, and shall be so situated so as to not reflect directly into any public rights-of-way.
(Ord. No. 201203-2o, 3-20-2012)
Section 68. - Minimum distance between buildings.
The following minimum distance between buildings shall be required unless otherwise specified within this resolution:
68.1.
The minimum distance between main buildings located on the same lot or parcel shall be:
68.11.
Front-to-front arrangement .....40 feet
68.12.
Front-to-rear arrangement .....50 feet
68.13.
Rear-to-rear arrangement .....30 feet
68.14.
Side-to-side arrangement .....20 feet
68.15.
All other combinations .....20 feet
(Ord. No. 201203-2o, 3-20-2012)
