ARTICLE IX. - SPECIAL PROVISIONS

Section 91. - Manufactured (mobile) homes and manufactured home parks.
modified
The following regulations shall apply to all manufactured (mobile) homes and to all manufactured home parks within the unincorporated area of Jones County.
91.1.
Classification of manufactured homes. All manufactured homes are hereby placed into one of the following classifications:
91.11.
Type A manufactured homes are manufactured or mobile homes constructed to meet or exceed the construction standards promulgated by the U.S. Department of Housing and Urban Development that were in effect at the time of construction and satisfy each of the following additional criteria:
(1)
The home has a width at its narrowest point, when placed on site, of at least 18 feet.
(2)
The pitch of the home's roof has a minimum vertical rise of three feet for each 12 feet of horizontal run, and the roof is finished with a type of shingle or metal panel that is commonly used in standard residential construction.
(3)
The exterior siding consists of wood, hardboard, vinyl, or aluminum, which may be vinyl coated or painted, but in no case exceeding the reflectivity of gloss white paint, comparable in composition, appearance, and durability to the exterior siding commonly used in standard residential construction.
91.12.
Type B manufactured homes are manufactured or mobile homes constructed to meet or exceed the construction standards promulgated by the U.S. Department of Housing and Urban Development that were in effect at the time of construction, but that do not satisfy the criteria necessary to qualify the home as a Type A manufactured home.
91.13.
Type C manufactured homes are manufactured homes that do not meet the definitional criteria of a Type A or Type B manufactured home.
91.2.
General standards for manufactured home parks. When allowed as a permitted or conditional use, all manufactured home parks shall be subject to the following regulations:
91.21.
The minimum lot area per park shall be five acres, and the minimum lot width for the portion used for entrance and exit and any portion used for manufactured home spaces or stands shall be 50 feet. No occupancy shall be permitted before ten spaces or stands are completed and ready for occupancy. All manufactured or mobile homes within manufactured home parks shall be required to meet any other applicable local, state, or federal construction or use requirements, and no home not meeting these requirements shall be admitted into a manufactured home park.
91.22.
Each manufactured home space or stand shall meet the following requirements:
(1)
Minimum size shall be 6,000 square feet.
(2)
Minimum width of space shall be 50 feet.
(3)
Minimum front yard shall be 20 feet, minimum side yard shall be ten feet, and minimum rear yard shall be ten feet.
(4)
No manufactured home shall be located any closer than 20 feet to any roadway within the park, nor any closer than 35 feet to any property line.
(5)
No space shall be rented for residential use except for a period of 30 days or more.
91.23.
Convenience establishments of a commercial nature, including stores, laundry and dry cleaning pickup establishments, self-service laundries, and beauty and barber shops shall be permitted in manufactured home parks, provided that these establishments and associated parking areas meet the following requirements:
91.23.1.
Such uses shall not occupy more than ten percent of the area of the park.
91.23.2.
Such uses shall be subordinate to the residential use and character of the park.
91.23.3.
Such uses shall be located, designated, and intended to serve the frequent trade or service needs of persons residing in the park.
91.23.4.
Such uses shall present no visible evidence of their commercial character from any portion of any residential district outside the park.
91.24.
The following minimum standards shall apply to streets within all manufactured home parks:
(1)
Streets shall be provided on the site where necessary to furnish principal traffic-ways for convenient access to manufactured home spaces or stands and other important facilities on the property.
(2)
Streets located within manufactured home parks shall be classified as minor or major streets. Major streets are those which carry traffic from minor streets to the system of streets and highways outside the manufactured home park. Minor streets are those which are used primarily for access to manufactured home stands.
(3)
The street system shall be designed to recognize existing easements, utility lines, etc., which are to be preserved; and to permit connection to existing facilities where necessary for the proper functioning of the drainage and utility systems.
(4)
The street system should provide convenient circulation by means of minor streets and properly located major streets. Closed ends of dead-end streets should be provided with an adequate paved vehicular turning circle at least 80 feet in diameter.
(5)
Pavement should be of adequate width to accommodate the contemplated parking and traffic load in accordance with the type of street:
(a)
All entrance streets and other major streets with guest parking both sides: 36 feet minimum*
(b)
Major streets with no parking: 20 feet minimum*
(c)
Minor streets with parking on one side: 28 feet minimum*
(d)
Minor or cul-de-sac streets with no parking: 20 feet minimum*
(e)
One-way minor streets with no parking (generally acceptable only if less than 500 feet total length and serving less than 25 mobile home stands): 11 feet minimum*
* Reduced by two feet if adjacent sidewalk is provided.
(6)
Streets should be adapted to the topography and should have suitable alignment and gradient for traffic safety, satisfactory surface [water] and groundwater drainage, and proper functioning of sanitary and storm sewer systems.
(7)
Street intersections should generally be at right angles. Offsets at intersections and intersections of more than two streets at one point should be avoided.
(8)
The street improvements shall extend continuously from the existing improved street system to each manufactured home space or stand and other important facilities requiring vehicular access. Streets shall provide suitable access to the manufactured home space or stand and other important facilities on the property, adequate connections to existing or future streets at the boundaries of the property, and convenient circulation for vehicles.
(9)
Streets shall be graded for their full width to provide suitable finish grades for pavement and any sidewalks with adequate surface drainage and convenient access to the manufactured home stands and other important facilities on the property.
(10)
Pavements and surfacing other than cement concrete shall be protected at the edges by suitable means where necessary to prevent raveling of the wearing surface and shifting of the pavement base.
(11)
The subgrade shall be well drained, uniformly graded, and compacted.
(12)
Where a pavement base is necessary, it should be a minimum of four inches thick and composed of crushed stone, gravel, or other appropriate durable material compacted to the maximum practical density. The wearing surface should be triple surface treated or bituminous concrete with a minimum thickness of one and one-half inches, compacted to the maximum practical density.
(13)
Where Portland cement concrete is used, it should not be less than five inches thick on a prepared subgrade constructed in accordance with accepted practices, with expansion joints where driveways and walkways abut each other or curb.
(14)
All points of entrance to or exit from the park shall be located no closer than 200 feet from any intersection of two public streets or roads.
(15)
In the event that the streets of a manufactured home park are to be dedicated for public use, then said streets shall be developed in accordance with construction standards set forth in the requirements for the subdivision of land contained herein.
(16)
Parking shall be provided as required in section 62.2. At least one parking space for each manufactured home space or stand shall be located on the individual space or stand, while the other parking space shall be located on the space or stand not farther than 100 feet from the space or stand.
91.25.
Recreation and common area totaling not less than ten percent of the gross park area shall be developed and maintained by the management. The recreation or common area may include such facilities as community buildings, laundry facilities, and swimming pools.
91.26.
An application for any use, permit, or certificate for a manufactured home park shall be accompanied by a site plan approved by the Jones County Health Department.
91.3.
General standards for manufactured homes on individual lots. Manufactured homes on individual lots in zoning districts where allowed as a permitted or conditional use, shall meet the following additional requirements, except as otherwise provided herein:
91.31.
The manufactured home shall be oriented with its long axis parallel to the street on which the lot fronts. An exception may be granted on lots where the slope requires one or more foundation pier(s) to exceed 44 inches in height; in which case, the manufactured home shall be placed perpendicular to the street. If the home is located in excess of 300 feet from any public road right-of-way it may face in any direction. The preceding exceptions may be granted by the zoning enforcement officer after verification.
91.32.
The manufactured home shall be connected to water supply and sewage disposal systems in compliance with the regulations of the board of commissioners and the Jones County Health Department, and must meet any other applicable local, state, and federal requirements for the home and any external utility installations. An application for a manufactured home on an individual lot shall be accompanied by written approval from the Jones County Health Department certifying the suitability of the site for the installation of a sewage and waste management system.
91.33.
A manufactured home placed on an individual lot in any zoning district must be supported by a permanent foundation, as per Appendix H of the Standard Building Code, as adopted by the Jones County Board of Commissioners. The manufactured home must be enclosed under all exterior walls by continuous, permanent, masonry materials, or be enclosed by a skirting designed for such purpose, unpierced except for required ventilation and access.
91.34.
Where a manufactured home is placed on a permanent foundation, the tongue, axles, and transporting lights shall be removed after placement on the lot and before occupancy, except that on a single section manufactured home where the tongue is not designed to be removed, the removal of said tongue shall not be required. Where on any manufactured home on an individual lot the tongue, axles, transporting lights, or any other towing apparatus is designed to be removable upon placement on a site, such equipment or apparatus shall be removed after placement on the lot and before occupancy.
91.35.
A set of permanent steps, with no opening between steps or on the sides of the set of steps, shall be provided where necessary for access to and from each exterior door on the manufactured home.
91.4.
Temporary use of manufactured homes. A manufactured home may be used on a temporary basis in the following cases. All such units shall meet all other local, state, and federal requirements that may apply.
91.41.
(a)
A single manufactured home or similar mobile structure designed for other than residential purposes may be used in any district as a temporary office, security shelter, or shelter for materials or tools incidental to construction or development on the same lot.
(b)
A manufactured home designed for residential purposes to be used as a temporary residence during construction of a single-family dwelling on the same lot shall be considered as a conditional use. A temporary manufactured home designed and used for residential purposes shall be permitted only within the AG-1, R-R, R-2, R-3, or C-1 districts.
(c)
These uses require a zoning compliance permit and are permitted for a period not to exceed six months, unless the zoning enforcement officer finds that actual construction is continuing, and the use otherwise complies with the provisions of this resolution, in which case he shall renew the certificate for an additional six months.
91.42.
A single manufactured home or similar mobile home structure designed for nonresidential purposes may be used for nonresidential purposes by any agency of local, state or federal government in any zoning district.
(Ord. No. 201203-2o, 3-20-2012; Ord. of 9-1-2020 )
Section 92. - Single-family attached residences.
Within the districts permitting single-family attached residences, the following requirements shall apply:
92.1.
No more than ten or fewer than three continuous single-family attached units shall be built in a row with approximately the same front line.
92.2.
No side yard is required except that on corner and interior lots the end of the building in any grouping of single-family attached units shall conform to the side yard requirements of that district.
92.3.
Insofar as is practicable, off-street parking facilities shall be grouped in bias, either adjacent to streets or in the interior of blocks. Off-street parking spaces shall be no more than 100 feet, by the most direct pedestrian route, from a door of the dwelling unit it intends to serve.
92.4.
All single-family attached residential complexes shall be required to tie into the public water and sanitary sewer systems, where such systems are available.
92.5.
All other requirements within the district in which the single-family attached residences are located shall be met.
(Ord. No. 201203-2o, 3-20-2012)
Section 93. - Accessory and temporary buildings.
93.1.
Accessory buildings. The location of accessory buildings and uses in residential districts must meet the following requirements:
93.11.
Where an accessory building is attached to the main building, a substantial part of one wall of the accessory building shall be an integral part of the main building, and such accessory building shall be attached to the main building in a substantial manner by a roof, and therefore shall meet such requirements applicable to the main building.
93.12.
A detached accessory building shall not be closer than five feet to the lot line, provided that accessory buildings in yards on corner or double frontage lots that are adjacent to public rights-of-way shall meet the setback requirements of section 82.
93.13.
A detached accessory building shall not exceed two stories in height, and shall cover not more than 30 percent of the rear or side yard.
93.14.
No detached accessory building shall be located on the front yard of a lot.
93.2.
Temporary buildings. Temporary buildings used in conjunction with construction work only may be permitted in any district and shall be removed immediately upon completion of construction.
93.3
Prohibited accessory and temporary buildings or structures. Manufactured homes, mobile homes, freight trailers, box cars, trailers, office trailers, shipping containers, or any other structure or vehicle that was not originally fabricated for use as an accessory building shall be prohibited.
(Ord. No. 201203-2o, 3-20-2012; Ord. of 3-4-2014)
Section 94. - Additional dwellings on a single lot.
An application for an additional single-family dwelling or an additional manufactured home shall conform to the following provisions:
94.1.
Additional dwellings on a lot less than ten acres in size.
94.11.
This shall be considered a conditional use.
94.12.
The main dwelling is located in an AG-1, R-R, R-1, R-1A, R-2, R-3, R-MH or R-1-R district.
94.13.
Each additional dwelling shall conform to the development standards for the district in which it is located.
94.14.
The arrangement of such dwelling shall be in such a manner that, if the lot is ever subdivided, no substandard lots or nonconforming buildings are created. In order to prevent mandated subdividing, additional dwellings shall not be permitted on lots served by a private road.
94.15.
Garage apartments shall be permitted only when a main dwelling is already built on the building site, but said apartments shall adhere to the requirements of the use district in which they are located.
94.16.
No more than two units on a lot shall be permitted.
94.17.
An application for an additional dwelling shall be accompanied by written approval from the Jones County Health Department.
94.2.
Additional dwellings on a lot ten acres or greater.
94.21.
This shall be considered a permitted use.
94.22.
The main dwelling is located in an AG-1, R-R, R-1, R-1A, R-2, R-3, R-MH or R-1-R district.
94.23.
Each additional dwelling shall conform to the development standards for the district in which it is located, including adequate road frontage.
94.24.
The arrangement of such additional dwelling shall be in such manner that, if the lot is ever subdivided, no substandard lots or nonconforming buildings are created. In order to prevent mandated subdividing, additional dwellings shall not be permitted on lots served by a private road.
94.25.
An application for an additional dwelling shall be accompanied by written approval from the Jones County Health Department.
94.3.
Accessory dwelling unit (ADU). An ADU shall meet all of the following criteria:
94.31.
The unit may not exceed more than 50 percent of the floor area of the main home. The square footage of the ADU shall not be counted as part of the floor area of the main dwelling unit.
94.32.
An ADU may only be occupied by an immediate family member. For the purposes of this section, an immediate family member shall be defined as a grandmother, grandfather, mother, father, brother, sister, son, or daughter.
94.33.
The family member occupying the ADU must be unable to live alone due to a medical disability. A letter from a physician will be required at the time application is made to demonstrate the disability. No application will be accepted that does not include the physician's letter.
94.34.
The ADU will not be required to be separated from the main dwelling by fire rated construction.
94.35.
An ADU can be located within an existing home, such as in a basement or an attic space, built as a home addition, constructed as a detached cottage in the rear of the property, or can result from a garage conversion.
94.36.
An ADU may not be occupied after the unit is no longer used by the disabled family member.
94.37.
The owner of the ADU shall be responsible to notify a purchaser at the time of sale that the ADU may not be used for residential purposes by the new owner.
Table 11 reserved.
Table 12 reserved.
(Ord. No. 201203-2o, 3-20-2012)
Section 95. - Home occupations.
95.1.
Special requirements. Home occupations, where permitted, must meet the following special requirements:
95.11.
The applicant must be the owner of the property on which the home occupation is to be located, or must have written approval of the owner of the property if the applicant is a tenant.
95.12.
The home occupation shall be operated only by the members of the family residing on the premises, and no articles or service shall be sold or offered for sale except as may be produced by members of the immediate family residing on the premises.
95.13.
The home occupation shall be restricted to the main building only, and shall not occupy more than 25 percent of the floor area of said building.
95.14.
The home occupation shall not generate excessive traffic or produce obnoxious odors, glare, noise, vibration, electrical disturbance, or radioactivity, or other conditions detrimental to the character of the surrounding area.
95.15.
The building in which the home occupation is to be located must be an existing structure ready for occupancy and not a proposed structure.
95.16.
Any business sign placed on the premises shall not be larger than two square feet in sign area.
95.17.
Expiration. A permit for home occupations shall expire under the following conditions:
95.17.1.
Whenever the applicant ceases to occupy the premises for which the home occupation was issued. No subsequent occupant of such premises shall engage in any home occupation until he has been issued a new permit after proper application.
95.17.2.
Whenever the holder of such a permit fails to exercise the same for any period of six consecutive months.
95.2.
Cottage industries. A cottage industry may consist of any accessory business use, except junk or scrap yards, automobile repair shops or garages, or meat processing/packaging operations, that fully complies with all of the following standards for the applicable zoning district:
95.21.
The cottage industry must be owned by the owner of the property on which the cottage industry is to be located, or the business owner must have written approval of the owner of the property if the applicant is a tenant.
95.22.
In addition to the permanent residents of the dwelling unit, no more than two full-time equivalent employees may be employed by the business on the premises, and no article or service shall be sold or offered for sale, except as may be produced by the employees of the cottage industry.
95.23.
All business activities or transactions associated with the cottage industry shall be conducted entirely within the dwelling unit or in an accessory building on the same lot. Any accessory buildings used for cottage industries shall comply with the requirements in section 93. There must be an existing dwelling on site.
95.24.
The total floor space devoted to a cottage industry shall be no more than 50 percent of the primary dwelling unit gross floor area.
95.25.
The cottage industry shall not necessitate any change in the outside appearance and residential character of the dwelling unit and/or accessory building.
95.26.
The cottage industry shall not generate more than 25 average daily trips, according to The Institute of Traffic Engineer's Trip Generation Manual (Latest edition). Only one delivery per day by a vehicle in excess of 10,000 pounds will be permitted.
95.27.
At least three but no more than five off-street paved parking spaces shall be provided for the cottage industry.
95.28.
The cottage industry shall not involve the use of or result in the production of any hazardous materials.
95.29.
The cottage industry shall not conduct business activities between the hours of 6:00 p.m. and 6:00 a.m.
95.210.
The cottage industry shall not produce any noises or odors or light that may be discernable by the average person beyond the boundaries of the property.
95.211.
All equipment, material and products of the cottage industry, with the exception of one vehicle intended for business use, shall be stored inside the dwelling unit or in an accessory building on the lot. An area of up to 2,000 square feet may be used for outside storage of completed product if it is not visible from any adjoining or nearby property.
95.212.
The cottage industry shall not generate smoke, glare, vibrations, electrical disturbance, radioactivity, or other conditions that will be a nuisance to the surrounding area.
95.213.
The cottage industry and dwelling unit and/or accessory building shall comply with all applicable building and fire codes. At least one bathroom that complies with the Georgia Accessibility Code will be provided.
95.214.
Business signs for cottage industries shall be professionally painted and shall be limited to two square feet.
95.215.
Deer processing is permitted within the AG-1 district, subject to compliance with all state and federal regulations. A disposal pit is required. Any pit used for the disposal of animal waste shall be located at least 500 feet from any property line and 250 feet from any state waters.
95.3.
Expiration of permit. A permit for a cottage industry shall expire under the following conditions:
95.31.
Whenever the applicant ceases to occupy the premises for which the cottage industry was issued. No subsequent occupant of such premises shall engage in any cottage industry until a new permit has been issued for the proposed cottage industry.
95.32.
Whenever the holder of such a permit fails to exercise the same for any period of six consecutive months.
(Ord. No. 201203-2o, 3-20-2012)
Section 96. - Automobile service stations.
Within the districts permitting automobile service stations, the following requirements shall apply:
96.1.
Location. The property on which an automobile service station is located shall not be within 100 feet of any residential district or any property containing a school, public playground, church, hospital, public library, or institution for children or dependents.
96.2.
Site requirements. An automobile service station shall have a minimum frontage on the primary street of 120 feet and a minimum area of 12,000 square feet. All buildings shall be set back 40 feet from all street right-of-way lines, and all canopies shall be set back 15 feet from all street right-of-way lines.
96.3.
Access to site. Vehicular entrances or exits at an automobile service station shall meet the following requirements:
96.31.
There shall be no more than two curb cuts for the first 120 feet of street frontage or fraction thereof, plus no more than one additional curb cut for each additional 150 feet of street frontage or fraction thereof.
96.32.
Vehicular entrances or exits shall contain an access width along the curb line of the street of not more than 40 feet as measured parallel to the street at its narrowest point, and shall not be located closer than 20 feet to a street intersection or closer than ten feet to adjoining property.
96.33.
Curb cuts or driveways shall be no closer to each other than 20 feet at both the right-of-way line and the curb or edge of the pavement along a single street.
96.4.
Gasoline pump islands. All gasoline pump islands shall be set back at least 15 feet from the right-of-way line, or where a future widening line has been established, the setback line shall be measured from such line. Where pump islands are constructed perpendicular to the right-of-way line, this setback requirement shall be increased to 30 feet. All pumps shall be at least 60 feet from the centerline of an arterial street, 55 feet from the centerline of a collector street, and 45 feet from the centerline of a local street.
96.5.
Other site improvements. In addition to the above requirements, the following requirements for additional site improvements shall be adhered to:
96.51.
Raised curb of at least six inches in height shall be erected along the street property lines, except for driveway openings.
96.52.
A solid fence or wall six feet in height shall be erected along all adjacent property lines facing any adjacent residential lot.
96.53.
Exterior lighting shall be arranged so that it is deflected away from adjacent properties.
96.54.
All drives, parking storage, and service areas shall be paved and curbed and a good stand of grass or other living landscaping material shall be maintained on the remainder of the lot.
96.6.
Storage of inflammable products. Outside aboveground tanks for the storage of gasoline, liquefied petroleum gas, oil, or other inflammable liquids or gases shall be prohibited at any automobile service station in all zoning districts.
(Ord. No. 201203-2o, 3-20-2012)
Section 97. - Signs.
97.1.
Intent. The intent of this section is to protect the health, safety, and general welfare of the public by establishing standards for the design, size, number, location, illumination and maintenance of all signs and sign structures not located within a building. These regulations are also designed to maintain and enhance the aesthetic environment of the community, to improve pedestrian and vehicular safety, and to minimize the possible effect of signs on nearby public and private property. These regulations are not intended to, and do not restrict the content of sign messages.
97.2.
Supplemental definitions.
(1)
Banner, pennant, and streamer. Any lightweight fabric, or flexible material, suspended in a series from a rope, wire or string.
(2)
Billboard. Any sign larger than the maximum size allowed in a commercial district (C-1, C-2, C-3, M-1 and M-2) and no larger than 400 square feet. Maximum height of a billboard shall be 35 feet.
(3)
Construction sign. Any temporary sign located on premises under construction, alteration, or demolition.
(4)
Flag. Any fabric, banner, or bunting used to symbolize government, political subdivision, or other legalized entity.
(5)
Freestanding sign. Any sign that is supported by an independent structure placed on or anchored in the ground and not attached to any building or secondary structure.
(6)
Guest quarter sign. Any sign which is located on property containing a guest quarter.
(7)
Institutional sign. Any sign which is located on property containing a nonprofit corporation or establishment, church or other place of worship, educational facility, civic club or association, golf, swimming, tennis or similar club, recreation area, day care center, hospital, nursing home, hotel, or conditional use, and which is located on the same parcel as the activity identified.
(8)
Memorial sign or tablet. Any sign located on a tablet and mounted flush with the wall of a building.
(9)
Multifamily identification sign. Any sign which is located on property containing a multifamily development.
(10)
Political sign. Any temporary sign located on private property during the period from 60 days before to five days after any public election. For the purpose of this definition a political sign shall not be larger than 32 square feet.
(11)
Portable sign. Any sign, which because of its design or construction was originally intended to be transportable (moveable); including, but not limited to: signs designed to be transported by means of wheels, signs converted to A- or T-frames, menu and sandwich board signs, and signs attached to or painted on vehicles parked and visible from the public right-of-way, unless said vehicle is used in the normal day-to-day operations of the business.
(12)
Projection/canopy sign. Any sign affixed to a building, wall or canopy in such a manner that its leading edge is extended more than 24 inches beyond the surface of the building or wall.
(13)
Professional sign. Any sign which is attached flush to the wall of a building, or located in the front yard where a professional occupation is located.
(14)
Reader board. Any sign or portion thereof with characters, letters, or illustrations, that can be mechanically or electronically changed or rearranged without altering the face of the surface.
(15)
Real estate sign. A temporary sign located on property for sale, lease or rental.
(16)
Roof sign. Any sign erected and constructed wholly on and over the roof of a building supported by roof structure and extending vertically above the highest portion of the roof.
(17)
Shopping/business center identification sign. Any freestanding structure located on property containing a shopping center, which structure may contain up to ten separate signs with total sign area for all signs not exceeding 240 square feet.
(18)
Sign. Any identification, description, illustration, object, or device, illuminated or nonilluminated, which is visible from any public place, or is located on private property and exposed to the public, including any permanently installed or situated merchandise, or any emblem, painting, banner, pennant, placard or temporary sign designed to advertise, identify or convey information, with the exception of window displays and national flags.
(19)
Sign area. The smallest square, rectangle, triangle, circle, or combination thereof, encompassing the entire advertising area, excluding architectural trim and structural support.
(20)
Sign structure. Any structure which supports, has supports, has supported or is capable of supporting a sign, including decorative cover.
(21)
Subdivision identification sign. Any sign located on private property at the entrance to a residential subdivision.
(22)
Temporary identification subdivision sign. Any sign located on private property and at the entrance to a newly developed subdivision.
(23)
Temporary sign. Any sign that by its design and construction is intended to be used only temporarily and is not permanently mounted or anchored.
(24)
Wall sign. Any sign painted on, or erected within 24 inches and parallel to the exterior wall of any building or structure.
97.3.
General provisions. All signs except as provided in section 97.4, shall conform to the following standards:
(1)
All provisions and regulations governing signs shall bind any applicant for a sign permit.
(2)
No sign or sign structure shall be erected without a certificate of zoning compliance, as may be required by these regulations.
(3)
All signs shall be subject to the same side yard and height limitations imposed upon structures in the use district in which said signs are located.
(4)
For the purpose of computing sign area, only one side of a "V-type" or double-faced sign shall be considered.
(5)
Only signs authorized by Georgia Law shall be placed upon any street or highway right-of-way.
(6)
All signs shall be on property where a permit has been granted for a use of land or structure allowed in the district where said sign is to be located. For the purpose of this section, a sign shall not be considered a use of land or structure.
(7)
Height of all signs shall be measured from the tallest portion of the sign or sign structure, whichever is taller, to the centerline of the nearest road.
97.4.
Exempt signs. The following signs shall be exempted from permit requirements:
(1)
Any sign that is placed inside a window or upon the windowpanes or glass and is visible from the exterior of the window.
(2)
Any banner erected across public rights-of-way, provided that such sign is erected with approval from the city or county government.
(3)
Any political sign as defined herein.
(4)
Any sign or notice posted or erected by, or at the direction of the city, county or state government.
(5)
Any official flag, emblem, or insignia of the United States, the State of Georgia, or other country or state.
(6)
Real estate signs.
(a)
In AG-1, R-R, R-MH, R-1, R-1A, R-1-R, R-2, R-3, and PUD districts, there shall be no sign in excess of four square feet; no more than three such signs on any single lot; and no sign exceeding two and one-half feet in height.
(b)
In C-1, C-2, C-3, M-1 and M-2 districts, there shall be no sign in excess of 32 square feet; no more than one such sign on any single lot; no sign closer than 20 feet to any property line; and not exceeding eight feet in height.
(7)
Construction signs.
(a)
In AG-1, R-R, R-MH, R-1, R-1A, R-1-R, R-2, R-3, and PUD districts, there shall be no sign in excess of four square feet; no more than one such sign on any single lot; no sign closer than 20 feet to any property line; and not exceeding two and one-half feet in height.
(b)
In commercial districts, C-1, C-2, C-3, M-1, and M-2 districts, there shall be no sign in excess of 32 square feet; no more than one such sign on any single lot; and no sign closer than 20 feet to any property line; and not exceeding eight feet in height.
(8)
One temporary identification subdivision sign not to exceed 32 square feet of sign area; not illuminated, and maintained at subdivider's expense. Such signs shall be removed after 80 percent of the lots are conveyed. Failure to remove these signs will be a violation of this resolution.
(9)
One flag per lot, not to exceed 15 square feet in size when located at least 20 feet from the front property line.
97.5.
Prohibited signs. The following are not permitted in any zoning district:
(1)
Any sign which has visible movement, achieved by electrical, mechanical or nonmechanical means; and including repetitive flashing, or electrical pulsation. This provision excludes reader board signs, which change copy via an electrical process.
(2)
Any sign painted on or attached to natural features such as trees, rocks, utility poles and fence posts.
(3)
Any sign which by reason of its size, location, coloring or illumination impedes the vision of drivers, or obstructs or detracts from the visibility of any traffic sign or traffic-control device on public streets and roads.
(4)
Any sign which obstructs free ingress or egress from a building, door, window, fire escape, or other exit way required by any government agency or code regulating public safety.
(5)
Any sign that imitates traffic signs or implies the need or requirement of stopping or the existence of danger.
(6)
Any roof sign.
(7)
Banners, pennants and streamers; except as provided in section 97.4(2).
97.6.
Signs as permitted uses.
(1)
Residential districts. Within the AG-1, R-R, R-MH, R-1, R-1A, R-1-R, R-2, R-3, and PUD districts, the following signs are permitted:
(a)
One nonilluminated sign not exceeding two square feet per face, not exceeding two faces and not exceeding two and one-half feet in height is authorized per lot.
(b)
One institutional sign, not exceeding 64 square feet per face, nor exceeding 128 square feet for all faces combined and a maximum height of eight feet, shall be permitted per lot, except that double frontage lots may have two such signs, one on each road front.
(c)
For apartment buildings and other multifamily residences, one memorial sign not exceeding four square feet is authorized on each building. One multifamily identification sign not exceeding 64 square feet per face, nor exceeding 128 square feet for all faces combined, and having a maximum height of eight feet shall be permitted per entrance to the development.
(d)
One subdivision identification sign is authorized per entrance to a subdivision. These signs shall not exceed a maximum area of 64 square feet per face, and shall have a maximum height of eight feet. All signs erected will be contiguous with the development.
(e)
Memorial sign/tablet, not to exceed one sign per lot and no larger than two square feet in size.
(2)
Commercial districts (C-1, C-2, C-3, M-1, M-2). The following signs are permitted:
(a)
One permanent freestanding sign with a maximum permitted size equal to ten percent of the square footage of the largest side of the building. In no case may the sign exceed 150 square feet per face nor exceed 300 square feet for all faces combined. A maximum height of 25 feet shall be permitted. Double frontage lots may have two such signs, one per road front.
Each building may have either a projection/canopy sign, wall, or reader board sign which may not exceed five percent of the square footage of the side of the building on which the sign is mounted. In no case may the sign exceed a maximum size of 32 square feet in sign area.
(b)
Shopping/business center.
(i)
Each business establishment located within a shopping center may have either a canopy/projection, wall, or reader board sign. The sign may not exceed five percent of the square footage of the wall area of the tenant space. In no case may the sign exceed a maximum size of 32 square feet in sign area.
(ii)
A shopping/business center may erect one shopping center identification sign not to exceed 25 feet in height with a maximum permitted size equal to ten percent of the square footage of the side of the largest side of the building. In no case may the sign exceed 240 square feet per face nor exceed 480 square feet for all faces combined. Double frontage lots may have two such signs, one per road front.
(c)
In addition to any other requirements, freestanding, projection/canopy, wall, or reader board signs shall meet the requirements of sections 97.9 and 97.10.
97.7.
Signs as conditional uses.
(1)
Billboards.
(a)
A billboard shall be a conditional use in the commercial districts (C-1, C-2, C-3, M-1 and M-2).
(b)
A billboard shall not be located within 1,000 feet of another billboard on either side of the street, regardless of which direction the sign is viewed, as measured along the right-of-way from the nearest edge of the sign. Further, a billboard shall not be located within 500 feet of another billboard as measured by a radius around the billboard.
(c)
If a sign is within 200 feet of a residential district, it shall meet all of the following requirements:
(i)
Have a 100-foot setback from all residential districts.
(ii)
Be no larger than 400 square feet.
(d)
No billboard shall be located within 1,000 feet of the property line of public schools, cemeteries, public parks, playgrounds or recreation areas, public forests, or public buildings used primarily as places of public assembly.
(e)
No billboard shall be located within 1,000 feet of the property line of a historic zoning overlay district.
(f)
Distances, when required by these regulations, shall be established by a survey performed by a surveyor licensed in the State of Georgia. Said survey shall be provided at the time an application is made.
(g)
Double-stacked or side-by-side signs are prohibited.
(h)
Billboards may not have flashing, intermittent, or moving light, except those giving public service information such as time, date, temperature, weather or other similar information.
(i)
No billboard shall be located within 1,000 feet of any legally recognized site or monument.
(2)
Multiple signs on a single lot.
(a)
A single sign, in addition to those authorized in section 97.6, shall be considered a conditional use.
(b)
The sign must meet all applicable standards for the permitted sign on the lot.
(3)
Guidelines for review of a conditional use for a sign.
(a)
In addition to the standards contained in section 116.4, the following criteria shall guide in reviewing a conditional use request for a sign:
(i)
Whether the size of the site and the size of the sign are suitable, considering the relationship of the proposed sign to adjacent parcels of land and development patterns in the area;
(ii)
The impact the proposed sign may have on the view of significant features of the landscape as seen by motorists and adjacent property owners, the proposed location and setback of the sign on the site, and its aesthetic impact on surrounding properties;
(iii)
The effect the proposed sign will have on traffic and highway safety;
(iv)
Any accompanying or unique feature of the proposed sign, including plans for illumination and landscaping;
(v)
Access provisions to the site. Will it adequately allow for modifications and maintenance of the sign without impacting surrounding property owners; and
(vi)
Any other factor that is related to the suitability of the proposed sign for the proposed site, including any conditions or limitations offered by the applicant.
97.8.
Portable signs. In zoning districts C-1, C-2, C-3, M-1, and M-2, any person, firm, or corporation may be allowed one portable on-premises sign per lot or business for a special use or event, such as, but not necessarily limited to, grand openings, seasonal sales, liquidations, going-out-of-business sales, fire sales, and giveaway of free promotions, only under the following conditions and requirements:
(1)
The maximum size allowance for these devices and signs shall not exceed 32 square feet. Said sign shall not have flashing lights.
(2)
The sign must be placed on the site in such a manner as to be at least five feet from the right-of-way and to not be an obstruction for traffic or visibility. The sighting of the sign is subject to approval of the zoning enforcement officer or designated employee.
(3)
To prevent wind damage to the sign or other property, the sign must be securely anchored to the site in an acceptable manner.
(4)
The maximum number of portable sign permits to be issued to a single location or site at any given time shall be one sign. The maximum duration for each permit shall be 14 days. No more than four such permits shall be issued on the same site, location or lot within one calendar year from January 1 to December 31.
97.9.
Special requirements for projection/canopy signs. In addition to the requirements for each zoning district where a sign is to be located, the following shall apply to projection/canopy signs:
(1)
No projection/canopy sign shall be less than ten feet above the level of a sidewalk or other pedestrian way, nor shall it be less than 16 feet above the level of a driveway or other vehicular thoroughfare.
(2)
Projecting/canopy signs are not allowed over public property.
97.10.
Special requirements for reader boards. In addition to the requirements of each zoning district the following shall apply to reader boards:
(1)
Reader boards may change messages via an electronic process.
(2)
Reader boards may be attached to the wall of a structure provided the requirements of section 25.11 [sic] are met.
97.11.
Reserved.
97.12.
Special requirements for illuminated signs.
(1)
All signs shall conform to the electrical code requirements for the State of Georgia.
(2)
Illumination devices shall be placed and shielded to prevent light from being cast directly into residential districts, or hindering the operation of motor vehicles.
(3)
No revolving beam or beacon of light resembling any emergency vehicle light shall be permitted as a part of a sign display.
(4)
No sign may be internally illuminated within a residential district.
97.13.
Maintenance and removal of signs.
(1)
Any sign which pertains to an event or purpose which no longer applies, shall be deemed to have been abandoned. Such sign shall be taken down and removed within 30 days of the receipt of notice by the zoning enforcement officer to the owner, agent or person having a beneficial use of the building, structure or land upon which such sign is located.
(2)
Signs existing on the effective date of this resolution may continue in existence so long as they are properly maintained and kept in good repair. In any case any sign is not so maintained, the planning and zoning commission shall give written notice to the person, firm or corporation responsible for the sign to correct the specified maintenance problems. If the designated corrective action is not taken within 30 days of the mailing of such notice, the planning and zoning commission shall order the responsible firm or corporation to remove the sign.
(3)
Any legally established nonconforming sign or sign structure shall be permitted without alteration in size or location, provided that the requirements of section 61.5 of this resolution are met. Nothing herein shall prevent maintenance, repairing, or posting of legally established nonconforming signs.
All ordinances or parts of ordinances in conflict herewith are hereby repealed.
(Ord. No. 201203-2o, 3-20-2012; Ord. of 10-2-2018)
Section 98. - Nonstructural uses.
The following provisions shall apply to specified uses which primarily exist outside of any structure:
98.1.
Open or common space. Within developments where open or common space is required or where such space is provided by a developer, the following conditions shall apply:
98.11.
Open space shall be located approximately evenly throughout the development so that all residents of the development have easy access to such areas.
98.12.
At least 50 percent of all required common open space shall be approximately level with a slope of not greater than five percent. The common open space shall be land within the total development site used for recreational, park, or environmental conservation for the enjoyment of the occupants of the development and their guests, or dedicated to the county for use as a public park. Common open space shall [not] include public or private streets, driveways, private yards or patios, parking areas, or utility easements where the found surface cannot be used appropriately for active or passive recreation, nor other areas primarily designed for other operating functions.
98.13.
No lot or dwelling unit in a development containing open space shall be sold until a corporation, association, property owner's group, or similar entity has been formed with the right to assess all the properties which are jointly owned with interests in the common areas and facilities in the entire development or in the tract which is a part of the entire development, in order to meet the expense of such entity, and with authority to control and the duty to maintain all of said mutually available features of the development or tract portion thereof. Such entity shall operate under recorded conditions, covenants, and restrictions which may include compulsory membership of all owners of lots or dwelling units and flexibility of assessments to meet changing costs of maintenance, repairs, and services. The developer shall submit evidence of compliance with the requirement to the zoning enforcement officer. This subsection shall not apply to land dedicated to the county for public purposes.
98.2.
Development of natural resources. Within the districts permitting development of natural resources, including the removal of minerals and natural materials, such activity shall be governed by the following requirements:
98.21.
A plan of development shall accompany the application for a zoning compliance permit or conditional use permit. Such plan shall show the proposed development and its staging, proposed traffic flow patterns to and from the mining area, its relation to all adjacent property within 300 feet of the proposed mining area, topographic surveys indicating present conditions, including topography, drainage and soils, and the conditions of the mined area at the end of the exploitation phase. The plan of development shall also show that the proposed mining activity will not create hazardous or damaging conditions for other property by reason of increased flooding or rise in ground-water levels, erosion caused by increased runoff, deposition of debris from flood erosion, or for other reasons.
98.22.
The site shall be a minimum of five acres with no building or mining area within 50 feet of any property line.
98.23.
The location of the mining activities shall not place any undue hardship on adjoining property owners, and the operation in the location proposed should not create unusual traffic hazards or the need for special public streets, bridges, or any other public facilities unless the developer assumes full cost of such improvements.
98.24.
All facilities shall meet air and water quality standards of the environmental protection division of the Georgia Department of Natural Resources. The plan for reuse and reclamation shall meet the requirements of and be approved by the state surface mine land use board.
98.25.
Any extension of quarrying operations beyond the property lines actually being quarried at the effective date of this resolution shall be considered a new operation and shall obtain a zoning compliance permit or conditional use permit.
98.26.
Quarry areas being excavated shall be entirely enclosed with a six-foot high fence located at least ten feet back from the edge of any excavation.
98.3.
Campgrounds. The following requirements apply to campgrounds not developed as part of a larger park or recreation area:
98.31.
No campground shall be located except with direct access to a county, state, or federal highway and with a minimum lot width of 50 feet for the portion used for entrance and exit. No entrance or exit shall be through a residential district, or shall require movement of traffic from the campground through a residential district.
98.32.
The minimum lot area per campground shall be at least one and one-half acres.
98.33.
Recreational vehicles using campground facilities shall meet all applicable local and state regulations. Spaces shall be rented by the day or week only, with a maximum 90-day occupancy by any one user in any 180-day period.
98.34.
Accessory buildings and uses, including management headquarters, recreational facilities, toilets, showers, laundry facilities, and other uses and structures customarily incidental to the operation of a campground are permitted as accessory uses in any district in which campgrounds are allowed, provided that the following conditions are met:
98.34.1.
Accessory uses and structures and parking areas primarily related to their operation shall not occupy more than ten percent of the areas of the campground.
98.34.2.
Use of accessory uses and buildings shall be restricted to occupants of the campground.
98.34.3.
Accessory uses and buildings shall present no visible evidence of commercial character which would attract customers from outside the campground.
98.35.
No space shall be located such that any part intended for occupancy for sleeping purposes is within 25 feet of the right-of-way line of any local street or within 50 feet of the right-of-way line of any collector or arterial street or expressway.
98.36.
An application for a zoning compliance permit or conditional use permit for a campground must include approval of the proposed site plan by the Jones County Health Department.
98.4.
Cemeteries. Within districts permitting cemeteries as a permitted or conditional use, the following requirements shall apply:
98.41.
The site proposed for a cemetery shall not interfere with the development of a system of collector and larger streets in the vicinity of such site. In addition, such site shall have direct access to a thoroughfare.
98.42.
Any new cemetery shall be located on a site containing not less than 20 acres, except as otherwise provided herein.
98.43.
All structures shall be not closer than 25 feet to any property line.
98.44.
All graves or burial plots shall be not closer than 25 feet to any property or local street right-of-way line and not closer than 50 feet to any collector or arterial street or expressway right-of-way line.
98.45.
The entire cemetery property shall be landscaped and maintained.
98.46.
Provided the requirement of all applicable federal, state, and local laws and regulations are satisfied, a plot for the burial of members of the landowner's family may be established subject to the following provisions:
98.46.1.
The plot must be located within an AG-1 district.
98.46.2.
Minimum lot size shall be one acre.
98.46.3.
No grave shall be closer than 75 feet from any property line, nor closer than 100 feet from any well, nor closer than 25 feet from any public street or road right-of-way.
98.5.
Communication towers.
98.51.
No new tower or cell site may be established if there is a technically suitable space available on an existing communications tower within the geographic area that the new site is to serve.
98.52.
All structures shall be located no closer to the nearest adjoining property line than its finished height.
98.53.
All structures must meet the requirements of Part 77 of the Federal Aviation Regulations, and guidelines of the Federal Communications Commission. Said certifications shall be the responsibility of the applicant.
98.54.
All obsolete or unused facilities shall be removed within 12 months of cessation of operations at the site.
98.55.
For all towers that are required to be illuminated, a dual lighting mode of red at night and strobe during day shall be allowed. Strobe at night shall not be permitted.
(Ord. No. 201203-2o, 3-20-2012)
Section 99. - Adult entertainment establishments.
99.1.
Intent. The purpose of this section is to regulate certain types of businesses including, but not limited to, adult entertainment establishments, to the end that the many types of criminal activities frequently engendered by such businesses (as demonstrated by the experiences of other municipalities including, but not limited to, Atlanta and Fulton County, Georgia; Seattle and Renton, Washington; New York, New York; Los Angeles, California; and Fort Lauderdale and Palm Beach, Florida) will be curtailed. However, it is recognized that such regulation cannot de facto approach prohibition. Otherwise, a protected form of expression would vanish. As to adult dance establishments, this article represents a balancing of competing interests: reduced criminal activity and protection of the surrounding neighborhoods through the regulation of adult entertainment establishments versus the protected rights of adult entertainment establishments and patrons.
99.2.
Definitions. The following terms used in this section defining adult entertainment establishments shall have the meanings indicated below:
(1)
Adult bookstore means an establishment having a substantial or significant portion of its stock in trade, books, magazines or other periodicals which are distinguished or characterized by their emphasis on matter depicting, describing or relating to specified sexual activities or specified anatomical areas or an establishment with a segment or section, comprising five percent of its total floor space, devoted to the sale or display of such materials or five percent of its net sales consisting of printed materials which are distinguished or characterized by their emphasis on matter depicting, describing or relating to specified sexual activities or specified anatomical areas.
(2)
Adult dancing establishment means a business that features dancers displaying or exposing specified anatomical areas.
(3)
Adult motion picture theater means an enclosed building with a capacity of 50 or more persons used for presenting material distinguished or characterized by an emphasis on matter depicting, describing or relating to specified sexual activities or specified anatomical areas for observation by patrons therein.
(4)
Adult mini-motion picture theater means an enclosed building with a capacity of less than 50 persons used for commercially presenting material distinguished or characterized by an emphasis on matter depicting, describing or relating to specified sexual activities or specified anatomical areas for observation by patrons therein.
(5)
Adult motion picture arcade means any place to which the public is permitted or invited wherein coin- or slug-operated or electronically, electrically, or mechanically controlled still or motion picture machines, projectors or other image-producing devices are maintained to show images to five or fewer persons per machine at any one time and where the images so displayed are distinguished or characterized by an emphasis on depicting or describing specified sexual activities or specified anatomical areas.
(6)
Adult video store means an establishment having a substantial or significant portion of its stock in trade, video tapes or movies or other reproductions, whether for sale or rent, which are distinguished or characterized by their emphasis on matter depicting, describing or relating to specified sexual activities or specified anatomical areas or an establishment with a segment or section, comprising five percent of its total floor space, devoted to the sale or display of such material or which derives more than five percent of its net sales from videos which are characterized or distinguished by their emphasis on matter depicting, describing or relating to specified sexual activities or specified anatomical areas.
(7)
Erotic dance establishment means a nightclub, theater or other establishment which features live performances by topless and/or bottomless dancers, go-go dancers, strippers or similar entertainers, where such performances are distinguished or characterized by an emphasis on specified sexual activities or specified anatomical areas.
(8)
Escort bureau; introduction services means any business, agency or persons who, for a fee, commission, hire, reward or profit, furnished or offer to furnish names of persons, or who introduce, furnish or arrange for persons who may accompany other persons to or about social affairs, entertainments or places of amusement, or who may consort with others about any place of public resort or within any private quarters.
(9)
Minor means, for the purpose of this article, any person who has not attained the age of 18 years.
(10)
Specified sexual activities means and shall include any of the following:
(a)
Actual or simulated sexual intercourse, oral copulation, anal intercourse, oral anal copulation, bestiality, direct physical stimulation of unclothed genitals, flagellation, or torture in the context of a sexual relationship, or the use of excretory functions in the context of a sexual relationship and any of the following sexually oriented acts or conduct; anilingus, buggery, coprophagy, coprophilia, cunnilingus, fellatio, necrophilia, pederasty, pedophilia, piquerism, sapphism, zooerastia; or
(b)
Clearly depicted human genitals in a state of sexual stimulation, arousal, or tumescence; or
(c)
Use of human or animal ejaculation, sodomy, oral copulation, coitus, or masturbation; or
(d)
Fondling or touching of nude human genitals, pubic region, buttocks, or female breast; or
(e)
Masochism, erotic, or sexually oriented torture, beating, or infliction of pain; or
(f)
Erotic or lewd touching, fondling, or other sexual contact with an animal by a human being; or
(g)
Human excretion, urination, menstruation, vaginal or anal irrigation.
(11)
Specified anatomical areas shall include any of the following:
(a)
Less than completely and opaquely covered human genitals or pubic region; buttock; or female breast below a point immediately above the top of the areola; or
(b)
Human male genitalia in a discernibly turgid state, even if completely and opaquely covered.
99.3.
Prohibited activities. No person, firm, partnership, corporation or other entity shall publicly display or expose or suffer the public display or exposure, with less than a full opaque covering, of any portion of a person's genitals, pubic area, or buttocks in a lewd and obscene fashion. All signs or other forms of advertisement associated with a permitted adult entertainment establishment must comply with this requirement.
99.4.
General performance standards. All adult entertainment establishments defined in section 99.2 shall comply with the following requirements. For the purposes of this section, distance shall be by airline measurement from property line, using the closest property lines of the parcels of land involved. The term "parcel of land" means any quantity of land capable of being described by location and boundary, designated and used or to be used as a unit.
(1)
No adult entertainment establishment shall be located within 1,000 feet of any parcel of land upon which any establishment selling alcoholic beverages is located.
(2)
No adult entertainment establishment shall be located within 1,000 feet of any parcel of land upon which a residential dwelling unit is located, unless such dwelling unit is located within the boundaries of a C-3 zoning district.
(3)
No adult entertainment establishment shall be located within 1,000 feet of any parcel of land upon which a church, cemetery, shrine, chapel of a mortuary, or other place used exclusively for religious services or meditation is located.
(4)
No adult entertainment establishment shall be located within 1,000 feet of any regular stop or shelter where a bus used for the transportation of school students boards or discharges minors.
(5)
No adult entertainment establishment shall be located within 1,000 feet of any parcel of land upon which a licensed day care center or nursing home is located.
(6)
No adult entertainment establishment shall be located within 1,000 feet of any parcel of land upon which a public park or playground is located.
(7)
No adult entertainment establishment shall be located within 1,000 feet of any parcel of land upon which a governmental building, library, or civic center is located, except where such building is located within the boundaries of a C-3 zoning district.
(8)
All adult entertainment establishments shall comply with the following dimensional requirements:
(a)
Minimum lot area: 43,560 square feet.
(b)
Minimum frontage: 150 feet.
(c)
Maximum lot coverage: 30 percent.
(d)
Minimum lot width measured at the building line: 150 feet.
(9)
All structures associated with adult entertainment establishments shall be located at least 30 feet from the nearest property line.
(10)
All adult entertainment establishments shall be required to provide one off-street automobile parking space for each 25 square feet of gross building area or for every three customer seats, whichever results in the greater number of parking spaces.
(11)
All adult entertainment establishments shall provide a special parking area visibly designated (either by painting or appropriate signage or both) for emergency vehicle use only. Such exclusive emergency service area shall be at least 14 feet wide by 55 feet in length and shall be located as close as practicable to the main entrance(s) of the principal structure on the property.
(12)
No adult entertainment establishment may sell, serve, or permit the consumption of intoxicating or alcoholic substances on the property.
(13)
All adult entertainment establishments shall acquire and conspicuously post within the principal structure an adult entertainment establishment license as required by the Jones County Adult Entertainment Ordinance adopted June 16, 1993.
99.5.
Specific standards for adult dancing establishments. Since adult dancing establishments and erotic dance establishments feature live erotic performances, special standards in addition to the requirements in section 99.4 above must be imposed to ensure the safety of all performers and to minimize contact with patrons that could result in or lead to criminal activity. Therefore, all erotic dance establishments must comply with the following performance standards:
(1)
All dancing or other live erotic exhibitions shall be conducted on a special platform which must be raised at least two feet above the level of the floor from which patrons observe the performance.
(2)
Each performance platform shall be designed to prohibit physical contact between patrons and the performer(s). Compliance with this requirement may be satisfied by either:
(a)
Constructing a raised border around the dancing or performing area of the platform (on all sides of the platform which adjoin areas where patrons may view the performance) that is at least four feet in width and one foot high. The raised border shall be designed and distinctly marked to prohibit use during live erotic performances; or
(b)
Constructing a 42-inch high metal or wooden fence or railing around the platform at least four feet from the outer edge of the performance platform. The fence or railing must be permanently attached to the floor and distinctly marked to prohibit access to the platform by patrons.
(Ord. No. 201203-2o, 3-20-2012)
