ARTICLE XI. - ZONING ADMINISTRATION

Section 111. - Duties and powers of the zoning enforcement officer.
The zoning enforcement officer shall be any person designated by the board of commissioners of Jones County to administer the provisions of this resolution and shall have the following duties and powers:
111.1.
The zoning enforcement officer is authorized and empowered on behalf of and in the name of the board of commissioners to administer and enforce the provisions of this resolution to include receiving applications, inspecting premises, and issuing zoning compliance permits, conditional use permits, and certificates of occupancy for uses and structures which are in conformance with the provisions of this resolution. The zoning enforcement officer or his duly authorized representative may enter any building, structure, or premises to perform any duty imposed upon him by this resolution.
111.2.
The zoning enforcement officer does not have the authority to take final action on applications or matters involving variances, nonconforming uses, conditional uses, or other exceptions which this resolution has reserved for public hearings before the board of appeals and adjustments, the historic preservation commission, the planning and zoning commission, or the board of commissioners.
111.3.
The zoning enforcement officer shall keep records of any and all permits, certificates of occupancy issued, and all submitted subdivision plats, with notations of all special conditions involved. He shall file and safely keep copies of all sketches and plans submitted, and the same shall form a part of the records in his office and shall be made a public record.
111.4.
The zoning enforcement officer shall assign a street number to each lot in a proposed subdivision at the time of preliminary plat approval. Said numbers shall be recorded upon copies of the preliminary plat returned to the subdivider and retained by the zoning enforcement officer and planning and zoning commission.
111.5.
The zoning enforcement officer shall ensure that proper notice of actions of the planning and zoning commission and board of commissioners is given. It shall be the responsibility of the zoning enforcement officer to inform the planning and zoning commission and the board of commissioners of preliminary plats and final plats approved administratively.
(Ord. No. 201203-2o, 3-20-2012)
Section 112. - Permits and certificates.
Permits and certificates shall be issued in accordance with the following provisions:
112.1.
Zoning compliance permit. The zoning enforcement officer shall issue a zoning compliance permit, which may be incorporated into the building permit, for any permitted use of land or a structure or structural alteration, provided such proposed use of land or a structure or structural alteration is in conformance with the provisions of this resolution.
112.10.
An application for a zoning compliance permit, which may be incorporated into the building permit, shall be accompanied by written approval from the Jones County Health Department certifying the suitability of the site for the installation of a sewage and waste management system, and a driveway permit obtained from the board of commissioners.
112.11.
An application shall be accompanied by two copies of a dimensional sketch or a to-scale plan, signed by the owner or his authorized agent, to include, as a minimum, the following:
(1)
Lot dimensions with property line monuments located thereon.
(2)
The shape, size, height, uses, and locations of the buildings proposed to be erected, demolished, altered, or moved, and of any buildings already on the lot, yard dimensions, and the uses of structures, including the number of dwelling units within each structure, when appropriate.
(3)
Public and private easements, watercourses, and fences existing on the lot.
(4)
Street names and street right-of-way lines.
(5)
If the proposed use is or includes an outdoor advertising sign, a sketch showing the dimensions of the sign and the position of the sign in relation to nearby buildings or structures, and to nearby streets, and plans, specifications and structural details of construction on the ground.
(6)
Such other information regarding abutting property as directly affects the application.
112.12.
Each permit shall be conspicuously posted and displayed on the premises described in the permit during the period of construction or reconstruction.
112.13.
If the proposed excavation, filling, construction, movement, or use set forth in said application are in conformity with the provision of this resolution and other appropriate codes and resolutions of the board of commissioners then in effect, or if a variance from the provisions of this resolution has been granted pursuant to section 114.2, the zoning enforcement officer shall sign and return one copy of the sketch plan to the applicant and shall issue a zoning compliance permit. The zoning enforcement officer shall retain one copy of the zoning compliance permit and one copy of the sketch or plan for his records.
112.14.
If the application submitted describes work or uses which do not conform to the requirements of this resolution, the zoning enforcement officer shall not issue a zoning compliance permit, but shall return one copy of the sketch or plan to the applicant along with a signed refusal in writing. Such refusal shall state the reasons for refusal and shall cite the portions of this resolution with which the submitted sketch or plan does not comply. The zoning enforcement officer shall retain one copy of the sketch or plan and two copies of the refusal.
112.15.
Any zoning compliance permit shall automatically expire six months from the date of issuance if the person, firm, or corporation to which the permit was issued has not clearly demonstrated that the permit is being exercised for the purpose for which it was issued, or if the work so authorized is suspended or discontinued for a period of one year.
112.2.
Conditional use permit. The zoning enforcement officer shall issue a conditional use permit, which may be incorporated into the building permit, for any conditional use of land or a structure or structural alteration of a conditional use, provided such proposed use has been approved by the board of commissioners and such proposed use of land or a structure or structural alteration is in conformance with the provisions of this resolution.
112.20.
An application for a conditional use permit, which may be incorporated into the building permit, shall be accompanied by written approval from the Jones County Health Department certifying the suitability of the site for the installation of a sewage and waste management system.
112.21.
An application shall be accompanied by two copies of a dimensional sketch or to-scale plan, signed by the owner or his authorized agent, to include as a minimum, the following:
(1)
Lot dimensions with property line monuments located thereon.
(2)
The shape, size, height, uses, and location of the building proposed to be erected, demolished, altered, or moved, and of any buildings already on the lot, yard dimensions, and the uses of structures, including the number of dwelling units within each structure, when appropriate.
(3)
Public and private easements, watercourses, and fences existing on the lot.
(4)
Street names and street right-of-way lines.
(5)
Such other information regarding abutting property as directly affects the application, including a list of the names and mailing addresses of all owners of property within 200 feet of the property for which the application is submitted, as shown on the county property tax records or as known to the applicant.
112.22.
Each permit shall be conspicuously posted and displayed on the premises described in the permit during the period of construction or reconstruction.
112.23.
If the proposed excavation, filling, construction, movement or use set forth in said application are in conformity with the provisions of this resolution and other appropriate codes and resolutions of the board of commissioners then in effect, or if a variance from the provisions of this resolution has been granted pursuant to section 114.2, and if the proposed conditional use has been approved by the board of commissioners, the zoning enforcement officer shall sign and return one copy of the sketch plan to the applicant and shall issue a conditional use permit. The zoning enforcement officer shall retain one copy of the conditional use permit and one copy of the sketch or plan for his records.
112.24.
If the application submitted describes work or uses which do not conform to the requirements of this resolution, or if the application for a conditional use is disapproved by the board of commissioners, the zoning enforcement officer shall not issue a conditional use permit, but shall return one copy of the sketch or plan to the applicant, along with a signed refusal in writing. Such refusal shall state the reasons for refusal and shall cite the portions of the resolution with which the submitted sketch or plan does not comply, if applicable. The zoning enforcement officer shall retain one copy of the sketch or plan and two copies of the refusal.
112.25.
Any conditional use permit shall automatically expire six months from the date of issuance if the person, firm, or corporation to which the permit was issued has not clearly demonstrated that the permit is being exercised for the purpose for which it was issued. Any conditional use permit shall automatically expire if construction work authorized by the permit is suspended or discontinued for a period of one year, or if a use so authorized is discontinued for a period exceeding 60 days.
112.3.
Certificate of occupancy. Certificates of occupancy shall be issued by the zoning enforcement officer in accordance with the following provisions:
112.31.
Certificate of occupancy required. A certificate of occupancy is required in advance of occupancy or use of:
(1)
A building hereafter erected;
(2)
A building hereafter altered so as to affect height, or side, front or rear yards;
(3)
A change of type of occupancy or use of any building or premises.
112.32.
Issuance of certificate of occupancy. The zoning enforcement officer shall sign and issue a certificate of occupancy if the proposed use of land or of a structure, as stated on the application for such certificate and certified thereto by the owner or his authorized agent, is found to conform to the applicable provisions of this resolution, and any structure, as finally constructed, complies with the sketch plan upon which the zoning compliance permit or conditional use permit was issued.
112.33.
Denial of certificate of occupancy. A certificate of occupancy shall not be issued unless the proposed use of a structure or land conforms to the applicable provisions of this resolution, or unless the structure, as finally constructed, complies with the sketch plan upon which the zoning compliance permit or conditional use permit was issued.
(Ord. No. 201203-2o, 3-20-2012)
Section 113. - Establishment of the board of appeals and adjustments.
The board of appeals and adjustments of the unincorporated area of Jones County, Georgia is hereby established.
113.1.
Membership. The board of appeals and adjustments shall consist of five members appointed by the board of commissioners of Jones County, Georgia, for overlapping terms of five years.
113.11.
Initial appointment. The initial appointment of the board of appeals and adjustments shall be as follows: one member for one year, one member for two years, one member for three years, one member for four years, and one member for five years.
113.12.
Vacancies. Any vacancy in the membership shall be filled for the unexpired term in the same manner as the initial appointment. Members may be removed for cause by the board of commissioners upon written charges, and after a public hearing thereon.
113.13.
Public offices held. No member shall hold any other public office or position, except that one member may be a member of the planning and zoning commission.
113.2.
Rules and procedures. The board of appeals and adjustments shall observe the following procedures:
113.21.
Said board shall adopt rules in accordance with the provisions of this resolution for the conduct of its affairs.
113.22.
Said board shall elect one of its members, other than a member of the planning and zoning commission, as chairman, who shall serve for one year or until he is reelected or his successor is elected. Said board shall appoint a secretary.
113.23.
The meetings of said board shall be held at the call of the chairman and at such other times as said board may determine. The chairman, or in his absence, the acting chairman, may administer oaths and compel the attendance of witnesses by subpoena.
113.24.
All meetings of said board shall be open to the public.
113.25.
Said board shall keep minutes of its proceedings, showing the vote of each member upon each question, or if absent or failing to vote, indicating such fact, and shall keep records of its examinations and other official actions, all of which shall be immediately filed in the office of the zoning enforcement officer and shall be a public record.
(Ord. No. 201203-2o, 3-20-2012)
Section 114. - Duties and powers of the board of appeals and adjustments.
The board of appeals and adjustments shall have the following duties and powers relative to the administration of the provisions of this resolution:
114.1.
Appeals of administrative decisions. To hear and decide appeals where it is alleged there is error in any order, requirement, decision, or determination made by the zoning enforcement officer, or other administrative officials, in the enforcement of this resolution.
114.2.
Variances. The board of appeals and adjustments may authorize in specific cases such variance from the terms of this resolution as will not be contrary to the public interest where, owing to special conditions, a literal enforcement of the provisions of this resolution will, in an individual case, result in unnecessary hardship, so the spirit of this resolution shall be observed, public safety and welfare secured, and substantial justice done. Such variance may be granted in such an individual case of unnecessary hardship upon a finding by the board of appeals and adjustments that:
114.21.
There are extraordinary and exceptional conditions pertaining to the particular piece of property in question because of its size, shape, or topography; and
114.22.
The application of this resolution to this particular piece of property would create an unnecessary hardship; and
114.23.
Such conditions are peculiar to the particular piece of property involved; and
114.24.
Relief, if granted, would not cause substantial detriment to the public good or impair the purpose and intent of this resolution.
114.3.
Use variance prohibited. Said board may not grant any variance for a use of land or premises.
(Ord. No. 201203-2o, 3-20-2012)
Section 115. - Procedure for appeal of an administrative decision before the board of appeals and adjustments.
Requests for a hearing before the board of appeals and adjustments in cases where it is alleged that there is error in any order, requirement, decision, or determination made by the zoning enforcement officer or other administrative official in the enforcement of the provisions of this resolution shall observe the following procedures:
115.1.
Request for hearing. An applicant alleging error in the enforcement of the provisions of this resolution shall submit to the zoning enforcement officer a written notice of appeal, specifying the action or actions challenged and specifying the grounds of said appeal, and any supporting materials relevant to the appeal. An appeal may be withdrawn by the appellant upon written notice at any time before final decision on said appeal.
115.2.
Effect on legal proceedings. An appeal stays all legal proceedings in furtherance of the action appealed, unless the zoning enforcement officer certifies to the board of appeals and adjustments that, by reason of facts stated in the certification, a stay would, in his opinion, cause imminent peril to life and property. In such case, proceedings shall not be stayed except by a restraining order which may be granted by said board or by a court of competent jurisdiction, on application, on notice to the official from whom the appeal is taken, and on due cause shown.
115.3.
Referral to the board of appeals and adjustments. Upon receipt of a notice of appeal, the zoning enforcement officer shall inform the chairman or acting chairman of the board of appeals and adjustments of the appeal. The chairman or acting chairman shall set a time and date, not more than 45 days from the date of receipt of the notice of appeal, for a hearing upon said appeal, and direct the zoning enforcement officer to notify the appellant of such hearing.
115.4.
Notification. Upon the establishment of a hearing date upon an appeal, the zoning enforcement officer shall notify by mail the appellant of the time, date, and place of the hearing upon said appeal. Such notification shall be mailed not less than 15 days prior to the hearing.
115.5.
Hearing and decision. The following provisions shall apply to hearings upon appeals of actions taken in the enforcement of the provisions of this resolution:
115.51.
The board of appeals and adjustments shall hear and decide upon appeals in accordance with section 113.2 of this resolution.
115.52.
All applications, plans, correspondence, supporting materials, or other materials relevant to the appeal and maintained in the records of the zoning enforcement officer shall be provided to the board and shall be a part of the record of the appeal.
115.53.
Any decision made by the board of appeals and adjustments upon an appeal shall be reduced to writing and served upon the appellant, and shall be made a public record and maintained in the office of the zoning enforcement officer.
(Ord. No. 201203-2o, 3-20-2012)
Section 116. - Procedure for application for a variance from the provisions of this resolution.
The following procedure shall be followed for an application for a variance from the provisions of this resolution:
116.1.
Application. An application for a variance from the provisions of this resolution must be submitted to the zoning enforcement officer in writing on forms supplied by the zoning enforcement officer. Such application materials and site plan shall clearly indicate all elements of the proposed use for which a variance is sought and include a statement of the reason or reasons that a variance is required. An application may be withdrawn by the applicant upon written notice any time before the decision regarding said application. Any proposed variance from the provisions of this resolution must be submitted by the property owner, or a notarized statement signed by the property owner consenting to the requested variance, must be provided at the time of application submittal.
116.2.
Referral to board of appeals and adjustments. Upon receipt of an application for a variance from the provisions of this resolution, the zoning enforcement officer shall inform the chairman or, in his absence, acting chairman of the board of appeals and adjustments of the application. The chairman or acting chairman shall set a time and date, not more than 45 days from the date of application, for a hearing on said application, and direct the zoning enforcement officer to initiate notification procedures required under this section.
116.3.
Notification. The zoning enforcement officer shall notify neighboring property owners and the general public of any application for a variance from the provisions of this resolution in accordance with the following procedures:
116.31.
Upon the establishment of a hearing date for any application for a variance, the zoning enforcement officer shall attempt to notify by mail all owners of property lying within 200 feet of the property for which the application is filed. Such notification shall include the nature of the application, the time, date, and place of the hearing upon said application, and the address and telephone number of the zoning enforcement officer, should additional information be required. Such notification shall be mailed not less than 15, nor more than 45 days prior to the hearing. Any errors or omissions that may occur in regard to this section shall not impact the decision made by the board of appeals and adjustments.
116.32.
Upon the establishment of a hearing date for any application for a variance, the zoning enforcement officer shall cause to have posted in a conspicuous place on the property in question one or more signs, containing the date, time, and place of the hearing, and the address and telephone number of the zoning enforcement officer for further information. Such sign or signs shall be posted not less than 15, nor more than 45 days prior to the hearing.
116.33.
Upon the establishment of a hearing date for any application for a variance, the zoning enforcement officer shall notify by mail the applicant of the time, date, and place of the hearing upon said application. Such notification shall be mailed not less than 15 days prior to the hearing.
116.4.
Hearing and decision. The following provisions shall apply to hearings upon applications for a variance from the provisions of this resolution:
116.41.
The board of appeals and adjustments shall hear and decide upon applications for variances in accordance with sections 113.2 and 114.2 of this resolution.
116.42.
In response to comments by persons appearing at the hearing or to recommendations by the board of appeals and adjustments, the applicant may agree to modify his application, including any plans or specifications submitted. Unless such modifications are so substantial that the board determines that revised plans are necessary for adequate consideration of the application, the board may approve the application with the stipulation that the permit or certificate shall not be issued until plans reflecting the agreed upon changes are submitted to the zoning enforcement officer.
116.43.
Any decision made by the board of appeals and adjustments upon an application for a variance shall be reduced to writing and served upon the applicant and shall be made a public record and maintained in the office of the zoning enforcement officer. Such decisions shall be made within 30 days of the final hearing on the matter.
116.44.
Whenever an application for a variance is denied, the board of appeals and adjustments shall not consider any further application for the same variance on the same property or any part thereof for a period of six months from the date of final denial. An application for a variance which is essentially the same as one previously denied shall be considered as being for the same variance as was previously denied.
116.45.
Any person, firm, or corporation whose application has been previously and finally disapproved may, within 30 days from the date of final disapproval, move for a rehearing by the board of appeals and adjustments. All motions for a rehearing by the board shall be written and presented to the zoning enforcement officer, and no hearing shall be held on such motion. No motion for rehearing shall be considered unless new or additional information not available at the time of the original hearing or not presented due to excusable neglect is available. A denial of this motion is a final action. The granting of this motion shall require a new hearing and a new process of notification as if the application were considered for the first time.
116.46.
Any variance approval shall automatically expire one year from the date of the approval by the board of appeals and adjustments if the person, firm, or corporation to which the variance was granted has not clearly demonstrated that the approval is being exercised for the purpose for which it was issued. If any use of land or structure authorized by variance is suspended or discontinued for any reason, it will be treated as an existing nonconforming use and any resumption of the use of land or structure must comply with section 61. This section shall not apply to approvals granted prior to the adoption of this resolution.
(Ord. No. 201203-2o, 3-20-2012)
Section 117. - Procedure for application for a conditional use.
The following procedure shall be followed for applications for conditional use permits:
117.1.
Application. An application for a conditional use permit shall be submitted to the zoning enforcement officer in writing on forms supplied by the zoning enforcement officer. Applications for a preliminary or final conditional use permit shall include the information specified in section 112.2. Any conditional use application must be submitted by the property owner, or a notarized statement signed by the property owner consenting to the requested conditional use, must be provided at the time of application submittal.
117.11.
Inspection. The zoning enforcement officer shall inspect the application for completeness at the time of submittal. If the application is found to be complete, the application will be submitted to the planning and zoning commission. If the application is found to be incomplete, the application will be returned to the applicant with a written statement that cites the portion or portions of this resolution with which the application does not comply.
117.12.
Supplemental documentation provided by the applicant. The applicant may provide additional documentation for consideration no later than ten days prior to the hearing before the planning commission. After ten days prior to the hearing before the planning commission, the only additional documentation that will be accepted is in response to a specific request for additional information by the zoning enforcement officer, the planning commission, or the board of commissioners. This restriction shall not apply to additional information provided by the applicant that addresses documentation that has been submitted by opponents of the application.
117.2.
Submittal to planning and zoning commission. Upon receipt of an application for a conditional use, the zoning enforcement officer shall cause the applications to be placed upon the agenda of the next meeting of the planning and zoning commission for which notification requirements can be met. The zoning enforcement officer shall initiate notification procedures required under this section.
117.3.
Notification. The zoning enforcement officer shall notify neighboring property owners and the general public of any application for a conditional use in accordance with the following procedures:
117.31.
Upon the establishment of a hearing date for any application for a conditional use permit, the zoning enforcement officer shall attempt to notify by mail all owners of property lying within 200 feet of the property for which the application is filed. Such notification shall include the nature of the application, the time, date, and place of the hearing upon said application, and the address and telephone number of the zoning enforcement officer, should additional information be required. Such notification shall be mailed not less than 15, nor more than 45 days prior to the hearing. Any errors or omissions that may occur in regard to this section shall not impact the zoning decision.
117.32.
Upon the establishment of a hearing date for any application for a conditional use permit, the zoning enforcement officer shall cause to have posted in a conspicuous place on the property in question one or more signs, containing the time, date, and place of the hearing, and the address and telephone number of the zoning enforcement officer for further information. Such sign or signs shall be posted not less than 15, nor more than 45 days prior to the hearing.
117.33.
Upon the establishment of a hearing date for any application for a conditional use permit, the zoning enforcement officer shall cause to be published in a newspaper of general circulation in Jones County notice of said application. Such notice shall include the nature of the application, the time, date, and place of the hearing upon said application, and the address and telephone number of the zoning enforcement officer, should additional information be required. Such notice shall be published not less than 15, nor more than 45 days prior to the hearing.
117.34.
Upon the establishment of a hearing date for any application for a conditional use permit, the zoning enforcement officer shall notify by mail the applicant of the time, date, and place of the hearing upon said application. Such notification shall be mailed not less than 15 days prior to the hearing.
117.4.
Hearing and decision. The following provisions shall apply to hearings upon applications for a conditional use permit:
117.41.
The planning and zoning commission shall make recommendations upon and the board of commissioners shall decide upon applications for conditional use permits using the following standards:
117.41.1.
The proposed use or structure shall be compatible with development and uses existing on adjacent and nearby property.
117.41.2.
The proposed use or structure shall not have a substantial adverse impact upon the existing use or usability of adjacent or nearby property.
117.41.3.
The proposed use or structure shall not cause an excessive or burdensome use of existing streets, transportation facilities, utilities, schools, or other public facilities.
117.41.4.
Whether the proposed development will conform with the duly adopted land use and/or other physical development plans or policies for the area.
117.41.5.
Whether there are other existing or changing conditions affecting the use and development of the property which give supporting grounds for either approval or disapproval of the request.
117.42.
The planning and zoning commission shall hear and make recommendations upon applications for conditional use permits. The planning and zoning commission shall keep minutes of its proceedings, showing the vote of each member upon each question, or if absent and failing to vote, indicating such fact, and shall keep records of its examinations and other formal actions. All records shall be kept in the office of the zoning enforcement officer and shall be open for public inspection. The following procedures shall govern public hearings involving conditional use requests:
117.42.1.
Matter presented. A description of the proposed zoning decision shall be presented by the director of planning and zoning or his or her designee.
117.42.2.
Speakers. Proponents of the proposed zoning decision shall have a minimum of ten minutes to present evidence, information, and/or argument supporting the proposed decision. Opponents of the proposed zoning decision shall likewise have a minimum of ten minutes to present evidence, information, and/or argument in opposition to the proposed decision. If the proponents or opponents cannot agree on an equitable distribution of the allotted ten minutes, then the chairman or his or her designee will determine how the time will be divided. In any event, every person who wishes to speak, whether in support, opposition, or otherwise, shall have a minimum of one minute to speak. If either the proponents or the opponents of an application collectively take more than ten minutes, then the other's time shall be extended similarly if desired. The county attorney or some other designee of the chairman shall keep time.
117.42.3.
Decorum and order. Each speaker shall speak only to the merits of the proposed zoning decision and shall address his or her comments to the commissioners. Each speaker shall refrain from making personal attacks or discussing facts or opinions which are irrelevant to the decision under consideration. The chairman may limit or refuse a speaker the right to continue if the speaker, after first being warned, continues to violate this paragraph. Nothing contained herein shall be construed as prohibiting the chairman from conducting the hearing in an orderly and decorous manner to assure that the public hearing on a proposed zoning decision is conducted fairly.
117.42.4.
Availability. Written copies of these procedures shall be made available upon request to the director of planning and zoning.
117.43.
Following a public hearing upon an application for a conditional use permit, the planning and zoning commission shall form a recommendation concerning the application and transmit it to the board of commissioners for final action. The board of commissioners shall consider and decide upon said application within 180 days following receipt of the recommendation of the planning and zoning commission.
117.44.
In response to comments made by persons appearing at the hearing or to recommendations by the planning and zoning commission or board of commissioners, the applicant may agree to modify his application, including any plans or specifications submitted. Unless such modifications are so substantial that the planning and zoning commission or board of commissioners determines that revised plans are necessary for adequate consideration of the application, the board of commissioners may approve the application with the stipulation that the permit or certificate shall not be issued until plans reflecting the agreed upon changes are submitted to the zoning enforcement officer.
117.45.
Any decision made by the board of commissioners upon an application for a conditional use permit shall be reduced to writing and served upon the applicant and shall be made a public record and maintained in the office of the zoning enforcement officer.
117.46.
Whenever an application for a conditional use permit is denied, the board of commissioners shall not consider any further application for the same conditional use on the same property or any part thereof for a period of six months from the date of final denial. An application for a conditional use which is essentially the same as one previously denied shall be considered as being for the same conditional use as was previously denied.
117.47.
Any person, firm, or corporation whose application has been previously and finally disapproved, may, within 30 days from the date of final disapproval, move that the board of commissioners authorize a rehearing and reconsider the application. All motions for a rehearing shall be written and presented to the zoning enforcement officer, and no hearing shall be held on such motion. No motion for rehearing shall be considered unless new or additional information not available at the time of the original hearing, or not presented due to excusable neglect, is available. A denial of this motion is final action. The granting of this motion shall require a new hearing and a new process of notification, as if the application were considered for the first time.
117.48.
Unless otherwise specified by the board of commissioners at the time of approval, any conditional use approval shall automatically expire one year from the date of the approval by the board of commissioners if the person, firm, or corporation to which the conditional use was granted has not obtained a conditional use permit for the purpose for which it was issued. This section shall not apply to approvals granted prior to the adoption of this resolution.
(Ord. No. 201203-2o, 3-20-2012)
Section 118. - Procedures and standards governing the adoption of a zoning ordinance or comprehensive land development resolution.
118.1.
Hearing procedures. The following procedures shall govern all public hearings involving the adoption of a new zoning ordinance or comprehensive land development resolution:
118.11.
Matter presented. A description of the proposed zoning decision shall be presented by the director of planning and zoning or his or her designee.
118.12.
Speakers. Proponents of the proposed zoning decision shall have a minimum of ten minutes to present evidence, information, and/or argument supporting the proposed decision. Opponents of the proposed zoning decision shall likewise have a minimum of ten minutes to present evidence, information, and/or argument in opposition to the proposed decision. If the proponents or opponents cannot agree on an equitable distribution of the allotted ten minutes, then the chairman or his or her designee will determine how the time will be divided. In any event, every person who wishes to speak, whether in support, opposition, or otherwise, shall have a minimum of one minute to speak. If either the proponents or the opponents of an application collectively take more than ten minutes, then the other's time shall be extended similarly if desired. The county attorney or some other designee of the chairman shall keep time.
118.13.
Decorum and order. Each speaker shall speak only to the merits of the proposed zoning decision and shall address his or her comments to the commissioners. Each speaker shall refrain from making personal attacks or discussing facts or opinions which are irrelevant to the decision under consideration. The chairman may limit or refuse a speaker the right or continue if the speaker, after first being warned, continues to violate this paragraph. Nothing contained herein shall be construed as prohibiting the chairman from conducting the hearing in an orderly and decorous manner to assure that the public hearing on a proposed zoning decision is conducted fairly.
118.14.
Availability. Written copies of these procedures shall be made available upon request to the director of planning and zoning.
118.2.
Standards governing the exercise of zoning powers. The following standards shall govern the decision to adopt a new zoning ordinance or comprehensive land development resolution:
118.21.
Whether the proposed zoning decision will permit a use of property that is suitable in view of the use and development of adjacent and nearby property;
118.22.
Whether the proposed zoning decision will adversely affect the existing use or usability of adjacent or nearby property;
118.23.
Whether the property to be affected by the proposed zoning decision has a reasonable economic use as currently zoned;
118.24.
Whether the proposed zoning decision will result in a use which will or could cause an excessive or burdensome use of existing streets, transportation facilities, utilities, or schools;
118.25.
Whether the proposed zoning decision is in conformity with the policy and intent of the land use plan; and
118.26.
Whether there are other existing or changing conditions affecting the use and development of the property which give supporting grounds for either approval or disapproval of the proposed zoning decision.
(Ord. No. 2012-001, 2-21-2012)
