DIVISION 1. - GENERALLY

Sec. 22-56. - Definitions.
(a)
The following words, terms and phrases, when used in this article, shall have the meanings ascribed to them in this section, except where the context clearly indicates a different meaning:
Aircraft means any contrivance designed, invented or used for navigation or flight in the air, except a parachute or other contrivance used primarily as safety equipment.
Airport means Hartsfield-Jackson Atlanta International and all properties located within the boundaries thereof or any other airport which may be operated by the city.
Aviation general manager means the designated manager of the airport or that official's representative.
Bus means the same as defined in section 22-201.
Central passenger terminal complex or CPTC means the landside terminal buildings and the concourse buildings, the FIS facility, the mechanical building; the aircraft parking and ramp area, the pedestrian mall; the automatic guideway transit systems (AGTS); and all related facilities, certain additions and improvements thereto and certain additional passenger terminal facilities at the airport.
City airlines or signatory airlines means all of the airlines serving Hartsfield-Jackson Atlanta International who hold certificates from the United States Department of Transportation or its successor agency to transport passengers, mail and property to and from the airport on a regularly scheduled basis and who have entered into an airport use agreement with the city.
Commercial operations means all operations of aircraft for commercial purposes and shall include, without limitation, the following:
(1)
Operations by a scheduled air carrier not holding a formal agreement with the city for use of the airport;
(2)
Operation of nonscheduled air service for transportation of freight, express or passenger or charter service; and
(3)
Scheduled operations, as further defined in this section.
Courtesy cars means the same as defined in section 22-201 (courier vehicle and courtesy vehicle).
FAA means the Federal Aviation Administration or other such agency created by the federal government for the control of civil aviation.
Gross weight means the maximum allowable gross landing weight of aircraft, as determined by the FAA or other governmental agency having jurisdiction.
Host lessee means any person or any other legal entity holding a lease, sublease or any other form of rental or concession agreement on the airport property which has the capability of parking aircraft for passenger, mail or cargo loading and unloading or for the sale, servicing or repair of aircraft.
Landed weight means the total weight of all aircraft landed at the airport, based on the Federal Aviation Administration's certificated maximum gross landing weight, per type of aircraft, by the city airlines during the 12-month period immediately preceding May 1 of each year.
Landing area means all aircraft operation areas, including runways, taxiways, ramps and aprons.
Limousine means the same as defined in section 22-201.
Nonsignatory landing fee means the charge made by the city for each nonsignatory air carrier, air taxi and general aviation aircraft operation, based upon the rate determined by the procedures set out in section 22-87.
Public parking facilities means all parking facilities provided by the city for the public at or in conjunction with the airport.
Scheduled operations means all operations of aircraft by scheduled air carriers holding certificates of convenience and necessity from the United States Department of Transportation designating the city as a service point and holding a formal airport use agreement with the city authorizing use of the airport.
Security identification display area or (SIDA) means all areas of the airport except those areas open to the public, including but not limited to, the landing field, runways, taxiways, nonlicensed vehicle roads, aircraft ramps or any air operations areas, hangers, aircraft parking aprons, or any area designated by the aviation general manager or as promulgated from time to time by the FAA pursuant to FAR Part 107 as an area wherein an airport approved badge must be worn at all times unless under an airport approved escort.
Solicitation or to solicit means to directly or indirectly, actively or passively, openly or subtly, ask, request, importune, seek or try to obtain.
Taxicab or taxi means the same as defined in section 22-201.
Tenant or lessee means any person engaged in business on the airport under authority granted by the aviation general manager or by virtue of a contract with the city.
Transient aircraft means an aircraft not using the airport as its permanent base of operations.
(b)
Words relating to aeronautical practices, processes and equipment shall be construed according to their general usage in the aviation industry.
(Code 1977, § 12-2002; Ord. No. 1999-77, § 1, 10-26-99; Ord. No. 2004-51, §§ 1, 2, 8-20-04)
Cross reference— Definitions generally, § 1-2.
Sec. 22-57. - Official name of airport.
The airport owned and operated by the city is named the "William B. Hartsfield-Jackson Atlanta International Airport" and shall be known as "Hartsfield-Jackson Atlanta International."
(Code 1977, § 12-2001; Ord. No. 2004-51, § 1, 8-20-04)
Sec. 22-58. - Operation in public interest.
In the exercise and performance of its powers and duties under O.C.G.A. tit. 6, ch. 3, art. 2 (O.C.G.A. § 6-3-20 et seq.), the uniform airports law, the council recognizes and declares that Hartsfield-Jackson Atlanta International is being operated in the public interest and declares its intention to encourage and develop air transportation for the citizens of the state and in particular for the citizens of the greater Atlanta area and to that end pledges the use of the airport for public, governmental and municipal purposes.
(Code 1977, § 12-2003; Ord. No. 2004-51, §§ 1, 2, 8-20-04)
Sec. 22-59. - Emergency procedures.
When an emergency exists at the airport, the aviation general manager shall be empowered to take that action which, within the manager's discretion and judgment, is necessary or desirable to protect the health, welfare and safety of persons and property and to facilitate the operation of the airport.
(Code 1977, § 12-3007)
Sec. 22-60. - Compliance required.
Any permission granted by the city, directly or indirectly, expressly or by implication or otherwise to any person to enter or to use the airport or any part thereof is conditioned upon strict compliance with this Code and the ordinances of the city. It shall be the duty and obligation of all those entering the premises of the airport to be familiar with this article.
(Code 1977, § 12-3001)
Sec. 22-61. - Space occupancy permit or contract.
Occupancy and use of any space or the conduct of any business, commercial enterprise or other form of revenue-producing activity on the airport shall not be permitted unless a written contract or permit for such occupancy, use or conduct of business has first been obtained from the city or, where appropriate, approved by the aviation general manager.
(Code 1977, § 12-6001)
Sec. 22-62. - Commercial activity.
No person shall occupy or rent space and no person shall carry on any business, commercial enterprise or other form of revenue-producing activity on the airport without first obtaining written permission from the city.
(Code 1977, § 12-3002)
Sec. 22-63. - Agreement or permit required for use of airport for commercial operations.
(a)
Any person desiring to conduct commercial operations at the airport, which operations require the use of facilities under a lease with the city or a sublease or other arrangements with a host lessee, shall first enter into an airport use agreement with the city or obtain an airport use permit from the aviation general manager which shall set forth the terms and conditions under which such operations may be conducted and which shall provide for the payment to the city of landing fees and other charges, for indemnification of the city, for the posting of bonds or deposits and for other requirements appropriate to such commercial operation. The landing fee rate to be paid by signatory airlines shall be computed in the manner set forth in the airport use agreement, which shall be the same for all signatory airlines. The landing fee rate to be paid by nonsignatory airlines under an airport use permit shall be computed in the manner set forth in section 22-87(b).
(b)
The aviation general manager is authorized to issue an airport use permit to any person who holds all necessary certificates from federal or state agencies having jurisdiction to provide air transportation of passengers, mail or cargo at the airport and who elects not to execute an airport use agreement with the city. As a condition for obtaining and holding such permit, such person shall agree to comply with terms and conditions designed to ensure that the fees and charges due the city in connection with such operations and all expenses or costs incurred by the city as a result of such operations shall be paid in a timely manner and to ensure that the city will be indemnified against claims from third parties arising as a result of such operations and to ensure that all obligations and duties assumed by such person, whether express or implied, in connection with such operations shall be carried out fully and faithfully.
(Code 1977, §§ 12-2006, 12-2007)
Cross reference— Businesses, ch. 30.
Sec. 22-64. - Commercial advertising and display.
No person shall post, distribute or display commercial (for profit) advertisements, literature, circulars, pictures, sketches, drawings or other forms of printed or written matter without first obtaining written permission from the aviation general manager.
(Code 1977, § 12-3003)
Sec. 22-65. - Damage to airport property.
Damage, destruction or defacement of airport property is covered by O.C.G.A. § 16-7-24. No person shall alter, make additions to or erect any building or sign on the airport or make any excavations on the airport or willfully abandon any personal property on the airport. Any person causing or being responsible for the injury, destruction, damage or disturbance shall report such damage to the office of the aviation general manager and, upon demand by such office, shall reimburse the city for the full amount of damage.
(Code 1977, § 12-3004)
Sec. 22-66. - Restricted area, security identification display area.
(a)
Restricted areas. No person shall be permitted to walk or drive across or upon the restricted areas of the airport without possessing and displaying a proper photo identification badge, which has been approved by the aviation general manager. Occasional visitors must wear other identification approved by FAA pursuant to an approved airport security plan. All areas of the airport except those areas open to the public are restricted, including but not limited to the landing field, runways, taxiways, nonlicensed vehicle roads, the ramps, any of the air operations areas, and any hangar or the aprons of the airport, as provided in the airport security plan. Further, no person shall be permitted access to the concourses or public aircraft departure areas of the airport terminal without passing through the security screening points established in compliance with federal aviation regulations, unless such access is to be gained in accordance with procedures approved by the aviation general manager.
(b)
Security identification display area.
(1)
No person shall enter into or walk or drive across or upon the areas of the airport that have been designated as security identification display areas or SIDA without possessing and continuously displaying a proper and valid SIDA badge issued by the aviation general manager or other identification authorized pursuant to the airport's FAA approved security plan, or unless such person is escorted by a person possessing and displaying an appropriate identification. A SIDA badge will be deemed to be properly displayed only if it is continuously worn on the outermost garment between the waist and neck.
(2)
No person shall allow others to enter into a security identification display area without swiping each individual SIDA badge for each person entering such area, unless the person is being escorted by a person possessing a SIDA badge.
(3)
No person shall use or attempt to use or display an expired, suspended, revoked or a counterfeit SIDA badge, nor shall any person use or attempt to use or display a SIDA badge unless such person is the actual authorized holder of such badge.
(4)
Any person to whom a SIDA badge is issued shall immediately report to his/her supervisor or airport police the presence of any person observed not displaying proper identification in a secured area. Persons must maintain observation of the individual or escort the individual out of the secured area.
(5)
Persons who are authorized to escort others into a secured area must at all times direct and control the movement of the person or persons being escorted while within the secured area.
(c)
Sanctions. The aviation general manager shall be authorized to suspend or revoke SIDA badges; require security procedures retraining and assess fees arising out of violations of this section. A violator and/or violators company will be responsible for any monetary fees assessed by the aviation general manager and any additional fines imposed by FAA against the airport as a result of the violation. The aviation general manager is also authorized to impose progressive disciplinary measures for violations of this code section, which shall consist of the following:
(1)
First offense: The aviation general manager will cause the issuance of a written citation notifying the individual of the specific security rule that has been violated, with a copy to the company responsible for the individual's SIDA badge. Within seven days of a final determination that a violation has occurred. Violators will be required to retake the airport's FAA required security awareness training class and may be assessed pay a $50.00 retraining fee. The aviation general manager may also assess a $250.00 fee against the responsible company based upon the severity of the violation and previous violations by employees of the company.
(2)
Second offense occurring within 12 months of the first offense: The violator and his or her supervisor must meet with the airport security manager or his/her designee, they must together attend the airports FAA required security awareness training class. A fee of $100.00 may be assessed against the violator and a fee of $500.00 may be assessed against the violators responsible company based upon the severity of the violation and previous violations by employees of the company. Unescorted access privileges may be suspended for a period of up to 30 days.
(3)
Third offense occurring within 24 months of the first offense: The violator's unescorted access privileges may be suspended for 12 months by the airport general manager. The violator may be accessed a $200.00 retraining fee and the violators responsible company may be required to pay a fee of $1,000.00 based upon the severity of the violation and previous violations by employees of the company.
(4)
Revocation: Any person violating the provisions contained in this section shall be subject to the revocation of their unescorted access privileges and the confiscation of their SIDA badge.
(d)
Process and appeals.
(1)
Prior to the imposition of any fee, suspension, or revocation, of unescorted access privileges, the aviation general manager shall notify in writing the violator and the company that he or she works for, so that the violator or the company might present any defense that he or she may have to the proposed fee, suspension or revocation. Such defense shall be presented in writing or the violator or company may request to present the defense orally within three days of receipt of such notices of the proposed action. Notices of proposed actions shall be either delivered personally to the violator and the company or shall be mailed to the last known address of the company as same appears in the files of the airport. Such notices shall set forth the grounds upon which the proposed fee, revocation or suspension is predicated.
a.
The violator and the responsible company may request that the aviation general manager reconsider a breach of security ruling and/or suspension of unescorted access privilege on behalf of its employee.
b.
All appeals must be submitted in writing to Hartsfield-Jackson Atlanta International Airport, Office of General Manager, Attention: Aviation Security Division, 6000 North Terminal Parkway, Suite 314, Atlanta, Georgia, 30320 or via facsimile at (404) 530-6839.
c.
The appeal must arrive within 24 hours of the notice of a breach of security ruling or suspension. Failure to comply with this requirement may result in an immediate denial of the appeal.
d.
The aviation general manager will issue a final ruling on the matter.
(Code 1977, § 12-3005; Ord. No. 1999-77, § 2, 10-26-99; Ord. No. 2004-51, §§ 1, 2, 8-20-04)
Sec. 22-67. - Applicability of fire code.
The provisions of the city's fire code are adopted by reference in this article and apply to the airport. Copies of the fire code are available from the municipal clerk and the department of fire. All fueling and defueling operations must comply with all applicable FAA regulations.
(Code 1977, §§ 12-3051, 12-3052)
Cross reference— Fire prevention and fire safety standards, § 78-56 et seq.
Sec. 22-68. - Smoking.
(a)
Definitions. The following words, terms and phrases, when used in this section, shall have the meanings ascribed to them in this subsection, except where the context clearly indicates a different meaning:
Smoking means inhaling, exhaling, burning or carrying any lighted cigar, cigarette, pipe or other smoking equipment in any manner or form.
(b)
No person shall smoke or carry lighted cigarettes, cigars, pipes, matches or any open flame in or upon buildings and facilities owned or operated by the city department of aviation, except in designated areas.
(c)
A smoking area may not be designated in:
(1)
An elevator;
(2)
A rest room;
(3)
A service line, ticket line or over-the-counter sales area;
(4)
A gate hold area, common traffic area or baggage claim area, unless such area is fully enclosed and ventilated, and there shall not be more than two such areas on any concourse; or
(5)
A place in which smoking is prohibited by the fire code or other law, ordinance or rule.
(d)
Each employer who operates a place of employment within the boundaries of Hartsfield-Jackson Atlanta International shall, subject to the other provisions in this section, maintain a written smoking policy consistent with this section that accommodates the wishes of smoking and nonsmoking employees by designating smoking areas. If a dispute arises, the preferences of nonsmokers shall be accommodated. However, the employer is not required to make structural or physical modifications to accommodate the smoking area, and existing physical barriers and ventilation systems shall be used to minimize the effect of smoke adjacent to nonsmoking areas.
(e)
The management of a restaurant, bar or other eating establishment that has a seating capacity of more than 25 persons shall designate a smoking area proportionate in size to the number of customers normally requesting a smoking area. This policy does not prohibit a proprietor from designating a restaurant or bar in its entirety as a nonsmoking area.
(f)
The management of a fully enclosed restaurant or bar with a seating capacity of less than 25 persons or a fully enclosed concession area with less than 4,000 square feet of retail floor space may designate the area in its entirety as a smoking area. If the restaurant, retail space or bar is designated in its entirety, that fact shall be posted conspicuously at all entrances to the premises.
(g)
All persons responsible for implementing this policy shall post, in a conspicuous place, signs in any areas designated as smoking areas. The aviation general manager shall cause to have posted at all entrances to the terminal buildings and at the entrances of all city employee occupied buildings, signs stating: "Smoking is Prohibited Except in Designated Areas."
(h)
All persons responsible for implementing this policy shall make a reasonable effort to prevent smoking by posting signs as required in this section and asking smokers to refrain from smoking in all areas not designated as smoking areas.
(i)
This section does not prohibit an employer or other proprietor with a business located on airport property from adopting a more stringent policy.
(j)
Each employer required to adopt a written policy under this section shall provide proof of same to the office of the aviation general manager within 120 days from the date the business begins to operate on airport property.
(k)
The director of airport operations shall be responsible for implementing this section.
(l)
Fully enclosed offices or rooms occupied exclusively by smokers shall be exempt from this section.
(m)
Appropriate signage shall be installed throughout the public areas of the airport by the department of aviation, except that employers or tenants whose businesses are located in exclusively leased areas not ordinarily accessible by the general public may utilize their own design or signs so long as the signs are clearly visible and are not inconsistent with other department of aviation regulations or policies.
(n)
Notwithstanding the provisions of this section, any employer, tenant or other proprietor may delegate to the department of aviation, in writing, the responsibility of designating smoking areas within their respective areas. This provision shall not, however, relieve the employer, tenant or proprietor from the other requirements of this section.
(o)
No person under the age of 18 shall be allowed to enter the designated smoking rooms provided by this section, and appropriate signage shall be posted to that effect.
(p)
Any person who violates the provisions of this section shall, upon conviction, be punished as provided in section 1-8
(Code 1977, §§ 12-3010, 12-3011; Ord. No. 2004-51, §§ 1, 2, 8-20-04)
Cross reference— Smoking generally, § 86-31 et seq.; smoking in certain areas within city buildings and facilities, § 106-9.
Sec. 22-69. - Operation of common-use airport facilities; enforcement.
The aviation general manager may establish and issue rules, procedures and regulations to govern the operation of passenger terminal building facilities, apron facilities, ramp locations and other airport facilities designated as common-use airport facilities by the aviation general manager and may, from time to time, revise such rules, procedures and regulations. All users of common-use airport facilities shall comply with any such rules, procedures and regulations. The aviation general manager may establish and collect fines and may provide for non-pecuniary penalties for the failure of any user of common-use airport facilities to comply with rules, procedures and regulations issued under this section.
(Ord. No. 2007-24(07-O-0674), § 1, 5-14-07)
Sec. 22-70. - Airside operating permit (AOP).
(a)
General. Any company desiring to do business at the airport and requiring airside access, but does not have an executed lease or contract with the city, shall first apply for an airside operating permit (AOP). If a company is granted an AOP, the company and its employees shall comply with all City of Atlanta ordinances, including all rules, procedures, and regulations found in the airside operating permit terms and conditions. The aviation general manager or designee may, from time to time, revise such rules, procedures, and regulations.
The AOP application shall be completed prior to the beginning of the security badging process.
The AOP shall be valid for a period of 12 consecutive months from the date of department of aviation (DOA) approval. The AOP shall terminate at the end of 12 months.
The permittee is required to pay the administrative fee only once within 12 calendar months of DOA approval. If the permittee returns to work at the airport within this specified time frame for another project, the permittee is required to reapply and update all application information for each project.
The permittee shall reapply for the AOP prior to the end of 12 months. At the time of renewal, the permittee shall update all application information for each project and remit the administrative fee for the next 12-month period.
The aviation general manager or designee reserves the right to review previous offenses and current financial standing with the city. The city reserves the right to deny the AOP renewal.
The AOP fee shall be assessed by the aviation general manager or designee. A fee schedule shall be approved by the aviation general manager or designee at least 30 days prior to its implementation.
A permit may be cancelled at any time by either party, upon not less than 15 calendar days notice in writing, to the other party. Cancellation shall not relieve the permittee of any liabilities or obligations incurred and accrued prior to the effective date of such cancellation.
(b)
Sanctions. The aviation general manager or designee may, in the manager's discretion, suspend or revoke the AOP for a definite or indefinite period, or impose fines arising out of violations to any of the City of Atlanta ordinances or any terms and conditions of the AOP. The company shall be responsible for any monetary fees assessed by the aviation general manager or designee. The aviation general manager or designee is authorized to impose progressive disciplinary measures for violations of any city ordinance, which shall consist of the following:
(1)
First offense: The company may be assessed a $250.00 fine.
(2)
Second offense: The company may be assessed a $500.00 fine within 12 months of the first offense.
(3)
Third offense: The company may be assessed a $1,000.00 fine within 12 months of the first offense.
(4)
Suspension: The company's AOP may be suspended by the aviation general manager or designee.
(5)
Revocation: Any company violating any city ordinance shall be subject to revocation of its AOP.
(c)
Process and appeals.
(1)
Prior to the imposition of any fine, suspension, or revocation, the aviation general manager or designee shall notify in writing the company so that the company may present any defense that the company may have to the proposed fine, suspension, or revocation. Such defense shall be presented in writing or the company may request to present the defense orally within three business days of receipt of such notice. Notices of proposed actions shall be either delivered personally to the company or shall be mailed to the last known address of the company as same appears in the files of the airport.
a.
The company responsible may request that the aviation general manager or designee reconsider any fine, suspension, or revocation.
b.
All appeals must be submitted in writing to Hartsfield-Jackson Atlanta International Airport, Attention: Assistant General Manager of Airport Operations, Security, and Maintenance, 6000 North Terminal Parkway, Atlanta, Georgia, 30320 or via facsimile at (404) 209-4154.
c.
The appeal must arrive within five business days of the imposed fine, suspension, or revocation.
d.
The aviation general manager or designee will issue a final ruling on the matter.
(Ord. No. 2009-37(09-O-1047), § 1, 7-13-09)
Secs. 22-71—22-80. - Reserved.
