DIVISION 15. - A-L APARTMENT LIMITED DWELLING DISTRICT

Sec. 64-715. - Scope and intent.
The regulations in this division are the A-L district regulations. Article IX should be consulted to determine uses and minimum standards for uses allowed by administrative permit or use permit. The A-L district is intended to provide land areas for high to very high density apartment dwellings which will:
(1)
Encourage attractive apartment living opportunities.
(2)
Encourage the provision of recreation areas and facilities.
(3)
Be located in areas of intense development near retail shopping, schools and major thoroughfares.
(4)
Be located so as to provide a transition between medium density residential areas and nonresidential areas.
Sec. 64-716. - Use regulations.
Within the A-L district, land and structures shall be used in accordance with standards herein. Any use not specifically designated as a permitted use in this section or as a use allowed by administrative permit or use permit shall be prohibited.
(1)
Permitted uses. Structures and land may be used for only the following purposes:
a.
Multifamily dwelling.
b.
Any use permitted in the A district.
(2)
Accessory uses. A structure or land may be used for uses customarily incidental to any permitted use and a dwelling may be used for a home occupation. Accessory retail and service uses such as restaurants, gift shops, flower shops, snack bars, barbershops, and beauty shops shall be located wholly within principal buildings with no outdoor advertising.
Sec. 64-717. - Development standards.
(a)
Height regulations. Buildings shall be no higher than 60 feet or four stories, whichever is higher except when a use permit to exceed the maximum height is approved.
(b)
Minimum front yard shall be 40 feet.
(c)
Minimum side yard shall be as follows:
(1)
Adjacent to interior side line: 20 feet.
(2)
Adjacent to street side line: 40 feet.
(d)
Minimum rear yard shall be 20 feet.
(e)
Minimum width. There is no minimum width.
(f)
Minimum A-L lot frontage shall be 35 feet adjoining a street.
(g)
Minimum heated floor area shall be as follows:
(1)
Three bedroom apartments: 700 square feet.
(2)
Two bedroom apartments: 600 square feet.
(3)
One bedroom apartments: 500 square feet.
(4)
Efficiency or studio apartments: 400 square feet.
(h)
Minimum accessory structure requirements. Accessory structures shall not be located in the minimum front yard.
(i)
Maximum lot coverage. The area of the footprint of all buildings and parking shall not exceed 70 percent of the total land area.
(j)
Minimum building separation. All building separations shall be as specified by the city's building code.
(k)
Outdoor recreation. Outdoor area consisting of not less than ten percent of the gross land area shall be provided for recreation.
Sec. 64-718. - Other regulations.
The following headings contain provisions applicable to the A-L district:
(1)
Development regulations: article XVII of this zoning ordinance.
(2)
Signs: article XVI of this zoning ordinance.
(3)
Exceptions: article II, division 3 of this zoning ordinance.
(4)
Floodplain management: article IV of this zoning ordinance.
(5)
Off-street parking and loading: article VIII of this zoning ordinance.
(6)
Outside storage: article II, division 2 of this zoning ordinance.
(7)
Landscape area and buffer regulations: article III of this zoning ordinance.
(8)
River protection: Metropolitan River Protection Act, O.C.G.A. § 12-5-440 et seq.
(9)
Noise study report: section 64-2131.
Secs. 64-719—64-727. - Reserved.
