Chapter 1 - GENERAL PROVISIONS[1]

Footnotes:
--- (1) ---
State Law reference— Municipal Home Rule Act, O.C.G.A. § 36-35-1 et seq.; home rule for municipalities, O.C.G.A. § 36-35-3; limitations on home rule for municipalities, O.C.G.A. § 36-35-6; authority to adopt ordinances for regulation of matters for which no provision has been made by general law, O.C.G.A. § 36-1-20; duty to codify ordinances, O.C.G.A. § 36-80-19; inspection of public records, O.C.G.A. § 50-18-70 et seq.; requirements for publication of code, O.C.G.A. § 36-80-19; maximum penalties that may be imposed by municipalities, O.C.G.A. §§ 36-35-6, 36-32-1, 36-32-5; additional penalties and bond in certain criminal and traffic cases, O.C.G.A. § 15-21-73; authority to impose community service as punishment, O.C.G.A. § 17-10-1; alternative sentences by municipal courts, O.C.G.A. § 36-32-5; municipal corporation defined, O.C.G.A. § 36-30-1.

Sec. 1-1. - Designation of Code; citation.
The ordinances embraced in the following chapters, articles and sections shall constitute and be designated as "The Code of the City of Milton, Georgia," and may be so cited. Such Code may also be known and cited as "The Code of Ordinances of the City of Milton, Georgia," or as the "Milton Code."
(Ord. No. 06-11-07, § 1(ch. 1, art. 1, § 1), 11-21-2006)
State Law reference— Authority to adopt ordinances for regulation of matters for which no provision has been made by general law, O.C.G.A. § 36-1-20; duty to codify ordinances, O.C.G.A. § 36-80-19.
Sec. 1-2. - Rules of construction.
Applicability. In the construction of this Code, and of all ordinances, the following rules shall be observed, unless such construction would be inconsistent with the manifest intent of the city council. The rules of construction and definitions set out in this section shall not be applied to any section of this Code which contain any express provisions excluding such construction or where the subject matter or context of the section may be repugnant thereto.
As soon as possible. The term "as soon as possible" and similar constructions mean within a reasonable time, having due regard to all the circumstances.
Computation of time. Except as otherwise provided by time period computations applying to specified sections, when a period of time measured in days, weeks, months, years, or other measurements of time except hours is prescribed for the exercise of any privilege or the discharge of any duty, the first day shall not be counted but the last day shall be counted; and, if the last day falls on Saturday or Sunday, the party having such privilege or duty shall have through the following Monday to exercise the privilege or to discharge the duty. When the last day prescribed for such action falls on a public and legal holiday, the party having the privilege or duty shall have through the next business day to exercise the privilege or to discharge the duty. When the period of time prescribed is less than seven days, intermediate Saturdays, Sundays, and legal holidays shall be excluded in the computation.
Conjunctions. Where a provision involves two or more items, conditions, provisions, or events connected by any of the conjunctions "and," "or," "either … or," or "neither … nor," the conjunction shall be interpreted as follows, provided that in appropriate cases the terms "and" and "or" are interchangeable:
(1)
The term "and" indicates that all the connected items, conditions, provisions or events shall apply.
(2)
The term "or" indicates that the connected items, conditions, provisions, or events may apply singly or in any combination.
(3)
The terms "either … or" and "neither … nor" indicate that the connected items, conditions, provisions, or events shall apply singly, but not in combination.
Delegation of authority. Whenever a provision appears requiring the head of a department or other officer of the city to do some act or perform some duty, it shall be construed to authorize such department head or officer to designate, delegate and authorize subordinates to the required act or perform the required duty unless the terms of the provision designate otherwise.
Department, board, agency. The name or title of any department, board, or agency, unless otherwise specifically stated otherwise, shall be read as though the words "of the City of Milton, Georgia" were added thereto.
Gender. A word importing one gender shall extend and be applied to the other genders, except where inappropriate.
Interpretation. In the interpretation and application of any provision of this Code, it shall be held to be the minimum requirement adopted for the promotion of the public health, safety, comfort, convenience and general welfare. Where any provision of this Code imposes greater restrictions upon the subject matter than any general provisions imposed by this Code, the provision imposing the greater restriction or regulation shall be applicable.
Joint authority. Whenever a joint authority is given to three or more persons or officers, it shall be construed as giving such authority to a majority of them.
Liberal construction; minimum requirements; overlapping provisions.
(1)
The ordinary signification shall be applied to all words, except words of art or words connected with a particular trade or subject matter when they shall have the signification attached to them by experts in such trade or with reference to such subject matter.
(2)
In all interpretations, the courts shall look diligently for the intention of the city council, keeping in view, at all times, the old law, the evil, and the remedy. Grammatical errors shall not vitiate, and a transposition of words and clauses may be resorted to when the sentence or clause is without meaning as it stands.
(3)
All general provisions, terms, phrases, and expressions contained in this Code shall be liberally construed in order that the true intent and meaning of the city council may be fully carried out. In the interpretation and application of any provision of this Code, they shall be held to be the minimum requirements adopted for the promotion of the public health, safety, comfort, convenience, and general welfare.
Nontechnical and technical words. Words and phrases shall be constructed according to the common and approved usage of the language; but technical words and phrases and such others as may have acquired a peculiar and appropriate meaning in law shall be construed and understood according to such meaning.
Number. A word importing only the singular number may extend and be applied to several persons or things as well as to one person or thing.
Oath. The term "oath" includes an affirmation in all cases in which, by law, an affirmation may be substituted for an oath, and in such cases the terms "swear" and "sworn" shall be equivalent to the terms "affirm" and "affirmed."
Officials, officers. The name or title of any officer or department shall be read as though the words "of the City of Milton" were added thereto.
Reasonable time or reasonable notice. The term "reasonable time" or "reasonable notice" means only such time as may be necessary for the prompt performance of the act required.
Shall, may. The term "shall" is mandatory; the term "may" is permissive.
Tense. Words used in the past or present tense include the future as well as the past and present.
Will. The term "will" is to be construed as being mandatory.
State Law reference— Statutory definitions and rules of construction, O.C.G.A. § 1-3-1 et seq.; construction of statutory definitions, O.C.G.A. § 1-3-2; general statutory definitions, O.C.G.A. § 1-3-3.
Sec. 1-3. - Definitions.
As used in this Code, the following terms and phrases shall have the meanings indicated unless otherwise specifically provided:
Charter. The term "Charter" refers to the enabling legislation creating a municipal charter for the City of Milton, enacted as HB 1470 during the General Session of the 2006 General Assembly (2006 Ga. Laws (Act No. 438), p. 3554), as amended.
City. The term "city" refers to the City of Milton, Georgia.
City clerk. The term "city clerk" refers to that city employee charged with keeping the city minute book.
Code. The term "Code" refers to The Code of the City of Milton, Georgia.
Council. The term "council" refers to the six councilmembers and the mayor.
Councilmember. The term "councilmember" refers to the individual members of the city council, including the mayor.
County. The term "county" means Fulton County, Georgia.
Fee schedule or schedule of fees and charges. The term "fee schedule" or "schedule of fees and charges" means the official consolidated list maintained in the city clerk's office that lists rates for utility or other public enterprises, fees of any nature, deposit amounts and various charges as determined from time to time by the city council.
Fire department. The term "fire department" refers to the Fulton County Fire Department or the City of Milton Fire Department, whichever provides services to the city.
Governing body, governing authority. Whenever the term "governing body" or "governing authority" is used, it means the mayor and city council.
Keeper, proprietor. The terms "keeper" and "proprietor" include persons as the term "person" is defined herein, whether acting by themselves or through an agent or employee.
Law. The term "law" means and denotes applicable federal law, the state constitution and statutes, this Code, ordinances and resolutions of the city, and, when appropriate, any and all rules and regulations that may be promulgated thereunder.
Month. The term "month" means a calendar month.
O.C.G.A. The abbreviation "O.C.G.A." refers to the Official Code of Georgia Annotated.
Ordinance. The term "ordinance" means a legislative act of the municipal governing body of a general and permanent nature.
Owner. The term "owner," when applied to a building or land, includes any part owner, joint owner, tenant in common, tenant in partnership, joint tenant or person in possession under a bond for title.
Person. The term "person" extends and is applied to firms, partnerships, associations, organizations, and bodies political and corporate, or any combination thereof, as well as to individuals.
Personal property. The term "personal property" includes every species of property, except real property, as herein defined.
Police. The term "police" refers to the Police Department of the City of Milton.
Preceding, following. The terms "preceding" and "following" mean next before and next after, respectively.
Property. The term "property" includes real and personal property.
Public place. The term "public place" means any park, cemetery, shopping center, schoolyard, or open space adjacent thereto, or any area available and/or accessible to the public, regardless of whether privately or publicly owned.
Real property. The term "real property" includes lands, tenements and hereditaments.
Residence. The term "residence" means the place adopted by a person as his or her place of habitation and to which, whenever he or she is absent, he or she has the intention of returning. When a person eats at one place and sleeps at another, the place where such person sleeps shall be deemed his or her residence.
Resolution. The term "resolution" means a legislative act of the city governing authority of a special or temporary character.
Sidewalk. The term "sidewalk" means any portion of a street between the curbline and the adjacent property line, intended for the use of pedestrians, excluding parkways.
Signature or subscription. The term "signature" or "subscription" includes a mark when the person cannot write.
State. The term "the state" or "this state" means the State of Georgia.
Statute. The term "statute", unless otherwise specifically stated, refers to the indicated portion of the Official Code of Georgia Annotated.
Street. The term "street" includes any public way, road, highway, street, avenue, boulevard, parkway, alley, lane, viaduct, bridge, and the approaches thereto and area owned or dedicated as public right-of-way, within the city.
Tenant, occupant. The terms "tenant" and "occupant," when applied to a building or land, include any person holding a written or oral lease of, or who occupies the whole or a part of, such building or land, either alone or with others.
Week. The term "week" means seven calendar days unless otherwise specified.
Written, in writing. The terms "written" and "in writing" include any representation of words, letters, or figures, whether by printing or otherwise.
Year. The term "year" means a calendar year.
State Law reference— Statutory definitions and rules of construction, O.C.G.A. § 1-3-1 et seq.; construction of statutory definitions, O.C.G.A. § 1-3-2; general statutory definitions, O.C.G.A. § 1-3-3.
Sec. 1-4. - Nonexclusivity of definitions in this chapter.
Terms not defined by this section may be defined elsewhere in this Code.
(Ord. No. 06-11-07, § 1(ch. 1, art. 2, §§ 1, 2), 11-21-2006)
Sec. 1-5. - General penalties; continuing violations; nuisances.
(a)
In this section, the phrase "violation of this Code" means:
(1)
Doing an act that is prohibited or made or declared to be an unlawful act, an offense, or a misdemeanor by ordinance or by rule or regulation authorized by ordinance;
(2)
Failure to perform an act that is required to be performed by ordinance, rule, or regulation authorized by ordinance; or
(3)
Failure to perform an act if the failure is declared a misdemeanor, an offense, or an unlawful omission by ordinance, rule, or regulation authorized by ordinance.
(b)
The phrase "violation of this Code" does not include the failure of a city officer or employee to perform an official duty, unless it is provided that failure to perform the duty is to be punished as provided in this section or it is clear from the context of this Code that it is the intent of the city council to impose the penalty provided for in this section upon the city officer or employee.
(c)
Unless specified elsewhere in the Code, any violation of this Code shall be punishable up to a maximum penalty allowed by state law.
(d)
All fines shall be paid into the city treasury.
(e)
Community service may be substituted for the fine with the rate of hourly work set to that of the Federal Minimum Wage.
(f)
If it is deemed by a court of competent jurisdiction that a punishment imposed under this section conflicts with state law, then state law applies to that particular punishment.
(g)
Except as otherwise provided in this Code, each day that a violation of this Code continues shall constitute a separate offense.
(h)
The imposition of a penalty does not prohibit equitable relief to include stop work orders and temporary restraining orders when applicable.
(i)
The imposition of a penalty does not prohibit revocation or suspension of a license, permit, or franchise or the imposition of other administrative sanctions.
(j)
In addition to the penalties provided in subsection (a) of this section, any condition caused or permitted to exist in violation of any of the provisions of this Code shall be deemed a public nuisance and may be abated by the city, as provided by law, and each day that such condition continues shall be regarded as a new and separate offense.
(Ord. No. 06-11-07, § 1(ch. 1, art. 3, § 1), 11-21-2006)
State Law reference— Maximum penalties that may be imposed by municipalities, O.C.G.A. §§ 36-35-6, 36-32-1, 36-32-5; additional penalties and bond in certain criminal and traffic cases, O.C.G.A. § 15-21-73; authority to impose community service as punishment, O.C.G.A. § 17-10-1; alternative sentences by municipal courts, O.C.G.A. § 36-32-5.
Sec. 1-6. - Exercise of powers.
The powers of the city may be exercised, as provided by the Charter, the city, and the parties with whom the city contracts for municipal services.
(Ord. No. 06-11-07, § 1(ch. 1, art. 4, § 1), 11-21-2006)
Sec. 1-7. - Severability.
It is declared to be the city council's intention that the sections, paragraphs, sentences, clauses and phrases of this Code are severable, and if any phrase, clause, sentence, paragraph or section of this Code shall be declared unconstitutional by the valid judgment or decree of any court of competent jurisdiction, such unconstitutionality shall not affect any of the remaining phrases, clauses, sentences, paragraphs, and sections of this Code.
(Ord. No. 06-11-07, § 1(ch. 1, art. 4, § 2), 11-21-2006)
State Law reference— Severability of state legislation, O.C.G.A. § 1-1-3.
Sec. 1-8. - Catchlines; editorial and other source notes.
(a)
The catchlines of the several sections and subsections of this Code are intended as mere catchwords to indicate the contents of the section and shall not be deemed or taken to be titles of such sections or subsections, nor as any part of the section or subsection, nor unless expressly so provided shall they be so deemed when any of such sections or subsections, including the catchlines, are amended or reenacted.
(b)
The history or source notes appearing in parentheses after sections in this Code are not intended to have any legal effect but are intended merely to indicate the source of matter contained in the section. Editor's notes, Charter references and state law references that appear after sections or subsections of this Code or which otherwise appear in footnote form are provided for the convenience of the user of this Code and have no legal effect.
(Ord. No. 06-11-07, § 1(ch. 1, art. 4, § 3), 11-21-2006)
State Law reference— Notes and catchlines of code sections not part of law, O.C.G.A. § 1-1-7.
Sec. 1-9. - Exclusion of special or temporary ordinances.
Ordinances hereafter adopted which are not of a general or permanent nature shall be numbered consecutively, authenticated, published and recorded in the book of ordinances, but shall not be prepared for insertion in this Code, nor be deemed a part hereof.
Sec. 1-10. - Effect of repeal of ordinances.
(a)
The repeal of an ordinance shall not revive any ordinances in force before or at the time the ordinance repeal took effect.
(b)
The repeal of an ordinance shall not affect any punishment or penalty incurred before the repeal took effect.
(Ord. No. 06-11-07, § 1(ch. 1, art. 4, § 4), 11-21-2006)
Sec. 1-11. - Form of Code; repository; maintenance.
A copy of this Code shall be kept on file in the city clerk's office, preserved in looseleaf form, or in such other form as the clerk may consider most expedient. It shall be the express duty of the clerk or his or her designee to insert in their designated places all resolutions, general resolutions and ordinances that indicate the city council's intention to make the same a part of this Code, when the same have been printed or reprinted in page form, and to extract from this Code all provisions that may be from time to time repealed by the city council. A copy of this Code shall be available in the city clerk's office for examination by all persons.
State Law reference— Inspection of public records, O.C.G.A. § 50-18-70 et seq.; requirements for publication of code, O.C.G.A. § 36-80-19.
Sec. 1-12. - Responsibility of city personnel with respect to assigned copies of Code.
Each city official or employee assigned a copy of this Code shall be responsible for maintaining the same and for the proper insertion of amendatory pages as received. Each such copy shall remain city property and shall be turned over by the official or employee having custody thereof, upon expiration of his or her term of office or employment, to his or her successor or to the city clerk, in case he or she shall have no successor.
Sec. 1-13. - Amendments to Code; effect of new ordinances; amendatory language.
(a)
All ordinances passed subsequent to the passage of the ordinances originally included herein, which amend, repeal or in any way affect this Code, may be numbered in accordance with the numbering system of this Code and added hereto. In the case of repealed chapters, sections and subsections or any part thereof, by subsequent ordinances, such repealed portions may be excluded from the Code by omission from reprinted pages affected thereby.
(b)
Amendments to any of the provisions of this Code may be made by amending such provisions by specific reference to the section number of this Code in the following language: "The Council of the City of Milton hereby ordains that section _____ of The Code of the City of Milton, Georgia, is hereby amended to read as follows: _______." The new provision may then be set out in full as desired.
(c)
In the event a new section not theretofore existing in the Code is to be added, the following language may be used: "The Council of the City of Milton hereby ordains that The Code of the City of Milton, Georgia, is hereby amended by adding a section (or article or chapter) to be numbered _____, which said section (or article or chapter) reads as follows: _______." The new section (or article or chapter) may then be set out in full as desired.
(d)
All sections, articles, chapters, or provisions desired to be repealed shall be specifically repealed by section, article or chapter number, as the case may be.
(Ord. No. 06-11-07, § 1(ch. 1, art. 4, § 5), 11-21-2006)
Sec. 1-14. - Supplementation of Code.
(a)
By contract or by city personnel, supplements to this Code shall be prepared and printed whenever authorized or directed by the city council. A supplement to this Code shall include all substantive, permanent and general parts of ordinances passed by the city council or adopted by initiative and referendum during the period covered by the supplement and all changes made thereby in this Code. The pages of a supplement shall be so numbered that they will fit properly into this Code and will, where necessary, replace pages which have become obsolete or partially obsolete. The new pages shall be so prepared that, when they have been inserted, this Code will be current through the date of the adoption of the latest ordinance included in the supplement. Charter amendments may be included in like manner.
(b)
In the preparation of a supplement to this Code, all portions of the Code which have been repealed shall be excluded from this Code by the omission thereof from reprinted pages.
(c)
When preparing a supplement to this Code, the codifier (meaning the person, agency or organization authorized to prepare the supplement) may make formal, nonsubstantive changes in ordinances and parts of ordinances included in the supplement, insofar as it is necessary to do so to embody them into a unified Code. For example, the codifier may:
(1)
Organize the ordinance material into appropriate subdivisions;
(2)
Provide appropriate catchlines, headings and titles for sections and other subdivisions of this Code printed in the supplement, and make changes in such catchlines, headings and titles;
(3)
Assign appropriate numbers to sections and other subdivisions to be inserted in this Code and, where necessary to accommodate new material, change existing section or other subdivision numbers;
(4)
Change the term "this ordinance" or words of the same meaning to "this chapter," "this article," "this division," etc., as the case may be, or to "sections _____ through _____" (inserting section numbers to indicate the sections of the Code which embody the substantive sections of the ordinance incorporated into the Code); and
(5)
Make other nonsubstantive changes necessary to preserve the original meaning of ordinance sections inserted into this Code; but, in no case shall the codifier make any change in the meaning or effect of ordinance material included in the supplement or already embodied in the Code.
(Ord. No. 06-11-07, § 1(ch. 1, art. 4, § 6), 11-21-2006)
Sec. 1-15. - Provisions considered as continuation of existing ordinances.
The provisions appearing in this Code, so far as they are substantially the same as ordinances existing at the time of the effective date of this Code, shall be considered continuations thereof and not as new enactments.
(Ord. No. 06-11-07, § 1(ch. 1, art. 4, § 7), 11-21-2006)
Sec. 1-16. - Altering Code, ordinance or other public document.
(a)
It shall be unlawful for any person in the city to change or amend by additions or deletions any part of this Code, or to insert or delete pages or portions thereof, or to alter or tamper with such Code in any manner whatsoever which will cause the law of the city to be misrepresented thereby.
(b)
It shall be unlawful for any person to deface, mutilate, or in any other manner alter any ordinance book or minute book, or any notice posted by the city for the benefit of the public, or any other document or record of the city municipal government.
(Ord. No. 06-11-07, § 1(ch. 1, art. 4, § 8), 11-21-2006)
State Law reference— Altering, falsifying, or stealing public records unlawful, O.C.G.A. § 45-11-1.
Sec. 1-17. - Certain ordinances not affected by Code.
Nothing in this Code or the ordinance adopting this Code shall be construed to repeal or otherwise affect the validity of any of the following:
(1)
Any rates, fees or charges consistent with this Code;
(2)
Any ordinance promising or guaranteeing the payment of money for the city, or authorizing the issuance of any bonds for the city or any evidence of the city's indebtedness, or any contract or obligation assumed by the city;
(3)
Any ordinance consistent with this Code prescribing traffic regulations for specific locations, such as prescribing through streets, parking limitations, parking prohibitions, one-way traffic or limitations on loads of vehicles or loading zones;
(4)
Any ordinance consistent with this Code fixing salaries of, or providing policies and programs for, providing retirement, disability or death benefits for, officials, officers or employees of the city;
(5)
Any budget ordinance or appropriation ordinance; any ordinance levying any tax;
(6)
Any right or franchise granted by any ordinance or resolution;
(7)
Any ordinance dedicating, naming, establishing, locating, relocating, opening, closing, paving, widening or vacating any street or public way in the city;
(8)
Any ordinance establishing and prescribing the street grades of any street in the city;
(9)
Any ordinance providing for local improvements or assessing taxes therefor;
(10)
Any ordinance dedicating or accepting any plat or subdivision in the city;
(11)
Any ordinance establishing or changing the city boundary;
(12)
Any zoning ordinance or any ordinance regulating subdivisions or any ordinance regulating signs or any ordinance regulating building design standards;
(13)
Any city resolution not in conflict with this Code;
all such ordinances are hereby recognized as continuing in full force and effect to the same extent as if set out at length in this Code.
(Ord. No. 06-11-07, § 1(ch. 1, art. 4, § 9), 11-21-2006)
Sec. 1-18. - Effect of references to prior code sections.
References in city forms, documents, citations and regulations to the chapters and sections of the former city code shall be constructed to apply to the corresponding provisions contained within this Code.
(Ord. No. 06-11-07, § 1(ch. 1, art. 4, § 10), 11-21-2006)
Sec. 1-19. - Conflicting regulations.
(a)
If the provisions of different chapters conflict with each other, the provisions of each individual chapter shall control all issues arising out of the events and persons intended to be governed by that chapter.
(b)
If the provisions of different sections of the same chapter conflict with each other, the provision which is more specific in its application to the events or persons raising the conflict shall control over the more general provision.
(c)
If any of the provisions hereof conflict, and the conflict cannot be resolved by application of subsections (a) and (b) of this section, the more stringent regulation shall apply and the specific provision shall prevail over the general.
Sec. 1-20. - Fee schedule; fees established by resolution.
The city maintains a schedule of fees for permits, licenses, and other municipal charges. The amount of fees or charges imposed by the city, including, but not limited to, those encompassed in the city's fee schedule, shall be established from time to time by resolution of the city council, as it deems necessary.
