ARTICLE VII. - WHOLESALERS
DIVISION 1. - GENERALLY

Sec. 4-200. - License required.
(a)
Any wholesale dealer in alcoholic beverages who is licensed by the State of Georgia and who has a place of business in the city shall procure a license under the same distance requirements and required hours and days of operation applicable to retail package licensees. The license fee for a resident wholesale dealer's license shall be set by the city council and approved by resolution.
(b)
Any wholesale dealer in alcoholic beverages who is licensed by the State of Georgia, who does not have a place of business in the city but who does business in the city, shall be registered in the city and subject to excise tax due from wholesale dealers pursuant to article VIII. Such registration shall be renewed annually with:
(1)
Submittal of annual renewal affidavit;
(2)
The presentation of satisfactory evidence that he understands the alcoholic beverage rules and regulations of the city and the conditions under which retail licenses are issued; and
(3)
A registration fee of $100.00 as authorized by O.C.G.A. § 3-5-43.
( Ord. No. 20-12-462 , § 1(Exh. A), 12-21-2020)
Sec. 4-201. - Special provisions applicable to wholesale license.
(a)
Except as may be authorized under state law, no person who has any direct financial interest in any license for retail sale of any alcoholic beverages in the city shall be allowed to have any interest or ownership in any wholesale alcoholic beverage license issued by the city.
(b)
No retailer shall purchase any alcoholic beverage from any person other than a wholesaler licensed under this chapter. No wholesaler shall sell any alcoholic beverage to any person other than a retailer licensed under this chapter; provided, however, that this section shall not prohibit the purchase by one retailer of another retailer's entire stock in a bona fide purchase of an ongoing business.
(c)
No alcoholic beverage shall be delivered to any retail sales outlet in the city except by a duly licensed wholesaler. The name of the wholesale distributor shall be clearly marked on the delivery vehicle.
( Ord. No. 20-12-462 , § 1(Exh. A), 12-21-2020)
Sec. 4-202. - Audits.
If the city manager deems it necessary to conduct an audit of the wholesaler licensee's records and books, he or she shall notify the licensee of the date, time and place of the audit.
( Ord. No. 20-12-462 , § 1(Exh. A), 12-21-2020)
Secs. 4-203—4-222. - Reserved.
