DIVISION 18. - SOLICITATION OF CONTRIBUTIONS ON STREETS AND HIGHWAYS BY CHARITABLE ORGANIZATIONS

Sec. 12-616. - Registration and permit; qualifications.
(a)
Registration and permit. Any person who wishes to organize, form, or conduct a solicitation of contribution on streets and highways within the City shall be required to apply for a permit for such activity at least seven days in advance of the date on which the solicitation shall take place and to obtain a permit therefor. A separate application shall be required for each day of soliciting.
(b)
Qualifications. In order to receive such permit, the applicant must produce evidence satisfactory to the City Police Chief or his designee that the organization is a charitable organization registered in accordance with O.C.G.A. § 43-17-5 or is a charitable organization exempt from such registration in accordance with O.C.G.A. § 43-l7-9. The Police Chief or his designee shall not process any application which does not contain certification of the registration or exemption of the charitable organization.
(Code 2005, § 32-223(1), (2))
Sec. 12-617. - Application; review of application; disposition; waiver.
(a)
Application. The application for a permit to conduct such solicitation shall be made to the Police Chief in writing, shall be signed by the person responsible for supervising the solicitation, and shall contain the following information:
(1)
The proposed date and time of the solicitation;
(2)
The proposed location of the solicitation;
(3)
The number of persons who are expected to participate in the solicitation, the name and address of each participant, and an executed agreement from each participant agreeing to hold harmless and indemnify the City;
(4)
The name and address of the person or organization sponsoring or promoting the proposed solicitation;
(5)
A certificate of insurance demonstrating that the organization sponsoring or promoting the proposed solicitation maintains general liability insurance in an amount not less than $1,000,000.00, together with a certificate showing the City of Lawrenceville as a holder of the policy or an additional named insured;
(6)
The name, address and phone number of the person making the application for a permit.
(b)
Review of application. The Police Chief or his designee shall review the information set forth in the application and ascertain the following: the extent of vehicular and pedestrian traffic anticipated at the time and place and on the route of the proposed solicitation; whether or not, in light of all circumstances the proposed solicitation will reasonably burden or interfere with the normal use of the streets or sidewalks of the City by the general public. The Police Chief shall consider the risk involved in soliciting to the participants and to others using the streets of the City in the selected areas.
(c)
Disposition. In the event the Police Chief determines, in view of all the circumstances, that the proposed solicitation will unreasonably burden and interfere with the normal use of the streets or sidewalks of the City by the general public, he shall deny the request for a permit. If he determines on the contrary that the proposed solicitation will not unreasonably burden or interfere with the normal use of the streets or sidewalks of the City by the general public, he may grant the permit. In either case, the Police Chief or his designee shall indicate his disposition on the application in writing and shall notify the applicant of the action taken.
(d)
Waiver. The Police Chief, in his discretion, may waive any of the foregoing requirements of the application.
(Code 2005, § 32-223(3)—(6))
Sec. 12-618. - Conduct during solicitation.
Each person participating in the solicitation shall wear reflective clothing and shall wear vests, hats or other material to identify the group soliciting. The applicant shall further post adequate notices at least 500 feet in front of the solicitation warning oncoming vehicular traffic of the presence of the solicitation.
(Code 2005, § 32-223(7))
Sec. 12-619. - Revocation of permit.
Every permit issued under this division is subject to the right, which is hereby expressly reserved, to revoke the same should any solicitation occur contrary to the provisions of this division, any other ordinance of the City of Lawrenceville, the laws of the State of Georgia, or the public safety and welfare as determined by the Police Chief of his designee.
(Code 2005, § 32-223(8))
Sec. 12-620. - Penalty.
Any applicant, participant, person or organization violating the provisions of this division, in addition to the revocation of his or its license, shall be liable for a fine or penalty not less than $200.00 no more than $1,000.00 for each offense and up to six months of imprisonment.
(Code 2005, § 32-223(9))
Sec. 12-621. - Repeal of conflicting laws.
All existing ordinances of the City of Lawrenceville are hereby repealed insofar as they may be inconsistent with the provisions of this division.
(Code 2005, § 32-223(10))
Secs. 12-622—12-645. - Reserved.
