ARTICLE I. - IN GENERAL

Sec. 12-1. - Applications.
Every person required to procure a license under the provisions of this chapter or any ordinance or law of this Municipality shall submit an application for such license to the City Clerk, which application shall conform to the requirements of this section.
(1)
Form of application. Each application shall be a written statement upon forms provided by the City Clerk.
(2)
Contents of application. Each application shall contain the following information:
a.
Name and home address of the applicant, if an individual, or home address if a corporation or partnership;
b.
Place where the proposed business is to be located;
c.
Kind of business to be carried on;
d.
Name and home address of the owner or president, if a corporation;
e.
Such additional information which the City Clerk or City Council may find reasonably necessary to the fair administration of this chapter.
(3)
Verification. Each application shall be sworn to by the applicant, if an individual, or by a partner, if a partnership, or by an officer, if a corporation.
(4)
Payment of fee.
a.
Fee required. Each application shall be accompanied by the amount of the fee chargeable for such license.
b.
Issuance of receipts. The City Clerk shall issue a receipt to the applicant for the amount of the fee tendered with the application for a license, provided that such receipt shall not be construed as approval of the application, nor shall it entitle or authorize the applicant to open or maintain any business contrary to the provisions of this chapter.
(5)
False statements. False statements on any application for a license shall be grounds for immediate revocation of such license.
(6)
Eligibility. In order to receive a professional or commercial license issued by the City, each applicant must submit a sworn affidavit attesting to the affiant's immigration status. The status of applicants who swear by affidavit to be a qualified alien or nonimmigrant under the federal Immigration and Nationality Act will also be verified through the Systematic Alien Verification of Entitlement (SAVE) Program.
(Code 2005, § 32-101; Ord. of 12-1-2008)
Sec. 12-2. - Procedure for issuance.
(a)
Review by Clerk. The City Clerk shall be designated the Reviewing Officer for review of an application for a license. The City Clerk shall have within 48 hours of the time of the receipt of the application to either grant or deny the license. If the application is denied, the applicant shall have ten days to appeal this decision to the City Council at the next regularly scheduled public meeting.
(b)
Clerk discretion. The granting of a business license under the provisions of this chapter shall be deemed a privilege only, and nothing contained in this chapter shall be construed as granting any person whose business is subject to municipal regulation any legal right to engage in such business.
(Code 2005, § 32-102)
Sec. 12-3. - Display of license.
It shall be the duty of any person conducting a licensed business in the City to keep his license posted in a conspicuous place on the premises used for such business at all times.
(Code 2005, § 32-103)
Sec. 12-4. - Inspections.
(a)
Search of premises. Whenever inspections of the premises used for, or in connection with, the operation of a licensed business or occupation are provided for or required by ordinance, or are reasonably necessary to secure compliance with any ordinance provision or to detect violation thereof, it shall by the duty of the licensee, or the person in charge of the premises to be inspected, to admit thereto for the purpose of making the inspection any officer or employee of the City who is authorized or directed to make such inspection at any reasonable time that admission is requested.
(b)
Testing of material. Whenever an analysis of any commodity or material is reasonably necessary to secure conformance with any ordinance provision or to detect violations thereof, it shall be the duty of the licensee of the Municipality whose business is governed by such provision to give to any authorized officer or employee of the City requesting the same sufficient samples of such material or commodity for such analysis.
(c)
Refusal to allow inspection. In addition to any other penalty which may be provided, the City Manager, or City Clerk if so designated, may revoke the license of any licensed proprietor of a licensed business in the City who refuses to permit any officer or employee who is authorized to make such inspection or take such sample to make the inspection, or take an adequate sample of the said commodity, or who interferes with such officer or employee while in the performance of his duty in making such inspection, provided that no license shall be revoked for such cause unless written demand is made upon the licensee or person in charge of the premises, in the name of the City, stating that such inspection or sample is desired at the time it is sought to make the inspection or obtain the sample.
(Code 2005, § 32-104)
Sec. 12-5. - Termination and renewal of license.
(a)
Termination. All annual licenses shall terminate on the last day of the calendar year of the City when no provision to the contrary is made.
(b)
Invoice for renewal. Each licensee shall be invoiced by November 1 for the next year's license fee and fees shall be due by December 31 each year.
(c)
Moving or closing. If a permitted business moves outside City limits or closes, the applicant shall notify the city in writing of this change within ten business days.
(Code 2005, § 32-105)
Sec. 12-6. - Revocation, suspension, etc.
The City Council, after affording the licensee notice of the charges and opportunity to be heard with respect to any revocation proceeding, may, if it finds this chapter to have been violated by the licensee, his agent, or employee, revoke such license in its entirety, suspend the same for a specified period of time, place the licensee on probation, or place other conditions thereon as the City Council may deem necessary.
(Code 2005, § 32-106)
Sec. 12-7. - Change of location.
In the absence of any provision to the contrary, the location of any licensed business or occupation may be changed, provided that ten days notice thereof is given to the City Clerk, and provided that all building and zoning requirements are complied with.
(Code 2005, § 32-107)
Sec. 12-8. - Transfer of license.
All licenses shall be personal to the licensee to whom issued and shall not be transferable.
(Code 2005, § 32-108)
Sec. 12-9. - Duplicate license.
A duplicate license shall be issued by the City Clerk to replace a previously issued license which has been lost, stolen, defaced, or destroyed without any willful conduct on the part of the licensee, upon the filing of a sworn affidavit attesting to such fact, and the payment of a fee of $10.00 to the City Clerk.
(Code 2005, § 32-109)
Sec. 12-10. - Branch offices.
For the purposes of this chapter, each branch, establishment or location wherein a representative of the owner is employed and is authorized to transact business for such owner shall be deemed a separate place of business for which a separate license shall be required, provided that warehouses and distributing plants used in connection with and incidental to a business licensed under the provisions of this chapter shall not be deemed to be separate places of business or branch offices.
(Code 2005, § 32-110)
Sec. 12-11. - Due dates; late fees.
(a)
Except for insurance companies, a late fee of $25.00 shall be assessed for payments not received by December 31 preceding the calendar year for which the business license applies. If any such fee is not paid by January 31 of the calendar year for which the business license applies, the business license shall be terminated for nonpayment of the fee.
(b)
Each insurance company shall pay the requisite business license fee by June 30 of the calendar year for which the license applies. Insurance companies shall be ineligible to renew their business licenses for the following calendar year unless and until the business license fee for the previous calendar year is paid in full.
(Code 2005, § 32-111)
Sec. 12-12. - Penalty.
Any person who shall conduct a business or occupation without having obtained a license therefor or paid the required occupation tax as required by this chapter, or who shall violate any other provisions of this chapter, shall, upon conviction therefor, be punished by a fine not to exceed $1,000.00 and cost, or by imprisonment not to exceed six months, or both, any and all of such penalties to be imposed in the discretion of the Judge of the Municipal Court.
(Code 2005, § 32-112)
Secs. 12-13—12-42. - Reserved.
