CHAPTER 32E. - NC-5 CHESHIRE BRIDGE ROAD SOUTH NEIGHBORHOOD COMMERCIAL DISTRICT

Sec. 16-32E.001. - Scope of provisions.
The regulations set forth in this chapter, or set forth elsewhere in this part, when referred to in this chapter, are the regulations for the NC-5 Cheshire Bridge Road South Neighborhood Commercial District. The general NC district regulations shall apply to this NC-5 district except where said NC-5 district regulations conflict with the general NC regulations, said NC-5 regulations shall apply.
(Ord. No. 2005-32, § 1, 1-10-05)
Sec. 16-32E.002. - Specific regulations.
The following regulations are specific to the NC-5 Cheshire Bridge Road South Neighborhood Commercial District.
1.
Reserved.
2.
Special Use Permits: Retail establishments between 8,000 square feet and 15,000 square feet in floor area.
3.
Special Administrative Permits:
a.
Variations in street tree requirements. Variations are subject to constraints such as overhead or underground utilities.
b.
Demolition and relocation of existing retail establishments that exceed 8,000 square feet into a new structure, provided that there is no increase in total floor area of the establishment.
c.
Applicant shall provide notice by certified mail to NPU F upon submittal of an SAP application for parking structures or lots to serve primary uses within the district.
4.
Street furniture and tree planting zone: Along Cheshire Bridge Road the street furniture and tree planting zone shall be landscaped except where on-street parking is provided, and shall have a minimum width of ten feet adjacent to curb. On-street parking may be placed in the street furniture zoned, provided that street trees are installed in bulb-outs located at intervals within the area used for on-street parking, as approved by the Bureau of Planning.
5.
Outdoor dining within required sidewalk: outdoor dining may encroach into the sidewalk clear zone provided the following criteria are met:
a.
Shall have a minimum of eight feet wide of unobstructed sidewalk clear zone area when located adjacent to the street furniture and tree planting zone;
b.
No permanent structure or ornamentation shall be located within the area where encroachment is permitted and no element shall be attached to the sidewalk in any way;
c.
At such time as the outdoor dining use is discontinued, sidewalks shall comply with all requirements of this Chapter; and
d.
Outdoor dining may be separated from the sidewalk only with movable planters, fencing or similar non-fixed barriers provided they do not exceed a height of 36 inches including any plant material.
6.
Minimum Off-street Parking Requirements:
a.
Banks and similar institutions: One space for each 300 square feet of floor area.
b.
Clothing and tailor shops: One space for each 300 square feet of floor area.
c.
Laundry and dry cleaning pick-up stations and coin operated laundromats: One space for each 300 square feet of floor area.
d.
Retail establishments, including catering, delicatessen and bakeries, but not other uses as provided below: One space for each 300 square feet of floor area.
e.
Sales and repair establishments for home appliances, bicycles, lawn mowers, shoes, clocks and watches, and the like: One space for each 300 square feet of floor area.
(Ord. No. 2005-32, § 1, 1-10-05; Ord. No. 2022-34(22-O-1465) , §§ 1, 2, 10-12-22)
