Chapter 50 - CIVIL EMERGENCIES[1]
Footnotes:
--- (1) ---
Cross reference— Functions and duties of office of emergency management, § 2-235.
Land development code reference—Construction of family fallout shelters, § 8-2077.
State Law reference— Constitutional grant of home rule powers, Ga. Const. art. IX, § II; statutory grant of home rule powers, O.C.G.A. § 36-35-1 et seq.

ARTICLE I. - IN GENERAL

Secs. 50-1—50-25. - Reserved.
ARTICLE II. - EMERGENCY MANAGEMENT[2]

Footnotes:
--- (2) ---
Charter reference— Office of emergency management, app. IV, § 60.
State Law reference— Emergency management, O.C.G.A. § 38-3-1 et seq.; local organizations for emergency management, O.C.G.A. § 38-3-27.

Sec. 50-26. - Definitions.
The following words, terms and phrases, when used in this article, shall have the meanings ascribed to them in this section, except where the context clearly indicates a different meaning:
Emergency management means the preparation for and the carrying out of all emergency functions, other than functions for which military forces are primarily responsible, to prevent, minimize and repair injury and damage resulting from emergencies or disasters or imminent threat thereof of manmade or natural origin caused by enemy attack, sabotage, civil disturbance, fire, flood, earthquake, wind, storm, wave action, oil spill or other water contaminations requiring emergency action to avert danger or damage, epidemic, air contamination, blight, drought, infestation, explosion, riot or other hostile action or other causes. These functions include, without limitation, firefighting services, police services, medical and health services, rescue, engineering, warning services, communications, defense from radiological, chemical and other special weapons, evacuation of persons from stricken areas, emergency welfare services, emergency transportation, plant protection, temporary restoration of public utility services and other functions related to civilian protection, together with all other activities necessary or incidental to the preparation for and carrying out of such functions.
(Code 1977, § 11-4002)
Cross reference— Definitions generally, § 1-2.
Sec. 50-27. - Policy and purpose.
Because of the possibility of the occurrence of emergencies or disasters resulting from manmade or natural causes or enemy attack and in order to ensure that preparations of the city will be adequate to deal with such emergencies or disasters and generally to provide for the common defense and to protect the public peace, health and safety; to preserve the lives and property of the people of the city; and to carry out the functions, duties and responsibilities contained in the Federal Civil Defense Act of 1950 (PL 81-920) and the Georgia Emergency Management Act of 1981 (O.C.G.A. § 38-3-1 et seq.), it is found and declared to be necessary to:
(1)
Create an office of emergency management.
(2)
Authorize this office to take such steps as are necessary and appropriate to carry out this article so that all emergency management functions for the city are coordinated to the maximum practical extent with the comparable functions of the state and its political subdivisions, of the federal government including its various departments and agencies, of other states and localities and of private agencies of every type, to the end that the most effective preparation and use may be made of the available manpower, resources and facilities in dealing with any emergency or disaster that may occur.
(Code 1977, § 11-4001)
Sec. 50-28. - Agency designated.
The Atlanta-Fulton County emergency management agency is designated as the office of emergency management to carry out all emergency management functions for the city in accordance with the Federal Civil Defense Act of 1950 and the Georgia Emergency Management Act of 1981 (O.C.G.A. § 38-3-1 et seq.), as amended.
(Code 1977, § 11-4003)
Cross reference— Administration, ch. 2.
Sec. 50-29. - Appointment of director of emergency management.
(a)
The office of emergency management shall be under the direction and control of a director of emergency management who shall be appointed by the governor upon nomination by the mayor and the chair of the Fulton County board of commissioners, in accordance with the laws of the state.
(b)
The director of emergency management is also designated the disaster coordinator for the city with Fulton County.
(Code 1977, § 11-4004)
Sec. 50-30. - Policy development and implementation.
(a)
The office of emergency management and the director of emergency management shall operate under policies established by the fire chief and police chief. The director of emergency management shall be directly responsible to the fire chief and police chief and shall serve as the director of emergency planning for the city, to include planning required for the management of resources and economic stabilization in an enemy attack; planning required for mitigation, response and recovery operations for natural disasters; and coordination of emergency planning with state and federal planning agencies.
(b)
The director of emergency management shall serve as the senior liaison officer between the city, the state emergency management agency and state and federal military forces.
(Code 1977, § 11-4005)
Sec. 50-31. - Powers, duties of director.
The director of emergency management is authorized and directed to:
(1)
Represent the city in all matters pertaining to emergency management;
(2)
Utilize all bureau and department heads and all municipal officers of the city in the preparation and implementation of emergency management plans and coordinate them into an effective plan of operation;
(3)
Assist city officials in planning the organization of city departments for emergency operations;
(4)
Develop and maintain emergency management plans, in conjunction with city departments, for emergency functions in consonance with state and federal emergency plans and implement these plans in any such emergency;
(5)
Establish an emergency management plan for the continuity of city government in an enemy attack or other emergency;
(6)
Maintain and, where feasible, improve public fallout shelters and the attack warning system; maintain a community shelter plan and a crisis relocation plan in readiness for publication on short notice; train fallout shelter managers and radiological monitoring personnel; take such other readiness steps toward preparedness against enemy attack as are prudent and practical; and institute equivalent readiness measures and planning against manmade and natural disasters;
(7)
Maintain an adequate emergency communications system encompassing all city departments and other agencies and an emergency operations center; and
(8)
Establish and maintain an organization of sufficient staff and operating agencies to implement approved emergency plans, set forth in sections 50-32 and 50-33.
(Code 1977, § 11-4006)
Sec. 50-32. - Organization and services.
The emergency management organization shall consist of governmental and voluntary emergency services. The chief officer of a governmental service unit shall be the head of the department or bureau providing the service as an emergency management function. Directors of volunteer services shall be chosen by the director of emergency management. Services shall include but not be limited to the following:
(1)
Governmental services:
EXPAND
a. Police service City
b. Fire and light rescue City department of fire and Fulton County fire department
c. Engineering services and heavy rescue Department of public works of city and department of city planning of Fulton County
d. Supply Bureau of purchasing and real estate of city and purchasing department of Fulton County
e. Radiological defense
f. Health and medical Fulton County
g. Welfare
  (2)
Volunteer and industry-provided services:
a.
Communications
b.
Emergency public information
c.
Transportation
(3)
Emergency management services:
a.
Attack warning (city department of police implements)
b.
Logistics (resources management)
c.
Shelter planning
d.
Training and education
e.
Administration.
(Code 1977, § 11-4008; Ord. No. 2017-14(17-O-1157), § 8, 4-26-17)
Sec. 50-33. - Additional duties of director.
The director of emergency management shall, with respect to emergency management services:
(1)
Coordinate the operations and actions of all services in time of emergency and control all these operations to the extent authorized by applicable law;
(2)
Maintain a permanent staff sufficient to carry out the duties and responsibilities of the department and ensure that the staff is professionally trained and fully qualified;
(3)
Ensure that an adequate emergency operations center (EOC) is available and properly equipped as needed for the conduct of emergency operations;
(4)
Through coordination with the state emergency management agency and federal emergency management agency, ensure that city plans and activities are consistent with state and federal guidelines;
(5)
Prepare and periodically update the basic emergency operations plan, to include an annex (plan) for each service which shall be prepared and authenticated by the service chief; and
(6)
Plan and implement preparedness measures in readiness for implementation.
(Code 1977, § 11-4009)
Sec. 50-34. - Budget, financial records.
(a)
The director of emergency management shall be the chief executive officer and responsible administrator of the office of emergency management.
(b)
The director of emergency management shall prepare all budgets to meet operating and administrative expenses and shall operate the office of emergency management in accordance with the approved budget appropriations of the city and Fulton County to include anticipated federal matching funds, as projected by state emergency management division, department of public defense, with staff pay based upon an approved emergency management staffing pattern and pay scales of the state merit system.
(c)
Financial records, personnel and administration records and such other records as are desired shall be subject to audit at any time by designated city and/or county officials. An annual audit of the financial records shall be conducted by the city and/or county.
(Code 1977, § 11-4010)
