Chapter 82 - PERSONNEL[1]
Footnotes:
--- (1) ---
Editor's note— By agreement dated November 3, 1987, the county elected to become a participating employer in the Association County Commissioners of Georgia restated pension plan. Official copies of such agreement and pension plan are on file in the office of the clerk of the board of commissioners.
Cross reference— Alcoholic beverages, ch. 6; human relations, ch. 70.
State Law reference— Authority to maintain and modify retirement or pension systems, Ga. Const. art. IX, § II, ¶ III(a)(14); social security coverage for employees of the state and political subdivisions of the state, O.C.G.A. § 47-18-1 et seq.; Public Retirement Systems Standards Law, O.C.G.A. § 47-20-1 et seq.

ARTICLE I. - IN GENERAL

Sec. 82-1. - Workers' compensation coverage for certain officials.
Certain elected officials of the county shall be covered under the Association of County Commissioners of Georgia Group Self-Insured Workers' Compensation Fund. While performing their elected duties the board of commissioners, sheriff, probate judge, clerk of court, magistrate judge, state court judge, state court solicitor, volunteer firefighters, coroner and volunteer law enforcement officers who have passed the state requirements for police training shall be covered under the workers' compensation laws of the state.
(Res. of 12-7-87, § I)
Sec. 82-2. - Position and office of child support receiver established.
There is established in the county an office of the receiver of child support. There is hereby established in the county the position of child support receiver.
(Res. of 3-3-86)
Secs. 82-3—82-30. - Reserved.
ARTICLE II. - DRUG-FREE WORKPLACE POLICY[2]

Footnotes:
--- (2) ---
State Law reference— Random drug testing of state employees in high-risk jobs, O.C.G.A. § 45-20-90 et seq.; Drug-Free Public Work Force Act of 1990, O.C.G.A. § 45-23-1 et seq.

Sec. 82-31. - Enunciation.
(a)
The United States Congress has recently enacted the Drug-Free Workplace Act of 1988. The purpose of this resolution is to ensure that work done under federal contracts or federal grants is performed in a drug-free work environment.
(b)
In addition to prohibiting employees from engaging in the unlawful manufacture, distribution, dispensation, possession, or use of illegal drugs in the workplace, the county prohibits its employees from engaging in such illegal activity at all times and at all places. Such activity, even during nonworking hours, clearly affects an employee's ability to perform his public duties. Therefore, the county adopts the following as its drug-free policy:
(1)
No employee of the county may illegally engage in the manufacture, distribution, dispensation, possession, or use of a controlled substance at any time or place, including while at his workplace. Such unlawful activity will be considered a sufficient ground for a serious adverse personnel action, including dismissal from employment.
(2)
If an employee is arrested for or convicted, including a plea of nolo contendere, of violating any criminal drug statute of any jurisdiction, regardless of whether the alleged violation occurred at the workplace or elsewhere, the employee must notify the board of commissioners' office in writing of each arrest or conviction as soon as possible, which must be within five calendar days of the arrest or conviction.
(3)
Failure to comply with any part of this policy will result in serious adverse personnel action, including possible dismissal from employment.
Any questions concerning this policy should be directed to the board of commissioners' office.
(Res. of 9-14-89, §§ I—III)
Sec. 82-32. - Drug testing required for applicants for employment.
Drug testing for illegal drugs for final applicants for employment with the county is required.
(Mo. of 3-12-90(2))
Sec. 82-33. - Provisions for drug-free workplace.
The county will provide a drug-free workplace by doing the following:
(1)
Publishing a statement notifying its employees that the unlawful manufacture, distribution, dispensing, possession or use of a controlled substance is prohibited in the contractor's workplace and specifying the actions that will be taken against employees for violations of such prohibition.
(2)
Establishing a drug-free awareness program to inform its employees about:
a.
The dangers of drug abuse in the workplace;
b.
The agency/organization's policy of maintaining a drug-free workplace;
c.
Any available drug counseling, rehabilitation and employee assistance programs; and
d.
The penalties that may be imposed upon employees for drug abuse violations occurring in the workplace.
(3)
Provide all employees engaged in performance of federally funded public transportation work with a copy of the statement required in subsection (1) of this section.
(4)
Notify all employees in the statement required in subsection (1) of this section that the employee will:
a.
Abide by the terms of the statement; and
b.
Notify the employer of any criminal drug statute conviction for a violation occurring in the workplace no later than five days after such conviction.
(5)
Notify the state department of transportation within ten days after receiving notice under subsection (4)b. of this section, from an employee or otherwise receiving actual notice of such conviction. Within 30 days after receiving notice under subsection (4) of this section of a conviction, imposing the following sanctions or remedial measures on any employee who is convicted of drug abuse in the workplace:
a.
Taking appropriate personnel action against such employee up to and including termination; or
b.
Requiring such employee to satisfactorily participate in a drug abuse assistance or rehabilitation program approved for such purposes by federal, state, or local health, law enforcement or other appropriate agency.
(6)
Making a good faith effort to maintain a drug-free workplace through implementation of subsections (1)—(6) of this section.
(Mo. of 4-10-89)
Secs. 82-34—82-55. - Reserved.
ARTICLE III. - PERSONNEL ADMINISTRATION[3]

Footnotes:
--- (3) ---
State Law reference— Expenditure of county funds for insurance and employment benefits, O.C.G.A. § 36-1-11.1; employment of additional temporary personnel and equipment for assistance of county officers or departments, O.C.G.A. § 36-1-11; civil service system for county employees authorized, Ga. Const. art. IX, § II, ¶ I; O.C.G.A. § 36-1-21.

Sec. 82-56. - Provisions saved from repeal.
The county's rules and regulations of personnel administration, as adopted by resolution dated November 1, 1976, together with all amendments, and the policy regarding employee personal usage of vehicles belonging to the county, as adopted by resolution dated January 6, 1986, are not repealed and shall continue in full force and effect pending a revision of the subject matter by the county.
