Chapter 74 - MANUFACTURED HOMES AND TRAILERS[1]
Footnotes:
--- (1) ---
Cross reference— Buildings and building regulations, ch. 22; businesses, ch. 26; floods, ch. 62; health and sanitation, ch. 66; planning, ch. 86; subdivisions, ch. 98; taxation, ch. 102; utilities, ch. 110; zoning, app. A.
State Law reference— Registration and licensing of dealers, manufacturers and persons transporting mobile homes, O.C.G.A. § 40-2-38; removal of transportable housing from lands subject to writ of possession, O.C.G.A. § 44-7-59; ad valorem taxation of mobile homes, O.C.G.A. § 48-5-440 et seq.; issuance of mobile home location permits; display of decals, O.C.G.A. § 48-5-492; the Uniform Standards Code for Manufactured Homes Act, O.C.G.A. § 8-2-130 et seq.; classification of mobile homes as a separate class of property for ad valorem property tax purposes, Ga. Const. art. VII, § I, ¶ III.

ARTICLE I. - IN GENERAL

Sec. 74-1. - Installation of water service; owner/operator and county responsibilities.
Mobile home park owners or operators who desire county water service are required to pay for installation of water service lines and meters to individual trailer spaces/lots, and the owner/operator is required to provide construction and maintenance easement, the dimensions to be determined by the county water superintendent. Materials will be ordered and construction scheduled upon receipt by the county of the full amount of the estimated installation costs.
(Mo. of 3-14-94)
Sec. 74-2. - Moving manufactured/mobile homes.
(1)
Title. This section shall be known as and may be cited as the "Manufactured/Mobile Home Moving Ordinance."
(2)
Definitions.
(a)
Manufactured home means a new or used structure, transportable in one or more sections, which in the traveling mode, when erected on site, is 400 or more square feet and which is built on a permanent chassis and designed to be used as a dwelling unit with or without a permanent foundation when connected to the required utilities and includes the plumbing, heating, air conditioning and electrical systems contained therein; except that such term shall include any structure which meets all requirements of this paragraph except the size requirements and with respect to which the manufacturer voluntarily files a certification required by the secretary of housing and urban development and complies with the standards established under the National Manufactured Housing Construction and Safety Standards Act of 1974, 42 U.S.C. Section 5401 et seq. For the purpose of the administration of this section, the term "manufactured home" shall not be interpreted to include mobile homes. For the purpose of this definition, "single-wide" shall be construed as any manufactured or mobile home having a width of between eight and 16 feet and is transported entirely in one section (Tift County Zoning Ordinance appendix A, section 2-16).
(b)
Mobile home means a used structure, transportable in one or more sections, which, in a traveling mode when erected on site, is 400 or more square feet and which is built on a permanent chassis and designed to be used as a dwelling unit with or without permanent foundation when connected to the required utilities and includes the plumbing, heating, air conditioning and electrical systems contained therein. These were built prior to June 15, 1976, and do not meet current department of Housing and Urban Development Manufactured Home codes. Mobile homes manufactured prior to June 15, 1976, shall be prohibited in Tift County. Any mobile home manufactured prior to June 15, 1976, shall remain on the property it occupies. Any pre-1976 mobile home shall not move to another site without approval from the Tift County Zoning Board of Appeals (Tift County Zoning Ordinance appendix A, section 2-16A).
(c)
Manufactured/mobile homes shall not be utilized for any purpose except a single family residence/dwelling.
(d)
Dealer means a person, partnership, corporation individual who sells or offers for sale mobile homes.
(e)
Locate or relocate a manufactured/mobile home means or includes the act of moving from one site to another a manufactured/mobile home.
(3)
Permit and decal required.
(a)
Before any person or dealer shall locate or relocate a mobile home within the unincorporated limits of Tift County, such person or dealer shall apply for and obtain from Tift County a permit and decal authorizing such location or relocation if such mobile home is intended to be used by the owner thereof as a residence for such person's self or as a residence for others or for any purpose other than resale. All persons engaged in moving or transporting a manufactured/mobile home, including owners, buyers, sellers, licensed dealers, haulers and any other person or entity moving or transporting a manufactured/mobile home regardless of origination or destination of the manufactured/mobile home shall be responsible for obtaining said permit and may be cited as provided herein for the failure to do so.
(b)
The issuance of the permit referenced in subparagraph (a) above shall be evidenced by a decal which shall be prominently attached and displayed on the exterior of the manufactured/mobile home by the owner (Tift County Code of Ordinances section 74-35, amendment from August 14, 2006).
(c)
A permit shall also be required authorizing the relocation of a manufactured/mobile home from Tift County to another county in Georgia or any other state after Tift County taxes have been paid. Tift County shall notify such other county of the date of issuance of such permit.
(d)
Every person owning or operating a manufactured/mobile home park or dealership within Tift County or engaged in the business of renting lots upon which to place manufactured/mobile homes in Tift County shall furnish the Tift County Tax Assessor on the first day of each calendar year a complete list of all manufactured/mobile homes parked, rented, or otherwise located upon the property of the person making the return.
(4)
Responsibility of utility company. No person supplying electricity, gas or water shall connect any electricity, gas or water into any manufactured/mobile home unless such home shall have been issued a permit as herein provided.
(5)
Form; contents. Tift County Commissioners are hereby authorized and empowered to prescribe forms for such applications and for any permit issued pursuant thereto, as well as any other document required in connection with such application or permit, and authorized and empowered to require that applicants furnish information in writing as may be reasonably required to effectuate the purpose hereof.
(6)
Permit fee. A fee set by Tift County Commissioners for the issuance of each permit shall be paid by the person or dealer who plans to locate or relocate a manufactured/mobile home.
(7)
Penalty.
(a)
Any person or dealer who does any act prohibited by this section or who fails to discharge any duty imposed hereby, shall be subject to the imposition of a fine of not more than $1,000.00 dollars, by imprisonment in the county jail for a period of time not to exceed 60 days, or by both such fine and imprisonment, or up to the limits of any penalty provided by state law for the ordinance.
(b)
Each day any violation of this Code or other ordinance shall continue shall constitute a separate offense.
Maximum punishments which may be imposed for violations of county ordinances, O.C.G.A. § 36-1-20(b).
(8)
Implementation and enforcement. The duty of implementation and enforcement of this section rests with the Tift County Tax Assessor, Tift County Tax Commissioner, Tift County Sheriff, Tift County Code Enforcement or any other designee assigned by Tift County Commissioners or Tift County Manager who is hereby charged with the promulgation of sufficient procedures for ensuring compliance/enforcement with this section. Upon receiving information constituting probable cause made known to any person authorized to enforce the provisions of this section that a violation has occurred, a citation may be issued to the alleged violator requiring him or her to appear in Tift County Magistrate Court, on a day and time certain, to answer the charge or charges contained therein.
(9)
Jurisdiction. The magistrates court of Tift County shall have jurisdiction over violations of this section and all procedures for enforcement of this section shall be as provided by O.C.G.A. tit. 15, ch. 10, art. 4. Complaints of violations of any provision of this section shall be brought before the magistrate's court on a citation issued by the authorized personnel of Tift County and shall be prosecuted through that court. Violations of this section will be tried upon citations either with or without a prosecuting attorney as determined by the Tift County Magistrate Judge. Service of citation shall be performed by authorized personnel of Tift County, Georgia. Citations shall meet all of the requirements as specified in the O.C.G.A. § 15-10-63, as amended.
(Ord. of 1-1-10, §§ 1—9)
Secs. 74-3—74-30. - Reserved.
ARTICLE II. - MOBILE HOME LOCATION PERMITS

Sec. 74-31. - Definitions.
The following words, terms and phrases, when used in this article, shall have the meanings ascribed to them in this section, except where the context clearly indicates a different meaning:
Dealer means a person, partnership, corporation, or individual who sells or offers for sale mobile homes.
Mobile home means a movable or portable dwelling over 32 feet in length and over eight feet wide, constructed to be towed on its own chassis, connected to utilities and designed without a permanent foundation, which can consist of one or more components that can be retracted for towing purposes and subsequently expanded for additional capacity, or of two or more units separately towable, but designed to be joined into one integral unit.
(Ord. of 5-14-90(1), § 2)
Cross reference— Definitions generally, § 1-2.
Sec. 74-32. - Enforcing jurisdiction of article.
The county magistrate's court shall have jurisdiction over violations of this article, and all procedures for enforcement of this article shall be as provided by O.C.G.A. § 15-10-60 et seq. Complaints of violations of any provision of this article shall be brought before the magistrate's court on a citation issued by the the chief tax assessor, any deputy tax assessor, and any officer of code enforcement, and shall be prosecuted through that court. Violations of this article will be tried upon citations either with or without a prosecuting attorney. Service of citation shall be performed by any of the authorities listed above. Citations shall meet all of the requirements as specified in O.C.G.A. § 15-10-63.
(Ord. of 5-14-90(1), § 9; Ord. of 8-11-08)
Sec. 74-33. - Implementation and enforcement of article.
The duty of implementation and enforcement of this article rests with the tax commissioner, who is hereby charged with the promulgation of sufficient procedures for ensuring compliance with this article. The tax commissioner is directed to implement procedures which will ensure that the citizens of the county will receive all procedural rights to which they are entitled under the laws of the state.
(Ord. of 5-14-90(1), § 8)
Sec. 74-34. - Penalty for violation of article.
Any person or dealer who does any act prohibited by this article or who fails to discharge any duty imposed hereby, upon conviction, shall be subject to punishment as provided in section 1-11.
(Ord. of 5-14-90(1), § 7)
Sec. 74-35. - Permit and decal required.
(a)
Before any person or dealer shall locate or relocate a mobile home within the unincorporated limits of Tift County, such person or dealer shall apply for and obtain from the tax commissioner a permit and decal authorizing such location or relocation if such mobile home is intended to be used by the owner thereof as a residence for such person's self, as a residence for others or for any purpose other than resale.
(b)
The issuance of the permit referenced in subsection (a) above shall be evidenced by a decal which shall be prominently attached and displayed on the exterior of the mobile home by the owner.
(Ord. of 5-14-90(1), § 3; Mo. of 11-9-92; Ord. No. 2006-03, 8-14-06)
Sec. 74-36. - Responsibility of utility company.
No person supplying electricity, gas or water shall connect any electricity, gas or water into any mobile home unless such home shall have been issued a permit as provided in this article.
(Ord. of 5-14-90(1), § 4)
Sec. 74-37. - Form; contents.
The tax commissioner is hereby authorized and empowered to prescribe forms for such applications and for any permit issued pursuant thereto, as well as any other document required in connection with such application or permit, and the tax commissioner is authorized and empowered to require that applicants furnish information in writing as may be reasonably required to effectuate the purpose of this article.
(Ord. of 5-14-90(1), § 5)
Sec. 74-38. - Fee.
A fee as set forth in the schedule of fees and charges for the issuance of each permit shall be paid by the person or dealer who locates or relocates a mobile home.
(Ord. of 5-14-90(1), § 6)
