Chapter 78 - OFFENSES AND MISCELLANEOUS PROVISIONS[1]
Footnotes:
--- (1) ---
Cross reference— Alcoholic beverages, ch. 6; amusements and entertainments, ch. 10; animals, ch. 14; courts, ch. 50; emergency services, ch. 54; environment, ch. 58; health and sanitation, ch. 66; traffic and vehicles, ch. 106.
State Law reference— Criminal Code of Georgia, O.C.G.A. § 16-1-1 et seq.

ARTICLE I. - IN GENERAL

Secs. 78-1—78-25. - Reserved.
ARTICLE II. - LOITERING[2]

Footnotes:
--- (2) ---
State Law reference— Loitering or prowling, O.C.G.A. § 16-11-36; ordinances proscribing loitering or related activities not preempted, O.C.G.A. § 16-6-24.

Sec. 78-26. - Definitions.
The following words, terms and phrases, when used in this article, shall have the meanings ascribed to them in this section, except where the context clearly indicates a different meaning:
Approved means adopted by the board of commissioners.
County commissioners means the legally elected and qualified governing assembly of the county.
Loitering means any conduct which constitutes a nuisance, a threat to morals or any interference with the rights of others.
Right-of-way means all the property owned or maintained by the county upon which there is located a road, street, alley, land, sidewalk or path.
Unincorporated areas means all areas of the county not included within the incorporated areas of a municipality.
(Ord. of 3-2-87, § 2)
Cross reference— Definitions generally, § 1-2.
Sec. 78-27. - Prohibited areas.
No person shall loiter on the following public streets, rights-of-way and public property:
(1)
All of the right-of-way of Pine Needle Place (County Road 307) from its intersection with the east right-of-way of Bowen Marchant Road eastward to the end of the right-of-way of Pine Needle Place including the cul-de-sac on the east end of Pine Needle Place.
(2)
All of the right-of-way of Short Street from a point 300 feet west of its intersection with the centerline of Fourth Avenue eastward to a point 300 feet east of the intersection of Short Street with its intersection with the centerline of Fourth Avenue.
(3)
All of the right-of-way of Fourth Avenue from a point 300 feet south of its intersection with the centerline of Short Street northward to a point 300 feet north of the centerline of Short Street.
(Ord. of 3-2-87, § 3)
Sec. 78-28. - Enforcement of article.
The county magistrate's court shall have jurisdiction over violators of this article and all procedures for enforcement of such article shall be as provided in O.C.G.A. § 15-10-60 et seq. Complaints of violations of any provision of this article shall be brought before the magistrate's court by the county sheriff, any deputy county sheriff, the chairman of the county commissioners or a designated representative of the chairman of the county commissioners and shall be prosecuted through that court.
(Ord. of 3-2-87, § 5)
Sec. 78-29. - Penalty for violation of article.
Any person convicted of violating this article shall be subject to the imposition of punishment as provided in section 1-11.
(Ord. of 3-2-87, § 4)
Sec. 78-30. - Reserved.
ARTICLE III. - FALSE ALARMS

Sec. 78-31. - Title.
This article shall be known and may be cited as the "False Alarm Ordinance" of Tift County, Georgia.
(Ord. of 2-10-97)
Sec. 78-32. - Definitions.
Alarm system. An assembly of equipment and devices designed and arranged to detect a fire or to signal an unauthorized intrusion into a premises or to signal an attempted robbery at a premises, and with respect to such signal public safety officers are expected to respond.
False alarm. The activation of a fire, burglary, robbery or other similar alarm by an event other than a fire, burglary, or robbery on the premises.
Person. The owner or lawful occupant of a residence, or any owner, partner, or manager of a business.
Public safety officer. A law enforcement officer or a firefighter.
Response. The dispatch of a public safety officer to the premises where an alarm system has been activated, indicating a fire, burglary, or robbery is in progress on the premises.
(Ord. of 2-10-97)
Sec. 78-33. - Prohibited acts.
(a)
It shall be unlawful for any person to activate an alarm system, otherwise cause an alarm system to be activated, or operate or maintain an alarm system which is activated at a time when no fire, burglary, or robbery is in progress at a premises but public safety officers are nevertheless dispatched to such premises.
(b)
It shall be unlawful for any person to activate, otherwise cause to be activated, or operate or maintain any alarm system which automatically sends a prerecorded message or coded signal indicating the activation of an alarm system to any public safety agency.
(c)
It shall be unlawful for any person to fail or refuse to obey a cease and desist order issued pursuant to this article.
(d)
Facilities owned or operated by the county or the county board of education are exempt from the prohibitions of this article.
(Ord. of 2-10-97)
Sec. 78-34. - Cease and desist orders.
(a)
The sheriff of Tift County shall issue a cease and desist order to any person violating section 78-33(b) of this article. Such order shall direct that the alarm system in question be permanently disconnected immediately upon receipt of such order.
(b)
The sheriff of Tift County shall also issue a cease and desist order to any person who has violated section 78-33(a) of this article six times within any calendar year. Such order shall direct that the alarm system in question be disconnected and shall not be reconnected until it has been inspected and serviced by a properly trained and licensed technician. Such order shall be rescinded upon receipt by the sheriff of written proof that such inspection and service have been performed and any malfunction or maladjustment corrected.
(Ord. of 2-10-97)
Sec. 78-35. - Penalties for false alarms.
(a)
For the first three violations of section 78-33(a) at any premises in a calendar year, there shall be no penalty.
(b)
For the fourth violation of section 78-33(a) at any premises, in a calendar year, there shall be a fine of $50.00.
(c)
For the fifth violation of section 78-33(a) at any premises in a calendar year, there shall be a fine of $75.00.
(d)
For the sixth and any subsequent violation of section 78-33(a) at any premises in a calendar year, there shall be a fine of $100.00.
(e)
Any violation of a cease and desist order issued pursuant to this article shall be punished as provided for violation of a county ordinance, and shall be punishable, upon conviction, as provided in section 1-11 of this Code.
(f)
Any failure or refusal to pay any fine provided for herein within 30 calendar days shall be punished as provided for violation of a county ordinance, and shall be punishable, upon conviction, as provided in section 1-11 for this Code.
(Ord. of 2-10-97)
