ARTICLE VII. - EMERGENCY MANAGEMENT

Sec. 2-401. - Definition.
"Emergency management" means the preparation for the carrying out of all emergency functions, other than functions for which military forces are primarily responsible, to prevent, minimize, and repair injury and damage resulting from emergencies, energy emergencies, disasters, or the imminent threat thereof, of manmade or natural origin. These functions include, without limitation, fire-fighting services; police services [public safety]; medical and health services; rescue; engineering; warning services; communications; defense from radiological, chemical, and other special weapons; evacuation of persons from stricken areas; emergency welfare services; emergency transportation; [nuclear power] plant protection; temporary restoration of public service utility services; and other functions related to civilian protection, together with all other activities necessary or incidental to the preparation for and carrying out of the foregoing functions.;hn0; (Res. No. 2003-06, § I, 10-13-03)
State Law reference— Georgia Emergency Management Act of 1981, as amended December 1992, Ch. 3, Art. 1, § 38-3-3.
Sec. 2-402. - Local organization for emergency management.
Tift County hereby determines to organize an emergency management agency, such agency to include participation by the cities of Tifton, Omega and Ty Ty. Upon agreement of the cities located within the geographical boundaries of Tift County [or so many as determined to participate] appropriate intergovernmental contracts shall be executed so as to put in place the directive of this ordinance with the goal of establishing one emergency management organization for the entire area of Tift County. The sheriff of Tift County is hereby appointed as director of the emergency management agency. The sheriff, as local emergency management agency director, shall have a direct responsibility for the organization, administration and operations for local organizations for emergency management, subject to the direction and control of the board of commissioners of Tift County and the respective city councils of the cities of Tifton, Omega and Ty Ty, such local governments to be represented by their respective elected chairman or mayor. Further, the local director shall:
(1)
Maintain an emergency management office in a building owned or leased by the political subdivision and the director or designee shall be available or on call at all times beyond working hours;
(2)
Develop, in conjunction with public and private agencies/organizations that have responsibility for designated emergency support functions, plans for responding to and recovering from disasters [and/or emergencies];
(4)
Respond to emergency scenes, command posts, and operation centers;
(5)
Coordinate emergency response of public and private agencies and organizations;
(6)
Attend training and meetings convened by the appointing authority or the (state emergency management) director;
(7)
Develop or cause to be developed, in collaboration with other public and private agencies within the state, mutual aid arrangements, consistent with state plans and programs, for reciprocal emergency management aid and assistance in case of emergency or disaster too great to be dealt with unassisted; and
(8)
Enter into mutual aid agreements, subject to approval of the Governor, with emergency management agencies or organizations in other states for reciprocal emergency management aid and assistance in case of emergency or disaster too great to be dealt with unassisted.
(Res. No. 2003-06, § II, 10-13-03)
State Law reference— Georgia Emergency Management Act of 1981, as amended December 1992, Ch. 3, Art. 2, §§ 38-3-27, 38-3-29.
Sec. 2-403. - Local emergency management powers.
Tift County and all participating municipalities shall have the emergency management power and authority to: appropriate and expend funds; execute contracts; obtain and distribute equipment, materials, and supplies; provide for the health and safety of persons and property, including emergency assistance to victims; direct and coordinate development of local emergency management plans and programs in accordance with federal and state policies and plans; appoint, employ, remove or provide, with or without compensation, chiefs of services, warning personnel, rescue teams, auxiliary fire and police personnel, and other emergency management workers; establish a primary and one or more secondary control centers to serve as command posts; and identify and acquire, temporarily or permanently, by purchase, lease or otherwise sites required for installation of temporary housing units and prepare or equip such sites.
(Res. No. 2003-06, § III, 10-13-03)
State Law reference— Georgia Emergency Management Act of 1981, as amended December 1992, Ch. 3, Art. 2, § 38-3-27.
Sec. 2-404. - Local emergency management financial assistance.
Tift County and all participating municipalities shall be entitled to receive [federal disaster] funds if the local emergency management organization has met all state and federal requirements to receive such funds. Qualifications include: legal establishment of an emergency management organization by local ordinance or resolution; a legally appointed local director who has been endorsed and appointed by the Georgia Emergency Management Director; an approved emergency and disaster plan with all applicable annexes [emergency support functions]; and an approved fiscal year program and other necessary compliance documents.
(Res. No. 2003-06, § IV, 10-13-03)
State Law reference— Georgia Emergency Management Act of 1981, as amended December 1992, Ch. 3, Art. 2, § 38-3-27.
Sec. 2-405. - Immunity of state and political subdivisions.
Neither the state nor any political subdivision of the state, nor the agents or representatives of the state or any political subdivision thereof, shall be liable for personal injury or property damage sustained by any person appointed or acting as a volunteer emergency management worker or member of any agency engaged in emergency management activity. Immunity does not apply in cases of willful misconduct, gross negligence or bad faith.
(Res. No. 2003-06, § V, 10-13-03)
State Law reference— Georgia Emergency Management Act of 1981, as amended December 1992, Ch. 3, Art. 2, § 38-3-35.
Sec. 2-406. - Local emergency management agency plan.
The emergency management agency shall develop, in partnership with Tift County and the cities of Tifton, Omega and Ty Ty [or so many as elect to participate] and agencies/organization which have primary responsibilities for emergency support functions, an approved emergency management plan. A copy of this plan and/or major revisions will be submitted to the Georgia Emergency Management Agency by the local emergency management director, in coordination with the undersigned local government officials. It is understood that the Georgia Emergency Management Agency will review this plan for compliance with all federal and state requirements.
(Res. No. 2003-06, § VI, 10-13-03)
Sec. 2-407. - Organizational structure.
In addition to establishing a director, by this article the board of commissioners of Tift County and the city councils of Tifton, Omega and Ty Ty appoint two deputy directors: Captain Jeff Flynt of the Tift County Sheriff's Department as Tift County Deputy Director and Chief Mike Flippo of the City of Tifton Fire Department as Tifton Deputy Director. The director and deputy directors are hereby directed to prepare the Local Emergency Management Agency plan referenced in section 2-406 above for adoption and ratification by the participating local governments through an interlocal agreement establishing an organizational structure and chain of command, together with such other aspects of the program which shall provide for management, location of necessary facilities, funding and such other programs as are in compliance with application law and regulations of the Georgia Emergency Management Agency so as to qualify Tift County and the cities of Tifton, Omega and Ty Ty for support from state and federal agencies in accomplishing the necessary action to establish an organizational structure and implement its operation. It is anticipated that this plan will be formulated and memorialized through interlocal agreements which shall be executed by all participating local governments. The director is further requested to present to the board of commissioners of Tift County and the city councils for the cities of Tifton, Omega and Ty Ty such further ordinances as may be necessary to effect the purpose of this article.
(Res. No. 2003-06, § VII, 10-13-03)
Sec. 2-408. - National Incident Management System (NIMS) adopted.
Tift County hereby adopts the National Incident Management System (NIMS) as established under HSPD 5 and the Unified Command System as established under O.C.G.A. § 38-3-57 as its system of preparing for and responding to disaster incidents and directs all incident managers and response organizations in Tift County train and exercise and use these systems in their response operations.
(Res. No. 2005-15, 9-12-05)
