DIVISION 1. - GENERALLY

Sec. 90-101. - Purpose.
The purpose and intent of this article is to:
(a)
Establish a local policy concerning telecommunications providers and services;
(b)
Establish clear local guidelines, standards and nine frames for the exercise of local authority with respect to the regulation of telecommunications providers and services;
(c)
Promote competition in telecommunications;
(d)
Minimize unnecessary local regulation of telecommunications providers and services;
(e)
Encourage the provision of advanced and competitive telecommunications services on the widest possible basis to businesses, institutions and residents of Tift County;
(f)
Permit and manage reasonable access to the public ways of the county for telecommunications purposes on a competitively neutral basis;
(g)
Conserve the limited physical capacity of the public ways held in public trust by the county;
(h)
Assure that the county's current and ongoing costs of granting and regulating private access to and use of the public ways are fully paid by the persons seeking such access and causing such costs;
(i)
Secure fair and reasonable compensation to the county and the residents of the county for permitting private use of the public ways;
(j)
Assure that all telecommunications carriers providing facilities or services within the county comply with the ordinances, rules and regulations of the county;
(k)
Assure that the county can continue to fairly and responsibly protect the public health, safety and welfare;
(l)
Enable the county to discharge its public trust consistent with rapidly evolving federal and state regulatory policies, industry competition and technological development.
(Ord. of 8-11-97)
Sec. 90-102. - Definitions.
For the purpose of this article, and the interpretation and enforcement thereof, the following words and phrases shall have the following meanings, unless the context of the sentence in which they are used shall indicate otherwise:
Affiliate means a person that (directly or indirectly) owns or controls, is owned or controlled by, or is under common ownership or control with another person.
Alternative tower structure shall mean man-made trees, clock towers, bell steeples, light poles and similar alternative-design mountain structures that camouflage or conceal the presence of antennas or towers.
Antenna shall mean any exterior apparatus designed for telephonic, radio, or television communications through the sending and/or receiving of electromagnetic waves.
Annual gross reserve. (Reserved.)
Cable act shall mean the Cable Communications Policy Act of 1984, 47 USC Sec. 532, et seq., as now and hereafter amended.
Cable operator means a telecommunications carrier providing or offering to provide "cable service" in unincorporated Tift County as that term is defined in the Cable Act.
Cable service for the purpose of this article shall have the same meaning provided by the Cable Act.
County means Tift County.
County property means and includes all real property owned by the county, other than public streets and utility easements as those terms are defined herein, and all property held in a proprietary capacity by the county, which are not subject to right-of-way licensing and franchising as provided in this article.
Excess capacity means the volume or capacity in any existing or future duct, conduit, manhole, handhole or other utility facility within the public way that is or will be available for use for additional telecommunications facilities.
FCC or federal communications commission means the federal administrative agency, or lawful successor, authorized to regulate and oversee telecommunications carriers, services and providers on a national level.
GDOT means the Georgia Department of Transportation.
Governing authority means the board of commissioners of Tift County, Georgia.
Height means, when referring to a tower or other structure, the distance measured from ground level to the highest point on the tower or other structure, even if said highest point is an antenna.
Other ways means the highways, streets, alleys, utility easements or other rights-of-way in unincorporated Tift County, but under the jurisdiction and control of a governmental entity other than the county.
Overhead facilities means utility poles, utility facilities and telecommunications facilities located above the surface of the ground, including the underground supports and foundations for such facilities.
Person means and includes corporations, companies, associations, joint stock companies or associations, firms, partnerships, limited liability companies and individuals and includes their lessors, trustees and receivers.
Preexisting towers and antennas means any tower or antenna for which a permit has been properly issued prior to the effective date of this article. Any such preexisting towers and antennas shall not be required to meet the requirements of this article, other than the requirements of the FAA, the FCC, and any other agency of the federal government with the authority to regulate towers and antennas, and the requirements of the Tift County building codes.
PSC or public service commission means the state administrative agency, or lawful successor, authorized to regulate and oversee telecommunications carriers, services and providers in the State of Georgia.
Public street means any highway, street, alley or other public right of way for motor vehicle traffic under the jurisdiction and control of the county which has been acquired, established, dedicated or devoted to highway purposes not inconsistent with telecommunications facilities.
Public way means and includes all public streets and utility easements, as those terms are defined herein, now or hereafter owned by the county, but only to the extent of the county's right, title, interest or authority to grant a license or franchise to occupy and use such streets and easements for telecommunications facilities.
Site means the actual area encompassed by the telecommunications tower or tall structure, including its guy wires or other supports. In the case of a stand-alone tower, site shall mean the tower and a radius of 300 feet around said tower.
State means the State of Georgia.
Surplus space means that portion of the usable space on a utility pole which has the necessary clearance from other pole users to allow its use by a telecommunications carrier for a pole attachment.
Tall structure means any structure constructed or erected with a fixed location on or in the ground, or attached to something having a fixed location on the ground, that is in excess of 35 feet in height. Among other things, tall structures include buildings, billboards, towers, and man made trees, but does not include walls or fences.
Telecommunications carrier means and includes every person that directly or indirectly owns, controls, operates or manages plant, equipment or property in Tift County, used or to be used for the purposes of offering telecommunications service.
Telecommunications provider means and includes every person who provides telecommunications service over telecommunications facilities without any ownership or management control of the facilities.
Telecommunications facilities/services means the providing or offering for rent, sale or lease, or in exchange for other value received, of the transmittal of voice, data, image, graphic and video programming information between or among points by wire, cable, fiber optics, laser, microwave, radio, satellite or similar facilities, with or without benefit of any closed transmission medium.
Telecommunications system. See "Telecommunications facilities/services."
Tower means any structure that is designed and constructed primarily for the purpose of supporting one or more antennas, including self-supporting lattice towers, guyed towers and monopoles but not alternative tower structures. The term includes radio and television transmission towers, microwave towers, common carrier towers, cellular telephone towers and the like, excluding amateur radio antennas.
Underground facilities means utility and telecommunications facilities located under the surface of the ground, excluding the underground foundations or supports for overhead facilities.
Usable space means the total distance between the top of a utility pole and the lowest possible attachment point that provides the minimum allowable vertical clearance.
Utility easement means any easement owned by the county and acquired, established, dedicated or devoted for public utility purposes not inconsistent with telecommunications facilities.
Utility facilities means the plant, equipment and property, including but not limited to the poles, pipes, mains, conduits, ducts, cables, wires, plant and equipment located under, on or above the surface of the ground within the public ways of the county and used or to be used for the purpose of providing utility or telecommunications services.
(Ord. of 8-11-97)
Sec. 90-103. - Registration.
All telecommunications carriers and providers engaged in the business or transmitting, supplying or furnishing of telecommunications originating or terminating in the county shall register with the county pursuant to Division 2 of this article.
(Ord. of 8-11-97)
Sec. 90-104. - Airport area restrictions.
No telecommunications towers with a height above 35 feet shall be located within a three-mile radius of any public airport, unless granted special exception pursuant to the zoning regulations of Tift County.
(Ord. of 8-11-97)
Sec. 90-105. - Telecommunications license.
Any telecommunications carriers who desire to construct, install, operate, maintain, or otherwise locate telecommunications facilities in, under, over or across any public way of the county for the sole purpose of providing telecommunications service to persons and areas outside the county shall first obtain a license granting the use of such public ways from the county pursuant to Division 3 of this article.
(Ord. of 8-11-97)
Sec. 90-106. - Telecommunications franchise.
Any telecommunications carriers who desire to construct, install, operate, maintain or otherwise locate telecommunications facilities in, under, over or across any public way of the county, and to also provide telecommunications services to persons or areas in unincorporated Tift County, shall first obtain a franchise granting the use of such public ways from the county pursuant to Division 4 of this article.
(Ord. of 8-11-97)
Sec. 90-107. - Cable television franchise.
Any telecommunications carrier who desires to construct, install, operate, maintain or locate telecommunications facilities in any public way of the county for the purpose of providing cable service to persons in the unincorporated areas of the county shall first obtain a cable franchise from the county as provided in Division 5 of this article.
(Ord. of 8-11-97)
Sec. 90-108. - Application to existing franchise ordinances and agreements.
This article shall have no effect on any existing franchise ordinance or franchise agreement until:
(a)
The expiration of said franchise ordinance or agreement;
(b)
An amendment to an unexpired franchise ordinance or franchise agreement, unless both parties agree to defer full compliance to a specific date not later than the present expiration date.
(Ord. of 8-11-97)
Sec. 90-109. - Application to existing telecommunications facilities and structures.
This article shall not affect any telecommunications facilities and/or structures existing on June 15, 1997; provided, however, that telecommunications carriers and providers shall secure licenses and/or franchises provided herein, and shall provide the county with an accurate map or maps certifying the location of all telecommunications facilities within the public ways. At any time those facilities and/or structures be replaced, application for the new facilities/structures and payment of appropriate fees shall be required, but so long as the new or replacement facilities/structures are of reasonably similar design and height as the facilities/structures being replaced, no zoning action shall be required.
(Ord. of 8-11-97)
Sec. 90-110. - Distance requirements between towers and tall structures.
An additional tower or tall structure shall be permitted on an existing tower site provided the new structure is of less stature and is less obtrusive than the existing structure, in the opinion of the county engineer, and provided further that the additional tower or tall structure is completely contained within the existing tower site, including supporting guy wires. Otherwise, minimum spacing between such towers and/or tall structures shall be 500 feet. Distance shall be measured by straight line from the base of each tower or tall structure.
Communications towers/antenna which are accessory to a permitted use and comply with all other regulations for the district in which they are located may be mounted on but shall not extend more than 20 feet above an existing structure.
(Ord. of 8-11-97)
Sec. 90-111. - Penalties.
Any person found guilty of violating, disobeying, omitting, neglecting or refusing to comply with any of the provisions of this article shall be punished as provided in section 1-11 of the Code of Tift County. A separate and distinct offense shall be deemed committed each day on which a violation occurs or continues.
(Ord. of 8-11-97)
Sec. 90-112. - Other remedies.
Nothing in this article shall be construed as limiting any judicial remedies that the county may have, at law or in equity, for enforcement of this article.
(Ord. of 8-11-97)
Sec. 90-113. - Severability.
If any section, subsection, sentence, clause, phrase, or other portion of this article, or its application to any person, is, for any reason, declared invalid, in whole or in part by any court or agency of competent jurisdiction, said decision shall not affect the validity of the remaining portions hereof.
(Ord. of 8-11-97)
Secs. 90-114—90-120. - Reserved.
