ARTICLE IX. - PROBATE COURT JUDGE[12]

Footnotes:
--- (12) ---
Editor's note— Printed herein is 1965 Ga. Laws, page 2541 pertaining to the probate court judge. Amendments to the act are indicated by parenthetical history notes following amended provisions. The absence of a history note indicates that the provision remains unchanged from the original act. Obvious misspellings have been corrected without notation. For stylistic purposes, a uniform system of headings, catchlines and citations to state statutes has been used. Additions made for clarity are indicated by brackets.
Code reference—Courts, ch. 50.
State Law reference— Compensation of probate court judges and clerks for certain services, O.C.G.A. § 15-1-12; probate court's appellate jurisdiction over judgment of probate and magistrate courts, O.C.G.A. § 15-6-8(3); probate courts generally, O.C.G.A. § 15-9-1 et seq.

Section 1. - Abolishment of present mode of compensation.
The present mode of compensating the probate court judge of Tift County, known as the fee system, is hereby abolished and in lieu thereof an annual salary for said probate court judge is prescribed as hereinafter provided.
Section 2. - [Reserved].
Editor's note— Section 2 dealt with the probate court judge's salary. Pursuant to O.C.G.A. § 15-9-63 the minimum annual salary of each judge of the probate court shall be fixed according to population.
Section 3. - Fees; collection; payment to county treasury; submission of itemized statement.
After the effective date of this Act, said officer shall diligently and faithfully undertake to collect all fees, fines, forfeitures, commissions, costs, allowances, penalties, funds, monies and all other emoluments and perquisites formerly allowed as compensation for services in any capacity, and shall receive and hold the same in trust for said county as public monies and shall pay the same into the county treasury on or before the 15th day of each month next following the month in which they were collected or received. Provided, however, that the governing authority of Tift County shall have the authority to require that such monies shall be turned in to and delivered to the office of the Board of Commissioners of Tift County on a daily basis or at such other intervals as may be specified from time to time by the Board of Commissioners of Tift County. At the time of each such payment into the county treasury, said officer shall furnish the governing authority of the county a detailed itemized statement under oath of all funds received during the preceding period by such officer and paid into the county treasury. The statement shall show the respective amounts of money collected and the source thereof.
Section 4. - Personnel; appointment, removal or replacement.
Said officer shall have the authority to appoint such deputies, clerks, assistants and other personnel as he shall deem necessary to efficiently and effectively discharge the official duties of his office. Said official shall from time to time recommend to the governing authority of said county the number of such personnel needed by his office together with the suggested compensation to be paid each employee. However, it shall be within the sole discretion of the governing authority of Tift County to fix the compensation to be received by each employee in said office. It shall be within the sole power and authority of said officer during his term of office to designate and name the person or persons who shall be employed as such deputies, clerks, assistants and other employees and to prescribe their duties and assignments and to remove or replace any such employees at will and within his sole discretion.
Section 5. - Operating expenses of office; supplies and materials.
The necessary operating expenses of said office expressly including the compensation of all personnel and employees shall be paid from the funds of the county available for such purpose. All supplies, materials, furnishings, furniture, utilities, uniforms, vehicles and equipment and the repair, replacement and maintenance thereof as may be reasonably required in discharging the official duties of said office shall be furnished by the county and shall be paid from any funds of the county available for such purpose. The determination of such requirements for said office shall be at the sole discretion of the governing authority of Tift County.
Section 6. - Bonds.
The official bonds of said officer and his respective deputies, clerks, assistants and other personnel as may be required by law shall be procured by said elected officer and the premiums and costs thereof shall be paid out of any county funds available for that purpose.
