ARTICLE IV. - TRADE CENTER AUTHORITY[7]

Footnotes:
--- (7) ---
Editor's note— Printed herein is 1980 Ga. Laws, page 4520 which established the county trade center authority. Amendments to the act are indicated by parenthetical history notes following amended provisions. The absence of a history note indicates that the provision remains unchanged from the original act. Obvious misspellings have been corrected without notation. For stylistic purposes, a uniform system of headings, catchlines and citations to state statutes has been used. Additions made for clarity are indicated by brackets.
Code reference—Coastal Plain Area Economic Opportunity Authority, § 2-266 et seq.

Section 1. - Short title.
This may be cited as the "Tift County Trade Center Authority Act."
Section 2. - Creation; composition; membership; terms; appointments; officers; quorum; vacancies; voting; compensation; rules.
(a)
There is hereby created a body corporate and politic to be known as the Tift County Trade Center Authority, and which shall be deemed to be political subdivision of the State of Georgia and a public corporation and by the name style and title[,] said body may contract and be contracted with, sue and be sued, implead and be impleaded, complain and defend in all courts of law and equity. The Authority shall consist of ten (10) members, to be appointed by the City Commission of Tifton and the Board of Commissioners of Tift County, Georgia, for terms as follows: two (2) members shall be appointed for terms of one (1) year; two (2) members shall be appointed for terms of two (2) years; two (2) members shall be appointed for terms of three (3) years; two (2) members shall be appointed for terms of four (4) years; and two (2) members shall be appointed for terms of five (5) years; and thereafter, upon the expiration of such terms, successors shall be appointed for a term of five (5) years. The Board of Commissioners of Tift County, Georgia, shall appoint five (5) members of the Authority whose initial appointment shall be for terms of one (1) year, two (2) years, three (3) years, four (4) years, and five (5) years, respectively, and their successors; and the remaining five (5) members and their successors shall be appointed by the City Commission of Tifton in the same manner as those appointed by the Board of Commissioners of Tift County. All members of the Authority shall be residents of the area governed by the governing body which shall appoint them.
(b)
Immediately after their appointment, the members of the Authority shall enter upon their duties. They shall elect one of their number as chairperson, another as vice-chairperson, and may also elect a secretary and/or treasurer, who need not necessarily be a member of the Authority.
(c)
The chairperson and vice-chairperson, secretary and treasurer shall serve for a period of one (1) year and until their successors are appointed and qualified. Six (6) members of the Authority shall constitute a quorum.
(d)
In the event of a vacancy by reason of death, disqualification, resignation, or other reason, the governing body, which appointed such members, shall appoint a person meeting the qualifications set out for membership to serve the remainder of the term of such member.
(e)
No vacancy on the Authority shall impair the right of the quorum to exercise all their rights and to perform all of the duties of the Authority.
(f)
The chairperson of the Authority shall not be entitled to vote upon any issue, motion or resolution, except in the case of a tie vote of the other members voting on said motion, resolution or question.
(g)
The members of the Authority shall serve without compensation; provided, however, that all members shall be reimbursed for their actual expenses necessarily incurred in the performance of their duties. The Authority shall make rules and regulations for its own government. It shall have perpetual existence.
Section 3. - Definitions.
As used in this Act, the following words or terms shall have the following meanings:
(a)
The word "Authority" shall mean the Tift County Trade Center Authority created by this Act.
(b)
The word "Project" shall be deemed to mean and include the acquisition, construction, equipping, maintenance and operation of multiuse trade center type facilities to be used for athletic contests, games, meetings, trade fairs, expositions, political conventions, agricultural events, theatrical and musical performances, conventions and other public entertainments, and the usual facilities related thereto, including, without limitation, refreshment stands and restaurants, and facilities for the purveying of foods, beverages, publications, souvenirs, novelties, and goods of all kinds, whether operated or purveyed directly or indirectly through concessions, licenses, leases or otherwise, parking facilities or parking areas in connection therewith, recreational centers and areas including, but not limited to, gymnasium and athletic facilities and related buildings, and the usual and convenient facilities appertaining to such undertakings and the extension and improvements of such facilities, acquiring the necessary property therefor, both real and personal, and the lease, sale and licensing of any part or all of such facilities, including real and personal property, to any persons, firms or corporations, whether public or private, so as to ensure the efficient and proper development, maintenance and operation of such facilities and areas deemed by the Authority to be necessary, convenient or desirable. The Authority shall have the right to acquire and construct more than one Project and any combination of facilities may be constructed as a separate Project.
(c)
The term "Cost of the Project" shall embrace the cost of construction, the cost of all lands, properties, rights, easements and franchises acquired, the cost of all machinery and equipment, financing charges, interest prior to and during construction, and for one (1) year after completion of construction, cost of engineering, architectural and legal expenses, and of plans and specifications, and other expenses necessary or incident to the financing herein authorized, or the construction of any project, the placing of the same in operation and the condemnation of property necessary for such construction and operation. Any obligation or expense incurred for any of the foregoing purposes shall be regarded as part of the cost of the project and may be paid or reimbursed as such out of the proceeds of revenue bonds issued under the provisions of this Act for such project.
(d)
The term "Revenue Bonds," "Bonds" and "Obligations" as used in this Act, shall mean revenue bonds as defined and provided for in the Revenue Bond Law of Georgia (1957 Ga. Laws, page 36), amending the law formerly known as the "Revenue Certificate Law of 1937" (1937 Ga. Laws, page 761), as amended, and such type of obligations may be issued by the Authority as authorized under said Revenue Bond Law and in addition, shall also mean obligations of the Authority, the issuance of which are hereinafter specifically provided for in this Act.
(e)
Any project shall be deemed "self-liquidating" if in the judgment of the Authority, the revenues and earnings to be derived by the Authority therefrom and all properties used, leased and sold in connection therewith will be sufficient to pay the principal and interest of the revenue bonds which may be issued to finance, in whole or in part, the cost of such project or projects.
Section 4. - Powers.
The Authority shall have powers:
(a)
To have a seal and alter the same at its pleasure;
(b)
To accept gifts, grants and donations;
(c)
To acquire by purchase, lease or otherwise, and to hold, lease and dispose of, real and personal property, of every kind and character for its corporate purposes;
(d)
To acquire in its own name by purchase, on such terms and conditions and in such manner as it may deem proper, or by condemnation in accordance with the provisions of any and all existing laws applicable to the condemnation of property for public use, real property, or rights of easements therein, or franchises necessary or convenient for its corporate purposes, and to use the name so long as its corporate existence shall continue and to lease or make contracts with respect to the use of or dispose of the same in any manner it deems to the best advantage of the Authority, the Authority being under no obligation to accept and pay for any property condemned under this Act except from the funds provided under the authority of this Act, and in any proceedings to condemn, such orders may be made by the court having jurisdiction of the suit, action or proceedings as may be just to the Authority and to the owners of the property to be condemned, and no property shall be acquired under the provisions of this Act upon which any lien or encumbrance exists, unless at the time such property is so acquired a sufficient sum of money be deposited in trust to pay and redeem the fair value of such lien or encumbrance; and if the Authority shall deem it expedient to construct any project on any other lands the title to which shall then be in the State of Georgia, the Governor is hereby authorized to convey, for and on behalf of the State, title to such lands to the Authority upon payment of the director, fiscal division, Department of Administrative Services for the credit of the general fund of the State, the reasonable value of such lands, such value to be determined by three appraisers to be agreed upon by the Governor and the chairperson of the Authority;
(e)
To appoint, select and employ officers, agents and employees, including engineering, architectural and construction experts, fiscal agents and attorneys, and fix their respective compensations;
(f)
To make contracts and leases, and to execute all instruments necessary or convenient, with any and all persons, firms and corporations and any city, town, municipality, consolidated government, county or other political subdivision, or departments, institutions or agencies of this State including contracts for construction of any Project and leasing of any Project and contracts with respect to the use and management of any Project; and any and all persons, firms and corporations and any city, town, municipality, consolidated government, county or other political subdivision, department, institution or agency of this State is hereby authorized to enter into contracts, leases or agreements with the Authority upon such terms and for such purposes as they deem advisable; and any such Project shall be for the development and promotion in this State of the cultural growth, public welfare, education and recreation of the people of this State and accordingly all such Projects shall, and hereby are declared to be, public buildings to be used for public purposes; and without limiting the generality of the foregoing, authority, right and power is hereby specifically granted to any such city, town, municipality, county or consolidated government to enter into and make contracts, lease agreements and other undertakings with the Authority with respect to the furnishing of services and facilities by the Authority and for the payments of rents, fees and charges for the use by such cities, towns, municipalities or consolidated governments or the residents thereof of any Project; and the rentals contracted to be paid by the lessees or tenants to the Authority under any such contracts or leases entered into pursuant to the provisions of this Act shall constitute general obligations of any such city, town, municipality, county or consolidated government for the payment of which the full faith and credit of such city, town, municipality, county or consolidated government shall be and the same hereby is pledged to provide the funds required to fulfill all obligations arising under any such contract or lease; and any such city, town, municipality, county or consolidated government which shall have entered into such a contract or lease pursuant to the provisions of this Act shall annually in each and every fiscal year during the term of such contract or lease include in a general revenue or appropriation measure, within any millage limitations of its power of taxation and whether or not any other items are included, sums sufficient to satisfy the payments required to be made in each year by such contract or lease until all payments required under such contract or lease have been paid in full, and such contract or lease payments shall constitute a first charge on all such sums so appropriated, and such sums shall be and hereby are unconditionally obligated to the payment of such contracts or leases; provided, however, that such payments shall not impair existing obligations of such city, town, municipality, county or consolidated government. In the event for any reason any such provision or appropriation is not made, then the fiscal officers of such city, town, municipality, county or consolidated government are hereby authorized and directed to set up as an appropriation on their accounts in each fiscal year the amounts required to pay the obligations called for under any such contract or lease. The amount of the appropriation in each fiscal year to meet the obligations of such contract or lease as authorized and required hereby shall be due and payable and shall be expended for the purpose of paying and meeting the obligations provided under the terms and conditions of such contract or lease, and such appropriation shall have the same legal status as if the contracting city, town, municipality, county or consolidated government had included the amount of the appropriation in its general revenue or appropriation measure, and such fiscal officers shall make such payment to the Authority if for any reason such appropriation is not otherwise made; and any such city, town, municipality, county or consolidated government may obligate itself and its successors under any such contract or lease to use only such structures, buildings or facilities constituting such Project and none other;
(g)
To construct, erect, acquire, own, repair, remodel, maintain, add to, extend, improve, equip, operate and manage projects, as hereinabove defined, the cost of any such project to be paid in whole or in part from the proceeds of revenue bonds of the Authority or from such proceeds and any grant from the United States of America or any agency or instrumentality thereof;
(h)
To accept loans and/or grants of money, materials, or property of any kind from the United States of America or any agency or instrumentality thereof, upon such terms and conditions as the United States of America or such agency or instrumentality may require;
(i)
To borrow money for any of its corporate purposes and to issue negotiable revenue bonds payable solely from funds pledged for that purpose, and to provide for the payment of the same and for the rights of the holders thereof;
(j)
To establish charges, rates and regulations for users of the facilities and services of the Authority;
(k)
To do all things which municipalities are empowered to do under the provisions of the Revenue Bond Law of Georgia, approved March 31, 1937 (1937 Ga. Laws, page 761), as amended, codified in (O.C.G.A. § 36-82-60), subject to any limitations herein contained; and
(l)
To do all things necessary or convenient to carry out the powers expressly given in this Act.
Section 5. - Revenue bonds—Generally.
The Authority, or any authority or body which has or which may in the future succeed to the powers, duties and liabilities vested in the Authority created hereby, shall have power and is hereby authorized to provide by resolution for the issuance of negotiable revenue bonds of the Authority, for the purpose of paying all or any part of the cost as herein defined of any one or more projects. The principal and interest of such revenue bonds shall be payable solely from the special fund herein provided for such payment. The bonds of each issue shall be dated, shall bear interest at such rate or rates per annum, payable at such time or times not exceeding 40 years from their date or dates, or at such times exceeding 40 years as may hereafter be authorized by the bonding laws of the State of Georgia, shall be payable in such medium of payment as to both principal and interest as may be determined by the Authority and may be made redeemable before maturity, at the option of the Authority, at such price or prices and under such terms and conditions as may be fixed by the Authority in the resolution providing for the issuance of bonds.
Section 6. - Same—Form; denominations; registration; place of payment.
The Authority shall determine the form of the bonds, including any interest coupons to be attached thereto, and shall fix the denomination or denominations of the bonds and the place or places of payment of principal and interest thereof, which may be at any bank or trust company within or without the State. The bonds may be issued in coupon or registered form, or both, as the Authority may determine. Provisions may be made for the registration of any coupon bond as to principal alone and also as to both the principal and interest.
Section 7. - Same—Signature; seal.
In case any officer whose signature shall appear on any bonds, or whose facsimile signature shall appear on any coupon, shall cease to be such officer before the delivery of such bonds, such signature shall nevertheless be valid and sufficient for all purposes, the same as if he had remained in office until such delivery. All such bonds shall be signed by the chairperson of the Authority and the official seal of the Authority shall be affixed thereto and attested by the Secretary of the Authority and any coupons attached thereto shall bear the facsimile signature of the chairperson of the Authority. Any coupon may bear the facsimile signature of such persons and any bond may be signed, sealed, and attested on behalf of the Authority by such persons as at the actual time of the execution of such bonds shall be duly authorized or hold the proper office, although at the date of such bonds such persons may not have been so authorized or shall not have held such office.
Section 8. - Same—Negotiability; exemption from taxation.
All revenue bonds issued under the provisions of this Act shall have and are hereby declared to have all the qualities and incidents of negotiable instruments under the laws of this State. Such bonds are declared to be issued for an essential public and governmental purpose and the said bonds and the income thereof shall be exempt from all taxation within the State.
Section 9. - Same—Sale; price.
The Authority may sell such bonds in such manner and for such price as it may determine to be for the best interests of the Authority.
Section 10. - Same—Proceeds of bonds.
The proceeds of such bonds shall be used solely for the payment of the cost of the project or projects, and unless otherwise provided in the resolution authorizing the issuance of the bonds, or in the trust indenture, additional bonds may in like manner be issued, to provide the amount of any deficit, which, unless otherwise provided in the resolution authorizing the issuance of the bonds, or in the trust indenture, shall be deemed to be of the same, and shall be entitled to payment from the same bond, without preference or priority of the bonds first issued for the same purpose. If the proceeds of the bonds of any issue shall exceed the amount required for the purpose for which such bonds are issued, the surplus shall be paid into the funds, hereinafter provided, for the payment of principal and interest of such bonds.
Section 11. - Same—Interim receipts and certificates or temporary bonds.
Prior to the preparation of definitive bonds, the Authority may, under like restrictions, issue interim receipts, interim certificates or temporary bonds, with or without coupons, exchangeable for definitive bonds upon the issuance of the latter.
Section 12. - Same—Replacement of lost or mutilated bonds.
The Authority may also provide for the replacement of any bonds which shall become mutilated or be destroyed or lost.
Section 13. - Same—Conditions precedent to issuance; object of issuance.
Such revenue bonds may be issued without any other proceedings, or the happening of any conditions or things other than those proceedings, conditions and things which are specified or required by this Act. In the discretion of the Authority, revenue bonds of a single issue may be issued for the purpose of any particular project. Any resolution, providing for the issuance of revenue bonds under the provisions of this Act shall become effective immediately upon its passage and need not be published or posted, and any such resolution may be passed at any regular or special or adjourned meeting of the Authority by a majority of its members.
Section 14. - Same—Credit not pledged.
Revenue bonds issued under the provisions of this Act shall not be deemed to constitute a debt of the State of Georgia or the County of Tift or a pledge of the faith and credit of said State or County but such bonds shall be payable solely from the funds hereinafter provided for, and the issuance of such revenue bonds shall not directly, indirectly or contingently, obligate the said State or County to levy or to pledge any form of taxation whatever therefor, or to make any appropriation for the payment, and all such bonds shall contain recitals on their face covering substantially the foregoing provisions of this Section.
Section 15. - Same—Trust indenture as security.
In the discretion of the Authority, any issuance of such revenue bonds may be secured by a trust indenture by and between the Authority and a corporate trustee, which may be any trust company or bank having the powers of a trust company within or outside of the State. Such trust indenture may pledge or assign fees, tolls, revenues, and earnings to be received by the Authority. Either the resolution providing for the issuance of revenue bonds or such trust indenture may contain such provisions for protecting and enforcing the rights and remedies of the bondholders as may be reasonable and proper and not in violation of law, including covenants setting forth the duties of the Authority in relation to the acquisition of property, the construction of the project, the maintenance, operation, repair and insurance of the project, and the custody, safeguarding and application of all monies, and may also provide that any project shall be constructed and paid for under the supervision and approval of consulting engineers or architects employed or designated by the Authority, and satisfactory to the original purchasers of the bonds issued therefor, and may also require that the security given by contractors and by any depositary of the proceeds of the bonds or revenues or other monies be satisfactory to such purchasers, and may also contain provisions concerning the conditions, if any, upon which additional revenue bonds may be issued. It shall be lawful for any bank or trust company incorporated under the laws of this State to act as such depositary and to furnish such indemnifying bonds or pledge such securities as may be required by the Authority. Such indenture may set forth the rights and remedies of the bondholders as is customary in trust indentures securing bonds and debentures of corporations. In addition to the foregoing, such trust indenture may contain such other provisions as the Authority may deem reasonable and proper for the security of the bondholders. All expenses incurred in carrying out such trust indenture may be treated as a part of the cost of maintenance, operation and repair of the project affected by such indenture.
Section 16. - Same—To whom proceeds of bonds shall be paid.
The Authority shall, in the resolution providing for the issuance of revenue bonds or in the trust indenture, provide for the payment of the proceeds of the sale of the bonds to any officer or person, who, or any agency, bank or trust company which shall act as trustee of such funds and shall hold and apply the same to the purposes hereof, subject to such regulations as this Act and such resolution or trust indenture may provide.
Section 17. - Same—Sinking funds.
The revenues, fees, tolls and earnings derived from any particular project or projects, regardless of whether or not such fees, earnings and revenues were produced by a particular project for which bonds have been issued, unless otherwise pledged and allocated, may be pledged and allocated by the Authority to the payment of the principal and interest on revenue bonds of the Authority as the resolution authorizing the issuance of the bonds or in the trust instrument may provide, and such funds so pledged, for whatever source received, which said pledge may include funds received from one or more or all sources, shall be set aside at regular intervals as may be provided in the resolution or trust indenture, into a sinking fund which said sinking fund shall be pledged to and charged with the payment of (1) the interest upon such revenue bonds as such interest shall fall due, (2) the principal of the bonds as the same shall fall due, (3) the necessary charges of paying agents for paying principal and interest, and (4) any premium upon bonds retired by call or purchase as hereinabove provided. The use and disposition of such sinking funds shall be subject to such regulations as may be provided in the resolution authorizing the issuance of the revenue bonds or in the trust indenture, but, except as may otherwise be provided in such resolution or trust indenture, such sinking fund shall be a fund for the benefit of all revenue bonds without distinction or priority of one over another. Subject to the provisions of the resolution authorizing the issuance of the bonds or in the trust indenture, surplus monies in the sinking fund may be applied to the purchase or redemption of bonds and any such bonds so purchased or redeemed shall forthwith be cancelled and shall not again be issued.
Section 18. - Same—Remedies of bondholders.
Any holder of revenue bonds issued under the provisions of this Act or any of the coupons appertaining thereto, and the trustee under the trust indenture, if any, except to the extent the rights herein given may be restricted by resolution passed before the issuance of the bonds or by the trust indenture, may, either at law or in equity, by suit, action, mandamus, or other proceedings, protect and enforce any and all rights under the laws of the State of Georgia, or granted hereunder, or under such resolution or trust indenture, and may enforce and compel performance of all duties required by this Act or by such resolution or trust indenture, to be performed by the Authority, or any officer thereof, including the fixing, charging, and collecting of revenues, fees, tolls and other charges for the use of the facilities and services furnished.
Section 19. - Same—Refunding bonds.
The Authority is hereby authorized to provide by resolution for the issuance of bonds of the Authority for the purpose of funding or refunding any revenue bonds issued under the provisions of this Act and then outstanding, together with accrued interest thereon. The issuance of such funding or refunding bonds, the maturities and all other details thereof, the rights of the holders thereof, and the duties of the Authority in respect to the same, shall be governed by the foregoing provisions of this Act insofar as the same may be applicable.
Section 20. - Same—Exemption from taxation; covenant of state.
It is hereby found, determined and declared that the creation of the Authority and the carrying out of its corporate purpose is in all respects for the benefit of the people of this State, and that the Authority is an institution of purely public charity and will be performing an essential governmental function in the exercise of the power conferred upon it by this Act, and this State covenants with the holders of the bonds that the Authority shall not be required to pay any taxes or assessments upon any of the property acquired or leased by it or under its jurisdiction, control, possession or supervision or upon its activities in the operation or maintenance of the projects erected by it or any fees, tolls or other charges for the use of such projects or other income received by the Authority, and that the bonds of the Authority, their transfer, and the income therefrom shall at all times be exempt from taxation within the State. The exemption from taxation herein provided shall not extend to tenants or lessees of the Authority. The Authority shall be exempt from sale and use taxes on sales to the Authority when paid for directly by the Authority.
Section 21. - Same—Venue and jurisdiction.
Any action to protect or enforce any rights under the provisions of this Act or any suit or action against such Authority shall be brought in the Superior Court of Tift County, Georgia, and any action pertaining to validation of any bonds issued under the provisions of this Act shall likewise be brought in said court which shall have exclusive, original jurisdiction of such actions.
Section 22. - Same—Validation.
(a)
All bonds of the Authority shall be confirmed and validated in the Tift County Superior Court in accordance with the procedure of the Revenue Bond Law of Georgia, approved March 31, 1937 (1937 Ga. Laws, page 761), as amended, codified in (O.C.G.A. § 36-82-60). The petition of validation shall be brought against said Authority and, in the event the payments to be made by any city, town, municipality, county or consolidated government under a contract or lease entered into between the Authority and such political subdivision are pledged as security for the payment of the revenue bonds sought to be validated, such political subdivision or subdivisions shall also be made parties defendant, and the defendants shall be required to show cause, if any exists, why such contract or lease or contracts or leases and the terms and conditions thereof should not be adjudicated to be in all respects valid and binding upon such subdivision or subdivisions. It shall be incumbent upon such subdivision or subdivisions to defend against adjudication of the validity and binding effect of such contract or lease or contracts or leases or be forever bound thereby. Notice of such proceedings shall be included in the notice of the validation hearing required to be issued and published by the clerk of the Superior Court of Tift County in which court such validation proceeding shall be initiated. Any resident of the State of Georgia may intervene in the validation proceedings at or before the time set for the validation hearing and may assert any ground of objection to the validity and binding effect of such bonds and the security therefor and of such contract or lease or contracts or leases on his own behalf and on behalf of all citizens and residents of the State of Georgia. In the event no bill of exceptions shall be filed within twenty days from the date of the judgment of validation, or if filed and the judgment shall be affirmed by the proper appellate court of this State, the judgment of the Tift County Superior Court so confirming and validating the validity and binding effect of such contract or lease or contracts or leases and of such bonds and the security therefor shall be forever conclusive upon the issue of the validity and binding effect of such contracts, leases and bonds and the security therefor and upon the issue of the validity and constitutionality of this and any other Act pertaining to such contracts and bonds and the security therefor against the Authority issuing the same and against the parties to such contracts and against all residents of the State of Georgia.
(b)
Any action or proceeding to contest the validity or binding effect of any such revenue bonds or resolution or trust instrument pertinent thereto or any contracts made for the purposes of providing the payment of such bond as aforesaid must be commenced and filed prior to the conclusion of the validation hearing, notice of which shall have been given as provided by law. After the expiration of such period of limitation no right of action or defense founded upon the invalidity of such bonds, resolutions, trust instruments, or contracts shall be asserted nor shall the validity and binding effect of such bonds, resolutions, trust instruments, or contracts be opened to question or attack in any court upon any ground whatever, except in an action or proceeding commenced and filed prior to the conclusion of such validation hearing.
Section 23. - Same—Interest on bondholders protected.
While any of the bonds issued by the Authority remain outstanding, the powers, duties or existence of said Authority or of its officers, employees, or agents, shall not be diminished or impaired in any manner that will adversely affect the interests and rights of the holders of such bonds, and no other entity, department, agency, or authority, will be created which will compete with the authority to such an extent as to affect adversely the rights and interests of the holders of such bonds, nor will the State itself so compete with the Authority. The provisions of the holders of any such bonds, and upon the issuance of bonds under the provisions hereof, shall constitute a contract with the holders of such bonds.
Section 24. - Purpose of the authority.
Without limiting the generality of any provisions of this Act, the general purpose of the Authority is declared to be that of acquiring, constructing, equipping, maintaining and operating one or more Projects consisting of multiuse trade center type facilities to be used for athletic contests, games, meetings, trade fairs, expositions, political conventions, agricultural events, theatrical and musical performances, conventions and other public entertainments, and the usual facilities related thereto, including, without limitation, refreshment stands and restaurants, and facilities for the purveying of foods, beverages, publications, souvenirs, novelties, and goods of all kinds, whether operated or purveyed directly or indirectly through concessions, licenses, leases or otherwise, parking facilities or parking areas in connection therewith; for acquiring, constructing, equipping, maintaining and operating recreational centers and areas including, but not limited to, gymnasium and athletic facilities and related buildings, and the usual and convenient facilities appertaining to such undertakings; the extension and improvements of such facilities; acquiring the necessary property therefor, both real and personal, with the right to contract for the use of, or to lease or sell any or all of such facilities, including real property, and to do any and all things deemed by the Authority necessary, convenient and desirable for and incident to the efficient and proper development and operation of such types of undertakings.
Section 25. - Rates, charges and revenues; use.
The Authority is hereby authorized to prescribe and fix and collect rates, fees, tolls and charges, and to revise from time to time and collect such rates, fees, tolls and charges for the services, facilities or commodities furnished, including leases, concessions or subleases of its lands or facilities, or contracts for the use of its land and facilities, and to determine the price and terms at and under which its lands or facilities may be sold, and, in anticipation of the collection of the revenues and income of such undertakings or projects, is authorized to issue revenue bonds as herein provided to finance, in whole or in part the cost of the acquisition, construction, reconstruction, improvement, equipment, betterment or extension of its lands and facilities and to pledge to the punctual payment of said bonds and interest thereon, all or any part of the revenues and income of such undertakings or projects, including the revenues of improvements, betterments or extensions thereto, thereafter made or the sale of any of its lands and facilities.
Section 26. - Rules and regulations for operation of projects.
It shall be the duty of the Authority to prescribe rules and regulations for the operation of the project or projects constructed under the provisions of this Act.
Section 27. - Tort immunity.
The Authority shall have the same immunity and exemption from liability for torts and negligence as Tift County; and the officers, agents and employees of the Authority when in the performance of the work of the Authority shall have the same immunity and exemption from liability for torts and negligence as the officers, agents and employees of Tift County when in the performance of their public duties or work.
Section 28. - Powers declared supplemental and additional.
The foregoing Sections of this Act shall be deemed to provide an additional and alternative method for the doing of the things authorized thereby and shall be regarded as supplemental and additional to powers conferred by other laws, and shall not be regarded as in derogation of any powers not existing.
Section 29. - Liberal construction of article.
This Act being for the welfare of various political subdivisions of the State and its inhabitants, shall be liberally construed to effect the purposes thereof.
