Chapter 38 - CIVIL EMERGENCIES[1]
Footnotes:
--- (1) ---
State Law reference— Georgia Mutual Aid Act, O.C.G.A. § 36-69-1 et seq.; state militia, O.C.G.A. § 38-2-1 et seq.; Georgia Emergency Management Act of 1981, O.C.G.A. § 38-3-1 et seq.; Interstate Civil Defense and Disaster Compact, O.C.G.A. § 38-3-70 et seq.; emergency funds for local government, O.C.G.A. § 50-8-8.

ARTICLE I. - IN GENERAL

Secs. 38-1—38-25. - Reserved.
ARTICLE II. - EMERGENCY EXECUTIVE ORDERS

Sec. 38-26. - Definitions.
The following words, terms and phrases, when used in this article, shall have the meanings ascribed to them in this section, except where the context clearly indicates a different meaning:
Civil emergency means:
(1)
A riot or unlawful assembly characterized by mob action or civil disobedience, or by the use of actual force or violence, or by any threat to use force if accompanied by immediate power to execute by three or more persons acting together without authority of law.
(2)
Any natural disaster or manmade calamity, including flood, conflagration, cyclone, tornado, earthquake or explosion within the corporate limits of, or affecting, the city, resulting in the death or injury of persons or the destruction of property to such extent that extraordinary measures must be taken to protect the public health, safety and welfare.
Curfew means a prohibition against any person walking, running, loitering, standing, motoring or otherwise being present upon any alley, sidewalk, street, highway, public property or vacant premises within the corporate limits of the city, except persons officially designated for duty with reference to such civil emergency.
Weapon means any club, bottle, board, rock, gun, knife, instrument or object of any kind used, or intended to be used, against the person or property of another.
(Code 1995, § 38-26)
Sec. 38-27. - Executive order of civil emergency; powers of one ordering.
Whenever, in the judgment of the mayor, it is determined that a civil emergency exists, he shall have power to impose by executive order any or all of the following regulations necessary to preserve the peace and order of the city:
(1)
To impose a curfew upon all or any portion of the city, thereby requiring all persons in the designated curfew area to forthwith remove themselves from the area; provided, however, that physicians, nurses and ambulance operators performing medical services, utility personnel maintaining essential public services, firefighters and city-authorized or requested law enforcement officers and personnel may be exempted from such curfew.
(2)
To order the closing of any business establishments or clubs anywhere within the city for the period of the emergency, such businesses to include, but not be limited to, those selling distilled spirits, malt beverages and wine, firearms, ammunition and explosives and gasoline or other flammable materials.
(3)
To designate any public street, thoroughfare or vehicle parking area closed to motor vehicles and pedestrian traffic.
(4)
To call upon regular and reserve law enforcement agencies and organizations within or outside of the city to assist in preserving and keeping the peace within the city.
(5)
To issue such other orders as are imminently necessary for the preservation of peace and the protection of life and property.
(Code 1995, § 38-27)
Sec. 38-28. - When effective.
The executive order of emergency provided for in this article shall become effective upon its issuance in writing and dissemination to the public by appropriate news media.
(Code 1995, § 38-28)
Sec. 38-29. - Termination and renewal.
Any emergency executive order in accordance with the provisions of this article shall terminate after 24 hours from the issuance thereof, or upon issuance of an executive order determining that such an emergency no longer exists, whichever occurs sooner; provided, however, that such emergency may be extended for such additional periods of time as may be determined necessary by resolution of the city council.
(Code 1995, § 38-29)
Sec. 38-30. - Offenses.
During the time of an executive order emergency under this article, the following shall be considered violations punishable as provided in section 1-8. It shall be unlawful:
(1)
For any unauthorized person to remain at the place or scene of any riot or unlawful assembly after he has been ordered to disperse by the police or any other lawful authority.
(2)
For any person not designated for duty to possess, carry or use, either on his person or within a vehicle, any weapon.
(3)
For any person not designated for duty to possess, carry or use any knife or any firearm or ammunition for use in a firearm.
(4)
For any person to possess, carry or consume alcoholic beverages in a public street or place within any restricted area designated as provided in section 38-27.
(5)
For any person to disobey any order contained in the executive order of emergency.
(Code 1995, § 38-30)
