Chapter 1 - GENERAL PROVISIONS

Sec. 1-1. - Designation and citation of Code.
The ordinances embraced in the following sections and chapters shall constitute and be designated as "The Code of Waynesboro, Georgia," and may be so cited.
(Code 1974, § 1-1; Code 1995, § 1-1)
State Law reference— Ordinance codification required, O.C.G.A. § 36-80-19.
Sec. 1-2. - Definitions and rules of construction.
In the construction of this Code and of all ordinances, the following rules shall be observed, unless such construction would be inconsistent with the manifest intent of the city council:
Charter. The term "Charter" means the city Charter, as it now exists or as it may be amended in the future.
City. The term "city" means the City of Waynesboro, Georgia.
Code. Whenever the term "Code" or "this Code" is referred to without further qualification, it shall mean The Code of Waynesboro, Georgia, as designated in section 1-1.
Council. Whenever the term "city council" or "council" are used, they shall mean the mayor and council of the City of Waynesboro, Georgia.
County. The term "the county" or "this county" means the County of Burke, Georgia.
Gender. A word importing the masculine gender only shall extend and be applied to females and to firms, partnerships, and corporations as well as to males.
Number. Words used in the singular include the plural, and the plural includes the singular number.
Oath. The term "oath" shall be construed to include an affirmation and the terms "swear" and "sworn" shall be equivalent to the terms "affirm" and "affirmed."
State Law reference— "Oath" defined, O.C.G.A. § 1-3-3(12).
O.C.G.A. The term "O.C.G.A." means Official Code of Georgia Annotated, as amended from time to time.
Officials, officers, etc. Whenever reference is made to officials, boards, commissions, departments, etc., by title only, i.e., "city administrator/clerk," "chief of police," etc., they shall be deemed to refer to the officials, boards, commissions and departments of the City of Waynesboro, Georgia; and shall also include duly authorized deputies or assistants of such officers, etc.
Or, and. The term "or" may be read "and," and the term "and" may be read "or," if the sense requires it.
Person. The term "person" shall extend and be applied to firms, partnerships, associations, organizations, institutions, bodies politic and corporate, other entities, any combination thereof, and individuals.
State Law reference— "Person" defined, O.C.G.A. § 1-3-3(14).
Shall, may. The term "shall" is mandatory; the term "may" is permissive.
Signature, subscription. The term "signature" or "subscription" includes the mark of an illiterate or infirm person.
State Law reference— "Signature" defined, O.C.G.A. § 1-3-3(19).
State. The term "the state" or "this state" shall be construed to mean the State of Georgia.
Street. The term "street" means the entire width between boundary lines of every way publicly maintained when any part thereof is open to the use of the public for purposes of vehicular travel.
(Code 1974, §§ 1-2, 10-30; Code 1995, § 1-2)
State Law reference— Construction of statutes generally, O.C.G.A. § 1-3-1; construction of definitions used in state laws generally, O.C.G.A. § 1-3-2; definitions used in state laws generally, O.C.G.A. § 1-3-3.
Sec. 1-3. - Catchlines of sections.
The catchlines of sections of this Code printed in boldface type, italics, or otherwise, are intended as mere catchwords to indicate the contents of the section, and shall not be deemed or taken to be titles of such sections, nor as any part of the section, nor, unless expressly so provided, shall they be so deemed when any of such sections, including the catchlines, are amended or reenacted. No provision of this Code shall be held invalid by reason of deficiency in any such catchline or in any heading or title to any chapter, article or division.
(Code 1974, § 1-3; Code 1995, § 1-3)
State Law reference— Notes and catchlines of code sections not part of law, O.C.G.A. § 1-1-7.
Sec. 1-4. - History notes.
The history notes appearing in parentheses after sections in this Code are not intended to have any legal effect but are merely intended to indicate the source of matter contained in the sections.
(Code 1995, § 1-3.1)
Sec. 1-5. - Editor's notes and references.
The editor's notes and state law references in this Code are not intended to have any legal effect but are merely intended to assist the user of this Code.
(Code 1995, § 1-3.2)
Sec. 1-6. - Provisions considered continuations of existing ordinances.
The provisions appearing in this Code, so far as they are the same as ordinances adopted prior to this Code and included in such Code, shall be considered as continuations thereof and not as new enactments.
(Code 1995, § 1-4)
Sec. 1-7. - Severability of parts of Code.
It is hereby declared to be the intention of the city council that the sections, paragraphs, sentences, clauses and phrases of this Code are severable, and if any phrase, clause, sentence, paragraph, or section of this Code, or its application to any persons or circumstances, shall be declared invalid or unconstitutional by the valid judgment or decree of a court of competent jurisdiction, such invalidity or unconstitutionality shall not affect any of the remaining phrases, clauses, sentences, paragraphs and sections of this Code, or their application.
(Code 1974, § 1-5; Code 1995, § 1-5)
State Law reference— Severability of provisions of state laws, O.C.G.A. § 1-1-3.
Sec. 1-8. - General penalty.
Whenever in this Code or in any ordinance of the city any act is prohibited or is made or declared to be unlawful or an offense, or whenever in such Code or ordinance the doing of any act is required or the failure to do any act is declared to be unlawful, where no specific penalty is provided therefor, such violation of any such provision of this Code or any ordinance shall be punishable by a fine not exceeding $1,000.00, by sentence of imprisonment not exceeding six months and to work on the streets or public works for a period not exceeding six months, any or all of such penalties, in the discretion of the municipal court judge.
(Code 1974, § 1-8; Code 1995, § 1-6)
State Law reference— Penalty to be imposed in certain criminal and traffic cases and upon violation of bond, O.C.G.A. § 15-21-73; powers of presiding officer in court of a municipal corporation to bind over or commit criminal offenders to jail, O.C.G.A. § 17-7-22; alternate punishments for violations of municipal ordinances involving a traffic offense, O.C.G.A. § 17-10-3(e); sentences and fines that may be imposed by municipal courts, O.C.G.A. §§ 36-32-1(c), 36-32-5; maximum penalties for violation of municipal ordinances, O.C.G.A. § 36-35-6(a)(2)(B), (C); jurisdiction of municipal courts over nonfelony traffic offenses, O.C.G.A. § 40-13-21(a); jurisdiction of municipal courts as to nuisances, O.C.G.A. § 41-2-5.
Sec. 1-9. - Miscellaneous actions and ordinances not affected by Code.
Nothing in this Code or the ordinance adopting this Code shall affect:
(1)
Any offense or act committed or done or any penalty or forfeiture incurred or any contract or right established or accruing before the effective date of this Code;
(2)
Any ordinance promising or guaranteeing the payment of money for the city or authorizing the issuance of any bonds for the city or any evidence of the city's indebtedness, or any contract or obligation assumed by the city;
(3)
Any ordinance, consistent with this Code, fixing salaries or wages of officers or employees of the city;
(4)
Any appropriation ordinance;
(5)
Any right or franchise granted by the mayor and council to any person prior to the effective date of this Code;
(6)
Any ordinance dedicating, naming, establishing, locating, relocating, opening, closing, paving, widening, vacating, etc., any street or public way in the city;
(7)
Any ordinance establishing and prescribing the street grades of any street in the city;
(8)
Any ordinance providing for local improvements or assessing taxes therefor;
(9)
Any ordinance dedicating or accepting any plat or subdivision in the city;
(10)
Any urban renewal ordinance;
(11)
Any ordinance regulating zoning in the city;
(12)
Any ordinance prescribing traffic regulations for particular locations, such as stop intersections, one-way streets, no parking zones, speed limits, etc.;
(13)
Any ordinance, consistent with this Code, assessing taxes, or providing for the levying or collecting thereof;
(14)
Any ordinance, consistent with this Code, establishing costs, fees or charges;
and all such actions and ordinances are hereby recognized as continuing in full force and effect to the same extent as if set out at length in this Code.
(Code 1995, § 1-8; Ord. of 2-27-1974, § 3)
Sec. 1-10. - Amendments to Code; effect of new ordinances; amendatory language.
(a)
All ordinances passed subsequent to the adoption of this Code which amend, repeal, or in any way affect this Code may be numbered in accordance with the numbering system of this Code and printed for inclusion therein. When subsequent ordinances repeal any chapter, section or subsection or any portion thereof, such repealed portions may be excluded from such Code by the omission thereof from reprinted pages.
(b)
Amendments to any of the provisions of this Code shall be made by amending such provisions by specific reference to the section of this Code, in substantially the following language: "That section _____ of The Code of Waynesboro, Georgia, is hereby amended to read as follows:…(set out new provisions in full)."
(c)
If a new section, subdivision, division, article or chapter is to be added to the Code, the following language may be used: "Section (chapter, article, division or subdivision, as appropriate) of The Code of Waynesboro, Georgia, is hereby created to read as follows:…."
(d)
All sections, articles, chapters or provisions of this Code desired to be repealed shall be specifically repealed by section or chapter number, as the case may be.
(Code 1974, § 1-6; Code 1995, § 1-9)
Sec. 1-11. - Supplementation of Code.
(a)
By contract or by city personnel, supplements to this Code shall be prepared and printed whenever authorized or directed by the city council. A supplement to the Code shall include all substantive parts of permanent and general ordinances passed by the city council during the period covered by the supplement and all changes made thereby in the Code. The pages of a supplement shall be so numbered that they will fit properly into the Code and will, where necessary, replace pages which have become obsolete or partially obsolete, and the new pages shall be so prepared that, when they have been inserted, the Code will be current through the date of adoption of the latest ordinance included in the supplement.
(b)
In the preparation of a supplement to this Code, all portions of the Code which have been repealed shall be excluded from the Code by the omission thereof from reprinted pages.
(c)
When preparing a supplement to this Code, the codifier (meaning the person authorized to prepare the supplement) may make formal, nonsubstantive changes in ordinances and parts of ordinances included in the supplement, insofar as it is necessary to do so to embody them in a unified code. For example, the codifier may:
(1)
Organize the ordinance material into appropriate subdivisions;
(2)
Provide appropriate catchlines, headings and titles for sections and other subdivisions of the Code printed in the supplement, and make changes in such catchlines, headings and titles;
(3)
Assign appropriate numbers to sections and other subdivisions to be inserted in the Code and, where necessary to accommodate new material, change existing section or other subdivision numbers;
(4)
Change the words "this ordinance" or words of the same meaning to "this chapter," "this article," "this division," etc., as the case may be, or to "sections _____ to _____" (inserting section numbers to indicate the sections of the Code which embody the substantive sections of the ordinance incorporated in the Code); and
(5)
Make other nonsubstantive changes necessary to preserve the original meaning of the ordinance sections inserted in the Code; but, in no case, shall the codifier make any change in the meaning or effect of ordinance material included in the supplement or already embodied in the Code.
(Code 1995, § 1-10)
Sec. 1-12. - Effect of repeal of ordinances.
(a)
The repeal of an ordinance shall not revive any ordinances in force before or at the time the ordinance repealed took effect.
(b)
The repeal of an ordinance shall not affect any punishment or penalty incurred before the repeal took effect, nor any suit, prosecution or proceeding pending at the time of the repeal, for an offense committed under the ordinance repealed.
(Code 1974, § 1-4; Code 1995, § 1-11)
State Law reference— Operation of laws generally, retrospective operation, O.C.G.A. § 1-3-5.
