DIVISION 4. - BOARDS AND COMMISSIONS[4]
Footnotes:
--- (4) ---
Cross reference— Vacancies in hospital authority membership, App. B, § 401; developmental disabilities planning and coordinating council, App. B, § 427 et seq.; DeKalb County Oglethorpe housing development authority, App. B, § 489; pension board, App. B, § 902 et seq.; merit system council, App. B, § 1053 et seq.; metropolitan area planning and development commission, App. B, § 1128 et seq.; governing body of Lennox Park community improvement district, App. B, § 1305.

Part A. - General Provisions

Secs. 101—115. - Reserved.
Part B. - Community Relations Commission

Sec. 116. - Creation; members; terms; officers.
(a)
Creation; membership. The governing authority of DeKalb County shall create and appoint the DeKalb County Community Relations Commission, to be composed of twenty-one (21) citizens of DeKalb County selected by the Chief Executive Officer of DeKalb County with the advice and consent of the members of the DeKalb County Board of Commissioners, and emphasis shall be on obtaining a diverse group insofar as political party, race, religion, economic status, type of employment, age, disability, national origin, and sex is concerned. Seven (7) of the members shall be appointed to terms of three (3) years each and until their successors are appointed and qualified; seven (7) of the members shall be appointed for terms of two (2) years each and until their successors are appointed and qualified; and seven (7) members shall be appointed to terms of one (1) year each and until their successors are appointed and qualified. After initial appointments have been served, appointive terms shall be three (3) years each in duration.
(b)
Officers; terms. The DeKalb County Community Relations Commission shall have a Chairperson who shall be appointed by the Chief Executive Officer of DeKalb County for a term of three (3) years and until his or her successor is appointed and qualified and a vice-chairperson, secretary, and such other officers as deemed advisable by the DeKalb County Community Relations Commission, each of whom shall be elected by the members of the DeKalb County Community Relations Commission, for terms of three (3) years each. Members may succeed themselves for three (3) consecutive terms only, after which they shall be eligible for membership after the expiration of three (3) years from the end of the most recent term served. This section shall apply to members serving on July 1, 1991; provided, however, that any such member who has served more than three (3) terms shall be authorized to serve out his or her then current term.
(Acts 1970, p. 3097, § 1; Ord. No. 85-6, § 1, 2-12-85; Acts 1991, p. 4192, § 1; Acts 1994, p. 4379, § 1)
Editor's note— The ordinance shown in the left-hand column below may be found in the acts as shown in the right-hand column below:
EXPAND
Ord. No. Acts
85-6 1986, p. 5685
  Sec. 117. - Duties and functions.
The DeKalb County community relations commission shall have the following duties and functions:
(1)
To encourage, promote, and develop fair and equal treatment and opportunity for all persons regardless of race, color, creed, sex, disability, or national origin; and
(2)
To coordinate and assist local governmental agencies on human relations in their efforts to promote better human relations; and
(3)
To cooperate with community, professional, civic and religious organizations; and federal, state, county and municipal agencies in the development of public information programs, leadership and activities in the interest of equal opportunity and treatment of all racial, religious and ethnic groups; and
(4)
To conduct research projects and studies and to make reports on race relations in DeKalb County; and
(5)
To annually and periodically report to the chief executive officer and board of commissioners of DeKalb County on the activities of the DeKalb County community relations commission; and
(6)
To adopt such rules and regulations as are necessary to govern the proceedings of the DeKalb County community relations commission and to conduct all meetings in accordance with said rules and regulations; and
(7)
To investigate, study and inform the public as to any complaints received concerning the above areas; and
(8)
To provide a forum for airing community problems and grievances.
(Acts 1970, p. 3097, § 2; Ord. No. 85-6, § 2, 2-12-85; Acts 1994, p. 4379, § 2)
Editor's note— The ordinances shown in the left-hand column below may be found in the acts as shown in the right-hand column below:
EXPAND
Ord. No. Acts
85-6 1986, p. 5685
  Sec. 118. - Compensation; annual budget.
No member of the DeKalb County community relations commission shall receive any compensation for his or her activities as a member of said body. The DeKalb County Community Relations Commission shall submit an annual budgetary request to the governing authority of DeKalb County for approval. The governing authority of DeKalb County is hereby authorized to appropriate county funds for use by the DeKalb County community relations commission, as provided herein.
(Acts 1970, p. 3097, § 3; Ord. No. 85-6, § 3, 2-12-85)
Editor's note— The ordinances shown in the left-hand column below may be found in the acts as shown in the right-hand column below:
EXPAND
Ord. No. Acts
85-6 1986, p. 5685
  Secs. 119—130. - Reserved.
Part C. - DeKalb County Coliseum Authority

Sec. 131. - Citation.
This act [part] shall be known and may be cited as the "DeKalb County Coliseum Authority Act."
(Acts 1969, p. 2567, § 1)
Sec. 132. - Creation; members; terms; officers; quorum; compensation; rules.
(a)
There is hereby created a body politic to be known as the DeKalb County coliseum authority, which shall be deemed to be a political subdivision of the State of Georgia and a public corporation by that name, style and title and said body may contract and be contracted with, sue and be sued, implead and be impleaded, complain and defend in all courts of law and equity. The authority shall consist of five (5) members.
(b)
The original members of the authority and their initial terms of office shall be as follows:
Mr. Alfred J. Ciraldo for a one-year term;
Mr. Dan E. McConaughey for a two-year term;
Mr. William W. Lively for a three-year term;
Mr. Samuel L. Buttrill for a four-year term;
Mr. Jack L. Mathis for a five-year term.
The initial terms of office shall extend from the organizational meeting of the authority in 1969 until its annual meetings in 1970, 1971, 1972, 1973 and 1974, respectively, for the one-, two-, three-, four- and five-year terms of office. All subsequent terms of office shall be for five (5) years. All vacancies in the membership of the authority, whether caused by expiration of term of office, death, resignation, or otherwise, shall be filled by a majority vote of the governing authority of DeKalb County. Any member of the authority may be elected to succeed himself. All members, duly appointed, shall hold office until his or her successor shall be appointed and duly qualified. Any person, appointed to fill an unexpired term, shall serve only for the unexpired portion of the term of the person he or she replaced unless he or she thereafter shall be elected to a full five-year term by the governing authority of DeKalb County.
(c)
The authority shall elect one (1) of its members as chairman and another member as vice-chairman, both of whom shall be elected for a term of one (1) year, the first chairman and vice-chairman to serve from the organizational meeting of the authority in 1969 until the annual meeting in 1970, or until their successors are elected and qualified. Subsequent chairmen and vice-chairmen shall be elected at the annual meeting of the authority and shall serve from the time of such election until the annual meeting in the next succeeding year, of [or] until their successors are elected and qualified. It shall also elect a secretary and treasurer who does not necessarily have to be a member of the authority and, if not a member, he or she shall have no voting rights and shall be elected to serve for such term as may be determined by the authority. If a member of the authority is elected to serve as secretary and treasurer, he or she shall be elected in the same manner and for the same term as the chairman and vice-chairman. No member of the authority shall hold more than one (1) office except that of secretary and treasurer. Three (3) members of the authority eligible to vote shall constitute a quorum. It shall require the concurrence of at least three (3) members of the authority to exercise any of the rights of and to perform any of the duties of the authority. No vacancy on the authority shall impair the right of the quorum to act. The members of the authority shall serve without compensation except that they shall be reimbursed for actual expenses incurred in the performance of their duties. The authority shall make rules and regulations for its own government. It shall have perpetual existence.
(Acts 1969, p. 2567, § 2)
Sec. 133. - Definitions.
As used in this act [part], the following words and terms shall have the following meanings:
(1)
The word "authority" shall mean the DeKalb County Coliseum Authority created in section 2 of this act [§ 132 of this appendix].
(2)
The word "project" shall be deemed to mean and include a coliseum for athletic, sporting, cultural, religious, political, musical, educational, and other events, and the usual facilities related thereto, including, without limitation, refreshment stands and restaurants and facilities for the purveying of foods, beverages, publications, souvenirs, novelties, and goods of all kinds, whether operated or purveyed directly, or indirectly through concessions, licenses, leases or otherwise, parking facilities or parking areas in connection therewith, and extensions and improvements of such facilities, and acquiring the necessary property therefor, both real and personal, deemed by the authority to be necessary, convenient or desirable. All of the properties and facilities comprehended by the next preceding need not necessarily comprise one (1) project but might comprise two (2) or more separate projects which relate to the coliseum as described.
(3)
The term "cost of the project" shall embrace the cost of construction, the cost of all lands, properties, rights, easements and franchises acquired and the cost of all conveyances in fee simple of the authority's title thereto and leases thereof, the cost of preparing the land, including the installation of storm and sanitary sewers, the cost of all machinery, equipment and furnishings related to the operation of any project, financing charges, interest prior to and during construction and for six (6) months after completion of construction, cost of engineering, architectural, fiscal and legal expenses, and other expenses necessary or incident to determining the feasibility or practicability of the project, administrative expenses and such other expenses as may be necessary or incident to the financing herein authorized, and start-up costs incurred in placing any project in operation. Any obligation or expense incurred for any of the foregoing purposes shall be regarded as a part of the "cost of the project" and may be paid or reimbursed as such out of any funds of the authority, including the proceeds of any revenue bonds issued under the provisions of this act [part] for any such project or projects.
(4)
The terms "revenue bonds," "bonds," and "obligations" as used in this act [part], shall mean revenue bonds as defined and provided for in the Revenue Bond Law (Ga. L. 1937, p. 761 et seq.) [O.C.G.A. § 36-82-60 et seq.], as now or hereafter amended, and such type of obligations as may be issued by the authority as authorized under said Revenue Bond Law and any amendments thereto; and, in addition, shall also mean obligations of the authority, the issuance of which are hereinafter authorized in this act [part].
(5)
Any project shall be deemed "self-liquidating" if, in the judgment of the authority, the revenues and earnings to be derived by the authority therefrom and all properties used, leased and sold in connection therewith will be sufficient to pay the principal of and interest on the revenue bonds which may be issued to finance, in whole or in part, the cost of such project or projects.
(Acts 1969, p. 2567, § 3)
Sec. 134. - Powers.
The authority shall have powers:
(1)
To have a seal and alter the same at pleasure;
(2)
To acquire by gift, purchase, lease or otherwise, and to hold, to lease to or sell to any persons, firms or corporations, whether public or private, and to dispose of, real and personal property of every kind and character for its corporate purposes;
(3)
To appoint, select and employ officers, agents and employees, including engineering, architectural and construction experts, fiscal agents and attorneys, and fix their respective compensations;
(4)
To make contracts, leases and to execute all instruments necessary or convenient, including contracts for construction of projects and leases of projects, contracts with respect to the use of projects which it causes to be erected or acquired or contracts for managerial and operating services, and to dispose by conveyance of its title in fee simple of real and personal property of every kind and character, and any and all persons, firms and corporations, all cities, towns and counties, and any and all political subdivisions, departments, institutions or agencies of the state are hereby authorized to enter into contracts, leases or agreements with the authority upon such terms and for such purposes as they deem advisable;
(5)
To construct, erect, acquire, own, repair, remodel, maintain, add to, extend, improve, equip, furnish, operate and manage projects, as hereinabove defined, the cost of any such project to be paid in whole or in part from the proceeds of revenue bonds or other funds of the authority or from such proceeds or other funds made available to the authority;
(6)
To accept loans and/or grants of money or materials or property of any kind from the United States of America or any agency or instrumentality thereof, upon such terms and conditions as the United States of America or such agency or instrumentality, may impose;
(7)
To accept loans and/or grants of money or materials or property of any kind from the State of Georgia or any agency or instrumentality or political subdivision thereof, upon such terms and conditions as the State of Georgia or such agency or instrumentality or political subdivision may impose;
(8)
To borrow money for any of its corporate purposes, including operating deficits, and to execute evidences of such indebtedness, secured or unsecured, upon such terms and conditions as the authority shall deem desirable;
(9)
To exercise any power usually possessed by private corporations performing similar functions, which is not in conflict with the constitution and laws of this state;
(10)
The authority and any trustee acting under any trust indenture, are specifically authorized from time to time to sell, lease, grant, exchange or otherwise dispose of any surplus property, both real and personal, or interest therein not required in the normal operation of and usable in the furtherance of the purpose for which the authority was created, except as such right and power may be limited as provided in section 18 hereof [§ 149 of the appendix];
(11)
To do all things necessary or convenient to carry out the powers expressly given in this act [part].
(Acts 1969, p. 2567, § 4)
Sec. 135. - Sale of alcoholic beverages on premises of the authority.
No alcoholic beverages may be sold upon the premises of the authority unless the sale of such beverages within the confines of DeKalb County has been authorized pursuant to the applicable provisions of law.
(Acts 1969, p. 2567, § 4A)
Sec. 136. - Revenue bonds—Issuance.
The authority, or any authority or body which may in the future succeed to the powers, duties and liabilities vested in the authority created hereby, shall have power and is hereby authorized at one (1) time, or from time to time, to provide by resolution for the issuance of negotiable revenue bonds, for the purpose of paying all or any part of the cost, as herein defined, of any one (1) or more projects. The principal of and interest on such revenue bonds shall be payable solely from the special fund herein provided for such payment. The bonds of each issue shall be dated, shall bear interest at such rate or rates not exceeding the maximum limit prescribed in the Revenue Bond Law as now or hereafter amended, shall be payable semiannually, shall mature at such time or times not exceeding forty (40) years from their date or dates, shall be payable in such medium of payment as to both principal and interest as may be determined by the authority, and may be made redeemable before maturity, at the option of the authority, at such price or prices and under such terms and conditions as may be fixed by the authority in the resolution providing for the issuance of the bonds. Such revenue bonds or obligations shall be issued pursuant to and in conformity with the Revenue Bond Law [O.C.G.A. § 32-82-60 et seq.], as now or hereafter amended, and all procedures pertaining to such issuance and the conditions thereof shall be the same as those contained in said Revenue Bond Law and any amendments thereto.
(Acts 1969, p. 2567, § 5)
Sec. 137. - Same—Form; place of payment.
The authority shall determine the form of the bonds, including any interest coupons to be attached thereto, and shall fix the denomination or denominations of the bonds and the place or places of payment of principal and interest thereof, which may be at any bank or trust company within or without the state. The bonds may be issued in coupon or registered form, or both, as the authority may determine and provision may be made for the registration of any coupon bond as to principal alone and also as to both the principal and interest.
(Acts 1969, p. 2567, § 6)
Sec. 138. - Same—Signatures; seal.
All such bonds shall bear the manual or facsimile signature of the chairman or vice-chairman of the authority, which shall be attested to by the secretary and treasurer of the authority and the official seal of the authority shall be affixed thereto. Any coupons attached thereto shall bear the facsimile signature of the secretary and treasurer of the authority. In case any officer whose manual or facsimile signature shall appear on any bonds or whose facsimile signature shall appear on any coupon shall cease to be such officer before the delivery of such bonds, such signature shall nevertheless be valid and sufficient for all purposes the same as if he had remained in office until such delivery.
(Acts 1969, p. 2567, § 7)
Sec. 139. - Same—Negotiability; exemption from taxation.
All revenue bonds issued under the provisions of this act [part] shall have and are hereby declared to have all the qualities and incidents of negotiable instruments under the laws of the state. Such bonds are declared to be issued for an essential public and governmental purpose and the said bonds and the income thereof shall be exempt from all taxation within the state.
(Acts 1969, p. 2567, § 8)
Sec. 140. - Same—Sale price.
The authority may sell such bonds in such manner and for such price as it may determine to be for the best interest of the authority, but no such sale shall be made at a price less than par as provided in the Revenue Bond Law, unless said Revenue Bond Law be hereafter amended to permit the sale of such bonds at less than par in which case the sale of bonds by the authority at less than par shall be permitted.
(Acts 1969, p. 2567, § 9)
Sec. 141. - Proceeds of bonds.
The proceeds of such bonds shall be used solely for the payment of the cost of project or projects, and unless otherwise provided in the resolution authorizing the issuance of the bonds or in any trust indenture, additional bonds may in like manner be issued to provide the amount of any deficit, which, unless otherwise provided in the resolution authorizing the issuance of the bonds or in any trust indenture, shall be deemed to be of the same issue and shall be entitled to payment from the same fund without preference or priority of the bonds first issued for the same purpose. If the proceeds of the bonds of any issue shall exceed the amount required for the purpose for which such bonds are issued, the surplus shall be paid into such funds as may be provided in the resolution authorizing the issuance of the bonds or in any trust indenture.
(Acts 1969, p. 2567, § 10)
Sec. 142. - Interim receipts and certificates or temporary bonds.
Prior to the preparation of definitive bonds, the authority may, under like restrictions, issue interim receipts, interim certificates or temporary bonds, with or without coupons, exchangeable for definitive bonds upon the issuance of the latter.
(Acts 1969, p. 2567, § 11)
Sec. 143. - Replacement of lost or mutilated bonds.
The authority may also provide for the replacement of any bond which shall become mutilated or be destroyed or lost.
(Acts 1969, p. 2567, § 12)
Sec. 144. - Conditions precedent to bond issuance; object of issuance.
Such revenue bonds may be issued without any other proceedings or the happening of any other conditions or things than those proceedings, conditions and things which are specified or required by this act [part]. In the discretion of the authority, revenue bonds of a single issue may be issued for the purpose of any particular project. Any resolution, providing for the issuance of revenue bonds under the provisions of this act [part] shall become effective immediately upon its passage and need not be published or posted, and any such resolution may be passed at any regular or special or adjourned meeting of the authority by a majority of the quorum as in this act [part] provided.
(Acts 1969, p. 2567, § 13)
Sec. 145. - Obligation of authority does not constitute debt of any city or county.
Obligations of the authority issued under the provisions of this act [part] shall not be deemed to constitute a debt of any city or county in the State of Georgia, but such obligations shall be payable solely from the fund hereinafter provided for and the issuance of such obligations shall not directly, indirectly or contingently obligate any city or county in said state to levy or to pledge any form of taxation whatever therefor or to make any appropriation for their payment, and all such obligations shall contain recitals covering substantially the foregoing provisions of this section.
(Acts 1969, p. 2567, § 14)
Sec. 146. - Trust indenture as security for issuance of bonds.
In the discretion of the authority, any issue of such revenue bonds may be secured by a trust indenture by and between the authority and a corporate trustee, which may be any trust company or bank having the powers of a trust company within or outside of the state. Such trust indenture may pledge or assign fees, tolls, revenues and earnings to be received by the authority, including the proceeds derived from the sale, from time to time, of any surplus property of the authority, both real and personal. Either the resolution providing for the issuance of revenue bonds or such trust indenture may contain such provisions for protecting and enforcing the rights and remedies of the bondholders as may be reasonable and proper and not in violation of law, including covenants setting forth the duties of the authority in relation to the acquisition of property, the construction of the project, the maintenance, operation, repair and insurance of the property, and the custody, safeguarding and application of all monies, including the proceeds derived from the sale of property of the authority, both real and personal, and may also provide that any project shall be constructed and paid for under the supervision and approval of consulting engineers or architects employed or designated by the authority and satisfactory to the original purchasers of the bonds issued therefor, and may also require that the security given by contractors and by any depository of the proceeds of the bonds or revenues or other monies be satisfactory to such purchasers, and may also contain provisions concerning the conditions, if any, upon which additional revenue bonds may be issued. It shall be lawful for any bank or trust company incorporated under the laws of this state to act as such depository and to furnish such indemnifying bonds or pledge such securities as may be required by the authority. Such indenture may set forth the rights and remedies of the bondholders and of the trustee, and may restrict the individual right of action of bondholders as is customary in trust indentures securing bonds and debentures of corporations. In addition to the foregoing, such trust indenture may contain such other provisions as the authority may deem reasonable and proper for the security of the bondholders. All expenses incurred in carrying out such trust indenture may be treated as a part of the cost of maintenance, operation and repair of the project affected by such indenture.
(Acts 1969, p. 2567, § 15)
Sec. 147. - Payment of proceeds of sale of bonds.
The authority shall, in the resolution providing for the issuance of revenue bonds, or in the trust indenture, provide for the payment of the proceeds of the sale of the bonds to any officer or person who or any agency, bank or trust company which shall act as trustee of such funds and shall hold and apply the same to the purposes hereof, subject to such regulations as this act [part] and such resolution or trust indenture may provide.
(Acts 1969, p. 2567, § 16)
Sec. 148. - Sinking fund.
The revenues, fees, tolls and earnings derived from any particular project or projects, regardless of whether or not such revenues, fees, tolls and earnings were produced by a particular project for which bonds have been issued and any monies derived from the sale of any properties, both real and personal, of the authority, unless otherwise pledged and allocated, may be pledged and allocated by the authority to the payment of the principal and interest on revenue bonds of the authority as the resolution authorizing the issuance of bonds or the trust indenture may provide, and such funds as pledged from whatever source received, which said pledge may include funds received from one (1) or more or all sources, shall be set aside at regular intervals as may be provided in the resolution or trust indenture, into a sinking fund which said sinking fund shall be pledged to and charged with the payments of (1) the interest upon such revenue bonds as such interest shall fall due, (2) the principal of the bonds as the same shall fall due, (3) the necessary charges of paying agent or agents for paying principal and interest, and (4) any premium upon bonds retired by call or purchase as hereinabove provided. The use and disposition of such sinking fund shall be subject to such regulations as may be provided in the resolution authorizing the issuance of the revenue bonds or in any trust indenture, but, except as may otherwise be provided in such resolution or trust indenture, such sinking fund shall be a fund for the benefit of all revenue bonds without distinction or priority of one over another. Subject to the provisions of the resolution authorizing the issuance of the bonds or in any trust indenture, surplus monies in the sinking fund may be applied to the purchase or redemption of bonds and any such bonds so purchased or redeemed shall forthwith be cancelled and shall not again be issued.
(Acts 1969, p. 2567, § 17)
Sec. 149. - Remedies of bondholders.
Any holder of revenue bonds issued under the provisions of this act [part] or any of the coupons appertaining thereto, and the trustee under the trust indenture, if any, except to the extent the rights herein given may be restricted by resolution passed before the issuance of the bonds or by any trust indenture, may, either at law or in equity, by suit, action, mandamus, or other proceedings, protect and enforce any and all rights under the laws of the State of Georgia including those granted hereunder or under such resolution or trust indenture, and may enforce and compel performance of all duties required by this act [part] or by such resolution or trust indenture, to be performed by the authority, or any officer thereof, including the fixing, charging and collecting of revenues, fees, tolls and other charges for the use of the facilities and services furnished.
(Acts 1969, p. 2567, § 18)
Sec. 150. - Refunding bonds.
The authority is hereby authorized to provide by resolution for the issue of revenue refunding bonds of the authority for the purpose of refunding any revenue bonds issued under the provisions of this act [part] and then outstanding, together with accrued interest and redemption premium, if any, thereon. The issuance of such revenue refunding bonds, the maturities and all other details thereof, the rights of the holders thereof and the duties of the authority in respect to the same, shall be governed by the foregoing provisions of this act [part] insofar as the same may be applicable.
(Acts 1969, p. 2567, § 19)
Sec. 151. - Venue and jurisdiction.
Any action to protect or enforce any rights under the provisions of this act [part] or any suit or action against such authority shall be brought in the superior court of DeKalb County, Georgia, and any action pertaining to validation of any bonds issued under the provisions of this act [part] shall likewise be brought in said court, which shall have exclusive, original jurisdiction of such actions.
(Acts 1969, p. 2567, § 20)
Sec. 152. - Validation of bonds.
Bonds of the authority shall be confirmed and validated in accordance with the procedure of the Revenue Bond Law [O.C.G.A. § 32-82-60 et seq.], as now or hereafter amended. The petition for validation shall also make party defendant to such action any municipality, county, authority, subdivision or instrumentality of the State of Georgia or the United States government or any department or agency of the United States government, if subject to be sued, which has contracted with the authority for the services and facilities of the project for which bonds are to be issued and sought to be validated and such municipality, county, authority, subdivision or instrumentality shall be required to show cause, if any, why such contract or contracts and the terms and conditions thereof should not be inquired into by the court and the validity of the terms thereof be determined and the contract or contracts adjudicated as security for the payment of any such bonds of the authority. The judgment of validation shall be final and conclusive with respect to such bonds, against the authority issuing the same, and against any municipality, county, authority, subdivision or instrumentality of the State of Georgia or the United States government, if a party to the validation proceedings, contracting with the said DeKalb County coliseum authority.
(Acts 1969, p. 2567, § 21)
Sec. 153. - Interest of bondholders protected.
While any of the bonds issued by the authority remain outstanding, the powers, duties or existence of said authority, or of its officers, employees or agents, shall not be diminished or impaired in any manner that will affect adversely the interest and rights of the holders of such bonds, and no other entity, department, agency or authority will be created which, through the construction or acquisition of facilities in DeKalb County similar to those of the authority, will compete with the authority to such an extent as to affect adversely the interest and rights of the holders of such bonds. The provisions of this act [part] shall be for the benefit of the authority and the holders of any such bonds, and upon the issuance of bonds under the provisions hereof, shall constitute a contract with the holders of such bonds.
(Acts 1969, p. 2567, § 22)
Sec. 154. - Monies received considered trust funds.
All monies received pursuant to the authority of this act [part], whether as proceeds from the sale of revenue bonds, as grants or other contributions, revenues, income, fees and earnings, shall be deemed to be trust funds to be held and applied solely as provided in this act [part].
(Acts 1969, p. 2567, § 23)
Sec. 155. - Purpose of the authority.
Without limiting the generality of any provisions of this act [part], the general purpose of the authority is declared to be that of acquiring, constructing, equipping, maintaining and operating a coliseum for athletic, sporting, cultural, religious, political, musical, educational and other events; the usual facilities related thereto, including, without limitation, refreshment stands and restaurants, and facilities for the purveying of foods, beverages, publications, souvenirs, novelties, and goods of all kinds, whether operated or purveyed directly, or indirectly through concessions, licenses, leases or otherwise, and parking facilities or parking area in connection therewith; the extension and improvement of such facilities; acquiring the necessary property therefor, both real and personal, with the right to contract for the use of or to lease or sell any or all of such facilities, including real property, to any person, firms or corporations whether public or private, and to do any and all things deemed by the authority necessary, convenient and desirable for and incidental to the efficient and proper development and operation of such coliseum.
(Acts 1969, p. 2567, § 24)
Sec. 156. - Rates, charges and revenues; use.
The authority is hereby authorized to prescribe and fix and collect rates, fees, tolls and charges, and to revise from time to time and collect such rates, fees, tolls and charges for the services, facilities or commodities furnished, including leases, licenses, concessions or subleases of its land or facilities, or contracts for the use of its land and facilities, and to determine the price and terms at and under which its lands or facilities may be sold, and, in anticipation of the collection of the revenues and income of such undertakings or projects, is authorized to issue revenue bonds as herein provided to finance, in whole or in part, the cost of the acquisition, construction, reconstruction, improvement, equipment, betterment or extension of its lands and facilities and to pledge to the punctual payment of said bonds and interest thereon, all or any part of the revenues and income of such undertakings or projects, including the revenues of improvements, betterments or extensions thereto, thereafter made or the sale of any of its lands and facilities.
(Acts 1969, p. 2567, § 25)
Sec. 157. - Properties exempt from taxation.
The properties of the authority, both real and personal, are declared to be public properties used for the benefit and welfare of the people of the State of Georgia, and not for purposes of private or corporate benefit and income, and such properties and the authority shall be exempt from all taxes and special assessments of any city, county, or the state or any political subdivision thereof; provided, however, that this section shall not prohibit, inhibit or be inconsistent with the leasing or use of authority properties by private persons, corporate or individual, when in the sole judgment of the authority the general public purposes of the authority will be furthered or supported by such a lease or use of its property. The tax exemption herein provided shall not include any exemption from sales and use tax on property purchased by the authority or for use by the authority.
(Acts 1969, p. 2567, § 26)
Sec. 158. - Rules and regulations for operation of projects.
It shall be the duty of the authority to prescribe rules and regulations for the operation of the project or projects constructed under the provisions of this act [part].
(Acts 1969, p. 2567, § 27)
Sec. 159. - Organizational expenses; feasibility study.
DeKalb County is hereby authorized to expend public funds, not to exceed the total amount of twenty thousand dollars ($20,000.00), derived from any lawful source to defray the organizational expenses of the authority and to finance the cost of a feasibility study with respect to the undertaking authorized by this act [part] to develop and promote recreation facilities within said county.
(Acts 1969, p. 2567, § 28)
Sec. 160. - Excise tax funds.
The governing authority of DeKalb County is authorized to appropriate to the authority the proceeds derived from any excise tax collected by DeKalb County upon charges for admissions to events occurring upon the premises owned by the authority.
(Acts 1969, p. 2567, § 29)
Sec. 161. - Powers declared supplemental and additional.
The foregoing sections of this act [part] shall be deemed to provide an additional and alternative method for the doing of the things authorized thereby and shall be regarded as supplemental and additional to powers conferred by other laws, and shall not be regarded as in derogation of any powers now existing.
(Acts 1969, p. 2567, § 30)
Secs. 162—169. - Reserved.
Part D. - DeKalb County Board of Registrations and Elections[5]

Footnotes:
--- (5) ---
Editor's note— The provisions of Acts 2003, §§ 1—19, have been included herein as superseding provisions formerly set out as Article II, Division 4, Part D of this appendix. Former Article II, Division 4, Part D, §§ 170—191, pertained to the Board of Registrations and Elections and derived from Acts 1978, §§ 1—22.

Sec. 170. - Created.
There shall be a DeKalb County Board of Registrations and Elections which shall have jurisdiction over the conduct of primaries and elections and the registration of electors in such county, in accordance with the provisions of this act [part]. The board shall be a continuation of and a successor to the board created under prior law.
(Acts 2003, p. 4200, § 1)
Sec. 171. - Composition; selection of members.
(a)
Such board shall be composed of five (5) members. Each member of the board shall be an elector and a resident of the county and shall be appointed by the chief judge of the superior court of DeKalb County.
(b)
Four (4) of the five (5) members of the board shall be appointed by said chief judge from nominees selected in the following manner:
(1)
Two (2) members of the board shall be nominated by the county executive committee of the political party whose candidate for the office of Governor at the last election for such office received the highest number of votes cast for such office within DeKalb County; and
(2)
Two (2) members of the board shall be nominated by the county executive committee of the political party whose candidate for the office of Governor at the last election for such office received the second highest number of votes cast for such office within DeKalb County.
(c)
The fifth member of the board, to be known as the member at large, shall be appointed by said chief judge, but shall not have been a person nominated pursuant to subsection (b) of this section.
(d)
The county executive committee of a political party making a nomination pursuant to subsection (b) of this section shall nominate potential board members at least thirty (30) days prior to the beginning of the term of office to be filled, or within thirty (30) days of the creation of a vacancy in the office to be filled. In the event that a political party entitled to make a nomination pursuant to subsection (b) of this section does not have an active and functioning county executive committee, the state executive committee of such political party shall make the nomination.
(e)
The chief judge of the superior court of DeKalb County may reject any nominee for appointment to the board and the political party that nominated such rejected nominee shall nominate another qualified person.
(Acts 2003, p. 4200, § 2; 2019 Ga. Laws (Act 287), sec. 1, p. 4188)
Sec. 172. - Eligibility of members.
No person who holds public office, whether elective or appointive, shall be eligible to serve as a member of the board during the term of such office, and the position of membership of any member shall be deemed vacant upon such member qualifying as a candidate for any elective public office. Neither the acting elections supervisor nor the elections supervisor shall be eligible to serve as a member of the board, nor shall either of them be appointed or elected to serve as a member of the board.
(Acts 2003, p. 4200, § 3)
Sec. 173. - Affidavits, certifications of appointment to board.
The appointment of each member of the board shall be made by the chief judge filing an order with the clerk of the superior court that states the name and residential address of the person appointed and certifying that such member has been duly appointed as provided in this Act. The clerk of the superior court shall record each such order on the minutes of the court and shall certify the name of each member appointed to the Secretary of State and provide for the issuance of appropriate commissions to the members as provided by law for registrars.
(Acts 2003, p. 4200, § 4; 2019 Ga. Laws (Act. 287), sec. 2, p. 4189)
Sec. 174. - Selection process for filling vacancies generally; exception.
The chairman of the board shall be elected by a majority of the members of the board.
(Acts 2003, p. 4200, § 5; 2019 Ga. Laws (Act. 287), sec. 3, p. 4189)
Editor's note— Prior to amendment and revision by 2019 Ga. Laws (Act 287), p. 4189, Sec. 174 (Selection process for filling vacancies generally; exception) provided that "In the event any appointing or electing authority fails (1) to make a regular appointment or election within the times specified in section 2 [172] or section 4 [174] or (2) to make an interim appointment or election to fill a vacancy within ninety (90) days after the creation of such vacancy, such regular member or the member to fill such vacancy shall be appointed forthwith by the governing authority of said county. This section shall not apply to the selection process of the member at large; and if the member at large is not appointed in a timely manner, the position of that member shall remain vacant until filled as provided in subsection (b) of section 2 [172] of this act [part]."
Sec. 175. - Terms of members; succession; resignation; removal for cause.
Each appointed or elected member of the board shall:
(1)
Serve for a term of two (2) years and until his or her successor is appointed or elected and qualified, except in the event of resignation or removal as hereinafter provided;
(2)
Be eligible to succeed himself or herself and have the right to resign at any time by giving written notice of his or her resignation to the respective appointing or electing authority and to the clerk of the superior court; and
(3)
Be subject to removal from the board at any time for cause, after notice and hearing, in the same manner and by the same authority as is provided for the removal of registrars.
(Acts 2003, p. 4200, § 6)
Sec. 176. - Interim appointments or elections.
In the event a vacancy occurs in the office of any appointed or elected member before the expiration of his or her term by removal, death, resignation, or otherwise, the respective appointing or electing authority shall appoint or elect a successor to serve for the remainder of the unexpired term. The clerk of the superior court shall be notified of interim appointments or elections and record and certify such appointments or elections in the same manner as the regular appointment or election of members.
(Acts 2003, p. 4200, § 7)
Sec. 177. - Taking office; oath.
(a)
The board members shall take office on July 1 of odd numbered years. The board shall take no official action until the member at large has been certified to the clerk of the superior court.
(b)
Before entering upon his or her duties, each member shall take substantially the same oath as required by law for registrars and shall have the same privileges from arrest.
(Acts 2003, p. 4200, § 8)
Sec. 178. - Duties and powers generally.
The board shall:
(1)
With regard to the preparation for and conduct of elections, succeed to and exercise all duties and powers granted to and incumbent upon the judge of the probate court by general law of whatever nature and kind;
(2)
With regard to preparation for and conduct of primaries, succeed to all the duties and powers granted to and incumbent upon the judge of the probate court by general law of whatever nature and kind; and
(3)
With regard to the registration of electors, succeed to and exercise all powers, duties, and responsibilities conferred upon and incumbent upon the board of registrars pursuant to general law of whatever nature and kind.
(Acts 2003, p. 4200, § 9)
Sec. 179. - Conflicts of rules or regulations.
Any rule or regulation promulgated by a county executive committee with regard to the conduct of primaries shall be null and void if in conflict with a valid rule or regulation of the board of registrations and elections.
(Acts 2003, p. 4200, § 10)
Sec. 180. - Joint primaries.
Nothing in this act [part] shall be construed to require or prohibit joint primaries or to require or prohibit the governing authority or any other public agency to bear any expense of conducting primaries not otherwise required by law.
(Acts 2003, p. 4200, § 11)
Sec. 181. - Distribution of material to inform and instruct electors; contents; cost.
With the consent of the governing authority, the board shall be authorized to expend public funds for the purpose of preparing and distributing material solely to adequately inform and instruct electors of the county with regard to elections. No material distributed by the board shall contain or express, in any manner or form, any commentary or expression of opinion or request for support with respect to any political issue or matter of political concern.
(Acts 2003, p. 4200, § 12)
Sec. 182. - Organization; officers; rules, bylaws.
(a)
The board shall be authorized and empowered to organize itself, elect its officers, determine its procedural rules and regulations, adopt bylaws, specify the functions and duties of its employees, and otherwise take such action as is appropriate to the management of the affairs committed to its supervision; provided, however, that no such action shall conflict with state law.
(b)
Action and decision by the board shall be by a majority of the members of the board.
(c)
The board shall maintain a written record of policy decisions that shall be amended to include additions or deletions. Such written record shall be made available for the public to review.
(Acts 2003, p. 4200, § 13)
Sec. 183. - Meetings generally; record of policy decisions.
This board shall fix and establish by appropriate resolution entered on its minutes directives governing the execution of matters within its jurisdiction. The board shall hold regular monthly meetings to be held at the county courthouse or at such other facility as may be provided by the county for the board's meetings. Any special called meetings, held pursuant to the bylaws adopted by the board, shall be held only after written notification of the time and place of such meeting has been communicated in writing to the person designated by the county governing authority to provide public information. All meetings of whatever kind of the board shall be open to the public.
(Acts 2003, p. 4200, § 14)
Sec. 184. - Elections supervisor—Selection; duties; compensation.
The board shall be responsible for the selection and appointment of an administrative director, to be known as the elections supervisor, to administer and supervise conduct of elections, primaries, and registration of electors for the county. Compensation shall be determined in accordance with and under the merit system established by the governing authority of the county. Compensation for the elections supervisor shall be paid by the governing authority under the merit system wholly from county funds.
(Acts 2003, p. 4200, § 15)
Sec. 185. - Same—Administrative offices and personnel, compensation.
The governing authority of the county shall expend public funds to provide the elections supervisor with such proper and suitable administrative offices and with such clerical assistants and other employees as the governing authority shall deem appropriate in accordance with the merit system. Compensation for such administrative personnel shall be paid by the governing authority under the merit system wholly from county funds.
(Acts 2003, p. 4200, § 16)
Sec. 186. - Pollworkers; selection, appointment, training.
The board shall be responsible for the selection, appointment, and training of pollworkers in elections. Such workers shall be appointed, insofar as practical, from lists provided by the county executive committees of the two (2) major political parties appointing members to the board of registrations and elections.
(Acts 2003, p. 4200, § 17)
Sec. 187. - Compensation for board members.
Compensation for members on the board shall be set at $200.00 a month. Said compensation shall be paid by the governing authority wholly from county funds.
(Acts 2003, p. 4200, § 18; Acts 2005, p. 3780, § 1(18))
Sec. 188. - Definitions.
The words "election," "elector," "political party," "primary," "public office," "special election," and "special primary" [when used in this part] shall have the same meaning ascribed to those words by general state law, as amended, unless otherwise clearly apparent from the text of this act [part]
(Acts 2003, p. 4200, § 19)
Secs. 189—195. - Reserved.
