ARTICLE III. - BUILDINGS AND BUILDING REGULATIONS
DIVISION 1. - GENERALLY

Secs. 201—215. - Reserved.
DIVISION 2. - DANGEROUS BUILDINGS

Sec. 216. - Definition.
(a)
As used in this act [division], the words "dwellings or structures" mean residential as well as other types of buildings which are:
(1)
Abandoned or vacant and which constitute a hazard to the health or safety of persons who may come on or near the property on which such dwellings or structures are located and which are not fenced in or otherwise protected to reasonably prohibit public access thereto; or
(2)
Severely damaged by fire, storm or other natural or man-made causes and which have remained in such damaged condition for a period of six (6) months or more and which constitute a hazard to the health or safety of persons who may come on or near the property on which such dwellings or structures are located; or
(3)
In a condition of being partially constructed and construction thereon has ceased for a period of twelve (12) months or more and which constitute a hazard to the health or safety of persons who may come on or near the property on which such dwellings or structures are located; or
(4)
A combination of the foregoing.
(b)
Any ordinance passed by the governing authority of DeKalb County pursuant to the provisions of this act [division] shall be limited to the definition of dwellings or structures provided by subsection (a) of this section.
(Acts 1975, p. 3927, § 1)
Sec. 217. - Repair, etc., by owner.
The governing authority of DeKalb County, Georgia, as presently constituted or as hereinafter constituted, may pass ordinances or rules and regulations requiring the land owner to repair, close or demolish any dwelling or structure intended for human habitation or occupation which dwellings or structures, as defined in the ordinances of said governing authority, are unfit for human habitation or occupation or which imperil the health, safety and welfare of the citizens of DeKalb County.
(Acts 1975, p. 3927, § 2)
Sec. 218. - Repair, etc., by county; notice.
The governing authority of DeKalb County, Georgia, as presently constituted or as hereinafter constituted, is authorized to pass ordinances or rules and regulations authorizing the repairing, closing or demolition of above-mentioned dwellings or structures at public expense, the cost of which shall constitute a lien upon the property thereof; provided, the land owner refuses to repair same, close same, or demolish same in accordance with the ordinances or rules and regulations of the governing authority; provided, further, that no lien shall be effective unless thirty (30) days prior to the assessment thereof, the land owner and any person or corporation having an interest in said property has been given thirty (30) days' written notice of any action contemplated or authorized by this section. The notice shall state the date, time and place wherein there shall occur a hearing before an officer or board of said county, which officer or board may be appointed by any ordinance or rule or regulation passed by the governing authority of DeKalb County. Said notice shall require the land owner or any person or corporation having an interest in the property concerned to show cause why said dwelling or structure should not be repaired, closed or demolished at public expense. For the purpose of this section, said notice shall be reasonable if given in writing as aforementioned, and posted through the United States mail, certified, with return receipt requested, addressed to the owner of said property as shown on the tax records of the county. In addition, said property shall be posted by a sign, which sign shall give the date, time and place of the hearing referred to herein, and said sign shall be posted conspicuously upon the property and shall be placed thereon thirty (30) days prior to the date, time and place of said hearing. In addition to the foregoing, the governing authority of DeKalb County, Georgia, is authorized to promulgate and pass those ordinances, rules and regulations pursuant hereto necessary to protect the interests of the property owner, and others, in order to ensure that such hearing is conducted pursuant to the principles of due process of law. Where not otherwise provided by county ordinance, rule or regulation, such notice and hearing shall conform substantially with the Georgia Administration Procedure Act.
(Acts 1975, p. 3927, § 3; Ord. No. 79-21, § 1, 7-10-79)
Editor's note— The ordinances shown in the left-hand column below may be found in the acts as shown in the right-hand column below:
EXPAND
Ord. No. Acts
79-21 1980, p. 4577
  Sec. 219. - Procedures.
The governing authority of DeKalb County, Georgia, is authorized to pass ordinances, rules and regulations granting to the county official or board charged with the duty of conducting the hearing referred to in section 3 [218] above, the authority to order the land owner or any person or corporation to repair, close, or demolish the dwellings or structures referred to in sections 1 [216] and 2 [217] above; provided, said order is coupled with a finding of fact that said dwellings or structures are unfit for human habitation, or imperil the health, safety and welfare of the citizens of DeKalb County. Said finding of fact shall be coupled with a brief explanation sufficient to inform the land owner or any person or corporation why said dwelling or structure is deemed to be unfit for human habitation or imperil the health, safety and welfare of the citizens of DeKalb County, Georgia. In no event shall the governing authority of DeKalb County, Georgia, authorize the repairing, closing or demolition of any dwellings or structures herein referred to at public expense until there has elapsed thirty (30) days from the date said land owner, or others, have received the finding of fact of the county's designated hearing officer or board, and the order commanding the land owner and others to repair, close or demolish the dwellings or structures concerned.
(Acts 1975, p. 3927, § 4; Ord. No. 79-21, 7-10-79; Ord. No. 87-10A, § 1, 5-26-87)
Editor's note— The ordinances shown in the left-hand column below may be found in the acts as shown in the right-hand column below:
EXPAND
Ord. No. Acts
79-21 1980, p. 4577
87-10A 1988, p. 5088
  Sec. 220. - Appeal.
Every order or decision of said officer or board of DeKalb County, issued pursuant to the authority contained in sections 3 [218] and 4 [219] above, shall be subject to writ of certiorari issued from the superior court upon the same terms such writs are issued in any case and said order or decision may be appealed by DeKalb County or by any person or persons aggrieved by same.
(Acts 1975, p. 3927, § 5; Ord. No. 79-21, 7-10-79)
Editor's note— The ordinance shown in the left-hand column below may be found in the acts as shown in the right-hand column below:
EXPAND
Ord. No. Acts
79-21 1980, p. 4577
  Sec. 221. - Provisions cumulative.
This act [division] is hereby declared to be cumulative of and supplemental to the powers of the governing authority of DeKalb County provided by heretofore existing laws and not in lieu of any such powers.
(Acts 1975, p. 3927, § 7)
Sec. 222. - Territorial application.
This act [division] shall apply only to those portions of DeKalb County which shall be located outside the corporate limits of any municipality and the governing authority of DeKalb County shall exercise the powers herein conferred only in such unincorporated area.
(Acts 1975, p. 3927, § 8)
Secs. 223—250. - Reserved.
