DIVISION 5. - DEKALB COUNTY CIVIC CENTER AUTHORITY

Sec. 195.1. - Title.
This Act [division] shall be known and may be cited as the "DeKalb County Civic Center Authority Act."
(Acts 1996, p. 4216, § 1)
Sec. 195.2. - Definitions.
As used in this Act [division], the term:
(1)
"Authority" means the DeKalb County Civic Center Authority created in Section 3 of this Act [section 195.3 of this division].
(2)
"Cost of the project" shall embrace the cost of acquisition and construction; the cost of all lands, properties, rights, easements, and franchises acquired and the cost of all conveyances in fee simple of the authority's title thereto and leases thereof; the cost of all machinery, equipment, financing charges, and interest prior to and during construction and for one (1) year after completion; cost of engineering, architectural, fiscal, and legal expenses, and of plans and specifications and other expenses necessary or incident to determining the feasibility or practicability of the project; administrative expenses and such other expenses as may be necessary or incident to the financing authorized by this Act; the acquisition and construction of any project and the placing of the same in operation. Any obligation or expense incurred for any of the foregoing purposes shall be regarded as a part of the cost of the project and may be paid or reimbursed as such out of the proceeds of revenue bonds issued under the provisions of this Act [division] for such project.
(3)
"Project" means and includes the acquisition, construction, equipping, maintenance, and operation of one (1) or more county civic centers and related buildings, the usual and convenient facilities appertaining to such undertaking and extensions, and improvements of such facility; the acquisition of parking facilities or parking areas in connection therewith; the acquisition of the necessary property therefor, both real and personal, and the lease and sale of any part or all of such facilities, including real and personal property, so as to assure the efficient and proper development, maintenance, and operation of such recreational facilities and areas deemed by the authority to be necessary, convenient, or desirable.
(4)
"Revenue bonds," "bonds," and "obligations" mean revenue bonds as defined and provided for in Article 3 of Chapter 82 of Title 36 of the O.C.G.A., the "Revenue Bond Law," and such type of obligations may be issued by the authority as authorized under said Revenue Bond Law and any amendments thereto and, in addition, mean obligations of the authority the issuance of which are specifically provided for in this Act [division].
(5)
Any project shall be deemed "self-liquidating" if, in the judgment of the authority, the revenues and earnings to be derived by the authority therefrom, including the anticipated revenues and earnings from the lease of any project, and all properties used, leased, and sold in connection therewith will be sufficient to pay the cost of acquiring, operating, maintaining and repairing, improving,and extending the project and to pay the principal of and interest on the revenue bonds which may be issued to finance, in whole or in part, the cost of such project or projects.
(Acts 1996, p. 4216, § 2)
Sec. 195.3. - Created; membership.
(a)
There is hereby created a body corporate and politic to be known as the DeKalb County Civic Center Authority, which shall be deemed to be a political subdivision of the State of Georgia and a public corporation by that name, style, and title and said body may contract and be contracted with, sue and be sued, implead and be impleaded, complain and defend in all court of law and equity, except that the authority or the trustee acting under the trust indenture shall in no event be liable for any torts committed by any of the officers, agents, and employees. The authority shall be neither a state institution nor a department or agency of the state but shall be an instrumentality and a mere creation of the state having a distinct corporate entity and being exempt from the provisions of Chapter 17 of Title 50 of the O.C.G.A., the "Georgia State Financing and Investment Commission Act." The authority shall have its principal office in DeKalb County, and its legal situs or residence for the purposes of this Act [division] shall be DeKalb County. The authority is granted the same exemptions and exclusions from taxes as are now granted to cities and counties for the operation of facilities similar to facilities to be operated by the authority as provided under the provisions of this Act [division].
(b)
The authority shall consist of seventeen (17) members who shall be residents of DeKalb County and who shall be appointed as follows:
(1)
Each member of the DeKalb County Board of Commissioners shall appoint from among the residents of his or her district one (1) member;
(2)
The chief executive officer of DeKalb County shall appoint one (1) member;
(3)
The chairperson of the House DeKalb County delegation to the General Assembly shall appoint two (2) members, one (1) of whom shall be a member of such delegation and the chairperson of the Senate DeKalb County delegation to the General Assembly shall appoint three (3) members, one (1)of whom shall be a member of such delegation;
(4)
The president of the DeKalb County Chamber of Commerce shall appoint one (1) member;
(5)
The president of the DeKalb County Convention and Visitors Bureau shall appoint one (1) member;
(6)
The president of the South DeKalb Business Association shall appoint one (1) member; and
(7)
The chairperson of the House DeKalb County delegation to the General Assembly shall appoint a chairperson.
The members initially appointed by the members of the DeKalb County Board of Commissioners shall serve terms of two (2) years, and all other members shall serve initial terms of four (4) years. After expiration of the initial terms, the terms of all members shall be four (4) years. If at the end of any term of office of any member a successor to such member has not been appointed, the member whose term of office has expired shall continue to hold office until a successor is appointed.
(c)
Any member of the authority may be selected and appointed to succeed himself or herself. Immediately after such appointments, the members of such authority shall enter upon their duties.
(d)
Any vacancy on the authority shall be filled in the same manner as was the original appointment of the member whose termination of membership resulted in such vacancy, and the person so selected and appointed shall serve for the remainder of the unexpired term.
(e)
The members of the authority shall appoint a vice chairperson from among the membership.
(f)
A majority of the members of the authority who are duly appointed and who are currently serving as members shall constitute a quorum. No vacancy on the authority shall impair the right of the quorum to exercise all the rights and perform all the duties of the authority.
(g)
The members of the authority shall be reimbursed for all actual expenses incurred in the performance of their duties out of funds of the authority.
(h)
The authority shall make rules and regulations for its own government. It shall have perpetual existence.
(i)
Any member of the authority may be removed from office by the appointing authority for failure to perform his or her duties as a member of the authority. Such failure shall include without limitation the failure to attend a majority of the regularly scheduled meetings in a calendar year. Any office so vacated shall be filled within sixty (60) calendar days by the appointing authority. The new appointee shall serve the remainder of the unexpired term to which he or she is appointed.
(Acts 1996, p. 4216, § 3; Acts 1999, p. 4462, § 1; Acts 2002, p. 4846)
Sec. 195.4. - Powers.
The authority shall have powers:
(1)
To have a seal and alter the same at pleasure;
(2)
To acquire by purchase, lease, or otherwise and to hold, lease, and dispose of real and personal property of every kind and character for its corporate purposes;
(3)
To acquire in its own name by purchase, on such terms and conditions and in such a manner as it may deem proper, real property or rights of easements therein or franchises necessary or convenient for its corporate purposes, to use the same so long as its corporate existence shall continue, to lease or make contracts with respect to the use of the same, or to dispose of the same in any manner it deems to the best advantage of the authority. If the authority shall deem it expedient to construct any property on any lands, the title to which shall then be in the State of Georgia, the Governor is authorized to convey for and in behalf of the state title to such lands to the authority upon payment to the State of Georgia for the credit of the general fund of the state of the reasonable value of such lands or upon the receipt of such lawful consideration as may be determined by the parties to such conveyance. If the authority shall deem it expedient to acquire and construct any project on any lands, the title to which shall then be DeKalb County or any municipality incorporated in said county, the governing authority of said county or any of the said municipalities is authorized to convey title to such land to the authority upon the receipt of such lawful consideration as may be determined by the parties to such conveyance or upon payment for the credit of the general funds of said county or municipalities of the reasonable value of such lands, such value to be determined by mutual consent of said county or municipality and the authority or by an appraiser to be agreed upon by the governing authority or body of said county or municipality and the chairperson of the authority.
(4)
To appoint, select, and employ officers, agents, and employees, including engineering, architectural, and construction experts, fiscal agents, and attorneys and fix their respective compensations;
(5)
To make contracts and leases and to execute all instruments necessary or convenient, including contracts for the acquisition and construction of projects and leases of projects or contracts with respect to the use of projects which it causes to be erected or acquired, including contracts for acquiring, constructing, renting, and leasing of its projects for use of DeKalb County or any municipality in DeKalb County, and to dispose by conveyance of its title in fee simple of real and personal property of every kind and character, and any and all persons, firms, and corporations and the state and any and all subdivisions, departments, institutions, or agencies of the state are authorized to enter into contracts, leases, or agreements with the authority upon such terms and for such purposes as they deem advisable; and, without limiting the generality of the above, authority is specifically granted to municipal corporation and counties and to the authority to enter into contracts and lease and sublease agreements with the State of Georgia or any agencies or departments thereof relative to civic centers facilities and relative to any property which such departments or other agency or department of the State of Georgia has nor or may hereafter obtain by lease from the United States government or any agency or department thereof, and the authority is specifically authorized to convey title in fee simple to any and all of its lands and any improvements thereon to any persons, firms, corporations, municipalities, the State of Georgia or the United States government, or any agency or department thereof, subject to the rights and interest of the holders of any of the bonds or obligations authorized to be issued pursuant to this Act [division] and by the resolutions or trust indenture of the authority authorizing the issuance of any of its bonds or obligations as provided in this Act [division];
(6)
To construct, erect, acquire, own, repair, remodel, maintain, add to, extend, improve, equip, operate, and manage projects, as defined in the Act [division], the cost of any such project to be paid in whole or in part from the proceeds or other funds and any grant from the United States of America or any agency or instrumentality thereof;
(7)
To accept loans and grants of money or materials or property of any kind from the United States of America or any agency or instrumentality thereof, upon such terms and conditions as the United States of America or such agency or instrumentality may impose;
(8)
To accept loans and grants of money or materials or property of any kind from the State of Georgia or any agency or instrumentality or political subdivision thereof, upon such terms and conditions as the State of Georgia or such agency or instrumentality or political subdivision may impose;
(9)
To borrow money for any of its corporate purposes and to execute evidences of such indebtedness and to secure the same and the issue negotiable revenue bonds payable solely from funds pledges for that purpose, and to provide for the payment of the same for the rights of the holders thereof;
(10)
To exercise any power usually possessed by private corporations performing similar functions which it not in conflict with the Constitution and laws of this state;
(11)
The authority and the trustee acting under a trust indenture are specifically authorized from time to time to sell, lease, grant, exchange, or otherwise dispose of any surplus property, both real and personal or interest therein no required in the normal operation of and usable in the furtherance of the purpose for which the authority was created;
(12)
To borrow money for any of its corporate purposes from any bank, banks, or other lending institutions and to execute evidences of such indebtedness and to secure the same by assigning all rights to and pledging all funds to be received by the authority from a lease or leases entered into by the authority as the lessor and DeKalb County as lessee;
(13)
To do all things necessary or convenient to carry out the powers expressly given in this Act [division];
(14)
To advise DeKalb County on land acquisitions, facilities development, and other matters relative to the construction and operation of one (1) or more civic centers.
(Acts 1996, p. 4216, § 4)
Sec. 195.5. - Issuance of negotiable revenue bonds.
The authority, or any authority or body which has or which may in the future succeed to the powers, duties, and liabilities vested in the authority created by this Act [division] shall have the power and is authorized at one (1) time or from time to time to provide by resolution for the issuance of negotiable revenue bonds for the purpose of paying all or any part of the cost as defined in this Act [division] or any one (1) or more projects. The principal of and interest on such revenue bonds shall be payable solely from the special fund provided for in this Act [division] for such payment. The bonds of each issue shall be dated and shall bear interest at such rate or rates as determined by the authority, payable on such dates as determined by the authority. Principal on such bonds shall mature at such time or times not exceeding forty (40) years from their date or dates, shall be payable in such medium of payment as to both principal and interest as may be determined by the authority, and may be made redeemable before maturity at the option of the authority as such price or prices and under such terms and conditions as may be fixed by the authority in the resolution providing for the issuance of the bonds. Such revenue bonds or obligations shall be issued pursuant to and in conformity with Article 3 of Chapter 82 of Title 36, the "Revenue Bond Law," and all procedures pertaining to such issuance and the conditions thereof shall be the same as those contained in said Revenue Bond Law and any amendments thereto.
(Acts 1996, p. 4216, § 5)
Sec. 195.6. - Revenue bonds exempt from taxation within the state.
All revenue bonds issued under the provisions of this Act [division] are declared to be issued for an essential public and governmental purpose, and the said bonds and the income thereof shall be exempt from all taxation within the state.
(Acts 1996, p. 4216, § 6)
Sec. 195.7. - Bonds; selling thereof; proceeds.
The authority may sell such bonds in such manner and for such price as it may determine to be for the best interest of the authority, and the proceeds derived from the sale of such bonds shall be used solely for the purpose provided in the proceedings authorizing the issuance of such bonds.
(Acts 1996, p. 4216, § 7)
Sec. 195.8. - Conditions for issuance of revenue bonds.
Such revenue bonds may be issued without any other proceedings or the happening of any other conditions or things than those proceedings, conditions, and things which are specified in or required by this Act [division] and Article 3 of Chapter 82 of Title 36, the "Revenue Bond Law." Any resolution providing for the issuance of revenue bonds under the provisions of this Act [division] shall become effective immediately upon its passage and need not be published or posted, and any such resolution may be passed at any regular or special or adjourned meeting of the authority by a majority of its members.
(Acts 1996, p. 4216, § 8)
Sec. 195.9. - Revenue bonds; obligation to make payment.
Revenue bonds issued under the provisions of this Act [division] shall be deemed to constitute neither a debt of the State of Georgia or DeKalb County nor a pledge of the faith and credit thereof; but such bonds shall be payable solely from the rentals, revenues, earnings, and funds of the authority as provided in the resolution or trust agreement or indenture authorizing the issuance and securing the payment of such bonds; and the issuance of such revenue bonds shall not directly, indirectly, or contingently obligate the state or any political subdivision thereof, including specifically said county, to levy or to pledge any form of taxation whatever therefor or to make any appropriation for their payment, and all such bonds shall contain recitals on their face covering substantially the foregoing provisions of this section. However, DeKalb County and any other political subdivision contracting with the authority may obligate themselves to pay the amounts required under any contract entered into with the authority from funds received from taxes to be levied and collected for that purpose to the extent necessary to pay the obligations contractually incurred under this section, and from any other source; and the obligation to make such payments shall constitute a general obligation and a pledge of the full faith and credit of the obligator but shall not constitute a debt of the obligor within the meaning of the Constitution of the State of Georgia, Article IX, Section V, Paragraph I; and, when such obligation is made to make such payments from taxes to be levied for that purposes, then the obligation shall be mandatory to levy and collect such taxes from year to year in an amount sufficient to fulfill and fully comply with the terms of such obligation.
(Acts 1996, p. 4216, § 9)
Sec. 195.10. - Earnings; disposition thereof.
The revenues, rents, and earnings derived from any particular project or projects, and any and all revenue, rents, and earnings received by the authority, regardless of whether such revenues, rents, and earnings were produced by a particular project for which bonds have been issued, unless otherwise pledged, may be pledged by the authority to the payment of the principal of and interest on revenue bonds of the authority as may be provided in any resolution authorizing the issuance of such bonds or in any trust instrument pertaining to such bonds, and such funds as pledged, from whatever source received, may include funds received from one (1) or more of all sources and may be set aside at regular intervals into sinking funds for which provision may be made in any such resolution or trust instrument and which may be pledged to and charged with the payment of:
(1)
The interest upon such revenue bonds as such interest shall become due;
(2)
The principal of the bonds as the same shall mature;
(3)
The necessary charges of any trustee or paying agent for paying such principal and interest; and
(4)
Any premium upon bonds retired by call or purchase. The use and disposition of any sinking fund may be subject to such regulation as may be provided for in the resolution authorizing the issuance of the bonds or in the trust instrument securing the payment of the same.
(Acts 1996, p. 4216, § 10)
Sec. 195.11. - Tax exemptions of the authority.
The exercise of the powers conferred upon the authority in this Act [division] shall constitute as essential governmental function for a public purpose and the authority shall be required to pay not taxes or assessments upon any of the property acquired by it or under its jurisdiction, control, possession, or supervision or upon its activities in the operation and maintenance of property acquired by it or of buildings erected or acquired by it or any fees, rentals, or other charges for the use of such property or buildings or other income received by the authority. The tax exemption provided in this Act [division] shall not include an exemption from sale and use tax on property purchased by or for the use of the authority.
(Acts 1996, p. 4216, § 11)
Sec. 195.12. - Immunity and exemption from liability for torts and negligence.
The authority shall have the same immunity and exemption from liability for torts and negligence as the State of Georgia and the officers, agents, and employees of the authority when in performance of work of the authority and shall have the same immunity and exemption from liability for torts and negligence as officers, agents, and employees of the State of Georgia. The authority may be sued the same as private corporations on any contractual obligation of the authority.
(Acts 1996, p. 4216, § 12)
Sec. 195.13. - Property of authority not subject to sale.
The property of the authority shall not be subject to levy and sale under legal process.
(Acts 1996, p. 4216, § 13)
Sec. 195.14. - Suits or actions enforcing the rights of or against the authority.
Any action to protect or enforce any rights under the provisions of this Act [division] or any suit or action against such authority shall be brought in the Superior Court of DeKalb County, Georgia, and any action pertaining to validation of any bonds issued under the provisions of this Act [division] shall likewise be brought in said court which shall have exclusive, original jurisdiction of such actions.
(Acts 1996, p. 4216, § 14)
Sec. 195.15. - Validation of revenue bonds.
Bonds of the authority shall be confined and validated in accordance with the procedure of Article 3 of Chapter 82 of Title 36 of the O.C.G.A., the "Revenue Bond Law." The petition for validation shall also make party defendant to such action the State of Georgia or any municipality, county, authority, political subdivision, or instrumentality of the State of Georgia or the United States government or any department or agency of the United States government, if subject to being sued and if consenting to same, which has contracted with the authority for the services and facilities of the project for which bonds are to be issued and sought to be validated, and the state or such municipality, county, authority, political subdivision, or instrumentality shall be required to show cause, if any, why such contract or contracts and the terms and conditions thereof should not be inquired into by the court and the validity of the terms thereof be determined and the contract or contracts adjudicated as part of the basis of the security for the payment of any such bonds of the authority. The bonds when validated and the judgment of validation shall be final and conclusive with respect to such bonds and the security for the payment thereof and interest thereon and against the authority issuing the same, the state and any municipality, county, authority, political subdivision, or instrumentality, if a party to the validation proceedings, contracting with the authority.
(Acts 1996, p. 4216, § 15)
Sec. 195.16. - Competition with authority while bonds remain outstanding.
While any of the bonds issued by the authority remain outstanding, the powers, duties, or existence of said authority or of its officers, employees, or agents shall not be diminished or impaired in any manner that will affect adversely the interest and rights of the holders of such bonds, and no other entity, department, agency, or authority will be created which will compete with the authority to such an extent as to affect adversely the interest and rights of the holders of such bonds, nor will the state itself so compete with the authority. The provisions of this Act [division] shall be for the benefit of the authority and the holders of any such bonds, and the issuance of bonds under the provisions of this Act [division] shall constitute a contract with the holders of such bonds.
(Acts 1996, p. 4216, § 16)
Sec. 195.17. - Funds received; disposition.
All funds received pursuant to the authority of this Act [division], whether as proceeds from the sale of revenue bonds or as revenue, rents, fees, charges, or other earnings or as grants, gifts, or other contributions shall be deemed to be trust funds to be held and applied by the authority solely as provided in this Act [division], and the bondholders entitled to receive the benefits of such funds shall have a lien on all such funds until the same are applied as provided for in any such resolution or trust instrument of the authority.
(Acts 1996, p. 4216, § 17)
Sec. 195.18. - Act [division] to be liberally construed.
This Act [division] and any other law enacted with reference to the DeKalb County Civic Center Authority shall be liberally construed for the accomplishment of its purposes.
(Acts 1996, p. 4216, § 18)
Sec. 195.19. - Scope.
The scope of the authority's operation shall be limited to the territory embraced within Dekalb County.
(Acts 1996, p. 4216, § 19)
Sec. 195.20. - Dissolution of authority; disposition of property.
Should the authority for any reason be dissolved after full payment of all bonded indebtedness incurred under the provisions of this Act [division], both as to principal and interest, title to all property of any kind and nature, real and personal, held by the authority at the time of dissolution shall be conveyed to DeKalb County; or title to any such property may be conveyed prior to such dissolution in accordance with provisions which may be made therefor in any resolution or trust instrument relating to such property, subject to any liens, leases, or other encumbrances outstanding against or in respect to said property at the time of such conveyance.
(Acts 1996, p. 4216, § 20)
Sec. 195.21. - Repeal of conflicting provisions.
All laws and parts of laws in conflict with this Act [division] are repealed.
(Acts 1996, p. 4216, § 21)
