ARTICLE IX. - HEALTH AND HUMAN SERVICES
DIVISION 1. - GENERALLY

Sec. 401. - Vacancies in hospital authority membership.
Any vacancy occurring in the membership of the DeKalb County hospital authority for any reason, including vacancies occurring because of expiration of terms, shall hereafter be filled by the governing authority of DeKalb County by a majority vote to the full membership of said governing authority.
(Acts 1969, p. 3611, § 1)
State Law reference— Hospital Authorities Law, O.C.G.A. § 31-7-70 et seq.
Sec. 402. - Hospitalization contracts.
And except that the City of Atlanta, Fulton County, and DeKalb County, or either of these political subdivisions, may jointly and severally, by a majority vote of the governing body, or bodies, of the respective political subdivisions, enter into contracts each with the other, or with a duly authorized and created hospital authority, and assume thereby definite and fixed future liabilities or obligations for the period of time provided under and in furtherance of the general powers and obligations pertaining to hospitalization authorized by article 7, section 6, paragraph 3, of the constitution and may agree to levy and levy and collect a tax within the millage limitation as prescribed by the Hospital Authority Act, Georgia Laws 1941, page 241 et seq. [now O.C.G.A. § 31-7-70 et seq.], and any amendments thereto, for the purpose of complying with the terms of any contract so entered into; such contracts so entered into, and the liabilities or obligations arising thereunder shall not require an election for that purpose, and such liabilities or obligations so assumed thereby shall not be deemed within the debt limitation provision of the constitution.
(Acts 1943, p. 18, § 1)
Editor's note— The above is a local constitutional amendment to Ga. Const. 1877, art. VII, § VII, par. I. Pursuant to Ga. Const. 1983, art. XI, § I, par. IV, and subject to certain exceptions, constitutional amendments were repealed as of July 1, 1987 unless continued by one (1) of the methods provided in such paragraph on or before such date. The above amendment was continued by Acts 1986, p. 4783. The introductory language for the amendment which states what portion of the constitution is amended has been deleted.
Secs. 403—425. - Reserved.
DIVISION 2. - DEVELOPMENTAL DISABILITIES PLANNING AND COORDINATING COUNCIL

Sec. 426. - Definitions.
As used in this act [division]:
(a)
Developmentally disabled shall mean and include individuals with a developmental disability.
(b)
Developmental disability means a disability of a person which:
(1)

(i)
Is attributable to mental retardation, cerebral palsy, epilepsy, autism or severe neurological dysfunctions;
(ii)
Is attributable to any other condition of a person found to be closely related to mental retardation because such condition results in similar impairment of general intellectual functioning or adaptive behavior to that of mentally retarded persons or requires treatment and services similar to those required for such persons; or
(iii)
Is attributable to dyslexia resulting from a disability described in (i) or (ii);
(2)
Originates before such person attains age eighteen (18);
(3)
Has continued or can be expected to continue indefinitely; and
(4)
Constitutes a substantial handicap to such person's ability to function normally in society.
(Acts 1976, p. 2526, § 5)
Sec. 427. - Created; members.
There is hereby created and established the developmental disabilities planning and coordinating council of DeKalb County. The council shall consist of such members as shall be appointed by the board of commissioners of DeKalb County. The members of the council shall be appointed by the board of commissioners from candidates recommended by representatives of the interests comprising the membership areas. The council shall include members who are elected or appointed officials of the county or municipal governments within DeKalb County, members who are representatives of consumers, and members who are representatives of organizations, groups and associations providing services for individuals with developmental disabilities. The members representing elected or appointed officials shall include at least one (1) representative from the board of commissioners, at least one (1) representative from the DeKalb County board of education, and at least one (1) representative from the board of education of the Decatur school system. Members representing consumers shall include representatives of more than one (1) disability group, and a majority of such consumer members shall either be receiving services within the county themselves or shall have a relative actively receiving such services. The district health director of DeKalb County or his appointed representative shall be a member of the council, and the director of DeKalb County mental health and retardation services or his appointed representative.
(Acts 1976, p. 2826, § 1)
Sec. 428. - Purpose.
It shall be the duty of the council to provide and to assist in providing effective services to the developmentally disabled citizens of DeKalb County. The general assembly hereby recognizes that the provision of effective services to the developmentally disabled is a complex and demanding undertaking and further recognizes that developmental disability begins in early childhood and affects a person and his family throughout his life span. The general assembly further recognizes that a wide range of service[s], coordinated to changing needs and advancing age, is necessary to insure that people with developmental disabilities are provided with the greatest possible participation in the life and activities of their communities.
(Acts 1976, p. 2826, § 2)
Sec. 429. - Duties.
It shall be the duty of the council created by the provisions of this act [division] to:
(a)
Encourage and assist the various governmental and private agencies and citizen's groups involved in providing for the needs of the developmentally disabled to enter into agreements to share resources in the creation of a countywide plan for coordinating efforts to assist the developmentally disabled;
(b)
Plan and develop more comprehensive services and manage available shared resources in providing for the needs of the developmentally disabled;
(c)
To prepare an annual county unified services plan which specifies interagency agreements and joint projects to develop more comprehensive service and priorities for staff activities;
(d)
To review budgets and grant proposals from agencies serving the developmentally disabled;
(e)
Serve as the applicant and administering agency for available group grant moneys, without assuming actual responsibility for the administration of existing services;
(f)
Seek county or private funding to assist in providing services or to match available federal moneys for the provision of such services;
(g)
Utilize available funds and shared resources to operate services which cannot otherwise be provided;
(h)
Use available moneys, both public and private, within any restrictions imposed by the agencies, organizations, associations or persons providing such funds to contract for necessary functions and services;
(i)
Establish any committees or subcommittees which may be necessary or useful to the functions and duties of the council;
(j)
Collect information relative to the amount and kinds of services provided within the county for the developmentally disabled and to develop and implement means of evaluating the effectiveness and quality of such services; and
(k)
Perform such other duties as may be assigned to the council by the board of commissioners of DeKalb County.
(Acts 1976, p. 2826, § 3)
Sec. 430. - Contractual agreements; acceptance and expenditure of money.
The council is hereby authorized to enter into contractual agreements necessary or convenient to carry out the purposes or functions of the council. The council shall be further authorized to accept and expend moneys or other property from private sources for the purposes provided in this act [division].
(Acts 1976, p. 2826, § 4)
Secs. 431—450. - Reserved.
DIVISION 3. - MEDICAL EXAMINER

Sec. 451. - Authority to abolish office of coroner and create office of medical examiner.
Notwithstanding any other provision of this constitution to the contrary, the general assembly may abolish the office of coroner of DeKalb County; may create in lieu thereof the office of medical examiner of DeKalb County; and may provide for the selection, term, qualifications, compensation and expenses, powers, duties, functions, and all other matters relating to such medical examiner all without respect to uniformity. The authority provided by this paragraph may be exercised by the general assembly notwithstanding any general law heretofore or hereafter enacted dealing with the subject matter of this paragraph, and any local law adopted pursuant to the authority of this paragraph shall control the subject matter thereof as to DeKalb County, notwithstanding the provisions of any conflicting general law.
(Acts 1980, p. 2106, § 1)
Editor's note— The above is a local constitutional amendment to Ga. Const. 1976, art. IX, § II, par. VII. Pursuant to Ga. Const. 1983, art. XI, § I, par. IV, and subject to certain exceptions, constitutional amendments were repealed as of July 1, 1987 unless continued by one (1) of the methods provided in such paragraph on or before such date. The above amendment was continued by Acts 1958, p. 3800. The introductory language for the amendment which states what portion of the constitution is amended has been deleted.
Sec. 452. - Office of coroner abolished.
The office of coroner of DeKalb County is hereby abolished, effective January 1, 1981.
(Acts 1980, p. 3827, § 1)
Sec. 453. - Office of medical examiner created; persons eligible.
(a)
There is hereby created the office of medical examiner of DeKalb County. To be eligible to be medical examiner of DeKalb County, a person must:
(1)
Have a doctor of medicine degree and be licensed to practice medicine under the provisions of Code chapter 84-9 [now O.C.G.A. § 43-34-1 et seq.], as now or hereafter amended;
(2)
Be eligible for certification by the American Board of Pathology; and
(3)
Have had at least one (1) year of medico-legal training or one (1) year of active experience in a scientific field in which legal or judicial procedures are involved at the county, state, or federal level.
(b)
Once each year the requirements of the medical examiner of DeKalb County shall be reviewed by the DeKalb Medical Association and the governing authority of DeKalb County. Upon the recommendation of the DeKalb Medical Association and upon approval of the governing authority of DeKalb County, the requirements for the medical examiner may be waived. Any such waiver shall be for a period of one (1) year unless extended by the governing authority of DeKalb County.
(Acts 1980, p. 3827, § 2)
Sec. 454. - Selection; compensation; expenses.
The medical examiner of DeKalb County shall be nominated by the chairman of the board of commissioners of DeKalb County and shall be approved by the board of commissioners of DeKalb County. The medical examiner of DeKalb County shall serve at the pleasure of the board. The first medical examiner of DeKalb County selected under this act [division] shall take office January 1, 1981. The medical examiner of DeKalb County shall be compensated in such amount as shall be determined by the board of commissioners of DeKalb County. All expenses of the office of medical examiner shall be paid by DeKalb County, subject to budgetary limitations.
(Acts 1980, p. 3827, § 3)
Sec. 455. - General duties.
All of the functions of and all of the powers, rights, and duties of and heretofore exercised by the coroner of DeKalb County with reference to post-mortem examinations and autopsies shall be performed by and exercised by the medical examiner of DeKalb County; but said medical examiner shall have no authority to summon and impanel a jury to hold inquests.
(Acts 1980, p. 3827, § 4)
Sec. 456. - Post-mortem examinations.
The medical examiner of DeKalb County shall be authorized to perform all of the functions prescribed for a coroner under the provisions of the "Georgia Post-Mortem Examination Act," approved March 11, 1953 (Ga. Laws 1953, Jan.-Feb. Sess., p. 602) [O.C.G.A. § 44-16-20 et seq.], as now or hereafter amended, except said medical examiner shall have no authority to summons and impanel a jury to hold inquests.
(Acts 1980, p. 3827, § 5)
Sec. 457. - Applicability of certain acts.
The provisions of the "Georgia Post-Mortem Examination Act," approved March 11, 1953 (Ga. Laws 1953, Jan.-Feb. Sess., p. 602) [O.C.G.A. § 44-16-20 et seq.], as now or hereafter amended, including but not limited to the penalty provisions, shall apply in all cases regarding the medical examiner of DeKalb County, except the provisions relating to inquests shall not apply.
(Acts 1980, p. 3827, § 6)
Secs. 458—475. - Reserved.
