Chapter 11 - EMERGENCY MANAGEMENT[1]

Footnotes:
--- (1) ---
State Law reference— General constitutional grant of home rule powers, Ga. Const. art. IX, § II, ¶ I; Georgia Emergency Management Act of 1981, O.C.G.A. § 38-3-1 et seq.

Sec. 11-1. - Definition.
In this chapter "emergency management" means the preparation for and the carrying out of all emergency and disaster functions, other than those functions for which military forces or other state and federal agencies are primarily responsible, to prevent, minimize and repair injury and damage resulting from emergencies or disasters of manmade or natural origin. These functions include, without limitation, firefighting services, police services, medical and health services, rescue, engineering, warning services, communications, protection from radiological and chemical hazards, emergency transportation, plant protection, temporary restoration of public utility services and other functions related to civilian protection, together with all other activities necessary or incidental to total emergency and disaster preparedness for and carrying out of the foregoing functions.
(Code 1976, § 4-2021)
State Law reference— Similar provisions, O.C.G.A. § 38-3-3(2).
Sec. 11-2. - Emergency management director.
In agreement with the governing authority of this county, there is established the emergency management office within the department of fire and rescue services with the director of the department of fire and rescue services appointed as emergency management director. The emergency management director is charged with the following duties:
(1)
To represent the governing officials of the county and cities and/or towns therein on matters pertaining to emergency management.
(2)
To assist county and city officials in organizing county and city departments for emergency operations.
(3)
To develop in conjunction with county departments and agencies the county emergency and disaster operations plan for the functions set forth in section 11-1. Such operations plan will be in consonance with the state emergency and disaster operations plan and shall be submitted to the governing authority of the county for approval.
(4)
To maintain an emergency management office to carry out the day-to-day administration of the county emergency and disaster preparedness programs including the rendering of required reports to the state emergency management agency.
(5)
To render reports such as financial, daily activity, etc., as required by governing officials in keeping with good business practices.
(6)
To maintain with the authority of governing officials a facility to be used as the county emergency operation center.
(7)
To coordinate the activities of the county emergency operating center staff during periods of a declared emergency, and under the supervision of the county governing authority.
(Code 1976, § 4-2022; Ord. No. 11-02, Pt. I, §§ 2, 5, 11-27-01)
Sec. 11-3. - Emergency management organization.
The county emergency management organization shall be established around existing county departments and the emergency functions listed in section 11-1 are assigned as follows:
EXPAND
(1) Public safety:
a. Police services bureau ..... Security
Movement
Search
Communications/warning
b. Fire services bureau ..... Fire control
Hazardous materials control
Rescue
Radiological monitoring
c. Emergency medical services ..... Emergency medical aid
d. Emergency management office ..... Communications/warning
Evacuation
Radiological protection planning
(2) Public works:
a. Roads and drainage ..... Engineering services, roads
b. Water and sewer ..... Engineering services, water
(3) Board of health ..... Health services
(4) Family and children services ..... Social services
(5) Purchasing ..... Administrative services
(6) Office of public information ..... Public information
  The heads of the departments listed above are responsible for developing a departmental plan for the execution of their assigned emergency function and an annex to the county emergency and disaster operations plan. Such annexes will be submitted through the emergency management director to the board of commissioners in conjunction with their approval of the operations plan.
(Code 1976, § 4-2023)
State Law reference— Local emergency management organizations, O.C.G.A. § 38-3-27.
Sec. 11-4. - Emergency powers.
In the event of manmade or natural disaster, actual enemy attack upon the United States or any other emergency which may affect the lives and property of the citizens of the county, the chief executive officer of the county, jointly with the mayors of the cities of Avondale Estates, Chamblee, Clarkston, Decatur, Doraville, Lithonia, Pine Lake and Stone Mountain, or in their absence a legally appointed successor, may declare that a state of emergency exists and thereafter shall have and may exercise for such period as such state of emergency exists or continues, the following emergency powers:
(1)
To enforce all rules, laws and regulations relating to emergency management and to assume direct operational control over all emergency management resources.
(2)
To seize, take for temporary use or condemn any property for the protection of the public.
(3)
To sell, lend, give or distribute all or any such property or supplies among the inhabitants of the county and to maintain a strict accounting of property or supplies distributed and for funds received for such property or supplies.
(4)
To establish, when necessary, local restrictions pertaining to curfew and the sale of liquor, gasoline and weapons.
(5)
To perform and exercise such other functions and duties, and take such emergency actions as may be necessary to promote and secure the safety, protection and well-being of the inhabitants of the county.
(Code 1976, § 4-2024)
State Law reference— Local emergency management rules, O.C.G.A. § 38-3-28.
Sec. 11-5. - Volunteers.
All persons, other than officers and employees of the cities, towns and the county, performing emergency functions pursuant to this chapter, shall serve without compensation. While engaged in such emergency functions, duly assigned volunteers shall have the same immunities as county officers and employees.
(Code 1976, § 4-2025)
Sec. 11-6. - Violation of rules.
No person shall violate any provision of any rule, order or regulation made pursuant to this chapter.
(Code 1976, § 4-2026)
Sec. 11-7. - Prohibited pricing practices during state of emergency.
(a)
It shall be an unlawful, unfair, and deceptive trade practice for any person, firm, or corporation doing business in any area in which a state of emergency, as such term is defined in O.C.G.A. § 38-3-3 or in Dekalb County Code § 11-4, has been declared, for as long as such state of emergency exists, to sell or offer for sale at retail any goods or services necessary to preserve, protect, or sustain the life, health, or safety of persons or their property at a price higher than the price at which such goods were sold or offered for sale immediately prior to the declaration of a state of emergency; provided, however, that such price may be increased only in an amount which accurately reflects an increase in cost of the goods or services to the person selling the goods or services or an increase in the cost of transporting the goods or services into the area.
(b)
Notwithstanding the provisions of subsection (a) of this Code section, a retailer or installer of lumber, plywood, and other lumber products may increase the price of such products as may be necessary to replenish his or her existing daily stock at current market rates, maintaining the same markup percentage he or she applied prior to the state of emergency.
(Ord. No. 98-03, § 1, 4-14-98)
