ARTICLE IV. - AIRPORT AREA DEVELOPMENT RESTRICTIONS[4]
Footnotes:
--- (4) ---
Cross reference— Buildings and building regulations, Ch. 7; land development, Ch. 14; zoning, Ch. 27.

DIVISION 1. - GENERALLY

Secs. 6-201—6-215. - Reserved.
DIVISION 2. - DEKALB-PEACHTREE AIRPORT

Sec. 6-216. - Definitions.
The following words, terms and phrases, when used in this division, shall have the meanings ascribed to them in this section, except where the context clearly indicates a different meaning:
Airport means the DeKalb-Peachtree Airport.
Airport hazard means any structure or tree or use of land that obstructs the airspace required for the flight of aircraft in landing or taking off at the airport or is otherwise hazardous to the landing or taking off of aircraft.
Director means the public works director or the designee thereof.
Landing area means the areas of the airport used for the landing, takeoff or taxiing of aircraft.
Nonconforming use means any structure, tree or use of land that does not conform to this division or an amendment to this division, as of the effective date thereof.
Structure means any object constructed or installed by humans, including, but without limitation, any building, tower, smokestack or overhead transmission line.
Tree means any object of natural growth.
(Code 1976, § 11-3001)
Cross reference— Definitions and rules of construction generally, § 1-2.
Sec. 6-217. - Compliance.
It is unlawful to violate this division or any regulation, order or ruling promulgated under this division.
(Code 1976, § 11-3014)
Sec. 6-218. - Airport zoning maps.
(a)
In order to outline definitely the horizontal and vertical limits beyond which the projection of any structure or tree will constitute an airport hazard, the Airport Zoning Map A and the Zoning Map B, dated July 14, 1960, of the airport is incorporated into this division and made a part hereof.
(b)
The established elevation of the airport is one thousand one (1,001) feet above mean sea level.
(c)
The airport reference point is established at a location described as follows: From the intersection of the centerlines of the NE/SW runway and the NW/SE runway go southwesterly along the centerline of the NE/SW runway a distance of two hundred twenty (220) feet to the airport reference point.
(Code 1976, § 11-3002)
Sec. 6-219. - Zones.
In order to carry out the purposes of this division, airport approach surface zones, horizontal surface zones, conical surface zones and transitional surface zones are established as hereinafter defined and as shown on the airport zoning map. The surface of each of the zones constitutes a ceiling above which no structures or objects of natural growth are to be constructed or allowed to grow.
(1)
Approach surface zone. The approach surface zone is an inclined plane located directly above the approach area. The dimensions of the approach area are measured horizontally. The approach areas for each particular runway are symmetrically located with respect to the extended runway centerlines and have lengths and widths as shown on the airport zoning map, which also show the slopes of the respective approach surface zones.
(2)
Horizontal surface zone. The horizontal surface zone is a plane, circular in shape, with its height one hundred fifty (150) feet above the established airport elevation and having a radius from the airport reference point as indicated on the airport zoning map.
(3)
Conical surface zone. The conical surface zone extends upward and outward from the periphery of the horizontal surface zone with a slope of 20:1 measured in a vertical plane passing through the airport reference point. Measuring radially outward, from the periphery of the horizontal surface zone, the conical surface extends for a horizontal distance as shown on the airport zoning map.
(4)
Transitional surface zones. The transitional surface zones are inclined planes with a slope of 7:1 measured upward and outward in a vertical plane at right angles to the centerline of the runway. The transitional surface zones, symmetrically located on either side of the runway, extend upward and outward from a line on either side of the runway, which is parallel to and level with the runway centerline. These parallel lines are at a horizontal distance from the runway centerline equal to one-half of the minimum width of each approach area as shown on the airport zoning map.
The 7:1 transitional surface also extends from the edges of all approach surfaces upward and outward to the intersection with the horizontal surface, or the conical surface zones, for the entire ten-thousand-foot length of noninstrument approaches. The approach surfaces for instrument runways have a 7:1 transitional surface for their entire length of fifty thousand (50,000) feet. At the outer extremity of the approach, the transitional surface extends a distance of five thousand (5,000) feet, measured horizontally from the edge of the approach surfaces and at right angles to the runway centerline extended. This is shown on the airport zoning map.
(Code 1976, § 11-3003)
Sec. 6-220. - Height limits.
Except as otherwise provided in this division, no structure or tree shall be erected, altered, allowed to grow or maintained in any airport approach surface zone, horizontal surface zone, conical surface zone or transitional surface zone to a height in excess of the height limit established for the zone. For purposes of this section, height limits shown on the airport zoning maps are established for each of the zones in question. If the height limits of two (2) zones covering the same area vary, the lower height limitation is controlling. Notwithstanding any other provisions, this division shall not establish for any particular parcel of land, at any particular point within this parcel, a height limit of less than thirty (30) feet above the surface elevation of the land at that point.
(Code 1976, § 11-3004)
Sec. 6-221. - Use restrictions.
Notwithstanding any other provisions of this division, no use may be made of land within any airport approach surface zone, horizontal surface zone, conical surface zone or transitional surface zone in such a manner as to create electrical interference with radio communication between the airport and aircraft, make it difficult for flyers to distinguish between airport lights and others, result in glare in the eyes of the flyers using the airport, impair visibility in the vicinity of the airport or otherwise endanger the landing, taking off or maneuvering of aircraft.
(Code 1976, § 11-3005)
Sec. 6-222. - Nonconforming uses.
Sections 6-220 and 6-221 do not require removal, lowering or other change or alteration of any structure or tree not conforming to the regulations as of the effective date of the ordinance from which this division is derived, or otherwise interfere with the continuance of any nonconforming use. Nothing shall require any change in the construction, alteration or intended use of any structure, the construction or alteration of which was begun prior to such effective date and is diligently prosecuted and completed within two (2) years thereof.
(Code 1976, § 11-3006)
Sec. 6-223. - Variances.
Any person desiring to erect any structure or increase the height of any structure or permit the growth of any tree or use of property, not in accordance with the provisions of this division, may apply for a variance therefrom. This variance shall be allowed where a literal application or enforcement would result in practical difficulty or unnecessary hardship and the relief granted would not be contrary to the public interest, but would do substantial justice and be in accordance with the spirit of this division.
(Code 1976, § 11-3007)
Sec. 6-224. - Permits.
(a)
Future uses. No material change shall be made in the use of land and no structure or tree shall be erected, altered, planted or otherwise established in any airport approach surface zone, horizontal surface zone, conical surface zone or transitional surface zone unless a permit therefor shall have been applied for and granted. Each application shall indicate the purpose for which the permit is desired, with sufficient particularity to permit it to be determined whether the resulting use, structure or tree would conform to this division. If this determination is in the affirmative, the permit applied for shall be granted.
(b)
Existing uses. Before any existing use, structure or tree may be replaced, substantially altered or repaired, rebuilt, allowed to grow higher or replanted, within any airport approach surface zone, horizontal surface zone, conical surface zone or transitional surface zone, a permit must be secured, authorizing this replacement, change or repair. No such permit shall be granted that would allow the establishment or creation of an airport hazard or permit a nonconforming use, structure or tree to be made or become higher or become a greater hazard to air navigation, than it was on the effective date of the ordinance from which this division is derived or than it is when the application for a permit is made. Except as indicated, all applications for permits for replacement, change or repair of existing uses, structures or trees shall be granted.
(Code 1976, § 11-3008)
Sec. 6-225. - Hazard marking and lighting.
Any permit or variance granted under section 6-223 or 6-224 may, if this action is deemed advisable to effectuate the purposes of this division and reasonable in the circumstances, be so conditioned as to require the owner of the structure or tree in question, at the owner's expense, to install, operate and maintain thereon such markers and lights as may be necessary to indicate to flyers the presence of an airport hazard, or to permit the airport, at its own expense, to install, operate and maintain thereon such markers and lights as may be necessary to indicate to flyers the presence of an airport hazard as specified by the board of appeals.
(Code 1976, § 11-3009)
Sec. 6-226. - Appeals.
(a)
Any person aggrieved, or taxpayer affected, by any decision of the director made in the administration of this division may appeal to the board of appeals.
(b)
All appeals taken under this section must be taken within ten (10) days following the decision appealed from, by filing with the director and with the board, a notice of appeal specifying the grounds thereof. The director shall forthwith transmit to the board all the papers constituting the record upon which the section appealed from was taken.
(c)
An appeal shall stay all proceedings in furtherance of the action appealed from unless the director certifies to the board, after the notice of appeal has been filed with it, that by reason of the facts stated in the certificate a stay would, in the director's opinion, cause imminent peril to life or property. In this case, proceedings shall not be stayed otherwise than by order of the board on notice to the county and on due cause shown.
(d)
The board shall fix a reasonable time for the hearing of the appeal, give public notice and due notice to the parties in interest, and decide it within a reasonable time. Upon the hearing any party may appear in person and/or by agent or by attorney.
(e)
The board may, in conformity with the provisions of this division reverse or affirm, wholly or partly, or modify the order, requirement, decision or determination appealed from and may make such order, requirement, decision or determination as ought to be made, and to that end shall have all the powers of the director.
(f)
The board shall make written findings of fact and conclusions of law giving the facts upon which it acted and its legal conclusions from these facts in reversing or affirming or modifying any order, requirement, decision or determination which comes before it under the provisions of this division.
(g)
The concurring vote of a majority of the members of the board shall be sufficient to reverse any order, requirement, decision or determination of the director, or to decide in favor of the applicant on any matter upon which it is required to pass under this division, or to effect any variation in this division.
(Code 1976, § 11-3010)
Cross reference— Board of appeals, § 27-66 et seq.
Sec. 6-227. - Administrative officer.
The director is designated the administrative officer charged with the duty of administering and enforcing the provisions of this division. The duties of the director include that of hearing and deciding all permits under section 6-224, but the director shall not have or exercise any of the powers or duties herein delegated to the board of appeals.
(Code 1976, § 11-3011)
Sec. 6-228. - Board of appeals.
(a)
There is hereby created a board of appeals to have and exercise the following powers:
(1)
To hear and decide appeals from any order, requirement, decision or determination made by the director in the enforcement of this division.
(2)
To hear and decide special exceptions to the terms of this division and to any amendments hereto.
(3)
To hear and decide specific variances under section 6-223.
(b)
The board of appeals shall be the board set up under the provisions established under chapter 27, article II, division 3 and shall be governed by these provisions.
(Code 1976, § 11-3012)
Sec. 6-229. - Review of decisions of board of appeals.
Any person aggrieved, or taxpayer affected, by any decision of the board of appeals under this division may appeal to the board of commissioners, provided that the appeal is filed within thirty (30) days from the date of the decision of the board of appeals being appealed.
(Code 1976, § 11-3013)
Sec. 6-230. - Conflicting regulations.
Where this division imposes a greater or more stringent restriction upon the use of land than is imposed or required by another ordinance, the provisions of this division shall govern.
(Code 1976, § 11-3015)
