ARTICLE IV. - VETERAN'S PREFERENCE[2]

Footnotes:
--- (2) ---
Editor's note— Ord. No. 06-12, Pt. I, adopted June 27, 2006 repealed in their entirety §§ 20-81—20-86. Further, said ordinance set out provisions for §§ 20-81—20-88 to read as herein set out. Formerly said article pertained to similar subject matter and derived from Code 1976, §§ 2-3081—2-3086.

Sec. 20-81. - Generally.
All candidates and competitors for positions under the merit system (including veterans and their spouses) must meet the minimum requirements for the position sought, and successfully pass the total examination prescribed, if any. Veteran's preference points, if any, shall not be used to raise an otherwise unqualified candidate to a qualified level, nor do veteran's preference points exempt those entitled to them from examination.
Sec. 20-82. - Addition of points to rating—Able-bodied veterans.
(a)
Any veteran who has served on active duty as a member of the Armed Forces of the United States for a period of more than one hundred eighty (180) days (not counting service under an initial period of active duty for training under the six (6) months' reserve or National Guard programs), any portion of which service occurred during a period of armed conflict in which any branch of the Armed Forces of the United States engaged, whether under United States command or otherwise, and who was honorably discharged shall be entitled to and shall have five (5) points added to his or her passing score on any examination for employment in any position under the merit system.
(b)
Notwithstanding the one hundred eighty-day minimum active duty requirement of subsection (a) of this section, the five-point preference granted to veterans under said subsection shall apply to any member of the National Guard or armed forces reserve who served on active duty for:
(1)
Any length of time during any portion of the time the Armed Forces of the United States were engaged in Operation Desert Shield or Operation Desert Storm if such service occurred in an area of imminent danger as defined by the United States Department of Defense as follows:
a.
The Persian Gulf;
b.
The Red Sea;
c.
The Gulf of Oman;
d.
The portion of the Arabian Sea that lies north of ten (10) degrees north latitude and west of sixty-eight (68) degrees east longitude;
e.
The Gulf of Aden; and
f.
The total land area of Saudi Arabia, Kuwait, Iraq, Yemen, Oman, Bahrain, Qatar, and the United Arab Emirates; or
(2)
Any length of time during a period of war or armed conflict in which any branch of the Armed Forces of the United States was engaged after Operation Desert Shield and Operation Desert Storm, whether under United States Command or otherwise.
Sec. 20-83. - Same—Disabled veterans.
Any veteran who qualifies for a preference as provided in section 20-82 in this article and has at least ten (10) percent service-connected disability as rated and certified by the United States Department of Veterans Affairs shall be entitled to and shall have ten (10) points added to his or her passing score on any examination for employment in any position under the merit system. This ten-point preference shall be in lieu of, not in addition to, any other similar preference accorded by this article or federal or state law.
Sec. 20-84. - Spouse of disabled or deceased veteran.
(a)
The spouse of a veteran who qualifies for a preference as provided in section 20-82 in this article shall be entitled to and shall have five (5) points added to his or her passing score on any examination for employment in any position under the merit system if the spouse of the veteran is qualified for the merit system position sought, and if the veteran has a one hundred (100) percent disability that disqualifies him or her from employment.
(b)
The spouse of a veteran, who if living would qualify for a preference as provided in section 20-82 of this article, shall be entitled to and shall have five (5) points added to his or her passing score on any examination for employment in any position under the merit system if the spouse of the veteran is qualified for the position sought and the veteran is deceased.
Sec. 20-85. - Appropriate consideration.
(a)
In the event that a scored examination is not required to qualify for a particular merit system position, "appropriate consideration" may be given to all candidates and competitors for that merit system position who qualify for a veteran's preference under this article.
(b)
"Appropriate consideration" means that:
(1)
A candidate who qualifies for a veteran's preference in this article and meets the minimum requirements for the merit system position sought is entitled to have his or her qualifications presented to the relevant department head or appointing authority for consideration;
(2)
A candidate who qualifies for a veteran's preference in this article may be given preference in appointment to a position under the merit system if his or her qualifications for the position sought are equivalent to those of the best qualified non-veteran applicant for the position.
Sec. 20-86. - Extent of preference.
The veteran's preferences established by this article are confined to entrance to the county's service, and do not apply in the case of examinations for or consideration for promotions.
Sec. 20-87. - Preferential appointment not mandatory.
The appointment of a candidate who qualifies for a veteran's preference is not mandatory, even if his or her qualifications are equivalent to those of the best qualified non-veteran applicant for the position.
Sec. 20-88. - Appointment discretionary.
The appointment of a candidate who qualifies for a veteran's preference is within the discretion of the department head. The department head may select another qualified candidate (who is not entitled to the veteran's preference) whose name has been certified. If this occurs, the director shall return the name of the candidate who qualifies for a veteran's preference to the register for further consideration.
Secs. 20-89—20-100. - Reserved.
