ARTICLE V. - PROBATIONARY STATUS

Sec. 20-101. - Purpose.
The probationary period shall be considered an integral part of the selection process. All employees appointed or promoted to a position in the county's classified service shall be required to satisfactorily complete the probation period prior to achieving permanent status.
(Code 1976, § 2-3091)
Sec. 20-102. - Duration.
The first six (6) months of on-the-job service in a position to which an employee has been appointed or promoted under the provisions of article III covering appointments shall constitute the probation period. The director may fix a different length for the probation period as it applies to positions of one (1) or more classes. The period shall not be fixed at less than three (3) months nor more than twelve (12) months. The length of the probation period shall be the same for all positions in a class.
(Code 1976, § 2-3092)
Sec. 20-103. - Time counted.
Only time in pay and active work status shall be counted toward completion of the probation period. Employees in probation status who are absent on leave-without-pay, or who are absent for reasons under workers' compensation or disability leave, shall be required to complete the amount of time on the job specified for the class to which they are appointed.
(Code 1976, § 2-3093)
Sec. 20-104. - Conditions prerequisite to permanent status.
Supervisors of probationary employees should evaluate those employees periodically during the probation period. Whether formal or informal procedures are used, it is the responsibility of the supervisor to point out areas of deficiency and inform the employee in the correct and expected manner to perform the job. It shall be the responsibility of the department head to obtain a statement in writing from the proper supervisor to the effect that the services of each employee appointed for an initial appointment probation period have or have not been satisfactory and that the employee is or is not recommended to be retained. The statement shall contain an appraisal of the value of the employee's service upon the employee performance evaluation form. The department head shall obtain this statement prior to the completion of the probation period, and make a recommendation to the director. No probation employee shall be considered to have attained permanent status as an employee under the merit system until certified by the director. If the employee is not certified as a permanent status employee, the department head shall notify the employee in writing in advance of the date on which the employee's services are to be terminated, and transmit a copy to the director.
(Code 1976, § 2-3094)
Sec. 20-105. - Probation in promotional position.
The department head shall have the same responsibility to assure evaluation of employees in promotional probation status as the department head has in initial appointment probation status. If it is determined that the employee is unsuitable for the position, the department head shall return the employee to the position previously occupied if it is vacant. If not vacant the department head shall confer with the director relative to placement of the employee in a comparable class of positions for which the employee meets the requirements. If such placement is not feasible, the employee's name shall be placed on the reemployment register. The employee shall receive written notification, prior to the action, stating the reasons for the action. A copy shall be given to the director.
(Code 1976, § 2-3095)
Secs. 20-106—20-120. - Reserved.
