ARTICLE X. - FOOD SERVICE[8]

Footnotes:
--- (8) ---
Editor's note— Ord. No. 08-07, Pt. I, adopted April 8, 2008, amended Art. X in its entirety and enacted similar provisions as set out herein. The former Art. X derived from Ord. No. 89-24, § 1, adopted June 27, 1989; Ord. No. 99-13, Pt. I, adopted May 25, 1999; Ord. No. 01-01, Pt. I, adopted Feb. 13, 2001; and Ord. No. 01-24, Pt. I, adopted Aug. 28, 2001.
The rules and regulations referenced in § 13-281 are on file and available for inspection at the county health department offices.

Sec. 13-281. - Rules and regulations—Adopted.
(a)
All food service shall be in compliance with the July 31, 1995, rules of the department of human resources, public health chapter 290-5-14, Food Service as revised October 8, 2007, which rules and subsequent amendments are hereby adopted by reference as if fully set forth herein. As future new versions, editions and/or amendments of the Georgia Food Service Code are adopted by the department of human resources, as may be codified at chapter 290-5-14 of the rules of department regarding "food service," they shall become part of or replacement for the adopted code, rules, and regulations or standards and shall become enforceable as prescribed without separate adoption by the governing authority of DeKalb County, Georgia.
(b)
The rules identified in subsection (a) have been adopted by the governing authority with the following additions:
(1)
Permit.
(A)
Fees will be assessed by the DeKalb County Board of Health (hereinafter referred to as the "health authority"). Before a food service permit is issued or renewed, all required fees must be paid in the amount established by official action of the health authority and the DeKalb County governing authority, a copy of said fee schedule is to be maintained on file in the office of the clerk of the board of commissioners.
(B)
Food service permits granted by the health authority shall expire on June 30 of each year. Permit holders do not have an automatic right to renewal and such establishments must be in satisfactory compliance with the provisions of the Code for the granting of permits at the time of renewal. All required fees must be received by the health authority within thirty (30) days of the expiration of the permit.
(C)
Permit holders who fail to satisfy compliance with the food service ordinance for DeKalb County or fail to submit fee payments as required, are subject to administrative closure of the establishment.
(2)
Change of ownership of establishment.
(A)
Change of ownership shall not include:
(i)
Withdrawal of one (1) or more partners in favor of one (1) or more partners who were partners at the time of the permit issuance; or
(ii)
Transfer of stock between persons who held stock in the corporate owner at the time of permit issuance which does not result in any person increasing stock holdings to a total of ten (10) or more percent of any class of corporate stock, or any other entity having financial interest in the entity; or
(iii)
Interchanging of ownership names of a corporation such as parent corporation name versus subsidiary name.
(3)
Certified food safety manager (CFSM)—Enforcement.
(A)
Failure to comply with the requirement to employ a CFSM shall subject the establishment to legal action by the health authority which may include court action or suspension of the food service permit.
(B)
The health authority may require the CFSM to complete a refresher course when continuous violations of the Code occur; a food-borne outbreak implicates food processed in the establishment supervised by the CFSM; or when the health authority determines that such a course is necessary to acquaint an owner or operator with current developments in food protection principles.
(C)
After enforcement or penalty actions of any kind, the health authority may:
(i)
Require the owner or operator to develop a risk control plan subject to approval that includes, but is not limited to:
(I)
Identification of hazards in the day-to-day operation of the food service establishment;
(II)
Development and implementation of policies and procedures to prevent food-borne illness;
(III)
Food preparation activities and corrective action taken, as needed, to protect the health of the consumer.
(ii)
Require an additional CFSM be on staff to allow at least one (1) CFSM manager to be physically present whenever the establishment is in operation.
(Ord. No. 08-07, Pt. I, 4-8-08; Ord. No. 08-08, Pt. I, 4-8-08)
Secs. 13-282—13-299. - Reserved.
