ARTICLE II. - AIRPORT ADVISORY BOARD

Sec. 6-16. - Created.
There is created the DeKalb County Airport Advisory Board.
(Code 1976, § 6-4201)
Sec. 6-17. - Determination of need.
It is determined and declared that the present and projected rapid growth in commercial and private air traffic in the county area; the need for adequate airports to safely and efficiently serve the air transportation needs of the state and the county through its metropolitan areas; the need to eliminate airport hazards; the need to raise large amounts of capital for the establishment, operation and maintenance of present and future airports; the need to coordinate the operation of various airports within certain metropolitan areas of the state; the need to ensure the welfare, safety and convenience of citizens of the county and the entire state and to ensure the proper economic development of the entire state; make desirable and proper the creation of an airport advisory board composed of persons expert and knowledgeable in such matters to advise, recommend and consult with the chief executive officer and the board of commissioners in the management and operation of the DeKalb-Peachtree Airport, and the establishment of public policy therefor.
(Code 1976, § 6-4202)
Sec. 6-18. - Members.
(a)
The airport advisory board shall be composed of nine (9) members, each of whom shall be a resident of the county.
(b)
For the purpose of appointing members of the advisory board, there shall be nine (9) posts for membership with appointments made as follows:
(1)
Post 1, the member of the board of commissioners from commissioner district 1 shall make the appointment.
(2)
Post 2, the member of the board of commissioners from commissioner district 2 shall make the appointment.
(3)
Post 3, the member of the board of commissioners from commissioner district 3 shall make the appointment.
(4)
Post 4, the member of the board of commissioners from commissioner district 4 shall make the appointment.
(5)
Post 5, the member of the board of commissioners from commissioner district 5 shall make the appointment.
(6)
Post 6, one (1) of the at-large members of the board of commissioners shall make the appointment.
(7)
Post 7, the other at-large member shall make the appointment.
(8)
Post 8, the chief executive officer shall make the appointment.
(9)
Post 9, the board of commissioners shall make the appointment by majority vote with the concurrence of the chief executive officer.
(c)
Each member of the advisory board shall serve for a term of office concurrent with the term of office of the person who appointed the member except that the member appointed to Post 9 shall serve a four-year term and except any such member shall hold over until a successor is appointed.
(d)
The initial appointments to membership on the advisory board shall be made within thirty (30) days after the effective date of the ordinance from which this article is derived. Thereafter, the chief executive officer and each member of the board of commissioners shall make their respective appointments to membership on the advisory board within fifteen (15) days after taking the oath of office for a full term of office as chief executive officer or a member of the board of commissioners. The appointment of the member for Post 9 shall be made within fifteen (15) days after the chief executive officer takes the oath of office for a full term of office.
(e)
The members shall receive no compensation but shall be reimbursed for reasonable and necessary expenses incurred in pursuing the business of the advisory board, pursuant to rules and regulations established by the chief executive officer for reimbursement of county officers, agents and employees in the performance of official business.
(f)
Should a vacancy occur in the membership of the advisory board either by resignation, death, change of residence, removal or for any other reason, the entity entitled to make the original appointment shall, within not more than thirty (30) days after the date of the vacancy, appoint a person to serve as a member of the advisory board for the unexpired term of the member whose post is vacant. Until a vacancy is filled, the total number of members of the advisory board, for the purposes of determining a quorum, shall not include the vacant post.
(g)
Any member may be removed from office for good cause affecting the ability to perform duties as a member, for misfeasance, malfeasance or nonfeasance in office, or for violating the conflict of interest provisions of this section, by majority vote of the board of commissioners upon the motion of the person by whom the member was appointed or, in the case of the member holding Post 9, upon motion of any member of the board of commissioners, but only after a public hearing at which such member is given the right to present evidence in the member's own behalf and only upon a finding by two-thirds of the other members that good cause for removal affecting the member's ability to perform duties as a member exists, or that the member was guilty of misfeasance, malfeasance, or nonfeasance in office, or that the member violated the provisions of subsection (h) of this section.
(h)
Chapter 2, article II, division 2 shall apply to the members of the advisory board and they and each of them shall be deemed to be an "appointed official" with respect to their duties as members of the advisory board. Any violation of such division by a member of the advisory board shall be grounds for removal.
(Code 1976, §§ 6-4003, 6-4004, 6-4006—6-4009)
Sec. 6-19. - Officers and meetings.
After the initial appointment of all members, the full membership of the airport advisory board shall meet as soon as practicable and shall elect one (1) of its members as chair and one (1) as vice-chair, each of whom shall continue as voting members in such positions for the succeeding year and until their successors are elected. Thereafter a chair and a vice-chair shall be elected in the same manner each year to serve for the succeeding year and until their successors are elected. The chair shall preside at meetings of the advisory board and the vice-chair shall preside in the chair's absence, and they shall have such other powers, duties and responsibilities as may be set out elsewhere in this article. The advisory board shall also designate a secretary to keep the minutes and records of the advisory board. A majority of the members of the advisory board shall constitute a quorum. A majority of the quorum may exercise any and all powers of the advisory board. The advisory board shall, as soon as practicable, adopt rules of procedure and rules of conduct of its business. The advisory board shall meet at least once a month and at such other times as it may deem necessary.
(Code 1976, § 6-4205)
Sec. 6-20. - Duties.
The airport advisory board shall act only in an advisory capacity and shall have no power of authority to bind the county or any officer, agent or employee thereof. However, the advisory board shall specifically have the duty to consider, evaluate and initiate recommendations to the governing authority:
(1)
To acquire by purchase, lease, gift or otherwise, and to hold, lease, sell, use and dispose of real and personal property of every kind and character or any interest therein.
(2)
To exercise the power of eminent domain to acquire any private real property or any rights or interests therein, including any easements, as necessary or convenient for the accomplishments of the purposes of this article, including the elimination of airport hazards, in accordance with the provisions of any and all existing laws applicable to the exercise of such power.
(3)
To plan, acquire, establish, develop, construct, enlarge, improve, maintain, equip, and lease all airport facilities owned and operated by the governing authority which it may acquire or plan to acquire.
(4)
To regulate, protect and police such airports and all related activities and facilities.
(5)
To enter into any contracts, leases or other agreements, promulgate any orders, set any tolls, fees or other charges for the use of airport facilities, property or services.
(6)
To adopt and enforce reasonable rules and regulations for the orderly, safe, efficient and sanitary operation of airports and related facilities owned and operated by the county.
(7)
To make application to any federal, state, county or municipal government or agency or to any other source, public or private, for loans, grants, guarantees or other financial assistance in aid of airports owned and operated by the county.
(Code 1976, § 6-4210)
Secs. 6-21—6-35. - Reserved.
