ARTICLE XI. - EMPLOYEE ORGANIZATIONS

Sec. 20-205. - Statement of policy.
It shall be the policy of DeKalb County to communicate with employee organizations in an orderly and professional manner, listening to input from such organizations where appropriate. This policy in no way obligates DeKalb County to bargain or contract with employee organizations. Further, this policy does not authorize employee organizations or any county employees to engage in strikes, slowdowns, or other organized absences from work or their assigned work stations.
( Ord. No. 13-15 , Pt. I, 10-8-13)
Sec. 20-206. - Definitions.
For the purposes of this article, certain terms and words are hereby defined. Where words are not defined herein, but are defined in section 1-2, those words shall have the meaning as defined therein. The following words, terms, and phrases, when used in this article, shall have the meanings given to them in this section, except where the context clearly indicates a different meaning:
An eligible employee is a DeKalb County merit-status employee who is not:
(1)
A department head or other employee with actual authority to hire, fire, or discipline; or
(2)
A confidential employee who works directly with and reports directly to an elected official, department head, or department director.
Employee organization means any lawful organization that eligible employees have joined for the purpose of discussing issues of common interest regarding terms and conditions of employment with DeKalb County.
( Ord. No. 13-15 , Pt. I, 10-8-13)
Sec. 20-207. - Applicability of article.
This article shall apply to employee organizations of which eligible employees are members.
( Ord. No. 13-15 , Pt. I, 10-8-13)
Sec. 20-208. - Prohibited discrimination and retaliation.
(a)
There shall be no discrimination or retaliation against any eligible employee because of the fact that such employee is a member of an employee organization or has authorized a representative of an employee organization to communicate on his/her behalf in an appropriate manner regarding terms and conditions of DeKalb County employment. However, this section does not eliminate or limit the right to discipline employees for activities made unlawful by Georgia law or other applicable law (including, but not limited to, strikes or work slowdowns), or for conduct that violates DeKalb County policy.
(b)
No employee shall be required, as a condition of employment with DeKalb County, to become a member of any employee organization. There shall be no discrimination or retaliation against an eligible employee because of the fact that the employee chooses not to be a member of an employee organization or otherwise chooses not to become involved in employee organization activities.
( Ord. No. 13-15 , Pt. I, 10-8-13)
Sec. 20-209. - Representative of the county.
The executive assistant shall designate a person in the human resources and merit system department to serve as the county's designated representative to meet with employee organizations when appropriate.
( Ord. No. 13-15 , Pt. I, 10-8-13)
Sec. 20-210. - Meet and confer.
When an employee organization requests a meeting with the county, the designated county representative will meet with a representative or representatives of that organization upon reasonable terms for the purpose of listening to input from the organization regarding employment terms and conditions of eligible employees the organization represents (but not for the purpose of collective bargaining or negotiating a contract). The designated county representative shall not be required to meet with a particular employee organization more often than once per month.
( Ord. No. 13-15 , Pt. I, 10-8-13)
Sec. 20-211. - Representation of eligible employees in merit system hearings.
Subject to the terms and conditions of the merit system and personnel administration department's written administrative procedures governing the conduct of merit system hearings, a representative of an employee organization shall be permitted to represent and assist an eligible employee who is an appellant in a merit system hearing under sections 20-193, 20-194, or 20-195 of this chapter: (1) if that representative is an attorney, or (2) if those written administrative procedures expressly authorize an appellant to designate a non-attorney to represent him/her in a merit system hearing and specify the procedure for an appellant to designate a non-attorney representative for such a hearing.
( Ord. No. 13-15 , Pt. I, 10-8-13)
Sec. 20-212. - Employee organization activities during scheduled work hours.
No eligible employee may spend scheduled working time (excluding approved break time) away from his/her work assignment and/or work station to participate in employee organization activities, unless the employee obtains his/her supervisor's advance permission to spend that time away from his/her work assignment and/or work station. An eligible employee may spend up to one (1) hour per calendar month of paid scheduled working time in employee organization meetings or in meetings between employee organization representatives and the designated county representative or county elected officials, if the eligible employee has advance permission from his/her supervisor to spend that time away from his/her work assignment and/or work station. With the exception of that one (1) hour per calendar month, normal county and department rules regarding requests to take time off from work (using accrued paid leave or unpaid leave) apply to eligible employees' requests to take time away from their normal work assignments and/or work stations to participate in employee organization activities. The one-hour per calendar month of paid scheduled working time that an eligible employee may spend on certain employee organization activities as described above shall not accumulate if unused during a calendar month, and no payment shall be made for any such time that is not used.
( Ord. No. 13-15 , Pt. I, 10-8-13)
Secs. 20-213—20-220. - Reserved.
