27-3.1 DIVISION 1. - OVERLAY DISTRICTS

Sec. 3.1.1. - Overlay districts generally.
Overlay districts are supplemental to the zoning district classifications established in article 2 of this chapter. This section shall supersede the applicability statements in each overlay district, and are applicable as follows:
A.
All development and building permits for lots located, in whole or in part, within any overlay district shall meet all of the regulations of the underlying zoning district in which they are located as well as all of the regulations of the applicable overlay district.
B.
For new development after the effective date of this chapter, when no complete application for a land disturbance or building permit has been filed with respect to a property located within an overlay district and the property has conditions of zoning that were approved prior to, and in conflict with the overlay district regulations contained in this article, the overlay district regulations shall prevail. If a condition of zoning does not conflict with the overlay district regulations, the condition of zoning shall remain applicable to the property.
C.
For existing development, if overlay district regulations conflict with the conditions of zoning applicable to property within in an overlay district, the existing zoning conditions remain applicable to the property.
D.
If a use is permitted in the overlay district, but the underlying zoning requires a special land use permit for the same use, the overlay shall govern, and no special land use permit is required.
E.
If overlay district regulations conflict with other regulations contained in this chapter, the overlay district regulations shall prevail.
F.
The use of property may be permitted without rezoning if listed as allowed by the overlay. Uses allowed by the underlying zoning in article 4, may also be permitted in the overlay district, unless it is listed as prohibited or if the zoning district is not applicable in the overlay.
G.
Each application for a business license, land disturbance permit, building permit or sign permit, which involves the development, use, exterior alteration, exterior modification or addition of any structure, must demonstrate compliance with all overlay district regulations, subject to article 8, nonconforming uses, structures and buildings.
H.
The zoning district designations contained in article 3, titled Overlay District Regulations, were not revised to reflect the new zoning district designations utilized in the updated zoning ordinance effective June 1, 2015. The discontinued zoning district references contained in this article 3 shall therefore be construed using the conversion chart contained in Table 1.1 of article 1 of the zoning ordinance effective June 1, 2015, and applied as appropriate to the updated provision of the zoning ordinance.
( Ord. No. 15-06 , 8-25-2015)
Sec. 3.1.2. - Purpose and intent.
Each Subarea Overlay has its own purpose and intent based on original overlay requirements.
( Ord. No. 15-06 , 8-25-2015)
Sec. 3.1.3. - Plan submittal, review and approval (certificate of compliance—See Emory Village for additional requirements associated with historic preservation).
A.
Pre-submittal conference. Prior to the submittal for review of a land disturbance or building permit application for property located within an overlay district, the applicant and the staff shall have a preliminary meeting to discuss the submittal requirements.
B.
Conceptual plan submittal requirements. As part of any land-disturbance permit, building permit, or sign permit application, the applicant shall submit to the director of planning a conceptual plan package and a final design package. Each package must include full architectural and landscape plans and specifications. The submitted plans must include a site plan, architectural elevations and sections; renderings depicting the building design including elevations and architectural details of proposed buildings, exterior materials and colors, and plans and elevations of all hardscape, landscape and signs, all of which shall demonstrate that the proposed design is in compliance with all the requirements of the applicable overlay district and the underlying zoning classification. The director of planning shall provide a copy of the submittals to the district commissioners, at-large commissioners and the citizen stakeholder in whose district or area the property is located for review and comments. If the proposed development is also located in an historic district as designated in the Code, the development shall also comply with the regulations established for the historic district in chapter 13.5 of the Code.
C.
Review by staff. Staff will review the conceptual plans for compliance with specifications and design guidelines contained in this zoning ordinance. If the application fails to comply with any section in this zoning ordinance, the application shall be marked "failed compliance," shall be returned to the applicant with any comments and/or redlines for revisions, and may be re-submitted with corrections addressing the staff's comments and/or redlines for further consideration. Once the application is found to be in compliance, the final design shall be forwarded to the director of planning for approval.
1.
Where the director of planning determines that said plans comply with the requirements of the overlay district, the director of planning shall approve the plans for compliance as part of the application for land disturbance, building or signs permits.
2.
Where the director of planning determines that submitted conceptual plans do not comply with the requirements of this chapter, then the director of planning shall notify the applicant in writing of the manner in which the conceptual plans fail to comply with such requirements. All applications shall be considered and decided by the director of planning within thirty (30) days of receipt of a complete application.
3.
Any appeal to vary overlay district development standards shall be to the zoning board of appeals pursuant to article 7.
D.
Fees. Plans shall be accompanied by an application and payment of a fee in an amount determined by the board of commissioners.
( Ord. No. 15-06 , 8-25-2015)
Sec. 3.1.4. - Conceptual plan package review.
A.
The conceptual plan package shall include the following:
1.
A narrative addressing the proposed development explaining how it meets the purpose, intent, and standards of this article. The narrative shall include a tabulation of the approximate number of acres for each different land use type within the project, the approximate number of dwelling units by type, the approximate gross residential density, the approximate commercial density as well as square feet, the common open space acreage, the approximate open space acreage, the anticipated number, type and size of recreational facilities and other public amenities, and the legal mechanism for protecting and maintaining common/public open, as required in article 5;
2.
A site location map showing the proposed development, abutting properties, the access connections of the proposed development to surrounding and existing development, and transitional buffer zones, if required;
3.
A multimodal access plan, prepared at a scale not greater than one inch equals one hundred feet (1"=100'), to demonstrate a unified plan of continuous access to and between all structures in the proposed development and adjacent properties where connections are appropriate. The multimodal access plan shall cover the entire proposed development along with public right-of-way of adjoining streets and any other property lying between the subject property and any primary or secondary streets. Safe and convenient pathways shall be provided from sidewalks along streets to each structure entrance, including pedestrian access routes across parking lots and between adjacent buildings within the same development. Connections to available transportation nodes, such as driveways, sidewalks, and bike paths shall be shown along adjacent streets and those entering adjoining properties. Where an existing or planned public transportation station or stop is within one thousand two hundred fifty (1,250) feet from the nearest boundary of the subject property, the access plan shall show how pedestrians may safely travel from such station or stop to the subject property. Where an existing or planned bike path is located within one thousand five hundred feet (1,500) feet from the nearest boundary of the subject property, the access plan shall show how safe, continuous and convenient bicycle access shall be provided to the subject property.
4.
Two (2) copies of a plan drawn to a designated scale of not less than one inch equals one hundred feet (1"=100'), certified by a professional engineer or land surveyor licensed by the state, presented on a sheet having a maximum size of twenty-four (24) inches by thirty-six (36) inches, and one (1) eight and-one-half (8.5) inches by eleven (11) inches reduction of the plan. A ".pdf" copy of the plan shall be e-mailed to the director of planning for distribution to the district commissioners, at-large commissioners, and citizen stakeholder in whose district or area the property is located for review and comments. If presented on more than one (1) sheet, match lines shall clearly indicate where the several sheets join. Such plan shall contain the following information:
a.
Boundaries of the entire property proposed to be included in the development, with bearings and distances of the perimeter property lines;
b.
Scale and north arrow, with north, to the extent feasible, oriented to the top of the plat and on all supporting graphics;
c.
Location and approximate dimensions in length and width, for landscape strips and required transitional buffers, if any;
d.
Existing topography with a maximum contour interval of five (5) feet and a statement indicating whether it is an air survey or field run;
e.
Delineation of any floodplain designated by the Federal Emergency Management Agency, United States Geological Survey, or DeKalb County;
f.
Delineation of any jurisdictional wetlands as defined by Section 404 of the Federal Clean Water Act;
g.
Approximate delineation of any significant historic or archaeological feature, grave, object or structure marking a place of burial if known, and a statement indicating how the proposed development will impact it;
h.
Delineation of all existing structures and whether they will be retained or demolished;
i.
General location, in conceptual form, of proposed uses, lots, buildings, building types and building entrances;
j.
Height and setback of all existing and proposed buildings and structures;
k.
Location, size and number of all on-street and off-street parking spaces, including a shared parking analysis, if shared parking is proposed;
l.
Identification of site access points and layout, width of right-of-way and paved sections of all internal streets;
m.
Conceptual plans for drainage with approximate location and estimated size of all proposed stormwater management facilities and a statement as to the type of facility proposed;
n.
Development density and lot sizes for each type of use;
o.
Areas to be held in joint ownership, common ownership or control;
p.
Identification of site access points and layout, width of right-of-way and paved sections of all internal streets;
q.
Location of proposed sidewalks and bicycle facilities, trails, recreation areas, parks, and other public or community uses, facilities, or structures on the site;
r.
Conceptual layout of utilities and location of all existing and proposed utility easements having a width of ten (10) feet or more;
s.
Standard details of signs, sidewalks, streetlights, driveways, medians, curbs and gutters, landscaped areas, fencing, street furniture, bicycle lanes, streets, alleys, and other public improvements demonstrating compliance with the design guidelines for the overlay district; and
t.
Seal and signature of the professional preparing the plan.
5.
Two (2) copies of the conceptual building designs including elevation drawings drawn to a scale of not less than one-sixteenth-inch equals one (1) foot showing architectural details of proposed building, exterior materials, all of which demonstrate that the proposed design is in compliance with the Subarea Overlay District in which it is located. Drawings shall be presented on a sheet having a maximum size of twenty-four (24) inches by thirty-six (36) inches, along with one (1) eight and-one-half (8½) inches by eleven (11) inches reduction of each sheet. A ".pdf" copy of the drawings shall be e-mailed to the director of planning or designee for distribution to the district commissioners, at-large commissioners, and the citizen stakeholder in whose district or area the property is located for review and comments. If the drawings are presented on more than one (1) sheet, match lines shall clearly indicate where the several sheets join.
6.
Lighting plan. See article 5.
7.
Traffic study. See article 5.
( Ord. No. 15-06 , 8-25-2015)
Sec. 3.1.5. - Final design package.
Upon receiving and addressing the county's comments with respect to the conceptual design package, the applicant must submit the final design package, including color ".pdf" copies, for review and approval. The final design package must contain full architectural and landscape plans, site plan, elevations, section renderings depicting the building design containing elevations and architectural detailing of proposed buildings, exterior materials and color, and plans and elevations of hardscape landscape and signs all of which must demonstrate compliance with overlay district regulations. All items and specifications necessary for obtaining land disturbance and building permits must be submitted with the final design package. The applicant may submit the final design package simultaneously with the land disturbance or building permit application, as applicable.
( Ord. No. 15-06 , 8-25-2015)
