ARTICLE V. - REFUSE[4]

Footnotes:
--- (4) ---
Cross reference— Solid waste, Ch. 22.

Sec. 13-96. - Definitions.
The following words, terms and phrases, when used in this article, shall have the meanings ascribed to them in this section, except where the context clearly indicates a different meaning:
Commercial refuse means waste material from industrial processes, manufacturing canneries, slaughterhouses, packing plants, poultry processing plants or similar industries, and large quantities of condemned foods. "Commercial refuse" includes waste material from the construction, remodeling and repair operations on houses, commercial buildings, multiple dwellings and other structures, such as concrete, bricks, plaster, stone, earth, lumber, roofing materials, shavings and sawdust.
Garbage means food waste, including waste accumulation of animal or vegetable matter used or intended for use as food, or that attends the preparation, use, cooking, dealing in or storing of meat, fish, fowl, fruit or vegetables.
Incinerator means all devices intended or used for the reduction or destruction of solid waste by burning.
Landfill means a method of disposing of solid wastes, other than putrescible wastes or hazardous wastes, on land by placing an earth cover thereon.
Private contractor means any person, other than a municipality, who collects, removes, salvages or disposes of refuse from one (1) or more public or private premises, other than the person's own, whether or not under written contract, and whether or not for compensation.
Putrescible waste means wastes that are capable of being decomposed by microorganisms. Examples of putrescible waste include, but are not limited to, kitchen waste, animal manure, offal, hatchery and poultry processing waste and garbage.
Refuse means garbage, rubbish or commercial refuse.
Refuse receptacles means can, compartment, bin or other container used to keep, collect or store refuse pending its removal for disposal.
Rubbish means wastepaper, cartons, boxes, wood, tree branches, yard trimmings, furniture, appliances, metals, cans, glass, crockery, dunnage and/or similar materials.
Sanitary landfill means a method of disposing of putrescible waste and/or hazardous waste on land by placing an earth cover thereon.
(Code 1976, § 12-8001)
Cross reference— Definitions and rules of construction generally, § 1-2.
Sec. 13-97. - Storage.
It shall be the duty of the occupant or owner of any premises to keep all refuse, pending collection and disposal, as follows:
(1)
Garbage shall be placed in watertight paper or plastic bags and the tops secured and placed in a refuse receptacle. The receptacles will be watertight, rust-resistant, rodentproof containers with close-fitting tops; provided, that other types of receptacles approved by the director may be used in special circumstances.
(2)
Large amounts of rubbish must be stored separately in refuse receptacles, plastic bags or commercial containers, except that tree branches and heavy brush which will not fit in cans or containers shall be cut in lengths not exceeding four (4) feet and stacked in a compact pile on the parkway in front of the residence adjoining the curb, but these piles shall not extend into the street. Logs, limbs and branches over four (4) inches in diameter or over four (4) feet long will not be collected at any time.
(3)
All refuse receptacles, except single-use paper or plastic bags, single-use paper or cardboard boxes, shall be kept clean and free of accumulated waste and shall be treated with an effective insecticide if necessary to prevent nuisance. The capacity of the individual refuse receptacle shall not be less than twenty (20) gallons nor more than thirty-two (32) gallons; provided, that special receptacles of other capacities may be used with the written permission of the director. Receptacles adequate to hold the refuse normally accumulating between scheduled removals shall be provided on each premises. Oil or grease drums, paint cans and similar salvaged containers shall not be acceptable. Bulk containers and compactors may be used where applicable. They shall be marked to identify the owner and shall adhere to all requirements of this article. Scavenging from any refuse container is prohibited.
(Code 1976, § 12-8002)
Sec. 13-98. - Collection.
(a)
Proper collection and disposal of accumulated refuse is required.
(b)
All equipment used for the collection and transportation of refuse shall be so designed as to prevent the escape of any refuse therefrom. This equipment shall be provided with a watertight body designed so as to prevent the escape of any liquid. All surfaces of collection and transportation equipment coming in contact with garbage or organic commercial waste shall be smooth, nonabsorbent and in good repair. Only equipment approved by the director may be used in the collection and transportation of refuse.
(c)
All equipment used in the collection and transportation of refuse shall be thoroughly washed and treated with an approved insecticide as often as the director shall deem necessary to prevent fly breeding and/or nuisances.
(d)
All refuse spilled during collection or transportation shall be promptly removed by the refuse collector.
(e)
At each collection, all refuse in the refuse receptacle shall be removed and the receptacle left covered.
(f)
Hazardous waste and dead animals shall be handled in a manner approved by the director.
(Code 1976, § 12-8003)
Sec. 13-99. - Disposal.
(a)
No person shall hereafter deposit or cause to be deposited any refuse except in a proper receptacle or at an approved disposal site.
(b)
All putrescible waste within the county shall be disposed of either by incineration or sanitary landfill. Refuse may be disposed of in landfills approved by the county. Dead animals other than dogs and house pets will not be collected, and dead dogs and house pets shall be collected only from animal hospitals, curbside and public rights-of-way. Large dead animals shall be disposed of by burying on the individual's property to whom the animal belongs.
(c)
No person shall hereafter establish or operate any refuse disposal facility unless it is approved by DeKalb County and is in accordance with the rules and regulations of the Georgia Department of Natural Resources, environmental protection division, solid waste management section and air quality control section, and in such a manner as the director shall deem necessary to prevent nuisance to the public health.
(Code 1976, § 12-8004)
Sec. 13-100. - Inspections and enforcement.
It shall be the duty of the director to inspect or cause to be inspected all storage, collection and disposal facilities to determine that this article is being complied with. The director shall have the authority to close or cause to be closed, abandon, improve, repair or revise any disposal facility or collection equipment which does not comply with this article.
(Code 1976, § 12-8005)
Secs. 13-101—13-125. - Reserved.
