ARTICLE X. - PURCHASE OF MATERIALS AND SERVICES

Sec. 2-247. - Intent.
It is the intent of the governing authority of the county to establish regulations and procedures to provide for an efficient and fiscally responsible system for the purchase of materials and services necessary for the effective operations of the county government and to ensure the administration of such system is in accordance with the highest ethical and fiscal standards and applicable laws.
(Code 2002, § 1-2-1)
Sec. 2-248. - Applicability.
The provisions of this article shall apply to all departments, divisions or other units of the county government receiving appropriations from the board of county commissioners and to other agencies, as the board may deem appropriate.
(Code 2002, § 1-2-2)
Sec. 2-249. - Purchasing agent—Designation.
The county administrator or his designee shall serve as the purchasing agent of the county.
(Code 2002, § 1-2-3)
Sec. 2-250. - Same—Powers and duties.
The purchasing agent shall have the following authority, responsibility, and duties:
(1)
To ensure the administration of the purchasing system is in accordance with the highest ethical and fiscal standards and applicable laws. To ensure that all due diligence is applied to the purchasing process.
(2)
To purchase or contract for all materials, supplies and services required by the using departments and divisions of the county government pursuant to the provisions of this article.
(3)
To purchase or procure for the county materials, supplies, equipment and contractual services from the "lowest and best bid" by a responsive and responsible bidder meeting specifications.
(4)
To maintain up-to-date files of all vendors known to the county who are reputable and responsible vendors of materials, supplies, and services regularly used by the county, including descriptions of their goods or services, prices, and discounts as may be available
(5)
To sell or dispose of all obsolete or unusable personal property in accordance with the ordinance rules, regulations, or resolutions which may be adopted by the county
(6)
To coordinate cooperative purchasing practices with other governmental entities.
(7)
To establish, and amend when necessary, as authorized, all rules and regulations as may be necessary for the implementation of this article.
(Code 2002, § 1-2-4)
Sec. 2-251. - Purchase orders.
Except as otherwise provided herein, all purchases for materials, supplies, and services for the county shall be on an official county purchase order as prescribed by the county administrator. The administrator has the authority not to honor purchases made outside these procedures. The individual responsible for the purchase may incur these obligations instead. Purchase orders are specific as to vendor and cannot be reassigned.
(Code 2002, § 1-2-5)
Sec. 2-252. - Source selection.
(a)
All purchases for materials, supplies, equipment or services estimated to cost over $25,000.00 shall be based on competitive bidding or proposal procedures. These procedures include formal advertising, contracts, specifications, sealed bids, public opening, bid deposits and performance bonds. Equipment purchases from the state department of administrative services surplus or from state contracts are exempt from this provision. The county reserves the right to reject bids, waive technicalities and make awards in the best interest of the county and in compliance with state law.
(b)
Any purchases for materials, supplies, equipment or services with an estimated cost between $5,000.01 and $24,999.99 shall be based upon written competitive quotations from at least three reputable vendors if available, without regard for formal advertising. Equipment purchases from the state department of administrative services surplus or from state contacts are exempt from this provision.
(c)
Any purchases for materials, supplies, equipment or services estimated to cost between $1,000.00 and $5,000.00 shall be based upon verbal quotations from at least three reputable vendors if available. Equipment purchases from the state department of administrative services surplus or from state contracts are exempt from this provision. All purchases for materials, supplies, equipment or services in excess of $1,000.00 must have a purchase requisition approved by the county administrator or county commissioner in writing.
(d)
Any purchase for materials, supplies, equipment or services between $250.01 and $1,000.00 must have the approval of the county administrator or a county commissioner. Any item, materials or service that has a value of $250.00 or less may be purchased from any approved vendor recommended by the using agency or in the absence of such recommendation, from any approved vendor selected by the purchasing agent.
(e)
Sole source purchases shall be allowed when only one source is able to fill the requirements for the intended use. Sole source may be used for compatibility with equipment for repair purposes or to continue standardization. The county administrator, commission chairman or vice-chair shall approve all initial sole source purchases.
(f)
Emergency purchases shall be allowed when there is a threat to the health, safety or welfare of people or property or when faced with the loss of an essential governmental service. Competitive purchasing shall be resumed as soon as practical. The county administrator or a county commissioner must authorize the initiation of this procedure.
(g)
Professional services refer to such services as legal, medical, engineering, surveying, architectural and others whose professions are licensed by the state. It is the policy of the county to award contracts for professional services on the basis of demonstrated competence and qualifications at a fair and reasonable price with the selection based on the best interest of the county. The county administrator shall issue a request for qualifications from a minimum of three candidates if available
(h)
Local preference. Bids awarded to local vendors contribute to the local tax base and will, therefore, be given special consideration when bidding against outside vendors. The county administrator is given the authority to give vendors from within the confines of the county, whose initial bid is within three percent of the low bid submitted by an out-of-county bidder, an opportunity to meet the lower bid price. The local bidder must agree in writing within 48 hours to meet the lowest price. This policy does not apply to any purchases of materials, equipment or services in excess of $20,000.00. On those cases, the board of commissioners will make their decision based on the lowest and best bid by a responsive and responsible bidder submitted.
(i)
The purchasing agent should use state DOAS contracts where feasible and if in the best interest of the county. The purchasing agent is also allowed to use the Georgia Correctional Industries Administration as a vendor.
(Code 2002, § 1-2-6)
Sec. 2-253. - Multiyear contracts.
The county may enter into a multiyear contract or purchase agreement to lease, purchase or lease-purchase any goods, materials, real property, personal property, services, or supplies conditional on the following requirements:
(1)
The contract must terminate and renew at the end of the calendar year.
(2)
The contract must specify the total obligation of the county.
(3)
The title of any supplies, material, equipment or other personal property must remain with the vendor until the obligation is liquidated or it must be specified in the contract that the title reverts back to the provider upon termination of the agreement or contract.
(4)
The contract or agreement must specify that the county can terminate the contract if funds are not appropriated.
(Code 2002, § 1-2-7)
Secs. 2-254—2-284. - Reserved.
