ARTICLE XV. - DEBT MANAGEMENT

Sec. 2-398. - Purpose of debt issuance.
The county will utilize longterm debt only for capital improvement projects that are too extensive to be financed from current revenue sources. The county will not use longterm debt to finance current or ongoing operations of the county.
(Code 2002, § 1-5-1)
Sec. 2-399. - Debt limitations.
(a)
The county is authorized by law to issue general obligation bonds not in excess of 10 percent of the assessed values of all taxable property within the county and for a period of time not to exceed 30 years. However, the county will remain cognizant of the millage assessed for repayment of general government debt and will strive to maintain a stable millage in the debt service area for the benefit of its taxpayers. Where feasible, special assessment, revenue and other self-supporting bonds will be utilized instead of general obligation bonds.
(b)
When issuing general obligation bonds the county must assess and collect annual taxes sufficient to pay the principle and interest of the debt within 30 years.
(Code 2002, § 1-5-2)
Sec. 2-400. - Types of debt.
(a)
The county is permitted to issue any form of debt that does not contradict the existing constitution and laws of the state. These include, but are not limited to:
(1)
General obligation bonds;
(2)
Revenue bonds for the county proprietary funds;
(3)
Intergovernmental contracts;
(4)
Lease purchases;
(5)
Certificates of participation; and
(6)
Temporary loans.
(b)
Tax anticipation notes or any other revenue anticipation borrowing will be avoided if possible. In the event such borrowing occurs on an emergency basis, the debt will be retired in full by the end of the calendar year in which it is incurred.
(Code 2002, § 1-5-3)
Sec. 2-401. - Debt features.
(a)
Maturity of debt. When the county utilizes long-term financing, the county shall pay back the debt within a period of time that does not exceed the life of the project financed. The county will seek level or declining debt repayment schedules and will avoid the use of balloon principal payments at the end of the term of the borrowing.
(b)
Redemption provisions. Where cost effective, the county will incorporate early call or prepayment features into the structured debt.
(c)
Rates. Due to the higher volatility of variable rate debt, the county will examine each variable rate borrowing closely on a case-by-case basis before issuance.
(Code 2002, § 1-5-4)
Sec. 2-402. - Interfund loans.
Where cost effective, the county may choose to issue loans between funds within its reporting entity. The interest rate applied to such loans will be at the lowest available rate the county could obtain on the market or from governmental pooled resources. The county budget officer will complete a document outlining the amount, rate, repayment terms, and other such pertinent items after direction is issued by the county commission to complete the interfund loan transaction. Careful analysis will be performed on the lending fund's working capital to ensure adequate cash flows will remain after the money is transferred to the borrowing fund. The lending fund will not incur financial hardship or an increase in rate structure as a result of the transaction. If the loan is considered noncurrent, the loan transaction should be listed as an advance and a reserve to fund balance created.
(Code 2002, § 1-5-5)
Secs. 2-403—2-432. - Reserved.
