ARTICLE IX. - BUDGETING

Sec. 2-214. - Fiscal year.
The fiscal year for the county shall begin on January 1 and end on December 31.
(Code 2002, § 1-1-1)
State Law reference— Duty to establish fiscal year, O.C.G.A. § 36-81-3.
Sec. 2-215. - General policies.
(a)
The county will finance all current expenditures with current revenues. The county shall endeavor to not use shortterm borrowing to finance current operational requirements but is not prohibited by this policy from using shortterm borrowing to meet operating budget requirements.
(b)
All governmental funds, except capital project funds, are subject to the annual budget process. Capital projects will be subject to project length budgets.
(c)
All budgets will be adopted on a basis of accounting consistent with Generally Accepted Accounting Principles (GAAP). Revenues will be recognized when they become measurable and available and expenditures are charged against the budget when they become measurable, a liability has been incurred, and the liability will be liquidated with current resources. Revenues will be recognized as available at the end of the year using the 60-day rule. Expenditures will be recognized at the end of the fiscal year if incurred during the fiscal year and paid with current resources. All expenditures for the purchase of inventory will be recognized using the purchase method. If the county establishes a proprietary fund, that fund shall use the consumption and FIFO method of expenditure recognition for inventories.
(d)
The budget must be balanced for all budgeted funds. Total anticipated revenues and other resources available including unreserved fund balance must equal total estimated expenditures for each fund.
(e)
The county will strive to integrate performance measurement and objectives and productivity indicators within the budget.
(f)
The county will maintain a budgetary control system to ensure adherence to the budget and will prepare timely financial reports comparing actual revenues expenditures and encumbrances with budgeted amounts.
(g)
All operating budget appropriations will lapse at year end. Encumbrances can be reappropriated in the next fiscal year by a budget amendment. Capital budget appropriations under the capital improvement program shall be appropriated with project-length balanced budget for major projects.
(h)
The operating budget will provide for adequate maintenance and operation of capital equipment and facilities and allocate funds to the capital budget for their orderly replacement.
(i)
The county will pay bills on the second Monday of each month. Department heads and elected officials are directed to submit payment requests within these timeframes. The county administrator shall, however, have the authority to issue special checks up to a maximum of $2,500.00.
(Code 2002, § 1-1-2)
State Law reference— Duty to adopt and to operate under annual balance budget, O.C.G.A. § 36-81-3.
Sec. 2-216. - Adoption and approval.
The budget shall be adopted by the approval of a budget resolution that specifies the anticipated revenues by appropriate categories, the proposed expenditure totals for each department, each nondepartmental expense, and for each fund covered by the budget. Amendments to the budget must be approved by resolution. The budget shall be adopted at the fund/department level, which is the legal level of budgetary control. The current year's budget may be adjusted to reflect changes in local economy, changes in priorities or services needs, receipt of unbudgeted revenues and for unanticipated expenditures.
(Code 2002, § 1-1-2)
State Law reference— Procedure for adoption of budget, O.C.G.A. § 36-81-5.
Sec. 2-217. - Reserves and contingencies.
(a)
The county will strive to include a contingency amount in the general fund budget for unforeseen or emergency operating expenditures. The amount of the contingency will be no more than three percent of the operating budget. The county will endeavor to fund contingencies from the unreserved fund balance but may use general fund appropriations until sufficient fund balance has been accrued.
(b)
The county will strive to establish a fund balance reserve for the general fund to pay expenditures caused by unforeseen emergencies, for revenue shortfalls and to eliminate short-term borrowing for cash flow purposes or because of the schedule of tax collections. The reserve will be maintained at an amount that represents no more than $750,000.00 or three months of operating expenditures whichever is greater.
(c)
The budget shall be adopted at the legal level of budgetary control that is the fund/department level. Transfers of nonpersonal appropriations within a department shall require only the approval of the county administrator. Transfers between departments or funds, an increase of a personal services appropriation, or an increase in the level of authorized positions shall require the approval of the board of commissioners. Department heads and elected officials are directed to operate within budget limitations to prevent emergency situations.
(Code 2002, § 1-1-2)
Sec. 2-218. - Amendments.
County commissioners may authorize new projects or expenditures during the budget year by adopting a budget resolution that includes the project cost and revenue source. Each budget resolution must be balanced. The county commissioners shall adopt on a quarterly basis a budget amendment that incorporates all of the budget resolutions for the previous quarter.
(Code 2002, § 1-1-2)
Sec. 2-219. - Budget officer; designation and duties.
(a)
The county administrator is designated as the budget officer for the county. He shall prepare a budget calendar, a balanced budget proposal and a budget resolution to be presented to the county commission. He shall prepare a revenue plan itemizing all anticipated county revenues. The county administrator shall be responsible for the preparation, administration and fiscal control of the budget.
(b)
The county administrator shall utilize a decentralized budget process that gives department heads and constitutional officers the opportunity to provide input into the budget process. The department heads and constitutional officers must provide a current service level budget with a letter recommending any expanded service levels or additional personnel.
(c)
The county administrator is charged with ensuring that the county shall comply with all state laws applicable to budget hearings, public notices, public inspection, and budget adoption.
(Code 2002, § 1-1-2)
State Law reference— Authorization for appointment of budget officer, O.C.G.A. § 36-81-4; duties of budget officer, O.C.G.A. § 36-81-5.
Sec. 2-220. - [Requests for expenditures.]
The board of commissioners does hereby establish a policy that all request for assistance that will have a financial impact must be submitted in writing to the county administrator ten days before the commissioners' meeting in order to receive a budget impact statement and to allow the commissioners adequate time for the proper review and consideration.
(Ord. of 7-17-2008(2))
Editor's note— An ordinance adopted July 17, 2008, added provisions that were not specifically amendatory. At the editor's discretion, said provisions were included as § 2-220.
Secs. 2-221—2-246. - Reserved.
