PART I - LOCAL ACTS[1]
ARTICLE I. - BOARD OF COMMISSIONERS[2]

Sec. 1. - Creation; number of members.
Those members of the board of commissioners of Johnson County who are serving as such immediately prior to the effective date of this section shall continue to serve as such members until the regular expiration of their respective terms of office and the election and qualification of their respective successors. On and after January 1, 2005, the board of commissioners of Johnson County shall consist of five members who shall be elected as described in [§ 2].
(2004 Ga. Laws (Act No. 429), p. 3512)
Sec. 2. - Districts.
For purposes of electing members of the board of commissioners, Johnson County is divided into five commissioner districts. One member of the board shall be elected from each such district. The five commissioner districts shall be and correspond to those five numbered districts described in the Redistricting Plan Components Report identified as Plan Name: johnson3 Plan Type: Local User: staff Administrator: Johnson Co.
(2004 Ga. Laws (Act No. 429), p. 3512)
Sec. 3. - Members—Eligibility.
No person shall be a member of the board if that person is ineligible for such office pursuant to O.C.G.A. § 45-2-1 or any other general law applicable to that office.
In order to be elected as a member of the board from a commissioner district, a person must receive the number of votes cast as required by general law for that office in that district only. Only electors who are residents of that commissioner district may vote for a member of the board for that district. At the time of qualifying for election as a member of the board from a commissioner district, each candidate for such office shall specify the commissioner district for which that person is a candidate. A person elected or appointed as a member of the board from a commissioner district must attain residency in the district the person seeks to represent at least by the time the person qualifies as a candidate for the position and must continue to reside in that district during that person's term of office or that office shall become vacant.
All members of the board who are elected thereto shall be nominated and elected in accordance with ch. 2, title 21, O.C.G.A. [O.C.G.A. § 2-21-1 et seq.], the Georgia Election Code.
(2004 Ga. Laws (Act No. 429), p. 3512)
Sec. 4. - Successors in office.
It is further provided that all county commissioners of Johnson County, Georgia holding office at the time of the approval of this Act shall continue to hold office and function until their successors named in this Act are commissioned and duly qualified.
Sec. 5. - Terms; time of election.
Members of the board representing Commission Districts 1 and 5 shall be elected at the November general election in 2004, take office the first day of January immediately following that election, and serve for initial terms of office of two years and until their respective successors are elected and qualified. Members of the board representing Commission Districts 2, 3, and 4 shall be elected at the November general election in 2004, take office the first day of January immediately following that election, and serve for initial terms of office of four years and until their respective successors are elected and qualified. All future successors to members of the board whose terms of office are to expire shall be elected at the November general election immediately preceding the expiration of such terms, take office the first day of January immediately following that election, and serve for terms of office of four years and until their respective successors are elected and qualified.
(2003 Ga. Laws (Act No. 341), p. 4677; 2004 Ga. Laws (Act No. 429), p. 3512)
Sec. 6. - Reserved.
Editor's note— Section 6 was effectively repealed by 2004 Ga. Laws (Act No. 429), p. 3512.
Sec. 7. - Bond.
Before entering upon the discharge of their duties each member of the Board of Commissioners of Johnson County shall give bond in the sum of three thousand ($3000.00) dollars each, with some responsible surety company authorized to do business in Georgia as his surety payable to the Ordinary [probate court] of said county and his successors in office and approved by the Ordinary [probate court] of said County and conditioned for the faithful performance of the duties of the office and the true accounting of all money, funds, and effects of said county going into their hands or coming under their direction. Such bond to be filed in the office of the Ordinary [probate court] and be there recorded and safely kept. The premiums on said bond shall be paid by the county out of its funds.
Sec. 8. - Oath of office.
In addition to the oath required of all county officers, such commissioners shall take an additional oath to perform the duties of their office truly and faithfully to the best of their skill and knowledge, and to account for all money, property and effects, of said County, going into their possession, custody or control and/or expended by or under their direction.
Sec. 9. - Vacancies in office.
Vacancies occurring on the board for any reason shall be filled by the remaining members of the board electing a successor to serve for the unexpired term.
(1969 Ga. Laws (Act No. 242), p. 2602)
Sec. 10. - Meetings; chairman; vice-chairman; voting.
Be it further enacted by the authority aforesaid, that the said Board of Commissioners, shall hold a regular meeting in each month on the first Tuesday thereof, except in January after their election and qualification, when they shall hold a regular meeting on the first work day of January and transact whatever business they see fit and proper. This meeting in no way to conflict with or affect the regular meeting to be held in said month on the first Tuesday. At this meeting or as soon thereafter as practicable, the Board of Commissioners shall organize by electing one of the members as Chairman, one as Vice-Chairman, and every year thereafter a Chairman and Vice-Chairman shall be elected, and nothing herein shall prevent any Chairman or Vice-Chairman from succeeding himself. The Vice-Chairman shall in the absence or disqualification of the chairman or during the vacancy in office of the chairman, perform and discharge all the duties of the chairman, and in the event of a vacancy in the office of the chairman or vice-chairman the same shall be filled by the board at the next regular meeting after such vacancy becomes known. The Chairman shall be the chief executive of the Board. He shall see that all orders, resolutions and rules of said Board are faithfully filled and impartially executed and enforced, and that all the officers, employees and agents of said Board faithfully and impartially discharge the duties required of them. He shall have the general supervision of the affairs of the county, acting under orders of the Board, and shall preside at all meetings of the Board. He shall have the power to convene the Board in extra session upon his own motion, or upon the written request of the other two members of the Board, and shall do so whenever the other two members of the Board shall make such request in writing. Any two members of said Board shall constitute a quorum, but the Chairman is required to vote on all questions when present at the meetings. The vote of any two members shall constitute a majority, and shall be sufficient to decide any question or matter by said Board.
Editor's note— 2004 Ga. Laws (Act No. 429), p. 3512, increased the number of commissioners from three to five as stated in section 1.
Sec. 11. - Compensation.
The chairman of said board shall receive an annual salary of three thousand three hundred ($3,300) dollars and the other members of said board shall receive an annual salary of three thousand ($3,000) dollars. In addition to their salaries, the chairman shall receive an expense allowance of four hundred ($400) dollars per month, the vice-chairman shall receive three hundred seventy-five ($375) dollars, and each of the other members of the board shall receive an expense allowance of three hundred fiftty ($350) dollars per month. Such salaries and expense allowances shall be paid monthly out of the general funds of the county. Shall it be necessary for any member of said board to transact business for the county outside the limits of said County of Johnson, then his or their actual expenses shall also be paid out of the general funds of the county. Commissioners who have completed certified county commissioner training are entitled to a supplement of one hundred ($100) dollars perm onth in addition to whatever other compensation they receive (O.C.G.A. § 36-5-27). All salaries of county commissioner are entitled to annual cost-of-living adjustments. Commissioners may receive group healthand other employment benefits. (O.C.G.A. §§ 36-5-28, 36-1-11.1)
(1951 Ga. Laws (Act No. 94), p. 2317; 1958 Ga. Laws (Act No. 271), p. 2911; 1965 Ga. Laws (Act No. 458), p. 3236; 1969 Ga. Laws (Act No. 242), p. 2602; 1971 Ga. Laws (Act No. 239), p. 2633; 1977 Ga. Laws (Act No. 522), p. 3863; Ord. of 11-13-2006)
Sec. 12. - Clerk—Compensation; bond; duties.
[The] Board of Commissioners of their first regular meeting on the first Tuesday after this Bill has been enacted into law, and their qualification as Commissioner of Johnson County, or as soon thereafter as practicable, and at the first meeting in each year thereafter elect a Clerk of said Board. The salary of said Clerk shall be fixed by said Board not to exceed $50.00 per month. Said Clerk before entering upon his duties shall give bond in the sum of One Thousand ($1000.00) Dollars to be approved by said Board of Commissioners, the premium of said bond, if any, to be paid by the County out of the general fund, and said bond to be payable to the Ordinary [probate court] of said County and his successors in office, and conditioned for the faithful performance of his duties as such clerk and to account for any and all funds, property or effects which may come into his hands as such Clerk, which said bond shall be filed with the Ordinary [probate court] of said County, and recorded on his minutes, and may be sued on in like manner as the bonds of said Commissioners. He shall keep minutes of all meetings of said Board of Commissioners, and an inventory of all properties, and such books and records as may be required of him by said Board of Commissioners, and do such other acts and things as may be required of him by law as such Clerk. Said Board of Commissioners shall or may discharge said Clerk at any time and elect a successor.
Sec. 13. - Competitive bids for purchases.
It shall be the duty of said Board of Commissioners of Johnson County to make all purchases and contracts of purchase in excess of the sum of five thousand ($5,000.00) dollars upon a strictly competitive basis, and to this end said Board or the Clerk thereof, under the direction of said Board shall prepare monthly requirements of the county's needs, and post them on the bulletin board in the court house, or publish same in some newspaper as they see fit and proper, inviting bids upon the proposed purchases, stating the time and place of the opening of said bids and the making of said purchases; that said bids shall be received unopened and shall not be opened until the specified time and place, and at such time and place said bids shall be opened publicly, and the contract for purchasing said supplies shall be to the lowest and best bidder and the supplies purchased therefrom; provided however, should any machinery or equipment of said county which at the time is being used upon any public work suffer a breakdown, requiring purchase of new parts or mechanical repair, that in such case the Board of Commissioners of Roads and Revenue of said County shall be relieved of the above provisions, and shall be authorized to purchase such parts or make such repairs under such conditions as they see fit and proper.
(1990 Ga. Laws (Act No. 333), p. 5301)
Editor's note— The provisions of section 2-51 of the Johnson County Code of Ordinances expand on the purchasing methods of 1990 Ga. Laws (Act No. 333), p. 5301, § 13).
Sec. 14. - Reserved.
Editor's note— Section 14 was repealed by 1945 Ga. Laws (Act No. 214), p. 890.
Sec. 15. - Board approval of purchases.
All purchases of equipment, material, and supplies necessary for said county, before the same shall be paid for, must be approved by the Board of Commissioners at a regular meeting of said Board and said approval be endorsed on said bill and when this is done warrants therefor shall be regularly drawn, which warrant shall be signed by the Chairman and the Clerk as all other warrants drawn on the Treasury before payment thereof is made, except that in the absence of the Chairman, said vice-chairman shall be authorized to sign said warrant.
Sec. 16. - Superintendent—Appointment; duties.
[The] Board of Commissioners may at their discretion and when they deem necessary elect a superintendent. Said superintendent shall also be convict warden. Said superintendent shall give his entire time to said duties as such superintendent and warden. He shall receive such salary as may be fixed by the Board of Commissioners and shall hold his position at the pleasure of the Board of Commissioners.
Sec. 17. - Audits; inspection of books and accounts.
[Johnson County] shall secure the services of a competent public accountant of this State to audit the books and records of the Board of Commissioners for the County of Johnson as of the close of business on February 28, 1945 and shall cause to be published in the newspaper in which the Sheriff's advertisements for Johnson County are published the results of said audit sufficient to show the actual financial condition of Johnson County at that time by showing the actual balance of cash on hand, or deficit, as the case may be, the cost of said audit and the cost of publishing to be paid by the County Commissioners of said County out of County funds. Not later than the fifteenth day of each and every month thereafter said Commissioners shall cause to be published in said newspaper a complete list of all receipts and disbursements of moneys or its equivalent by said Commissioners for the County of Johnson for the previous month, giving the sources from where received, the different amounts paid out for what purpose paid, to whom paid, and showing the balance of cash on hand, or the deficit, as the case may be.
[The] Board of Commissioners shall enter on the minutes of the Board, a copy of each and every report so made and cause to be filed in the Ordinary's office of Johnson County one copy of each of said reports as a public record and to pay the cost of publishing of said reports out of County funds not to exceed twenty (20) cents per column inch for said publications.
[The] Board of Commissioners shall as early as practical, after the passage and approval of this Act, have the books and accounts of the Tax Collector, the County School Superintendent, the County Treasurer, the Sheriff, the Ordinary and all custodians of Johnson County funds audited as of December 31, 1944 and every calendar year thereafter (except the Tax Collector which shall be as of April 20, of each year) by a certified public accountant of this State. Said audits shall be filed in the office of the Board of Commissioners of said County and shall at all times be subject to inspection by any citizen or taxpayer of Johnson County.
(1945 Ga. Laws (Act No. 214), p. 890)
Editor's note— Section 17 was repealed by 1945 Ga. Laws (Act No. 214), p. 890, and the language included herein as section 17 was substituted. For stylistic purposes, the section numbers of the repealing act are omitted.
Sec. 18. - Duties and responsibilities of board.
The said Board of Commissioners shall have, and they are hereby vested with exclusive jurisdiction and control over, the following to-wit: In directing, controlling, and caring for all the property of the county according to law; in levying taxes according to law; in establishing, altering, or abolishing public roads, private roads, private ways, bridges, and ferries, according to law; in establishing abolishing, or changing election precincts and militia districts according to law; in supervising the tax collector or commissioners books; and in allowing the insolvent lists, for said county according to law; in settling all claims against the county; examining and auditing all claims and accounts of officers having the care, management, keeping, collecting, or disbursement of money belonging to the county, or appropriating for its use or benefit, and bringing them to settlement; and especially are they charged with frequently examining and auditing the books of all officers through whose hands any county funds must pass; they may require from all such officers, subject to an examination, such reports, as may be necessary to keep such Board of Commissioners, fully informed at all times, of the financial condition of the county; in controlling, caring for and managing the convicts of the county, according to law; in making rules regulations and provisions for the support of the poor of the county, according to law; in promoting and preserving the public health of the county, with authority to quarantine against contagious diseases and epidemics, according to law; in regulating and fixing licenses fees as may be provided for; and generally to have and exercise all powers heretofore vested in the Ordinary [probate court] of said county when sitting for county purposes; and to exercise such other powers as are granted by law or as may be indispensable to the jurisdiction over county matters or county finance, in selecting and appointing all minor officers of the county whose election or appointment is not otherwise fixed by law, such as superintendent and guards of convicts and chain-gang, janitor of the court-house, superintendent of pauper farm should one be established, county physician and health officer, tax assessors, and county policement; and other officers and guards as needed and authorized by law; and regulating peddling license according to law and such Board shall have the authority to employ a competent attorney-at-law, resident of the county, as county attorney to advise the Board of Commissioners and represent the county in such matters as the Board of Commissioners may direct, who shall be paid such salary or compensation as the Board of Commissioners may direct, out of the regular funds of the county, with authority of said Board of Commissioners to fix his term of office or to discharge him at any time. Relationship of said attorney to any Board member shall not be a disqualification of said attorney to serve as county attorney. Said Board shall have entire control of the convicts of said county sentenced to work upon the roads or works of said county by the proper authorities of the State assigned to the county by proper authorities of the State, and shall so employ them according to law, and under such plans of working, building, repairing, and maintaining the public roads, bridges and works of said county as may now or hereafter be adopted or enforced by law in said county. The said Board shall also have the right and authority to discontinue the chain-gang, and to let the misdemeanor convicts sentenced in the local courts to other counties under such terms and conditions as may be fixed by the said Board and approved by the Prison Commission of Georgia, and shall also have the right to reassign to some other Georgia County, Johnson county's felony convicts under the sanction and rules of said Prison Commission of Georgia.
Sec. 19. - Acceptance of contributions.
Board of Commissioners may receive contributions for the improvement of the public roads or bridges of the county from persons who own property along the same, or from any other person or persons, or from the State Government, or the United States government or from any corporation or firm who may be interested in the improvement of the roads and bridges, and such contributions when received shall be used for the improvement of the road or bridges designated by the contributor.
Sec. 20. - Conflicts of interest.
It shall be unlawful for any member of said Board or the Clerk of said Board to have any financial interest in sale or purchase of any article to or from the county, or to have any financial interest in the purchase or sale of any indebtedness, or evidence of indebtedness, that may be owing to the County, or owed by the County, or to receive from any person any rebate, expense account, transportations, or other valuable consideration in connection with or through the purchase of any equipment, materials or supplies for the county, or the purchase or sale of any indebtedness of or to said county, or the awarding of any contract for said County; and if any commissioner or member of said Board, or the Clerk of said Board, shall knowingly or willfully violate any provision of this section he shall be guilty of a misdemeanor, and upon conviction shall be punished as prescribed by [law] and shall forfeit his office or be discharged from employment.
Sec. 21. - Judicial authority.
At the regular meetings of the Board of Commissioners, they shall be clothed with the power of the court, subject to the same rules that govern, define and control the powers of the court of Ordinary [probate court], when sitting for county purposes.
Sec. 22, 23. - Reserved.
Editor's note— Section 22, concerning effective date of the act, is omitted. Section 23, an erroneous duplication section 22, is also omitted.
Sec. 24. - Treasurer.
The county Commissioners shall appoint a County Treasurer, either a Corporation or an individual, and may require said County Treasurer to give such bond as such Commissioners may assess. Said County Treasurer may be a banking Corporation or an individual, as they see fit. The term of said County Treasurer shall be fore one year, and until it, or his successor is appointed and qualified.
Sec. 25. - Purchasing agent; supplies.
[The] Board of Commissioners shall be the purchasing agent for said county of Johnson, which shall include all supplies and/or fixtures of every kind that are to be paid for with county funds. No purchase or purchases shall be made by said Board, except at a regular meeting of the Board at which a majority of members are present, and upon approval by a majority of members are present, and upon approval by a majority of those present. Provided, however, the Board may permit said officers of Johnson County to purchase supplies for their respective office, in amounts not to exceed three hundred ($300.00) dollars for any one month. Requisitions for supplies must be submitted to said Board in writing, which requisition shall be considered only at a regular meeting of the Board. Provided, however, that in event of an emergency the Chairman, by and with consent of one member, may make purchases to supply emergency.
(1990 Ga. Laws (Act No. 333), p. 5301)
Editor's note— The provisions of Ch. 2, Art. X, of the Johnson County Code of Ordinances expand on the purchasing provisions of 1990 Ga. Laws (Act No. 333), p. 5301).
Sec. 26. - Treasurer—Prohibited acts.
It shall be unlawful for the County Treasurer be it a banking corporation or an individual, to receive directly or indirectly any rebate discount, or profit on any county warrant or order paid by the county of Johnson; and any violation of the provision of this section shall be a misdemeanor and upon conviction shall be punished as prescribed by [law], and shall forfeit his office.
ARTICLE II. - BOARD OF ELECTIONS[3]

Sec. 1. - Creation of board.
Pursuant to the authorization contained in O.C.G.A. § 21-2-40(b), there is created a Johnson County Board of Elections and Registration and said board is empowered with the powers and duties of the election superintendent relating to the conduct of elections and with the powers and duties of the board of registrars relating to the registration of voters and absentee balloting procedures in and for Johnson County, Georgia.
For the purposes of this Act, the terms "election," "elector," "political party," "primary," "public office," "special election," and "special primary" shall have the meanings ascribed to those words by Code Sec. 21-2-2 of the O.C.G.A. [O.C.G.A. § 21-2-2], unless otherwise clearly apparent from the text of this Act; the term "board" means the Johnson County Board of Elections and Registration created by subsection (a) of this section; the term "county" means Johnson County; and the term "superior court" means the Superior Court of Johnson County.
Sec. 2. - Members; appointment; terms.
The Johnson County Board of Elections and Registration shall be composed of four members, each of whom shall be an elector and a resident of Johnson County, and who shall be appointed by majority vote of the Board of Commissioners of Johnson County. In making the initial appointments to the board, the members shall be selected at least 30 days prior to January 1, 2000. Two initial members shall be appointed for terms of two years and two initial members shall be appointed for terms of four years and until their successors are duly appointed and qualified. All successors shall be appointed for terms of four years and until their successors are duly appointed and qualified. The term of each initial member shall commence on January 1, 2000.
The board of elections and registration shall select one of their members as superintendent of elections and that person shall be the administrator and chief executive officer of the board.
Sec. 3. - Members prohibited from holding elective office.
No person who holds elective public office shall be eligible to serve as a member during the term of such elective office, and the position of any member shall be deemed vacant upon such member's qualifying as a candidate for elective public office.
Sec. 4. - Certification of appointment.
The Board of Commissioners of Johnson County shall certify the appointment of each member by filing an affidavit with the clerk of the superior court no later than 15 days preceding the date upon which such members are to take office, stating the name and residential address of the person appointed and certifying such member has been duly appointed as provided in this Act. The clerk of superior court shall record each of such certifications on the minutes of the superior court and shall certify the name of each such appointed member to the Secretary of State and provide for the issuance of appropriate commissions to the members within the same time and in the same manner as provided by law for registrars.
Sec. 5. - Successive terms; resignation; removal.
Each member of the board shall be eligible to serve successive terms, shall have the right to resign at any time by giving written notice of such resignation to the appointing body and to the clerk of the superior court, and shall be subject to removal from the board by the appointing body at any time, for cause, after notice and hearing, in the same manner and by the same authority as provided for removal of registrars.
Sec. 6. - Vacancies in office.
In the event a vacancy occurs in the office of any appointed member before the expiration of his or her term, by removal, death, resignation, or otherwise, the governing authority of Johnson County shall appoint a successor to serve the remainder of the unexpired term as provided for in Sec. 2 of this Act. The clerk of the superior court shall be notified of interim appointments and record and certify such appointments in the same manner as the regular appointment of members.
Sec. 7. - Oath of office.
Before entering upon the member's duties, each member shall take substantially the same oath as required by law for registrars and shall have the same privileges from arrest.
Sec. 8. - Rules and regulations; meetings; minutes; contracts.
The board shall be authorized to organize itself, determine its procedural rules and regulations, adopt bylaws, specify the functions and duties of its employees, and otherwise take such action as is appropriate to the management of the affairs committed to its supervision; provided, however, no such action shall conflict with state law. Action and decision by the board shall be by a majority of the members of the board. The board shall be responsible for the selection, appointment, and training of poll workers in primaries and elections and such workers shall be appointed, insofar as practicable, from lists provided to the board by the county executive committee of each political party.
The board shall fix and establish, by appropriate resolution entered on its minutes, directives governing the execution of matters within its jurisdiction. The board shall hold regular meetings and shall meet not fewer than six times per year. Any specially called meeting shall be called by the superintendent of elections or any two members. The board shall maintain a written record of policy decisions amended to include additions or deletions. Such written records shall be made available for the public to review.
The board shall have the authority to contract with any municipality located within Johnson County for the holding by the board of any primary or election to be conducted within such municipality.
Sec. 9. - Salaries.
The superintendent of elections shall receive $100.00 per month as compensation for carrying out the duties prescribed by this Act and the other members of the board of elections and registration shall receive $50.00 per month as compensation for carrying out their duties as members of said board; said compensation to be paid from county funds. The compensation of the chief deputy registrar shall be $200.00 per month to be paid from county funds. The compensation of clerical assistants and other employees of the board of elections and registration shall be fixed by the board subject to the approval of the Board of Commissioners of Johnson County.
Sec. 10. - Powers and duties.
The Johnson County Board of Elections and Registration shall be empowered with all powers and duties relating to the conduct of elections as election superintendent pursuant to provisions of The Johnson County Board of Elections and Registration is empowered with all of the powers and duties relating to the registration of voters and absentee balloting procedures as board of registrars pursuant to the provisions of O.C.G.A. title 21. This Act is intended to implement the provisions of O.C.G.A. § 21-2-40(b) and shall be construed liberally so as to effectuate that purpose.
The board shall propose an annual budget to the county governing authority for approval or negotiation detailing the expenditures necessary for the execution of its duties.
Sec. 11. - Superintendent of elections; duties.
The superintendent of elections shall be the chief executive officer and shall generally supervise, direct, and control the administration of the affairs of the board pursuant to law and duly adopted resolutions of the board. The board shall fix and establish, by appropriate resolution entered on its minutes, directives governing the execution of matters within its jurisdiction.
Sec. 12. - Offices; supplies; equipment.
The Board of Commissioners of Johnson County shall provide the board with such proper and suitable offices, equipment, materials, and supplies and with such clerical assistance and other employees as the Board of Commissioners of Johnson County shall deem appropriate.
Sec. 13. - Probate judge relieved of election duties.
Except for the appointment of initial members of the Johnson County Board of Elections and Registration as provided in Sec. 2 of this Act, this Act shall become effective on January 1, 2000. On January 1, 2000, the judge of the probate court of Johnson County shall be relieved of all powers and duties relative to elections to which the Johnson County Board of Elections and Registration succeeds by the provisions of this Act and shall deliver to the board of elections and registration all equipment, supplies, materials, books, papers, and records pertaining to such powers and duties.
