Chapter 50 - STREETS, SIDEWALKS AND OTHER PUBLIC PLACES[1]
Footnotes:
--- (1) ---
Cross reference— Buildings and building regulations, ch. 14; businesses, ch. 18; cable communications, ch. 22; law enforcement, ch. 34; offenses and miscellaneous provisions, ch. 38; traffic and vehicles, ch. 58; vehicles for hire, ch. 66; zoning, ch. 70.
State Law reference— Power to construct and maintain roads, Ga. Const. art. 9, sec. 2, par. 3; probate court's jurisdiction involving the removal of obstructions from roads, O.C.G.A. § 15-9-30.1; Georgia Code of Public Transportation, O.C.G.A. § 32-1-1, et seq.; obstructing, encroaching on, or injuring public roads, O.C.G.A. § 32-6-1; inspection of and reports on roads and bridges by county police, O.C.G.A. § 36-8-6; construction and maintenance of county roads, O.C.G.A. § 36-17-20 et seq.

ARTICLE I. - IN GENERAL

Sec. 50-1. - Motorized carts on public sidewalks prohibited.
(a)
Motorized means any vehicle gasoline powered.
(b)
It shall be unlawful to operate any motorized vehicle, motorized equipment, motorized scooters, motorized skateboards, motorized cycles or any other similar vehicle on any public sidewalk within unincorporated Cherokee County.
(Ord. No. 2001-012, §§ 1, 2, 8-14-01)
Secs. 50-2—50-35. - Reserved.
ARTICLE II. - ADDRESS NUMBERS[2]

Footnotes:
--- (2) ---
State Law reference— Georgia Emergency Telephone Number `911' Service Act of 1977, O.C.G.A. § 46-5-120 et seq.

Sec. 50-36. - Penalty for violation of article.
If the owner of property does not place the number as required by this article or remove any other number within 60 days after service of notice and an order to do so by the chief of emergency 911 service or his appointed representative, the owner shall be subject to a fine not to exceed $250.00 after initially receiving a warning.
(Ord. No. 91-6, § 5, 6-28-91)
Sec. 50-37. - Enforcement of article.
The board of commissioners hereby directs the chief of emergency 911 service as follows:
(1)
To serve a notice and order on the owners of premises on all streets numbered or renumbered pursuant to this article and upon all buildings found inaccurately numbered or renumbered or found with numbers insufficiently legible or otherwise in violation of this article. Such notice and order shall require the placing of assigned numbers or removal of numbers in accordance with the provisions of this article.
(2)
To inspect buildings following the service of such notice and order.
(Ord. No. 91-6, § 4, 6-28-91)
Sec. 50-38. - Numbering system; assignment of numbers.
The board of commissioners hereby directs the numbering or renumbering of all roads and streets and accordingly directs the chief of emergency 911 service as follows:
(1)
To number or renumber the streets from time to time as he may deem necessary. One number may be assigned to every 15 feet of length on each side of the street. Where feasible, the odd number shall be placed on the west side of a street running north and south and on the south side of a street running east and west.
(2)
To assign numbers to buildings, existing or planned, in accordance with such street numbering.
(Ord. No. 91-6, § 1, 6-28-91)
Sec. 50-39. - Display of numbers.
(a)
Required. Principal buildings used or to be used for residential, mixed occupancy, commercial, industrial or storage purposes shall bear or display at least one set of assigned street or road numbers.
(b)
Design and location. Such number shall be Arabic in design, with a minimum height of two inches, and shall be mounted in a secure fashion to the building's front wall, or to a porch or other fixed appurtenance in front of the building in the vicinity of the main entryway or main path of travel leading to the main entrance from a public street, or otherwise separately mounted in an approved manner upon the face of a wall or upon a post in the front yard of the premises.
(c)
Height; visibility. All street or road numbers shall be mounted at a height between four feet and ten feet above the adjacent grade, street or exterior porch landing directly beneath, but not higher than 15 feet above the adjoining grade. They shall be legible as to contrasting background, arrangement, spacing, size and uniformity of the whole, so that the numbers may be read with ease during daylight hours by a person possessing at least 20/40 vision as he views the numbers from the centerline of the facing street or road at an elevation of five feet above the finished surface thereof. Trees, shrubs or other obstructions shall not block the street numbers.
(d)
Properties with frontage of 200 feet or more. Properties containing more than a 200-foot frontage on any one street or road shall be required to pass the visibility tests at each available point of pedestrian or vehicular entry or exit from the property.
(e)
Exemption for buildings fronting on expressways. Building elevations that face expressways are exempt from the provisions of this section where they have not been normally assigned house numbers.
(f)
Violations. The absence of house numbers, the insecure fastening or absence of all or any part of a number, the use of any number out of logical sequence for the street or road which it faces, or the failure of a number to meet the elevation requirements or the visibility requirements shall be considered a violation of this article.
(Ord. No. 91-6, §§ 2, 3, 6-28-91)
Secs. 50-40—50-65. - Reserved.
ARTICLE III. - STREET NAMES[3]

Footnotes:
--- (3) ---
Editor's note— Ord. No. 2018-O-016, § 1, adopted December 4, 2018, repealed art. III, §§ 50-66—50-71, and reenacted art. III to read as set out herein. Former art. III pertained to similar subject matter and derived from Res. No. 92-2, §§ 1—6, adopted January 14, 1992.

Sec. 50-66. - Approval of street/road names.
(a)
Request for naming newly constructed street/road or private drive. A request to name a newly constructed street/road or private drive shall be submitted by the property owner via application to the county and shall require review by the county GIS Department, as well as the E-911 Department, in order to ensure compliance with the provisions of this chapter. Should each aforementioned department approve such name request, the county GIS Department shall be authorized to update the county GIS addressing system to reflect such new street/road name or private drive name administratively.
(b)
Request for naming newly constructed subdivision streets/roads. New subdivision streets may be named by the developer, or his/her agent, so long as the name does not in any way conflict with the provisions of this chapter. In order to request such names, the developer, or his/her agent, shall contact the county GIS Department to make such a request. The county GIS Department, as well as the E-911 Department, shall review the request in order ensure compliance with the provisions of this chapter. Should each aforementioned department approve such name request, the county GIS Department shall be authorized to update the county GIS addressing system to reflect such new subdivision street/road names administratively.
(c)
Request to change existing street/road name or private drive. A request to change the name of an existing street/road or private drive shall be submitted by a petition signed by at least two-thirds of the property owners owning property along such street/road or private drive. Such name change request petition shall require review by the county GIS Department, as well as the E-911 Department, in order ensure compliance with the provisions of this chapter. Should each aforementioned department find such name change request petition to be in compliance, the name change request petition shall be submitted in resolution form for consideration by the board of commissioners. Upon approval by the board of commissioners, the County GIS Department shall update the county GIS addressing system to reflect the desired name change request for the street/road or private drive.
(d)
Request for unnamed streets/roads and unnamed private drives. A request to name an unnamed street or unnamed private drive may be submitted by a petition signed by at least two-thirds of the property owners owning property along such street/road or private drive. Such naming request petition shall require review by the county GIS Department, as well as the E-911 Department, in order ensure compliance with the provisions of this chapter. Should each aforementioned department find such naming request petition to be in compliance, the naming request petition shall be submitted in resolution form for consideration by the board of commissioners. Upon approval by the board of commissioners, the County GIS Department shall update the county GIS addressing system to reflect the desired name change request for the street/road or private drive.
(1)
In the absence of such a petition by the property owners or majority of residents to name an unnamed street or unnamed private drive, the GIS Department and E-911 Department shall work in unison to jointly name any such unnamed streets/roads or unnamed private drives should such departments determine that naming such roadways would be in furtherance of the safety of the public. Should such action occur, the naming designation shall be submitted in resolution form for consideration by the board of commissioners. Upon approval by the board of commissioners, the county GIS Department shall update the county GIS addressing system to reflect the naming update for the street/road or private drive.
(Ord. No. 2018-O-016, § 1, 12-4-18)
Sec. 50-67. - Streets/roads naming guidelines.
From the effective date of this article, the naming or renaming of streets/roads/private roads shall be done in manner to provide clear names for citizens and for emergency responders. The purposes of these guidelines shall be to minimize the possibility of emergency personnel being unable to find a location and to minimize the possibility of vandalism and/or theft of roadway signage. With such objectives in mind, the naming of roadways shall be subject to the following standards and guidelines:
(a)
There shall be no duplication of street/road names by sound or spelling within Cherokee County. For example, "Winfield Court" and "Wynfield Court".
(b)
Street/road names shall not contain obscenities, profane, libelous, offensive, or derogatory terms.
(c)
Street/road names shall not contain hyphens, slashes, apostrophes, abbreviations, or other special characters.
(d)
Street/road names shall be easily pronounced and shall avoid unconventional spellings that might cause confusion for emergency responders.
(e)
Street/roads crossing into other jurisdictions must be named consistently.
(g)
Street/road names must consist of a root name and a suffix. A listing of suffixes recognized by the United States Postal Service is available online. For example, "Peachtree (root name) Road (suffix)".
(h)
Additional criteria and concerns may be addressed on a case by case basis by county staff.
(Ord. No. 2018-O-016, § 1, 12-4-18)
Sec. 50-68. - Notification of post office and public agencies.
Any change to a street/road or private drive name within the county shall be submitted to the United States Postal Service and all public safety departments for designation upon the appropriate lists and maps.
(Ord. No. 2018-O-016, § 1, 12-4-18)
Secs. 50-69—50-90. - Reserved.
ARTICLE IV. - ROAD ASSESSMENTS

Sec. 50-91. - Adoption.
It is the intent of the board of commissioners that those persons representing at least 100 percent of the property owners upon any existing county road, who seek to have the road added to the county road map and voluntarily wish that an assessment program be made whereby assessments are made upon their property for the repayment of county funds extended for the upgrade of the road to at least a type 3 road be implemented.
(Ord. No. 94-28, § 1, 12-30-94)
Sec. 50-92. - Petition.
Upon the presentation of a petition containing at least 100 percent of the property owners along the road and after evaluation and cost estimates prepared by the county, the assessment program shall be implemented.
(Ord. No. 94-28, § 2, 12-30-94)
Sec. 50-93. - Assessment program.
The procedure as promulgated in O.C.G.A. § 36-31-1 et seq., shall be utilized by the county for the imposition of voluntary assessment program for road improvements.
(Ord. No. 94-28, § 3, 12-30-94)
Secs. 50-94—50-105. - Reserved.
ARTICLE V. - ROAD DRAINAGE CODE[4]

Footnotes:
--- (4) ---
Cross reference— Floods, ch. 30.

Sec. 50-106. - Title.
This article shall be known as the "Road Drainage Code" and may be cited as such.
(Ord. No. 96-07, ch. 1, 3-22-96)
Sec. 50-107. - Purpose and scope.
The purpose of this article is to regulate activities affecting the drainage system of public ways within the unincorporated area of the county in order to maintain the integrity of the public ways and protect property owners abutting such. Those portions of this article requiring a permit shall not apply to roadways under the jurisdiction of the state department of transportation where permits are issued by that agency. Those portions of this article prohibiting activities which compromise the integrity of the public road system and its drainage structures shall apply to all public ways within the unincorporated area of the county irrespective of the government agency exercising jurisdiction over such roads.
(Ord. No. 96-07, ch. 2, 3-22-96)
Sec. 50-108. - Definitions.
Unless otherwise defined in this article, words shall be defined as defined in the "Comprehensive Zoning and Land Use Resolution of Cherokee County, Georgia," as such now exists or as such may hereafter be amended. For purposes of this article, the term "public way" shall include any road, street, highway, or other public way maintained by the county including all adjacent areas necessary for maintenance thereof including ditches, cuts, and fills. The term "public way" shall also include any facilities appurtenant to such public way, but not limited to, culverts, drainage easements, retention structures, etc. The term "public way" shall also include any public way as herein defined maintained by any government agency other than the county in those instances where such government agent does not have rules and regulations in conflict with this article. For purposes of this article, the words "commercial or business enterprise" shall be construed to include any structure or building other than a dwelling unit whether or not it is actually occupied. The words "commercial or business enterprise" shall also be construed to include any real property upon which vehicles are parked or chattels stored in connection with a for-profit venture whether or not the commercial or business enterprise is actually located on the particular parcel. For purposes of this article, the words "commercial or business enterprise" shall also be construed to include any building designed to accommodate more than two dwelling units notwithstanding the form of ownership utilized. In the case of condominiums, time-sharing plans, and other arrangements of multiple ownership, all persons owing any interest shall be equally responsible under this article together with the person exercising maintenance duties on the premises, if any.
(Ord. No. 96-07, ch. 3, 3-22-96)
Sec. 50-109. - Residential drainage structures, permits.
No person shall install a permanent (more than six months) culvert or other drainage structure on any public way for the purpose of allowing vehicular ingress and egress to a dwelling unit unless and until written notice has been provided to the employees of the public works department, building official, the administrator, or such other person or persons as the board may from time to time designate for that purpose; provided, however, a separate notification shall not be required if the installation is pursuant to a building permit setting forth the size and type of the drainage structure in addition to the usual building information. The notification shall set forth the size and type of the culvert or other drainage structure and approve the installation thereof. No fee shall be charged.
(Ord. No. 96-07, ch. 4, 3-22-96)
Sec. 50-110. - Commercial driveways and drainage structures permits.
No person shall install a permanent (more than six months) culvert or other drainage structure on any public way for the purpose of allowing vehicular ingress and egress to a business or commercial enterprise, nor shall any person install a drive or way for such purpose on any public way, without first having provided written notice in the manner set forth in section 50-109 of this article.
(Ord. No. 96-07, ch. 5, 3-22-96)
Sec. 50-111. - Material to be kept out of drainage system.
(a)
No person shall deposit any trash, garbage, debris, brush, soil or other foreign matter onto any public way. No person shall cause water to be discharged onto any public way from the premises of a commercial or business enterprise, or from the premises of a dwelling unit, or from a vacant lot, which water discharge contains sediment, trash, or other debris in an amount sufficient to, cause deposit of such material within the public way.
(c)
No owner of any interest in real property, possessory or otherwise, shall allow to be discharged from such premises onto any public way water containing sediment, trash, or other debris in an amount sufficient to cause deposit of such material within the public way.
(d)
No person shall alter any public way drainage system in any manner causing water to be discharged across the traveled surface of the public way. All driveway installations, residential, commercial, or otherwise, shall insure that runoff enters the roadway drainage system on the side of the public way abutting the installation.
(Ord. No. 96-07, ch. 6, 3-22-96)
Sec. 50-112. - Violations and penalties.
Any person violating this article shall be punished by a fine not to exceed $1,000.00, imprisonment not to exceed 60 days, or both. Each day of the violation shall constitute a separate offense. The planning director, public works director, building official, the county attorney, other appropriate official or employee, or any adjacent or neighboring property owner who would be damaged by any violation, in addition to the criminal penalties set forth herein, may institute injunction, mandamus, or other appropriate action or proceeding to prevent, correct, or abate the violation or threatened violation.
(Ord. No. 96-07, ch. 7, 3-22-96)
Secs. 50-113—50-120. - Reserved.
ARTICLE VI. - CURFEWS

Sec. 50-121. - Institution of curfew.
(a)
Upon the declaration of a state of emergency by the governor, or upon the determination by the county governing authority, or its designee, of the existence of an emergency or disaster, the county governing authority, its designee or the emergency interim successor may adopt a resolution instituting a curfew when it is determined necessary to protect and safeguard the people and property of the county.
(b)
All of the territory of the unincorporated county shall be subject to the terms of the curfew, unless otherwise specified in the resolution.
(c)
The resolution instituting the curfew shall include the dates and hours that the curfew shall be in effect.
(Ord. No. 99-O-17, § 1, 7-13-99)
Sec. 50-122. - Definitions.
Curfew. A curfew is a regulation requiring the withdrawal from any person not otherwise exempt from this article from appearing in certain public areas during specified hours.
Exempt individuals. Unless otherwise specified in the resolution implementing the curfew, exempt individuals include those individuals engaged in the provision of designated, essential services, such as fire, law enforcement, emergency medical services and hospital services, military services, utility emergency repairs. The resolution may, in the discretion of the governing authority, also exempt regular employees of local industries traveling to and from their jobs with appropriate identification, news media employees, building and repair contractors, properly registered according to county ordinance no. 99-0-20 ("Ordinance to Require Registration and Licensing of Building and Repair Services During a State of Emergency"), performing activities related to construction, repair, renovation or improvement of buildings and other structures damaged during the disaster or emergency.
State of emergency. As defined by O.C.G.A. § 38-3-3(5), a condition declared by the governor when, in his judgment, the threat or actual occurrence of a disaster, emergency, or energy emergency is of sufficient severity and magnitude as to warrant extraordinary efforts in preventing or alleviating the damage, loss, hardship, or suffering threatened or caused thereby.
(Ord. No. 99-O-17, § 2, 7-13-99)
Sec. 50-123. - Prohibition.
It shall be prohibited for any person, other than exempt individuals, to appear in public in the territory subject to the curfew, including but not limited to, streets, highways, alleys, sidewalks, vacant lots, parks, public buildings or any other public places in all or a delineated part of unincorporated areas of the county during the stated hours of the curfew.
(Ord. No. 99-O-17, § 3, 7-13-99)
Sec. 50-124. - Penalties.
Any individual violating this article, upon conviction, shall be punishable by a fine not to exceed $1000.00 per violation or imprisonment not to exceed 60 days, or both.
(Ord. No. 99-O-17, § 4, 7-13-99)
