Chapter 24 - CEMETERIES
ARTICLE I. - IN GENERAL

Secs. 24-1—24-25. - Reserved.
ARTICLE II. - PRESERVATION OF CEMETERIES

Sec. 24-26. - Policy.
(a)
The care accorded the remains of a deceased person reflects respect and regard for human dignity as well as cultural, spiritual, and religious values. The board of commissioners declares that human remains and burial objects are not property to be owned by the persons or entity which owns the land or water where the human remains and burial objects are interred or discovered, but human remains and burial objects are part of a finite, irreplaceable, and nonrenewable cultural heritage of the people of the county which should be protected.
(b)
It is the intent of the board of commissioners that the provisions of this article be construed to require respectful treatment of human remains in accord with the equal and innate dignity of every human being and consistent with the identifiable ethnic, cultural and religious affiliation of the deceased individual as indicated by the method of burial or other historical evidence or reliable information.
(Ord. No. 98-O-5, § 1, 3-10-98)
Sec. 24-27. - Permit required for developing land on which cemetery located.
No known cemetery, burial ground, human remains, or burial objects shall be knowingly disturbed by the owner or occupier of the land on which the cemetery or burial ground is located for the purposes of developing or changing the use of any part of such land unless a permit is first obtained from the board of commissioners, wherein the cemetery or burial ground is located, which shall have the authority to permit such activity except as provided in O.C.G.A. § 36-72-14.
(Ord. No. 98-O-5, § 2, 3-10-98)
Sec. 24-28. - Procedure.
As there is a presumption in favor of leaving a cemetery or burial ground undisturbed, the persons seeking to, in any way, disturb such cemetery shall be required to obtain a permit from the board of commissioners in accordance with O.C.G.A. § 36-72-1 et seq.
(Ord. No. 98-O-5, § 3, 3-10-98)
