Chapter 7 - NUISANCES[1]

Footnotes:
--- (1) ---
State Law reference— Repair, closing and demolition of dwellings unfit for human habitation or buildings or structures that imperil health, safety or welfare, O.C.G.A. § 36-61-11; authority to demolish structures where drug crimes are committed, O.C.G.A. § 41-2-7; authority to repair, close or demolish unfit buildings or structures, O.C.G.A. § 41-2-7; county or municipal ordinances relating to unfit buildings or structures, O.C.G.A. § 41-2-9 et seq.

Sec. 7-1. - Definitions.
The following words, terms and phrases, when used in this chapter, shall have the meanings ascribed to them in this section, except where the context clearly indicates a different meaning:
City means the City of Dawsonville, Georgia.
Closing means securing and causing a dwelling, building, or structure to be vacated.
Dwellings, building, or structures means any building or structure or part thereof used and occupied for human habitation, commercial, industrial, or business uses, or intended to be so used, and includes any outhouses and appurtenances belonging thereto or usually enjoyed therewith and also includes any building or structure of any design.
Mayor and council means the mayor and council of the City of Dawsonville, Georgia.
Owner means the holder of the title in fee simple and every mortgagee of record.
Parties in interest means persons in possession of such property and all individuals, associations, and corporations who have interest of record in the county where the property is located in a dwelling, building, or structure, including executors, administrators, guardians and trustees.
Public authority means any housing authority or any officer who is in charge of any department or branch of the government of the municipality, county, or state relating to health, fire, or building regulations or to other activities concerning dwellings, buildings, or structures in the municipality.
Repair means closing a dwelling, building, or structure or the cleaning or removal of debris, trash, and other materials present and accumulated which create a health or safety hazard in or about any dwelling, building, or structure.
(Ord. of 5-3-1988, § 1)
Sec. 7-2. - Mayor and council—Administration.
The mayor and council shall administer and enforce the provisions of this chapter and is hereby appointed to exercise the powers prescribed by this chapter.
(Ord. of 5-3-1988, § 2)
Sec. 7-3. - Same—Duties.
The mayor and council shall have, among others, the following duties:
(1)
Whenever a request is filed with the mayor and council by a public authority or by at least five residents of the municipality charging that any dwelling, building, or structure is unfit for human habitation or for commercial, industrial, or business use, or whenever it appears to the mayor and council, on its own motion, that any dwelling, building, or structure is unfit for human habitation or is unfit for its current commercial, industrial, or business use, the mayor and council shall, if its preliminary investigation discloses a basis for such charges, issue and cause to be served upon the owner of and any parties in interest in such dwelling, building, or structure a complaint stating:
a.
The charges in this respect and containing a notice that a hearing shall be held before the mayor and council, or its designated agent, at a place within the county, fixed not less than ten days nor more than 30 days after the serving of such complaint;
b.
That the owner and any parties in interest shall be given the right to file an answer to the complaint and to appear in person, or otherwise, and give testimony at the place and time fixed in the complaint; and
c.
That the rules of evidence prevailing in courts of law or equity shall not be controlling in hearings before the mayor and council.
(2)
If after such notice and hearing the mayor and council determines that the dwelling, building, or structure under consideration is unfit for human habitation or is unfit for its current commercial, industrial, or business use, it shall state in writing its findings of fact in support of such determination and shall issue and cause to be served upon the owner thereof an order:
a.
If the repair, alteration, or improvement of such dwelling, building, or structure can be made at a reasonable cost in relation to the value of the dwelling, building, or structure, requiring the owner or parties in interest, within the time specified in the order, to repair, alter, or improve such dwelling, building, or structure so as to render it fit for human habitation or for current commercial, industrial, or business use or to vacate and close the dwelling, building, or structure as a human habitation; or
b.
If the repair, alteration, or improvement of the such dwelling, building, or structure cannot be made at a reasonable cost in relation to the value of the dwelling, building, or structure, requiring the owner or parties in interest, within the time specified in the order, to remove or demolish such dwelling, building, or structure.
In no event shall the mayor and council require removal or demolition of any dwelling, building, or structure except upon a finding that the cost of repair, alteration, or improvement thereof exceeds one-half the value such dwelling, buildings, or structure will have when repaired to satisfy the minimum requirements of this law.
(3)
If the owner or parties in interest fail to comply with an order to repair, alter, improve, vacate, and close or demolish such dwelling, building, or structure, the mayor and council may cause such dwelling, building, or structure to be repaired, altered, or improved or to be vacated and closed or demolished, and that the mayor and council may cause to be posted on the main entrance of any building, dwelling, or structure so closed a placard with the following words: "This building is unfit for human habitation or commercial, industrial, or business use; the use or occupation of this building for human habitation or for commercial, industrial, or business use is prohibited and unlawful."
(4)
The mayor and council is hereby authorized to proceed to effectuate the purpose of this article with respect to particular properties which it shall have found to be unfit for human habitation or unfit for its current commercial, industrial, or business use.
(5)
The amount of the cost of such repair, vacating, closing, removal, or demolition by the mayor and council shall be a lien against the real property upon which such cost was incurred. Such lien shall attach to the real property upon the payment of all costs of repair or demolition by the city and take filing of an itemized statement of the total sum of such costs in the office of the city clerk on a lien docket maintained by such clerk for such purposes. Also, an itemized statement of the total sum of such costs shall be filed in the office of the clerk of the superior court on the lien docket maintained by such clerk for such purposes. If the dwelling, building, or structure is removed or demolished by the city, the city shall sell the materials of such dwellings, buildings, or structures and shall credit the proceeds of such sale against the cost of the removal or demolition. Any balance remaining shall be deposited in the superior court, shall be secured in such manner as may be directed by such court, and shall be disbursed by such court to the persons found to be entitled thereto by final order or decree of such court. Nothing in this article shall be construed to impair or limit in any way the power of the city to define and declare nuisances and to cause their removal or abatement by summary proceedings or otherwise.
(Ord. of 5-3-1988, § 3)
Sec. 7-4. - Same—Powers of the mayor and council.
The mayor and council shall have the following powers in addition to others herein granted:
(1)
To investigate the dwelling conditions in the municipality in order to determine which dwellings, buildings, or structures therein are unfit for human habitation or are unfit for current commercial, industrial, or business use;
(2)
To administer oaths and affirmations, to examine witnesses, and to receive evidence;
(3)
To enter upon premises for the purpose of making examinations; provided, however, that such entries shall be made in such manner as to cause the least possible inconvenience to the persons in possession;
(4)
To appoint and fix the duties of such officers, agents, and employees as he deems necessary to carry out the purposes of this chapter; and
(5)
To delegate any of its functions and powers under this chapter to such officers and agents as it may designate.
(Ord. of 5-3-1988, § 4)
Sec. 7-5. - Same—Determination of unfitness.
The mayor and council may determine, under existing ordinances, that a dwelling, building, or structure is unfit for human habitation or is unfit for its current commercial, industrial, or business use if it finds that conditions exist in such building, dwelling, or structure which are dangerous or injurious to the health, safety, or morals of the occupants of such dwelling, building, or structure, of the occupants of neighborhood dwellings, building, or structures, or of other residents of such municipality such conditions may include, without limiting the generality of the foregoing, the following:
(1)
Defects therein increasing the hazards of fire, accidents, or other calamities;
(2)
Lack of adequate ventilation, light, or sanitary facilities;
(3)
Dilapidation;
(4)
Disrepair;
(5)
Structural defects;
(6)
Uncleanliness; and
(7)
Unsightliness.
Sec. 7-6. - Collection of amounts due on liens.
The city may enforce the collection of any amount due on a lien, as referred to in section 7-3(5) only in the following manner:
(1)
The owner or parties at interest shall be allowed to satisfy the amount due on such lien by paying to the city, within 30 days after the perfection of such lien, a sum of money equal to 25 percent of the total amount due and by further paying to the city the remaining balance due on such lien, together with interest at the rate of seven percent per annum in three equal annual payments each of which shall become due and payable on the anniversary date of the initial payment made as hereinabove prescribed;
(2)
Should the property upon which lien is perfected be sold, transferred, or conveyed by the owner or parties at interest at any time prior to the termination of the such three-year period, then the entire balance on such lien shall be due and payable to the city; and
(3)
Should the amount due on such lien, or any portion thereof, be unpaid after the passage on such three-year period, or upon the occurrence of the contingency provided for in subsection (2) of this section, the city may enforce the collection of any amount due on such lien for alteration, repair, removal, or demolition of dwellings, buildings, or structures in the same manner as provided in O.C.G.A. § 48-45-358 and other applicable state statutes. This procedure shall be subject to the right of redemption by any person having any right, title, or interest in or lien upon such property, all as provided by O.C.G.A. title 48, ch. 4, art. 3 (O.C.G.A. § 48-4-40 et seq.).
(Ord. of 5-3-1988, § 6)
Sec. 7-7. - Service of complaints or orders.
(a)
Complaints or orders issued by the mayor and council pursuant to this chapter shall, in all cases, be served upon each person in possession of such property, each owner, and each party in interest. The return of service, signed by the public officer or his agent, or an affidavit of service executed by any citizen of this state, reciting that a copy of such complaints or orders was served upon each person in possession of such property, each owner, and each party in interest personally or by leaving such copy at the place of his residence, shall be sufficient evidence as to the service of such person in possession, owner, and party in interest.
(b)
If any of the owners and parties in interest shall reside out of the city, then service shall be perfected by causing a copy of such complaint or order to be served upon such party or parties by the sheriff or any lawful deputy of the county of the residence of such party or parties or such service may be made by any citizen. The return of such sheriff or lawful deputy or the affidavit of such citizen, that such party or parties were served either personally or by leaving a copy of the complaint or order at the residence, shall be conclusive as to such service.
(c)
Residents of this state shall be served by publishing the same once each week for two successive weeks in a newspaper printed and published in the county and circulated in the city. A copy of such complaint or order shall be posted in a conspicuous place on premises affected by the complaint or order. Where the address of such nonresidents is known, a copy of such complaint or order shall be mailed to them by registered or certified mail.
(d)
In the event either the owner or any party in interest is a minor or an insane person or person laboring under disabilities, the guardian or other personal representative of such person shall be served, and if such guardian or personal representative resides outside the city or is a nonresident, he shall be served as provided for in subsection (c) or (d) of this section in such cases. If such minor or insane person or person laboring under disabilities has no guardian or personal representative, or in the event such minor or insane person lives outside the city or is a nonresident, service shall be perfected by serving such minor or insane person personally or by leaving a copy at the place of his residence which shall be sufficient evidence as to the service of such person or persons. In the case of other persons who live outside of the city or are nonresidents, service shall be perfected by serving the judge of the county probate court, who shall stand in the place of and protect the rights of such minor or insane person or appoint a guardian ad litem for such person.
(e)
In the event the whereabouts of any owner or party in interest is unknown and the same cannot be ascertained in the exercise of reasonable diligence and the mayor of the city shall make an affidavit to that effect, then the service of such complaint or order upon such persons shall be made in the same manner as provided in subsection (c) of this section or service may be perfected upon any person, firm, or corporation holding itself out as an agent for the property involved.
(f)
A copy of such complaint or order shall be filed in the office of the superior court clerk and such filing of the complaint or order shall have the same force and effect as other lis pendens notices provided by law. Any such complaint or order or an appropriate lis pendens notice may contain a statement to the effect that a lien may arise against the described property and that an itemized statement of such lien is maintained on a lien docket maintained by the city clerk.
(Ord. of 5-3-1988, § 7)
Sec. 7-8. - Injunctions.
Any person affected by an order issued by the mayor and council may petition to the superior court for an injunction restraining the city from carrying out the provisions of the order and the court may, upon such petition, issue a temporary injunction restraining the city pending the final disposition of the cause; provided, however, that such person shall present such petition to the court within 15 days of the posting and service of the order of the mayor and council. De novo hearings shall be had by the court on petitions within 20 days. The court shall hear and determine the issues raised and shall enter such final order or decree as law and justice may require; provided, however, that it shall not be necessary to file bond in any amount before obtaining a temporary injunction under this section.
(Ord. of 5-3-1988, § 8)
Sec. 7-9. - Eminent domain.
Nothing in this chapter shall be construed as preventing the owner or owners of any property from receiving just compensation for the taking of such property by the power of eminent domain under the laws of this state nor as permitting any property to be condemned or destroyed except in accordance with the police power of this state.
(Ord. of 5-3-1988, § 9)
Sec. 7-10. - Authority to use revenues, grants, and donations to repair, close, or demolish unfit buildings or structures.
The city may make such appropriations from its revenues as it may deem necessary and may accept and apply grants or donations to assist it in carrying out the provisions of ordinances adopted in connection with the exercise of the powers granted hereunder.
(Ord. of 5-3-1988, § 10)
Sec. 7-11. - Construction of this chapter with the municipal charter and other laws, ordinances and regulations.
Nothing in this chapter shall be construed to abrogate or impair the powers of the courts or of any department of the city to enforce any provisions of its Charter or its ordinances or regulations nor to prevent or punish violations thereof, and the powers conferred by this chapter shall be in addition to and supplemental to the powers conferred by any other law.
(Ord. of 5-3-1988, § 11)
Sec. 7-12. - Other conditions constituting nuisances.
(a)
In addition to any other condition constituting a nuisance as set forth in this chapter, the following conditions may be declared to be nuisances when any one of them endangers the health, welfare, or good order of the community:
(1)
Stagnant water on premises;
(2)
Any dead or decaying matter, weeds, vegetation, or any fruit, vegetable, animal, or rodent upon premises which is odorous or capable of causing disease or annoyance to the inhabitants of the city;
(3)
The generation of smoke or fumes in sufficient amounts to cause odor or annoyance to the inhabitants of the city;
(4)
The pollution of public water or injection of matter into the sewerage system which would be damaging thereto;
(5)
Maintaining a dangerous or diseased animal or fowl;
(6)
Obstruction of a public street, highway, or sidewalk without a permit;
(7)
All walls, trees, and buildings that may endanger persons or property;
(8)
Any business or building where illegal activities are habitually and commonly conducted in such a manner as to reasonably suggest that the owner or operator of the business or building was aware of the illegal activities and failed to reasonably attempt to prevent the activities;
(9)
Unused iceboxes, refrigerators, and the like, unless the doors, latches, or locks thereof are removed, and unused, abandoned, or discarded containers with a capacity of at least 1½ cubic feet;
(10)
Use by the owner or occupant of a residential building, structure, or property or the premises of such residential property for the open storage of any junked motor vehicle, glass, building material, building rubbish, or similar items. For the purpose of this subsection, the term "junked motor vehicle" is defined as a motor vehicle that is in a state of disrepair and incapable of being moved under its own power;
(11)
Any one or more of the following conditions within the city, which shall be and is hereby declared a nuisance:
a.
Obstruction of any public watercourse or waterway;
b.
Pollution of any public watercourse or waterway;
c.
Uncovered piles of garbage or refuse of any kind;
d.
Buried garbage or refuse of any kind;
e.
Infestation by rats and vermin;
f.
Accumulation on any property of debris, objects, materials, or a condition which may constitute a health, accident, or fire hazard, or which creates a blighting or deteriorating effect in the city; and
(12)
Any other condition constituting a nuisance under state law.
(b)
Any of the foregoing conditions may be abated by the mayor and council by utilizing any one or more of the remedies and procedures set forth in this chapter.
(Ord. of 5-3-1988, § 12)
Sec. 7-13. - Nuisances per se; emergency conditions.
Nothing contained in this chapter shall prevent the mayor and council from summarily and without notice ordering the abatement of or abating any nuisance that is a nuisance per se in the law or where the case is an urgent one and the health and safety of the public or a portion thereof is in imminent danger.
(Ord. of 5-3-1988, § 13)
