Chapter 100 - GENERAL AND ADMINISTRATIVE PROVISIONS

Sec. 100-1. - Title.
The title of this part shall be known as the "Land Development Code of Harlem, Georgia." This part may also be cited as the "Land Development Code" or the "LDC."
Sec. 100-2. - Applicability of part II, chapter 1.
Unless otherwise stated or where the context of the provision clearly shows a different intent, the provisions of chapter 1, under part II of this Code of Ordinances, shall apply to the chapters contained in this part.
Sec. 100-3. - Fee requirements.
Reasonable fees to offset the costs of administration of this part may be set by the mayor and council, unless otherwise provided, and maintained on file with the city manager.
Sec. 100-4. - Conflicts.
(a)
Where general requirements of a provision under this Code or the land development code conflict with a specific requirement of a provision under the land development code including, but not limited to, building and construction regulations, coastal zone management regulations, drainage and flood control, planning and development, and subdivision regulations, then the provision concerning the specific requirement under the land development code shall prevail.
(b)
In the event that a provision or requirement under this Code or the land development code in any way conflicts with another provision or requirement under the land development code, then the more stringent provision or requirement shall prevail.
Sec. 100-5. - Interpretation, application and jurisdiction.
In interpreting and applying the land development code, the requirements contained herein are declared to be minimum requirements necessary to carry out the stated purposes. Except as herein provided, this title shall not be deemed to interfere with, abrogate, annul or otherwise affect in any manner whatsoever easements, covenants or other agreements between parties. Whenever the provisions of this title impose greater restrictions upon the use of land or buildings or upon the height of buildings or require a larger percentage of lot to be left unoccupied than the provisions of other ordinances, rules, regulations, permits of any easements, covenants or other agreements between parties, the provisions of this title shall govern as provided below.
Sec. 100-6. - Purpose.
This chapter is adopted for the following purposes:
(1)
Promote the orderly, planned, efficient, and economic development of the city and to guide future growth in accordance with the comprehensive plan.
(2)
Ensure that lands subdivided are of such character that they can be used for building purposes without danger to the health or safety of residents, and to secure safety from fire, flood, or other menace.
(3)
Prevent the pollution of air, land, streams, and ponds, as well as encourage the wise use and management of natural resources throughout the city, and preserve the topography and beauty of the community and the value of land.
(4)
Ensure the proper provision of improvements such as drainage, water, sewerage, and capital improvements such as schools, parks, playgrounds, recreational facilities and transportation facilities.
(5)
Provide for open spaces through the most efficient design and layout of the land.
(6)
Establish procedures for the subdivision and re-subdivision of land in order to further the orderly development of land.
(7)
Provide for the proper documenting of subdivided land and proper legal descriptions.
(8)
Help eliminate the costly maintenance problems that develop when streets and lots are established without proper consideration given to various public purposes.
(9)
Facilitate and inform lot purchasers who generally lack the specialized knowledge needed to evaluate subdivision improvements and design.
(Code 2004, § 152.003; Ord. No. 381, 4-10-2006)
Sec. 100-7. - Definitions.
The following words, terms and phrases, when used in this chapter, shall have the meanings ascribed to them in this section, except where the context clearly indicates a different meaning:
Block means an area of land within a subdivision that is entirely surrounded by public streets, public lands, railroad rights-of-way, watercourses, or other well-defined and fixed boundaries. (See figure 2.2.A.)
Figure 2.2.A. Block
Building permit means formal permission from the city to start any construction project. The issuance of a building permit indicates that plans for a new structure, addition, renovation, foundation, plumbing, prefabricated structure, temporary building or manufactured home have been approved by local government officials and that the plans comply with all applicable provisions of the land development code.
Commercial means any type of building other than residential.
Comprehensive plan means any plan adopted by the mayor and city council, or portion of such plan. The term "comprehensive plan" shall be construed liberally to include the major thoroughfare plan, master parks and recreation plan, or any other study, document, or written recommendation pertaining to subjects normally within the subject matter of a comprehensive plan as provided by the Georgia Planning Act of 1989, if formally adopted by the local city council.
Construction means the erection of a new building or the alteration of an existing building in connection with its repair or renovation or in connection with making an addition to an existing building and shall include the replacement of a malfunctioning, unserviceable, or obsolete faucet, shower head, toilet or urinal in an existing building. The installation of certain infrastructure improvements on land associated with the subdivision of land.
Dedication means the deliberate appropriation of land by an owner for any general and public use or purpose, reserving to himself no other rights than such as are compatible with the full exercise and enjoyment of the public uses to which the property has been devoted.
Development means any manmade change on improved or unimproved real estate, including, but not limited to, buildings, structures, mining, dredging, filling, grading, paving, excavation, drilling, installation of utilities, drainage facilities or permanent storage of materials or equipment.
Easement means a grant of one or more of the property rights by the property owner to and/or for use by the public, a corporation, or another person or entity. (See figure 2.2.C.)
Figure 2.2.C. Easement
Health department means the health department of the county.
Lot means a portion of a subdivision, or any other tract or parcel of land, intended as a unit for transfer of ownership or for development, or both.
Open space means land that forms a permanent, undivided or relatively undivided, undeveloped area. As much as 25 percent of the open space may be devoted to active recreational facilities, as defined. Easements for electric transmission lines or any other aboveground improvement shall not be considered open space. Stormwater management features, such as lakes, ponds, and ways, may be considered open space at the discretion of the community development director provided that such areas are designed and maintained in a manner that contributes to open space and the aesthetics of the subdivision.
Open space, public, means an area within a development or subdivision designed and intended for the use and enjoyment of all residents or for the use and enjoyment of the public in general.
Owner means a person having a majority fee simple interest in real property, or a majority interest through any other form of ownership.
Planning and zoning commission means the city planning and zoning commission.
Plat means a map or drawing indicating the subdivision, re-subdivision, or recombination of land.
Recreational vehicles in this chapter mean and include, but are not limited to, the following specific vehicles:
(1)
Aircraft is a general term applying to all manner of aircraft, whether impelled by wind or mechanical devices, and which are designed for recreational or vacation use. An aircraft when mounted upon a trailer shall be considered one unit.
(2)
Camper means a separate vehicle designed for human habitation and which can be attached or detached from a pickup truck. When removed from the truck, campers are called "unmounted campers." These campers are sometimes referred to as "truck campers" and "overhead campers." Camper shells on pickup trucks are excluded from this definition.
(3)
Camping trailer means a type of trailer or trailer coach, the walls of which are so constructed as to be collapsible and made out of either canvas or similar cloth, or some form of rigid material such as fiberglass, plastic or metal. The walls are collapsed while the recreational vehicle is being towed or stored and are raised or unfolded when the vehicle becomes temporary living quarters and is not being moved.
(4)
Motor home means a motorized vehicle that has a truck or motor van chassis primarily designed to provide temporary living quarters for travel, camping. recreation and vacation use.
(5)
Off-road vehicle means a dirt bike, dune buggy, off-road vehicle (two-wheel, three-wheel, four-wheel or tracked).
(6)
Travel trailer means a trailer without its own motive power, designed as a temporary dwelling for travel, camping, recreation and vacation use. This definition includes fifth wheelers.
(7)
Utility trailer means a trailer without its own motive power designed and/or used for the transportation of animals, goods, material, aircraft, watercraft and all manner of motor vehicles.
(8)
Watercraft is a general term applying to all manner of watercraft, whether impelled by wind, oars or mechanical devices, and which are designed primarily for recreation or vacation use. A watercraft when mounted upon a trailer shall be considered one unit.
Residential means any building or unit of a building intended for occupancy as a dwelling but shall not include a hotel or motel.
Right-of-way means:
(1)
A strip of land acquired by reservation, dedication, forced dedication, prescription, or condemnation and intended to be occupied by a road, crosswalk, railroad, electric transmission line, oil or gas pipeline, water line, sanitary storm sewer, or other similar use.
(2)
Generally, the right of one to pass over the property of another.
Road may be used interchangeably with the term "street."
Street means any vehicular way, other than an alley, that:
(1)
Is an existing federal, state, county or municipal roadway;
(2)
Is constructed as shown upon a plat approved pursuant to law and is open to vehicle travel;
(3)
Is constructed and open to vehicle travel as approved by other official action of the mayor and city council; or
(4)
Is constructed and open to vehicle travel and shown on a plat duly filed and recorded in the clerk's office, county superior court, prior to the effective date of the ordinance from which this chapter is derived. Land between the street lines, whether improved or unimproved, shall be considered part of the street.
Subdivider means any person dividing or proposing to divide land so as to constitute a subdivision as herein defined.
Subdivision means:
(1)
Any division or re-division of a lot, tract, or parcel, regardless of its existing or future use, into two or more lots, tracts, or parcels. The term "subdivision" means the act or process of dividing property. The term "subdivision" includes re-subdivision and, when appropriate to the context, relates either to the process of subdividing or to the actual land or area which is subdivided.
(2)
Where appropriate to the context, the term "subdivision" also may be used in reference to the aggregate of all lots held in common ownership at the time of division.
Utility means public or private water or sewer piping systems, water or sewer pumping stations, electric power lines, fuel or gas pipelines, telephone lines, roads, cable telephone line, fiber optic cable, driveways, bridges, river/lake access facilities, stormwater systems and drainageways, and railroads or other utilities identified by the city. As appropriate to the context, the term "utility" may also include all persons, companies, or governmental agencies supplying the same.
(Code 2004, §§ 155.11, 152.005, 53.02; Ord. No. 316, 5-13-1991; Ord. No. 381, 4-10-2006; Am. Ord. No. 456, 9-16-2013; Am. Ord. No. 458, 10-15-2013; Am. Ord. No. 468, 7-28-2014; Am. Ord. No. 479, 1-26-2015; Am. Ord. No. 488, 1-25-2016; Ord. No. 1710, 7-24-2017; Ord. No. 2203 , 3-28-2022; Ord. No. 2218 , 10-24-2022)
Sec. 100-8. - Duties of the community development director.
Unless otherwise provided, this land development code shall be administered and enforced by the community development director and/or the community development director. The duties of the community development director shall include:
(1)
The examination of applications pertaining to the use of land, buildings, and/or structures within the city limits; issuing administrative decisions regarding whether the proposed uses conform with the provisions of this land development code; and issuing certain permits, approval and denials as authorized by this land development code.
(2)
Conducting such inspections of buildings, structures, and uses of land as are necessary to determine compliance with the provisions of this land development code and this Code.
(3)
Maintaining permanent and current zoning map and amendments.
(4)
Any other duties as provided for in this Code or this land development code or as delegated by the city manager from time to time.
(Ord. No. 2203 , 3-28-2022)
Editor's note— Ord. No. 2203 , adopted March 28, 2022, amended the title of § 100-8 from "Duties of the community development coordinator" to "Duties of the community development director," as set out herein.
