ARTICLE V. - SUSPENSION AND REVOCATION

Sec. 8-149. - Grounds.
Any license which has been issued or which may hereafter be issued by the city may be suspended or revoked for due cause. The term "due cause," for purposes of this section, shall include, but not be limited to:
(1)
Arrest or conviction (to include a plea of nolo contendere) by local, state or federal authorities of the licensee, license representative or any employees of the licensee for any felony, or any misdemeanor of a crime opposed to decency and morality, or any law, regulation or ordinance involving beverage alcohol, gambling, or tax law violations;
(2)
Citations issued by local, state or federal authorities to the licensee, license representative or any employees of the licensee for violations of any part of this chapter or any regulation pertaining to state or federal licensing of the possession, sale or distribution of beverage alcohol;
(3)
Suspension or revocation of any state license required as a condition for the possession, sale or distribution of beverage alcohol;
(4)
Material falsification of any fact given in an application for a license issued under this article or bearing upon the licensee's qualification therefore; any act which may be construed as a subterfuge in an effort to circumvent any of the qualifications for a license under this article shall be deemed a violation of the requirement attempted to be circumvented;
(5)
The licensed business fails to properly account for, file, report and maintain any records or remit or pay any renewal license fee imposed, sales taxes, or excise taxes required under the city ordinances;
(6)
Any other factors known to the licensing authority whereby it is objectively shown the licensee, by reason of business experience, financial standing, trade association, personal association, record of arrests, or reputation in any community in which he has resided, is not likely to maintain the operation for which he is licensed in conformity with federal, state or local laws. With respect to this section, it shall be rebuttably presumed that the violative act was done with the knowledge or consent of the licensee; provided, however, that such presumption may be rebutted only by evidence which precludes every other reasonable hypothesis save that such licensee did not know, assist or aide in such occurrence, or in the exercise of full diligence could not have discovered or prevented such activity.
(Ord. No. 2003-13, § I(3-100(a)), 9-9-2003)
Sec. 8-150. - Notice.
Action to suspend or revoke a license shall be commenced by the city administrator making written recommendation to the city council, and giving written notice to the licensee, either by certified mail, return receipt requested, or by personal service upon the licensee or his agent at the licensed location, stating the grounds therefore, and the date, time and place such matter will be heard by the city council. Notice shall be served at least ten days prior to the date of the hearing. Included in the notice shall be an advisement of the licensee's right to be heard before the council. Any licensee requiring subpoenas to compel the attendance of witnesses or documents at the hearing shall file a written request with the city manager at least five days prior to the hearing. Hearings may be continued for good cause only.
(Ord. No. 2003-13, § I(3-100(b)), 9-9-2003)
Sec. 8-151. - Final decision.
All final decisions to suspend or revoke a license shall be made by the city council, in writing with the reasons therefore stated. Notice of a final decision shall be given the licensee within three business days.
(Ord. No. 2003-13, § I(3-100(c)), 9-9-2003)
Sec. 8-152. - Hearings.
Hearings shall only be as formal as necessary to preserve order and shall be compatible with the principles of justice. The city attorney or his designee shall present the city's case and bear the burden of proving by a preponderance of the evidence that due cause exists to suspend or revoke the license. The licensee may be represented by legal counsel, may confront and cross examine witnesses, and shall have the right to call witnesses and present evidence in his behalf. A hearing record shall be maintained by the city; however, either party may arrange for transcription by a court reporter at his sole expense. Hearings shall be presided over by the mayor who shall preserve order and rule upon all matter of evidence. Irrelevant, immaterial and unduly repetitious evidence shall be excluded.
(Ord. No. 2003-13, § I(3-100(d)), 9-9-2003)
Sec. 8-153. - Surety bond.
Upon the second suspension or revocation of a license within any five-year period, as a prerequisite or reinstatement or reissuance of the license, the licensee, in addition to the requisite fees assessed under this article, shall post a surety bond, payable to the city, in the amount of $5,000.00, conditioned upon the licensee maintaining the operation for which he is licensed in conformity with all federal, state and local laws, ordinances, rules and regulations. Upon any subsequent act giving due cause for suspension or revocation of the license, the bond shall be forfeited and the license revoked.
(Ord. No. 2003-13, § I(3-100(e)), 9-9-2003)
Sec. 8-154. - Appeals—From city administra- tor's decision.
Appeals to the mayor and council regarding the denial of a license by the city administrator pursuant to section 8-59 shall be heard utilizing the procedures set forth in this section.
(Ord. No. 2003-13, § I(3-100(f)), 9-9-2003)
Sec. 8-155. - Same—From mayor and council's decision.
Appeals from an action by the mayor and council to affirm the decision of the city administrator to deny a license or to revoke or suspend a license pursuant to this article shall be by writ of certiorari to the superior court of the county.
(Ord. No. 2003-13, § I(3-100(g)), 9-9-2003)
Secs. 8-156—8-169. - Reserved.
