ARTICLE VIII. - MICROBREWERIES, BREW PUBS AND MICRODISTILLERIES[1]

Footnotes:
--- (1) ---
Editor's note— An ordinance adopted Nov. 25, 2019, set out provisions intended for use as art. VIII, §§ 8-212—8-216. To preserve the style of this Code, and at the editor's discretion, these provisions have been included as art. VIII, §§ 8-231—8-234.
Editor's note— Ord. No. 2022-244 , § 1, adopted July 11, 2022, amended the title of art. VIII to read as herein set out. The former art. VIII title pertained to microbreweries and brew pubs.

Sec. 8-231. - Definitions.
The following definitions shall apply to this article:
Barrel means 31 gallons.
Brewer means a manufacturer of malt beverages.
Brewery means a facility involved in the creation of malt beverages that produces 15,000 barrels or more (or the equivalent) per year of malt beverages.
Brewpub means any eating establishment in which beer or malt beverages are manufactured or brewed, subject to the barrel production limitation prescribed in O.C.G.A. § 3-5-36, and its successors, for retail consumption on premises and solely in draft form. As used herein, the term eating establishment means an establishment which is licensed to sell distilled spirits, malt beverages, or wines and which derives at least 50 percent of its total annual gross food and beverages sales from the sale of prepared meals or food; provided however that when determining the total annual gross food and beverage sales, barrels of malt beverages sold to licensed wholesale dealers, or to the public for consumption off the premises, shall not be used.
Manufacturer means any maker, producer, or bottler of an alcoholic beverage. The term also means:
(a)
In the case of distilled spirits, any person engaged in distilling, rectifying, or blending any distilled spirits; provided, however, that a vintner that blends wine with distilled spirits to produce a fortified wine shall not be considered a manufacturer of distilled spirits;
(b)
In the case of malt beverages, any brewer; and
(c)
In the case of wine, any vintner.
Microbrewery means a facility involved in the creation of malt beverages that produces fewer than 15,000 barrels per year, typically producing specialty beers and often selling its product only locally or regionally.
Microdistillery means an establishment in which not more than 10,000 barrels of distilled spirits are manufactured on the licensed premises in a calendar year and in which such manufactured distilled spirits may be sold for consumption on the premises and consumption off premises, subject to the limitations prescribed in O.C.G.A. § 3-5-24.2. As used in this definition, the term "barrel" shall be defined as set forth in O.C.G.A. § 3-4-1.
(Ord. of 11-25-2019(1) ; Ord. No. 2022-244 , § 2, 7-11-2022)
Sec. 8-232. - Provisions applicable to micro breweries and microdistilleries only.
The following regulations shall apply to licensed microbrewery and microdistillery establishments:
(1)
No individual shall be permitted to own or operate a microbrewery or microdistillery without first obtaining a proper license from the City of Fairburn, Georgia, and each microbrewery or microdistillery license holder shall comply with all other applicable state and local license requirements.
(2)
a.
A limited exception to the provisions of state law (O.C.G.A. § 3-5-24.1) providing a three-tier system for the distribution and sale of malt beverages shall exist to the extent that the license to manufacture malt beverages shall include the right of a microbrewery to sell up to 3,000 barrels of malt beverages per year produced at the microbrewer's licensed premises to individuals who are on such premises for:
1.
Consumption on the premises; and
2.
Consumption off the premises, provided that such sales for consumption off the premises shall not exceed a maximum of 288 ounces of malt beverages per consumer per day.
b.
A limited exception to the provisions of this chapter providing for the distribution and sale of distilled spirits shall exist to the extent that the license to manufacture distilled spirits in this city shall include the right to sell up to 500 barrels of distilled spirits per year produced at the distiller's licensed premises to individuals who are on such premises for:
1.
Consumption on the premises; and
2.
Consumption off the premises, provided that such sales for consumption off the premises shall not exceed a maximum of 2,250 milliliters of distilled spirits per consumer per day.
(3)
A microbrewery or microdistillery licensee, or employee thereof, shall be permitted a limited exception under this article to taste draft beer, wine and distilled spirits at the licensed premises for quality control or educational purposes only. At no time however, shall a microbrewery or microdistillery employee become intoxicated at the licensed premises during such employees working hours.
(4)
All applicable manufacturing operations by a microbrewery or microdistillery shall be conducted within an enclosed building.
(5)
The state regulations relating to the manufacture, sale, and distribution of beer and distilled spirits, as revised from time to time, promulgated by the state revenue department, are hereby incorporated into and made a part of this article as if fully set out in this section.
(6)
The City Code regulations relating to the manufacture, sale, and distribution of beer and distilled spirits, as revised from time to time, promulgated by the City of Fairburn, are hereby incorporated into and made a part of this article as if fully set out in this section.
(7)
No sales, pouring, or tasting of beer, malt beverages or distilled spirits by a microbrewery or microdistillery shall be permitted between the hours of 12:00 a.m. and 8:00 a.m. any day of the week. No sales, pouring, or tasting of beer, malt beverages or distilled spirits by a microbrewery or microdistillery shall be permitted on Sundays before 12:30 p.m. and after 11:30 p.m., or on any other days or times prohibited by state law. Promotional or educational tours of a microbrewery or microdistillery facility shall also only be permitted within these allowed timeframes.
(8)
All malt beverages, beer and distilled spirits provided at the microbrewery or microdistillery shall be served by the licensee or an employee of licensee and shall be malt beverages, beer or distilled spirits brewed on-site by said microbrewery or microdistillery,
(9)
No person may bring alcoholic beverages obtained off the premises of the licensed microbrewery or microdistillery to said microbrewery or microdistillery under any circumstances.
(10)
All alcoholic beverages sold by the drink for consumption on the premises shall be consumed only on the licensed premises. It shall be unlawful for any person to remove from the licensed premises any alcoholic beverages sold for consumption on the premises. Each licensee shall be responsible for ensuring that no person so removes any alcoholic beverages from the premises in any type of container.
(11)
An individual applying for a microbrewery or microdistillery license shall indicate on their application whether he or she intends to open and operate a brewpub.
(12)
All licensed premises shall be kept clean and in proper sanitary condition, and shall not allow improper conduct or nudity on the licensed premises, in compliance with section 8-114, maintenance of premises; improper conduct; and nudity. All of the regulations in section 8-114 are wholly incorporated herein by this reference.
(Ord. of 11-25-2019(1) ; Ord. No. 2022-244 , § 3, 7-11-2022)
Editor's note— Ord. No. 2022-244 , § 3, adopted July 11, 2022, amended the title of § 8-232 to read as herein set out. The former § 8-232 title pertained to provisions applicable to microbreweries only.
Sec. 8-232.1. - Provisions applicable to microdistilleries only.
(a)
A distiller shall be permitted to manufacture distilled spirits with the right to sell the product of the distiller for resale within and outside of the limits of the State of Georgia.
(b)
Applications for a microdistillery license shall include such information, and shall follow the requirements of, the application for all alcoholic beverages licenses as are contained within article I of the alcoholic beverages code. Microdistilleries shall be subject to the same regulation and requirements as for a class B spirituous liquor license, including, but not limited to, hours of operation and distance requirements, as established in article III of chapter 30-5. Microdistilleries may offer such other sales as may be allowed by the laws of the State of Georgia.
(c)
A licensed distiller may sell up to 500 barrels of distilled spirits per year produced at the distiller's licensed premises to individuals who are present on such premises for consumption on the premises.
(d)
A licensed distiller shall submit excise taxes to the city on a monthly basis in accordance with O.C.G.A. § 3-4-24.2 and section 8-40 of this chapter.
(e)
A licensed distiller shall abide by all federal, state, and local laws, regulations, or rules. The failure to comport with such laws, regulations or rules may serve as a basis for revocation by the city.
(Ord. No. 2022-244 , § 4, 7-11-2022)
Sec. 8-233. - Provisions applicable to brewpubs only.
(a)
In compliance with O.C.G.A. § 3-5-36, a limited exception to the provisions of O.C.G.A. § 3-5-29 through § 3-5-32 providing a three-tier system for the distribution and sale of malt beverages shall exist for owners and operations of brewpubs, subject to the following terms and conditions:
(1)
No individual shall be permitted to own or operate a brewpub without first obtaining a proper license from the state and City of Fairburn, Georgia, and each brewpub license holder shall comply with all applicable state and local license requirements.
(2)
A brewpub license authorizes the holder of such license to:
a.
Manufacture on the licensed premises not more than 10,000 barrels of malt beverages in a calendar year solely for retail sale; notwithstanding this provision, brewpub may sell up to a maximum of 5,000 barrels annually of such malt beverages to licensed wholesale dealers. Under no circumstances shall such malt beverages be sold by a brewpub licensee to any person holding a retail consumption dealer's license or a retailer's license for the purpose of resale;
b.
Operate an eating establishment that shall be the sole retail outlet for such malt beverages;
c.
Operate an eating establishment that may offer for sale for consumption on the premises any other alcoholic beverages produced by other manufacturers which are authorized for retail sale under this title, including wine, distilled spirits, and malt beverages, provided that such alcoholic beverages are purchased from a licensed wholesaler; and, provided, further, that in addition to draft beer manufactured on the premises, each brewpub licensee shall offer for sale commercially available canned or bottled malt beverages from licensed wholesalers; and
(b)
Should a microbrewery licensee operating a brewpub offer for sale other alcoholic beverages produced by other manufacturers on the premises of the brewpub, the licensee shall also be required to obtain an on-premises consumption license.
(c)
Possession of a brewpub license shall not prevent the holder of such license from obtaining a retail consumption dealer's license or a retailer's license for the same premises, if permitted by state law and local regulations.
(d)
The holder of microbrewery licensee who is operating a brewpub shall not be entitled by virtue of said microbrewery license to sell alcoholic beverages by the package for consumption off the premises.
(e)
A microbrewery licensee operating a brewpub shall pay all state and local license fees and excise taxes applicable to individuals licensed as manufacturers, retailers and, where applicable, wholesale dealers.
(f)
Brewpubs may not pour or serve malt beverages between the hours of 12:00 a.m. and 8:00 a.m. any day of the week. In addition, no sale or pouring of malt beverages or wine shall be permitted on Sundays before 12:30 p.m. and after 11:30 p.m., or on any other days or times prohibited by state law. Where in conflict with the operating hours permitted for other establishments offering on-premises consumption, the operating hours of this subsection shall control for brewpubs.
(Ord. of 11-25-2019(1) )
Sec. 8-234. - Prohibited locations.
Prohibited locations. Microbreweries and brewpubs license shall be prohibited in the certain areas of the city specified in section 8-48, location restrictions. The regulations of section 8-48 are wholly incorporated and adopted herein.
(Ord. of 11-25-2019(1) )
