ARTICLE I. - IN GENERAL

Sec. 8-1. - Purpose and authority.
(a)
This chapter has been enacted in furtherance of the police powers of the city and in accordance with a plan designed for the purposes, among others, of promoting the health and general welfare of the community, to establish reasonable standards for the regulation and control of the licensing and sales of alcoholic beverages, to protect and preserve schools and churches, to give effect to existing land use and to preserve certain residential areas, with reasonable considerations, among others, to the character of the areas and their peculiar suitability for particular uses, the congestion in the roads and streets, and with a general view of promoting desirable living conditions and sustaining stability of neighborhood and property values, and to protect against the evils of concentration of ownership or control of the retail outlets for alcoholic beverages or to prevent undesirable persons from controlling the retail alcoholic beverage industry.
(b)
The provisions of this chapter are ordained under and by virtue of the authority granted by the laws of the Georgia Alcoholic Beverage Code, O.C.G.A. § 3-1-1 et seq. O.C.G.A. § 3-4-110 grants the city the full power to adopt all reasonable rules and regulations governing the conduct of any such licensee, including, but not limited to, the regulation of hours of business, types of employees, and other matters which may fall within the police powers of the city. O.C.G.A. §§ 3-5-40 and 3-5-42 authorize municipal licenses for the business of manufacturing, distributing and selling malt beverages at wholesale and retail. O.C.G.A. § 3-6-40 authorizes municipal licenses for the manufacturing, distributing and selling of wine at wholesale and retail.
(c)
The provisions of this chapter regulating the sale of alcoholic beverages and nudity on the premises are ordained by virtue of the authority granted by the constitution and laws of the United States and the state, as most recently delineated by the state supreme court in its decisions of Gravely vs. Bacon and S.J.T., Inc. vs. Richmond County in order to avoid the effects of criminal interests and negative effects on the community by the decreased safety and welfare of the citizens of the city, the hindering of commercial growth in the city, and the deterioration of the city's economic base.
(Ord. No. 2003-13, § I(3-1), 9-9-2003)
Sec. 8-2. - Definitions.
The following words, terms and phrases, when used in this chapter, shall have the meanings ascribed to them in this section, except where the context clearly indicates a different meaning:
Alcohol means ethyl alcohol, hydrated oxide of ethyl, or spirits of wine, from whatever source or by whatever process produced.
Alcoholic beverage means all alcohol, distilled spirits, beer, spirituous liquors, malt beverages, wine, or fortified wine.
Brown bag establishment means any restaurant, private club or other establishment providing food or entertainment in the normal course of business, and in which the owners or their agents knowingly allow patrons to bring in and consume the patrons' own alcoholic beverages.
Brown bagging means the act of patrons entering any restaurant, private club, or other establishment providing food or entertainment in the normal course of business and bringing in and consuming the patrons' own alcoholic beverage.
Close corporation means a domestic corporation that does not:
(1)
Have more than five stockholders;
(2)
Have a corporation as a shareholder; or
(3)
Have more than one class of stock.
Distilled spirits or spirituous liquors means any alcoholic beverage obtained by distillation or containing more than 21 percent alcohol by volume, including, but not limited to, all fortified wines, whiskey, rum, gin, brandy, vodka, tequila and all other alcoholic beverages of a similar nature and with similar alcoholic content.
Family includes any person related to the holder of a license within the first degree of consanguinity or affinity as computed according to civil law.
Fortified wine means any alcoholic beverage containing more than 21 percent alcohol by volume made from fruits, berries or grapes either by natural fermentation or by natural fermentation with brandy added. The term "fortified wine" includes, but is not limited to, brandy.
Growler means a glass bottle not to exceed 64 ounces that is filled by a licensee or employee of the licensed establishment with beer from a keg in compliance with the terms and conditions set forth in section 8-20.
Hotel means every building or other structure kept, used, maintained, advertised and held out to the public to be a place where food is actually served and consumed and sleeping accommodations are offered for adequate pay to travelers and guests, whether transient, permanent or residential. To meet the definition of "hotel" under this chapter, the facility must have 50 or more rooms used for sleeping accommodations of such guests and one or more public dining rooms, with an adequate and sanitary kitchen and a seating capacity of at least 25 persons, where meals are regularly served to such guests. As used in this definition, the term "seating" shall mean that no more than 25 percent of such seating shall be at a common table or counter area or shall be other than individual tables or booths designed for seating at least two individuals. All sleeping accommodations and dining rooms must be conducted in the same building or in separate buildings or structures used in connection therewith that are on the same premises and are a part of the hotel operation. Motels meeting the qualifications set out herein for hotels shall be classified in the same category as hotels. Hotels shall have the privilege of granting franchises for the operation of a restaurant in their premises, and the holder of such franchise shall be eligible for a license under the "hotel" classification. At least 55 percent of the receipts of the dining room shall come from the sale of food. To be included in the tabulation of receipts for the purpose of this calculation, are all receipts of all persons laboring in the dining room, including the services of all independent contractors, performers, servers, entertainers, or other non-employee personnel not to include, however, persons who are called in the dining room from other licensed businesses to perform services, repairs or construction on equipment or building premises. For purposes of this section, the calculations of receipts for alcoholic beverages shall be made pursuant to the scheduling of pricing and the regulations contained therein as required by section 8-112. Receipts for room rentals shall not be included in the calculations.
Individual means a natural person not a corporation or a partnership.
Interest in license. An individual is deemed to have an interest in a license if:
(1)
He is the owner of the license.
(2)
He is the co-owner of the license.
(3)
He is a partner in any partnership that owns an interest in a license.
(4)
He is a stockholder holding more than five percent of the stock in any corporation and/or is a stockholder in any corporation that has fewer than 25 stockholders which owns an interest in a license.
(5)
He shares in any income or corpus of any trust fund having any interest in a license to sell at retail.
License representative means that if a license representative is required, the license representative shall be a resident of the state and a manager of the business who is on the premises on a regular basis.
Licensee. The licensee for all businesses shall be at least 21 years of age and:
(1)
If the business is to be operated by an individual, the licensee shall be that individual.
(2)
If the business is to be operated by a partnership, the licensee shall be an individual who is a partner; or, if all partners are non-individuals, then the licensee shall be an individual who is an officer of any corporation which is a partner, or, an individual who is an officer, manager or agent of any unincorporated entity which is a partner.
(3)
If the business is to be operated by a corporation, the licensee shall be an officer of the corporation.
(4)
If the licensee is a manager of the business who is on the premises on a regular basis, the licensee may also be the license representative of the business. If not, a license representative shall be named in accordance with this chapter.
Lounge/bar means a separate room connected with, a part of, and adjacent to, a restaurant or a room located in a hotel, and which serves no food.
Malt beverage means any alcoholic beverage obtained by the fermentation of any infusion or decoction of barley, malt, hops, or any other similar product, or any combination of such products in water, containing not more than 14 percent alcohol by volume, and including, but not limited to, ale, porter, brown, stout, lager beer, malt liquor, small beer and strong beer. The term "malt beverage" does not include sake, known as Japanese rice wine.
Meal, regular, means a meal which is prepared on the premises according to the order of the patron or customer given to a waiter at the table, booth or counter area where the customer is seated and served by the waiter at said table, booth or counter area. The term "meal" or "regular meal" does not include:
(1)
Food served in a specialty shop;
(2)
Food served over the counter;
(3)
Short order meals such as sandwiches, hot dogs or hamburgers; or
(4)
Prepackaged, individual meals.
Minor means any person under the age of 21 years.
Package means a bottle, can, keg, barrel, growler, or other original consumer container.
Person means any individual, firm, partnership, cooperative, nonprofit membership corporation, joint venture, association, company, corporation, agency, syndicate, estate, trust, business trust, receiver, fiduciary, or other group or combination acting as a unit.
Premises/outlet means a definite enclosed area or other outside area with controlled ingress and egress wherein spirituous liquors, alcoholic beverages, malt beverages, or wine be sold and consumed, or sold therein by the package to be consumed elsewhere.
Private club means a corporation or association organized and existing under the laws of the state, actively in operation within the city prior to the application for a license hereunder, having at least 50 members regularly paying dues, for at least six years prior to application for license, organized and operated exclusively for pleasure, recreation and other nonprofitable purpose, no part of the net earnings of which inures to the benefit of any shareholder or member, and owning, hiring or leasing a building or space therein for the reasonable use of its members with suitable sanitary kitchen and dining room seating of at least 25 persons and equipment and maintaining and using a sufficient number of servants and employees for cooking, preparing and serving meals for its members and guests; provided that no member or officer, agent or employee of the club is paid, or directly or indirectly receives, in the form of salary or other compensation, any profits from the sale of distilled spirits, wines, champagnes or malt beverages beyond the amount of such salary as may be fixed by its members at an annual meeting, or by its governing body, out of the general revenue of the club. As used in this section, the term "seating" shall mean that no more than 25 percent of such seating shall be at a common table or counter area or shall be other than individual tables or booths designed for seating of at least two individuals. For the purpose of this definition, tips that are added to the bills under club regulations shall not be considered as profits hereunder. In addition, at least 55 percent of the receipts from the operation of the kitchen and dining room and serving of meals shall come from the sale of food. To be included in the tabulation of receipts for the purpose of this calculation, are all receipts of all persons laboring on the premises, including the services of all independent contractors, performers, servers, entertainers, or other non-employee personnel not to include, however, persons who are called to the premises from other licensed businesses to perform services, repairs or construction on equipment or building premises. For purposes of this section, the calculations of receipts for alcoholic beverages shall be made pursuant to the scheduling of pricing and the regulations contained therein. A private club organized or operated primarily for the selling or serving of alcoholic beverages by the drink shall not be licensed under this chapter, nor permitted to sell or serve such beverages at all. All distance requirements as set forth in this chapter shall apply.
Private residence means a house, dwelling or structure wherein not less than one nor more than two families reside. The term "private residence" shall not include a mobile home court, an apartment house having facilities for housing more than two families, nor a boardinghouse or roominghouse where there are five or more boarders or roomers. Any building occupied as a residence located within an area zoned for business shall not be construed as a private residence.
Restaurant means any public place kept, used, maintained, advertised and held out to the public as a place where meals are actually and regularly served, but not including short order or quick or fast food shops, such place being provided with adequate and sanitary kitchen and dining room seating of at least 25 persons, having employed therein a sufficient number and kind of employees to prepare, cook and serve suitable food for its guests. Meals shall be served at least six days a week, with the exception of weeks including holidays, vacations and periods of renovation, and the serving of such meals shall be the principal business conducted, with the serving of distilled spirits, malt beverages and wines to be consumed on the premises as only incidental thereto. As used in this section, the term "seating" shall mean that no more than 25 percent of such seating shall be at a common table or counter area or shall be other than individual tables or booths designed for seating of at least two individuals. As used in this section, the term "principal business" shall mean that at least 55 percent of the receipts of such business shall come from the sale of food. To be included in the tabulation of receipts, for the purpose of this calculation, are all receipts of all persons laboring on the premises, including the services of all independent contractors, performers, servers, entertainers, or other non-employee personnel not to include, however, persons who are called to the premises from other licensed businesses to perform services, repairs or construction on equipment or building premises. For purposes of this definition, the calculations of receipts for alcoholic beverages shall be made pursuant to the scheduling of pricing and the regulations contained therein.
Retail consumption dealer means any person who sells alcoholic beverages for consumption on the premises at retail.
Retail package dealer means any person who sells alcoholic beverages in unbroken packages for consumption off the premises at retail. Such sales must be in connection with sales of other products.
Sales by the drink means any person who sells alcoholic beverages for consumption on the premises at retail only to consumers and not for resale.
Wholesaler or wholesale dealer means any person who sells alcoholic beverages to other wholesale dealers, to retail package dealers, or to retail consumption dealers.
Wine means any alcoholic beverage containing not more than 21 percent alcohol by volume made from fruits, barriers, grapes, or other natural products by natural fermentation. The term "wine" includes, but is not limited to, all sparkling wines, champagnes, combinations of such beverages, vermouths, sake, natural wines, rectified wines, and like products. The term "wine" does not include cooking wine mixed with salt or other ingredients so as to render it unfit for human consumption as a beverage.
(Ord. No. 2003-13, § I(3-2), 9-9-2003; Ord. No. 2012-09, §§ 1, 2, 8-27-2012)
State Law reference— Similar provision, O.C.G.A. § 3-1-2.
Sec. 8-3. - Sale or possession without payment of state tax or fee.
It shall be unlawful for any person to sell at retail or otherwise within the city, possess, conceal, store or convey any wine, malt beverage, distilled spirits or other alcoholic beverages on which any tax or license fee imposed by the laws of the state or this chapter have not been paid, and any such beverages as described in this section that are found without a state tax stamp shall be seized as contraband and immediately delivered to the state revenue commissioner as provided by law. Any violation of this section shall be punished as provided for in section 1-15.
(Ord. No. 2003-13, § I(3-3), 9-9-2003)
State Law reference— Similar provision, O.C.G.A. § 3-3-8.
Sec. 8-4. - Purchase, possession, etc., by underage persons.
(a)
Except as otherwise authorized by law:
(1)
No person knowingly, directly or through another person shall furnish, cause to be furnished, or permit any person in such person's employ to furnish any alcoholic beverage to any person under 21 years of age.
(2)
No person shall fail to check the identification of any other person which failure results in the furnishing of alcoholic beverages to any person under 21 years of age.
(3)
No person under 21 years of age shall purchase or knowingly possess any alcoholic beverages.
(4)
No person under 21 years of age shall misrepresent such person's age in any manner whatever for the purpose of obtaining illegally any alcoholic beverage.
(5)
No person knowingly or intentionally shall act as an agent to purchase or acquire any alcoholic beverage for or on behalf of a person under 21 years of age.
(6)
No person under 21 years of age shall misrepresent his identity to use any false identification for the purpose of purchasing or obtaining any alcoholic beverage.
(b)
The prohibitions contained in subsection (a)(1), (2) and (4) of this section shall not apply with respect to the sale, purchase or possession of alcoholic beverages for consumption:
(1)
For medical purposes pursuant to a prescription of a physician duly authorized to practice medicine in the state;
(2)
At a religious ceremony; or
(3)
In the home with parental consent, provided that such person is over 18 years of age.
(c)
The prohibition contained in subsection (a)(1) of this section shall not apply with respect to sale of alcoholic beverages by a person when such person has been furnished with proper identification showing that the person to whom the alcoholic beverage is sold is 21 years of age or older. For purposes of this subsection, the term "proper identification" means any document issued by a governmental agency containing a description of the person, such person's photograph, or both, and giving such person's date of birth and includes, without being limited to, a passport, military identification card, driver's license, or an identification card authorized under O.C.G.A. §§ 40-5-100 through 40-5-104. The term "proper identification" shall not include a birth certificate.
(d)
If such conduct is not otherwise prohibited pursuant to O.C.G.A. § 3-3-24, nothing contained in this section shall be construed to prohibit any person under 21 years of age from:
(1)
Dispensing, serving, selling, or handling alcoholic beverages as a part of employment in any licensed establishment;
(2)
Being employed in any establishment in which alcoholic beverages are distilled or manufactured; or
(3)
Taking orders for and having possession of alcoholic beverages as a part of employment in a licensed establishment.
(e)
Notwithstanding, no person shall allow or require a person under 18 years of age nor shall a person under 18 years of age take an order for alcoholic beverages for on-premises consumption or accept alcoholic beverages for check-out for off-premises consumption.
(Ord. No. 2003-13, § I(3-4), 9-9-2003)
Sec. 8-5. - Consumption prohibited; open containers.
(a)
The following words, terms and phrases, when used in this section, shall have the meanings ascribed to them in this subsection, except where the context clearly indicates a different meaning:
Open container means any container containing alcoholic beverages, which is immediately capable of being consumed from or the seal of which has been broken.
(b)
No person shall possess an open container of any alcoholic beverage while operating a motor vehicle in the city or while occupying a motor vehicle as a passenger. An open container shall be considered to be in the possession of the operator of a vehicle if the container is not in the possession of a passenger. This provision shall not apply if the alcoholic beverage is located in a locked glove compartment, locked trunk, or other locked non-passenger area of the vehicle. This provision is intended to prohibit the consumption of alcoholic beverages by the operator and passengers in motor vehicles.
(c)
No person shall possess an open container of an alcoholic beverage while walking, standing or otherwise occupying any public street, road, or highway, sidewalk adjacent thereto, public park, or public parking lot. Consumption of alcoholic beverages in or on other publicly owned properties of the city is prohibited.
(d)
No person shall possess an open container of an alcoholic beverage on the premises of any retail package licensee, including parking lots located adjacent thereto.
(e)
No person shall enter or leave the premises of an establishment licensed to sell or dispense alcoholic beverages for consumption on the premises with an open container of any alcoholic beverage except that any restaurant which is licensed to sell alcoholic beverages for consumption on the premises may permit a patron to remove one unsealed bottle of wine per patron for consumption off premises, if the patron has purchased a meal and consumed a portion of the bottle of wine which has been purchased on the premises with such meal on the restaurant's premises. A partially consumed bottle of wine that is to be removed from the premises must be securely resealed by the licensee or its employees before removal from the premises. The partially consumed bottle [of] wine shall be placed in a bag or other contained that is secured in such a manner that it is visibly apparent if the container has been subsequently opened or tampered with, and a dated receipt for the bottle of wine and meal shall be provided by the licensee and attached to the container. If transported in a motor vehicle, the container with the resealed bottle of wine shall be placed in a locked glove compartment, a locked trunk, or the area behind the last upright seat of a motor vehicle that is not equipped with a trunk.
(Ord. No. 2003-13, § I(3-5), 9-9-2003; Ord. No. 2009-12, § II, 12-14-2009)
Sec. 8-6. - Public drunkenness.
It shall be unlawful for any person in the city to be and appear in an intoxicated condition in any public place or within the curtilage of any private residence not his own other than by invitation of the owner or lawful occupant, when such condition of intoxication is made manifest by boisterousness, or by indecent condition or act, or by vulgar, profane, loud or unbecoming language.
(Ord. No. 2003-13, § I(3-6), 9-9-2003)
State Law reference— Similar provision, O.C.G.A. § 16-11-41.
Sec. 8-7. - Restricted quantities.
It shall be unlawful for any person to be found in possession or control of more than one standard case of 1.75 liter, one liter or 750 milliliter size containers of distilled spirits but not more than eight individual containers of distilled spirits of a size of 200 milliliters or four individual containers of distilled spirits of a size of 500 milliliters. Any distilled spirits found in the possession of any person shall have been purchased by the person for use and consumption from a lawful and authorized retailer and properly stamped. This prohibition shall not apply to possession of distilled spirits by a properly licensed wholesaler or its employees making deliveries to a properly licensed premises.
(Ord. No. 2003-13, § I(3-7), 9-9-2003)
Sec. 8-8. - Sale by the drink only for consumption on the premises.
No person shall be allowed to sell, distribute, or give away alcoholic beverages by the drink for consumption off the licensed premises; except for the exceptions permitted by secion 8-19—Exceptions.
(Ord. No. 2003-13, § I(3-8), 9-9-2003; Ord. No. 2016-01, § 1(Exh. A), 2-22-2016)
Sec. 8-9. - Establishments to be kept in orderly manner.
It shall be the duty of all persons or employees of persons granted a license under this chapter to keep the premises clear at all times of all persons who are rowdy and noisy, who are intoxicated, or who are becoming intoxicated, who fail to keep the peace, or who do anything tending to breach peace and cause a public disturbance.
(Ord. No. 2003-13, § I(3-9), 9-9-2003)
Sec. 8-10. - Times for sales.
It shall be unlawful for any business establishments serving food, licensed to sell malt beverages, wine or distilled spirits by the drink for consumption on the premises only pursuant to this chapter to sell, dispense or deliver alcoholic beverages for consumption on the premises except from 7:00 a.m. through 11:59 p.m., Monday through Saturday, and from 12:30 p.m. Sunday afternoon through 11:59 p.m. Sunday night, and from 12:00 a.m. through 1:59 a.m. Monday through Sunday.
(Ord. No. 2003-13, § I(3-10), 9-9-2003; Ord. No. 2009-12, § I, 12-14-09; Ord. No. 2010-02, § 1, 3-8-2010; Ord. No. 2013-14, § 1, 8-12-13)
Sec. 8-11. - Signs to be posted.
(a)
Each outlet for the retail sale of packaged distilled spirits, malt beverages and/or wines shall post in a conspicuous place within the outlet a sign with letters at least two inches high reading: "Sale of alcoholic beverages to persons under 21 years of age is prohibited."
(b)
Each outlet for the retail sale of alcoholic beverages by the drink for consumption only on the premises shall post in a conspicuous place within the outlet a sign with letters at least two inches high reading: "Sale of alcoholic beverages to persons under 21 years of age is prohibited."
(Ord. No. 2003-13, § I(3-11), 9-9-2003)
Sec. 8-12. - Possession to give away in order to induce trade.
It shall be unlawful for any person to keep on hand for the purpose of giving the same away to induce trade, any fermented beverages made in whole or in part from malt, or any similar fermented beverages, wine or distilled spirits that contain more than one-half of one percent of alcohol by volume.
(Ord. No. 2003-13, § I(3-12), 9-9-2003)
Sec. 8-13. - Deliveries prohibited off premises.
(a)
It shall be unlawful for any wholesaler or distributor to make deliveries of alcoholic beverages except to a location licensed for the retail sale of such beverages.
(b)
It shall be unlawful for any retail package dealer or person licensed to sell alcoholic beverages by the drink for consumption on the premises only to make deliveries of any malt beverages and/or wine or distilled spirits to any location off the licensed premises.
(c)
The prohibition set forth in subsection (b) of this section shall not apply to hotel in-room service that shall be regulated as set forth in section 8-113.
(Ord. No. 2003-13, § I(3-13), 9-9-2003)
Sec. 8-14. - Sales on licensed premises.
Only those individuals who are agents, clerks, or employees of the licensee shall handle, sell or serve alcoholic beverages on a licensed premises.
(Ord. No. 2003-13, § I(3-14), 9-9-2003)
Sec. 8-15. - Sale to intoxicated person prohibited.
Alcoholic beverage licensees and their agents, clerks and employees are prohibited from selling, bartering, exchanging, giving, providing, or furnishing any alcoholic beverage to any person who is in a noticeable state of intoxication.
(Ord. No. 2003-13, § I(3-15), 9-9-2003)
State Law reference— Similar provision, O.C.G.A. § 3-3-22.
Sec. 8-16. - Alcoholic beverage sales for cash only.
All sales of alcoholic beverages shall be for cash upon sale. Sales on credit are specifically prohibited except that the use of a credit card for the purchase of distilled spirits, malt beverages or wine shall not be prohibited provided such retail credit card represents an unqualified obligation to pay without recourse on the part of the person, institution or agency issuing such card. The running of a "tab" at a licensed consumption premises shall not be prohibited, provided that the consumer pays all charges prior to departing the premises.
(Ord. No. 2003-13, § I(3-16), 9-9-2003)
Sec. 8-17. - City personnel prohibited from interest in license.
No elected or appointed official or employee of the city may hold an interest in a license issued under this chapter.
(Ord. No. 2003-13, § I(3-17), 9-9-2003)
Sec. 8-18. - Sale of alcoholic beverage without city license.
It shall be unlawful for any person to manufacture for sale or possess for the purpose of sale any alcoholic beverage where such person does not have a license from the city to sell or possess for sale such alcoholic beverage.
(Ord. No. 2003-13, § I(3-18), 9-9-2003)
Sec. 8-19. - Exceptions.
(a)
The requirements of this chapter shall not apply to an event held for business development purposes, governmental purposes or charitable purposes at which alcoholic beverages are served by a person or organization not otherwise required to be licensed pursuant to this chapter to members and invited guests of such persons or organization holding the event at a permitted location or at a location not otherwise required to be permitted pursuant to this chapter, provided that the person or organization purchased and served the alcoholic beverages.
(b)
The requirements of this chapter shall not apply to an event held at a private residence at which alcoholic beverages are purchased and served by a person not otherwise required to be licensed pursuant to this chapter to invited guests of such person, provided that the person holding the event purchases the alcoholic beverages.
(c)
The requirements of this chapter shall not apply to an event held for business development purposes at which malt beverages or wine are served, without charge, for paying guests of a hotel, as defined herein, not otherwise required to be licensed pursuant to this chapter.
(d)
The requirements of this chapter shall not apply to a person holding a private function at which alcoholic beverages are served, but not sold, by a person not otherwise required to be licensed pursuant to this chapter to invited guests of such person holding the private function at a permitted location, pursuant to a qualifying location permit, in accordance with sections 8-21 and 8-22 herein.
(Ord. No. 2009-1, § I, 1-12-2009; Ord. No. 2016-01, § 1(Exh. A), 2-22-2016)
Sec. 8-20. - Growlers.
The sale of growlers in compliance with this chapter is authorized for licensed establishments defined in section 8-2, such as retail package dealers, who are authorized to sell alcoholic beverages, excluding distilled spirits, by the package. The filling of growlers by means of a tapped keg shall not constitute the breaking of a package as contemplated by O.C.G.A. § 3-3-26 or other provisions of this chapter. The term "growler" means a glass bottle not to exceed 64 ounces that is filled by a licensee or employee of the licensed establishment with beer from a keg. Growlers may only be filled from kegs procured by the licensee from a duly licensed wholesaler. Only professionally sanitized and sealed growlers may be filled and made available for retail sale. Each growler must be securely sealed and removed from the premises in its original sealed condition. Consumption on the premises is strictly prohibited. However, samples of tap beers may be made available, but shall not exceed one ounce nor shall any one individual be offered more than three samples within a 24-hour period.
(Ord. No. 2012-09, § 3, 8-27-2012)
Sec. 8-21. - Permitted location for private functions at which alcoholic beverages are served; sales prohibited.
(a)
No alcoholic beverages shall be sold, dispensed, distributed, poured or served at any location, premises, or building in the city except as set out in this chapter or otherwise provided for under this chapter;
(b)
The owner or lessee of a location at which alcoholic beverages are to be furnished and served at a "private function" by a person at a location not otherwise required to be licensed pursuant to this chapter shall obtain a "qualifying location permit" designating such location as a "permitted location." Such qualifying location permit shall be good for the calendar year in which it is issued and may be renewed annually. The cost of the qualifying location permit shall be $300.00. In order for a location to become a "permitted location," the owner or lessee shall apply to the city for a qualifying location permit and shall meet the requirements of sections 8-41(a),(b),(d), (e) if applicable, (f) and (g) (Application; contents) and 8-42(2)-(6) (Supporting documents to be filed with application) herein. Such application requirements include a $250.00 nonrefundable investigation fee.
(c)
To qualify as a "permitted location," the location, premises or building shall meet all requirements of the building inspector, the fire marshal, the city engineer, and the planning and zoning administrator for an on-premises pouring outlet. Further, no permit shall be issued unless the location of the premises meets the current applicable provisions of the zoning ordinance of the city, as set forth in chapter 80 and as amended, and shall possess a qualifying location permit pursuant to this section.
(d)
All applications shall be decided within 15 business days of receipt of the complete application.
(e)
If the application meets all of the requirements of this chapter, the city administrator, or his designee, shall issue the qualifying location permit. If the city administrator, or his designee, finds that the application does not meet the requirements of this chapter, the qualifying location permit shall be denied and the reasons for such denial shall be stated in writing. The applicant shall appeal to the mayor and city council within five business days of the date of the denial. Upon such appeal, the city administrator will schedule an appeal hearing before mayor and city council within thirty (30) days from the date of the appeal notice. The hearing will be held in accordance with section 8-152 of this chapter. Mayor and city councils' final decision shall be in writing and issued within three business days of the hearing to the applicant. Appeals of the final decision shall be made in accordance with section 8-155 of this chapter.
(f)
Any qualifying location permit which has been issued or which may hereafter be issued by the city may be suspended or revoked for "due cause," as defined in section 8-149 of this chapter. Such permit may be suspended or revoked by utilizing the procedures as set forth in Article V, Suspension and Revocation, sections 8-149 through section 8-155.
(g)
The "qualifying location permit" shall be maintained and posted at the site of the permitted location during the hours alcoholic beverages are served.
(h)
It shall be unlawful for any person to furnish and serve alcohol beverages at a private function at a permitted location unless food is also served at the private function.
(i)
City owned property, buildings or facilities are prohibited from being a "permitted location" under this section.
(j)
Alcoholic beverages furnished and served at a private function may be consumed only on the premises; and may not be removed from the premises in an open container.
(k)
It shall be unlawful for any alcoholic beverages to be sold at a private function i.e. "no cash bar" sales or "tickets for drinks" or anything similar will be permitted unless the permitted location also holds an on premises consumption license for alcoholic beverages.
(1)
Locations, premises or buildings for which an on-premises consumption license has been issued pursuant to this chapter shall be deemed a "permitted location" under this section without further application; provided, however, that if an on premises consumption licensee provides a separate room, not accessible to the regular public or customers of the licensed establishment, where the alcohol is purchased, furnished and served not by the on premises consumption licensee but by the person holding the private function may qualify as a permitted location for the serving of alcoholic beverages in accordance with this section.
(m)
It shall be unlawful for the owner(s) or lessee(s) of the "permitted location" to furnish or serve alcoholic beverages to persons invited to the "permitted location" for an event open to the general public. The owner(s) or lessee(s) of the permitted location may be the person holding the private function; however, such event may not be open to the general public. The intent and purpose of this section is to allow those persons/businesses otherwise not required to obtain on-premises pouring licenses, to have private functions where alcoholic beverages are served to their guests; not for the owner(s) or lessee(s) of the "permitted location" to be able to purchase and serve alcohol at the permitted location to the general public, which would be in direct violation of this chapter.
(n)
The person holding the private function, and not otherwise required to be licensed pursuant to this chapter, must purchase and furnish the alcoholic beverages.
(o)
The serving without sale of alcoholic beverages at a private function at a permitted location for a private function not otherwise required to be licensed or licensed hereunder for the sale of alcoholic beverages for consumption on the premises shall be only permitted during the times for sales of alcoholic beverages as set forth in section 8-10 of this chapter for premises licensed for consumption on the premises only.
(p)
The qualifying location permit holder shall comply with the requirements of section 8-4 of this chapter regarding underage persons and alcoholic beverages.
(q)
Whenever alcoholic beverages are served at private functions at the permitted location, the qualifying location permit holder shall be responsible for ensuring that the person organizing the private function is in compliance with all of the requirements set forth in this section.
(r)
The "permitted location" permit holder shall be responsible for any violation of this chapter which occurs at the "permitted location" whether by the permit holder's employees or agents, the person organizing the private function, a caterer or the caterer's employees or agents, or a lessee or invitee of the permit holder, their lessee or invitees or any of their employees or agents.
(s)
Any violation of this section shall be punished as provided for in section 1-15.
(Ord. No. 2016-01, § 1(Exh. A), 2-22-2016)
Sec. 8-22. - Definitions pertaining to section 8-21.
The following definitions are applicable to section 8-21 herein:
Permitted location means a building, premises or location for which a permit is required and obtained pursuant to section 8-21.
Premises means the definite closed or partitioned-in locality, whether a room or shop within a building, or a whole building.
Private function means any organized activity for profit or non-profit having as its purpose entertainment, recreation and/or education, such as a party, reception, celebration or assembly which occurs or takes place in a private premises.
(Ord. No. 2016-01, § 1(Exh. A), 2-22-2016)
Secs. 8-23—8-39. - Reserved.
