ARTICLE XI. - NUISANCES

Sec. 62-387. - Care of premises.
(a)
The following words, terms and phrases, when used in this section, shall have the meanings ascribed to them in this subsection, except where the context clearly indicates a different meaning:
Abandoned motor vehicle means any motor vehicle that is in a state of disrepair and incapable of being moved under its own power or any motor vehicle that does not possess a current motor vehicle license plate.
Abandoned or inoperative icebox, refrigerator, stove or other appliance, machinery and equipment means items incapable of or not being used for the purpose for which they were intended.
Glass, building materials, building rubbish or similar items means items not being used on a daily basis, subject to weather and normal building progress, for building work performed on or adjacent to the subject residential property.
Residential property means any property, improved or not, zoned as residential property or when more than 50 percent of the adjacent or surrounding property (determined by lot division and not land area) is used for residential purposes.
(b)
It shall be unlawful for the owner or occupant of a building, structure or property to utilize the premises of such property for the storage of any abandoned, dismantled, wrecked, junked and/or inoperative motor vehicle, icebox, refrigerator, stove or other appliances, machinery and equipment, or the open storage of glass, building materials, building rubbish or similar items, except as permitted by the city zoning ordinance set forth in chapter 80.
(c)
It shall be unlawful for any owner or occupant of any real property to permit such property to become saturated or covered or filled with dead trees, bushes, weeds, grass above six inches in height, garbage, trash, rubbish, tin cans, debris or other hazardous matter and materials.
(d)
It shall be the duty and responsibility of every such owner or occupant to keep the premises of such property clean and to remove from the premises all such items as listed above upon notice from the director of code enforcement, sanitary department or police department. Said notice shall be in writing and shall set forth the hazard to be removed. This notice shall require the owner or occupant to remove the item within five business days or, if the item as set forth in the notice is the first offense during a period of 12 consecutive months, the owner or occupant may file an appeal in writing to the mayor and council of the city within such five-day period. Such an appeal shall stay any enforcement proceedings against the owner or occupant until the mayor and city council have made a determination. If the occupant is not the owner of record according to the city tax returns, a copy of said notice shall be delivered to the owner.
(e)
Should the owner or occupant, after notice or after a determination is made by the mayor and city council, fail to remove the item, it shall be the duty of the sanitary department to cause the same to be removed by the use of city equipment and employees. The total cost to the city for removing said item shall be a special lien against the property and shall be placed upon the tax records of the city. In addition, should the owner or occupant give cause to receive notice for more than one violation of this section during a period of 12 consecutive months, the director of code enforcement, sanitary department or police department shall issue a written citation to the owner or occupant to appear before the city court and there shall be no appeal to the mayor and council of the city. After a written citation is issued, each day the violation continues shall be considered a separate offense for which a separate fine may be assessed; provided, however, the total fine assessed for the citation shall not exceed $1,000.00. The minimum fine for a second or subsequent written citation shall not be less than $150.00, nor more than $1,000.00.
(Code 1966, § 13-14; Ord. No. 89-04, § 1, 8-28-1989; Ord. No. 96-01, § 1, 1-8-1996; Ord. No. 97-06, § 1, 4-28-1997; Ord. No. 2014-19, § 1(Exh. A), 8-11-2014; Ord. No. 2015-20, § 1(Exh. A), 8-10-2015)
Secs. 62-388—62-410. - Reserved.
