PART I - RELATED LAWS
ARTICLE I. - BOARD OF COMMISSIONERS

FOOTNOTE(S):
(1) Editor's note— Printed herein is 1920 Ga. Laws, page 610 which established the board of commissioners of the county. Amendments to the act are indicated by parenthetical history notes following amended provisions. The absence of a history note indicates that the provision remains unchanged from the original act. Obvious misspellings have been corrected without notation. For stylistic purposes, a uniform system of headings, catchlines and citations to state statutes has been used. Additions made for clarity are indicated by brackets.
(1) State Law reference— County body corporate, O.C.G.A. § 36-1-3; organization of county government, O.C.G.A. § 36-5-20 et seq.; matters over which county governing authority has jurisdiction, O.C.G.A. § 36-5-22.1; counties a body corporate and politic, Ga. Const. art. IX, § I, ¶ I; election, term and compensation of county officers, Ga. Const. art. IX, § I, ¶ III; home rule for counties, Ga. Const. art. IX, § II, ¶ I.
Sec. 1. - Established.
From and after January 1, 1921, there shall be established a Board of Commissioners for the County of Seminole.
Sec. 2. - Commissioner districts.
The Board of Commissioners of Seminole County shall consist of five members to be elected as provided in this Act. For the purpose of electing such members, Seminole County shall be divided into five commissioner districts as follows:
County Commissioner District No. 1: Beginning at a point on the Western boundary of Seminole County where County Road 219 intersects with Lake Seminole at a point known as Desser Landing; then travels Easterly along the center of County Road 219 until it intersects with Georgia Highway 39; then travels Northerly along the center of Georgia Highway 39 until it intersects with County Road 25; then travels Easterly along the center of County Road 25 until it intersects with Fish Pond Drain; then travels Northwesterly along the center of Fish Pond Drain until it intersects with Georgia Highway 39; then travels Northerly along the center of Georgia Highway 39 until it intersects with the Southern boundary of the City of Donalsonville; then travels Westerly along the Southern boundary of the City of Donalsonville until it corners North; then travels Northerly along the Western boundary of the City of Donalsonville until it intersects with Seaboard Coastline Railroad; then travels Northwesterly along the center of Seaboard Coastline Railroad until it intersects with the Northern boundary of Seminole County; then travels Westerly along the Northern boundary of Seminole County until it corners South; then travels Southerly along the Western boundary of Seminole County until it intersects with County Road 219 at a point called Desser Landing; and the point of the beginning of County Commissioner District No. 1.
County Commissioner District No. 2: Beginning at a point where Georgia Highway 91 intersects with the Northern boundary of Seminole County; then travels Southerly along the center of Georgia Highway 91 (Tennille Avenue) until it intersects with East Third Street; then travels Easterly along the center of East Third Street until it intersects with Stern Avenue; then travels Southerly along the center of Stern Avenue until Stern Avenue intersects with East Sixth Street; then travels Westerly along the center of East Sixth Street until it intersects with Tallman Avenue; then travels Southerly along the center of Tallman Avenue until it intersects with Porterville Drain; then travels Southerly along the center of Porterville Drain until it intersects with Georgia Highway 39 (Tennille Avenue); then travels Southerly along the center of Georgia Highway 39 (Tennille Avenue) until it intersects with the Southern boundary of Donalsonville; then travels Westerly along the Southern boundary of Donalsonville until it corners North; then travels Northerly along the Western boundary of the City of Donalsonville until it intersects with Seaboard Coastline Railroad; then travels in a Northwesterly direction along the center of Seaboard Coastline Railroad until it intersects with the Northern boundary of Seminole County; then travels Easterly along the Northern boundary of Seminole County until it intersects with Georgia Highway 91 at a point of beginning of County Commissioner District No. 2.
County Commissioner District No. 3: Beginning at a point where Georgia Highway 91 (Tennille Avenue) intersects with the Northern boundary of the City of Donalsonville; then travels Southerly along the center of Georgia Highway 91 (Tennille Avenue) until it intersects with East Third Street; then travels Easterly along the center of East Third Street until it intersects with Stern Avenue; then travels Southerly along the center of Stern Avenue until Stern Avenue intersects with East Sixth Street; then travels Westerly along the center of East Sixth Street until it intersects with Tallman Avenue; then travels Southerly along the center of Tallman Avenue until it intersects with Porterville Drain; then travels Southerly along the center of Porterville Drain until it intersects with Georgia Highway 39 (Tennille Avenue); then travels Southerly along the center of Georgia Highway 39 (Tennille Avenue) until it intersects with the Southern boundary of the City of Donalsonville; then travels Easterly along the Southern boundary of the City of Donalsonville until it corners North; then travels Northerly along the Eastern boundary of the City of Donalsonville until it corners West; then travels Westerly along the Northern boundary of the City of Donalsonville until it intersects with Georgia Highway 91 (Tennille Avenue) at the point of beginning of County Commissioner District No. 3.
County Commissioner District No. 4: Beginning at a point where Georgia Highway 91 intersects with the Northern boundary of Seminole County; then travels Southerly along the center of Georgia Highway 91 until it intersects with the Northern boundary of the City of Donalsonville; then travels Easterly along the Northern boundary of the City of Donalsonville until it corners South; then travels Southerly along the Eastern boundary of the City of Donalsonville until it corners West; then travels Westerly along the Southern boundary of the City of Donalsonville until it intersects with Georgia Highway 39; then travels Southerly along the center of Georgia Highway 39 until it intersects with Fish Pond Drain; then travels Southeasterly along the center of Fish Pond Drain until it intersects with County Road 25; then travels Easterly along the center of County Road 25 until it corners North; then travels Northerly along the center of County Road 25 until it intersects with County Road 47; then travels Northeasterly along the center of County Road 47 until it intersects with County Road 46; then travels Northeasterly along the center of County Road 47 until it intersects with County Road 46; then travels Northeasterly along the enter of County Road 46 until it intersects with County Highway 220; then travels Southerly along the center of County Highway 220 until it intersects with County Road 22; then travels Easterly along the center of County Road 22 until it intersects with County Highway 12; then travels Southerly along the center of County Highway 12 until it intersects with County Road 13; then travels Easterly along the center of County Road 13 until it intersects with the Eastern boundary of Seminole County; then travels Northerly along the Eastern boundary of Seminole County until it corners West; then travels Westerly along the Northern boundary of Seminole County until it intersects with Georgia Highway 91 at the point of the beginning of County Commissioner District No. 4.
County Commissioner District No. 5: Beginning at a point on the Western boundary of Seminole County where County Road 219 intersects with Lake Seminole at a point known as Desser Landing; then travels Easterly along the center of County Road 219 until it intersects with Georgia Highway 39; then travels Northerly along the center of Georgia Highway 39 until it intersects with County Road 25; then travels Easterly along the center of County Road 25 until it corners North; then travels Northerly along the center of County Road 25 until it intersects with County Road 47; then travels Northeasterly along the center of County Road 47 until it intersects with County Road 46; then travels Northeasterly along the center of County Road 46 until it intersects with County Highway 220; then travels Southerly along the center of County Highway 220 until it intersects with County Road 22; then travels Easterly along the center of County Road 22 until it intersects with County Highway 12; then travels Southerly along the center of County Highway 12 until it intersects with County Road 13; then travels Easterly along the center of County Road 13 until it intersects with the Eastern boundary of Seminole County; then travels Southerly along the Eastern boundary of Seminole County until it joins with the Gadsden County Florida line at a point called Jim Woodruff Reservoir where the Apalachicola River begins; then travels Northerly along the Western boundary of Seminole County until it joins the point of beginning of County Commissioner District No. 5.
(1984 Ga. Laws, page 4073)
Sec. 3. - Terms; residency; vacancies.
At the general election to be held in said county in 1922, or, if no general election is held, then at a special election to be called and held for this purpose, there shall be elected five commissioners, one of each to be a bona fide resident of one of each of the commissioner's districts of said county. The commissioner from the first and second districts shall hold office for the term of two years after January 1923, and the commissioners elected from the third, fourth and fifth districts shall hold office for the term of four years from January 1, 1923. The successors of said elected commissioners, and all future commissioners, shall hold office for the term of four years. No persons shall be elected commissioners except those who are freeholders, qualified voters, and residents of said county. One of the five members of the said board of commissioners hereby created shall be a resident of each of said districts of said county, and each commissioner shall be elected only by the qualified voters of the district of his residence, and only one commissioner shall be elected from each district, and only one commissioner shall reside in any one district; and if a commissioner shall move out of his district, his office shall become vacant and shall be filled in the same manner provided for the filling of vacancies occurring on account of death or resignation. Before entering upon their duties, all commissioners of said county shall take an oath to faithfully perform the duties of commissioners under this Act and the Constitution and laws of Georgia which oath shall be recorded in the office of the probate court of the county, and said commissioners shall then be duly commissioned by the Governor of the State. Any vacancy on said board occurring by death, resignation or disqualification shall be filled by appointment by the remaining members of the board; such appointee shall qualify and hold office for the remainder of the time of the one whom he shall succeed. The members of said board shall, upon organization, el ect from their number a chairman, who shall preside and act as such during the remainder of his term of office.
(1933 Ga. Laws, page 656; 1978 Ga. Laws, page 3076)
Sec. 3A. - Compensation.
Each member of the Board of Commissioners of Seminole County shall receive as compensation for his services the sum of $1,200.00 per annum, to be paid in equal monthly installments from the funds of Seminole County.
(1978 Ga. Laws, page 3076)
Sec. 4. - Exemptions.
Said Commissioners shall be exempt from military, road or jury duty.
Sec. 5. - Clerk.
Said Commissioners shall employ a clerk upon such compensation as they may see fit to pay him and for such term of office as they may decide upon. It shall be the duty of said clerk to keep the minutes and records of all proceedings of said Commissioners, and to discharge such other and further duties as the Commissioners may prescribe. Said clerk shall take a like oath to that prescribed for the Commissioners, which shall be filed with the probate court judge of said county.
(1924 Ga. Laws, page 371; 1925 Ga. Laws, page 743)
Sec. 6. - County attorney.
Said Commissioners shall have the right to employ an attorney-at-law to be known as the County Attorney, and it shall be the duty of such County Attorney to represent the county in all legal matters in which said county may be interested or concerned; and he shall be the legal adviser of said board and shall attend the meetings of said board when requested. Such attorney shall receive as compensation for his services such sum as may be agreed upon by him and said board.
Sec. 7. - Meeting schedule.
Said Commissioners shall hold a monthly session on the second Tuesday in each month at the county seat, and may hold other and further sessions at such time or times as they may deem it necessary for county purposes.
Sec. 8. - Road law.
What is known as the alternative road law, as embraced in Sections 694 to 704 inclusive of the Code of 1910, shall be effective in said county and enforceable by said Board of Commissioners.
Editor's note—
The alternative road law cited in this section is obsolete.
State law reference— State, county and municipal road systems, O.C.G.A. § 32-4-1 et seq.; county road systems, O.C.G.A. § 32-4-40 et seq.; regulation of maintenance and use of public roads generally, O.C.G.A. § 32-6-1 et seq.
Sec. 9. - Jurisdiction.
Said board of commissioners shall have exclusive jurisdiction and control over the following matters, to wit: In managing and controlling all property of the county as they may deem it for the best interest for the county according to law; in levying general taxes for general purposes and special taxes for special purposes, according to law; in establishing, maintaining or abolishing all roads, bridges and ferries, according to law; in establishing or abolishing or changing election precincts or militia districts; in supervising the books of the tax collector and tax receiver; in allowing insolvent lists of the county; in having an accounting with all county officers charged with receipt and disbursement of county funds, and bringing them to a settlement; in providing for the paupers of the county; and for the promotion of the health of the county, in accordance with law; in examining the tax digests of the county and the correction of errors therein; in regulating and fixing license fees as may be provided by law; in supplying by appointment all vacancies in county offices and ordering elections to fill the same; in examining, settling and allowing all claims against the county; in establishing, maintaining and working the chain gang on the public roads and bridges of said county, or public property or buildings, or schoolgrounds or schoolhouses or for other uses or purposes to be determined in the discretion of the board of commissioners of roads and revenues of said county, as provided by law; in electing and appointing all officers and employees of said county, whose election is not provided for by law, and in fixing their duties and compensation and in making all rules and regulations covering the scope and duty of such officers and employees; in fixing a commutation road tax, or the number of days of work in lieu thereof, according to law, and in trying and punishing road defaulters; and in general to have and exercise all the powers heretofore vested by law in the probate court judges of the counties of Georgia when sitting for county purposes, and to exercise all other such powers as are granted by law, or as may be indispensable to their jurisdiction over county matters or county finances, including the power to administer oaths, subpoena witnesses and punish for contempt. Said board of commissioners shall also have authority to levy a tax or use the proceeds of any sale of legally authorized bonds of the county; to procure a site or sites and erect thereon a courthouse and jail. Said board shall have the authority to select said site or sites as in their discretion may seem suitable for said purposes, and acquire the same for the county by purchase or gift, and erect thereon said courthouse or jail.
State law reference— Matters over which county governing authority has jurisdiction, O.C.G.A. § 36-5-22.1.
Sec. 10. - Quorum; chairman pro tem.
A majority of said Commissioners shall constitute a quorum, which shall be necessary to pass any orders or transact any business. Said board shall elect a chairman pro tem, who shall preside in the absence of the chairman.
