Chapter 6 - ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES

FOOTNOTE(S):
(7) Editor's note— Ord. of Oct. 9, 2007, §§ I—XXXV, amended Ch. 6 in its entirety to read as herein set out. Former Ch. 6, §§ 6-1, 6-2, pertained to the same subject matter, and derived from Ord. of March 15, 1999.
(7) Cross reference— Businesses, ch. 18.
Sec. 6-1. - Definitions.
For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply:
Board shall mean the Board of Commissioners of Seminole County, Georgia.
Conviction shall mean an adjudication of guilt or a plea of guilty, or a plea of nolo contendere or the forfeiture of bond by a person charged with a crime.
Distance shall mean measurement in a straight line in linear feet from the nearest wall enclosing the proposed premises of licensee to the nearest property line of any school, college or church.
License shall mean the authorization by the governing authority of Seminole County to engage in the sale of malt beverages and/or wine and/or liquor.
Malt beverages, wine and liquor shall mean those beverages defined by O.C.G.A. Title 5A, as amended.
Person shall mean an individual.
Premises shall mean the definite closed or petitioned-in locality whether a room, shop, or building, wherein malt beverages and/or wine and/or liquor is sold, and any and all surrounding and adjacent areas, whether enclosed or not, which are owned by or under the control of the person to whom the license is issued.
Retail sale shall mean selling or offering for sale any malt beverage and/or wine to any member of the public. This also includes liquor.
School or college shall mean on such state, county, city, church or other schools that teach the subjects commonly taught in the common schools of this state to include licenses preschool and/or kindergarten facilities and shall not include private schools where only specialized subjects such as law, stenography, business, music, art, medicine, dentistry, vocational occupations and other special subjects are taught.
Seminole County as used herein shall mean the unincorporated area of Seminole County, Georgia.
(Ord. of 10-9-2007, § I)
Sec. 6-2. - General licensing.
(a)
The sale of malt beverages and/or wine and/or liquor shall be legal in Seminole County, subject to the following terms, conditions, restrictions and upon full compliance by all persons engaged in business under the provisions of this chapter.
(b)
The license granted hereunder shall be a mere grant or privilege to carry on a business during the terms of the license, subject to all the terms and conditions imposed herein and by related laws located in the applicable provisions of the state code and other county ordinances relating to business license.
(c)
Licenses issued hereunder shall be for the purpose of package sales only for liquor/distilled spirits and for on-premises and off-premises for beer and wine. There is no per drink licensing for liquor/distilled spirits in Seminole County.
(Ord. of 10-9-2007, § II)
Sec. 6-3. - Applicant requirements and fees.
(a)
The application for a permit as required in this chapter shall be in writing and addressed to the board of commissioners and shall set forth therein the following information: The type of license applied for; the location of the place of business wherein beer and/or wine and/or liquor is to be sold; whether the premises are owned or leased by applicant; names and addresses of all persons, firms of corporations having a financial interest in profits or losses; and such other information as the board of commissioners may from time to time require. The application shall be signed by the applicant and must be certified by oath of such applicant, and if applicant is to be a corporation, by the oath of one of its executive officers or managers. Such application and oath must be on a form provided by the board of commissioners.
(b)
All applicants for an off-premises retail beer license shall pay a fee in the amount of $100.00 at the time such application is filed. The county shall issue a receipt to the applicant and attach a copy of said receipt to the application.
(c)
All applicants for an off-premises retail wine license shall pay a fee in the amount of $200.00 at the time such application is filed. The county shall issue a receipt to the applicant and attach a copy of said receipt to the application.
(d)
All applicants for an on-premises beer or wine license shall pay (in addition to off-premises fee if applicable) a fee in the amount of $500.00 at the time such application is filed. The county shall issue a receipt to the applicant and attach a copy of said receipt to the application.
(e)
All applicants for an on-premises beer and wine license shall pay (in addition to off-premises fee if applicable) a fee in the amount of $500.00 at the time such application is filed. The county shall issue a receipt to the applicant and attach a copy of said receipt to the application.
(f)
All applicants for a retail liquor/distilled spirits license shall pay a fee in the amount of $1,000.00 at the time such application is filed. The county shall issue a receipt to the applicant and attach a copy of said receipt to the application.
(g)
All applicants for a retail beer, wine and liquor license shall pay a fee in the amount of $1,300.00 at the time such application is filed. The county shall issue a receipt to the applicant and attach a copy of said receipt to the application.
(h)
All applicants shall furnish all data, information, and records pertinent to the application requested of them in writing by the board of commissioners and failure to furnish such data, information and records within 30 days from the date of such request shall automatically serve to dismiss, with prejudice the application. The applicants, by filing an application, agree to produce for oral interrogation any person or persons requested by the sheriff's department or the board of commissioners and considered as being important in the ascertainment of the facts relative to such application and/or license issued under the terms of this chapter. The failure to produce such person or persons within 30 days after being requested to do so shall result in the automatic dismissal of any application pending under this chapter.
(Ord. of 10-9-2007, § III)
Sec. 6-4. - Criminal background check.
All applicants shall be investigated by the Sheriff's Department of Seminole County or by such other person as may be designated by the board of commissioners and the report of such investigation presented to the board of commissioners for consideration with the application.
(Ord. of 10-9-2007, § IV)
Sec. 6-5. - Tax records determination.
The board of commissioners shall cause an inquiry to be made into the tax records to determine if any applicant or other parties interested in an application have any outstanding taxes or special assessments that are delinquent or any other monies owing to the county.
(Ord. of 10-9-2007, § V)
Sec. 6-6. - Reasons for refusal of license.
It shall be unlawful to issue a license to:
(1)
A person who is not a resident of a wet county or municipality of the State of Georgia for a period of 12 months prior to making his/her application.
(2)
All stockholders and officers of a corporation who are not residents of a wet county or municipality of the State of Georgia for a period of one year prior to making application.
(3)
A person who has been convicted of a felony under Georgia Statues or the statutes of any other state within five years of the date of the application.
(4)
A person whose place of business is conducted by an employee, manager or agent unless said manager or agent or employee possesses same qualifications as licensee.
(5)
A person who is not of good moral character.
(6)
A person who is deemed to have insufficient mental capacity.
(7)
A person who has been dishonorably discharged from the armed services of the United States.
(8)
Any person, who, as a previous holder of a license to sell alcoholic beverages, has violated any law, regulation or ordinance relating to such business within a three-year period preceding the date of the application hereunder.
(Ord. of 10-9-2007, § VI)
Sec. 6-7. - Partners, officers and directors.
No person, firm or corporation shall be granted a beer, wine or liquor license unless it shall appear to the satisfaction of the board of commissioners that such persons, partners in the firm, officers and directors of the corporation shall be of good moral character and in no event shall any license be granted to any person or persons or officers or directors of any such corporation who have been convicted or have pled guilty or entered a plea of nolo contendere to any crime involving moral turpitude, lottery, or illegal possession or sale of narcotics or liquors within a period of ten years immediately prior to the filing of such application, or who has been convicted or have pled guilty or entered a plea of nolo contendere to the crime of D.U.I. or public drunkenness within a period of two years immediately prior to the filing of such application, nor shall any such person sell or dispense beer, wine or liquor. At the time of application is submitted for a retail beer, and/or wine and/or liquor license, the applicant shall, by a duly sworn affidavit, certify that neither he, nor any of the other owners of the retail establishment, nor the manager of such establishment, nor any person directly or indirectly or individually financially interested in such establishments, has been convicted or has pleaded guilty or entered a plea of nolo contendere to any crime involving moral turpitude, lottery, or illegal possession or sale of narcotics or liquors within a period of ten years immediately prior to filing of such application. Should any applicant, partner or officer after a license has been granted, be convicted or plead guilty or nolo contendere to a crime involving moral turpitude or the violation of any laws regulating the sale of narcotics, wine, beer, liquor, or the lottery laws of this State, such license shall be immediately revoked and cancelled.
Should any employee used in the sale or dispensing of beer, wine, or liquor, after a license has been granted, be convicted or plead guilty or nolo contendere to a crime involving moral turpitude or the violation of any laws regulating the sale of narcotics, wine, beer, liquor or the lottery laws of this state, and the crime was committed in the course of the employee's employment, on or off the premises of the licensee, and the licensee knew or should have known that the crime had been committed, and did not report immediately the crime to the proper authorities, such license shall be subject to be revoked and cancelled.
(Ord. of 10-9-2007, § VII)
Sec. 6-8. - Locations prohibited.
(a)
It shall be unlawful to issue any alcoholic beverage license for the sale of malt beverages and/or wine and/or liquor within 300 feet of the grounds of any church, school or school ground. The distance requirements must be met at all times during the term of the license.
(b)
In the event the board of commissioners revokes or denies any license for the sale of beer, wine or liquor at any location within Seminole County, no new license shall be granted by the county for the sale of beer, wine or liquor for the period of six months after the date of revocation or denial, at the same location. After notice to the board of commissioners that a person holding a license or his employee or agent, has been accused of prohibited acts, no new license shall be issued for such location until after the disposition of the complaint.
(Ord. of 10-9-2007, § VIII)
Sec. 6-9. - Suspension and revocations.
(a)
Any license which has been issued or which may hereafter be issued by the county to any licensee may be suspended or revoked for due cause as hereinafter defined, and after a hearing held for the purpose of considering any such suspension or revocation. At least five days prior written notice of a time, place and purpose of such hearing, a statement of the charge or charges upon which such hearing shall be held shall be given to the holder of such license which is sought to be suspended or revoked.
(b)
"Due cause" for the suspension or revocation of any license shall consist of a violation of any laws or ordinances regulating such business, or violation of regulations made pursuant to authority granted for the purpose of regulating such businesses, or for the violation of any state, federal or county ordinance that would prevent one from obtaining a license.
(c)
The board of commissioners is hereby authorized to suspend any license issued hereunder in any emergency situation such as civil disorders or natural disasters or in any situation that it deems such immediate suspension necessary for the protection of the health and welfare of the citizens of Seminole County, and said suspension may be made effective immediately and shall remain in force until the board determines the emergency is over or until the next regular meeting of the board of commissioners.
(d)
When a license is suspended or revoked, the county shall not be required to refund any portion of the license fee to the holder of such suspended or revoked license. When a license is revoked, the licensee may not reapply for a license hereunder for a period of three years from such revocation.
(Ord. of 10-9-2007, § IX)
Sec. 6-10. - Notice before suspension or revocation.
No person, firm or corporation whose license has been suspended or revoked pursuant to any provisions hereof shall sell any beverages covered by said suspended or revoked license during the period of such suspension or after such revocation. No licenses shall be suspended or revoked without the board of commissioners first giving to said licensee written notice of the reason therefore, and with five days thereafter the licensee shall have the right to a hearing before the board and present any evidence or give any reason why said license should not be suspended or revoked.
(Ord. of 10-9-2007, § X)
Sec. 6-11. - Unlawful to sell on Sundays.
It shall be unlawful to sell any beer, wine or liquor within the confines of Seminole County on Sunday or election days, as defined by the law of the State, or between the hours of 12:01 a.m. Sunday until 5:00 a.m. Monday.
(Ord. of 10-9-2007, § XI)
Sec. 6-12. - Operating without license is misdemeanor.
Any person who engages in the business of retailing beer, wine, or liquor whether by a single act or more often, in the county without first obtaining a county license herein required for that line of business, for the calendar year in which such business is conducted; any person engaging in such business in the county after such license has expired or has been revoked; and any person violating any other may be punished as a misdemeanor under the laws of this state.
(Ord. of 10-9-2007, § XII)
Sec. 6-13. - License not transferable.
Licenses issued under authority of this chapter shall not be transferable from one person to another nor from one location to another except with the written approval of the Board of Commissioners of Seminole County. The exception would be the death of a person holding a license, in which event his/her personal representative after qualification may continue to operate under the license for up to six months or until the renewal date of the license whichever comes first.
(Ord. of 10-9-2007, § XIII)
Sec. 6-14. - Fingerprint record required.
Each applicant for a license to sell beer, wine or liquor in Seminole County who has not heretofore been licensed by the board of commissioners to sell beer, wine or liquor, at retail, shall be required to submit to a complete fingerprinting record and test, pursuant to the rules and regulations established by the board of commissioners from time to time, the same being used by the board to supplement the information contained on the application and to make available to the board any records of criminal offenses, either federal or state from other jurisdictions.
The board of commissioners within their own discretion, from time to time may require employees, male or female, working in any establishment dispensing beer, wine or liquor, to submit to the same complete fingerprinting record and test and for the same purposes of supplementing any information available to the county with respect to employees.
(Ord. of 10-9-2007, § XIV)
Sec. 6-15. - Employer responsible for acts of employees.
(a)
List of employees to be filed. It shall be the duty of all persons holding any license to sell alcoholic beverages to file with the Clerk of Seminole County the names of all employees, with their home addresses and telephone numbers and places of employment. Changes in the list of employees, with the names of the new employees must be filed with the clerk before the date of any such change. No new employee shall be allowed to sell beer, wine or liquor hereunder until the provision of subsection (a) of this section is complied with.
(b)
The licensee is responsible for the conduct or actions of his employees while in his employment.
(Ord. of 10-9-2007, § XV)
Sec. 6-16. - Under eighteen not allowed to sell, serve or take orders.
Persons under 18 years of age are not to be allowed or required to serve, sell, or take orders for alcoholic beverages, exceptions:
(1)
No person shall allow or require a person in his employment under 18 years of age to dispense, serve, sell, or take orders for any alcoholic beverages.
(2)
The provisions of this section shall not prohibit persons under 18 years of age who are employed in supermarkets, convenience stores, or drug stores from selling or handling alcoholic beverages which are sold for consumption off the premises. (Acts 1980, pp. 1573, 1597, eff. July 1, 1981.)
(Ord. of 10-9-2007, § XVI)
Sec. 6-17. - Minimum age alcohol sold—Twenty-one.
No licensee shall by himself or another sell, furnish, or cause to be sold or furnished, or permit any person in his employ to furnish beer, wine or liquor to any person under 21 years of age, to any person who is noticeably intoxicated, or to any habitual drunk and whose intemperate habits are known to such person.
(Ord. of 10-9-2007, § XVII)
Sec. 6-18. - Age limit to purchase—Twenty-one.
(a)
It shall be unlawful for any person under 21 years of age to purchase, drink or possess any beer, wine or liquor.
(b)
It shall be unlawful for any person to keep or maintain a place wherein those under 21 years of age are permitted to come and purchase any beer, wine or liquor.
(c)
It shall be unlawful for any person to buy beer, wine, or liquor and furnish for consumption the same to anyone under 21 years of age.
(d)
It shall be the responsibility of the licensee to examine the identification of patrons to be certain that such patrons are of legal age. A current Georgia Driver's License which is apparently valid upon its face, may be accepted by the licensee or his employee as evidence of age.
(Ord. of 10-9-2007, § XVIII)
Sec. 6-19. - Unlawful for minor to misrepresent age.
It shall be unlawful for any minor to falsely misrepresent his age in any manner whatsoever.
(Ord. of 10-9-2007, § XIX)
Sec. 6-20. - No loitering of minors.
No person who holds a license to sell beer, wine, or liquor may allow any minor to loiter about the premises of the licensee, unless he is present for the purpose of purchasing goods, other than beer, wine, or liquor.
(Ord. of 10-9-2007, § XX)
Sec. 6-21. - No "drive-in" or "curb service".
(a)
It shall be unlawful to sell or dispense beer from "drive-in" or "service" windows unless it is approved in the application by the board of commissioners.
(b)
Curb service or other sales of beer, wine, or liquor outside the building licensed to sell is hereby expressly prohibited.
(c)
No sign shall be erected anywhere within the county advertising or promoting the sale of beer, wine, or liquor except as may be authorized by state law and regulations of the state department of revenue or other agency having jurisdiction thereof.
(Ord. of 10-9-2007, § XXI)
Sec. 6-22. - License period and due date for renewal.
Each such license and license fee shall be for the calendar year. The fee shall be due and payable in advance by the first day of January of each year. Any person desiring to begin a beer, wine, or liquor business in the county shall pay the prescribed fee and obtain a license before commencing business.
(Ord. of 10-9-2007, § XXII)
Sec. 6-23. - Tax payment.
The payment of any tax for the privilege of engaging in the business of vending beer, wine, or liquor shall not prevent the county from increasing at any time, before or after the grant of a license, the amount of said tax, nor prevent the county from providing for and collecting any other form of taxation of said business.
(Ord. of 10-9-2007, § XXIII)
Sec. 6-24. - License posting and state license.
Application for such license to deal in beer shall be made to the clerk and be accompanied by the amount of license fee. Licenses shall be issued by the board of commissioners. The most current alcoholic beverage license shall be posted conspicuously in public view at eye level in licensee's place of business. Before operating under such county license, the licensee must secure the state license and comply with all provisions of the Act of the General Assembly of Georgia approved March 23, 1935, as amended; and it shall be the duty of the county clerk to furnish to licensee such certificate, copy of the county license, or other evidence as may be required by the state revenue commission in order to show payment of the county license fee.
(Ord. of 10-9-2007, § XXIV)
Sec. 6-25. - Records of purchases.
All retail dealers in beer, wine and liquor, and all persons selling beer, wine and liquor at retail, shall keep a complete and correct record of all purchases of beer, wine and liquor furnished and delivered to them, at the time of delivery of such beverages, a correct invoice of purchase, which invoice shall be kept and preserved by said retailer at his place of business for a period of six months from the date of purchase. Such invoices and all records of retailers of beer, wine and liquor shall be subject to inspection by any authorized representative of the county. All records of purchase shall be kept a period of at least three years from the date of such purchase or sale before being destroyed.
(Ord. of 10-9-2007, § XXV)
Sec. 6-26. - Revocation due to violation of ordinance.
Any license to sell beer, wine or liquor hereafter issued, may be revoked by the board of commissioners for violation of any provision of this chapter.
(Ord. of 10-9-2007, § XXVI)
Sec. 6-27. - False or fraudulent return is a misdemeanor.
Any person who shall submit a false or fraudulent return required by this chapter; or who shall assist any person to evade the payment of any license tax herein provided; or who shall conduct in the county the business of selling, shipping or distributing by retail beer, wine, or liquor after his license to do so has been revoked; or who shall violate any provision of this chapter, shall upon conviction be punished as a misdemeanor.
(Ord. of 10-9-2007, § XXVII)
Sec. 6-28. - Expiration of license.
(a)
All licenses granted pursuant to this chapter shall expire on the 31st day of December of the year in which the same shall be issued.
(b)
Licensees who desire to renew their license shall file application with the requisite fee heretofore provided with the County Clerk of Seminole County on the form provided for renewal of the license for the ensuing year. Applications for renewal must be filed before December 31st of each year, otherwise no renewal license shall be granted, but an application for renewal shall be treated as an initial application, and the applicant shall be required to comply with all rules and regulations for the granting of licenses as if no previous license had been held. All licenses granted hereunder shall be for the calendar year and the full license fee must be paid for a license issued at any time during a license year.
(Ord. of 10-9-2007, § XXIX)
Sec. 6-29. - Grievance of suspension or revocation.
Any person, firm or corporation aggrieved by act or omission of the board of commissioners with respect to its proceedings under this article including the suspension or revocation of a license shall have the right to move for a rehearing. Such motion for omission complained of, shall be in writing, and shall outline the manner in which such protestor believes that the board of commissioners erred. If the motion relates to a matter as to which evidence has already been heard, no additional evidence or argument shall be permitted on the motion for rehearing except after a grant thereof by the board of commissioners. If the matter of which complaint is made was not the subject of a prior hearing at which the protestor was permitted to be present and heard, the board of commissioners shall afford a hearing within ten days after the filing of the motion, of which reasonable notice shall be given to all parties known to the board of commissioners to be interested, at which, persons interested in protesting or supporting the act or omission of the board of commissioners shall be allowed to appear, be represented, introduce oral and documentary evidence, and examine and cross-examine witnesses.
(Ord. of 10-9-2007, § XXX)
Sec. 6-30. - No lewd dancing or nudity allowed.
No on-premises consumption beer and/or wine licenses will be issued under any condition to anyone or for any establishment within Seminole County that permits lewd dancing or the display of nudity in any form. No wine or beer license shall be issued to any type topless bar or to any establishment that allows any form of nudity or other adult entertainment.
(Ord. of 10-9-2007, § XXXI)
Sec. 6-31. - No contest or form of entertainment consisting of wetting.
It shall be unlawful to permit on the premises so licensed any contest or form of entertainment which consists of the wetting or soaking of the upper torso of a female or the pelvic areas of a male or female.
(Ord. of 10-9-2007, § XXXII)
Sec. 6-32. - Residence limited to 500 feet distance from establishment.
No on-premises beer or wine license shall be issued to any person or business establishment that is or will be doing business within 500 feet of any residence unless said residence is owned by the person or persons seeking to obtain such license.
(Ord. of 10-9-2007, § XXXIII)
Sec. 6-33. - Employee's not allowed to consume alcohol during work hours.
It shall be unlawful for any employee of any licensee to consume alcoholic beverages on the premises of the licensee during such employee's working hours.
(Ord. of 10-9-2007, § XXXIV)
Sec. 6-34. - No alcoholic beverages served by other than licensee and employees.
It shall be unlawful for any alcoholic beverage to be served by person's other than the licensee or the licensee's employees or agents.
(Ord. of 10-9-2007, § XXXV)
