ARTICLE VI. - BOARDS, COMMISSIONS AND AUTHORITIES
FOOTNOTE(S):
(8) State Law reference— Conduct of members of local authorities, O.C.G.A. § 36-62-12 et seq.
DIVISION 1. - GENERALLY

Sec. 2-433. - Establishment by council.
The town council shall establish such boards, commissions, and authorities as it deems necessary or desirable from time to time to fulfill any investigative, quasi-judicial or quasi-legislative function the mayor and council, upon such terms as are provided by the council by ordinance in accordance with the town's Charter.
Sec. 2-434. - Rules, regulations and bylaws.
Unless otherwise provided by the town council, each board, commission, and authority established by the town council may establish such bylaws, rules and regulations, not inconsistent with the town's Charter, this code, or general law, as it deems appropriate and necessary for the fulfillment of its duties or the conduct of its affairs; provided, however, that copies of such bylaws, rules and regulations shall be filed with the clerk of the town.
Sec. 2-435. - Planning commission and board of zoning appeals.
The town planning commission and board of zoning appeals shall be as established in chapter 52, pertaining to zoning.
Secs. 2-436—2-453. - Reserved.
DIVISION 2. - SANITARY BOARD

Sec. 2-454. - Appointment.
The town council may, at their first regular meeting in each year, after the new council have qualified or as soon thereafter as practicable, elect or appoint three citizens of said town who may be of their own body as a sanitary board.
(Code 1947, § 5-80)
Sec. 2-455. - Duties.
The duties of the sanitary board shall be to supervise the administration of all the state, county, and town health laws that may apply to the town to examine into all cases of malignant, persitential, infectious and epidemic diseases which may occur in the town or be brought into said town, and to examine into the cases thereof and make report thereof; to examine all such nuisances which may tend to endanger the health of the town and to take such steps as may be necessary for their removal; to exercise a general supervision over the sanitary regulation within the corporate limits of said town; to direct all means of detention, disinfection and purification of all privies, vats, sinks, stables, lots, sheds, yards, houses and every other place or places within said town that in their judgment requires clearing, and to take such necessary steps to have the same cleaned and kept pure and clean at all times as they may think necessary.
(Code 1947, § 5-80)
Secs. 2-456—2-478. - Reserved.
