ARTICLE VII. - FINANCE
FOOTNOTE(S):
(9) State Law reference— Municipal finance generally, O.C.G.A. § 36-81-1 et seq.; adoption of budget articles and resolutions, O.C.G.A. § 36-81-1 et seq.; political subdivision audits, O.C.G.A. § 36-81-7; accounting for public funds, O.C.G.A. § 45-8-1; limitations on use of purchasing and contract procedures, O.C.G.A. § 34-4-3.1; municipal bonds, O.C.G.A. § 36-38-1; standards for town and county audits, O.C.G.A. § 36-60-8; officer responsible for political subdivision investments, O.C.G.A. § 36-80-4; public works bidding, O.C.G.A. § 26-91-1 et seq.
DIVISION 1. - GENERALLY

Sec. 2-479. - Fiscal year.
The fiscal year of the town shall begin on January 1 and end on December 31 of each year.
State law reference— Fiscal year required to be established by ordinance, O.C.G.A. § 36-81-3.
Sec. 2-480. - Fee and fine schedules; fees and fines established by mayor subject to approval of council.
The town maintains schedules of fees for permits, licenses, and other municipal charges, and fines for certain code violations. The amount of fees or charges imposed by the town including, but not limited to, those encompassed in the town fee schedule, and the amount of fines for certain code violations including, but not limited to, those encompassed in the town's fine schedule, shall be established from time to time by the town mayor, subject to approval by resolution of the town council.
Sec. 2-481. - Disbursement of town funds by town clerk.
Town funds may be disbursed from the town treasury upon the signature of any two of the following town officials: mayor, councilmembers, town clerk.
(Code 1947, § 1-19a)
Secs. 2-482—2-500. - Reserved.
DIVISION 2. - BUDGET

Sec. 2-501. - Submission of annual budget.
On or before a date fixed by the town council, but not later than 30 days prior to the beginning of each fiscal year, the mayor in coordination with the town clerk shall submit to the mayor and council a proposed operating budget for the ensuing fiscal year, showing the following:
(1)
The revenue and expenditure during the previous fiscal year;
(2)
Appropriations and estimated revenue and expenditures for the current fiscal year;
(3)
Estimated revenue and recommended expenditures for the ensuing fiscal year;
(4)
A comparative statement of the assets, liabilities, reserves, and surplus at the end of the previous fiscal year, and estimated assets, liabilities, reserves, and surplus, both at the end of the current fiscal year and the ensuing fiscal year; and
(5)
Such other information and data as may be considered necessary by the mayor and council.
State law reference— Annual budget generally, O.C.G.A. § 36-81-3 et seq.
Sec. 2-502. - Action by town council on budget.
(a)
The mayor and council may amend the proposed operating budget submitted by the mayor. However, the budget as finally amended and adopted must provide for all expenditures required by state law or by other provisions of this Charter and for all debt service requirements for the ensuing fiscal year. Moreover, the total appropriations from any funds shall not exceed the estimated fund balance, reserves, and revenues.
(b)
The mayor and council by ordinance shall adopt a final operating budget for the ensuing fiscal year, no later than the regular scheduled December council meeting for each year. If the town council fails to adopt the budget on or before the date set out herein, the amounts appropriated for operation for the current fiscal year shall be deemed adopted for the ensuing fiscal year on a month-to-month basis, with all items prorated accordingly until such time as the mayor and council adopt a budget for the ensuing fiscal year. If the town is operating on a tentative budget, then the mayor and council may not make any capital purchases or other such expenditures until a new budget is agreed upon and formally adopted. Notice of any or all meetings at which the budget is adopted shall be given as provided by state law.
(c)
Adoption of the budget shall take the form of an appropriations ordinance setting out the estimated revenues in detail by sources and making appropriations according to fund and by organizational unit, purpose, or activity as set out in the budget preparation ordinance adopted pursuant to this division and the town Charter.
(d)
The amount set out in the adopted operating budget for each organizational unit shall constitute the annual appropriation for same, and no expenditures shall be made or any encumbrance created in excess of the otherwise encumbered balance of the appropriations or allotment thereof to which it is chargeable unless the budget is amended and such excess expenditure approved by the mayor and council. In addition, the mayor and council shall not make any appropriations in excess of any estimated revenue, except to provide for an actual emergency threatening the health, property, lives, safety, or general welfare of the inhabitants of the town, which emergency shall be declared by the affirmative vote of a majority of the quorum of the town council, including the mayor in the event of a tie vote.
State law reference— Adoption of budget, O.C.G.A. § 36-81-6.
Sec. 2-503. - Changes in appropriations.
The mayor and council may by ordinance make changes in the appropriations contained in the adopted operating budget, at any regular meeting or any special or emergency meeting called for that purpose, but any such additional appropriations may be made only for an existing anticipated unappropriated surplus in the fund to which it applies.
Sec. 2-504. - Lapse of appropriations.
Any unencumbered balances of appropriations in the current operating budget at the end of the fiscal year shall lapse into the unappropriated surplus or reserves of the fund from which such appropriations were made.
Sec. 2-505. - Capital budget.
(a)
On or before a date fixed by the mayor and council, but no later than 30 days prior to the beginning of each fiscal year, the mayor and clerk may submit to the mayor and council a proposed capital improvement plan with a recommended capital budget containing the means of financing the improvements proposed for the ensuing fiscal year. The mayor and council shall have the power to accept, with or without amendments, or reject the proposed plan and budget. The mayor and council shall not authorize an expenditure for the construction of any building, structure, work, or improvement on any public property, unless the appropriations for such project are included in the capital budget, except to meet a public emergency that threatens the lives, health, property, or general welfare of the citizens of the town, which emergency shall be declared by the affirmative vote of three members of the council, including the mayor in the event of a tie vote.
(b)
If such a budget is submitted, the town council shall adopt by ordinance the final capital budget for the ensuing fiscal year, not later than the regular December meeting before the beginning of said year. No appropriation provided for in a prior capital improvements budget shall lapse until the purpose for which the appropriation was made has been completed or abandoned. However, the mayor may submit to the town council amendments to the capital budget at any time during the fiscal year, accompanied by recommendations. Any such amendments to the capital budget shall become effective only upon their adoption by ordinance and by the affirmative vote of a majority of a quorum of the town council including the mayor in the event of a tie vote. In addition, the capital improvements budget may be revised and extended each year with regard to capital improvements still pending or in the process of construction or acquisition.
Sec. 2-506. - Independent audit.
There shall be an annual independent audit of all town accounts, funds, and financial transactions by a certified public accountant selected by the town council. The accountant shall conduct this audit according to generally accepted auditing and accounting principles and file a report with the mayor and council, as well as a summary thereof, both of which shall be furnished or made available to the mayor and every councilmember. Any audit of any funds by the state or federal governments may be accepted as satisfying the requirements of this section.
Secs. 2-507—2-535. - Reserved.
DIVISION 3. - PURCHASES

FOOTNOTE(S):
(10) State Law reference— Municipal home rule, Ga. Const. art. IX, § II; Municipal Home Rule Act, O.C.G.A. § 36-35-1 et seq.; multiple-year contracts and leases, O.C.G.A. § 36-60-13; public works contracts, O.C.G.A. § 36-84-1 et seq.; municipal purchases through state department of administrative services, O.C.G.A. § 50-5-100 et seq.
Sec. 2-536. - Purchasing procedures.
(a)
No officer or employee of the town shall purchase for or on behalf of the town or his office any materials, supplies, goods, wares, merchandise or equipment of any kind or character except through the approval of the mayor or his designee but as previously approved by the mayor and town council, except for emergencies as provided for elsewhere in this division. No voucher check or other method of payment shall be honored if this method is not followed.
(b)
It shall be considered a breach of duty on the part of any officer or employee of the town to make any purchase or aid and abet the making of any purchase by any other manner than through the mayor and town council, except as otherwise specifically provided herein.
(c)
Purchases up to $1,000.00 may be made by authorized personnel with approval from the mayor provided that the purchase is a budgeted item. Purchase of nonbudgeted items for emergency purposes may be approved by the mayor up to $1,000.00. Any purchase over $1,000.00 shall require the approval of the town council, except for emergency purchases which may be approved by the mayor and the finance committee.
(d)
The officer or employee desiring to make a purchase shall first submit to the mayor a requisition form to be provided by the town clerk, which form shall identify the officer or employee seeking the purchase, the department for which the purchase is sought, at least three bids on the item to be purchased or explanation as to why bids were not obtained, the quantity of items sought to be purchased, the purchase price of each unit and the total price and any other information required by the mayor and town council. Upon approval of the requisition, the mayor, or the clerk at his direction, shall issue the purchase order.
(e)
All invoices shall be turned in on a daily basis and shall be attached to the purchase orders. All such invoices shall be submitted to the mayor and town council.
(f)
When approval of the mayor, the finance committee, or the council is required for purchases, the approval shall be in writing and, for those purposes, the writing may be in electronic form and transmitted as e-mail.
Sec. 2-537. - Purchase orders.
(a)
No officer or employee of the town shall request any merchant, dealer or other vendor to deliver goods to the town, or any department or officer or employee thereof, having a cost of more than $50.00, except on a regular purchase order approved by the mayor, except as provided for emergencies.
(b)
All purchase orders must be executed by the mayor or a standing committee chair.
(c)
Any purchases made without obtaining a purchase order in advance shall be disallowed and payment refused. No purchase order will be issued after the fact. Vendors, merchants and dealers will be deemed to have dealt at their own risk with any employee or officer who does not have a purchase order.
Sec. 2-538. - Emergency purchases.
(a)
In all cases where there is immediate need for any materials, supplies, goods, wares or merchandise by any department, such department must advise the mayor, and if he cannot be located, the committee chair or, if he cannot be located, a committee member charged with overseeing the department for which the purchase is required. If none of the above can be reached and the purchase of the item is absolutely necessary, such purchase must be reported to the mayor and town council within 24 hours of such purchase.
(b)
An emergency is defined as being a situation where immediate action is absolutely necessary and delay would adversely affect the life, health or safety of the citizens of the town or the property of the town.
Sec. 2-539. - Substitution of items of equal quality.
In all purchases where quality as well as price and service is involved, the mayor and town council at his direction shall exercise discretion in making the purchase. In all cases where patented items or special purpose items are requested, the mayor and town council at his direction has the discretionary authority to decide whether similar products of equal quality and at a lower price shall be ordered in lieu of items requested.
Sec. 2-540. - Competitive bids and exceptions.
(a)
Unless otherwise provided by the town council, the town shall make all purchases in excess of $1,000.00 by competitive bid except as follows:
(1)
Repair to existing equipment and motor vehicles;
(2)
Emergency purchases;
(3)
Gasoline, fuel and oil;
(4)
Routine building and maintenance repairs;
(5)
Materials and services when available from only one source;
(6)
Professional services rendered at the direction of council;
(7)
Purchases from state or federal agency.
(b)
All bids for goods and materials purchased by the town shall be kept on file in the mayor and town clerk's office and shall be subject to inspection at any time.
Sec. 2-541. - Sale of town property.
(a)
No property belonging to the town shall be sold except after approval of the town council.
(b)
When any property owned by the town has become surplus, unserviceable or useless, the head of the department in charge of the property shall certify to the town council that such property is no longer useful and should be disposed of. Any property to be sold shall be sold at public sale either by sealed bid or public outcry to the highest bidder for cash, except nothing in this section shall prevent the town from donating or exchanging such surplus property with other governmental units or quasi-governmental units.
State law reference— Sale of municipal property, O.C.G.A. § 36-37-6.
Sec. 2-542. - Violation of division grounds for discharge.
Violation of any provision of this division shall be determined a violation of the town personnel policy and shall be deemed sufficient grounds for discharge.
Secs. 2-543—2-562. - Reserved.
DIVISION 4. - CONTRACTS

Sec. 2-563. - Definitions.
The following words, terms and phrases, when used in this division, shall have the meanings ascribed to them in this section, except where the context clearly indicates a different meaning:
Construction means improvements or repairs the objective of which is to build, install, repair or improve a permanent structure, location, system or device with lumber, masonry, concrete, asphalt, rock, gravel, metal, plastic, glass or other similar material, to include necessary machinery, appliances or other fixtures and devices necessary for proper completion of such improvement or repairs.
Longterm or substantial means any contract of a duration exceeding 12 months, or involving the payment by the town of more than $50,000.00 for any goods, services, equipment or materials.
Permanent means having a useful life of five years or more.
Town contract means any contract for construction for the town or negotiated by the town for the benefit of the public or an individual, firm or corporation, regardless of whether or not the town is a party to the contract.
Sec. 2-564. - Contracting procedures.
(a)
No longterm or substantial contract with the town shall be binding on the town unless:
(1)
It is in writing;
(2)
It is drawn by or submitted and reviewed by the town attorney, and as a matter of course, is signed by the town attorney to indicate such drafting or review; and
(3)
It is made or authorized by the town council and such approval is entered in the town council minutes of proceedings.
(b)
The town shall follow the requirements of state law with regard to any "public works construction projects" as defined by O.C.G.A. § 36-91-1 et seq. or other such applicable laws as are or may hereafter be enacted in giving notice, receiving bids, requiring performance and payment bonds, and entering into contracts for such projects. The mayor shall have the discretion to require any outside contractors, subcontractors, or other persons to execute a written contract or letter or memorandum of understanding in all outside town projects costing in excess of $5,000.00, depending on the nature of the project.
Sec. 2-565. - Bids required.
Every town construction contract in the amount of $5,000.00 and over shall require competitive bidding.
Sec. 2-566. - Application of state law.
O.C.G.A. § 13-10-1, as the same may hereafter be amended, shall apply to all town construction contracts within limits specified therein.
State law reference— Bonds for public works contracts, O.C.G.A. § 13-10-1.
Sec. 2-567. - Invitation to bid; advertisement.
No town construction contract within the regulation of this article shall be entered into until an "invitation to bid" has been published at least two times one week apart in the official legal organ of the town. The invitation will state the nature of the work to be performed; the project description, if applicable; and the location where specifications for the work, bid documents and bid requirements may be obtained.
Sec. 2-568. - Bid bonds or other security.
(a)
In every instance where the town is seeking a contract subject to this article no bid shall be considered unless the contractor shall give a bid bond with good and sufficient surety approved by the town clerk for the faithful acceptance of the contract, payable to the town and for the protection of the town and the person for which the town seeks to contract. The bid bond shall be in the amount of not less than five percent of the total payable by the terms of the contract.
(b)
In lieu of the bid bond provided for in subsection (a) of this section, a cashier's check, certified check or cash will be accepted by the town, in such amount, payable and for the protection aforesaid.
Sec. 2-569. - Performance bond; payment bond.
(a)
Every contractor subject to the provisions of this division shall furnish a performance bond with good and sufficient surety payable to, in favor of, and for the protection of the town and/or the person for whom the work is to be done. The performance bond shall be in the amount of at least the total amount payable by the terms of the contract.
(b)
Every contractor subject to provisions of this division shall furnish a payment bond with good and sufficient surety payable to the town and/or the person for whom the work is to be done, and for the use and protection of all subcontractors and all persons supplying labor, materials, machinery, and equipment in the prosecution of the work provided for in the contract.
(c)
In lieu of either or both of the bonds provided for in subsections (a) and (b) of this section, the town may accept a cashier's check, certified check or cash in the amount of either or both of the otherwise required bonds for the usage and protection aforesaid.
Sec. 2-570. - Workers' compensation insurance required.
All contractors performing work subject to this division shall have workers' compensation insurance within limits required by the laws of the state.
Sec. 2-571. - Vehicle liability insurance required.
All contractors performing work subject to this division shall have vehicle liability insurance on each vehicle used in the work, with limits not less than $100,000.00 to an aggregate of $300,000.00 per incident for personal property damages and $50,000.00 property damage.
Sec. 2-572. - Public liability insurance required.
All contractors performing work subject to this division shall have public liability insurance with limits not less than $100,000.00 personal injury and $50,000.00 property damage.
Sec. 2-573. - Period of insurance coverage; additional insured; copies.
Insurance required by this division shall be effective for the time required to complete the town contract. With the exception of workers' compensation insurance, the town and/or the party with whom the town has arranged the work shall be listed as an additional insured. Copies of insurance policies evidencing compliance with this division must be furnished to the town prior to commencing contract performance.
Sec. 2-574. - Bonds; acceptability.
All bonds required by this division shall be obtained from companies holding certificates of authority as acceptable sureties, currently listed as such in federal publications.
Secs. 2-575—2-596. - Reserved.
