Chapter 6 - ANIMALS[1]

Sec. 6-1. - Injury or destroying; use of poisons.
Whoever willfully and maliciously kills, wounds, maims, disfigures or poisons any domestic animal or exposes any poisonous substances with the intent that the life of any animal should be destroyed thereby, such animal being the property of another, shall upon conviction be punished as for a misdemeanor.
(Prior Code, § 13-1)
State Law reference— Cruelty to animals, O.C.G.A. § 16-12-4.
Sec. 6-2. - Hogs prohibited in the city.
It shall be unlawful for any person to keep enclosed in any pen, or otherwise, any swine of any description within the city limits.
(Prior Code, § 13-3)
Sec. 6-3. - Running at large—Generally.
It shall be unlawful for any person in charge or control of any horse, mule, jack, cow, bull, goat, sheep, hog, cattle, or any kind of livestock, to allow the same to run at large in and upon the streets, alleys, or commons of the city.
(Prior Code, § 13-4)
State Law reference— Livestock at large, O.C.G.A. § 4-3-1 et seq.
Sec. 6-4. - Same—Domestic fowl; trespassing prohibited.
All chickens, geese, ducks, turkeys and other domestic fowl shall be kept by the owners thereof on their own premises, and it shall be unlawful for the owners of such fowl to allow them to run or be at large in the streets, or to allow or permit them to run or be at large in the streets, or to allow them to go upon and trespass on the yards, lawns or premises of other people.
(Prior Code, § 13-5)
Sec. 6-5. - Impounding animals.
It shall be the duty of the police of the city, and of such other persons designated by the mayor and council, to take up and confine any animals or fowl mentioned in this chapter as shall be found at large within the city limits.
(Prior Code, § 13-7)
Sec. 6-6. - Animal restraint.
(a)
Definitions. The following words, terms and phrases, when used in this division, shall have the meanings ascribed to them in this section, except where the context clearly indicates a different meaning:
Owner means any person who owns, keeps, harbors, or acts as custodian of a dog for a period of 72 hours or more.
Restraint means securing of a dog by a leash or lead with a collar, or enclosure by way of a fence, electronic fence, or other enclosure such that it may not run at large beyond the limits of the property of its owner or custodian. A dog shall also be considered under restraint if, although not secured or enclosed, it is within the limits of the property of its owner or custodian and is supervised to the extent that someone responsible is present on the property of the dog's owner and the dog is not running at large. A dog shall also be considered under restraint if, while off the property of its owner or custodian, it is restrained on a leash, within a motor vehicle, crate or dog box, or obedient to voice or electronic commands, and is accompanied by the owner, custodian, or other person of responsible age. Provided, however, this section shall not apply to dogs while training or participating in lawful activities, such as hunting, obedience trials, field trials, dog shows, tracking or law enforcement work.
(b)
Failure to restrain dog. It shall be unlawful for any person to fail to restrain a dog which is owned by or in the custody or control of such person.
(c)
Enforcement. It shall be the duty of the police department and the city's code enforcement officer to enforce the provisions of this section. The police department, code enforcement officer, and other city designated employees shall have the right to go on any private property as is reasonably necessary to enforce the provisions of this section. Violations of this section may be enforced by a citation or accusation returnable to the Milner Municipal Court. Violators of this section shall be punished as follows:
First offense in any six-month period warning.
Second offense in any six-month period a fine not exceed $100.00.
Third and subsequent offense in any six-month period: a fine not to exceed $250.00 per offense.
(Ord. No. 11-3, § 1, 2-9-2011)
