Chapter 1 - GENERAL PROVISIONS

Sec. 1-1. - How Code designated and cited.
The ordinances embraced in the following chapters and sections shall constitute and be designated "The Code of the City of Milner, Georgia," and may be so cited. The Code consists of subparts A and B.
(Prior Code, § 1-1)
State Law reference— Codification requirements, O.C.G.A. § 36-80-19.
Sec. 1-2. - Definitions and rules of construction.
In the construction of this Code and of all ordinances, the rules of construction and definitions set out in this section shall be observed. The rules of construction and definitions set out in this section shall not be applied to any section of this Code which shall contain any express provisions excluding such construction or where the subject matter or context of such section may be repugnant thereto.
Generally. The ordinary signification shall be applied to all words, except words of art or words connected with a particular trade or subject matter when they shall have the signification attached to them by experts in such trade or with reference to such subject matter. In all interpretations, the courts shall look diligently for the intention of the mayor and council, keeping in view, at all times, the old law, the evil and the remedy. Grammatical errors shall not vitiate, and a transposition of words and clauses may be resorted to when the sentence or clause is without meaning as it stands.
As soon as possible. The term "as soon as possible" means within a reasonable time, having due regard to all the circumstances.
City. The term "city" means the City of Milner, Georgia.
Code. The term "Code" means The Code of the City of Milner, Georgia, as designated in section 1-1.
Computation of time. When a number of days is prescribed for the exercise of any privilege or the discharge of any duty, only the first or last day shall be counted. If the last day shall fall on Saturday or Sunday, the party having such privilege or duty shall have through the following Monday to exercise such privilege or to discharge the duty. When the last day prescribed for such action shall fall on a public or legal holiday as set forth in state law, the party having such privilege or duty shall have through the following business day to exercise such privilege or to discharge the duty. When the period of time prescribed is less than seven days, an intermediate Saturday, Sunday and legal holiday shall be excluded in the computation.
Conjunctions. Where a provision involves two or more items, conditions, provisions or events connected by the conjunction "and," "or" or "either . . . or," the conjunction shall be interpreted as follows; provided, in appropriate cases the terms "and" and "or" are interchangeable:
(1)
The term "and" indicates that all the connected items, conditions, provisions or events shall apply.
(2)
The term "or" indicates that the connected items, conditions, provisions or events may apply singly or in any combination.
(3)
The term "either . . . or" indicates that the connected items, conditions, provisions or events shall apply singly, but not in combination.
County. The term "county" means Lamar County, Georgia.
Delegation of authority. Whenever a provision appears requiring a city officer or city employee to do some act, it is to be construed to authorize the officer or employee to designate, delegate and authorize subordinates to perform the required act.
Following. The term "following" means next after.
Gender. Words of one gender include all other genders.
Joint authority. A joint authority given to any number of persons or officers may be executed by a majority of them, unless it is otherwise declared.
Liberal construction; minimum requirements; overlapping provisions. All general provisions, terms, phrases and expressions contained in this Code shall be liberally construed in order that the true intent and meaning of the mayor and council may be fully carried out. In the interpretation and application of any provision of this Code, they shall be held to be the minimum requirements adopted for the promotion of the public health, safety, comfort, convenience and general welfare. Where any provision of this Code imposes greater restrictions upon the subject matter than the other provisions of this Code, the provision imposing the greater restriction or regulation shall be deemed to be controlling. The specific controls over the general.
May. The term "may" is to be construed as being permissive.
Mayor and council. The term "mayor and council" means the mayor and council of the City of Milner, Georgia, being the governing body of the city.
Month. The term "month" means a calendar month.
Must. The term "must" is to be construed as being mandatory.
Number. Words used in the singular include the plural. Words used in the plural include the singular.
Oath. The term "oath" shall be construed to include an affirmation in all cases in which, by law, an affirmation may be substituted for an oath, and in such cases the terms "swear" and "sworn" shall be equivalent to the terms "affirm" and "affirmed."
Officials, officers, etc. Whenever reference is made to officials, employees, boards, commissions or other agencies by title only, the reference refers to the officials, employees, boards, commissions or other agencies of the city.
Person. The term "person" includes any association, club, society, firm, corporation, limited liability company, partnership or body politic and corporate, as well as an individual.
Personal property. The term "personal property" includes every species of property except real property.
Preceding. The term "preceding" means next before.
Property. The term "property" includes real and personal property.
Public place. The term "public place" includes any place that the public is invited or permitted to go or congregate.
Real property. The term "real property" includes lands, tenements and hereditaments.
Shall. The term "shall" is to be construed as being mandatory.
Sidewalk. The term "sidewalk" means any portion of a street between the curbline and the adjacent property line, intended for the use of pedestrians, excluding parkways.
Signature or subscription. The term "signature" or "subscription" means and includes a mark when the person cannot write.
State. The term "state" means the State of Georgia.
Street. The term "street" shall be construed to embrace streets, avenues, boulevards, roads, courts, alleys, lanes, circles, viaducts and all other public streets and ways in the city and shall embrace all parts thereof constituting the designated right-of-way.
Tenant or occupant. The term "tenant" or "occupant," applied to a building or land, means and includes any person holding a written or oral lease of or who occupies the whole or a part of a building or land, either alone or with others.
Tense. Words used in the past or present tense include the future, as well as the past and present.
Week. The term "week" means seven days.
Will. The term "will" is to be construed as being mandatory.
Writing. The term "writing" includes printing and all numerals.
Year. The term "year" means a calendar year.
(Prior Code, § 1-2)
Sec. 1-3. - Catchlines of sections; effect of history notes; references in Code.
(a)
The catchlines of sections of this Code printed in boldface type, italic, or otherwise, are intended as mere catchwords to indicate the contents of the section or subsection, and shall not be deemed or taken to be the titles thereof, or as any part thereof, nor, unless expressly so provided, shall they be so deemed when any of such sections, including the catchlines, are amended or reenacted.
(b)
The history or source notes appearing in parentheses after sections in this Code are not intended to have any legal effect but are merely intended to indicate the source of matter contained in the section. Editor's notes, and state law references which appear after sections or subsections of this Code or which otherwise appear in footnote form are provided for the convenience of the user of this Code and have no legal effect.
(c)
All references to chapters, articles, divisions, subdivisions or sections are to chapters, articles, divisions, subdivisions or sections of this Code, unless otherwise specified.
(Prior Code, § 1-3)
Sec. 1-4. - Effect of repeal of ordinances.
The repeal of an ordinance shall not revive any ordinances in force before or at the time the ordinance repealed took effect. The repeal of an ordinance shall not affect any punishment or penalty incurred before the repeal took effect, nor any suit, prosecution or proceeding pending at the time of the repeal, for an offense committed under the ordinance repealed.
(Prior Code, § 1-4)
Sec. 1-5. - Supplementation of Code.
(a)
Supplements to this Code shall be prepared and printed whenever authorized or directed by the city. A supplement to the Code shall include all substantive permanent and general parts of ordinances adopted during the period covered by the supplement and all changes made thereby in the Code. The pages of a supplement shall be so numbered that they will fit properly into the Code and will, where necessary, replace pages which have become obsolete or partially obsolete, and the new pages shall be so prepared that, when they have been inserted, the Code will be current through the date of the adoption of the latest ordinance included in the supplement.
(b)
In preparing a supplement to this Code, all portions of the Code that have been repealed shall be excluded from the Code by the omission thereof from reprinted pages.
(c)
When preparing a supplement to this Code, the person authorized to prepare the supplement may make formal, nonsubstantive changes in ordinances or resolutions and parts of ordinances or resolutions included in the supplemental, insofar as it is necessary to do so to embody them into a unified Code. For example, the person may:
(1)
Organize the ordinance material into appropriate subdivisions.
(2)
Provide appropriate catchlines, headings and titles for sections and other subdivisions of the Code printed in the supplement and make changes in such catchlines, headings and titles.
(3)
Assign appropriate numbers to sections and other subdivisions to be inserted in the Code and, where necessary to accommodate new material, change existing section or other subdivision numbers.
(4)
Change the words "this ordinance" or words of the same meaning to "this chapter," "this article," "this division," etc., as the case may be, or to "sections _______ to _______" (inserting section numbers to indicate the sections of the Code that embody the substantive sections of the ordinance incorporated into the Code).
(5)
Make other nonsubstantive changes necessary to preserve the original meaning of ordinances inserted into the Code.
(d)
In no case shall the person make any change in the meaning or effect of ordinance material included in the supplement or already embodied in the Code.
Sec. 1-6. - Amendment to Code; effect of new ordinances; amendatory language.
(a)
All ordinances passed subsequent to this Code of Ordinances that amend, repeal or in any way affect this Code of Ordinances, may be numbered in accordance with the numbering system of this Code and printed for inclusion therein. When subsequent ordinances repeal any chapter, section or subsection or any portion thereof, such repealed portions may be excluded from said Code by omission from reprinted pages.
(b)
Amendments to any of the provisions of this Code should be made by amending such provisions by specific reference to the section of this Code in substantially the following language: "Section _______ of The Code of the City of Milner, Georgia, is hereby amended to read as follows: ________ (set out new provisions in full)".
(c)
When the mayor and council desires to enact an ordinance of a general and permanent nature on a subject not heretofore existing in the Code, which the mayor and council desires to incorporate into the Code, a section in substantially the following language shall be made a part of the ordinance: "Section _______. It is the intention of the mayor and council and it is hereby ordained that the provisions of this ordinance shall become and made a part of The Code of the City of Milner, Georgia, and the sections of this ordinance may be renumbered to accomplish such intention."
(d)
All sections, articles, chapters or provisions of this Code desired to be repealed should be specifically repealed by section or chapter number, as the case may be.
(Prior Code, § 1-6)
Sec. 1-7. - General penalty.
(a)
In this section, the term "violation of this Code" means:
(1)
Doing an act that is prohibited or made or declared unlawful, an offense or a misdemeanor by ordinance or by rule or regulation authorized by ordinance;
(2)
Failure to perform an act that is required to be performed by ordinance or by rule or regulation authorized by ordinance; or
(3)
Failure to perform an act if the failure is declared a misdemeanor or an offense or unlawful by ordinance or by rule or regulation authorized by ordinance.
(b)
In this section, the term "violation of this Code" does not include the failure of a city officer or city employee to perform an official duty, unless it is provided that failure to perform the duty is to be punished as provided in this section or it is clear from the context that it is the intent to impose the penalty provided for in this section upon the officer or employee.
(c)
Except as otherwise provided:
(1)
A person convicted of a violation of this Code shall be punished by a fine not exceeding $250.00.
(2)
With respect to violations of this Code that are continuous with respect to time, each day the violation continues is a separate offense.
(3)
With respect to violations of this Code that are not continuous with respect to time, each day the violation continues is a separate offense.
(d)
The imposition of a penalty does not prevent revocation or suspension of a license, permit or franchise or other administrative sanctions.
(e)
Violations of this Code that are continuous with respect to time are a public nuisance and may be abated by injunctive or other equitable relief and by such other means as are provided by law. The imposition of a penalty does not prevent equitable relief.
(Prior Code, § 1-8)
State Law reference— Limitations on penalties, O.C.G.A. § 36-35-6(a)(2); authority to punish ordinance violations by requiring labor, O.C.G.A. § 36-30-8.
Sec. 1-8. - Fines for traffic and other offenses.
The traffic fines enforced by the city have met the laws of the state and the codes of law enforcement. The fines have been set according to O.C.G.A. Title 15, Chapter 21 (O.C.G.A. § 15-21-1 et seq.) The recommended traffic fines are listed below as follows:
EXPAND
CODES DESCRIPTIONS (City Ordinances) RECOMM. FINES
26-1(1) Marijuana Less than 1 Ounce (per offense) 1,200.00
26-1(2) No Insurance Violation (per offense) 700.00
26-1(3) Theft by Shoplifting (1 st offense) 500.00
Theft by Shoplifting (2 nd offense) 1,000.00
Theft by Shoplifting (3 rd offense and sub.) 1,250.00
26-1(4) Minor in Possession of Alcohol (per offense) 250.00
26-1(5) Criminal Trespass (per offense) 250.00
26-2 Loitering/Prowling (per offense) 110.00
26-3(1-25) Disorderly Conduct (per offense) 650.00
26-4 Damage/Interference with Utilities ( Power, Water, etc. ) 200+Bill
26-5 Discharge of Firearms within City Limits (per offense) 500.00
26-6 Disorderly House (per offense) 500.00
26-7 Throwing Missiles (per offense) 50.00
26-8 Quelling Disturbance ( Disorderly Conduct ) (per offense) 650.00
26-9(B1-9) Noise Nuisance (1 st offense) Warning
Noise Nuisance (2 nd offense) 150.00
Noise Nuisance (3 rd offense and sub.) 300.00
26-10(A1-5) Obstructing Right-of-Way and Surroundings 50.00
34-82 No Thru Trucks ( Commercial Vehicles ) 150.00
6-6 Animal Restraints (1 st offense) Warning
Animal Restraints (2 nd offense) 100.00
Animal Restraints (3 rd offense and sub.) 250.00
34-90(90-94) Golf Cart Ordinance 1 st Not to exceed 250.00 Warning
Golf Cart Ordinance 2 nd Not to exceed 500.00 100.00
Golf Cart Ordinance 3 rd and sub. Not to exceed 1,000.00 250.00
34-91 Residential—Commercial/Heavy Vehicle Parking—1 st Warning
Not to exceed 1,000.00 2 nd offense 100.00
3 rd offense and sub. 250.00
34-92 Parking Prohibited on Street Less than 24 Feet Wide 1 st Warning
Not to exceed 1,000.00 2 nd offense 50.00
3 rd offense and sub. 100.00
  (Prior Code, § 30-3; Ord. No. 2018-08, § 1, 12-3-2018)
Sec. 1-9. - Severability of parts of Code.
It is hereby declared to be the intention of the mayor and council that the sections, paragraphs, sentences, clauses and phrases of this Code are severable, and if any phrase, clause, sentence, paragraph, or section of this Code shall be declared unconstitutional by the valid judgment or decree of a court of competent jurisdiction, such unconstitutionality shall not affect any of the remaining phrases, clauses, sentences, paragraphs and sections of this Code. The sections, paragraphs, sentences, clauses and phrases of this Code are severable, and if any phrase, clause, sentence, paragraph or section of this Code shall be declared unconstitutional, invalid or otherwise unenforceable by the valid judgment or decree of any court of competent jurisdiction, that unconstitutionality, invalidity or unenforceability shall not affect any of the remaining phrases, clauses, sentences, paragraphs or sections of this Code, since they would have been enacted without the incorporation in this Code of the unconstitutional, invalid or unenforceable phrase, clause, sentence, paragraph or section.
Sec. 1-10. - Code does not affect prior offenses, rights, etc.
Nothing in this Code or the ordinance adopting this Code shall affect any offense or act committed or done, or any penalty or forfeiture incurred, or any contract or right established or accruing, or any prosecution, suit or proceeding pending or any judgment rendered, on or before the effective date of this Code. The adoption of this Code shall not be interpreted as authorizing or permitting any use or the continuance of any use of a structure or premises in violation of any ordinance or resolution in effect on the date of adoption of this Code.
Sec. 1-11. - Provisions considered as continuations of existing ordinances.
The provisions appearing in this Code, insofar as they are the same as those of ordinances and resolutions existing at the time of adoption of this Code, shall be considered as continuations thereof and not as new enactments.
Sec. 1-12. - Miscellaneous ordinances not affected by Code.
Nothing in this Code or the ordinance adopting this Code shall affect:
(1)
Promising or guaranteeing the payment of money or authorizing the issuance of bonds or other instruments of indebtedness.
(2)
Authorizing or approving any contract, deed, or agreement.
(3)
Granting any right or franchise.
(4)
Making or approving any appropriation or budget.
(5)
Providing for salaries or other employee benefits not codified in this Code.
(6)
Adopting or amending the comprehensive plan.
(7)
Levying or imposing any special assessment.
(8)
Dedicating, establishing, naming, locating, relocating, opening, paving, widening, repairing or vacating any street, sidewalk or alley.
(9)
Any ordinance dedicating, accepting or approving any plat or subdivision.
(10)
Any ordinance providing traffic regulations for specific areas, such as no-parking zones, stop intersections, etc., not in conflict with this Code.
(11)
Levying taxes that are not codified in this Code.
(12)
Adopting or amending specifications water, sewers, streets and other public improvements.
(13)
Rezoning specific property.
(14)
Adopted for purposes which have been consummated.
(15)
That is temporary, although general in effect, or special, although permanent in effect.
