ARTICLE III. - ZONING DISTRICTS ESTABLISHED; ZONING MAP

Sec. 118-65. - Districts established.
(a)
Generally. For the purposes of this chapter, the city is divided into the following districts:
EXPAND
A-R Agricultural-residential
R-1, R-2, R-3 Single-family residential
P-M Planned development-mixed use
P-R Planned development-residential
R-O Office-residential
C-2 Commercial-general highway
I-N Institutional
M-1 Manufacturing-light
  (b)
Overlay districts. In addition, overlay districts apply additional standards to specific areas which may lie within any of the districts in subsection (a) of this section. Those districts are as follows: S-2, sensitive land-watershed protection.
(Ord. of 10-1-1996, § 301; Res. of 7-19-2005, § 3; Res. of 5-17-2005, § 1; Ord. No. 2007-2, § 1, 3-21-2007)
Sec. 118-66. - Districts explained.
(a)
Districts are areas of land within the city to which different development requirements and standards are applied. These differences are intended to promote the separation of incompatible uses, encourage sound land use patterns, and retain the character of the community. Although this chapter establishes the locations of district boundaries, as indicated on the official map, the boundaries may be amended in the future in order to meet changing needs if facts are presented and accepted in support of such an amendment.
(b)
This may be done, however, only if the proposed change is in conformance with the city land use plan. (This does not necessarily mean a one-to-one correspondence.) If conditions have changed to the point that a genuinely needed change in a district boundary is not in conformance with the city land use plan, then the city land use plan must first be amended to address the changing needs.
(c)
In making the decision to amend the boundary of a district, the points contained in section 118-5 must be considered by the planning commission as well as the mayor and council.
(Ord. of 10-1-1996, § 302)
Sec. 118-67. - Official zoning map.
The Official Zoning Map, City Of Milner, Georgia, is hereby designated to be this section. Any reference to the "official map" in this chapter refers to the Official Zoning Map, City Of Milner, Georgia. On November 9, 2011, the "Zoning Map of Milner, Georgia" was re-adopted to reflect map amendments which have occurred since its adoption.
(Ord. of 10-1-1996, § 2301; Ord. No. 11-6, § 2, 11-9-2011)
Sec. 118-68. - Identification, alteration, and replacement of the official map.
(a)
The official map is signed by the mayor of the mayor and council, and bears the seal of the city or that of a notary public under the following words: "This certifies that this is the Official Zoning Map, City Of Milner, Georgia, referred to in section 118-67, together with the date of adoption of the ordinance from which this chapter is derived.
(b)
The official map may be altered only if the proposed alterations are in conformance with the city land use plan (this does not necessarily mean a one-to-one correspondence) and sound comprehensive planning principles. Any alteration of the official map is an amendment to this chapter. The procedure by which amendments are proposed and approved is contained in section 118-5. Any amendment involving changes in zoning district boundaries must be entered on the official map as soon as the amendment has been approved by the mayor and council. The entry must be as follows: "On (date) by official action of the mayor and council of the City Of Milner the following change (or changes) were made in the Official Zoning Map, City Of Milner, Georgia: (Brief description of change)." It must be signed by the mayor or the mayor and council. No amendment to portions of this chapter that are illustrated on the official map becomes effective until after the change has been entered as described in this subsection on the official map.
(c)
Alterations to the official map may be made only by the procedures contained in this section and section 118-5. Any unauthorized alteration of the official map by any person is a violation of this chapter.
(d)
The official map shall be on display in the office of the administrative officer, and is the final authority as to the current status of zoning district boundaries.
(e)
If the official map becomes damaged, destroyed, lost, or difficult to interpret because of the nature or number of changes and additions, the mayor and council may adopt a new official map which will replace the previous official map. The new official map is identified as such in the same manner as described in this section. When the new official map is adopted, a notation must be made on the previous official map that it is no longer valid, indicating the date that the new official map was adopted, as a reference aid. The previous official map should be preserved, if it has not been lost or destroyed, for possible future reference.
(Ord. of 10-1-1996, § 2302)
Sec. 118-69. - Zoning district designation for additional land annexed to city.
(a)
Whenever additional land is annexed to the city, the mayor and council will receive a request for annexation as provided by O.C.G.A. title 36, ch. 36 (O.C.G.A. § 36-36-1 et seq.). The applicant for annexation will also apply for an amendment to this chapter assigning a zoning designation under this chapter for the subject property should it be annexed.
(b)
All applications for annexation/zoning amendment must first be reviewed by the planning commission. The planning commission will study the proposed annexation/amendment and determine if it meets the requirements of this chapter, as well as other applicable ordinances of the city. At this time, the administrative officer may review the proposed annexation/amendment and make written recommendations to the planning commission.
(c)
Approving a zoning district designation for annexed property and adding the subject property to the official map involves amendment to this chapter and alteration of the official map. The procedures contained in sections 118-5 and 118-68 must be followed in handling such an amendment request.
(d)
The planning commission will formulate its recommendations and transmit the recommendation to the mayor and council on the amendment and the annexation request, recording them in the minutes for that meeting within 30 days of close of the meeting, stating reasons for its recommendations. The planning commission will be deemed to have approved the application in the event its recommendations is not timely made.
(e)
The administrative officer must post a sign at least two feet by three feet in size in a conspicuous place on the property at least 15 days but not more than 45 days prior to the date of the scheduled public hearing. The sign must set forth the fact that it is a public hearing. It must show the present zoning classification, the proposed zoning classification, date, time, and place of the scheduled public hearing. A notice of the hearing must be published in a newspaper of general circulation in the county at least 15 days but not more than 45 days before the hearing. Contents of the notice shall include the following: location of the property, present zoning classification, the proposed zoning classification, and the date, time and place of the public hearing and it must inform the public that additional information may be obtained from the administrative officer. (Note: this public hearing will be conducted by the mayor and council.)
(f)
After reviewing the record of the public hearing and considering recommendations, the mayor and council will then make an official decision on the proposed amendment. The decision may or may not concur with the recommendations. This decision will be recorded in the official minutes of the meeting.
(g)
If the application for amendment to set a zoning designation for the subject property is not approved by the mayor and council, then no action on the application for annexation will be taken, since the zoning designation of property proposed to be annexed must first be set according to minimum required policies and procedures before property may be annexed. The applicant may then reapply for another zoning district amendment for an alternative zoning designation if he so desires.
(h)
If the mayor and council approves the amendment for zoning designation of the subject property, they will then make a decision on the annexation request. This decision will be recorded in the official minutes of the meeting.
(i)
If the mayor and council deny the annexation request, the approval of the amendment for zoning designation of the subject property becomes void. A minimum period of 12 months must pass before the same amendment/annexation proposal is again submitted for consideration.
(j)
If the annexation request is approved, the official map will be changed. Procedures specified in section 118-68 must be followed in doing this.
(k)
Decisions of the mayor and council may be appealed on points of law to the county superior court. Findings of fact, however, may not be appealed.
(Ord. of 10-1-1996, § 2304)
Sec. 118-70. - Zoning district boundaries.
Where uncertainty exists with respect to the exact location of the boundary of a zoning district shown on the official map, the following guidelines will be used in establishing the exact location of the boundary:
(1)
Where a zoning district boundary line as appearing on the official map divides a single lot that was a single lot at the time of the enactment of the ordinance from which this chapter is derived, the requirements for the zoning district in which the greater portion of the lot lies must be extended to the balance of the lot.
(2)
Where a zoning district boundary is indicated as approximately following a municipal boundary, the line or lines extended is the boundary.
(3)
Where a zoning district boundary is indicated as approximately following a property line or such line extended, the line or lines extended is the boundary.
(4)
Where a zoning district boundary is indicated as approximately following the centerline of a streambed, such a centerline is the boundary.
(5)
Where a zoning district boundary is indicated as approximately parallel to the centerline of a street, road, railroad, or the right-of-way of such a facility, the zoning district boundary is parallel to the line and at a distance from it as indicated by scale on the official map.
(Ord. of 10-1-1996, § 2305)
Sec. 118-71. - Relationship between official map and city land use plan.
(a)
The city land use plan was prepared by the planning commission and adopted by the mayor and council of the city. It should provide the best possible indication of desirable land use patterns that will meet projected future demand for land uses of various types. The city land use plan supplies a body of information on which decisions on future development may be made that are guided by sound planning principles. The plan does not legally regulate land uses. It contains a land use map, which shows suitable areas for various types of land uses. Actual land uses may not necessarily conform to the land use map.
(b)
The zoning districts contained on the official map carry standards which must be met by all new development and construction. The arrangements of zoning districts is based on land use information contained in the city land use plan. Establishment and amendment of zoning district boundaries must be in conformance with the city land use plan. (This does not necessarily mean a one-to-one correspondence.) This assures that such amendments to the official map are based on defensible findings of fact as well as sound comprehensive planning principles.
(Ord. of 10-1-1996, § 2306)
Secs. 118-72—118-100. - Reserved.
