Chapter 106 - BUILDINGS AND BUILDING REGULATIONS[1]
ARTICLE I. - IN GENERAL

Sec. 106-1. - Permit and inspection fees.
The fees to be paid to the city for permits and inspections required by the state construction codes shall be as established by the city.
Secs. 106-2—106-10. - Reserved.
ARTICLE II. - ADOPTION OF STATE CODES[2]

Sec. 106-11. - Adoption of state building, construction and other codes.
(a)
The City of Milner adopts the following minimum standard codes:
(1)
International Building Code (ICC);
(2)
National Electrical Code (NFPA);
(3)
International Fuel Gas Code (ICC);
(4)
International Mechanical Code (ICC);
(5)
International Plumbing Code (ICC);
(6)
International Residential Code for One- and Two- Family Dwellings (ICC);
(7)
International Energy Conservation Code (ICC);
(8)
International Fire Code (ICC);
(9)
International Existing Building Code (ICC);
(10)
International Property Maintenance Code (ICC).
(b)
The codes adopted in section 106-11 (a) shall mean such codes identified in O.C.G.A. § 8-2-23(B)(i) as they exist as of September 1, 2007, or subsequent amendments to such codes as may be adopted by the State of Georgia after such date.
(Ord. No. 2007-11, § 2, 11-21-07)
Secs. 106-12—106-15. - Reserved.
ARTICLE III. - HOUSING[3]

Sec. 106-16. - Unsafe housing abatement.
(a)
Definitions. For purposes of this section, the definitions of terms set forth in O.C.G.A. § 41-2-8 are adopted by the City of Milner, as if fully set forth herein.
(b)
Duty of owner. It shall be the duty of the owner of each dwelling, building structure or property located within the City of Milner to construct and maintain such dwelling, building, structure or property in conformance with any and all applicable codes adopted by the State of Georgia, as set forth in O.C.G.A. § 8-2-20(9) (A) (i) and any code adopted by the City of Milner as set forth in this Code, section 106-11.
(c)
Public officer. The city administrator of the City of Milner, Georgia or his designee shall be authorized to exercise the powers set forth in this section.
(d)
Request for investigation. When a request is filed by a public authority or at least five residents of the city charging or alleging that any dwelling, building or structure is unfit for human habitation or for commercial, industrial or business use and/or is not in compliance with applicable codes, is vacant and being used in connection with the commission of drug crimes or otherwise constitutes an endangerment to the public health or safety as a result of unsanitary or unsafe conditions, the city administrator or his designee shall make an investigation or inspection of the specific dwelling, building or structure.
(e)
Result of investigation or inspection. If the investigation or inspection conducted by or caused to be conducted by the city administrator pursuant to subsection (d) above identified that any dwelling, building, structure or property is unfit for human habitation or for commercial, industrial or business use and not in compliance with applicable codes; is vacant and being used in connection with the commission of drug crimes; or constitutes an endangerment to the public health or safety as a result of unsanitary or unsafe conditions, the city administrator or his designee may issue a complaint in rem against the lot, tract or parcel of real property on which such dwelling, building or structure is situated or where such public health hazard or general nuisance exists and shall cause summons and a copy of the complaint to be served on the interested parties for such dwelling, building or structure.
(f)
Contents of complaint. The complaint initiated by the city administrator or his designee shall identify the subject real property by appropriate street address and official tax map reference; identify the interested parties, state with particularity the factual basis for the action; and contain a statement of the action sought by the city administrator or his designee to abate the alleged nuisance or condition. The summons shall notify the interested parties that a hearing will be held before a court of competent jurisdiction as determined by O.C.G.A. § 41-2-5 at a date and time certain and at a place within the City of Milner, Georgia or Lamar County. The summons shall be served on interested parties as required by O.C.G.A. § 41-2-12. Such hearing shall be held not less than 15 days nor more than 45 days after the filing of the complaint with the proper court. Any interested party shall have the right to file an answer to the complaint and to appear in person or by attorney and offer testimony at the time and place fixed for the hearing.
(g)
Judicial determination; contents of order. If, after notice and hearing required by subsection (f), the court determines that the dwelling, building or structure in question is unfit for human habitation or is unfit for its current commercial, industrial or business use and not in compliance with applicable codes; is vacant and being used in connection with the commission of drug crimes; or constitutes an endangerment to the public health or safety as a result of unsanitary or unsafe conditions, the court shall state in writing findings of fact in support of such determination and shall issue and cause to be served upon the interested parties that have answered the complaint or appeared at the hearing an order:
(1)
If repair, alteration or improvement of the dwelling, building or structure can be made at a reasonable cost in relation to the present value of the dwelling, building or structure, requiring the owner, within the time specified in the order, to repair, alter, or improve such dwelling, building or structure so as to bring it into full compliance with the applicable codes relevant to the cited violation and, if applicable, to secure the dwelling, building or structure so that it cannot be used in connection with the commission of drug crimes; or
(2)
If the repair, alteration or improvement of the dwelling, building or structure in order to bring it into full compliance with applicable codes relevant to the cited violations cannot be made at a reasonable cost in relation to the present value of the dwelling, building or structure, requiring the owner within the time specified in the order to demolish and remove such dwelling, building or structure and all debris from the property.
(3)
In making its determination of the "reasonable cost in relation to the present value of the dwelling, building or structure," the court shall not consider the value of the land on which the structure is situated; provided, however that costs of the preparation necessary to repair, alter or improve a dwelling, building or structure may be considered. Income and financial status of the owner shall not be considered. The present value of the dwelling, building or structure and the costs of repair, alteration or improvements may be established by affidavit of real estate appraisers with a Georgia appraiser classification as provided in Chapter 39A of Title 43, qualified building contractors or qualified building inspectors without actual testimony being presented. Costs of repair, alteration or improvement of the structure shall be the cost necessary to bring the structure into compliance with the applicable codes relevant to the cited violations.
(h)
Owner's failure to comply with order. If the owner fails to comply with an order to repair or demolish the dwelling, building or structure, the city administrator or his designee may cause such dwelling, building or structure to be repaired, altered or improved or to be vacated, closed or demolished. Such abatement action shall commence within 270 days after the expiration of the time specified in the order for abatement by the owner. Any time during which such action is prohibited by a court order issued pursuant to O.C.G.A. § 41-2-13 or any other equitable relief granted by a court of competent jurisdiction shall not be counted toward the 270 days in which such abatement action must commence. The city administrator or his designee shall cause to be posted on the main entrance of the dwelling, building or structure a placard with the following words:
"This building is unfit for human habitation or commercial, industrial or business use and does not comply with the applicable codes or has been ordered secured to prevent its use in connection with drug crimes or constitutes an endangerment to public health or safety as a result of unsanitary or unsafe conditions. The use or occupation of this building is prohibited and unlawful."
(i)
Credit for demolition materials. If the city administrator or his designee cause the structure to be demolished, reasonable effort shall be made to salvage reusable materials for credit against the cost of demolition. The proceeds of any moneys received from the sale of salvaged materials shall be used or applied against the cost of the demolition and removal of the structure, and proper records shall be kept showing application of sale proceeds. Any such sale of salvaged materials may be made without the necessity of public advertisement and bid. The city administrator or his designee and the governing authority are relieved of any and all liability resulting from or occasioned by the sale of any such salvaged materials, including, without limitation, defects in such salvaged materials.
(j)
Lien for cost of demolition. The amount of the cost of demolition, including all court costs, appraisal fees, administrative costs incurred by the county tax commissioner or municipal tax collector or city revenue officer, and all other costs necessarily associated with the abatement action, including restoration to grade of the real property after demolition, shall be a lien against the real property upon which such cost was incurred.
(k)
Attachment of lien. The lien provided for in subsection (j) of this section shall attach to the real property upon the filing of a certified copy of the order requiring repair, closure or demolition in this Office of the Clerk of Superior Court of Lamar County, Georgia and shall relate back to the date of the filing of the lis pendens notice required by O.C.G.A. § 41-2-12(c). The clerk shall record and index such certified copy of the order in the deed records of Lamar County and shall enter the lien on the general execution docket. The lien shall be superior to all other liens on the property, except liens for taxes to which the lien shall be inferior and shall continue in force until paid.
(l)
Statement of costs and fees. Upon final determination of costs, fees and expenses incurred in accordance with this section, the city administrator or his designee shall transmit to the city revenue officer a statement of the total amount due and secured by said lien, together with copies of all notices provided to interested parties. The statement of the city administrator or his designee shall be transmitted within 90 days of completion of the repairs, demolition or closure. It shall be the duty of the city revenue officer to collect the amount of the lien using all methods available for collecting real property ad valorem taxes, including specifically Chapter 4 of Title 48; provided, however, that the limitation of O.C.G.A. § 48-4-78 which requires 12 months of delinquency before commencing a tax foreclosure shall not apply. The Lamar County Tax Commissioner shall collect and enforce municipal liens imposed pursuant to this section in accordance with O.C.G.A. § 48-5-359.1. The Lamar County Tax Commissioner shall remit the amount collected to the City of Milner, Georgia.
(m)
Enforcement/redemption of lien. The lien authorized by this section may be enforced pursuant to the provisions of O.C.G.A. § 41-2-9(3). The redemption amount in any enforcement proceeding authorized by this section shall be pursuant to § 41-2-9(4).
(Ord. No. 2007-12, § 1, 11-21-07)
Sec. 106-17. - Display of street address numbers.
(a)
Existing structures and locations. Every existing house, mobile home, apartment, commercial structure, location or other building or structure having a street address number assigned to it under the system of numbering in the City of Milner is encouraged to display such house number in a manner readily legible and visible by emergency personnel from the adjacent road or street. Signs are available on a voluntary basis from the Lamar County Fire Department for a fee.
(b)
New structures and remodeling/renovation of existing structures. Every new or remodeled/renovated house, mobile home, apartment, commercial structure, location or other building or structure that requires obtaining a building permit under Section 118-35 of the Milner City Code, or other applicable code section, after the adoption of this section and having a street address number assigned to it under the system of numbering in the City of Milner, shall, in addition to any other permitting fees, be assessed a fee in an amount set from time to time by the City sufficient to cover the purchase and installation of a display sign for such address number in a manner readily legible and visible to emergency personnel from the adjacent road or street.
(Ord. No. 2018-03, § 1, 8-20-2018)
