Chapter 51 - TIMBER OPERATIONS

Sec. 51-01. - Title.
This chapter shall be known as the "Dade County Timber Ordinance".
(Ord. of 2005, § I)
Sec. 51-02. - Purpose and intent.
The purpose of this chapter is to provide procedures, rules and regulations governing persons and businesses engaged in timber harvesting operations in the county so as to protect its citizens and environment and to assure the public safety.
(Ord. of 2005, § II)
Sec. 51-03. - Definitions.
The following words, terms and phrases, when used in this chapter, shall have the meanings ascribed to them in this section, except where the context clearly indicates a different meaning.
Board means the county board of commissioners, and successors in office, being the governing authority of the county.
County means Dade County, Georgia.
Harvesting operations means buying, selling, cutting, harvesting and/or hauling standing timber in the county, for delivery as pulpwood, logs, poles, posts, or wood chips.
Public property means any property either owned in fee simple or otherwise titled or held by the county, including roads, ditches, bridges, and rights-of-way.
Timber means softwood or hardwood trees.
Timber harvesting operator means any person, firm, business, company, corporation or other legal entity engaged in buying, selling, cutting, harvesting and/or hauling standing timber in the county.
(Ord. of 2005, § III)
Sec. 51-04. - Notification required.
modified
All persons or firms harvesting standing timber in any unincorporated area of the county for delivery as pulpwood, logs, poles, posts, or wood chips to any wood yard or processing plant located inside or outside the state shall provide written notice for each separate tract to be harvested of such harvesting of operations to the county prior to harvesting any such timber.
(Ord. of 2005, § IV; Ord. No. 11-05-20 , 11-5-2020)
Sec. 51-05. - Forms and content of notice.
modified
The required notice shall be only in such form as prescribed by the state forestry commission, and shall contain the following:
(1)
A map of the area which identifies the location of the tract to be harvested and, as to those trucks which will be traveling to and from such tract for purposes of picking up and hauling loads of cut forest products, the main point of ingress to such tract from a public road and, if different, the main point of egress from such tract to a public road;
(2)
A statement as to whether the timber will be removed pursuant to a lump sum sale, per unit sale, or owner harvest for purposes of ad valorem taxation under O.C.G.A. § 48-5-7.5;
(3)
The name, address, and daytime telephone number of the timber seller if the harvest is pursuant to a lump sum or per unit sale or of the timber owner if the harvest is an owner harvest; and
(4)
The name, business address, business telephone number, and nighttime or emergency telephone number of the person or firm harvesting such timber.
(Ord. of 2005, § V; Res. No. R-14-10, 6-3-2010; Ord. No. 11-05-20 , 11-5-2020)
Sec. 51-06. - Delivery of notice.
modified
(a)
Notice may be submitted in person, by transmission of an electronic record via telefacsimile, e-mail, or such other means as approved by the county, or by mail; and
(b)
Notice shall be effective for such harvesting operation on such tract within such unincorporated area of the county or upon receipt of the same by the applicable governing authority or its designated agent and, if applicable, compliance with the requirements of section 51-08 below and until such time as the person or firm giving such notice has completed the harvesting operation for such tract; provided, however, that any subsequent change in the facts required to be provided for purposes of such notice shall be reported to the governing authority or its designated agent within three (3) business days after such change.
(Ord. of 2005, § VI; Ord. No. 11-05-20 , 11-5-2020)
Sec. 51-07. - Duties of the timber harvesting operator.
(a)
No persons or firms engaged in harvesting operations shall allow dirt, mud, or other debris resulting from harvesting operations to accumulate in ditches and drainage areas on public rights-of-way to such an extent that the usual flow of water or runoff is stopped, disturbed, changed or interrupted.
(b)
No equipment, trucks, or trailers, which are part of the harvesting operations shall be left unattended or parked in any public road or right-of-way.
(c)
All persons or firms conducting harvesting operations shall display a minimum of four (4) warning signs, two (2) in each direction, on the road entrance of the harvesting operation. Two (2) signs, one (1) in each direction, shall be located five hundred (500) feet in each direction from the operation entrance and shall provide notice of logging operations ahead and/or that slow traffic is entering the highway. Two (2) signs, one (1) in each direction, shall be located one thousand (1,000) feet in each direction from the operation entrance also providing notice of logging operations ahead and/or that slow traffic is entering the highway. Each sign shall be at least thirty-six (36) inches by thirty-six (36) inches, orange in color, and shall be posted at least three (3) feet from the travel surface of the applicable roadway.
(d)
All harvesting operations shall be conducted at a load site off the county right-of-way and behind the established ditch line of county roads.
(e)
Loading or skidding of logs will not be permitted on county roads.
(f)
County roads at the harvesting operations entrance shall be kept serviceable at all times for the passing public, emergency vehicles, school buses, mail carriers, and other users of the public rights-of-way.
(g)
The timber harvesting operator shall maintain and ensure that the public property is returned to a state at least equal to that existing immediately prior to the instituting of the harvesting operations.
(h)
The timber harvesting operator shall give the county written notice within seventy-two (72) hours after the completion of the harvesting operation. If it is determined by the county that the public property used by the harvesting operation is not in an at least an equal condition to that existing immediately prior to the instituting of the harvesting operations, then the county shall provide written notice to the timber harvesting operator specifying the repair actions needing to be taken by the person or firms engaged in the harvesting operation. The timber harvesting operator shall complete all repairs within fifteen (15) days from the date of such notice.
(i)
If the necessary repairs to the public property are not completed within the required period of time, or if the said repairs are not in accordance with applicable standards and acceptable to the county, the county may proceed to remedy said defects in accordance with applicable specifications and requirements using the proceeds from any surety bond or letter of credit to pay for such work. The timber harvesting operator shall be responsible and liable for all costs in excess of the surety bond or letter of credit.
(Ord. of 2005, § VII; Ord. No. 03-05-09, 3-5-2009)
Sec. 51-08. - Bond or letter of credit required.
modified
(a)
All persons or firms subject to such notice requirement are required to deliver a bond or letter of credit as provided by this subparagraph, in which case notice shall not be or remain effective for such harvesting operations unless and until the person or firm providing such notice has delivered to county a valid surety bond, executed by a surety corporation authorized to transact business in this state, protecting the county against any damage caused by such person or firm in the amount of five thousand dollars ($5,000.00) or, at the option of the person or firm harvesting timber, a valid irrevocable letter of credit issued by a bank or savings and loan association, as defined in O.C.G.A. § 7-1-4, in the amount of and in lieu of such bond. Such bonds or letters of credit shall be subject to the conditions set forth in subsection (d) of this paragraph. No more than one (1) bond shall be required from each person or firm harvesting timber regardless of the number of tracts harvested in the county by each such person or firm so long as the bond remains in effect. For purposes of this subparagraph, any such surety bond or letter of credit shall be valid only for the calendar year in which delivered.
(b)
Such bond or letter of credit shall be for the purposes of protecting the county against any damage requiring re-ditching or repair of existing ditch structure or the removal of any harvesting residue, including tree tops, debris logs, pulpwood, and other materials, placed in or around rights-of-way caused by such person or firm tendering the bond or letter of credit, and the proceeds of such bond or letter of credit shall be available to reimburse the county for any cost incurred to repair such damages in or around county rights-of-way. The proceeds of such bond or letter of credit shall also be available to reimburse the county for any cost incurred to maintain or repair county roads damaged by the ingress or egress of motor vehicles engaged in harvest operations located within five hundred (500) feet of any point of ingress or egress of the timber harvesting operation. The right of a county to call such bond or letter of credit in accordance with the provisions of this Code section shall be in addition to any other remedies available to the county at law or in equity for damage to county roads or rights-of-way.
(c)
When damage results from a person or firm's harvesting activities, the county shall make a written claim to the person or firm causing the damage within thirty (30) business days after the county becomes aware of the damage. Such claim may be given in person, by transmission of an electronic record via telefacsimile, or email, or by mail. Such claim shall describe the damage in detail and give the person or firm the opportunity to repair such damage within thirty (30) days of the notification. The county shall be authorized to repair the damage immediately if the county determines the conditions present a threat to public safety, health, or welfare and, upon making such repairs, shall present to the person or firm an itemized list of expenses incurred as a claim against the responsible party and the issuer of its bond or letter of credit. If the damage in question has not been repaired by or on behalf of the person or firm, then the county shall be authorized to call such bond or letter of credit for payment of any cost the county incurs or will incur to repair such damages, and additional remedies set forth in this paragraph shall remain available. Within thirty (30) days of the receipt of the written notification from the county required by this subparagraph, the person or firm may:
(1)
Repair such damage at their own expense with the approval and supervision of the county. When repairs are completed to the satisfaction of the county, the county shall provide the person or firm with written notification of such satisfactory completion within five (5) business days;
(2)
In the event of inclement weather or other factors preventing repair of the damage, request a 30-day extension to repair the damage from the governing authority, provided that no such extension shall exceed ninety (90) days. Approval of such extensions shall be in the discretion of the governing authority; or
(3)
Appeal any adverse decision of the governing authority to the magistrate court of the county in which the damage occurred. The magistrate court will hear arguments within thirty (30) days of the written appeal and render a ruling within ten (10) days of such hearing. Any such appeal shall toll the 30-day period, or any extension thereof, provided for in subsection (c) of this section. Should the person or firm receive a favorable ruling from the magistrate court, the governing authority shall have no claim against the bond or letter of credit. Should the person or firm in question receive an unfavorable ruling from the magistrate court, the governing authority shall be authorized to call the bond or letter of credit for reimbursement, not to exceed the bond or letter of credit amount, of costs incurred in repairing the damage.
(d)
If a person or firm tendering the bond or letter of credit, or any agent, employee, or contractor of such person or firm, causes a bond or letter of credit to be revoked, then a valid replacement bond or letter of credit shall be obtained by the person or firm and delivered to the county, no later than the close of business five (5) business days after the date of revocation of the prior bond or letter of credit. The county shall be authorized to increase such bond or letter of credit by two thousand five hundred dollars ($2,500.00) after each instance of revocation of a bond or letter of credit, provided that the total bond amount shall not exceed ten thousand dollars ($10,000.00) as to any original bond or letter of credit.
(Ord. No. 03-05-09, 3-5-2009; Ord. No. 11-05-20 , 11-5-2020)
Sec. 51-09. - Duration of notice.
Notice shall be effective for such harvesting operation on such tract within the county upon receipt of the same by the county and compliance with the requirements of § 51.08 until such time as the person or firm giving such notice has completed the harvesting operation for such tract; provided, however, that any subsequent change in the facts required to be provided for purposes of such notice shall be reported to the county within three (3) business days after such change.
(Ord. of 2005, § VIII; Ord. No. 03-05-09, 3-5-2009)
Sec. 51-10. - Violation; penalties.
modified
Any violation of the provisions of this article shall constitute a misdemeanor and shall be punishable by penalties and costs as set forth in section 1-19 of this Code, except that violation of the notice requirements of this chapter shall be punishable by a fine not exceeding one thousand five hundred dollars ($1,500.00) for each violation.
(Ord. of 2005, § IX; Ord. No. 03-05-09, 3-5-2009; Ord. No. 11-05-20 , 11-5-2020)
