Chapter 22 - CIVIL EMERGENCIES[1]
Footnotes:
--- (1) ---
Cross reference— Administration, ch. 2.
State Law reference— Georgia Emergency Management Act of 1981, O.C.G.A. § 38-3-1 et seq.; interstate Civil Defense and Disaster Compact, O.C.G.A. § 38-3-70 et seq.

ARTICLE I. - IN GENERAL

Sec. 22-1. - Definitions.
The following words, terms and phrases, when used in this chapter, shall have the meanings ascribed to them in this section, except where the context clearly indicates a different meaning:
Emergency management means the preparation for and the carrying out of all emergency and disaster functions, other than those functions for which military forces or state and federal agencies are primarily responsible, to prevent, minimize and repair injury and damage resulting from emergencies or disasters, or the imminent threat thereof, of manmade or natural origin. These functions include, without limitation, firefighting services, police services, medical and health services, rescue, engineering, warning services, communications, protection against the effects of radiological, chemical and other special weapons, evacuation of persons from stricken areas, emergency welfare services, emergency transportation, plant protection, shelter, temporary restoration of public utility services and other functions related to civilian population, together with all other activities necessary or incidental to total emergency and disaster preparedness for carrying out the functions listed in this definition.
(Res. of 12-2-1991, § I)
Cross reference— Definitions generally, § 1-2.
Secs. 22-2—22-30. - Reserved.
ARTICLE II. - EMERGENCY MANAGEMENT AGENCY[2]

Footnotes:
--- (2) ---
State Law reference— Restrictions on operation, installation, maintenance, etc., of electronic security systems by counties and municipalities, O.C.G.A. § 36-60-12; Georgia Emergency Telephone Number 911 Service Act of 1977, O.C.G.A. § 46-5-120 et seq.

Sec. 22-31. - Established; duties.
In agreement with the governing officials of the cities within the county, there is established the Trenton/Dade County Emergency Management Agency. The county commissioner, with concurrence of the mayor of the City of Trenton, shall nominate for appointment by the governor, a director of emergency management for the entire county. When appointed, the emergency management director is charged with the following duties:
(1)
Represent the governing officials of the county and cities therein on matters pertaining to emergency management.
(2)
Assist county and city officials in organizing county and city departments for emergency operations.
(3)
Develop, in conjunction with county and city departments, the Trenton/Dade County plan for emergency functions. Such plan will be in consonance with the state natural disaster operations plan and nuclear emergency operations plan, and shall be submitted to the governing officials of the county and the City of Trenton for approval, and thence to the state emergency management agency for approval.
(4)
Maintain the emergency management agency and carry out the day-to-day administration of the county emergency management program, including the submission of required reports to the state emergency management agency.
(5)
Submit reports as required by county and city governing officials in keeping with good management practices, e.g., financial, daily activity, etc.
(6)
Obtain, with the authority of county and city governing officials, a facility to be used as the Trenton/Dade County Emergency Operation Center.
(7)
Coordinate the activities of the county emergency operating center staff during periods of an emergency, and under the supervision of county governing officials.
(Res. of 12-2-1991, § II)
Sec. 22-32. - Department assignments.
The Trenton/Dade County Emergency Management Agency shall be established around existing county and city departments and the emergency functions listed in section 22-1 are assigned as follows:
EXPAND
Department/Agency Functions
(1) County commissioner ..... Direction and control
City of Trenton Mayor
(2) Sheriff's office ..... Communications and warning
Police department Police services
Evacuation
(3) Emergency management agency ..... Public information
State military support
Training
Preliminary damage assessment and reporting
Public property assistance
Attack preparedness
Specific hazards
(4) Fire departments ..... Search, rescue and recovery
Fire services
Hazardous materials
Radiological protection
(5) Public works ..... Engineering
Petroleum and solid fuel services
Utilities
(6) School superintendent ..... Transportation services
Food services
(7) Health department ..... Health and medical services
(8) Clerk's office ..... Administrative services
Resources management
(9) Department of family and children services ..... Social services
Shelter and temporary housing
  Heads of departments set forth in the table in this section are responsible for developing appropriate annexes to the local emergency operations plan (EOP) for their assigned emergency functions. Such annexes will be submitted to the emergency management director for inclusion in the local emergency operations plan for submission to appropriate local officials for approval.
(Res. of 12-2-1991, § III)
Sec. 22-33. - Powers during an emergency or disaster.
In the event of a manmade or natural disaster, actual enemy attack upon the United States or any other emergency which may affect the lives and property of the citizens of the county, the county commissioner jointly with the mayor of the City of Trenton, or in their absences their legally appointed successors, probate judge and vice-mayor, may determine that an emergency or disaster exists and thereafter shall have and may exercise for such period as such emergency or disaster exists or continues, the power to:
(1)
Enforce all rules, laws and regulations relating to emergency management, and to assume direct operational control over all emergency management resources;
(2)
Seize or take temporary use of any private property for the protection of the public;
(3)
Sell, lend, give or distribute all or any such property or supplies among the inhabitants of the county and to maintain a strict accounting of property or supplies distributed and for funds received for such property or supplies; and
(4)
Perform and exercise such other functions and duties, and take such emergency actions as may be necessary to promote and secure the safety, protection and well-being of the inhabitants of the county.
(Res. of 12-2-1991, § IV)
Sec. 22-34. - Compensation; volunteers.
All persons other than officers and employees of the county and cities therein, performing emergency functions pursuant to this chapter, shall serve with or without compensation. While engaged in such emergency functions, duly assigned volunteers shall have the same immunities as county and city officers and employees.
(Res. of 12-2-1991, § V)
Sec. 22-35. - Penalty.
Any person violating any provision of this chapter, or any rule, order or regulation made pursuant to this chapter, shall, upon conviction thereof, be punishable for committing a misdemeanor.
(Res. of 12-2-1991, § VI)
Secs. 22-36—22-40. - Reserved.
ARTICLE III. - NATIONAL INCIDENT MANAGEMENT SYSTEM (NIMS)

Sec. 22-41. - Adoption of NIMS.
The county hereby adopts the National Incident Management System (NIMS) as established under HSPD 5, and the Unified Command System as established under O.C.G.A. § 38-3-57, as its system of preparing for and responding to disaster incidents. The county directs all incident managers and response organizations in the county to train and exercise and use these systems in their response operations.
(Ord. No. 08-07-08(b), 8-7-2008)
Secs. 22-42—22-50. - Reserved.
ARTICLE IV. - EMERGENCY MANAGEMENT AND DISASTER RESPONSE

Sec. 22-51. - Declaration of local emergency and response powers.
(a)
Grant of authority. In the event of an actual or threatened occurrence of a disaster or emergency, which may result in the large-scale loss of life, injury, property damage or destruction or in the major disruption of routine community affairs, business or governmental operations in the county and which is of sufficient severity and magnitude to warrant extraordinary assistance by federal, state and local department and agencies to supplement the efforts of available public and private resources, the Chairperson/County Executive of Dade County may declare a local emergency for Dade County.
(b)
Request for state assistance. Consistent with a declaration of local emergency, the Chairperson/County Executive may request the Governor to provide assistance, provided that the disaster or emergency is beyond the capacity of the county to meet adequately, and state assistance is necessary to supplement local efforts to save lives and protect property, public health and safety, or to avert or lessen the threat of a disaster.
(c)
Continuation of declaration. The declaration of local emergency shall continue until the Chairperson/County Executive finds that the emergency condition no longer exist, at which time, the Chairperson/County Executive shall execute and file with the County Clerk a document marking the end of the state of emergency. No state or local emergency shall continue for longer than thirty (30) days, unless renewed by the Chairperson/County Executive. The Dade County Board of Commissioners may, by resolution, end a state of local emergency at any time.
(d)
Emergency powers. Following a declaration of emergency and during the continuance of such state of emergency, the Chairperson/County Executive is authorized to implement local emergency measures to protect life and property or to bring the emergency situation under control. In exercising this authority, the Chairperson/County Executive may cause to become effective any of the following sections of this chapters as appropriate: § 22-51 (closed or restricted areas and curfews); § 22-52 (overcharging for goods or services); and § 22-53 (registration of building and repair services).
(Ord. No. 05-01-11, § 1, 5-1-2011)
Sec. 22-52. - Closed or restricted areas and curfews during emergency.
(a)
To preserve, protect or sustain the life, health, welfare or safety of persons, or their property, within a designated area under a declaration of emergency, it shall be unlawful for any person to travel, loiter, wander or stroll in or upon the public streets, highways, roads, parks, or any other public place during a declared emergency between hours specified by the Chairperson/County Executive until the curfew is lifted.
(b)
To promote order, protect lives, minimize the potential for looting and other crimes, and facilitate recovery operations during an emergency, the Chairperson/County Executive shall have discretion to impose reentry restrictions on certain areas.
(c)
The provisions of this section shall not apply to persons acting in the following capacities:
(1)
Authorized and essential law enforcement personnel;
(2)
Authorized and essential health care providers;
(3)
Authorized and essential personnel of the county;
(4)
Authorized National Guard or federal military personnel;
(5)
Authorized and essential firefighters and essential emergency response personnel;
(6)
Authorized and essential personnel or volunteers working with or through the county emergency management agency (EMA);
(7)
Authorized and essential utility repair crews;
(8)
Citizens seeking to restore order to their homes or businesses while on their own property or place of business;
(9)
Other authorized and essential persons as designated by the EMA or Sheriff of Dade County.
(Ord. No. 05-01-11, § 2, 5-1-2011)
Sec. 22-53. - Registration of building and repair services.
(a)
In accordance with O.C.G.A. § 38-3-56, before the building, constructing, repairing, renovating or making improvements to any real property, including dwellings, homes, buildings, or structures or fixtures, and further including but not limited to the cutting or removing of trees, within an area in the unincorporated area of the county designated in a declared emergency or disaster, any person, firm, partnership, corporation or other entity must register with the Dade County Commission and secure a building permit that is to be posted at the work site. Each day any such entity does business in the unincorporated areas of the county without complying with this article constitutes a separate offense.
(b)
The cost of registration fees in a declared emergency or disaster is fixed at thirty-five dollars ($35.00) per annum. Registration is nontransferable.
(c)
When registering, any person, partnership, corporation or other entity making application must, under oath, compete an application, providing the following information:
(1)
Name of applicant;
(2)
Permanent address and phone number of applicant;
(3)
Applicant's Social Security number or federal Employer Identification number;
(4)
If applicant is a corporation, the state and date of incorporation;
(5)
Tag registration information for each vehicle to be used in the business;
(6)
List of cities and/or counties where the applicant has conducted business with the past twelve (12) months;
(7)
Georgia sales tax number or authorization;
(8)
Georgia business license number, if required;
(9)
Copy of license from the Secretary of State, if required;
(10)
Proof of maintenance of worker compensation insurance coverage as required under state law; and
(11)
An executed affidavit, in a form acceptable to the county, verifying compliance with the Systematic Alien Verification for Entitlements (SAVE) Program.
(d)
Nothing in this section is intended to require any person or other entity from performing any activity described in this section on a volunteer basis, and when no compensation for such services is expected or required.
(e)
This section shall become effective only upon a declaration of emergency by the Governor and a local declaration stating this section is in effect. Unless otherwise specified in the declaration of emergency or otherwise extended by the Board of Commissioners, the provisions of this section shall remain in effect during the state of emergency and for a subsequent recovery period of three (3) months.
(Ord. No. 05-01-11, § 3, 5-1-2011)
Sec. 22-54. - Overcharging for goods or services prohibited.
(a)
In order to preserve, protect, or sustain the life, health, or safety of persons or their property, it shall be unlawful during the duration of a state of emergency or subsequent recovery period in which the county has been designated as a disaster area, for any person, firm, or corporation located or doing business in the county to overcharge for any goods, materials, services or housing sold within the county.
(b)
The term overcharging as used in this section is defined as charging prices for goods, materials, services, or housing which are substantially in excess of the customary charges or in applicable cases substantially in excess of the supplier's or provider's costs for such goods, materials, services or housing. The existence of overcharging shall be presumed from a substantial increase in the price at which the goods, materials, services, or housing was offered in the usual course of business immediately prior to the onset of the emergency, but shall not include increases in costs to the supplier directly attributable to higher costs of materials, supplies, and labor costs resulting from the emergency.
(c)
The term subsequent recovery period as used in this section is defined as that period during which the disaster continues to cause disruptions in the disaster area, but shall not exceed six (6) months after the emergency declaration has been terminated by the Governor unless extended by official action of the governing authority of the county.
(Ord. No. 05-01-11, § 4, 5-1-2011)
Sec. 22-55. - Penalty.
Any violation of the provisions of this article shall constitute a misdemeanor and shall be punishable by penalties and costs as set forth in § 1-19 of this Code. In addition to other remedies, the county may institute an action for an injunction, mandamus, or other appropriate action or proceeding to correct or stop such violation.
(Ord. No. 05-01-11, § 5, 5-1-2011)
