ARTICLE I. - IN GENERAL

Sec. 2-1. - Regulations governing use of county vehicles.
The following regulations governing the use and operation of county-owned or county-leased vehicles shall be established:
(1)
There shall be placed on the front doors of both sides of county vehicles a sticker or other markings identifying the vehicle as being owned by the county.
(2)
There shall be no smoking of any tobacco products permitted in county vehicles.
(3)
County vehicles may be driven home only by those county employees who could reasonably be expected to provide emergency services after regular work hours. These employees shall include the 911 director, the director of public works, road supervisors, and such other employees as may be designated by the county commission.
(4)
It is expressly understood and intended that the regulations set forth in this section apply to all vehicles owned or leased by the county, but not for those vehicles assigned by the county commission exclusively for use by the sheriff's department.
(Res. R-03-07, 1-8-2007)
Sec. 2-2. - Smoking or other use of tobacco products on county property and vehicles.
(a)
Definitions. The following words, terms and phrases, when used in this chapter, shall have the meanings ascribed to them in this section, except where the context clearly indicates a different meaning:
County facility. Any building, office complex, office center, courthouse, civic center, auditorium, jail, or other enclosed structure, owned or otherwise under the exclusive control of the county. There is specifically included within this definition all county property within fifty (50) feet of the building or enclosed structure.
County vehicle. Any automobile, truck, van, or other motor vehicle designed primarily for on the road use and which is owned or otherwise under the exclusive control of the county.
Smoking. The burning of any tobacco product in a cigarette, cigar, or pipe of any type or kind.
Tobacco products. Any kind or type of tobacco, whether loose leaf, processed, or rolled, that is intended, packaged, or sold for the purpose of chewing, dipping, or smoking.
(b)
Prohibited acts. It shall be unlawful for any person to smoke or to otherwise use tobacco products in county facilities or county vehicles. Except, however, the Dade County Sheriff is authorized to designate one (1) or more specific locations within the confinement area of the county jail as a tobacco use area. Nothing in this section shall be construed to authorize tobacco use in any areas of the county jail accessible to members of the general public.
(c)
Violation; penalties. In addition to penalties which may be imposed under state law for the violation of O.C.G.A § 16-12-2, any violation of the provisions of this section shall constitute a misdemeanor and shall be punishable by penalties and costs as set forth in section 1-19 of this Code.
(Ord. No. 12-01-11, §§ 1—3, 12-1-2011)
Secs. 2-3—2-30. - Reserved.
