ARTICLE III. - AUTHORITIES AND BOARDS
DIVISION 1. - GENERALLY

Sec. 3.01. - [Filling of vacancies on hospital authority of Walker, Dade and Catoosa counties.]
(a)
Pursuant to the authority of subsection (d) of Code Section 31-7-72 of the O.C.G.A., the method of filling vacancies on the board of the hospital authority of Walker, Dade, and Catoosa counties shall be as provided in this act. This act shall apply to vacancies for unexpired and full terms. The governing authority of the county from which the member whose seat becomes vacant was selected shall submit to the board of the hospital authority a list of three eligible persons. The board at its next regular or special meeting shall select one of those three persons to fill the vacancy.
(b)
Notwithstanding the provisions of subsection (a) of this section, the next vacancy to occur on the board following the effective date of this Act for a seat held by an appointee from Dade County shall be filled in accordance with subsection (a) of this section from a list of three eligible persons submitted by the governing authority of Catoosa County and any subsequent vacancies in such seat shall be filled in accordance with subsection (a) of this section by the submission of a list of three eligible persons by the governing authority of Catoosa County.
(c)
The provisions of subsection (b) of this section shall not become effective if Dade County by not later than July 1, 2013:
(1)
Enters into an intergovernmental contract with the hospital authority and Walker and Catoosa counties pursuant to Code Section 31-7-85 of the O.C.G.A., under the terms of which Dade County agrees to make payments to the hospital authority in an amount equal to 20 percent of the annual principal and interest requirements of debt issued by the hospital authority for which the remaining 80 percent is similarly supported by agreements of Walker and Catoosa counties; and
(2)
Amends its resolution creating the hospital authority to increase the number of members of the board from nine members to ten members with one additional member to represent Catoosa County.
(1982 Ga. Laws, page 4531, § 1; 2013 Ga. Laws, page 4020, § 1)
Editor's note— Provisions previously found at O.C.G.A. § 88-1803, 1933, are now at O.C.G.A. § 31-7-72, 1981.
Secs. 3.02—3.20. - Reserved.
DIVISION 2. - BOARD OF EDUCATION[2]

Footnotes:
--- (2) ---
Editor's note— Printed in this division is [the] 1984 Ga. Laws, page 3575, as adopted by the Georgia General Assembly. Amendments to this act are indicated by parenthetical history notes following amended provisions. The absence of a history note indicates that the provision remains unchanged from the original act.

Sec. 3.21. - [Districts.]
(a)
The board of education of Dade County shall be composed of five members to be elected as provided in this act. For the purpose of electing members of the board of education, Dade County shall be divided into five education districts. Education Districts 1 through 4 shall be and correspond to those four numbered districts described in and attached to and made a part of this act and further identified as Plan Name: dadeccp l Plan Type: Local User: Shantee Administrator: Dade Co. Education District 5 shall be composed of the entire Dade County school district.
(b)
When used in such attachment, the terms 'Tract' and 'BG' (Block Group) shall mean and describe the same geographical boundaries as provided in the report of the Bureau of the Census for the United States decennial census of 2000 for the State of Georgia. The separate numeric designations in a Tract description which are underneath a 'BG' heading shall mean and describe individual Blocks within a Block Group as provided in the report of the Bureau of the Census for the United States decennial census of 2000 for the State of Georgia. Any part of Dade County not included in any such district described in that attachment shall be included within that district contiguous to such part which contains the least population according to the United States decennial census of 2000 for the State of Georgia. Any part of Dade County described in that attachment as being in a particular district shall nevertheless not be included within such district if such part is not contiguous to such district. Such noncontiguous part shall instead be included within that district contiguous to such part which contains the least population according to the United States decennial census of 2000 for the State of Georgia. Except as otherwise provided in the description of any district, whenever the description of such district refers to a named city, it shall mean the geographical boundaries of that city as shown on the census map for the United States decennial census of 2000 for the State of Georgia.
(1984 Ga. Laws, page 3575, § 1; 2004 Ga. Laws, page 3530, § 1)
Sec. 3.22. - [Election.]
There shall be one member of the board [of education] elected from each education district. A person may not offer as a candidate for election to the board from any education district other than from the education district in which he or she is a legal resident. The board member representing each education district shall be elected by the voters of the entire Dade County school district. Board members shall be elected by a majority vote of the registered voters casting ballots in an election.
(1984 Ga. Laws, page 3575, § 2)
Sec. 3.23. - [Candidate requirements.]
No person shall be eligible to offer for election to the board [of education] or serve thereon unless that person is at least 21 years of age, has been a resident of the state at least one year, and has been a resident of the territory embraced within the education district from which that person offers as a candidate for at least six months immediately preceding the date of the election. In the event a member moves his or her residence from the education district he or she represents, his or her place on the board shall immediately become vacant.
(1984 Ga. Laws, page 3575, § 3)
Sec. 3.24. - [Terms of office.]
(a)
The members of the board of education who were elected at the general election in November 2002 shall continue in office for the terms to which they were elected and until successors are elected and qualified as provided in this act. The members of the board of education who were elected at the general election in November 2000 shall continue in office for the terms to which they were elected and until successors are elected and qualified as provided in this act.
(b)
Successors to the members of the board of education of Dade County from Education Districts 3, 4, and 5 shall be elected at the state-wide general election in 2004. Such members shall take office on January 1 following their election for terms of four years and until their successors are elected and qualified.
(c)
Successors to the members of the board of education of Dade County from Education Districts 1 and 2 shall be elected at the state-wide general election in 2006. Such members shall take office on January 1 following their election for terms of four years and until their successors are elected and qualified.
(d)
Successors to members elected under subsections (b) and (c) of this section shall be elected at the state-wide general election next preceding the expiration of such terms of office and shall take office on January 1 following their election for terms of four years and until their successors are elected and qualified.
(e)
Education Districts 1, 2, 3, 4, and 5 as they existed on January 1, 2004, shall continue to be designated as Education Districts 1, 2, 3, 4, and 5, respectively, but as newly described under this act, and, on and after the effective date of this act, such members of the board serving from those former education districts shall be deemed to be serving from and representing their respective districts as newly described under this section.
(1984 Ga. Laws, page 3575, § 4; 2004 Ga. Laws, page 3530, § 2)
Sec. 3.25. - [Chairman; quorum; compensation.]
At the first meeting of the board [of education] in January, 1985, and at the January meeting biennially thereafter, the board shall elect one of their members as chairman to serve for a term of two years and such other officers as the board shall determine. Three members of the board shall constitute a quorum for the transaction of business. All members of the board shall be compensated as provided by general law.
(1984 Ga. Laws, page 3575, § 5; 1986 Ga. Laws, page 4767, § 1)
Sec. 3.26. - [Vacancy; powers.]
In the event any vacancy occurs on the Board of Education of Dade County, the remaining members of the board shall select a successor to serve for the unexpired term. In the event a vacancy occurs in the office of chairman of the board, the remaining members shall elect from one of their members a new chairman to serve for the unexpired term. The Board of Education of Dade County created by this act [division] shall be the successor to all the rights, powers, duties, and obligations of the old Board of Education of Dade County and shall be subject to all constitutional and statutory provisions relating to county boards of education not in conflict with this act [division].
(1984 Ga. Laws, page 3575, § 6)
Secs. 3.27—3.30. - Reserved.
DIVISION 3. - DEVELOPMENT AUTHORITY

Sec. 3.31. - Created, term of office, powers, etc.
A.
Created. There is hereby created a body corporate and politic in Dade County, Georgia, to be known as the Dade County Industrial Development Authority, which shall be an instrumentality of the State of Georgia and a public corporation and which in this amendment [division] is hereafter referred to as the "authority."
B.
[Terms of office.] The authority shall consist of six members to be elected by an election committee composed of the Commissioner of Roads and Revenues of Dade County; the Ordinary of Dade County, and the Mayor of Trenton, Georgia, for initial terms of two, four and six years, and thereafter for staggered terms of six years. At the time of election of the first members, the election committee shall elect two members for a two-year term, two members for a four-year term, and two members for a six-year term, and thereafter the terms of all members shall be six years. In the event a vacancy occurs for any reason, the election committee shall immediately elect a person to fill such vacancy for the unexpired term. A majority of the members shall constitute a quorum, but no action may be taken by the authority without the affirmative vote of a majority of a quorum present of the membership of the authority. The authority shall have power to elect their own chairman, assistant chairman and secretary from its membership. No member of the governing body of the City of Trenton, Georgia, nor of Dade County, Georgia, may be a member of said authority and only residents of Dade County, Georgia, shall be eligible members for said authority.
C.
Powers. The power of the authority shall include, but not be limited to, the power:
1.
To sue and be sued; to receive and administer gifts, grants and donations and administer trusts;
2.
To borrow money, to issue notes and revenue bonds, to execute trust agreements or indentures, and to sell, convey, lease, mortgage, pledge and assign any and all of its funds, property and income as security therefor;
3.
To contract with the City of Trenton, Dade County, and with other political subdivisions of the state and with the state and with the United States Government or with any department or agency of either and with private persons and corporations;
4.
To exercise any power granted by the laws of the State of Georgia to any public or private corporation performing similar functions, which is not in conflict with the Constitution and laws of the State of Georgia;
5.
To encourage and promote the expansion and development of industrial and commercial facilities in Dade County, Georgia, so as to relieve, insofar as possible, unemployment within its boundaries, and[,] to that end to acquire by purchase or gift any building or structure within the limits of said county suitable for and intended for use as a factory, mill, shop, processing plant, assembly plant, or fabricating plant including all necessary and appurtenant lands and appurtenances thereto, and all necessary or useful furnishings, machinery and equipment. Such acquisition may be through the acquisition of land and the construction thereon of a building or buildings or other structures and facilities useful or desirable in connection therewith, including the demolition of existing structures, or through the acquisition of an existing building and remodeling, renovating, reconstructing, furnishing and equipping of such building;
6.
No building acquired hereunder shall be operated by the authority but shall be leased or sold to one or more persons, firms or corporations. If sold, the purchase price may be paid at one time or in installments falling due in not more than thirty (30) years from the date of transfer or possession. The lessee or purchaser shall be required to pay all cost[s] of operating and maintaining the building or buildings and to pay rentals or installments sufficient, together with other revenues which may be pledged for the purpose, to retire all bonds, both principal and interest, and to pay all other expenses which the authority may have incurred in connection with the undertaking;
7.
To accumulate its funds from year to year and to invest accumulated funds in any manner that public funds of the State of Georgia or any of its political subdivisions may be invested;
8.
To designate officers to sign and act for the authority generally or in any specific manner;
9.
To do any and all acts and things necessary or convenient to accomplish the purpose and powers of the authority as herein stated;
10.
To appoint and select officers, agents and employees including engineers, architects, builders and attorneys, and to fix their compensation;
11.
To adopt, alter or repeal its own bylaws, rules and regulations governing the manner in which its business may be transacted and in which the power granted to it may be employed, as the authority may deem necessary or expedient in facilitating its business.
D.
Taxation. The property obligations and the interest on the obligations of the authority shall have the same immunity from taxation as the property obligations and interest on the obligations of Dade County, Georgia. The exemptions from taxation herein provided shall not include exemptions from sale and use taxes on property purchased by the authority or for use by the authority.
E.
[Issuance of bonds.] In order to finance any undertaking within the scope of its power or to refund any bonds then outstanding, the authority is hereby authorized to issue bonds, debentures and revenue bonds for the purpose of paying all or any part of the cost of any project of the authority; such revenue bonds shall be issued and validated under and in accordance with the applicable provisions of the laws of Georgia, as though such bonds had originally been authorized to be issued under the Revenue Certificate Law of 1937 (Ga. Laws 1937, page 761), as amended. The judgment of validation shall be final, conclusive and forever incontestable as to the validity of the bonds and the security for the payment thereof, as well as all other matters, both substantive and procedural, relative to their issuance, and any property, real or personal, of the authority may be pledged, mortgaged, conveyed, assigned, hypothecated or otherwise encumbered, including the creation of any security interest in any equipment or other property of the authority, as security for any lawful debt of the authority.
F.
Debts. The authority shall not be empowered or authorized in any manner to create any debt, liability or obligation against the State of Georgia or County of Dade.
G.
Property. Should said authority for any reason be dissolved, title to all property of every kind and nature, real and personal, held by the authority at the time of such dissolution shall revert to Dade County, Georgia, subject to any mortgages, liens, leases or other encumbrances outstanding against or in respect to said property at that time.
H.
Intent. This amendment, being for the purpose of developing and promoting the public good and the welfare of Dade County, Georgia, and its inhabitants, shall be liberally construed to effect the purposes hereof.
I.
Severability. The provisions of this amendment are severable, and if any of its provisions shall be held unconstitutional by any court of competent jurisdiction, the decision of such court shall not affect or impair any of the remaining provisions.
J.
Projects. Any project of the authority shall be restricted to or within the limits of Dade County, Georgia.
K.
Intent. This amendment is adopted for the purpose of promoting and expanding for the public good and welfare industry and trade within the County of Dade and reducing unemployment to the greatest extent possible, and this amendment and any law enacted with reference to the authority shall be liberally construed for the accomplishment of these purposes.
L.
Effective date. This amendment [division] shall be effective immediately upon proclamation of its ratification by the governor and the first members of the authority shall take office within thirty (30) days after such proclamation.
M.
General Assembly. The General Assembly may by law further define and prescribe the powers and duties of the authority and the exercise thereof, and may enlarge and restrict the same, and may likewise further regulate the management and conduct of the authority.
(1967 Ga. Laws, page 907, § 1)
Editor's note— 1967 Ga. Laws, page 907, is an amendment to Ga. Const. (1945) art. VII, § VII, para. V. This amendment was continued in force and effect by 1988 Ga. Laws, page 5062.
Secs. 3.32—3.40. - Reserved.
DIVISION 4. - WATER AND SEWER AUTHORITY[3]

Footnotes:
--- (3) ---
Editor's note— Section 1 of 1973 Ga. Laws, page 2542, amended this act by changing the name from "Dade County Water Authority" to "Dade County Water and Sewer Authority"; this change has been made throughout this division without history note.

Sec. 3.41. - Short title.
This act [division] may be cited as the "Dade County Water and Sewer Authority Act."
(1958 Ga. Laws, page 3260, § 1)
Sec. 3.42. - [Established; officers; compensation; vacancy.]
modified
(a)
There is hereby created a body corporate and politic to be known as the Dade County Water and Sewer Authority, which shall be deemed to be a political subdivision of the State of Georgia and a public corporation, and by that name, style, and title, such body may contract and be contracted with, sue and be sued, implead and be impleaded, and complain and defend in all courts of law and equity. The authority shall consist of five members who shall be appointed and serve as provided in this section.
(b)
The terms of the members of the authority in office on the effective date of this Act shall terminate on the effective date of this Act.
(c)
On the effective date of this Act, or as soon as practicable thereafter, the City Commission of the City of Trenton shall appoint one member to serve on such authority by a majority vote of the city commission. The governing authority of Dade County shall appoint four members to serve on such authority. Each district commissioner of the county governing authority shall nominate one person from such commissioner's district to serve on the authority, and the county governing authority shall ratify such nomination by majority vote of the county governing authority. The initial appointment by the city commission shall serve an initial term of office beginning on the date of his or her appointment and ending December 31, 2020. The initial appointment by the county governing authority from District 1 shall serve an initial term of office beginning on the date of his or her appointment and ending December 31, 2021. The initial appointment by the county governing authority from District 2 shall serve an initial term of office beginning on the date of his or her appointment and ending December 31, 2022. The initial appointment by the county governing authority from District 3 shall serve an initial term of office beginning on the date of his or her appointment and ending December 31, 2023. The initial appointment by the county governing authority from District 4 shall serve an initial term of office beginning on the date of his of her appointment and ending December 31, 2024. Thereafter, appointments shall be made not more than 60 days prior to the expiration of the term of office of a member of the authority, by nomination by the city commission for the city appointee, by a majority vote of the city commission, or by the commissioner of the county governing authority in whose district the member whose term is expiring resides and ratification by a majority of the county governing authority for the county governing authority appointees. Such successors to the initial members under this subsection shall serve terms of office of five years and until a successor is appointed and qualified.
(d)
Those persons not eligible to serve on the authority shall include:
(1)
County or city elected officials;
(2)
County or city employees;
(3)
Dade County Water and Sewer Authority employees; and
(4)
Spouses, siblings, or children of those individuals disqualified in this subsection.
Members of the authority shall be and must remain residents of the city if a city appointee, or of the county governing authority districts from which they were appointed if a county appointee, during their terms of office, or such offices shall be declared vacant.
(e)
The seat of any member of the authority who is absent without being excused by the chairperson for two or more consecutive meetings of the authority shall be declared vacant by the appointing authority.
(f)
The city may remove from office the city appointee for cause upon a majority vote of the city commission, and the county may remove from office any of the county appointees for cause upon a majority vote of the county board of commissioners.
(g)
A vacancy on the authority shall be filled for the remainder of the unexpired term of office in the same manner as appointment to the authority was made by the city or county governing authority, depending upon whether the vacancy is of the city member or a county member of the authority.
(h)
The members of the authority shall elect from among their number a chairperson and vice chairperson and may elect a secretary and a treasurer who need not necessarily be members of the authority. Three members of the authority shall constitute a quorum. No vacancy on the authority shall impair the right of the quorum to exercise all the rights and perform all of the duties of the authority. The chairperson of the authority shall be a full voting member, entitled to vote on any issue, motion, question, or resolution. Three affirmative votes shall be required to transact any business of the authority.
(i)
The members of the authority shall receive such compensation for their services as set by a duly approved resolution of the authority. All members shall be reimbursed for their actual and reasonable expenses necessarily incurred in the performance of their duties. The authority shall make rules and regulation for its own governance. It shall have perpetual existence.
(1958 Ga. Laws, page 3260, § 2; 1991 Ga. Laws, page 3843, § 1; 2010 Ga. Laws, page 3535, § 2; 2019 Ga. Laws (Act. No. 200), SB 244 )
Sec. 3.42.5 - [Fire hydrants.]
modified
(a)
The authority shall have the duty and responsibility of ensuring that all fire hydrants connected to its water system are properly functioning at all times and have sufficient water pressure.
(b)
The authority shall be subject to the provisions of Chapter 14 of Title 50 of the O.C.G.A., relating to open and public meetings, and Article 4 of Chapter 18 of Title 50 of the O.C.G.A., relating to inspection of public records. The authority shall have regularly scheduled monthly meetings to be held at the Dade County Commission meeting rooms and at such times as designated by the authority. Special meetings of the authority may be called by the chairperson or by a majority of authority members.
(2010 Ga. Laws, page 3535, § 2; 2019 Ga. Laws (Act. No. 200), SB 244 )
Sec. 3.43. - Annual meetings.
There shall be an annual meeting of the users of the facilities of the [Dade County Water and Sewer] Authority. Such annual meeting shall be held on the first Monday in March of each year at a time and location to be determined by the [water and sewer] authority. It shall be the duty of the [water and sewer] authority to advertise the date, time and location of the annual meeting of the users in the local organ of Dade County once a week for a period of two weeks immediately prior to the date of such meeting.
(1958 Ga. Laws, page 3260, § 2A; 1973 Ga. Laws, page 2542, § 3)
Sec. 3.44. - Definitions.
As used in this act [division], the following words and terms shall have the following meanings:
(a)
The word[s] "[water and sewer] authority" shall mean the Dade County Water [and Sewer] Authority created by section 2 [3.42] of this act [division].
(b)
The word "project" shall be deemed to mean and include the acquisition and construction of all necessary and usual water facilities useful and necessary for the obtaining of one or more sources of water supply, the treatment of water and the distribution and sale of water to users and consumers, including counties and municipalities for the purpose of resale, within and without the territorial boundaries of Dade County and the operation, maintenance, additions, improvements, and extensions of such facilities so as to assure an adequate water utility system deemed by the [water and sewer] authority necessary or convenient for the efficient operation of such type of undertaking.
(c)
The term "cost of the project" shall embrace the cost of construction, the cost of all lands, properties, rights, easements and franchises acquired, the cost of all machinery and equipment, financing charges, interest prior to and during construction, and for one year after completion of construction, cost of engineering, architectural and legal expenses, and of plans and specifications, and other expenses necessary or incident to the financing herein authorized, the construction of any project, the placing of the same in operation, and the condemnation of property necessary for such construction and operation. Any obligation of expense incurred for any of the foregoing purposes shall be regarded as a part of the cost of the project and may be paid or reimbursed as such out of the proceeds of revenue bonds issued under the provisions of this act [division] for such project.
(d)
The terms "revenue bonds" and "bonds" as used in this act [division], shall mean revenue certificates as defined and provided for in the Revenue Certificate Law of Georgia (1937 Ga. Laws, page 761, as amended) and such type of obligations may be issued by the authority as authorized under said Revenue Certificate Law and in addition shall also mean obligations of the authority the issuance of which are hereinafter specifically provided for in this act [division].
(e)
Any project shall be deemed "self-liquidating" if, in the judgment of the [water and sewer] authority, the revenues and earnings to be derived by the [water and sewer] authority therefrom will be sufficient to pay the cost of operating, maintaining and repairing, improving and extending the project and to pay the principal and interest of the revenue bonds which may be issued for the cost of such project or projects.
(1958 Ga. Laws, page 3260, § 3)
Sec. 3.45. - Powers.
The [Dade County Water and Sewer] Authority shall have powers:
(a)
To have a seal and alter the same at pleasure;
(b)
To acquire by purchase, lease or otherwise, and to hold, lease and dispose of real and personal property of every kind and character for its corporate purposes;
(c)
To acquire in its own name by purchase, on such terms and conditions and in such manner as it may deem proper, or by condemnation in accordance with the provisions of any and all existing laws applicable to the condemnation of property for public use, real property or rights of easements therein or franchises necessary or convenient for its corporate purposes, and to use the same so long as its corporate existence shall continue and to lease or make contracts with respect to the use of or dispose of the same in any manner it deems to the best advantage of the [water and sewer] authority, the [water and sewer] authority being under no obligations to accept and pay for any property condemned under this act [division] except from the funds provided under the authority of this act [division], and in any proceeding to condemn, such orders may be made by the court having jurisdiction of the suit, action or proceedings as may be just to the [water and sewer] authority and to the owners of the property to be condemned, and no property shall be acquired under the provisions of this act [division] upon which any lien or other incumbrance exists, unless at the time such property is so acquired a sufficient sum of money be deposited in trust to pay and redeem the fair value of such lien or incumbrance; and if the [water and sewer] authority shall deem it expedient to construct any project on any other lands the title to which shall then be in the State of Georgia, the governor is hereby authorized to convey, for and in behalf of the state title to such lands to the [water and sewer] authority upon payment to the state treasurer for the credit of the general fund of the state of the reasonable value of such lands, such value to be determined by three appraisers to be agreed upon by the governor and the chairman of the [water and sewer] authority;
(d)
To appoint, select and employ officers, agents and employees, including engineering, architectural and construction experts, fiscal agents and attorneys, and fix their respective compensations;
(e)
To make contracts, leases and to execute all instruments necessary or convenient, including contracts for construction of projects and leases or projects or contracts with respect to the use of projects which it causes to be erected or acquired, and any and all persons, firms and corporations and any and all political subdivisions, departments, institutions or agencies of the state are hereby authorized to enter into contracts, leases or agreements with the [water and sewer] authority upon such terms and for such purposes as they deem advisable, and without limiting the generality of the above, authority is specifically granted to municipal corporations and counties and to the [water and sewer] authority to enter into contracts, lease agreements, or other undertakings relative to the furnishing of water and related services and facilities by the [water and sewer] authority to such municipal corporations and counties for a term not exceeding 30 years;
(f)
To construct, erect, acquire, own, repair, remodel, maintain, add to, extend, improve, equip, operate and manage projects as hereinabove defined, the cost of any such project to be paid in whole or in part from the proceeds of revenue bonds of the [water and sewer] authority or from such proceeds and any grant from the United States of America or any agency or instrumentality thereof;
(g)
To accept loans and/or grants of money or materials or property of any kind from the United States of America or any agency or instrumentality thereof, upon such terms and conditions as the United States of America or such agency or instrumentality may require;
(h)
To borrow money for any of its corporate purposes and to issue negotiable revenue bonds payable solely from funds pledged for that purpose, and to provide for the payment of the same and for the rights of the holders thereof;
(i)
To exercise any power usually possessed by private corporations performing similar functions, which is not in conflict with the constitution and laws of this state; and
(j)
To do all things necessary or convenient to carry out the powers expressly given in this act [division].
(1958 Ga. Laws, page 3260, § 4)
Sec. 3.46. - [Issuance of revenue bonds.]
The [Dade County Water and Sewer] Authority, or any authority or body which has or which may in the future succeed to the powers, duties, and liabilities vested in the [water and sewer] authority created hereby, shall have power and is authorized at one time, or from time to time, to provide by resolution for the issuance of revenue bonds, in a sum not to exceed $10 million [$10,000,000.00] outstanding at any one time, for the purpose of paying all or any part of the cost as herein defined of any one or more projects. The principal and interest of such revenue bonds shall be payable solely from the special fund herein provided for such payment. The bonds of each issue shall be dated, shall bear interest at the rate or rates, and shall mature at such time or times as permitted by resolution of the [water and sewer] authority. The bonds shall be payable in such medium of payment as to both principal and interest as may be determined by the [water and sewer] authority and may be made redeemable before maturity, at the option of the [water and sewer] authority, at such price or prices and under such terms and conditions as may be fixed by the [water and sewer] authority by resolution of the [water and sewer] authority.
(1958 Ga. Laws, page 3260, § 5; 1985 Ga. Laws, page 3839, § 1)
Sec. 3.47. - Existing facilities.
The [Dade County Water and Sewer] Authority shall be authorized to purchase any existing water and sewage facilities or systems within the county, provided such facilities or systems are appraised by a competent engineer furnished or recommended by the state department of natural resources, and provided further, that a notice of such purchase shall be advertised in the newspaper in which the sheriff's advertisements are published, at least once a week for three weeks before such purchase.
(1958 Ga. Laws, page 3260, § 6; 1973 Ga. Laws, page 2542, § 6)
Sec. 3.48. - [Bonds]—Form; denominations; registrations; place of payment.
The [Dade County Water and Sewer] Authority shall determine the form of the bonds, including any interest coupons to be attached thereto, and shall fix the denomination or denominations of the bonds and the place or places of payment of principal and interest thereof, which may be at any bank or trust company within or without the state. The bonds may be issued in coupon or registered form, or both, as the [water and sewer] authority may determine, provision may be made for the registration of any coupon bond as to principal alone and also as to both the principal and interest.
(1958 Ga. Laws, page 3260, § 7)
Sec. 3.49. - Same[—]Signatures; seal.
In case any officer whose signature shall appear on any bonds or whose facsimile signature shall appear on any coupon shall cease to be such officer before the delivery of such bonds, such signature shall nevertheless be valid and sufficient for all purposes the same as if he had remained in office until such delivery. All such bonds shall be signed by the Chairman of the [Dade County Water and Sewer] Authority and any coupons attached thereto shall bear the signature or facsimile signature of the chairman of the [water and sewer] authority. Any coupon may bear the facsimile signature of such persons and any bond may be signed, sealed and attested on behalf of the [water and sewer] authority by such persons as at the actual time of the execution of such bonds shall be duly authorized or hold the proper office, although at the date of such bonds such persons may not have been so authorized or shall not have held such office.
(1958 Ga. Laws, page 3260, § 8)
Sec. 3.50. - Same[—]Negotiability; exemption from taxation.
All revenue bonds issued under the provisions of this act [division] shall have and are hereby declared to have all the qualities and incidents of negotiable instruments under the negotiable instruments law of the state. Such bonds and the income thereof shall be exempt from all taxation with the state.
(1958 Ga. Laws, page 3260, § 9)
Sec. 3.51. - [Same—Price; sale of.]
The [Dade County Water and Sewer] Authority may sell such bonds in such manner and for such price as it may determine to be for the best interest of the [water and sewer] authority.
(1958 Ga. Laws, page 3260, § 10; 1985 Ga. Laws, page 3839, § 2)
Sec. 3.52. - Same[—]Proceeds.
The proceeds of such bonds shall be used solely for the payment of the cost of the project or projects, and unless otherwise provided in the resolution authorizing the issuance of the bonds or in the trust indenture, additional bonds may in like manner be issued to provide the amount of such deficit, which, unless otherwise provided in the resolution authorizing the issuance of the bonds or in the trust indenture, shall be deemed to be of the same and shall be entitled to payment from the same fund without preference or priority of the bonds first issued for the same purpose. If the proceeds of the bonds of any issue shall exceed the amount required for the purpose for which such bonds are issued, the surplus shall be paid into the fund hereinafter provided for the payment of principal and interest of such bonds.
(1958 Ga. Laws, page 3260, § 11)
Sec. 3.53. - Same[—]Interim receipts and certificates or temporary bonds.
Prior to the preparation of definitive bonds, the [Dade County Water and Sewer] Authority may, under like restrictions, issue interim receipts, interim certificates or temporary bonds, with or without coupons exchangeable for definitive bonds upon the issuance of the latter.
(1958 Ga. Laws, page 3260, § 12)
Sec. 3.54. - Same[—]Replacement of lost or mutilated bonds.
The [Dade County Water and Sewer] Authority may also provide for the replacement of any bond which shall become mutilated or be destroyed or lost.
(1958 Ga. Laws, page 3260, § 13)
Sec. 3.55. - Conditions precedent to issuance[—]Object of issuance.
Such revenue bonds may be issued without any other proceedings or the happening of any other conditions or things than those proceedings, conditions and things which are specified or required by this act [division]. In the discretion of the [Dade County Water and Sewer] Authority, revenue bonds of a single issue may be issued for the purpose of any particular project. Any resolution providing for the issuance of revenue bonds under the provisions of this act [division] shall become effective immediately upon its passage and need not be published or posted, and any such resolution may be passed at any regular or special or adjourned meeting of the [water and sewer] authority by a majority of its members.
(1958 Ga. Laws, page 3260, § 14)
Sec. 3.56. - [Same—]Credit not pledged.
Revenue bonds issued under the provisions of this act [division] shall not be deemed to constitute a debt of Dade County or a pledge of the faith and credit of said county, but such bonds shall be payable solely from the fund hereinafter provided for and the issuance of such revenue bonds shall not directly, indirectly or contingently obligate the said county to levy or to pledge any form of taxation whatever therefor or to make any appropriation for the payment, and all such bonds shall contain recitals on their face covering substantially the foregoing provisions of this section.
(1958 Ga. Laws, page 3260, § 15)
Sec. 3.57. - Same[—]Trust indenture as security.
In the discretion of the [Dade County Water and Sewer] Authority, any issue of such revenue bonds may be secured by a trust indenture by and between the [water and sewer] authority and a corporate trustee, which may be any trust company or bank having the powers of a trust company within or outside the state. Such trust indenture may pledge or assign fees, tolls, revenues and earnings to be received by the [water and sewer] authority. Either the resolution providing for the issuance of revenue bonds or such trust indenture may contain such provisions for protecting and enforcing the right and remedies of the bondholder as may be reasonable and proper and not in violation of law, including covenants setting forth the duties of the [water and sewer] authority in relation to the acquisition of property, the construction of the project, the maintenance, operation, repair and insurance of the project, and the custody, safeguarding and application of all monies, and may also provide that any project shall be constructed and paid for under the supervision and approval of consulting engineers or architects employed or designated by the [water and sewer] authority and satisfactory to the original purchasers of the bonds issued therefore and may also require that the security given by contractors and by any depository of the proceeds of the bonds or revenues or other monies be satisfactory to such purchasers, and may also contain provisions concerning the conditions, if any, upon which additional revenue bonds may be issued. It shall be lawful for any bank or trust company incorporated under the laws of this state to act as such depository and to furnish such indemnifying bonds or pledge such securities as may be required by the [water and sewer] authority. Such indenture may set forth the rights and remedies of the bondholders as is customary in trust indentures securing bonds and debentures of corporations. In addition to the foregoing, such trust indenture may contain such other provisions as the [water and sewer] authority may deem reasonable and proper for the security of the bondholders. All expenses incurred in carrying out such trust indenture may be treated as a part of the cost of maintenance, operation and repair of the project affected by such indenture.
(1958 Ga. Laws, page 3260, § 16)
Sec. 3.58. - Same[—]To whom proceeds shall be paid.
The [Dade County Water and Sewer] Authority shall, in the resolution providing for the issuance of revenue bonds or in the trust indenture, provide for the payment of the proceeds of the sale of the bonds to any officer or person who, or any agency, bank or trust company which[,] shall act as trustee of such funds and shall hold and apply the same to the purposes hereof, subject to such regulations as this act [division] and such resolution or trust indenture may provide.
(1958 Ga. Laws, page 3260, § 17)
Sec. 3.59. - Sinking fund.
The revenues, fees, tolls and earnings derived from any particular project or projects, regardless of whether or not such fees, earnings, and revenues were produced by a particular project for which bonds have been issued unless otherwise pledged and allocated, may be pledged and allocated by the [Dade County Water and Sewer] Authority to the payment of the principal and interest on revenue bonds of the [water and sewer] authority as the resolution authorizing the issuance of the bonds or in the trust instrument may provide, and such funds so pledged from whatever source received, which said pledge may include funds received from one or more or all sources, shall be set aside at regular intervals as may be provided in the resolution or trust indenture, into a sinking fund which said sinking fund shall be [p]ledged to an[d] charged with the payments of (1) the interest upon such revenue bonds as such interest shall fall due; (2) the principal of the bonds as the same shall fall due; (3) the necessary charges of paying agents for paying principal and interest; and (4) any premium upon bonds, retired by call or purchase as hereinabove provided. The use and disposition of such sinking fund shall be subject to such regulations as may be provided in the resolution authorizing the issuance of the revenue bonds or in the trust indenture, but, except as may otherwise be provided in such resolution or trust indenture, such sinking fund shall be a fund for the benefit of all revenue bonds without distinction or priority of one over another. Subject to the provisions of the resolution authorizing the issuance of the bonds or in the trust indenture surplus monies in the sinking fund may be applied to the purchase of [or] redemption of bonds and any such bonds so purchased or redeemed shall forthwith be cancelled and shall not again be issued.
(1958 Ga. Laws, page 3260, § 18)
Sec. 3.60. - Remedies of bondholders.
Any holder of revenue bonds issued under the provisions of this act [division] or any of the coupons appertaining thereto, and the trustee under the trust indenture, if any, except to the extent the rights herein given may be restricted by resolution passed before the issuance of the bonds or by the trust indenture, may, either at law or in equity, by suit, action, mandamus, or other proceedings, protect and enforce any and all rights under the laws of the State of Georgia or granted hereunder or under such resolution or trust indenture, and may enforce and compel performance of all duties required by this act [division] or by such resolution or trust indenture to be performed by the [Dade County Water and Sewer] Authority, or any officer thereof, including the fixing, charging, and collecting of revenues, fees, tools, and other charges for the use of the facilities and services furnished.
(1958 Ga. Laws, page 3260, § 19)
Sec. 3.61. - Refunding bonds.
The [Dade County Water and Sewer] Authority is hereby authorized to provide by resolution for the issue of revenue refunding bonds of the [water and sewer] authority for the purpose of refunding any revenue bonds issued under the provisions of this act [division] and then outstanding, together with accrued interest thereon. The issuance of such revenue refunding bonds, the maturities and all other details thereof, the rights of the holders thereof, and the duties of the [water and sewer] authority in respect to the same, shall be governed by the foregoing provisions of this act [division] insofar as the same may be applicable.
(1958 Ga. Laws, page 3260, § 20)
Sec. 3.62. - Venue and jurisdiction.
Any action to protect or enforce any rights under the provisions of this act [division] or any suit or action against such [Dade County Water and Sewer] Authority shall be brought in the Superior Court of Dade County, Georgia, and any action pertaining to validation of any bonds issued under the provisions of this act [division] shall likewise be brought in said court which shall have exclusive, original jurisdiction of such actions.
(1958 Ga. Laws, page 3260, § 21)
Sec. 3.63. - Validation.
Bonds of the [Dade County Water and Sewer] Authority shall be confirmed and validated in accordance with the procedure of the Revenue Certificate Law of 1937, as amended. The petition for validation shall also make party defendant to such action any municipality, county, authority, subdivision, or instrumentality of the State of Georgia which has contracted with the [water and sewer] authority for the services and facilities of the water system for which bonds are to be issued and sought to be validated and such municipality, county, authority, subdivision or instrumentality shall be required to show cause, if any, why such contract or contracts and the terms and conditions thereof should not be inquired into by the court and the validity of the terms thereof be determined and the contract or contracts adjudicated as security for the payment of any such bonds of the [water and sewer] authority. The bonds when validated, and the judgment of validation shall be final and conclusive with respect to such bonds, against the [water and sewer] authority issuing the same, and any municipality, county, authority, subdivision or instrumentality contracting with the said Dade County Water [and Sewer] Authority.
(1958 Ga. Laws, page 3260, § 22)
Sec. 3.64. - Interests of bondholders protected.
While any of the bonds issued by the [Dade County Water and Sewer] Authority remain outstanding, the powers, duties or existence of said [water and sewer] authority or of its officers, employees or agents shall not be diminished or impaired in any manner that will affect adversely the interests and rights of the holders of such bonds, and no other entity, department, agency or authority will be created which will complete [compete] with the [water and sewer] authority to such an extent as to affect adversely the interests and rights of the holders of such bonds, nor will the state itself so compete with the [water and sewer] authority. The provisions of this act [division] shall be for the benefit of the [water and sewer] authority and the holders of any such bonds, and upon the issuance of bonds under the provisions hereof, shall constitute a contract with the holders of such bonds.
(1958 Ga. Laws, page 3260, § 23)
Sec. 3.65. - Monies received considered trust funds.
All monies received pursuant to the [water and sewer] authority of this act [division], whether as proceeds from the sale of revenue bonds, as grants or other contributions, or as revenues, fees and earnings, shall be deemed to be trust funds to be held and applied solely as provided in this act [division.]
(1958 Ga. Laws, page 3260, § 24)
Sec. 3.66. - Purposes of the [Dade County Water and Sewer] Authority.
Without limiting the generality of any provision of this act [division], the general purpose of the [Dade County Water and Sewer] Authority is declared to be that of acquiring an adequate source or sources of water supply, treatment of such water, and thereafter the distribution of same to [the] Dade County water system, and the various municipalities in said county and environs, including adjoining counties and municipalities located therein, but such general purpose shall not restrict the [water and sewer] authority from selling and delivering water direct to consumers in those areas where there does not now exist [a] water distribution system and where neither any county nor municipality deems it desirable for [or] feasible to furnish water in such locality. The [water and sewer] authority shall also have the authority, where it deems it feasible, to sell to consumers, governmental agencies, or governmental instrumentalities of adjoining states, provided the law of the adjoining state does not prohibit or tax said activity.
(1958 Ga. Laws, page 3260, § 25)
Sec. 3.67. - Rates, charges and revenues; use.
The [Dade County Water and Sewer] Authority is hereby authorized to prescribe and fix and collect rates, fees, tolls or charges, and to revise from time to time and collect such rates, fees, tolls or charges for the services, facilities or commodities furnished, and in anticipation of the collection of the revenues of such undertaking or project to issue revenue bonds as herein provided to finance in whole or in part the cost of the acquisition, construction, reconstruction, improvement, betterment or extension of the water utility system, and to pledge to the punctual payment of said bonds and interest thereon, all or any part of the revenues of such undertaking or project, including the revenues of improvements, betterments, or extensions thereto thereafter made.
(1958 Ga. Laws, page 3260, § 26)
Sec. 3.68. - Rates and regulations for operation of projects.
It shall be the duty of the [Dade County Water and Sewer] Authority to prescribe rules and regulations for the operation of the project or projects constructed under the provisions of this act [division], including the basis on which water service and facilities shall be furnished.
(1958 Ga. Laws, page 3260, § 27)
Sec. 3.69. - Powers declared supplemental and additional.
The foregoing sections of this act [division] shall be deemed to provide an additional and alternative method for the doing of the things authorized thereby and shall be regarded as supplemental and additional to powers conferred by other laws, and shall not be regarded as in derogation of any powers now existing.
(1958 Ga. Laws, page 3260, § 28)
Sec. 3.70. - Liberal construction of act.
This act being for the welfare of various political subdivisions of the State and its inhabitants, shall be liberally construed to effect the purposes hereof.
(1958 Ga. Laws, page 3260, § 28)
Sec. 3.71. - Effect of partial invalidity of act.
The provisions of the act are severable, and if any of its provisions shall be held unconstitutional by any court of competent jurisdiction, the decision of such court shall not affect or impair any of the remaining provisions.
(1958 Ga. Laws, page 3260, § 29)
Sec. 3.72. - Repeal.
This act does not in any way take from Dade County or any municipality located therein or any or any adjoining county the authority to own, operate and maintain water systems or issue revenue cerificates as is provided by the Revenue Certificate Law of Georgia. All laws and parts of laws in conflict with this act are hereby repealed.
(1958 Ga. Laws, page 3260, § 30)
Secs. 3.73—3.90. - Reserved.
DIVISION 5. - BOARD OF ELECTIONS AND REGISTRATION

Sec. 3.91. - [Purpose.]
Pursuant to subsection (b) of Code Section 21-2-40 of the O.C.G.A., there is created the Board of Elections and Registration of Dade County, hereinafter referred to as "the board." The board shall have the powers, duties, and responsibilities of the judge of the probate court of Dade County under Chapter 2 of Title 21 of the O.C.G.A., the "Georgia Election Code," and the powers, duties, and responsibilities of the board of registrars of Dade County under Chapter 2 of Title 21 of the O.C.G.A., the "Georgia Election Code."
(2005 Ga. Laws, page 3940, § 1)
Sec. 3.92. - [Definitions.]
The terms "election," "elector," "political party," "primary," and "public office" shall have the same meaning as set forth in Chapter 2 of Title 21 of the O.C.G.A., the "Georgia Election Code," unless otherwise clearly apparent from the text of this act, and the term "county" means Dade County.
(2005 Ga. Laws, page 3940, § 2)
Sec. 3.93. - [Board authorized generally.]
(a)
The board shall be composed of five members, each of whom shall be an elector of Dade County, shall have been a resident of Dade County for a period of two years, shall be at least 25 years of age at the time of assuming office, and shall be qualified and selected in the following manner:
(1)
Two members shall be appointed by the county executive committee of the political party whose candidate at the last preceding general election received the largest number of votes in this state for the office of Governor;
(2)
Two members shall be appointed by the county executive committee of the political party whose candidate at the last preceding general election received the next largest number of votes in this state for the office of Governor;
(3)
Each of the appointments made by the respective executive committees shall have been ratified by a majority of the members of each of such respective executive committees voting at a meeting duly called and held for such purposes. In the event such appointments are not ratified by a majority of the members of such executive committees, then such members shall be appointed by the judge of the probate court of Dade County;
(4)
The fifth member of the Dade County Board of Elections and Registration shall be appointed by the county executive committee of the political party or body whose candidate at the last preceding general election received the third highest number of votes in this state for the office of Governor, provided that such number is at least 1 percent of the total number of votes cast for such office. Otherwise, the fifth member of the Dade County Board of Elections and Registration shall be appointed by the judge of the probate court of Dade County;
(5)
At the first meeting of each calendar year, the members of the Dade County Board of Elections and Registration shall select one of the members of the board to serve as chairperson;
(6)
No person who holds or is a candidate for an elective public office or who serves as an officer, employee, committee member, or other representative of either a political campaign of a candidate for elective public office or a political party or who is engaged on behalf of any candidate for an elective public office in the solicitation of votes for such candidate shall be eligible to serve as a member of the board during the term of such elective office or within two years after such active political participation as described in this paragraph, and the position of any member of the board shall be deemed vacant upon such member's qualifying as a candidate for elective public office or upon such member's engaging in such political activity described in this paragraph. This paragraph shall not prohibit a nonelective employee of the county governing authority from serving as a member of the board of elections and registration;
(7)
(A)
The initial appointments to the board shall be made not later than July 1, 2005;
(B)
Of the two initial members appointed by the executive committee of the political party whose candidate at the last preceding general election received the largest number of votes in this state for the office of Governor, one of the persons so appointed, who shall be designated by the executive committee, shall serve a term of office beginning on July 1, 2005, and expiring on December 31, 2006, and one of the persons so appointed, who shall be designated by the executive committee, shall serve a term of office beginning on July 1, 2005, and expiring on December 31, 2008;
(C)
Of the two initial members appointed by the executive committee of the political party whose candidate at the last preceding general election received the next largest number of votes in this state for the office of Governor, one of the persons so appointed, who shall be designated by the executive committee, shall serve a term of office beginning on July 1, 2005, and expiring on December 31, 2006, and one of the persons so appointed, who shall be designated by the executive committee, shall serve a term of office beginning on July 1, 2005, and expiring on December 31, 2008;
(D)
The initial member appointed as provided in paragraph (4) of this section shall serve a term of office beginning July 1, 2005, and expiring December 31, 2008; and
(E)
All such persons so appointed shall serve for the initial terms specified and until their successors are duly appointed and qualified;
(9)
After the initial terms of office, successors to members whose terms are about to expire shall be appointed to take office on the first day of January immediately following the expiration of a term of office and shall serve for terms of four years each and until their successors are duly appointed and qualified; and
(10)
Appointments on behalf of political parties and bodies that do not have county executive committees in Dade County shall be made by the state executive committee of such party or body.
(b)
The appointment of each member shall be made by the appointing authority's filing with the clerk of the Superior Court of Dade County an affidavit stating the name and residence address of the person appointed and certifying that such member has been duly appointed as provided in this act. The clerk of the superior court shall record each of such certifications on the minutes of the court and shall certify the name of each such member to the Secretary of State and provide for the issuance of appropriate commissions to the members and chairperson within the same time and in the same manner as provided by law for registrars. If any appointing authority does not, in conformity with this act, certify an appointment to the board within 30 days after the beginning of a term of office or within 30 days after the creation of a vacancy in that office, a vacancy shall be deemed to have been thereby created and the judge of the probate court of Dade County shall fill that vacancy by making the appointment thereto and shall certify it as provided in this section. Any person appointed to fill a vacancy shall serve out the unexpired term of office.
(2005 Ga. Laws, page 3940, § 3)
Sec. 3.94. - [Succession; resignation; removal.]
Each member of the board shall be eligible to succeed himself or herself without limitation and shall have the right to resign at any time by giving written notice of such resignation to the appointing authority and to the clerk of the Superior Court of Dade County. Each member shall be subject to removal from the board at any time, for cause, after notice and hearing, by the chief judge of the Superior Court of Dade County in the same manner and by the same authority as provided for the removal of registrars.
(2005 Ga. Laws, page 3940, § 4)
Sec. 3.95. - [Vacancy appointment.]
In the event a vacancy occurs in the office of any member before the expiration of his or her term by removal, death, resignation, or otherwise, the vacancy shall be filled for the remainder of the unexpired term by the appointing authority for that position on the board. The clerk of the superior court shall be notified of such interim appointments and record and certify such appointments in the same manner as the regular appointment of members.
(2005 Ga. Laws, page 3940, § 5)
Sec. 3.96. - [Oath.]
Before entering upon the member's duties, each member shall take substantially the same oath as required by law for registrars and shall have the same privileges from arrest.
(2005 Ga. Laws, page 3940, § 6)
Sec. 3.97. - [Authority.]
The chairperson of the board shall be the chief executive officer of the board and shall generally supervise, direct, and control the administration of the affairs of the board pursuant to law and duly adopted resolutions of the board. The board shall fix and establish, by appropriate resolution entered on its minutes, directives governing the execution of matters within its jurisdiction.
(2005 Ga. Laws, page 3940, § 7)
Sec. 3.98. - [Employment.]
The board shall be authorized to employ such full-time and part-time employees, including a full-time chief clerk, as the board shall deem necessary. The governing authority of Dade County shall have the right to approve the hiring of any such employee.
(2005 Ga. Laws, page 3940, § 8)
Sec. 3.99. - [Selection, appointment, training of poll workers.]
The board shall be responsible for the selection, appointment, and training of poll workers in elections; and such workers shall be appointed, insofar as practicable, from lists provided the board by the county executive committee of each political party. The board shall also formulate, adopt, and promulgate rules and regulations, consistent with law and the rules and regulations of the state executive committee of each political party, governing the conduct of primaries to the end that, insofar as practicable, all primaries shall be uniformly conducted by the board, poll workers shall be properly trained, and voters shall be adequately informed and instructed.
(2005 Ga. Laws, page 3940, § 9)
Sec. 4.00. - [Expenditures.]
The board shall propose an annual budget to the county governing authority for approval or negotiation detailing the expenditures necessary for the execution of its duties. With the consent of the governing authority of Dade County, the board shall be authorized to expend public funds for the purpose of distributing sample ballots, voter information booklets, and other material designed to inform and instruct adequately the electors of the county with regard to elections.
(2005 Ga. Laws, page 3940, § 10)
Sec. 4.01. - [Compensation.]
Compensation for the chairperson and other members of the board and for employees of the board shall be fixed by the board with the approval of the governing authority of Dade County. Such compensation shall be paid from county funds.
(2005 Ga. Laws, page 3940, § 11)
Sec. 4.02. - [Offices and equipment.]
The governing authority of Dade County shall provide the board with proper and suitable offices and equipment.
(2005 Ga. Laws, page 3940, § 12)
Sec. 4.03. - [Contracts.]
The board shall have the authority to contract with any municipal corporation located within the county for the holding by the board of any primary or election to be conducted within the municipal corporation.
(2005 Ga. Laws, page 3940, § 13)
