ARTICLE I. - BOARD OF COMMISSIONERS

Sec. 1.01. - Governing authority.
(a)
There is created the Board of Commissioners of Dade County to be elected and organized as provided in this act [article]. There is created the office of Chairman of the Board of Commissioners of Dade County. The chairman shall be a member of the board and shall be elected as provided in this act.
(b)
The Board of Commissioners of Dade County shall constitute the governing authority of Dade County and the respective powers and duties of the board and the chairman shall be as provided in this act [article]. The board of commissioners shall be the successor to the office of Dade County Commissioner.
(1991 Ga. Laws, page 3893, § 1)
Sec. 1.02. - [Commission districts.]
(a)
For the purpose of electing the members of the board of commissioners, except of the chairperson/county executive, Dade County is divided into four commissioner districts which shall correspond to those four numbered districts described in and attached to and made a part of this act and further identified as Plan Name: dadeccp l Plan Type: Local User: staff Administrator: Dade Co.
(b)
When used in such attachment, the terms 'Tract' and 'BG' (Block Group) shall mean and describe the same geographical boundaries as provided in the report of the Bureau of the Census for the United States decennial census of 2000 for the State of Georgia. The separate numeric designations in a Tract description which are underneath a 'BG' heading shall mean and describe individual Blocks within a Block Group as provided in the report of the Bureau of the Census for the United States decennial census of 2000 for the State of Georgia. Any part of Dade County not included in any such district described in that attachment shall be included within that district contiguous to such part that contains the least population according to the United States decennial census of 2000 for the State of Georgia. Any part of Dade County described in that attachment as being in a particular district shall nevertheless not be included within such district if such part is not contiguous to such district. Such noncontiguous part shall instead be included within that district contiguous to such part that contains the least population according to the United States decennial census of 2000 for the State of Georgia. Except as otherwise provided in the description of any district, whenever the description of such district refers to a named city, it shall mean the geographical boundaries of that city as shown on the census map for the United States decennial census of 2000 for the State of Georgia.
(c)
Each commissioner shall be a citizen of this state, at least 21 years of age, and shall have been a resident of the respective commissioner district for at least one year immediately prior to taking office. Each commissioner, except the chairperson/county executive, shall be required to reside in the commissioner district that such commissioner represents during his or her term of office. Each commissioner shall be elected by the qualified electors of the entire county. Any commissioner who ceases to be a resident of his or her respective commissioner district during his or her term of office shall thereby vacate his or her seat on the board. All members of the board shall be nominated and elected pursuant to the provisions of Chapter 2 of Title 21 of the O.C.G.A., the 'Georgia Election Code,' as now or hereafter amended.
(1991 Ga. Laws, page 3893, § 2; 1992 Ga Laws, page 6131, § 1; 2002 Ga. Laws, page 5339, § 1-1; 2004 Ga. Laws, page 3535, § 1; 2009 Ga. Laws, page 3728, § 1)
Sec. 1.03. - Election; bond.
(a)
The members of the board of commissioners who are in office or take office on January 1, 2011, and any persons filling vacancies in such offices shall serve out the terms of office to which they were elected and until their respective successors are elected and qualified.
(b)
The first members of the reconstituted board of commissioners of Dade County from Commissioner Districts 1 and 2 elected by the qualified electors of the entire county shall be elected at the state-wide general election in 2014. Such members shall take office on January 1 following their election for terms of four years and until their successors are elected and qualified.
(c)
The first members of the reconstituted board of commissioners of Dade County from Commissioner Districts 3 and 4 elected by the qualified electors of the entire county shall be elected at the state-wide general election in 2012. Such members shall take office on January 1 following their election for terms of four years and until their successors are elected and qualified.
(d)
The first chairperson/county executive of the reconstituted board of commissioners of Dade County shall be elected at the state-wide general election in 2004. Such chairperson/county executive shall take office on January 1 following such election for a term of four years and until his or her successor is elected and qualified.
(e)
Successors to members elected under subsections (b), (c), and (d) of this section shall be elected at the state-wide general election next preceding the expiration of such terms of office and shall take office on January 1 following their election for terms of four years and until their successors are elected and qualified.
(f)
Before entering upon the duties of office, each member of the board shall take and subscribe to an oath for the faithful performance of that member's duties and shall give bond to and be approved by the judge of the Probate Court of Dade County in the amount of $10,000.00 each, with good and sufficient security, conditioned upon the faithful performance of that member's duties and the faithful accounting for all property and funds coming into that member's hands by virtue of that member's office.
(1991 Ga. Laws, page 3893, § 3; 2002 Ga. Laws, page 5339, § 1-2; 2009 Ga. Laws, page 3728, § 2)
Sec. 1.04. - Chairman.
The person elected as chairperson/county executive shall devote full time to the business and interests of Dade County in the performance of the chairperson/county executive's duties. The chairperson/county executive shall have and maintain an office for the transaction of county business at the courthouse of Dade County. Such office shall remain open during regular hours of business on all days except Saturdays, Sundays, and legal holidays. The chairperson/county executive shall preside over the meetings of the board and shall be a full-voting member of the board but shall not have any veto power. The chairperson/county executive shall call meetings of the board as provided in this act and as required by a majority of the members of the board. The chairperson/county executive shall also appoint members and chairpersons of all committees of the board. The chairperson/county executive shall be recognized as the official head of Dade County by state, federal, and other authorities for military and ceremonial functions.
(1991 Ga. Laws, page 3893, § 4; 2002 Ga. Laws, page 5339, § 1-3)
Sec. 1.05. - Vice-chairman.
The board of commissioners may elect from its membership a vice-chairman to serve at the pleasure of the board. The vice-chairman shall preside at meetings of the board in the absence, disability, or disqualification of the chairman and during a vacancy in the office of chairman until such vacancy is filled as provided in subsection 1.07(a) of this section [article]. The vice-chairman shall receive no additional salary for service as vice-chairman, and the rights and duties of such person as a member of the board shall not be impaired by reason of such service as vice-chairman.
(1991 Ga. Laws, page 3893, § 5)
Sec. 1.06. - Meetings.
The board of commissioners shall hold a regular meeting no less than once a month, which meeting shall be on the first Tuesday of every month at the Dade County Courthouse, unless the board shall designate a different regular meeting day or place, and shall meet at such special or called meeting as they may see fit to hold. Three members of the board shall constitute a quorum for the transaction of business, but the concurrence of at least three commissioners shall be necessary to take official action.
(1991 Ga. Laws, page 3893, § 6)
Sec. 1.07. - Vacancies.
(a)
In the event of a vacancy occurring in the membership of the board [of commissioners], whether the vacancy is in the office of chairman or any other member, for any reason other than expiration of term, that vacancy shall be filled as provided in this subsection:
(1)
If the vacancy occurs within the first two years of the term of the vacated office but at least 35 days before the November general election to be held within those first two years, then the remaining members of the board shall appoint, within 15 days after the vacancy occurs, a successor to fill that vacancy until it is filled for the remaining unexpired term by a person who shall be elected at a special election held upon the same date as that November general election. The Election Superintendent of Dade County shall conduct that special election on the same date as that November general election and shall issue the call therefor within the time period provided under Georgia state law for the calling of such special elections. The person elected at such special election to fill that vacancy shall take office within ten days after the results of that election are certified and shall serve out the remaining unexpired term and until a successor is elected and qualified;
(2)
If the vacancy occurs at any time other than as specified in paragraph [subsection] (1) of this subsection [section], then the remaining members of the board shall appoint, within 15 days after the vacancy occurs, a successor to serve out the remaining unexpired term and until a successor is elected and qualified; and
(3)
The provisions of O.C.G.A. Ch. 2, Tit. 21 shall apply to special elections to fill vacancies provided for in this subsection [section].
(1991 Ga. Laws, page 3893, § 7; Ord. No. 07-03-14, 7-3-2014)
Sec. 1.08. - Compensation.
(a)
The chairperson/county executive shall receive an annual salary in an amount $500.00 greater than the annual salary received by the highest paid county officer of Dade County; provided, however, that such salary shall not be reduced in the event that the salary of the highest paid county officer of Dade County upon which such salary is based is reduced for any reason. Each member of the board, other than the chairperson/county executive, shall receive an annual salary of $4,000.00. Such salaries shall be paid in equal monthly installments from the funds of Dade County.
(b)
In addition to said salaries, the chairman shall receive an expense allowance account of $2,000.00 per year from county funds, and each other member of the board shall receive an expense allowance account of $1,200.00 per year from county funds; provided, however, that the board may, by unanimous concurrence, authorize the reimbursement of expenses over and above the expense account allowance of any commissioner if such expenses are incurred by such commissioner in the performance of his or her duties. The chairman and other members of the board may be reimbursed from such accounts, up to such maximum amounts, for expenses actually incurred by them in the performance of their duties. A member claiming expense account reimbursement shall provide documentation of the expenditure for which reimbursement is requested, subject to such rules and regulations as the board shall specify. Expense accounts shall be maintained on a calendar year basis and any amounts not expended from a member's expense account for any calendar year for expenses incurred in that calendar year shall revert to the general fund of the county treasury.
(1991 Ga. Laws, page 3893, § 8; 2002 Ga. Laws, page 5339, § 1-4)
Sec. 1.09. - Powers and duties.
(a)
The board [of commissioners] shall have the power and authority to fix and establish, by appropriate resolution or ordinance entered on its minutes, policies, rules, and regulations governing all matters reserved to its jurisdiction by this act [article]. The board shall exercise only those powers which are necessarily and properly incident to its function as a policy-making or rule-making body or which are necessary to compel enforcement of its adopted resolutions or ordinances. The following powers are vested in the board:
(1)
To levy taxes;
(2)
To make appropriations;
(3)
To fix the rates of all other charges;
(4)
To authorize the incurring of indebtedness;
(5)
To authorize work to be done where the cost is to be assessed against benefited property and to fix the basis for such assessment;
(6)
To establish, alter, or abolish public roads, private ways, bridges, and ferries, according to law, but the chairman shall have the authority to accept subdivision plats when the requirements established by the board for subdivisions have been met;
(7)
To establish, abolish, or change election precincts and militia districts according to law;
(8)
To allow the insolvent lists for the county;
(9)
To authorize the acceptance for the county of the provisions of any optional statute where the statute permits its acceptance by the governing authority of a county;
(10)
To regulate land use by implementing a land use plan and by the adoption of other planning and zoning ordinances which relate reasonably to the public health, safety, morality, and general welfare of the county and its citizens;
(11)
To create and change the boundaries of special taxing districts authorized by law;
(12)
To fix the bonds of county officers where they are not fixed by statute;
(13)
To enact any ordinances or other legislation the county may be given authority to enact;
(14)
To determine the priority of capital improvements;
(15)
To call elections for the voting of bonds;
(16)
To exercise, together with the chairman of the board of commissioners, all powers now or hereafter vested in county governing authorities by the constitution and general laws of this state;
(17)
To fix, levy, and assess license fees, charges, or taxes on all persons, firms, and corporations engaging in or offering to engage in any trade, business, calling, avocation, or profession in the area of Dade County outside the incorporated limits of municipalities situated therein, except businesses which are subject to regulation by the state public service commission, and to classify all such persons, firms, and corporations according to the nature, manner, and size of business conducted by such persons, firms, and corporations and to fix, levy, and assess different license fees, charges, or taxes against different classes of trades, businesses, callings, avocations, or professions. Such licenses shall be issued, annually or otherwise, and may be revoked, cancelled, or suspended after notice and a hearing, in accordance with rules prescribed by the board. Said board shall be further authorized to adopt ordinances and resolutions to govern and regulate all such trades, businesses, callings, avocations, or professions, not contrary to regulations prescribed by general law, for the purpose of protecting and preserving the health, safety, welfare, and morals of the citizens of said county and to prescribe penalties for the violation of any such ordinances and resolutions, including the operation of such businesses without the obtaining of a license or when such license is revoked or suspended. Payment of said license fees, charges, or taxes may be enforced by fi. fas. issued by the board and levied by any officer in said county authorized by law to levy fi. fas. for taxes, assessments, fines, costs, or forfeitures due said county. The board shall be authorized, in its discretion, to require any and all persons, firms, or corporations licensed pursuant to the authority herein granted to give a bond payable to Dade County and conditioned to pay said county or anyone else, suing in the name of said county and for their use, for injuries or damages received on account of dishonest, fraudulent, immoral, or improper conduct in the administration of the business so licensed, such bond to be fixed and approved by the board. Such license fees, charges, or taxes shall be in addition to all other taxes or assessments heretofore or hereafter levied by said county, and all funds received from same shall be paid into the county depository as general funds of said county;
(18)
To adopt rules regulating the operation of the board;
(19)
To adopt a civil service system covering county employees and employees of elected county officers pursuant to article IX, section I, paragraph I of the Constitution of the State of Georgia of 1983;
(20)
To take any action permitted by article IX, section II, paragraph III of the Constitution of the State of Georgia;
(21)
To authorize all contracts involving the expenditure of county funds in excess of $5,000.00, except for contracts of employment;
(22)
To undertake and carry out community redevelopment programs pursuant to article IX, section II, paragraph VII of the Constitution of the State of Georgia of 1983; and
(23)
To make appointments to independent boards, agencies, and bodies from the recommendations of the Chairperson/County Executive or of any member of the Board of Commissioners.
(b)
In addition to the powers enumerated in subsection (a) of this section, the board may adopt all such ordinances or regulations as it may deem advisable, not in conflict with the general laws of this state and of the United States, for the governing and policing of the county for the purpose of protecting and preserving the health, safety, welfare, and morals of the citizens of the county and for the implementation and enforcement of the powers and duties of the board, within the classes of subjects and areas of regulation enumerated below:
(1)
To control and regulate the operation of and running of bicycles, automobiles, motorcycles, motor scooters, buses, taxicabs, trucks, wagons, and any and all kinds of vehicles operated in, upon, over, and across the roads, streets, lanes, alleys, sidewalks, parks, plazas, squares, and public places in said county and outside the corporate limits of municipalities situated therein, whether such vehicles are propelled by hand, foot, animal, steam, electricity, gasoline, or other motive power; to prescribe and fix speed limits and speed zones for all of the enumerated vehicles; to erect stop and warning signs and signals at dangerous intersections or places and at schools or other public places; to prescribe and establish lanes and directional signs, signals, and markings to control the direction or flow of traffic for all such vehicles, including limitation of travel to one direction and including markings, signals, and devices to control and regulate the manner of turning at intersections; to regulate and control, as well as to prohibit entirely, the parking, stopping, and standing of all such vehicles on or adjacent to such streets and public places; to impound such vehicles involved in violations of traffic ordinances or regulations; to restrict and limit the size and weight of all such vehicles operated on such streets and public places; to regulate and establish routes to be followed by trucks and other heavy or slow-moving vehicles; to regulate and control, by permits or otherwise, and to prohibit entirely, the times, routes, and manner of conduct of parades, motorcades, and other assemblages of all such vehicles, and public address systems or other noisemaking devices on such streets and public places; to regulate and control the manner of operation of all such vehicles along, over, and across all such streets and ways so as to prohibit and prevent the careless and reckless operation of same in such manner as would be hazardous to persons or property; to regulate and control in any and all of the foregoing respects all travel by pedestrians and equestrians along, over, and across such streets, ways, and public places; and to do any and all things to provide for the safety of persons and property using such roads, streets, lanes, alleys, sidewalks, parks, plazas, squares, and public places and of persons and property situated adjacent thereto; and any and all things necessary or incident to accomplishment of any of the foregoing powers, including the authority to require registration of the enumerated vehicles and of their owners and to prescribe standards of mechanical safety for such vehicles and qualifications of operators thereof. To carry out all or any of the foregoing powers, the board is authorized to adopt as county ordinances all or such portions of O.C.G.A. Ch. 6, Tit. 40, relating to the uniform rules of the road, as to the board may seem appropriate; and the board may adopt other additional ordinances and regulations, not in conflict with O.C.G.A. Tit. 40, and prescribe punishment for violation of same not to exceed the limits set forth in subsection (c) of this section;
(2)
To adopt rules and regulations for the promotion of health and quarantine in the unincorporated area of said county, as are authorized by law or not inconsistent with general laws or regulations of the state department of human resources or the Dade County Board of Health, and to prescribe penalties and punishment for violations thereof. It is not the purpose or intent of this paragraph [subsection] to interfere with or restrict the operation of the Dade County Board of Health within the unincorporated area of Dade County, but to provide for the implementation of [the] same through the ordinances of the board of commissioners, and to promote more adequate health and quarantine provisions in said county, and to that end the board of commissioners is authorized to adopt all or any portion of the regulations of the Dade County Board of Health, as the same may be amended from time to time, and to prescribe additional regulations not inconsistent therewith, and to prescribe penalties and punishment for violation of any such ordinances and regulations, which penalties and punishments may be enforced and imposed by the court having jurisdiction over offenses against county ordinances. Said health and quarantine powers shall extend to and embrace to health and quarantine of animals as well as persons;
(3)
To prevent dogs, horses, mules, cattle, hogs, sheep, goats, chickens, and all other animals, or any one or more kinds of such animals, from running at large in the unincorporated area of said county; to prevent the keeping of any animal or animals or to regulate the manner and numbers in which they may be kept; to take up and impound any of such animals and to punish all owners or other persons keeping animals for failure or refusal to obey any such ordinance and to fix penalties and charges to be paid for release of such impounded animals; to provide for the sale or disposition of unclaimed animals impounded; to levy and collect a tax upon dogs kept in said county and to provide for registration of dogs; and to do any and all things necessary to carry out the purposes of this paragraph [subsection] for the public interest;
(4)
To prescribe penalties and punishment for the violation of zoning ordinances, building codes (including electrical, plumbing, heating, and air conditioning regulations), and all other lawful ordinances adopted by the board pursuant to this or any other law in force in said county;
(5)
To provide ordinances for the preservation and protection of county property and equipment and the administration and use of county facilities, such as parks, playgrounds, and swimming pools, by the public, and to prescribe penalties and punishment for violations thereof;
(6)
To prescribe fire safety regulations not inconsistent with general law, relating to both fire prevention and detection and to firefighting, and to prescribe penalties and punishment for violation thereof;
(7)
To prohibit or regulate and control the erection and maintenance of signs, billboards, trees, shrubs, fences, buildings, and any and all other structures or obstructions upon or adjacent to the right-of-way of streets and roads within the unincorporated area of said county, and to prescribe penalties and punishment for violation of such ordinances; and
(8)
To adopt ordinances and regulations for the prevention of idleness, loitering, vagrancy, disorderly conduct, public drunkenness, and disturbing the peace in the unincorporated area of said county and to prohibit the playing of lotteries therein, and to prohibit or regulate such other conduct and activities within said area of Dade County which, while not constituting an offense against the general laws of this state, is deemed by the board to be detrimental and offensive to the peace, good order, and dignity of Dade County and to the welfare and morals of the citizens thereof.
(c)
The board is authorized to adopt ordinances prescribing penalties and punishment for violation of any and all ordinances adopted by the board to carry out any of the provisions of this section or other provisions of this act or of any other law, and to prescribe maximum penalties and punishment for violation of same, except that the same shall in no event exceed a fine of $1,000.00 or imprisonment in the county jail for 60 days or both such fine and imprisonment.
(1991 Ga. Laws, page 3893, § 9; Ord. No. 06-05-08, 6-5-2008; 2009 Ga Laws, page 4427).
Sec. 1.10. - County manager.
The office of County Manager of Dade County is created pursuant to O.C.G.A. § 36-5-22 to administer the affairs of the county and exercise those administrative powers, duties, and responsibilities vested in such office by the board [of commissioners], including, but not limited to, the power to sign checks or warrants against county funds and otherwise order disbursement of those funds.
(1991 Ga. Laws, page 3893, § 10)
Sec. 1.11. - Audits.
The board [of commissioners] may have the books and the accounts of the tax commissioner, custodian of county funds, sheriff, and such other officers, as may be necessary, audited annually by a certified public accountant of this state who shall be paid from county funds. Said audit shall be filed in the office of the Chairman of the Board of Commissioners of Dade County and shall at all times be subject to inspection by any citizen or taxpayer of said county. A summary of said audit shall be published in the official organ of Dade County within 30 days after it shall have been completed.
(1991 Ga. Laws, page 3893, § 11)
Sec. 1.12. - Budgeting; control of expenditures.
(a)
The county will comply with O.C.G.A. Ch. 81, Tit. 36, relating to local government budgets and audits, as well as the following provisions of this section.
(b)
The chairman shall serve as budget officer for the county. The chairman shall submit to the board not later than the regular May meeting of each year a revenue estimate for the following year and a proposed budget governing the expenditures of all funds expected to be available to the county for the following calendar year and shall include proposed expenditures for capital outlay and public works projects. The chairman shall submit to the board at the time the proposed budget is submitted a report containing information relating to the financial affairs of the county which is relevant to establishing the annual budget.
(c)
At the time the proposed budget is submitted to the board, the chairman shall cause to be published in the official organ of Dade County a copy of the proposed budget along with the public notices required by O.C.G.A. § 36-81-5(e). It shall be the duty of the board to hold a meeting at the time and place specified in the notice for the purpose of conducting such public hearing. The board shall review the proposed budget at such public hearing and may adopt the same as submitted by the chairman or make such amendments thereto as the board may deem necessary to maintain the county in sound financial condition. The board may continue the hearing on the proposed budget from time to time, but the time of and the place where the hearing is continued shall be publicly announced at the previous hearing. The board shall adopt the proposed budget as submitted or as amended by the board as the budget for the county for the following calendar year by not later than December 31. (Res. of 12-7-1993)
(d)
The final budget adopted by the board shall constitute the board's appropriations of all funds for the calendar year covered by the budget. The budget may be amended during the calendar year which it covers upon the board taking formal action for such purpose at a regular meeting of the board. Prior to taking such action, the board shall cause to be published in the official organ of Dade County a notice setting forth the proposed changes in the budget and a summary of the reasons therefor. Said notice shall also state the time and place of the regular meeting of the board at which action to amend the budget is to be taken. Said notice shall be published at least ten days prior to the date of the meeting. No increase in appropriations shall be made without provision also being made to finance such increase.
(e)
No expenditure of county funds shall be made except in accordance with the county budget, or amendments thereto, adopted by the board. The chairman shall enforce compliance with this requirement by all departments, offices, or agencies of the county government, including elected county officers, and to this end shall institute a system of quarterly allotments of all moneys appropriated and budgeted.
(1991 Ga. Laws, page 3893, § 12)
Sec. 1.13. - Clerk.
Subject to confirmation by the board [of commissioners], the chairman is authorized to appoint a Clerk of Dade County. Any citizen of said county, other than a member of the board, shall be eligible to hold said office of clerk of said board and shall receive a salary for his or her services to be fixed by the board, which salary shall be paid in equal monthly installments. Said clerk, before entering upon his or her duties, shall give bond with some responsible surety company authorized to do business in Georgia, as his or her surety, in the sum of $50,000.00, to be approved by the board, the premium on said bond to be paid by the county, payable to the judge of the probate court of said county and the judge's successors in office and conditioned upon the faithful performance of the clerk's duties as such clerk and to account for any and all funds, property, or effects which may come into his or her hands as such clerk or otherwise, which said bond shall be filed with the judge of the probate court of said county and recorded on the judge's minutes and may be sued on in like manner as the bond of the members of the board of commissioners. The clerk shall keep minutes of all meetings of the board, an inventory of all properties, and such books and records as may be required of the clerk by the board and do such other acts and things as may be required of the clerk by law or by the board.
(1991 Ga. Laws, page 3893, § 13)
Sec. 1.14. - Records; minutes.
The clerk of the board [of commissioners] shall keep a proper and accurate book of minutes wherein shall appear all the acts, orders, and proceedings of the board, in chronological order. The minute books of the board shall be open to public inspection at all times during the regular office hours, and certified copies of any entries therein shall be furnished by said clerk to any person requesting same upon payment of a reasonable fee, to be paid into the county treasury as other funds, to be assessed by the board in an amount sufficient to defray the cost of preparing [the] same.
(1991 Ga. Laws, page 3893, § 14)
Secs. 1.15—2.00. - Reserved.
