Chapter 58 - LAW ENFORCEMENT[1]
Footnotes:
--- (1) ---
Cross reference— Administration, ch. 2; courts, ch. 34; emergency services, ch. 42; fire prevention and protection, ch. 50; personnel, ch. 78; traffic and vehicles, ch. 98.
State Law reference— Obstruction or hindering of law enforcement officers, O.C.G.A. § 16-10-24; arrest of persons, O.C.G.A. § 17-4-1 et seq.; law enforcement officers and agencies, O.C.G.A. tit. 35; state grants for public purposes, O.C.G.A. § 36-40-20 et seq.

ARTICLE I. - IN GENERAL

Sec. 58-1. - Department of police rules and regulations adopted.
The rules and regulations of the department of police, a copy of which is on file in the office of the city clerk, are hereby adopted.
(Code 1977, § 18-5)
Sec. 58-2. - Auxiliary police; compensation; department of police jurisdiction; minimum shift time.
Each month, the auxiliary police shall be paid the amount determined by the mayor and council for each eight hours of service performed. The force shall be completely under the jurisdiction of the department of police. A minimum four-hour shift shall be worked.
(Code 1977, § 18-4)
Secs. 58-3—58-25. - Reserved.
ARTICLE II. - ARREST

Sec. 58-26. - Warrant not required in certain cases; disposition of arrested persons.
(a)
An arrest for a violation of this Code or of an ordinance of the city may be made by a law enforcement officer either under a warrant or without a warrant if the offense is committed in his/her presence or within his/her immediate knowledge; if the offender is endeavoring to escape; if the officer has probable cause to believe that an act of family violence, as defined in O.C.G.A. § 19-13-1, has been committed; or for other cause if there is likely to be failure of justice for want of a judicial officer to issue a warrant.
(b)
Any person arrested for committing any offense against any provision of this Code or any ordinance of this city shall be entitled to bail or bond as specified in section 34-46 or as otherwise provided for by law, or confined in jail until the presiding judge can hear such case.
(c)
The chief magistrate of the county magistrate's court or other magistrates of the court may issue city arrest warrants made returnable to the municipal court for any offense against this Code or any other ordinance of the city.
(Code 1977, § 8-1(a), (c), (d))
State Law reference— Use of citations, O.C.G.A. § 15-10-63; magistrate court serving as municipal court, O.C.G.A. § 15-10-150 et seq.; authorization of arrests, O.C.G.A. § 17-4-20; taking of persons arrested before judicial officer within 48 hours of arrest, O.C.G.A. § 17-4-62.
Sec. 58-27. - Warrant required upon information from another person.
An officer shall not make an arrest until a warrant has been issued in any case where information of an offense against any of the provisions of this Code or other ordinance of the city is derived from another person. In case such offender shall fail to appear on notice, he/she shall be guilty of contempt of court, and it shall be the duty of the police to arrest and bring him/her to trial.
(Code 1977, § 8-2; Ord. No. 93-08, § 8-2, 9-7-93)
Sec. 58-28. - Citizen's duty to assist officers.
It shall be the duty of any citizen to assist any officer of the city when called upon by such officer to aid in the arrest of an offender or to suppress an affray or breach of the peace. It shall be unlawful for any person to refuse to assist any officer of the city when called upon.
(Code 1977, § 8-3)
Sec. 58-29. - Form of warrant.
The presiding judge of the municipal court shall determine the form of warrant to be issued by the court, provided such form has been approved by the mayor and council and filed in the office of the city clerk.
(Code 1977, § 8-4)
State Law reference— Form of warrant for arrest, O.C.G.A. § 17-4-46.
Secs. 58-30—58-50. - Reserved.
ARTICLE III. - UNCLAIMED PROPERTY
DIVISION 1. - GENERALLY

Sec. 58-51. - Authority of department of police to sell at public auction.
The department of police shall have the authority to sell at public outcry to the highest bidder for cash any and all of the articles of personal property that has come into their hands and which, after diligent effort has been made to ascertain the true owner thereof without success, remains unclaimed for a period of at least three months, except contraband weapons or those articles otherwise provided for by the laws of the state.
(Code 1977, § 21½-1)
Sec. 58-52. - Records required.
It shall be the duty of the department of police to maintain a separate and complete catalog record of all property coming into their hands, such property to be identified in detail by its usual name, make and model, manufacturer's name and serial number, if any, and if no identifying name or numbers, to be fully described on such catalog record as to its physical properties and appearance. Such record shall also show the date such property came into the hands of the department of police and the disposal thereof.
(Code 1977, § 21½-2)
Sec. 58-53. - Responsibility to try to find owner.
(a)
It shall be the duty of the department of police to make a diligent effort to find the true owner of any article of personal property coming into their hands and, if such owner can be found, to hand over such property to him/her. If the true owner of any such article cannot be found or refuses to claim the property, and the property remains unclaimed for a period of not less than three months next preceding the date of sale as provided in this section, the department of police may proceed to sell such article.
(b)
The department of police may, at least 90 days prior to sale of any unclaimed property coming into its hands:
(1)
Deliver to the county sheriff's department a list of all unclaimed articles in its possession, together with a brief description of the articles, which list shall not become public records, but which shall be used to assist in locating the lawful owner thereof.
(2)
Where any person or entity is believed to have an interest in the property, a notice shall be mailed to the last known address of such person or entity containing a statement that, if satisfactory proof of claim is not presented by the owner to the holder on or before a date, which is 30 days prior to the date for sale of such abandoned property, the abandoned property will be sold.
(Code 1977, § 21½-3)
Sec. 58-54. - Filing of claims; hearings; storage charge; appeals.
Any person claiming an interest in any abandoned property in the hands of the department of police shall file a claim thereto in the form prescribed by the department of police, at least 30 days prior to the sale date for unclaimed property as provided in this section:
(1)
The chief of police shall consider any claim filed under this section, and may hold a hearing, subpoena witnesses, and receive evidence concerning it, and make a determination as to whether or not to disallow the claim or allow the claim and deliver the property.
(2)
If a hearing is held, he/she shall prepare a finding and decision in writing on each claim filed, stating the substance of the evidence heard by him/her and the reasons for his/her decision. The decision shall be a public record.
(3)
If such claim is allowed, he/she may charge, in his/her discretion on all items of a value of more than $25.00, storage for the items at such rate as may be reasonably established by the council police committee of the city, and refuse delivery of the article until and unless such storage shall be paid.
(4)
Any person aggrieved by the decision of the chief of police may appeal his/her decision to the mayor and council within ten days of such decision by filing a notice of appeal setting forth all the particulars of the claim with the city clerk. Such appeal shall be handled as all other appeals to mayor and council.
(Code 1977, § 21½-4)
Sec. 58-55. - City use of unclaimed property.
(a)
Notwithstanding the other provisions of this article, the city shall have the right to claim and use any unclaimed property coming into possession of the city, subject to the restrictions and duties contained in this article.
(b)
All requests for use of such property, by any employee or agency of the city, shall be made in writing to the department of police on the form provided by the city clerk, and shall identify the property, state the intended use and duration thereof, intended department or individual, and where such property is to be maintained.
(c)
Each request shall become effective upon approval of the department of police and council police committee, and the unclaimed property shall then become the property of the city.
(Code 1977, § 21½-10)
Secs. 58-56—58-65. - Reserved.
DIVISION 2. - PUBLIC SALE

Sec. 58-66. - Frequency; cash terms.
On the first Monday in May, or more frequently as established by the department of police in each year hereafter, the department of police shall hold a public sale of all unclaimed articles of personal property held by them for at least five months immediately preceding the date of sale at the headquarters of the department of police on Bank Street, Smyrna, Georgia. All articles sold shall be sold for cash to the highest bidder on an "as is" basis, and no warranties of any nature, either expressed or implied, either as to merchantable title, quality or performance are made by the department of police or the city.
(Code 1977, § 21½-5)
Sec. 58-67. - Advertisement.
The sale referred to in section 58-66 shall be advertised in a newspaper of general circulation in the city once each week for two weeks immediately preceding the next sale date. The advertisement shall be of sufficient size and type to be easily read and understood by the general public and shall state definitely the time and place of such sale; that it shall be open to the public; and that all sales are to be made to the highest bidder for cash. Such advertisement may refer to the sale by any appropriate name and shall state that only unclaimed property which has come into the possession of the department of police is being sold; that the department of police and city makes no warranties whatsoever, either expressed or implied, as to merchantable title, quality or performance, and all articles are sold "as is."
(Code 1977, § 21½-6)
Sec. 58-68. - Conduct of sale.
The department of police shall appoint a licensed auctioneer, a member of its own force or any other individual to conduct the sale under the guidance of an employee of the department and more than one such person may act at any sale, either alternately or at the same time as the circumstances may dictate and in the discretion of the employee of the department who is in charge of the sale. The auctioneer or other individual acting shall be the sole arbiter in the case of a disputed sale, and he/she shall not make a sale until all bidding on the article offered has ceased. However, there shall be no required number of bids before a sale is made. Any article advertised or offered for sale may be withdrawn from sale at any time prior to delivery.
(Code 1977, § 21½-7)
Sec. 58-69. - Required announcement to be made at sale.
It shall be the duty of the auctioneer or other person holding such sales to make a public announcement before opening such sale that the department of police does not warrant title to any article, nor is there any other warranty, either expressed or implied, as to any article sold; that all sales are final and all articles are sold "as is." It shall be the duty of such auctioneer or other person in charge to make this announcement at intervals during the progress of the sales.
(Code 1977, § 21½-8)
Sec. 58-70. - Disposition of sale proceeds.
It shall be the duty of the department of police to make a true accounting to the finance department of all the property sold and money collected from the sales conducted as provided in this article, which money shall be used for city purposes.
(Code 1977, § 21½-9)
