Chapter 90 - STREETS, SIDEWALKS AND OTHER PUBLIC PLACES[1]
Footnotes:
--- (1) ---
Charter reference— Authority to lay out, etc., streets, sidewalks, etc., § 47; eminent domain, § 48 et seq.; improvements, § 58 et seq.
Cross reference— Administration, ch. 2; buildings and building regulations, ch. 18; cemeteries, ch. 26; floods, ch. 54; manufactured homes and trailers, ch. 62; building fires in streets, § 66-8; parks and recreation, ch. 70; peddlers and solicitors, ch. 74; signs, ch. 82; solid waste, ch. 86; traffic and vehicles, ch. 98; utilities, ch. 102; vegetation, ch. 106; vehicles for hire, ch. 110; subdivision regulations, app. B; franchises, app. C; design specifications for storm drainage, roads, construction, app. D.
State Law reference— Obstructing highways, streets, sidewalks or other public passages, O.C.G.A. § 16-11-43; eminent domain, O.C.G.A. tit. 22; highways, bridges and ferries, O.C.G.A. tit. 32; municipal street systems, O.C.G.A. § 32-4-90 et seq.; obstructing, encroaching on or injuring public roads, leasing of property by department of transportation, O.C.G.A. § 32-6-1; legislative authority required for municipal grant of right to obstruct street, O.C.G.A. § 36-30-10; municipal streets, alleys and sidewalks generally, O.C.G.A. § 36-34-3; street improvements, O.C.G.A. § 36-39-1 et seq.; state grants for street-lighting facilities, O.C.G.A. § 36-40-20 et seq.

ARTICLE I. - IN GENERAL

Sec. 90-1. - Cuts; excavations; permit required.
No person shall in any way remove, cut, dig into or tear up any portion of any paved street or sidewalk of the city for any purpose, without first obtaining a permit therefor from the city superintendent of public works.
(Code 1977, § 20-1)
Sec. 90-2. - Driveways—Permit to construct; compliance with regulations; not to obstruct drainage.
It shall be unlawful for any property owner, lessee or tenant, to construct, establish, open, grade, or cause to have constructed, or in any manner form or use a driveway, or other opening from private property into any street, highway or thoroughfare in the city or entered upon or across any sidewalk in the city, without first obtaining a permit for such work from the superintendent of public works. When such permit is issued, the owner, lessee, tenant or other constructing party shall conform to all requirements of the standard specifications of the city in use at the time for that portion of the driveway from the curb or gutter line to the property line, and such constructing party shall conform to all grades established and other special requirements in effect at the time. In no event, however, shall any driveway be constructed in the city so as to prevent or obstruct the free flow or passage of water in the gutters of any streets in the city, or in any streets themselves having no gutters constructed thereon.
(Code 1977, § 20-3)
Sec. 90-3. - Same—Prevention of dirt going onto street.
It shall be unlawful for any property owner, lessee or tenant, to maintain within the city, any driveway opening onto the sidewalks or streets of the city unless such driveway is covered with chert, stone, concrete, asphalt, brick or some similar material that will prevent dirt from such private property from washing or being carried on or upon the sidewalk or street. Where a driveway is joint, all of such joint owners and users, lessees or tenants, shall be responsible for the maintenance of such driveway.
(Code 1977, § 20-4)
Sec. 90-4. - Private utilities within the right-of-way.
No private underground utilities, such as lawn sprinkler systems, yard lighting, etc., shall be installed within a public right-of-way or public easement except by written permit issued by the public works department. The owner of the private utility shall be responsible for damage to any public utility or other property which is incurred by the installation, maintenance or repair of the private facility as well as all repair cost of the private owned facilities should they be damaged during installation, maintenance or repair of any of the public utilities, sidewalks etc., within said right-of-way or easement. The city shall not be liable for damage it causes to any unpermitted private utility within said right-of-way or easement.
(Ord. No. 2019-14 , 8-5-19)
Secs. 90-5—90-30. - Reserved.
ARTICLE II. - OBSTRUCTIONS

Sec. 90-31. - Generally.
It shall be unlawful for any person to place or maintain, or cause to be placed or maintained, in any of the streets or in any of the easements, or on any of the public sidewalks of the city, any obstruction of any kind or character whatever, except by consent of the mayor and council, given at a regularly constituted meeting of that body and entered upon the minutes of the meeting at which the consent is given.
(Code 1977, § 20-2)
Sec. 90-32. - Unlawful deposits in catchbasins, storm sewers, easements, road rights-of-way.
It shall be unlawful for any group or individual to obstruct or restrict drainage by depositing leaves, trash, garbage or any other material within enclosed catchbasins, storm sewers, easements or road rights-of-way.
(Code 1977, § 20-2.1)
Sec. 90-33. - Fences and other permanent structures.
It shall be unlawful for any group or individual to obstruct or restrict drainage on recorded easements by the installation of any fence or any permanent structure. Where fences or any permanent structures exist on any city easement and it becomes necessary to remove the items from the easements, the expense of the reconstruction and reinstallation of such items shall be the responsibility of the property owners.
(Code 1977, § 20-2.2)
Sec. 90-34. - Unlawful deposits on streets.
It shall be unlawful for any individual or group to deposit any material on the streets of the city that shall cause an obstacle to traffic or any unsightly condition. This section shall apply to leaves, trash, dirt, sand, gravel, mud or any other foreign material. It shall be left to the discretion of the superintendent of streets to determine which deposits constitute a nuisance.
(Code 1977, § 20-2.3)
Sec. 90-35. - Notice of violation; penalty.
Upon violation of sections 90-32 through 90-34 coming to the attention of the city marshal or police officer, he/she shall direct the violator to correct the infraction immediately. If the condition has not been corrected, or it reoccurs, the marshal or police officer may cite the accused to appear in the municipal court.
(Code 1977, § 20-2.4; Ord. No. 2004-38, 1-18-04)
Sec. 90-36. - Bicycles, skateboards, roller skates, roller skis, and similar vehicles.
(a)
Except as authorized herein, it shall be unlawful and may be punishable as a misdemeanor for any person to operate or ride a bicycle, skateboard, roller skates, or similar vehicles on any public sidewalk within the city or common area of the city. No minor shall be charged with offenses of this section except after failure of such person to obey the lawful warning of an authorized city officer to cease such operation.
(b)
Any person may operate or ride a bicycle, skate board, roller skates, roller skis, or other similar vehicles on any trail designated by the city as a public multi-use trail within the incorporated limits of the city. A multi-use trail shall be defined as paved or unpaved trail with a minimum width of ten feet designed according to Georgia Department of Transportation's specifications for shared use trails, which may be amended from time to time.
(c)
Any person 12 years of age or younger may operate or ride a bicycle on any public sidewalk within the city.
(Ord. No. 97-06, 2-17-97; Ord. No. 2009-9, 8-3-09)
Secs. 90-37—90-40. - Reserved.
ARTICLE III. - UTILITY FACILITIES CONTROL, COORDINATION AND BEAUTIFICATION

Sec. 90-41. - Short title.
This article shall be known as the "Utility Facilities Control, Coordination and Beautification Ordinance."
(Ord. No. 96-11, § 1, 10-21-96)
Sec. 90-42. - Purpose.
The purpose of this article is to control the streets, easements and public ways of the city, and the areas above and below them; to beautify and improve the visual environment of the streets, easements and public ways; to deal with the growth in communications services and the demand for such services, and the resulting additional wires and other facilities being placed on, over and under the streets, easements and public ways; to cope with the anticipated future growth in communications services and resulting wires and other facilities being placed on, over and under the streets, easements and public ways; to rectify the situation of certain companies having placed wires and other facilities on and over the streets, easements and public ways unlawfully and without obtaining the required franchises and permits; to provide a method by which the city engineer, or other designated official, will have and be permitted to maintain a current and accurate record of all communications and other facilities existing on, over and under the streets, easements and public ways; to regulate the amount and placement of wires, poles, cables and other facilities that currently exist, and that will be installed in the future on, over and under the streets, easements and public ways; to regulate wires, poles, cables and other facilities of utilities and communications companies to provide an environmentally sound, aesthetically pleasing and safe environment within the streets, easements and public ways; to provide mechanisms for minimizing the delay and risk for the city in widening roads, utilizing its streets, easements and public ways, and regulating and coordinating the placement of additional utility facilities on and over the streets, easements and public ways; and for other purposes.
(Ord. No. 96-11, § 2, 10-21-96)
Sec. 90-43. - Definitions.
[As used in this article, the following words and phrases shall have the meanings ascribed to them:]
Person means any individual, group or entity who constructs, operates, owns, controls, or provides (1) telecommunications facilities or services (including without limitation, a local exchange carrier, interexchange carrier, reseller, competitive access provider, cellular or personal communications services provider or telephone company); (2) telephone, data, voice, television, cable television, video, electric or gas facilities, or services; (3) fiber optic, coaxial, electric or other wire or cable or conduits, ducts, poles, towers and related facilities (except lighting facilities, traffic control devices, and police and fire alarms). The term "person" includes, without limitation, successors, assignees, and transferees of any such individual, group or entity.
Public ways means the streets, easements, rights-of-way, public ways and property of the city, and shall include but not be limited to areas above and below grade level.
Renovation. The term "major renovation" means significant and substantial changes to the look or structure of facilities. Such term shall not include repairs or replacements, such as replacing one cable with another cable.
User means any person who (1) utilizes public ways to provide the facilities or services described under "person"; or (2) constructs, operates, owns or controls such facilities in or upon public ways. The term "user" includes, without limitation, successors, assignees and transferees of any such person.
(Ord. No. 96-11, § 3, 10-21-96)
Sec. 90-44. - Control, coordination and beautification.
All persons shall use public ways in accordance with the controls stated in this article, and in a manner that beautifies the public ways and that minimizes the negative visual impact of such use. Applicants for permits and franchises shall provide as part of those applications (1) a description of the visual impact of proposed uses and the manner in which the applicant intends to beautify and minimize any negative visual impact; and (2) the manner in which the requirements of this article shall be met.
(Ord. No. 96-11, § 4, 10-21-96)
Sec. 90-45. - Standards.
The following standards shall be utilized by users:
(1)
Design, construction and maintenance shall beautify and visually enhance the public ways to the extent reasonably feasible.
(2)
Users shall install wires, cables and related facilities below grade.
(3)
Conduit, poles, wires, cables and related facilities shall be reasonably shared by users, and reasonable shared access shall be negotiated among users.
(4)
Users shall cooperate and communicate with each other and with the city to coordinate and promote joint scheduling, design, construction, usage, maintenance and removal of facilities within the public ways.
(5)
Users shall install additional plants, shrubbery and other landscaping after trenching, drilling, digging, or other construction, removal or maintenance activity as approved by the city.
(6)
Users shall provide as-built drawings and photographs to the city within 30 days following substantial completion of facilities or their removal.
(7)
Users who do not hold a franchise or permit for facilities and services shall not construct or maintain facilities in, on, under or over the public ways, and shall remove existing facilities.
(8)
Users shall not construct facilities or conduct major renovations in, on under, or over the public ways without posting a security fund with the city in addition to any bonds, letters of credit, or other funds that may be required in said user's franchise. The required terms and conditions of such security fund shall be available in the office of the city engineer.
(Ord. No. 96-11, § 5, 10-21-96; Ord. No. 20-01, 8-21-00)
Sec. 90-46. - Implementation.
The above standards shall apply and shall be implemented as follows:
(1)
The standards apply to and shall be implemented by all users for facilities within Architectural Design Districts ADD-1 and ADD-2, Urban Design Districts UDD-1 and UDD-2, and other districts designated by the city by zoning ordinance or otherwise.
(2)
The standards apply to all users who, on the effective date of this article (or at any time thereafter), were utilizing any public way without having received on or before the date of utilization, a franchise or permit from the city to so utilize such public ways.
(3)
The standards apply and shall be implemented as conditions to issuing new franchises, permits and authorizations by the city.
(4)
The standards shall apply to users with respect to facilities on, under or over the public ways. Notwithstanding anything to the contrary in this article, the standards shall not apply to existing facilities, their maintenance or repair. However, the standards shall apply to major renovation of existing facilities.
(5)
The standards shall apply to the areas and users stated in this section and not in any other manner or to any other person except as expressly provided herein.
(Ord. No. 96-11, § 6, 10-21-96)
