ARTICLE I. - IN GENERAL

Sec. 8-1. - Definitions.
The following words where used in this chapter, unless the context requires otherwise, shall be deemed to have the following meanings:
Administrator means the city clerk for the purpose of licensing of businesses under this chapter. He may be assisted by employees of the clerk's office.
Business means any business, trade, occupation, profession, avocation or calling of any kind for gain or profit, directly or indirectly; provided that this shall not include any business, trade, profession and the like licensed by the state unless city licensing is allowed by state law, nor shall it include any business operating solely under a franchise granted by the city.
Engaged in business means performing any act of selling any goods or services or soliciting business or offering goods or services for sale for payment in an attempt to make a profit, including the sales or services of the character as made by a wholesaler or retailer or involved in any of the functions performed as a manufacturer, either as an owner, operator or agent in any business within this city.
(Code 1979, § 9-1-1; Code 1993, § 6-1)
Sec. 8-2. - License required.
Every business in this city or person doing business or engaged in business within the city is hereby required to have a business license from the city for the privilege of engaging in a business, profession or occupation within the corporate limits, unless city licensing is prohibited under state law or the activity is exempted by this Code.
(Code 1979, § 9-1-2; Code 1993, § 6-2)
Sec. 8-3. - Separate businesses.
Where a person conducts a business at more than one store, location or place, each store, location or place shall be considered a separate business under the terms of this chapter and a separate license shall be required. Should more than one business on which a business tax is levied by this Code be conducted in or in conjunction with one place or kind of business, each business shall be separately licensed under this chapter.
(Code 1979, § 9-1-3; Code 1993, § 6-3)
Sec. 8-4. - Application; temporary business.
Every person required to procure a license under the provisions of this Code shall submit an application for the license to the administrator, which application shall conform to the requirements of this section in addition to any other provisions of this Code.
(1)
Unless otherwise provided in this Code, each application shall be a written statement upon forms provided by the city and submitted before the last day of February of each year or within ten days of opening a new business or reopening of a business under a new ownership.
(2)
Each application shall contain the following information:
a.
Name and home address of the applicant if an individual, or home office address if a corporation or partnership.
b.
Place where the proposed business is to be located.
c.
Kind and class of business to be carried on.
d.
Name and home addresses of the partners, if a partnership.
e.
Names and home addresses of the officers and directors, if a corporation.
f.
Any information as may be required by the administrator for the purpose of determining the amount of any business taxes to be collected under this Code.
g.
Any additional information which the administrator may find reasonably necessary to the fair administration of this part of the Code which may include a complete record of all arrests and convictions against the applicant and every partner, officer or director of the applicant for violations of any and all laws and ordinances of the city, state or federal government other than minor traffic violations.
(3)
Each application shall be signed and sworn to by the applicant if an individual, or by a partner if a partnership, or by an officer if a corporation.
(4)
All information furnished or secured under the authority of this chapter shall be kept in strict confidence by the city; shall not be subject to public inspection; and shall be utilized solely by the officers of the city responsible for administering the provisions of this chapter and the city's business taxes.
(5)
False statements on any application for a license shall be grounds for immediate revocation of the license or denial of the application.
(6)
Any application, license and registration fees or business taxes required under this Code shall accompany the application.
(7)
Transient and temporary businesses shall pay any fees or taxes provided for in this Code. No license granted these businesses shall be valid after 180 days.
(Code 1979, § 9-1-4; Code 1993, § 6-4)
Sec. 8-5. - Administration of chapter; license inspectors.
(a)
The administrator shall administer and enforce the provisions of this chapter for the application for and issuance of business licenses under this part of the Code.
(b)
With the assistance of the administrator, and under the direction of the city manager, one or more license inspectors for the city shall seek out violations of this Code, particularly the business licensing and regulation portions thereof, and may issue to any business found to be in violation of this Code a notice or demand to appear before the municipal court for a determination of the matter by the municipal court.
(c)
Any notice or demand to appear before the municipal court issued hereunder shall provide a statement of alleged violations which may constitute grounds for the revocation of any city business license or permit.
(d)
If there is reason to believe that a person notified of violations hereunder may not attend the designated court session or correct the cited violation then the administrator may request that an arrest warrant or summons be issued thereon by the police department.
(Code 1979, § 9-1-5; Code 1993, § 6-5)
Sec. 8-6. - Duties of administrator.
The administrator shall have, among others, the following duties:
(1)
To prepare and provide the necessary forms for the registration and application for a business license and for the submission of any required information as may be necessary to properly administer and enforce the provisions of this chapter.
(2)
To issue to each person a business license within a reasonable time after the payment of the license fee assessed and any business taxes, property or other city taxes levied in this Code; provided, however, where under other portions of this Code, permits, certifications and compliance with enumerated conditions are required for the operation of the business, the administrator shall not issue a business license until the applicant exhibits to the administrator the obtained permits, certification and compliance.
(Code 1979, § 9-1-6; Code 1993, § 6-6)
Sec. 8-7. - Duration of license.
Any license referred to in this chapter shall automatically expire on December 31 of the year of its issuance.
(Code 1979, § 9-1-7; Code 1993, § 6-7)
Sec. 8-8. - Casual and isolated activity.
Except as otherwise provided in this chapter, nothing herein contained shall be interpreted so as to require any person who may engage in casual or isolated activity and commercial transactions, where they involve personal assets only and are not the principal occupation of the individual, to obtain a business license and pay a fee therefore.
(Code 1979, § 9-1-8; Code 1993, § 6-8)
Sec. 8-9. - Special daily business license.
In lieu of obtaining a business license as provided in this chapter, a person not maintaining a fixed place of business in the city may obtain from the city clerk a special daily business license which shall expire at midnight of the day for which it is issued. A new license shall be obtained for each day on which any type of business is to be conducted. Any person desiring to engage in a business licensed under this section shall obtain a license prior to engaging in business on the day for which the license is issued and pay all license fees and business taxes required under this Code.
(Code 1979, § 9-1-9; Code 1993, § 6-9)
Sec. 8-10. - Procedure for issuance.
(a)
If any provision of this Code provides for the review of an application for a license by a city officer designated therein, the administrator shall forward a copy of the application to that officer. The officer charged with the duty of reviewing the application shall make a recommendation thereon, favorable or otherwise, and shall return the recommendation to the administrator after receiving a copy of the application.
(b)
Upon the receipt of the recommendation of the reviewing officer as hereinabove provided, or upon the receipt of the application if no reviewing officer is designated, the administrator shall forward the recommendation and application to the city council for consideration and action at its next regularly scheduled public meeting, if approval by the city council is required.
(c)
No license shall be issued to any applicant whose place of business is not in full compliance with all minimum standard building codes adopted by the city.
(d)
No license shall be issued to any applicant who has any outstanding indebtedness to the city, including but not limited to property taxes, business license fees, business taxes, utility bills and any other taxes or assessments.
(e)
Upon the express approval of the city council, when so required, or otherwise upon a determination by the administrator that the application is in order and all requirements have been met, the administrator shall issue a business license to the applicant therefore, which license shall state the nature of the business authorized and bear the date of issuance and the signature of the administrator.
(f)
If the administrator determines that the application is not in order or any requirements for the license have not been met then the administrator shall deny the application and immediately provide written notice of the denial and the grounds therefore to applicant. The applicant may appeal the denial to the city council within ten days of the denial notice being issued. The city council shall hold a public hearing on the appeal within ten days of the appeal being filed with the city clerk. The council, within ten days of the hearing, may order the license granted with or without conditions or may affirm the denial of the application. The decision shall be based only upon a finding by the council that the administrator was correct or erred in the interpretation of the regulations involved or the facts of the case.
(g)
Unless otherwise provided in this chapter, all license applications shall be approved or disapproved within ten days of filing with the administrator.
(h)
Nothing contained in this chapter shall be construed as granting any person whose business is subject to municipal regulation any legal right to engage in that business.
(Code 1979, § 9-1-10; Code 1993, § 6-10)
Sec. 8-11. - Display of licenses and registrations.
All persons shall exhibit and display all licenses and registrations issued to them under this Code in some conspicuous place in their business establishment at which address the license or registration was issued. Any transient or nonresident person doing business within the city shall carry the license or registration either upon his person or in any vehicle or other conveyance which is used in the business and the person shall exhibit the same to any authorized enforcement officer of the city when so requested.
(Code 1979, § 9-1-11; Code 1993, § 6-11)
Sec. 8-12. - Renewal of licenses.
Each licensee shall make a written application for renewal on forms supplied by the administrator no later than the last day of February of each calendar year, which application may require substantially the same information as the initial application.
(Code 1979, § 9-1-12; Code 1993, § 6-12)
Sec. 8-13. - Revocation; suspension.
The city council after affording the licensee a five-day notice of the charges and opportunity to be heard with respect to any revocation proceedings may, if it finds this Code to have been violated by the licensee, his agent or employee in the operation of the business, revoke any and all city licenses in their entirety, suspend the licenses for a specified period of time, place the licensee on probation or place other conditions thereon as the council may deem necessary after a hearing thereon.
(Code 1979, § 9-1-13; Code 1993, § 6-13)
Sec. 8-14. - Change of address.
Any person licensed hereunder moving from one location to another shall notify the administrator of the move and the new address in writing on a form provided by the administrator no later than the day of moving. The same business license will be valid at the new location if the new location conforms to the zoning, subdivision and building regulations of the city and any other location transfer requirements of this Code.
(Code 1979, § 9-1-14; Code 1993, § 6-14)
Sec. 8-15. - Transfer of licenses.
Business licenses shall not be transferable except as provided in this section. In the event that the owner of a business holding a currently valid paid-up business license should sell or transfer the business to another person, the purchaser of the business shall obtain free of charge a new license in his name for the balance of the current term of the seller's business license, upon making application to the city clerk, and the purchaser shall be punishable for violation of this chapter if the transfer of the business license provided for in this section is not made before the transferee begins to engage in the business. At the date of renewal of the seller's business license, the buyer must obtain a new annual business license and pay all license fees and business taxes required by this Code and comply with all applicable provisions of this Code and all ordinances in the same manner as if he had been the original owner of the business.
(Code 1979, § 9-1-15; Code 1993, § 6-15)
Sec. 8-16. - Issuance of replacement licenses.
In the event that the city clerk is notified that the licensee has lost his copy of the license, he shall make a new copy, upon showing by the licensee that the required fees have been paid. In addition, the licensee shall be charged a fee as set forth in the schedule of fees and charges for the replacement license. Replacement licenses shall be signed by the clerk, and shall indicate the time and date upon which issued. The possession of a replacement license shall not be a defense to any charge of violation of this chapter except a charge made after the time of the issuance of the replacement license.
(Code 1979, § 9-1-16; Code 1993, § 6-16)
Sec. 8-17. - Special provisions for disabled veterans.
All disabled veterans desiring to enter business without paying city license fees or business taxes must present a state disability license to the city clerk, whereupon a city license will be issued and marked "FREE" on the face of the same.
(Code 1979, § 9-1-17; Code 1993, § 6-17)
Sec. 8-18. - Violations and penalties.
(a)
It shall be a violation of this chapter for any person, whether based in the city or elsewhere, to transact any business of a type for which this chapter requires a license, or to carry on any business for which a license is required, however briefly or however transitorily, without first obtaining a license to do so under the provisions of this chapter.
(b)
It shall be a violation of this chapter for any person, whether based in the city or elsewhere, made liable for obtaining a business license under this chapter, to fail to show the license or a copy thereof to any police officer within a reasonable time after the making of a demand therefore by the police officer.
(c)
It shall be a violation of this chapter to fail to pay the license fees required by this chapter by the date on which such payments are due.
(d)
Any person violating any of the provisions of this chapter shall, upon conviction in the municipal court of the city, be punished as provided in section 1-8.
(Code 1979, § 9-1-18; Code 1993, § 6-18)
Sec. 8-19. - Defense to prosecution.
It shall be a defense to any prosecution under this chapter for failing to obtain a business license before engaging in business, that a license has in fact been issued in the manner provided by law. It shall be presumed that no license has been issued unless at his trial, the accused produces in court his currently valid business license or a certified copy thereof. In no event shall the claim by the accused that he has been issued a currently valid business license which has been lost be sustained unless such person shall have first reported the alleged loss to the city clerk and made demand for the issuance of a new license. The report of loss or demand for issuance of a replacement license must have been made prior to the arrest for the violation for which the accused is charged.
(Code 1979, § 9-1-19; Code 1993, § 6-19)
Sec. 8-20. - Owner and manager both punishable for violations.
In the event that a business is being conducted without a license, both the person owning the business and the person in charge of the management of the business in the city may be held liable for the violation of the provisions of this chapter, and upon conviction, either or both may be punished as provided for violation of the terms of this chapter.
(Code 1979, § 9-1-20; Code 1993, § 6-20)
Sec. 8-21. - Subsequent amendments; other fees.
This chapter shall be subject to amendment or repeal, in whole or in part, at any time, and no amendment or repeal shall be construed to deny the right of the city to assess, levy and collect any of the license fees prescribed. The payment of any license fee herein provided for shall not be construed as prohibiting the assessment, levy or collection of additional license or permit fees upon the same person.
(Code 1979, § 9-1-21; Code 1993, § 6-21)
Sec. 8-22. - Fee for palm readers, faith healers.
There shall be imposed a license fee as set forth in the schedule of fees and charges for every person engaged in the business of palm reading and/or faith healing.
(Code 1993, § 6-22; Ord. of 8-26-1977)
Sec. 8-23. - Vending machines; license fee.
All persons engaged in any business, occupation or vocation in the city shall pay annually a license fee as follows: A fee as set forth in the schedule of fees and charges per machine for the privilege of operating vending machines for cigarettes, bottled soda, potato chips, drinks, crackers, candy, popcorn or other items; provided that the privilege of operating vending machines may be included in any business license the fee for which is set forth in the schedule of fees and charges paid by any business where the machines are owned by the business and are located on the property upon which the business is operated.
(Code 1979, § 9-6-6; Code 1993, § 6-23)
Sec. 8-24. - Enforcement of provisions.
It is hereby made the duty of the code enforcement officer and the police department to see that the provisions of this chapter relating to the occupation taxes are observed; and to notify all violators of the requirements to pay the occupation tax in full and of the penalties that will be assessed. It is hereby made the further duty of the code enforcement officer and the police department to inspect all registrations issued by the city, as often as in their judgment it may seem necessary to determine whether the registration held is the proper one for the business sought to be transacted thereunder.
(Ord. of 12-20-1994; Ord. No. 08-11-ADM, § 6-27, 12-2-2008)
Sec. 8-25. - Evidence of qualification required if applicable.
Any business required to obtain health permits, bonds, certificates of qualification, certificates of competency, or any other regulatory matter shall first, before the issuance of a city business registration, show evidence that such requirements have been met.
(Ord. of 12-20-1994; Ord. No. 12-01-CCO, 2-7-2012)
Secs. 8-26—8-53. - Reserved.
