Chapter 22 - STREETS AND SIDEWALKS[1]
Footnotes:
--- (1) ---
State Law reference— City has power to construct and maintain roads, including curbs, sidewalks, street lights and devices to control the flow of traffic, Ga. Const. art. IX, § II, ¶ III(a)(4); municipal street systems, O.C.G.A. § 32-4-90 et seq.; powers with respect to municipal street system, O.C.G.A. § 32-4-92; regulation of maintenance and use of public roads generally, O.C.G.A. § 32-6-1 et seq.; municipal authority to regulate alleys, O.C.G.A. § 36-34-3.

ARTICLE I. - IN GENERAL

Sec. 22-1. - Parades and demonstrations; permit required.
It shall be unlawful for any person, group of persons or organization to parade, congregate or demonstrate on public streets or property within the city without securing a proper permit from the city clerk. The permit shall bear the signature of the mayor.
(Code 1979, § 9-6-2; Code 1993, § 18-1)
Secs. 22-2—22-20. - Reserved.
ARTICLE II. - SKATEBOARDS, ROLLER SKATES, COASTERS, IN-LINE SKATES, MOTORIZED FOOT SCOOTERS, BICYCLES AND SIMILAR DEVICES

Sec. 22-21. - Definitions.
The following words, terms and phrases, when used in this article, shall have the meanings ascribed to them in this section, except where the context clearly indicates a different meaning:
Bicycles means a vehicle consisting of a light frame mounted on two wheels one behind the other and having a seat, handlebars for steering, brakes, and two pedals or a small motor by which it is driven.
Coasters has its ordinary meaning and means a footboard mounted upon two or more wheels and controlled by an upright steering handle. This device is propelled by the user in usually an upright position.
In-line skates has its ordinary meaning and means a pair of shoes or boots, mounted upon three or more sets of wheels located one behind the other under the attached shoe or boot, and is most often propelled by the user in an upright, standing position.
Motorized foot scooter means a device with no more than two ten-inch or smaller diameter wheels that has handlebars, is designed to be stood or sat upon by the operator, and is powered by an internal combustion engine or electric motor that is capable of propelling the device with or without human propulsion.
Public right-of-way means any street, avenue, boulevard, highway, sidewalk, lane or similar place which is owned by a governmental entity.
Roller skates has its ordinary meaning and means a pair of shoes, mounted upon two sets of wheels, and is most often propelled by the user in an upright, standing position or kneeling.
Skateboard means a footboard mounted upon four or more wheels and is usually propelled by the user who sometimes stands, sits, kneels or lays upon the device while it is in motion.
To operate in a negligent manner means the operation of one or more of the devices described in this section in such a manner as to endanger or be likely to endanger any person or property. Examples of operating in a negligent manner include, but are not limited to, failure to obey all traffic control devices and failure to yield right-of-way to pedestrians and/or vehicular traffic.
(Ord. No. 09-04-CCO, § 18.6, 4-7-2009)
Sec. 22-22. - Duty to obey traffic control devices and rules of the road.
Any person operating a skateboard, roller skates, coaster, in-line skates, motorized foot scooter, bicycles or similar device shall obey all rules of the road applicable to vehicle or pedestrian traffic, as well as the instructions of official traffic control signals, signs and other control devices applicable to vehicles, unless otherwise directed by a police officer.
(Ord. No. 09-04-CCO, § 18.7, 4-7-2009)
Sec. 22-23. - Unsafe use prohibited.
No skateboard, roller skates, coaster, in-line skates, motorized foot scooter, bicycles or similar device shall be ridden in a negligent or unsafe manner but shall be operated with reasonable regard for the safety of the operator and other persons.
(Ord. No. 09-04-CCO, § 18.8, 4-7-2009)
Sec. 22-24. - Prohibited areas.
(a)
Central business district. It is unlawful for any person to operate or ride upon any skateboard, roller skates, coaster, in-line skates, motorized foot scooter or similar device upon any street, alley, sidewalk, park or publicly owned parking lot in the central business district as delineated in the map attached to the ordinance from which this article is derived and incorporated herein by reference. Bicycles are prohibited on sidewalks within the district.
(b)
Sidewalks, trails, and streets with a maximum speed limit above 25 miles per hour prohibited to motorized foot scooters. Motorized foot scooters are prohibited from city parks and other marked "non-motorized corridors," except for use of wheelchair conveyances. Motorized foot scooters are also prohibited from being operated on sidewalks within the city limits, city-owned trails, or on any city street with a posted maximum speed limit greater than 25 miles per hour.
(c)
Exceptions. This section shall not apply to any disabled person using a wheelchair conveyance, strollers used to transport small children, or city equipment.
(Ord. No. 09-04-CCO, § 18.9, 4-7-2009)
Sec. 22-25. - Requirements for operating motorized foot scooters.
(a)
Minimum age. No motorized foot scooter shall be operated on streets or other public areas not otherwise prohibited by this article to motorized foot scooters unless the operator is at least 16 years of age. No operator's license is required from the department of licensing to operate a motorized foot scooter.
(b)
Helmet and reflectors. The following equipment shall be required whenever a motorized foot scooter is operated on streets or other public property within the city:
(1)
Helmet required. Any person operating a motorized foot scooter or riding as a passenger on or in tow of a motorized foot scooter upon any public area shall wear an approved helmet designed for safety that meets or exceeds the standards, and shall have either the neck or chin strap of the helmet fastened securely while the motorized foot scooter is in motion. No person shall transport another person on or in tow of a motorized foot scooter upon any public area, unless the passenger is wearing a helmet that meets the requirements of this article.
(2)
Reflectors required. A motorized foot scooter must be affixed with visible reflectors whenever the vehicle is operated at any time between one-half hour after sunset until one-half hour before dawn.
(c)
Hours of operation. Motorized foot scooters shall not be operated in the city between the hours of 9:00 p.m. and 8:00 a.m.
(Ord. No. 09-04-CCO, § 18.10, 4-7-2009)
Sec. 22-26. - Parental responsibility.
A parent or guardian who has custody of any child or ward under the age of 18 years shall not authorize or knowingly permit any such child or ward to violate any of the provisions of this article. Any parent or guardian receiving a warning of a possible violation of this section shall be deemed to have authorized or knowingly permitted a child or ward to violate this article if a subsequent violation occurs within one year of receiving a warning.
(Ord. No. 09-04-CCO, § 18.12, 4-7-2009)
Sec. 22-27. - Penalty for violation.
Any person violating any provision of this article shall be guilty of a traffic infraction and shall be punished by the imposition of a monetary penalty of not more than $250.00, exclusive of statutory assessments; provided that conduct that constitutes a criminal traffic offense may be charged as such and is subject to the maximum penalties allowed for such offenses. Community service hours may be imposed in lieu of a monetary penalty.
(Ord. No. 09-04-CCO, § 18.13, 4-7-2009)
Secs. 22-28—22-49. - Reserved.
ARTICLE III. - RIGHT-OF-WAY REGULATIONS

Sec. 22-50. - Definitions.
The following words, terms and phrases, when used in this article, shall have the meanings ascribed to them in this section, except where the context clearly indicates a different meaning:
Damage means any and all injury to the road that is a part of the city public road system and drainage areas. An act of injury shall include, but is not limited to, the following:
(1)
Diversion of or the filling in of any drainage ditch, culvert or pipe parallel to or underneath a public road, so as to restrain or redirect the flow of water.
(2)
The operation of any vehicle, machinery, or equipment, which will gouge, rip, break, depress or otherwise deface a public right-of-way.
(3)
The continued ingress or egress, to and from a public right-of-way at a particular location which results in a buildup of rock, gravel, mud, dirt, chemicals, dead leaves and branches, or other materials, which present a potential hazard to other persons using the right-of-way.
(4)
The creation or erection of any dam, berm, ditch or wall which restrains the natural flow of waters and results in the redirecting or waters onto the road surface, right-of-way, or other properties.
(5)
Installation of any basketball goal, soccer goal, skateboard ramp or other sporting or playing equipment.
Enforcement officer means the city building inspector, code enforcement officer, police officer, or their deputies or any other designated person.
Public road means any and all roads which are a part of the city's public road system, as delineated in accordance with the roads mapping system of the city as amended.
Repair means reconstruction of a public right-of-way to its condition prior to the occurrence of caused damage.
(Ord. of 5-1-2001)
Sec. 22-51. - Violation.
It shall be unlawful for any person to damage any public right-of-way in the city. Each day of a continuing violation may be treated as a separate offense.
(Ord. of 5-1-2001)
Sec. 22-52. - Enforcement and penalties.
(a)
Any person, firm, corporation, or other legal entity violating any of the provisions of this article shall be guilty of a misdemeanor, and, upon conviction, shall be punished for each offense according to the codes and ordinances of the city. Each day such violation continues shall constitute a separate offense.
(b)
The city or any owner of real estate who would be damaged by such a violation, in addition to other remedies, may institute an injunction, mandamus, or other appropriate action in proceeding to stop the violation.
(Ord. of 5-1-2001)
Sec. 22-53. - Conflict.
This article supersedes all ordinances and parts of ordinances in conflict with this article. It is the intention of this article that it be read in conformity with any and all state laws regulating damage to government property.
(Ord. of 11-13-1993, § V; Ord. of 5-1-2001)
Secs. 22-54—22-70. - Reserved.
ARTICLE IV. - UTILITY ACCOMMODATION POLICY
DIVISION 1. - GENERALLY

Sec. 22-71. - Intent and purpose.
The City of Villa Rica (the "city") is vitally concerned with the use, construction within, and occupancy of all rights-of-way in the city as such rights-of-way are a valuable and limited resource which must be utilized to promote the public health, safety, welfare, economic development of the city and to protect public work infrastructure. Therefore, the city, under the authority of the laws and Constitution of the State of Georgia, including but not limited to Article 9, Section 1, paragraphs 2 and 3 of the Georgia Constitution, O.C.G.A. 36-1-20 and O.C.G.A. 32-4-42(6), has adopted this article for the purpose of regulating public and private entities which use the city rights-of-way.
(Ord. No. 02-16-CCO, § 1(1.1), 2-2-2016)
Sec. 22-72. - Scope.
The provisions of this article shall apply to all utilities and facilities occupying the rights-of-way as provided herein.
(Ord. No. 02-16-CCO, § 1(1.2), 2-2-2016)
Sec. 22-73. - Definitions.
For the purposes of this article, the following terms, phrases, words, and their derivations have the meanings set forth herein. The words "shall" and "will" are mandatory and "may" is permissive. Words not defined shall be given their common and ordinary meaning. References hereafter to "sections" are, unless otherwise specified, references to sections in this article. Defined terms remain defined terms whether or not capitalized.
City means the City of Villa Rica, Georgia;
Codified ordinances means the codified ordinances of the City of Villa Rica, Georgia;
Construct means, but shall not be limited to, dig, bore, tunnel, trench, excavate, obstruct, install or remove signs, or facilities, other than landscaping or ornamental plantings, in, on, above, within, over, below, under, or through any part of the rights-of-way. Construct shall also include the act of opening and/or cutting into the surface of any paved or improved surface that is any part of the right-of-way;
Construction means, but shall not be limited to, the act or process of digging, boring, tunneling, trenching, excavating, obstructing, installing or removing signs or facilities, other than landscaping or ornamental plantings, in, on, above, within, over, below, under, or through any part of the rights-of-way. Construction shall also include the act of opening, boring and/or cutting into the surface of any part of the right-of-way;
Director means the City Manager of the City of Villa Rica, Georgia, or his or her designee;
Emergency means a condition that poses a clear and immediate danger to life, health, or safety of a person, or of significant damage or loss of real or personal property;
Facility or facilities means any tangible thing, including but not limited to pipes, mains, conduits, cables, wires, poles, towers, traffic and other signals, and other equipment, appurtenances, appliances and future technology of any utility in, on, along, over, or under any part of the rights-of-way within the city;
Facilities representative(s) means the specifically identified agent(s)/employee(s) of a utility who are authorized to direct field activities of that utility and serve as official notice agent(s) for facilities related information. Utility shall be required to make sure at least one of its facilities representatives is available at all times to receive notice of, and immediately direct response to, facilities related emergencies or situations;
FCC means the Federal Communications Commission or any successor thereto;
Permit means an authorization which grants permission to conduct specific regulated activities on, in, over, under or within any public right-of-way, and which may be subject to conditions specified in a written agreement with the city or in a related provision of this Code of Ordinances;
Right(s)-of-way means the surface and space in, on, above, within, over, below, under or through any real property in which the city has an interest in law or equity, whether held in fee, or other estate or interest, or as a trustee for the public, including, but not limited to any public street, boulevard, road, highway, freeway, lane, alley, court, sidewalk, parkway, or any other place, area, or real property owned by or under the legal or equitable control of the city, now or hereafter, that consistent with the purposes for which it was dedicated, may be used for the purposes of constructing, operating, repairing or replacing facilities;
Service(s) means the offering of any service by a utility for a fee directly to the public, or to such classes of users as to be effectively available directly to the public, or alternatively, the provision of any service by a utility between two or more points for a proprietary purpose to a class of users other than the general public;
Service agreement means a valid license agreement, service agreement, franchise agreement, or operating agreement issued by the city or state pursuant to law and accepted by a utility or entered into by and between the city and a utility, which allows such utility to operate or provide service within the geographic limits of the city;
Street or streets means the surface of, as well as the spaces above and below, any and all the streets, alleys, avenues, roads, bridges, tunnels and public places of the city within the corporate limits of the city, as the same now exist or may be hereafter extended or altered, and any location thereon, thereover or thereunder, and any portion thereof;
Transfer means the disposal by the utility, directly or indirectly, by gift, assignment, sale, merger, consolidation, or otherwise, of more than 50 percent at one time of the ownership or controlling interest in the facilities, or of more than 50 percent cumulatively over the term of a written approval of registration of such interests to a corporation, partnership, limited partnership, trust, or association, or person or group of persons acting in concert;
Unused facilities means facilities located in the rights-of-way which have remained unused for 12 months and for which the utility is unable to provide the city with a plan detailing the procedure by which the utility intends to begin actively using such facilities within the next 12 months, or that it has a potential purchaser or user of the facilities who will be actively using the facilities within the next 12 months, or, that the availability of such facilities is required by the utility to adequately and efficiently operate its facilities;
Utility or utilities means all privately, publicly, or cooperatively owned systems for producing, transmitting, or distributing communication, data, information, telecommunication, cable television, video services, power, electricity, light, heat, gas, oil, crude products, water/sewer, steam, fire and police signals, traffic control devices, and street lighting systems, and housing or conduit for any of the foregoing, which directly or indirectly serve the public or any part thereof. The term "utility" may also be used to refer to the owner, operator, utility, service, contractor or subcontractor, or any agent thereof, of any above-described utility or utility facility.
(Ord. No. 02-16-CCO, § 1(1.3), 2-2-2016)
Sec. 22-74. - Penalties.
Every utility convicted of a violation of any provision of this article shall be punished by a fine not exceeding $1,000.00 per violation. Each act of violation and each day upon which any such violation shall occur shall constitute a separate offense. In addition to the penalty prescribed above, the city may pursue other remedies such as abatement of nuisances, injunctive relief and revocation of licenses or permits.
(Ord. No. 02-16-CCO, § 1(art. 8), 2-2-2016)
Secs. 22-75—22-80. - Reserved.
DIVISION 2. - UTILITY REGISTRATION

Sec. 22-81. - Registration required.
Each utility who occupies, uses or has facilities in the rights-of-way at the time of passage of this article, including by lease, sublease or assignment, to operate facilities located in the rights-of-way, unless specifically exempted by state or federal law or this Code, shall file a registration statement with the department within 90 days of the effective date of this article.
(Ord. No. 02-16-CCO, § 1(2.1), 2-2-2016)
Sec. 22-82. - Registration procedure.
The registration information provided to the city shall be on a form approved by the city and include, but not be limited to:
(1)
The name, legal status (i.e., partnership, corporation, etc.), street address, email address, and telephone and facsimile numbers of the utility filing the registration statement (the "registrant"). If the registrant is not the owner of the facility in the right-of-way, the registration shall include the name, street address, email address if applicable, and telephone and facsimile numbers of the owner;
(2)
The name, street address, email address if applicable and telephone and facsimile numbers of one or more facilities representative(s). Current information regarding how to contact the facilities representative(s) in an emergency shall be provided at the time of filing a registration and shall be updated as necessary to assure accurate contact information is available to the city at all times;
(3)
A copy, if requested, of the utility's certificate of authority (or other acceptable evidence of authority to operate) from the Georgia Public Service Commission and/or the FCC and any other similar approvals, permits, or agreements;
(4)
A copy, if requested, of the service agreement, if applicable or other legal instrument that authorizes the utility to use or occupy the right-of-way for the purpose described in the registration.
(Ord. No. 02-16-CCO, § 1(2.2), 2-2-2016)
Sec. 22-83. - Incomplete registration.
If a registration is incomplete, the director shall notify the registrant and shall provide a reasonable period of time in which to complete the registration. If a registration is complete, the director shall so notify the utility in writing.
(Ord. No. 02-16-CCO, § 1(2.3), 2-2-2016)
Sec. 22-84. - Acceptance of the registration shall not convey title in the rights-of-way.
Acceptance of the registration is only the nonexclusive, limited right to occupy rights-of-way in the city for the limited purposes stated in the acceptance. Acceptance of the registration does not excuse a utility from obtaining permits required by city ordinances nor from obtaining appropriate access or pole attachment agreements before using the facilities of others, including the city. Acceptance of the registration does not excuse a utility from notifying the city of construction as required herein.
(Ord. No. 02-16-CCO, § 1(2.4), 2-2-2016)
Sec. 22-85. - Facilities in place without registration.
Beginning one year after the effective date of this article, any facilities or part of a facility found in a right-of-way for which registration is required but has not been obtained unless specifically exempted by law, and for which no valid service agreement exists with the city, may be deemed to be a nuisance and an unauthorized use of the rights-of-way. The city may exercise any remedies or rights it has at law or in equity, including, but not limited to abating the nuisance; taking possession of the facilities, evicting the utility from the right-of-way; prosecuting the violator; and/or any other remedy provided by city ordinance or otherwise allowed in law or in equity.
(Ord. No. 02-16-CCO, § 1(2.5), 2-2-2016)
Secs. 22-86—22-90. - Reserved.
DIVISION 3. - CONSTRUCTION PERMITS

Sec. 22-91. - Permit required.
It shall be unlawful for any utility to excavate or to construct, install, maintain, renew, remove or relocate facilities in, on, along, over or under the public roads of the city without a utility permit from the office of community development in accordance with the terms of this article.
(Ord. No. 02-16-CCO, § 1(3.1), 2-2-2016)
Sec. 22-92. - Permit procedure.
Utility permits shall be obtained from the director (or such other person as the city manager may designate) upon application made on forms prescribed by the office of community development. The written application shall include the following:
(1)
The name and address of the utility;
(2)
The nature, extent, and location of any work proposed to be done, along with satisfactory plans as attachments showing in detail the location of the proposed facility or operations as described in the permit application. The plans shall show the size or capacity of facilities to be installed; their relationship to street features such as right-of-way lines, pavement edge, structures, etc., horizontal and vertical clearance to critical elements of the roadway and any other information necessary to evaluate the impact on the street and its operation;
(3)
The name and address of the person or firm who is to do such work;
(4)
The name, street address, email address if applicable and telephone and facsimile numbers of one or more facilities representative(s);
(5)
The projected dates for the work to be started and finished;
(6)
An indemnity bond or other acceptable security in an amount to be set by the city to pay any damages to any part of the city road system or other city property or to any city employee or member of the public caused by activity or work of the utility performed under authority of the permit issued;
(7)
A copy, if requested, of the registrant's certificate of authority (or other acceptable evidence of authority to operate) from the Georgia Public Service Commission and/or the FCC and any other similar approvals, permits, or agreements; and
(8)
A copy, if requested, of the service agreement, if applicable or other legal instrument that authorizes the utility to use or occupy the right-of-way for the purpose described in the application.
(Ord. No. 02-16-CCO, § 1(3.2), 2-2-2016)
Sec. 22-93. - Permit fees.
Fees shall be determined by the director, subject to the approval by resolution of the city council. A fee schedule shall be available at the offices of the director and the city clerk and open for public inspection.
(Ord. No. 02-16-CCO, § 1(3.3), 2-2-2016)
Sec. 22-94. - Issuance of permit.
If the director determines the applicant has satisfied the following requirements, the director may issue a permit.
(1)
Whether issuing of the approval will be consistent with this article; and
(2)
Whether applicant has submitted a complete application and has secured all certificates and other authorizations required by law, if applicable, in order to construct facilities in the manner proposed by the applicant; and
(3)
The impact on safety, visual quality of the streets, traffic flow, and other users of the right-of-way and the difficulty and length of time of the project, construction or maintenance.
(Ord. No. 02-16-CCO, § 1(3.4), 2-2-2016)
Sec. 22-95. - Emergency situations.
(a)
Each utility shall, as soon as reasonably practicable, notify the director of any event regarding its facilities which it considers to be an emergency. The utility may proceed to take whatever actions are necessary in order to respond to the emergency. A utility who engages in an emergency excavation shall take all reasonable precautions to avoid or minimize damage to any existing facilities.
(b)
In the event that the city becomes aware of an emergency regarding utility facilities, the city may attempt to contact the affected utility or facilities representative. The city may take whatever action it deems necessary in order to respond to the emergency, including cut or move any of the wires, cables, amplifiers, appliances, or other parts of the facilities. The city shall not incur any liability to the utility, for such emergency actions, and the cost of such shall be paid by each utility affected by the emergency.
(Ord. No. 02-16-CCO, § 1(3.5), 2-2-2016)
Sec. 22-96. - Effective period of permit.
(a)
Each permit shall have a set commencement and expiration date based on information provided in the applicant's permit application.
(b)
The permit shall remain in place until construction is completed or until its expiration date unless the utility is in default. The director may give written notice of default to a utility if it is determined that a utility has:
(1)
Violated any provision or requirement of the issuance or acceptance of a permit application or any law of the city, state, or federal government;
(2)
Attempted to evade any provision or requirement of this article;
(3)
Practiced any fraud or deceit upon the city; or
(4)
Made a material misrepresentation or omission of fact in its permit application.
(Ord. No. 02-16-CCO, § 1(3.6), 2-2-2016)
Sec. 22-97. - Cancellation for cause.
If a utility fails to cure a default within 20 working days after such notice is provided to the utility by the city, then such default shall be a material breach and city may exercise any remedies or rights it has at law or in equity to terminate the permit. If the director decides there is cause or reason to terminate, the following procedure shall be followed:
(1)
City shall serve a utility with a written notice of the reason or cause for proposed termination and shall allow a utility a minimum of 15 calendar days to cure its breach.
(2)
If the utility fails to cure within 15 calendar days, the city may declare the permit terminated.
(Ord. No. 02-16-CCO, § 1(3.7), 2-2-2016)
Sec. 22-98. - Expiration of permit.
If work is not begun within six months of the date of issuance, the permit will automatically expire.
(Ord. No. 02-16-CCO, § 1(3.8), 2-2-2016)
Secs. 22-99, 22-100. - Reserved.
DIVISION 4. - REQUIRED MINIMUM STANDARDS

Sec. 22-101. - Utility accommodation manual adopted.
The 2009 Utility Accommodation Policy and Standards Manual, including all references contained therein to codes, rules, regulations, schedules, forms and appendix items, except Appendix B (permit forms and supporting documents), promulgated by the State of Georgia Department of Transportation, as may be amended from time to time is hereby adopted by reference and incorporated in the article as if fully set forth herein, subject to the amendments and modification contained in this article. A copy of the manual shall be maintained at the offices of the director or his designee and open for public inspection. Any conflicts between the provisions of this article and the manual shall be resolved in favor of the manual. References to state personnel, agencies and fees shall be interpreted, where required, as meaning the City of Villa Rica municipal equivalents.
(Ord. No. 02-16-CCO, § 1(4.1), 2-2-2016)
Sec. 22-102. - Protection of traffic and roadway.
Unless specifically in the permit, no utility may occupy the city rights-of-way unless sufficient space is available so that the free flow and safety of traffic and other capacity considerations are not unduly impaired and the installation does not prevent the department from reasonably maintaining the streets, structures, traffic control devices and other appurtenant facilities, and further provided that maintenance and operations of the facilities do not jeopardize the traffic, street structure, other users of the right-of-way or the right-of-way itself.
(Ord. No. 02-16-CCO, § 1(4.2), 2-2-2016)
Sec. 22-103. - Grading.
If the grades or lines of any street within the city right-of-way are changed at any time by the city during the term of the permit and this change involves an area in which the utility's facilities are located, then the utility shall, at its own cost and expense and upon the request of the city upon reasonable notice, protect or promptly alter or relocate the facilities, or any part thereof, so as to conform with such new grades or lines. In the event the utility refuses or neglects to so protect, alter, or relocate all or part of the facilities, the city shall have the right to break through, remove, alter, or relocate all or any part of the facilities without any liability to the utility and the utility shall pay to the city the costs incurred in connection with such breaking through, removal, alteration, or relocation.
(Ord. No. 02-16-CCO, § 1(4.3), 2-2-2016)
Sec. 22-104. - Installation of poles and other wireholding structures and relocation.
Unless otherwise provided in a valid service agreement, no placement of any pole or wireholding structure of the utility is to be considered a vested interest in the right-of-way, and such poles or structures are to be removed, relocated underground, or modified by the utility at its own expense whenever the city determines that the public convenience would be enhanced thereby. The facilities shall be so located and installed as to cause minimum interference with the rights and convenience of property owners.
(Ord. No. 02-16-CCO, § 1(4.4), 2-2-2016)
Sec. 22-105. - Notice; submittal of locate request required.
As provided in O.C.G.A § 25-9-6 (the Georgia Utility Facility Protection Act) and other applicable state law currently in place or as amended, no utility shall commence, perform, or engage in blasting or in excavating with mechanized excavating facilities unless and until the utility planning the blasting or excavating has given 48 hours' notice by submitting a locate request to the utility protection center, beginning the next working day after such notice is provided, excluding hours during days other than working days.
(Ord. No. 02-16-CCO, § 1(4.5), 2-2-2016)
Secs. 22-106—22-110. - Reserved.
DIVISION 5. - RESTORATION OF PROPERTY; INSPECTION; OTHER PERMITS

Sec. 22-111. - Restoration of property.
(a)
Each utility shall be responsible for the cost of repairing any facilities in the rights-of-way and adjoining property or other facilities which it or its facilities damage.
(b)
A utility shall be liable, at its own cost and expense, to replace, restore or repair, any street, facilities or property or structure thereon, thereunder, thereover or adjacent thereto that may become disturbed or damaged as a result of the construction or installation, operation, upgrade, repair or removal of facilities to a condition as good as or better than its condition before the work performed by the utility that caused such disturbance or damage. If the utility does not commence such replacement or repair after 20 working days following written notice from the city, the city or the owner of the affected structure or property may make such replacement or repair and the utility shall pay the reasonable and actual cost of the same.
(Ord. No. 02-16-CCO, § 1(art. 5), 2-2-2016)
Sec. 22-112. - Inspection.
(a)
The utility shall make the construction site available to the director and to all others as authorized by law for inspection at all reasonable times during the execution and upon completion of the construction.
(b)
At any time, including the time of inspection, the director may order the immediate cessation of any work which poses a serious threat to the health, safety, or welfare of the public, violates any law, or which violates the terms and conditions of the permit and/or this article or issue an order to correct work which does not conform to the permit and/or applicable standards, conditions or codes.
(c)
When the construction under any permit is completed, the utility shall notify the department.
(Ord. No. 02-16-CCO, § 1(art. 6), 2-2-2016)
Sec. 22-113. - Additional permits required.
The utility shall obtain all construction, building or other permits or approvals as according to city ordinance, state or federal law. In addition, a permittee shall comply with all requirements of laws, shall complete work in a way as to not cause any unnecessary or unauthorized obstructions of sidewalks, streets, waterways or railways, and is responsible for all work done in the rights-of-way regardless of who performs the work. No rights-of-way obstruction or excavation may be performed when seasonally prohibited or when conditions are unreasonable for such work, except in the case of an emergency as outlined in section 22-95.
(Ord. No. 02-16-CCO, § 1(art. 7), 2-2-2016)
Secs. 22-114—22-120. - Reserved.
ARTICLE V. - TRAFFIC CALMING PROGRAM

Sec. 22-121. - Purpose.
In response to numerous complaints about speeding problems in neighborhoods, the City of Villa Rica Community Development Department has studied other similar communities along with other research on this topic. This research found that the Institute of Transportation Engineers (ITE) completed a report for the Federal Highway Administration (FHWA) titled, Traffic Calming: State of the Practice. This report contains several types of traffic calming devices and defines traffic calming as follows: "Traffic calming is the combination of mainly physical measures that reduce the negative effects of motor vehicle use, alter driver behavior and improve conditions for non-motorized street users". The information in this report is critical to this policy and shall be used as a guide for any traffic calming device placed within Villa Rica. The above mentioned report is available for review at the community development office or you may order a copy from the ITE bookstore online at www.ite.org. The following policy has been established for the citizens of Villa Rica who wish to pursue the installation of traffic calming devices in their neighborhoods.
The objective of the City of Villa Rica Traffic Calming Program is to provide property owners a process to have installed traffic calming devices on city-maintained neighborhood roads, where engineering studies indicate that their use would meet the desired results of reducing neighborhood speeds and their installation is favored by 75 percent of the homeowners in the subdivision.
(Ord. No. 13-16-CCO, § 1, 7-5-2016)
Sec. 22-122. - Installation considerations.
The community development department will only consider installation of traffic calming devices on streets classified as local, residential streets with a posted speed limit of 25 mph or less. Data obtained from traffic engineering studies of physical and traffic-related factors should be used in determining where traffic calming devices are appropriate. Traffic engineering studies may indicate that traffic calming devices would be unnecessary or unsafe at certain locations.
(Ord. No. 13-16-CCO, § 2, 7-5-2016)
Sec. 22-123. - Legal authority.
Only the Villa Rica City Council can authorize the placement of a traffic calming device and shall also have the authority to remove any traffic calming device as may be deemed appropriate.
(Ord. No. 13-16-CCO, § 3, 7-5-2016)
Sec. 22-124. - Standardization of application.
In keeping with the general recommendation of the Manual on Uniform Traffic Control Devices (MUTCD), uniformity aids in the recognition and understanding of traffic control devices. Therefore, strict adherence to the standards and guidelines outlined in this manual will help ensure that any given traffic calming device installation will be equally recognizable and require the same action on the part of the motorists regardless of where it is encountered.
(Ord. No. 13-16-CCO, § 4, 7-5-2016)
Sec. 22-125. - Traffic calming device design.
The city will be responsible for having the new traffic calming device engineered by a registered professional engineer in the State of Georgia and submitted to community development for approval. The ITE report titled Traffic Calming: State of the Practice shall be utilized when considering an appropriate traffic calming device. The design for roadways and other structures shall be in accordance with the American Association of State Highway and Transportation Officials' A Policy on Geometric Design of Highway and Streets (commonly referred to as the AASHTO Green Book).
(Ord. No. 13-16-CCO, § 5, 7-5-2016)
Sec. 22-126. - Expense.
The city will be responsible for the cost of engineering and construction of the traffic calming device.
(Ord. No. 13-16-CCO, § 6, 7-5-2016)
Sec. 22-127. - Procedure.
(a)
Petition for traffic calming device. To have a traffic calming device installed in city, a petition must be submitted to community development. All of the property owners in the subdivision or defined service area shall be contacted and given opportunity to sign this petition, indicating "yes" or "no" concerning the installation of traffic calming devices. In the event of joint ownership of a lot, either owner may sign. Owners must sign individually. This includes owners of undeveloped lots; renting tenants are not an acceptable substitute for the legal homeowner. No signature will be withdrawn from the petition after it is filed with community development. The purpose of the witness' signature is to verify the signatures of the property owners. The percentages will be calculated, based on individual lots where owners' sign affirmatively, divided by the total number of lots in the platted subdivision. Each lot counts as only one vote, regardless of the number of owners signing. If lots require more than one signature and do not have a unanimous vote, the vote will not be counted. At least 60 percent of the lots must vote in favor of the traffic calming device before petitions can be reviewed by community development. Once the petition is signed, notarized and returned to community development, it will be checked against tax records and land lot maps to insure it meets all requirements. For subdivisions not completely built out, a minimum of 60 percent of the total units within the subdivision must be occupied before a petition for the installation of traffic calming devices will be considered, and a minimum of 80 percent of the total units must be occupied before a petition for the removal of the devices will be considered.
(b)
Speed criteria. Community development traffic studies must find a speeding problem does exist. The speed study will provide the 85th percentile speed, which must prove speeds are at least ten mph over the posted speed limit of 25 mph. The 85th percentile speed is an excellent indicator of street character and is used by nearly all states and cities for establishing regulatory speed limits.
(c)
Removal process. Removal of traffic calming devices can proceed if the city is presented a petition requesting that the devices be removed. The petition must be completed following the same criteria defined in subsection (a) above. Such a petition for removal will only be considered after traffic calming devices have been in place for a period of at least one year.
(d)
Design review process. All designs submitted to community development for traffic calming devices must meet all the requirements listed in sections 22-121, 22-124 and 22-125. Community development will review (allow up to 60 days) and possibly require modifications to the design. Once community development approves the design, it will be forwarded to the city council for their consideration.
(Ord. No. 13-16-CCO, § 7, 7-5-2016; Ord. No. 0-32-2021 , 10-14-2021)
Sec. 22-128. - General construction guidelines.
(a)
Materials. All materials furnished and/or installed by the city shall be from sources certified by the Georgia Department of Transportation (GDOT), and shall meet all specifications set forth by GDOT. Hot mix recycled asphaltic concrete may be furnished and placed in lieu of virgin mix; in accordance with section 402 of the GDOT standard specifications. Any recycled material must be approved the community development department, and the finished work must meet the required density and gradation specifications set by GDOT standard specifications.
(b)
Traffic control. The city shall furnish, install, maintain and remove all necessary traffic signs, barricades, lights, signals, cones and other traffic control devices; and all flagging and other means of traffic protection and guidance as required by the standard specifications of GDOT, and the MUTCD.
(c)
Construction methods. All work performed for this project will be in accordance with GDOT Standard Specifications for Construction of Roads and Bridges, Current Edition, and the Supplemental Specifications, Current Edition, and attached modifications and special provisions.
(d)
Signs and pavement markings. The city will supply and install all signs, posts, hardware and pavement markings for each traffic calming device.
(Ord. No. 13-16-CCO, § 8, 7-5-2016)
Secs. 22-129—22-140. - Reserved.
ARTICLE VI. - PARKING

Sec. 22-141. - Truck parking.
(a)
It is unlawful to park a semi-trailer, truck-tractor, or a combination thereof, upon any public street or the shoulder thereof, city-owned parking lot, or other public property.
(b)
It is unlawful to park a semi-trailer, truck-tractor, or a combination thereof, public or private property which is within an area zoned as a residential district except for the purpose of loading or unloading the same.
(c)
It is unlawful to park a semi-trailer, truck-tractor, or a combination thereof, upon any public or private property which is within an area zoned as a commercial district except for the purpose of loading or unloading the same, unless otherwise approved as a designated truck parking area by approval by the city council.
(Ord. No. 15-16-CCO , 7-5-2016)
Secs. 22-142—22-160. - Reserved.
ARTICLE VII. - SMALL WIRELESS FACILITIES AND ANTENNAS

Sec. 22-161. - Purpose and compliance.
(a)
O.C.G.A. § 32-4-42(6) authorizes the city to establish reasonable regulations for the installation, construction, maintenance, renewal, removal, and relocation of pipes, mains, conduits, cables, wires, poles, towers, traffic and other signals, and other equipment, facilities, or appliances in, on, along, over, or under the public roads of the city. Further, 47 U.S.C. § 253(c) provides that the city has authority to manage its public rights-of-way. Finally, the Georgia Streamlining Wireless Facilities and Antennas Act., O.C.G.A. tit. 36, ch. 66C (the "SWFAA"), addresses the placement of small wireless facilities in the public rights-of-way of the city.
(b)
The city finds it is in the best interest of the city and its residents and businesses to establish requirements, specifications reasonable conditions regarding placement of small wireless facilities, poles in the public rights-of-way. These requirements, specifications and conditions are adopted in order to protect the public health, safety and welfare of the residents and businesses of the city and to reasonably manage and protect the public rights-of-way and its uses in the city.
(c)
The objective of this article is to:
(1)
Implement the SWFAA; and
(2)
Ensure use of the public rights-of-way is consistent with the design, appearance and other features of nearby land uses, protects the integrity of historic, cultural and scenic resources and does not harm residents' quality of life.
(Ord. No. 0-34-2022 , 5-10-2022)
Sec. 22-162. - Definitions.
(a)
As used in this article, the following terms have the following meanings:
Antenna means:
(1)
Communications equipment that transmits, receives, or transmits and receives electromagnetic radio frequency signals used in the provision of wireless services or other wireless communications; or
(2)
Communications equipment similar to equipment described in subsection (1) used for the transmission, reception, or transmission and reception of surface waves.
Such term shall not include television broadcast antennas, antennas designed for amateur radio use, or satellite dishes for residential or household purposes.
Applicable codes means uniform building, fire, safety, electrical, plumbing, or mechanical codes adopted by a recognized national code organization to the extent such codes have been adopted by the state or the city or are otherwise applicable in the city.
Applicant means any person that submits an application.
Application means a written request submitted by an applicant to the city for a permit to:
(1)
Collocate a small wireless facility in a right-of-way; or
(2)
Install, modify, or replace a pole or decorative pole in a right-of-way on which a small wireless facility is or will be collocated.
Authority pole means a pole owned, managed, or operated by or on behalf of the city. Such term shall not include poles, support structures, electric transmission structures, or equipment of any type owned by an electric supplier.
Collocate or collocation means to install, mount, modify, or replace a small wireless facility on or adjacent to a pole, decorative pole, or support structure.
Communications facility means the set of equipment and network components, including wires and cables and associated equipment and network components, used by a communications service provider to provide communications services.
Communications service provider means a provider of communications services.
Communications services means cable service as defined in 47 U.S.C. § 522(6); telecommunications service as defined in 47 U.S.C. § 153(53); information service as defined in 47 U.S.C. Section 153(24), as each such term existed on January 1, 2019; or wireless services.
Consolidated application means an application for the collocation of multiple small wireless facilities on existing poles or support structures or for the installation, modification, or replacement of multiple poles and the collocation of associated small wireless facilities.
Decorative pole means an authority pole that is specially designed and placed for aesthetic purposes.
Electric supplier means any electric light and power company subject to regulation by the Georgia Public Service Commission, any electric membership corporation furnishing retail service in this state, and any municipality which furnishes such service within this state.
Eligible facilities request means an eligible facilities request as set forth in 47 C.F.R. § 1.40001(b)(3), as it existed on January 1, 2019.
FCC means the Federal Communications Commission of the United States.
Fee means a one-time, nonrecurring charge based on time and expense.
Historic district means:
(1)
Any district, site, building, structure, or object included in, or eligible for inclusion in, the National Register of Historic Places maintained by the Secretary of the Interior of the United States in accordance with Section Vl.D.1.a.i-v of the Nationwide Programmatic Agreement codified by 47 C.F.R. Part 1;
(2)
Any area designated as a historic district under Article 2 of Chapter 10 of Title 44, the Georgia Historic Preservation Act; or
(3)
Any area designated as a historic district or property by law prior to April 26, 2019.
Law means and includes any and all federal, state, or local laws, statutes, common laws, codes, rules, regulations, orders, or ordinances.
Micro wireless facility means a small wireless facility not larger in dimension than 24 inches in length, 15 inches in width, and 12 inches in height that has an exterior antenna, if any, no longer than 11 inches.
Permit means a written authorization, in electronic or hard copy format, required to be issued by the city to initiate, continue, or complete the collocation of a small wireless facility or the installation, modification, or replacement of a pole or decorative pole upon which a small wireless facility is collocated.
Person means an individual, corporation, limited liability company, partnership, association, trust, or other entity or organization, including an authority.
Pole means a vertical pole such as a utility, lighting, traffic, or similar pole made of wood, concrete, metal, or other material that is lawfully located or to be located within a right-of-way, including without limitation a replacement pole and an authority pole. Such term shall not include a support structure, decorative pole, or electric transmission structure.
Rate means a recurring charge.
Reconditioning work means the activities associated with substantially painting, reconditioning, improving, or repairing authority poles.
Replace, replacement or replacing means to replace a pole or decorative pole with a new pole or a new decorative pole, similar in design, size, and scale to the existing pole or decorative pole consistent with 47 C.F.R. § 1.40001(b)(7) as it existed on January 1, 2019, in order to address limitations of, or change requirements applicable to, the existing pole to structurally support the collocation of a small wireless facility.
Replacement work means the activities associated with replacing an authority pole.
Right-of-way means, generally, property or any interest therein, whether or not in the form of a strip, which is acquired for or devoted to a public road; provided, however, that such term shall apply only to property or an interest therein that is under the ownership or control of the city and shall not include property or any interest therein acquired for or devoted to an interstate highway or the public rights, structures, sidewalks, facilities, and appurtenances of buildings for public equipment and personnel used for or engaged in administration, construction, or maintenance of public roads or research pertaining thereto or scenic easements and easements of light, air, view and access.
Small wireless facility means radio transceivers; surface wave couplers; antennas; coaxial, fiber optic, or other cabling; power supply; backup batteries; and comparable and associated equipment, regardless of technological configuration, at a fixed location or fixed locations that enable communication or surface wave communication between user equipment and a communications network and that meet both of the following qualifications:
(1)
Each wireless provider's antenna could fit within an enclosure of no more than six cubic feet in volume; and
(2)
All other wireless equipment associated with the facility is cumulatively no more than 28 cubic feet in volume, measured based upon the exterior dimensions of height by width by depth of any enclosure that may be used.
The following types of associated ancillary equipment are not included in the calculation of the volume of all other wireless equipment associated with any such facility: electric meters; concealment elements; telecommunications demarcation boxes; grounding equipment; power transfer switches; cut-off switches; and vertical cable runs for connection of power and other services. Such term shall not include a pole, decorative pole, or support structure on, under, or within which the equipment is located or collocated or to which the equipment is attached and shall not include any wireline backhaul facilities or coaxial, fiber optic, or other cabling that is between small wireless facilities, poles, decorative poles, or support structures or that is not otherwise immediately adjacent to or directly associated with a particular antenna.
State means the State of Georgia.
Support structure means a building, billboard, water tank, or any other structure to which a small wireless facility is or may be attached. Such term shall not include a decorative pole, electric transmission structure, or pole.
Wireless infrastructure provider means any person, including a person authorized to provide telecommunications services in this state, that builds, installs, or operates small wireless facilities, poles, decorative poles, or support structures on which small wireless facilities are or are intended to be used for collocation but that is not a wireless services provider.
Wireless provider means a wireless infrastructure provider or a wireless services provider.
Wireless services means any services provided to the public using licensed or unlicensed spectrum, including the use of Wi-Fi, whether at a fixed location or mobile.
Wireless services provider means a person that provides wireless services.
Wireline backhaul facility means an aboveground or underground wireline facility used to transport communications data from a telecommunications demarcation box associated with small wireless facility to a network.
(b)
In the event that any federal or state law containing definitions used in this article is amended, the definition in the referenced section, as amended, shall control.
(Ord. No. 0-34-2022 , 5-10-2022)
Sec. 22-163. - Permits.
(a)
A permit is required to collocate a small wireless facility in the public right-of-way or to install, modify, or replace a pole or a decorative pole in the public right-of-way. A permit is not required to perform the activities described in O.C.G.A. § 36-66C-6(e) or (f).
(b)
Any person seeking to collocate a small wireless facility in the public right-of-way or to install, modify, or replace a pole or a decorative pole in the public right-of-way shall submit an application to the city engineer for a permit. Applications are available from the city engineer. Any material change to information contained in an application shall be submitted in writing to the city engineer within 30 days after the events necessitating the change.
(c)
Any person who intends to submit an application to the city pursuant to this article shall meet with the city engineer at least 30 days prior to submitting an application for a permit. The purpose of such meeting shall be to inform the city, in good faith, when the applicant expects to commence deployment of small wireless facilities and poles within the city, the number of small wireless facilities and poles it expects to deploy during the 24 months after commencement, and the expected timing of such deployments.
(d)
Each application shall be submitted by the applicable wireless provider or its duly authorized representative and shall contain the following:
(1)
The applicant's name, address, telephone number, and email address, including emergency contact information for the applicant;
(2)
The names, addresses, telephone numbers, and email addresses of all consultants, if any, acting on behalf of the applicant with respect to filing the application;
(3)
A general description of the proposed work and the purposes and intent of the proposed facility. The scope and detail of such description shall be appropriate to the nature and character of the physical work to be performed, with special emphasis on those matters likely to be affected or impacted by the physical work proposed;
(4)
Detailed construction drawings regarding the proposed use of the right-of-way;
(5)
To the extent the proposed facility involves collocation on a pole or support structure, a structural report performed by a duly licensed engineer evidencing that the pole or support structure will structurally support the collocation (or that the pole or support structure may and will be modified to meet structural requirements) in accordance with applicable codes;
(6)
For any new aboveground facilities, visual depictions or representations if not included in the construction drawings;
(7)
Information indicating the horizontal and approximate vertical location, relative to the boundaries of the right-of-way, of the small wireless facility for which the application is being submitted;
(8)
If the application is for the installation of a pole, a certification that complies with O.C.G.A. § 36-66C-6(k);
(9)
If the small wireless facility will be collocated on a pole or support structure owned by a third party, a certification that the wireless provider has permission from the owner to collocate on the pole or support structure; and
(10)
If the applicant is not a wireless services provider, a certification that a wireless services provider has requested in writing that the applicant collocate the small wireless facilities or install, modify or replace the pole or decorative pole at the requested location.
(e)
Each application for a permit shall include the maximum application fees permitted under O.C.G.A. § 36-66C-5(a)(1), (a)(2) and (a)(3). Such maximum application fees shall automatically increase on January 1 of each year beginning January 1, 2021, as provided under O.C.G.A. § 36-66C-5(b).
(f)
The city engineer shall review applications for permits according to the timelines and using the procedures identified in O.C.G.A. §§ 36-66C-7 and 36-66C-13.
(g)
Applications for permits shall be approved unless the requested collocation of a small wireless facility or the requested installation, modification, or replacement of a pole or decorative pole:
(1)
Interferes with the operation of traffic control equipment;
(2)
Interferes with sight lines or clear zones for transportation or pedestrians;
(3)
Fails to comply with the Americans with Disabilities Act, 42 U.S.C. § 12101 et seq., or similar laws of general applicability regarding pedestrian access or movement;
(4)
Requests that ground-mounted small wireless facility equipment be located more than seven and one-half feet in radial circumference from the base of the pole, decorative pole or support structure to which the small wireless facility antenna would be attached, provided that the city shall not deny the application if a greater distance from the base of the pole, decorative pole or support structure is necessary to avoid interfering with sight lines or clear zones for transportation or pedestrians or to otherwise to protect public safety;
(5)
Fails to comply with applicable codes;
(6)
Fails to comply with the maximum limitations set forth in section [22-165] of this article or O.C.G.A. § 36-66C-7(h) or (i);
(7)
With respect to an application to install a pole or decorative pole, interferes with the widening, repair, reconstruction, or relocation of a public road or highway by the city or the department of transportation that has been advertised for bid and scheduled for completion within six months after the application is filed;
(8)
With respect to an application to install a pole or decorative pole, interferes with a public works construction project governed by O.C.G.A. tit. 36, ch. 91 which is advertised for bid and scheduled for completion within six months after the application is filed;
(9)
Fails to comply with O.C.G.A. §§ 36-66C-10, 36-66C-11, or 36-66C-12;
(10)
Fails to comply with laws of general applicability addressing pedestrian and vehicular traffic and safety requirements; or
(11)
Fails to comply with laws of general applicability that address the occupancy or management of the right-of-way and that are not otherwise inconsistent with this article.
(h)
For applications for new poles in the public right-of-way in areas zoned for residential use, the city engineer may propose an alternate location in the public right-of-way within 100 feet of the location set forth in the application, and the wireless provider shall use the city engineer proposed alternate location unless the location imposes technical limits or significant additional costs. The wireless provider shall certify that it has made such a determination in good faith, based on the assessment of a licensed engineer, and it shall provide a written summary of the basis for such determination.
(i)
A permit issued under this section shall authorize such person to occupy the public right-of-way to:
(1)
Collocate a small wireless facility on or adjacent to a pole or a support structure that does not exceed the limitations set forth in O.C.G.A. § 36-66C-7(h)(3) or on or adjacent to a decorative pole in compliance with O.C.G.A. § 36-66C-12; and
(2)
Install, modify, or replace a pole or decorative pole for collocation of a small wireless facility that does not exceed the limitations set forth in O.C.G.A. § 36-66C-7(h)(1) and (h)(2).
(j)
Upon the issuance of a permit under this article, and on each anniversary of such issuance, every person issued a permit shall submit to the city the maximum annual payments permitted under O.C.G.A. § 36-66C-S(a)(4) and (a)(5); provided, however, that if such person removes its small wireless facilities form the public rights-of-way pursuant to O.C.G.A. § 36-66C-5(e), then such person shall be responsible for the pro rata portion of the annual payment based on the number of days of occupation since the last annual payment. Upon making such pro rata payment and removal of the small wireless facilities, the person's annual payment obligations under this section shall cease as of the date of the actual removal. The maximum annual payments shall automatically increase on January 1 of each year beginning January 1, 2021, as provided under O.C.G.A. § 36-66C-5(b).
(k)
Any person issued a permit shall pay the fees identified in O.C.G.A. § 36-66C-5(a)(6) and (a)(7), as applicable.
(l)
The city may revoke a permit issued pursuant to this section if the wireless provider or its equipment placed in the public right-of-way under that permit subsequently is not in compliance with any provision of this article or the Georgia Streamlining Wireless Facilities and Antennas Act. Upon revocation, the city may proceed according to subsection (m).
(m)
If a wireless provider occupies the public rights-of-way without obtaining a permit required by this section or without complying with the SWFAA, then the city may, at the sole discretion of the city, restore the right-of-way, to the extent practicable in the reasonable judgment of the city, to its condition prior to the unpermitted collocation or installation and to charge the responsible wireless provider the reasonable, documented cost of the city in doing so, plus a penalty not to exceed $1,000.00. The city may suspend the ability of the wireless provider to receive any new permits from the city under this section until the wireless provider has paid the amount assessed for such restoration costs and the penalty assessed, if any; provided, however, that the city may not suspend such ability of any applicant that has deposited the amount in controversy in escrow pending an adjudication of the merits of the dispute by a court of competent jurisdiction.
(n)
All accepted applications for permits shall be publicly available subject to the limitations identified in O.C.G.A. § 36-66C-6(c).
(o)
An applicant may file a consolidated application related to multiple small wireless facilities, poles or decorative poles so long as such consolidated application meets the requirements of O.C.G.A. § 36-66C-13.
(p)
Activities authorized under a permit shall be completed within the timelines provided in O.C.G.A. § 36-66C-7(k)(2).
(q)
Issuance of a permit authorizes the applicant to:
(1)
Undertake the collocation, installation, modification or replacement approved by the permit; and
(2)
Operate and maintain the small wireless facilities and any associated pole covered by the permit for a period of ten years.
(r)
Permits shall be renewed following the expiration of the term identified in subsection (q) upon the terms and conditions identified in O.C.G.A. § 36-66C-7(k)(2)(B).
(s)
If an application for a permit seeks to collocate small wireless facilities on authority poles in the public rights-of-way, then the city shall, within 60 days of receipt of the completed application:
(1)
Provide a good faith estimate for any make-ready work necessary to enable the authority pole to support the proposed facility; or
(2)
Notify the wireless provider that the wireless provider will be required to perform the make-ready work.
Any make-ready work performed by the city shall be completed pursuant to and in accordance with the provisions of O.C.G.A. § 36-66C-7(n).
(Ord. No. 0-34-2022 , 5-10-2022)
Sec. 22-164. - Removal; relocation; reconditioning; replacement; abandonment.
(a)
A person may remove its small wireless facilities from the public rights-of-way according to the procedures of O.C.G.A. § 36-66C-5(e).
(b)
In the event of a removal under subsection (a), the right-of-way shall be, to the extent practicable in the reasonable judgment of the city, restored to its condition prior to the removal. If a person fails to return the right-of-way, to the extent practicable in the reasonable judgment of the city, to its condition prior to the removal within 90 days of the removal, the city may, at the sole discretion of the city, restore the right-of-way to such condition and charge the person the city's reasonable, documented cost of removal and restoration, plus a penalty not to exceed $500.00. The city may suspend the ability of the person to receive any new permits under section [22-163] until the person has paid the amount assessed for such restoration costs and the penalty assessed, if any; provided, however, that the city will not suspend such ability of any person that has deposited the amount in controversy in escrow pending an adjudication of the merits of the dispute by a court of competent jurisdiction.
(c)
If, in the reasonable exercise of police powers, the city determines:
(1)
A pole or support structure unreasonably interferes with the widening, repair, reconstruction, or relocation of a public road or highway; or
(2)
Relocation of poles, support structures, or small wireless facilities is required as a result of a public project, the wireless provider shall relocate such poles, support structures, or small wireless facilities pursuant to and in accordance with the provisions of O.C.G.A. § 36-66C-7(l).
If the wireless provider fails to relocate a pole, support structure or small wireless facility or fails to provide a written good faith estimate of the time needed to relocate the pole, support structure or small wireless within the time period prescribed in O.C.G.A. § 36-66C-7(l), the city make take the actions authorized by O.C.G.A. § 36-66C-7(o), in addition to any other powers under applicable law.
(d)
The city shall recondition and replace authority poles consistent with the provisions of O.C.G.A. § 36-66C-7(m). Wireless providers shall accommodate and cooperate with reconditioning and replacement consistent with the provisions of O.C.G.A. § 36-66C-7(m).
(e)
A wireless provider must notify the city of its decision to abandon any small wireless facility, support structure or pole pursuant to and in accordance with the provisions of O.C.G.A. § 36-66C-7(p)(1). The wireless provider shall perform all acts and duties identified in O.C.G.A. § 36-66C-7(p) regarding abandonment. The city may take all actions and exercise all powers authorized under O.C.G.A. § 36-66C-7(p) upon abandonment, in addition to any other powers under applicable law.
(Ord. No. 0-34-2022 , 5-10-2022)
Sec. 22-165. - Standards.
(a)
Small wireless facilities and new, modified, or replacement poles to be used for collocation of small wireless facilities may be placed in the public right-of-way as a permitted use: (i) upon a receipt of a permit under section [22-163]; (ii) subject to applicable codes; and (iii) so long as such small wireless facilities and new, modified, or replacement poles to be used for collocation of small wireless facilities comply with the appropriate provisions of O.C.G.A. § 36-66C-7(h).
(1)
New, modified, or replacement poles installed in the right-of-way in a historic district and in an area zoned primarily for residential use shall not exceed 50 feet above ground level.
(2)
Each new, modified, or replacement pole installed in the right-of-way that is not in a historic district or in an area zoned primarily for residential use shall not exceed the greater of:
a.
Fifty feet above ground level; or
b.
Ten feet greater in height above ground level than the tallest existing pole in the same public right-of-way in place as of January 1, 2019, and located within 500 feet of the new proposed pole;
(3)
New small wireless facilities in the public right-of-way and collocated on an existing pole or support structure shall not exceed more than ten feet above the existing pole or support structure.
(4)
New small wireless facilities in the public right-of-way collocated on a new or replacement pole under subsection (a)(l) or subsection (a)(2) may not extend above the top of such poles.
(b)
Unless it is determined that another design is less intrusive, or placement is required under applicable law, small wireless facilities shall be concealed as follows:
(1)
Antennas located at the top of poles and support structures shall be incorporated into the pole or support structure, or placed within shrouds of a size such that the antenna appears to be part of the pole or support structure.
(2)
Antennas placed elsewhere on a pole or support structure shall be integrated into the pole or support structure, or be designed and placed to minimize visual impacts.
(3)
Radio units or equipment cabinets holding radio units and mounted on a pole shall be placed as high as possible, located to avoid interfering with, or creating any hazard to, any other use of the public rights-of-way, and located on one side of the pole. Unless the radio units or equipment cabinets can be concealed by appropriate traffic signage, radio units or equipment cabinets mounted below the communications space on poles shall be designed so that the largest dimension is vertical, and the width is such that the radio units or equipment cabinets are minimally visible from the opposite side of the pole on which they are placed.
(4)
Wiring and cabling shall be neat and concealed within or flush to the pole or support structure, ensuring concealment of these components to the greatest extent possible.
(c)
Notwithstanding any provision of this article to the contrary, an applicant may collocate a small wireless facility within a historic district, and may place or replace a pole within a historic district, only upon satisfaction of the following:
(1)
Issuance of a permit under section [22-163]; and
(2)
Compliance with applicable codes.
(d)
Notwithstanding any provision of this article to the contrary, an applicant may collocate a small wireless facility on a decorative pole, or may replace a decorative pole with a new decorative pole, in the event the existing decorative pole will not structurally support the attachment, only upon satisfaction of the following:
(1)
Issuance of a permit under section [22-163]; and
(2)
Compliance with applicable codes.
(Ord. No. 0-34-2022 , 5-10-2022)
