ARTICLE VI. - FLEA MARKETS[5]

Footnotes:
--- (5) ---
State Law reference— Duties of purchasers of gold bullion, gold dust, etc., O.C.G.A. § 12-4-120 et seq.; dealers in precious metals and gems, O.C.G.A. § 43-37-1 et seq.; dealers in used watches, O.C.G.A. § 43-49-1 et seq.

Sec. 8-176. - Definitions.
The following words, terms and phrases, when used in this article, shall have the meanings ascribed to them in this section, except where the context clearly indicates a different meaning:
Flea market means any business whereby there is operated a center for shopping among collected flea market vendors marketing merchandise to the public from booths, stalls, tables, benches and similar display and marketing configurations and arrangements for the sale of new and used merchandise. Flea markets shall not include antique stores, jewelry stores, coin shops, salvage operations, clothing stores or other businesses of common merchandise with flea markets where the vendor therein is not operating among a collection of similar vendors. All businesses in the city which meet the definition of flea market shall be subject to the provisions and regulations of these businesses as are set forth in this article.
Flea market promoters means all persons, firms or corporations, partnerships or other forms of business entities operating, maintaining and promoting flea markets.
Flea market vendors means all persons, businesses or individuals of every type and character operating among collections of other flea market vendors for retail sales to the public of new and/or used merchandise in collected marketing centers for sales from stalls, booths, tables, benches and other similar displays or marketing configurations and arrangements.
(Code 1993, § 6-151; Ord. of 3-26-1984, § I)
Sec. 8-177. - Applications for licenses.
All flea market promoters and flea market vendors, prior to the commencement of business, shall first file an application for a business license with the coordinator of inspections or his authorized representative, for a license to conduct such business. Such application shall be on forms prescribed by the coordinator of inspections and contain such information as, in the opinion of the coordinator of inspections, is necessary or proper to regulate this business.
(Code 1993, § 6-152; Ord. of 3-26-1984, § II)
Sec. 8-178. - Revocation of license.
The coordinator of inspections may revoke the license of any flea market promoter when the promoter allows a vendor to operate on premises without a proper vendor's license; the promoter operates without a promoter's license; or whenever revocation is necessary to prevent vendors engaging in the purchase, sale, barter or trade of stolen property; or to prevent the purchase, sale, barter or trade of property with minors provided the promoter has previously been warned of such activity and has not taken action necessary to prevent a recurrence. Such action may also be taken when the flea market promoter repeatedly fails to keep and provide accurate records as required in section 8-179.
(Code 1993, § 6-153; Ord. of 3-26-1984, § III)
Sec. 8-179. - Records of transactions required.
(a)
Records shall be made of all transactions whether purchase, sale, trade or barter of any merchandise which transaction or amount is $10.00 or more. The records of such transaction shall be made on a form prescribed by the coordinator of inspections. The form shall be dated and require a description of the property and the amount of the transaction.
(b)
All sales of used or previously owned merchandise shall, in addition to the foregoing, require an accurate description of the property, including identifying marks and manufacturer's identification, numbers of the item sold. Additionally, as to the purchaser of such items, the flea market vendor shall obtain and verify from current valid identification presented by such person his name, current address, sex, race, height, weight, and date of birth. A current, valid driver's license with photograph shall be positive identification. The coordinator of inspections may from time to time prescribe other acceptable identification forms.
(c)
All forms required in subsection (a) of this section shall be held by vendors and furnished to the police department of the city or to the flea market promoter for delivery to the police department.
(d)
No flea market vendor shall engage in any transaction to purchase or trade for any merchandise or property of a minor.
(Code 1993, § 6-154; Ord. of 3-26-1984, § IV)
Sec. 8-180. - Holding period for precious metals.
Any person operating under a flea market promoter's or flea market vendor's license, or any dealer in precious metals or gems who takes, purchases, barters, swaps, or otherwise acquires any gems, numismatic coins, or precious metals as defined in O.C.G.A. § 43-37-1 relating to dealers in precious metals and gems shall comply with all provisions thereof.
(Code 1993, § 6-155; Ord. of 3-26-1984, § V)
Sec. 8-181. - Flea market license tax.
(a)
The business license tax for flea market promoters shall be determined as are business licenses generally for the city.
(b)
The business license tax for flea market vendors operating as a part of flea market promotion consisting of two or more vendors will be as follows:
EXPAND
Weekends $5.00
Quarterly $35.00
Semiannually $50.00
Annually (gross receipts) minimum $70.00
  (Code 1993, § 6-156; Ord. of 3-26-1984, § VI)
Secs. 8-182—8-200. - Reserved.
