ARTICLE III. - PAWNSHOPS AND PAWNBROKERS[3]

Footnotes:
--- (3) ---
State Law reference— Pawnbrokers generally, O.C.G.A. § 44-12-130 et seq.; municipal authorities may license pawnbrokers, define their powers and privileges by ordinance, impose taxes upon them, revoke their licenses, and exercise such general supervision, O.C.G.A. § 44-12-136.

Sec. 8-85. - Definitions.
The following words, terms and phrases when used in this article, shall have the meanings ascribed to them in this section except where the context clearly indicates a different meaning. The definitions set forth in O.C.G.A. § 44-12-130 ("Pawnbrokers - Definitions"), shall be effective as definitions of the words, terms and phrases used in this article. All words, terms and phrases used herein, other than those specifically defined elsewhere in this article, shall have the respective meanings ascribed to them in O.C.G.A. § 44-12-130, and shall have the same scope and effect that the same words, terms and phrases have where used in O.C.G.A. § 44-12-130.
Employee means any person who works in a pawnshop, whether on a part-time or full-time basis, regardless of whether remuneration is received or not.
Pawn or pledge means a bailment of personal property as security for any debt or engagement redeemable upon certain terms and with the implied power of sale or default.
Pawnbroker means any person who works in a pawnshop in the capacity of manager or owner or both.
Pawnshop means any business that takes or receives by way of pledge, pawn or exchange, any goods, wares, merchandise or personal property of any kind as security for the repayment of money lent thereon.
(Ord. No. 09-10-CCO, § 6-61, 12-1-2009)
Sec. 8-86. - Responsibility for enforcement.
The city police department, also referred to herein as public safety, shall see that the provisions of this article are observed and enforced.
(Ord. No. 09-10-CCO, § 6-62, 12-1-2009)
Sec. 8-87. - Employees.
No person shall be an employee of a pawnshop in any capacity until such person has been fingerprinted by the public safety department and has been issued an annual permit authorizing such person to be employed by a pawnshop. It shall be the duty of the pawnbroker to assure that there is compliance with the provisions of this section.
(Ord. No. 09-10-CCO, § 6-63, 12-1-2009)
Sec. 8-88. - Character of person connected with pawn business.
No owner, employee, pawnbroker or any person connected with a pawnshop for which a license or permit is sought shall have been convicted of a crime involving moral turpitude or shall have been convicted of any crime involving felony theft, burglary, robbery, or a violation of the Family Violence Act.
(Ord. No. 09-10-CCO, § 6-64, 12-1-2009)
Sec. 8-89. - Annual permit.
(a)
In addition to compliance with article I of this chapter, and before operating a pawnshop or becoming an employee of a pawnshop, any person must first file an application with the city clerk for a permit to operate or be employed in the pawnshop, pursuant to the following:
(1)
The application shall be made on an annual basis;
(2)
The application shall state the address of the pawnshop;
(3)
The application shall contain the full name, address, and phone number, date of birth and social security number of any employee or pawnbroker; and
(4)
The application shall include the agreement to a "per transaction" fee, not to exceed $0.50 per transaction, set and collected by the provider of electronic record keeping software as approved by city council and further described in section 8-92.
(b)
The chief of police or any other officer of the city designated by the city council shall investigate each applicant for such license and shall report to the city council whether such applicant is a person of good character and has not been convicted of a criminal offense as indicated in this article.
(Ord. No. 09-10-CCO, § 6-65, 12-1-2009)
Sec. 8-90. - Permit required for occupational tax certificate; issuance.
(a)
No occupation tax certificate shall be issued to any person until the permit required by this article shall have been granted by the city council, the clerk shall then issue the certificate as required for the conduct of business upon payment of a tax in the amount as set forth in article I of this chapter.
(b)
Any person permitted under subsection (a) of this section who sells goods in addition to goods pledged in a pawn shall obtain an occupation tax certificate in accordance with the provisions of article I of this chapter.
(Ord. No. 09-10-CCO, § 6-66, 12-1-2009)
Sec. 8-91. - Revocation; suspension.
Any person failing to comply with the provisions of this article, or such other laws and regulations as may be adopted by the city council for the conduct of business of a pawnshop, shall be subject to having the license and permit to conduct the business revoked or suspended for a period of time in the discretion of the city council. Such forfeiture and suspension shall result from conviction in the municipal court for a violation of any provision of this article or any other ordinance or regulation covering the conduct of business for which the permit and license shall have been issued.
(Ord. No. 09-10-CCO, § 6-67, 12-1-2009)
Sec. 8-92. - Records of transactions.
(a)
Every pawnbroker shall maintain a permanent electronic record of its pawn transactions in which an accurate description of all property pledged, traded or sold to the pawnshop can be transmitted to the city police department via an electronic automated reporting system. Each of these transactions shall contain an accurate description of all property pledged, traded or sold to the pawnshop and shall be made at the time of each transaction, provided that the following information is included:
(1)
The date and time of the purchase, pawn or sale of the property.
(2)
The name, address and telephone number of the customer making the pledge, trade or sale.
(3)
A description of the customer in terms of sex, race, date of birth, height and weight, as well as the driver's license number of the customer or some other identification card which contains a photograph of the customer.
(4)
A description of the pledged or purchased property by serial, model or other number, if available, and by any identifying marks (e.g., brand name, color, style, etc.).
(5)
The number of the receipt or pawn transaction issued for the property pawned or bought.
(6)
The price paid or the amount loaned.
(7)
The maturity date of the transaction, if a pawn.
(8)
A photograph of the customer and the item pawned or bought which will be taken with the electronic automated reporting system at the time of the transaction.
(9)
The signature of the customer.
(b)
Every pawnshop shall enter each transaction as it occurs into the electronic automated reporting system or may elect to upload electronically via the internet a batch file of all transactions for each business day to the administrator of the electronic automated reporting system immediately at the conclusion of each business day. The administrator of the electronic automated reporting system will electronically transmit all transactions to the police department.
(c)
In the event that the electronic automated reporting system becomes temporarily or permanently disabled, pawnshops and pawnbrokers will be notified as soon as possible. In this event, the pawnbrokers will be required to make records of transactions in paper form. Such paper forms must include all information as enumerated in subsection (a) of this section. Pawnbrokers shall maintain a three-day supply of these paper forms.
(d)
Any duly authorized law enforcement officer may, during the ordinary hours of business or any other reasonable time, inspect any pawnbroker's electronic records at the pawnbroker's place of business to ensure compliance with this section.
(e)
With the approval of city council, the chief of police or his designee shall select and designate the required automated reporting system. There will be a fee, not to exceed $0.50, assessed to the pawnshop for each reported transaction; said fee shall be set forth in the schedule of fees of the city as provided in section 1-2. This fee will be invoiced to the pawnbroker and collected on behalf of the chief of police or his designee, by a third party administrator of the automated reporting system.
(Ord. No. 09-10-CCO, § 6-68, 12-1-2009)
Sec. 8-93. - Waiting period for disposal of articles.
Any pawnbroker or employee of a pawnshop who makes a loan on pledged goods, or buys pledged goods on the condition that the seller may repurchase said goods, shall hold said goods for at least 30 days before disposing of them by sale, transfer, shipment or otherwise. Non-pledged goods bought under this section shall be held for at least seven calendar days before disposing of them by sale, transfer, shipment or otherwise.
(Ord. No. 09-10-CCO, § 6-69, 12-1-2009)
Sec. 8-94. - Dealing with minors.
It shall be unlawful for any pawnbroker or employee of a pawnshop to receive goods in pawn, trade, purchase or sale from a person under 18 years of age.
(Ord. No. 09-10-CCO, § 6-70, 12-1-2009)
Sec. 8-95. - Lost or stolen items.
(a)
It shall be the duty of every person operating or employed by a pawnbroker's license or permit, to report to the chief of police or his duly authorized agent any article or goods sold or pawned to him if he shall have a reason to believe that the article or goods was stolen or lost when presented by seller or customer.
(b)
With respect to any items which would normally have a serial number or other means of identification, if any pawnbroker or employee of a pawnshop becomes aware that such items have had the identification removed, defaced or destroyed, such fact shall be immediately reported to the chief of police or his duly authorized agent.
(c)
If it is determined that an item bought, sold, traded or pawned by a seller or customer to the pawnbroker or his employee is the subject of any reported theft, then the surrender of said item to the chief of police or his duly authorized agent shall be done upon demand.
(Ord. No. 09-10-CCO, § 6-71, 12-1-2009)
Sec. 8-96. - Violations.
(a)
It shall be unlawful for any pawnbroker or employee of a pawnshop to violate any of the provisions of this article, whether or not such person or employee is the holder of a current valid permit issued according to the terms of this article. Further, any person failing to comply with any provision of this article or other rules, ordinances and regulations as may be passed by the city council for conduct of the business of a pawnbroker, shall upon conviction, have the license to conduct business revoked.
(b)
It shall be unlawful for any pawnbroker or employee of a pawnshop to:
(1)
Make any false statement in an application for any permit provided for in this article.
(2)
Make any false entry in any record book, ledger or form required by the terms of this article.
(3)
Violate any criminal law of the state while acting in the course of business as a pawnbroker or employee of a pawnbroker.
(c)
Persons who violate this article shall be guilty of a misdemeanor.
(Ord. No. 09-10-CCO, § 6-72, 12-1-2009)
Secs. 8-97—8-115. - Reserved.
