Chapter 1 - GENERAL PROVISIONS[1]

Footnotes:
--- (1) ---
State Law reference— Municipal home rule, Ga. Const. art. 9, § 2, ¶ 2; O.C.G.A. § 36-35-1 et seq.; exemplification of municipal minutes and other records, O.C.G.A. § 24-7-21; authority to adopt ordinances, resolutions or regulations, O.C.G.A. § 36-35-3.

Sec. 1-1. - How Code designated and cited.
The provisions embraced in the following chapters and sections shall constitute and be designated "The Code of Ordinances of the City of Villa Rica, Georgia," and may be so cited. The Code may also be cited as "[t]he Code of the City of Villa Rica," the "Villa Rica City Code," or the "city Code."
(Code 1979, § 1-1-1; Code 1993, § 1-1)
Sec. 1-2. - Definitions and rules of construction.
(a)
All words and phrases shall be construed and understood according to the common and approved usage of the language, but technical words and phrases and any others as may have acquired a peculiar and appropriate meaning in the law shall be construed and understood according to the peculiar and appropriate meaning.
(b)
Unless such construction would be inconsistent with the manifest intent of the city council, in the construction of this Code, and of all ordinances, the following rules shall also be observed:
Acts by agents. When any provision of this Code requires an act to be done which may by law as well be done by an agent as by the principal, the requisition shall be construed to include all such acts when done by an authorized agent.
City. The term "city" means the City of Villa Rica, Georgia.
Code. The term "Code" means The Code of Ordinances of the City of Villa Rica, Georgia, as designated in section 1-1.
Computation of time. Unless otherwise specifically provided, whenever a notice is required to be given or an act is required to be done, a certain length of time before a proceeding may begin or before some subsequent action may be done, the day on which the notice is given or on which the prior act is done shall be counted in computing the time, but the day on which the proceeding may begin, or on which the subsequent act may or must be done, shall not be counted. If the time provided is ten days or less, Sundays shall not be included in computing the time, nor shall state or national legal holidays or the date of any election to be held in the city. If the effect of these rules of time computation is to cause the date of the proceeding or the date of the subsequent act to fall on a Sunday, a state or national legal holiday, or the date of any election to be held in the city, the date of the proceeding or the date of the subsequent act shall be postponed until the next regular business day that is not a Sunday, legal holiday or election day. If the time provided is more than ten days, all Sundays, legal holidays and election days during the running of the period of time shall be included in the computation thereof, but if the effect of compliance with these rules is to cause the ending date to fall on a Sunday, legal holiday or election day, the time shall be extended to the next regular business day in the same manner as that provided for time periods of ten days or less.
Council, city council or mayor and council. The term "council," "city council" or "mayor and council" means the city council of the City of Villa Rica, Georgia.
County. The term "county" means the County of Carroll, Georgia, or the County of Douglas, Georgia, whichever may be proper under the circumstances, or both of them if that construction be appropriate. If a notice is required to be advertised in the legal newspaper of "the county," then, unless otherwise specified, the notice shall be published in both Carroll County and Douglas County.
Delegation of authority. Whenever a provision requires the head of a department or an official of the city to do some act or perform some function, it shall be construed to authorize the head of such department or the official to designate, delegate and authorize subordinates to do the required act or perform the required function, unless the terms of the provisions designate otherwise.
Gender. A word importing the masculine gender only shall extend and be applied to females and to firms, partnerships and corporations as well as to males.
Governing body. The term "governing body" means the city council composed of the mayor and five councilmembers as provided in the city Charter.
Interpretation. In the interpretation and application of any provision, it shall be held to be the minimum requirements adopted for the promotion of the public health, safety, comfort, convenience and general welfare. Where any provision imposes greater restrictions upon the subject matter than the general provisions imposed by the Code, the provision imposing the greater restriction or regulation shall be controlling.
Joint authority. All words purporting to give a joint authority to three or more city officers or other persons shall be construed as giving such authority to a majority of the officers or other persons unless it shall be otherwise expressly declared in the provisions giving the authority.
May. The term "may" is always directory and not mandatory.
Number. Words used in the singular shall include the plural, and words used in the plural shall include the singular number.
Oath. The term "oath" includes an affirmation in all cases in which by law an affirmation may be substituted for an oath, and in such cases the terms "swear" and "sworn" shall be equivalent to the terms "affirm" and "affirmed."
O.C.G.A. The abbreviation "O.C.G.A" means the latest edition of the Official Code of Georgia Annotated, as amended.
Or, and. "Or" may be read "and," and "and" may be read "or," if the sense requires it.
Other officials or officers, etc. Whenever reference is made to officials, boards, commissions, departments, etc., by title only (i.e., "city clerk," "chief of police," etc.), they shall be deemed to refer to the officials, boards, commissions, departments, etc., of the City of Villa Rica, Georgia.
Overlapping provisions. Where any provision of this Code imposes greater restrictions upon the subject matter than any general provisions imposed by this Code, the provision imposing the greater restriction or regulation shall be applicable.
Person. The term "person" shall extend and be applied to firms, partnerships, associations, organizations and bodies politic and corporate, or any combination thereof, as well as to individuals.
Schedule of fees and charges. The term "schedule of fees and charges" means the official consolidated list compiled and published by the city which contains rates for utility and other public enterprises, fees, deposit amounts and various charges as determined from time to time by the city council, an official copy of which is maintained in the office of the city clerk where it is available for reference and review during normal business hours.
Shall. The term "shall" is always mandatory and not directory.
Signature and subscription. The terms "signature" and "subscription" include a mark when the person cannot write.
State. The term "state" means the State of Georgia.
Street. The term "street" embraces streets, avenues, boulevards, roads, alleys, lanes, viaducts and all other public streets and ways in the city and shall embrace all parts thereof constituting the designated rights-of-way.
Tense. Words used in the past or present tense include the future as well as the past or present.
Year. The term "year," unqualified, shall mean a calendar year.
(Code 1979, § 1-1-2; Code 1993, § 1-2)
State Law reference— Computation of time, O.C.G.A. § 1-3-1; construction of definitions, O.C.G.A. § 1-3-2; meaning of certain words, O.C.G.A. § 1-3-3; time, O.C.G.A. § 9-11-6.
Sec. 1-3. - Catchlines of sections; history notes and references.
(a)
The catchlines of sections of this Code, printed in boldface type, are intended as mere catchwords to indicate the contents of the section and shall not be deemed or taken to be titles of the sections, nor as any part of the section, nor, unless expressly so provided, shall they be so deemed when any of the sections including the catchlines are amended or reenacted.
(b)
The history notes appearing in parentheses after each section and the references and editor's notes scattered throughout the Code are for the benefit of the user of the Code and shall have no legal effect.
(Code 1979, § 1-1-3; Code 1993, § 1-3)
State Law reference— Notes and catchlines of Code sections not part of law, O.C.G.A. § 1-1-7.
Sec. 1-4. - Effect of repeal of ordinances.
(a)
The repeal of an ordinance shall not revive any ordinances in force before or at the time the ordinance repealed took effect.
(b)
The repeal of an ordinance shall not affect any punishment or penalty incurred before the repeal took effect, nor any suit, prosecution or proceeding pending at the time of the repeal for an offense committed under the ordinance repealed.
(Code 1979, § 1-1-4; Code 1993, § 1-4)
Sec. 1-5. - Severability of parts of Code.
It is hereby declared to be the intention of the city council that the sections, paragraphs, sentences, clauses and phrases of this Code are severable, and if any phrase, clause, sentence, paragraph or section of this Code shall be declared unconstitutional or otherwise invalid by the valid judgment or decree of a court of competent jurisdiction, that unconstitutionality or invalidity shall not affect any of the remaining phrases, clauses, sentences, paragraphs and sections of this Code.
(Code 1979, § 1-1-5; Code 1993, § 1-5)
State Law reference— Severability, O.C.G.A. § 1-1-3.
Sec. 1-6. - Amendments to Code; effect of new ordinances; amendatory language.
(a)
All ordinances passed subsequent to this Code which amend, repeal or in any way affect this Code may be numbered in accordance with the numbering system of this Code and printed for inclusion herein. When subsequent ordinances repeal any chapter, section or subsection or any portion thereof, the repealed portion may be excluded from this Code by omission from reprinted pages.
(b)
Amendments to any of the provisions of this Code shall be made by amending the provisions by specific reference to the section of this Code in substantially the following language: "Section ___ of The Code of Ordinances of the City of Villa Rica, Georgia, is hereby amended to read as follows: …." (Set out new provisions in full.)
(c)
When the council desires to enact an ordinance of a general and permanent nature on a subject not heretofore existing in the Code, which the council desires to incorporate into the Code, a section in substantially the following language shall be made a part of the ordinance:
"Section ___. It is the intention of the city council and it is hereby ordained that the provisions of this ordinance shall become and be made a part of The Code of Ordinances of the City of Villa Rica, Georgia, and the sections of the Code and this ordinance may be renumbered to accomplish that intention."
(d)
All sections, articles, chapters or provisions of this Code desired to be repealed shall be specifically repealed by section or chapter number, as the case may be.
(Code 1979, § 1-1-6; Code 1993, § 1-6)
Sec. 1-7. - Altering Code.
It shall be unlawful for any person to change, or amend by additions or deletions, any part or portion of this Code, or to insert or delete pages or portions thereof, or to alter or tamper with the Code in any manner whatsoever which will cause the law of the city to be misrepresented thereby. Any person violating this section shall be punished as provided in section 1-8.
(Code 1979, § 1-1-7; Code 1993, § 1-7)
State Law reference— Altering, falsifying or stealing public records unlawful, O.C.G.A. § 45-11-1.
Sec. 1-8. - General penalty.
(a)
In this section the term "violation of this Code or any ordinance, rule, regulation or order," or "violation of any such provision of this Code or any such ordinance, rule, regulation or order" means any of the following:
(1)
Doing an act that is prohibited or made or declared unlawful, an offense, a violation or a misdemeanor by ordinance, by statute adopted by reference in this Code, by state rule or regulation adopted by reference in this Code, or by rule or regulation authorized by ordinance.
(2)
Failure to perform an act that is required to be performed by ordinance, by statute adopted by reference in this Code, by state rule or regulation adopted by reference in this Code or by rule or regulation authorized by ordinance.
(3)
Failure to perform an act if the failure is prohibited or is made or declared unlawful, an offense, a violation or a misdemeanor by ordinance, by statute adopted by reference in this Code, by state rule or regulation adopted by reference in this Code or by rule or regulation authorized by ordinance.
(b)
In this section the term "violation of this Code" or "violation of any such provision of this Code or any such ordinance" does not include the failure of a city officer or city employee to perform an official duty unless it is specifically provided that the failure to perform the duty is to be punished as provided in this section.
(c)
Unless a higher penalty is otherwise specified, whenever in this Code or in any ordinance, rule, regulation or order of the city any act is prohibited or is made or declared to be unlawful or an offense, or whenever in the Code or any ordinance, rule, regulation or order the doing of any act is required or the failure to do any act is declared to be unlawful, where no specific penalty is provided therefore, the violation of any such provision of this Code or any ordinance, rule, regulation or order shall be punished, at the discretion of the municipal judge, by a fine not to exceed $1,000.00 or imprisonment in the city jail for not more than six months, or both, or as alternative to fine and imprisonment, by labor on the city work gang for not more than 30 days.
(Code 1979, § 1-1-8; Code 1993, § 1-8)
State Law reference— Penalty to be imposed in certain criminal and traffic cases and upon violation of bond, O.C.G.A. § 15-21-73; authority to confine persons convicted of violating ordinances, O.C.G.A. § 36-30-8; punishments authorized, O.C.G.A. § 36-32-1(c); limitations on home rule powers, O.C.G.A. § 36-35-6; revenues collected from fines and fees, O.C.G.A. § 47-17-60 et seq.
Sec. 1-9. - Liability for violations by corporations, other associations.
(a)
Any violation of this Code by any officer, agent or other person acting for or employed by any corporation or unincorporated association or organization, while acting within the scope of his office or employment, shall in every case also be deemed to be a violation by such corporation, association or organization.
(b)
Any officer, agent or other person acting for or employed by any corporation or unincorporated association or organization shall be subject and liable to punishment as well as such corporation or unincorporated association or organization for the violation by it of any provisions of this Code, where such violation was the act or omission, or the result of the act, omission or order, of any such person.
(Code 1993, § 1-9)
Sec. 1-10. - Supplementation of Code.
(a)
By contract or by city personnel, supplements to this Code shall be prepared on an annual basis. A supplement to the Code shall include all substantive, permanent and general parts of ordinances passed by the city council during the period covered by the supplement and all changes made thereby in the Code. The pages of a supplement shall be so numbered that they will fit properly into the Code and will, where necessary, replace pages that have become obsolete or partially obsolete, and the new pages shall be so prepared that, when they have been inserted, the Code will be current through the date of the adoption of the latest ordinance included in the supplement.
(b)
In preparing a supplement to this Code, all portions of the Code which have been repealed shall be excluded from the Code by the omission thereof from reprinted pages.
(c)
When preparing a supplement to this Code, the codifier (meaning the person, agency or organization authorized to prepare the supplement) may make formal, nonsubstantive changes in ordinances and parts of ordinances included in the supplement, insofar as it is necessary to do so to embody them into a unified Code. For example, the codifier may:
(1)
Organize the ordinance material into appropriate subdivisions.
(2)
Provide appropriate catchlines, headings and titles for sections and other subdivisions of the Code printed in the supplement, and make changes in such catchlines, headings and titles.
(3)
Assign appropriate numbers to sections and other subdivisions to be inserted in the Code and, where necessary to accommodate new material, change existing section or other subdivision numbers.
(4)
Change the words "this ordinance" or words of the same meaning to "this chapter," "this article," "this division," etc., as the case may be, or to "sections ___ to ___" (inserting section numbers to indicate the sections of the Code which embody the substantive sections of the ordinance incorporated into the Code).
(5)
Make other nonsubstantive changes necessary to preserve the original meanings of ordinance sections inserted into the Code; but in no case shall the codifier make any change in the meaning or effect of ordinance material included in the supplement or already embodied in the Code.
(Code 1993, § 1-10)
Sec. 1-11. - Provisions considered continuations of existing ordinances.
The provisions appearing in this Code, so far as they are the same as ordinances adopted prior to this Code and included in such Code, shall be considered as continuations thereof and not as new enactments.
(Code 1993, § 1-11)
Sec. 1-12. - Rates, charges, and fees established.
(a)
Unless otherwise provided for, all rates, charges, or fees necessary for the administration and enforcement of the provisions of this Code shall be as currently established or as hereafter adopted by motion, resolution or ordinance of the city council, from time to time. Any rates, charges, or fees established by the city pursuant to the regulations or requirements established herein may be changed from time to time by the city council, and such changes shall both be considered an amendment to this Code.
(b)
Whenever any provision of this Code provides that a rate, charge, or fee shall be established by the city council, from time to time, and the amount of such rate, charge, or fee is not expressed in this Code in any dollar amount, then the amount of such rate, charge, or fee shall be the most recent and latest amount established, set or fixed by the city council by ordinance, resolution or motion.
Sec. 1-13. - Ordinances not affected by Code.
(a)
Nothing in this Code or the ordinance adopting this Code shall be construed to repeal or otherwise affect the validity of any of the following:
(1)
Any offense or act committed or done or any penalty or forfeiture incurred or any contract or right established or accruing before the effective date of this Code.
(2)
Any ordinance or resolution promising or guaranteeing the payment of money for the city or authorizing the issuance of any bonds of the city or any evidence of the city's indebtedness.
(3)
Any contract or obligation assumed by the city.
(4)
Any ordinance fixing the salary of any city officer or employee.
(5)
Any right or franchise granted by the city.
(6)
Any ordinance dedicating, naming, establishing, locating, relocating, opening, widening, paving, etc., any street or public way in the city.
(7)
Any appropriation ordinance.
(8)
Any ordinance which, by its own terms, is effective for a stated or limited term.
(9)
Any ordinance providing for local improvements and assessing taxes therefor.
(10)
Any zoning ordinance or the Unified Development Code.
(11)
Any ordinance dedicating or accepting any subdivision plat.
(12)
Any ordinance describing or altering the boundaries of the city.
(13)
The administrative ordinances or resolutions of the city not in conflict or inconsistent with the provisions of this Code.
(14)
Any ordinance levying or imposing taxes not included herein.
(15)
Any ordinance establishing or prescribing street grades in the city.
(b)
Nor such ordinance shall be construed to revive any ordinance or part thereof that has been repealed by a subsequent ordinance which is repealed by this chapter. All such ordinances are hereby recognized as continuing in full force and effect to the same extent as if set out at length herein.
(Code 1993, § 1-12)
