ARTICLE V. - EMPLOYEE IDENTIFICATION CARDS

Sec. 4-154. - Required; issuance; revocation.
(a)
An employee identification card shall be required for any employee of a consumption-on-the-premises licensee who handles alcoholic beverages on the licensed premises or for any employee filling a growler, handling a growler, or offering growler samples.
(b)
Any person required to obtain an employee identification card shall apply to the city police department for such a card, which card when issued shall be valid for a period of two years and shall be renewed on or before its expiration. A fee of $10.00 shall be paid with each card application. Persons applying for cards shall make themselves available for photographing, fingerprinting, and such other investigation as may be required by the police department. The police department may provisionally grant an employee identification card to a person applying for a card, pending investigation and report.
(c)
Where such report, when received, is unfavorable, the chief of police may revoke the card and demand its return.
(d)
The chief of police may revoke an employee identification card and demand its return where the employee violates the provisions of this chapter or becomes one who adversely affects the public health, safety, or welfare.
(e)
It shall be unlawful for an employee whose employee identification card has been revoked and upon whom demand for return of the card has been made to refuse to return the card or to alter, conceal, deface, or destroy the card.
(f)
When a person applies for an employee identification card, the chief of police or his designee shall have a complete and extensive search made to determine if there is a police record of such person. The conviction of a felony within the past ten years, a second conviction of an alcohol-related misdemeanor, or a record of other conduct prohibited by this chapter, or evidence that the person's employment would adversely affect the public health, safety, or welfare shall preclude issuance of an identification card.
(g)
A plea of nolo contendere or the forfeiture of a bond shall be considered a conviction for purposes of this section.
(h)
A new search may be conducted on any person issued an employee identification card if the chief of police receives information which warrants such a new search. If the new search reveals evidence that warrants revocation of the card, the card may be revoked.
(i)
When any employee identification card is denied or revoked, the chief of police shall issue to the applicant or card holder a letter stating that the person does not meet the requirements of this chapter.
(j)
All employees required to obtain an employee identification card shall be required to display same in a manner readily visible to customers and authorized agents of the city at all times while on duty status at the premises of his employer, including breaks. For purposes of this section the term "break" shall include all temporary relief from duty status during the employee's work period. No employee required to obtain an employee identification card shall display same at any time except on duty status at the premises of his employer.
(k)
Employees of licensees in good standing on the effective date of the ordinance from which this article was derived who will be required to obtain an employee identification card shall be issued such a card without charge or investigation as required by this section. The card shall be valid for a period of two years and shall be renewed on or before its expiration.
(Ord. No. 0-07-2020 , 8-11-2020; Ord. No. 0-33-2022 , 4-12-2022)
Sec. 4-155. - Continuation of existing cards.
All licensees for consumption on the premises in good standing on the effective date of the ordinance from which this article was derived shall submit to the police department a list of the names, addresses and telephone numbers of present employees who will be involved in selling, serving, taking orders for or handling alcoholic beverages and therefore requiring an employee identification card.
(Ord. No. 0-07-2020 , 8-11-2020; Ord. No. 0-33-2022 , 4-12-2022)
Sec. 4-156. - Employees restricted.
No licensee shall knowingly employ on any licensed premises, in any capacity whatsoever, any person who has been convicted within the preceding ten years of any crime involving moral turpitude.
(Ord. No. 0-07-2020 , 8-11-2020; Ord. No. 0-33-2022 , 4-12-2022)
Secs. 4-157—4-180. - Reserved.
