Chapter 14 - MUNICIPAL COURT[1]

Footnotes:
--- (1) ---
State Law reference— Municipal authority to establish, maintain and operate a municipal court, O.C.G.A. § 36-32-1 et seq.; city courts generally, O.C.G.A. § 15-8-1 et seq.

Sec. 14-1. - Sessions of court generally.
A regular session of the municipal court shall be held twice each month at a fixed hour of a fixed day as may be determined by the judge, provided any session may be dispensed with when there is no business pending in the court or no cases are ready for trial.
(Code 1979, § 2-4-1; Code 1993, § 12-1)
Sec. 14-2. - Special sessions of court.
The judge may hold special sessions when, in his judgment, it is necessary or there is urgent cause for the trial of accused persons, before the next regular sitting of the court. The necessity or urgency of the cause shall be presumed from the fact of a session being held.
(Code 1979, § 2-4-2; Code 1993, § 12-2)
Sec. 14-3. - Police attendance.
It shall be the duty of the chief of police or his deputy, or some member of the police force designated by the judge, to attend each session of the court to act as bailiff, and the duty of each police officer making the arrest or having knowledge of the case for or against the defendant, to attend the trial of any person brought before the judge.
(Code 1979, § 2-4-3; Code 1993, § 12-3)
Sec. 14-4. - Clerk of court; subpoenas; dockets.
It shall be the duty of the city clerk, or an appropriate designee, to attend each session of the municipal court and serve as clerk of court. The clerk of court shall:
(1)
Prepare all subpoenas and warrants and maintain a docket thereof that will show the name of the person for whom the subpoena or warrant was issued, its date, at whose instance it was issued and to whom it was delivered.
(2)
When required by the judge, maintain a duplicate court docket and use the signed duplicate copy of the docket to make necessary entries in the master docket after each session of court, the master or original to be retained by the clerk.
(3)
Be authorized to make continuations of a case for good cause shown.
(Code 1979, § 2-4-4; Code 1993, § 12-4)
Sec. 14-5. - Jury trial; bind over.
(a)
All charges cognizable as violations of state laws may be handled by a commitment hearing; provided, however, that they may be adjudicated in the municipal court whenever the court would have jurisdiction over the offense, and the defendant, in writing, waives any right to trial by jury.
(b)
When a defendant is bound over to the appropriate state court, he may be released by making bond at the county jail book-in and an arraignment notice will then be given to the defendant and the defendant must be delivered, in person, by the city police, to the county authorities.
(Code 1979, § 2-4-5; Code 1993, § 12-5)
Sec. 14-6. - Appearance bond; procedure for accepting.
Offenses against city ordinances shall be bailable as follows:
(1)
The arresting officer, chief of police, municipal judge or any other officer designated by the chief of police may accept bond of the accused payable to the city conditioned upon the appearance of the accused at the next session or any subsequent session of the municipal court as stated in the bond, to answer the charge.
(2)
The bond shall be in writing in an amount established in a schedule approved by the mayor and council.
(3)
No city employee, city official or any person who receives any compensation whatsoever from the city shall be accepted on any bond of any person arrested by the city.
(4)
A person arrested for violation of a city ordinance may be released on his own recognizance or may deposit, in lieu of an appearance bond, his driver's license with the arresting officer, the police chief or the judge if, in any of these officials' determination, the person will appear at the time set for the court appearance in view of the following considerations:
a.
The seriousness of the offense charged.
b.
The penalty provided by law.
c.
The number of charges pending against the defendant.
d.
The criminal record of the defendant.
e.
The residence of the defendant and the length of time of residence.
f.
The defendant's age.
g.
The defendant's marital status and number of children.
h.
Residency of the relatives of the defendant.
i.
Employment of defendant (by whom, nature of work and how long employed).
j.
Former employment.
k.
Amount of earnings.
l.
The defendant's character, reputation and previous criminal history.
m.
The defendant's mental condition.
n.
Whether the defendant has membership in any clubs or societies; church affiliation and other things which could show that he is a responsible member of the community with established community ties.
(5)
Any person released under subsection (4) of this section shall receive a receipt for any driver's license deposited or, if released on the person's own recognizance, shall sign and receive a copy of the citation or ticket describing the violation for which the person was arrested.
(Code 1979, § 2-4-6; Code 1993, § 12-6)
Sec. 14-7. - Continuance of cases.
Continuances shall be made only for good cause shown. Prior to the scheduled court appearance, the clerk of court, the judge, or a designee of the judge may grant continuations of a case.
(Code 1979, § 2-4-7; Code 1993, § 12-7)
Sec. 14-8. - Forfeiture of appearance bonds.
(a)
The judge or his designee shall call the case in its regular order, and if the accused is not in court and does not answer the call, and if no good and sufficient reason is given for nonappearance, the judge may enter on the docket where the case is stated "Bond forfeited," or similar words.
(b)
Upon forfeiture of any bond, the cash or property deposited as security shall become the property of the city, as provided in the city Charter.
(c)
Upon the forfeiture of any bond signed by a person as surety, an execution shall be issued thereon as provided in the city Charter.
(Code 1979, § 2-4-8; Code 1993, § 12-8)
Sec. 14-9. - Pleas.
(a)
The defendant shall enter one of the following pleas:
(1)
Guilty.
(2)
Not guilty.
(3)
Nolo contendere (with the permission of the court).
(4)
A former judgment of conviction or acquittal of the offense charged.
(b)
If the defendant refuses to enter a plea, the court shall enter a plea of not guilty.
(Code 1979, § 2-4-10; Code 1993, § 12-9)
Sec. 14-10. - Fines; payment in advance of court date.
Persons charged with violations may, if accepted by the clerk of court, the judge, or a designee of the judge, prior to the time for their court appearance, plead guilty and pay to the city as their fine the amount set as the appearance bond for the offense charged.
(Code 1979, § 2-4-11; Code 1993, § 12-10)
Sec. 14-11. - Appearance of complaining witnesses.
A material or complaining witness in any contested prosecution shall appear at the session at which the prosecution is docketed. The prosecution may be dismissed if the material witness fails to appear, upon approval of the court.
(Code 1979, § 2-4-12; Code 1993, § 12-11)
Sec. 14-12. - Judgment and sentences.
Upon a judgment or plea of guilty or nolo contendere the court shall impose sentence. The court may:
(1)
Impose a fine, with or without a commitment for confinement, compulsory work or both;
(2)
Commit the defendant to confinement, compulsory work or both;
(3)
Suspend the execution of the sentence in whole or in part;
(4)
Defer the execution of the sentence or any portion or portions thereof to one or more fixed dates in the future; or
(5)
In addition to or in combination with any of the actions enumerated in subsections (1) through (4) of this section, impose either supervised or unsupervised probation.
(Code 1979, § 2-4-13; Code 1993, § 12-12)
Sec. 14-13. - Court dates; contempt warrants.
(a)
The court date will be made known to the defendant at the time of the arrest process and shall be properly indicated on the copy of charges given to the defendant by the arresting officer.
(b)
Warrants for contempt of court charges or the failure to appear may be issued following each session of court.
(Code 1979, § 2-4-14; Code 1993, § 12-13)
Sec. 14-14. - Information technology fee.
(a)
Information technology fee. An information technology fee shall be added to any fine imposed by the municipal court for any conviction of any state law or local ordinance within the court's jurisdiction.
(b)
Multiple citations and convictions. In the event of multiple violations the fee shall be charged per violation of any of the laws or ordinances of the city or any laws of the state.
(c)
Amount of fee. The fee shall be $15.00. Mandatory state add-ons shall be calculated based on the sum of the underlying fine in addition to the information technology fee.
(d)
Deposits and use. The information technology fee shall be deposited in the city's general fund, but shall be traced and only be used for expenditures related to technology needs in the municipal court of the city and any ancillary financial technology needs of the municipal court of the city. Funds collected pursuant to this section shall be accounted for by the city and shall be used only for the purposes authorized in this section at the direction of the city manager.
(e)
Exceptions. The technology fee shall not be added to any fine in which Georgia law prohibits any additional fees to be added to such fine. Examples of such violations are failure to wear a safety belt pursuant to O.C.G.A. § 40-8-76.1(E)(2) and failure to not properly restrain a child passenger in an automobile pursuant to O.C.G.A. § 40-8-76(B)(2).
(Ord. No. 07-18-CCO , §§ 1—5, 7-10-2018)
