ARTICLE II. - MAYOR AND CITY COUNCIL[2]
Footnotes:
--- (2) ---
State Law reference— Powers relating to administration of government generally, O.C.G.A. § 36-34-2; the Municipal Home Rule Act of 1965, O.C.G.A. § 36-35-1 et seq.

DIVISION 1. - GENERALLY

Sec. 2-19. - Exercise of governmental authority.
The corporate governmental powers of the City shall be exercised by the Mayor and City Council in the manner provided by Charter and by the provisions of this Chapter.
(Code 1978, § 2-26)
Sec. 2-20. - General authority.
The Mayor shall be the chief executive officer of the City government, shall enforce the laws of the City, and shall require the faithful performance of all administrative duties.
(Code 1978, § 2-27)
Sec. 2-21. - Legislative authority generally.
The City Council shall exercise the legislative functions of the City, and may pass any ordinance or resolution that it deems best for the government of the City in the manner set forth in this Chapter; provided, that the same is not in conflict with the Charter of the City, the Constitution or laws of the State, or the Constitution or laws of the United States.
(Code 1978, § 2-28)
Secs. 2-22—2-47. - Reserved.
Editor's note— The former § 2-22, which pertained to candidates and derived from the Code of 1978, § 2-391, has been deleted at the direction of the city.
DIVISION 2. - MAYOR

Sec. 2-48. - Duties.
The Mayor shall have the following duties:
(1)
Presiding at meetings. To preside at all meetings of the City Council, but the Mayor shall not be allowed to vote at such meetings except in the case of a tie vote by the Council on any question.
(2)
Appointment of standing committees. To appoint at the first meeting of each year, or as soon thereafter as expedient, standing committees for that year; but the Mayor may at any time alter the committees and make such changes as the interest of the City may require.
(3)
Appointment of officers and employees. To appoint, by and with the advice and consent of the City Council, all officers and employees of the City whose election or appointment is not otherwise provided for.
(4)
Executing legal documents. To sign and execute all contracts, deeds and bonds of the City duly authorized by the Mayor and City Council.
(Code 1978, § 2-46)
Sec. 2-49. - Powers.
The Mayor shall have the following powers:
(1)
Rule making. To prescribe such rules and regulations as may be deemed necessary or expedient for the conduct of administrative agencies subject to his authority, and to revoke, suspend or amend any rule or regulation of the administrative service by whomever prescribed.
(2)
Investigation. To investigate and to examine or inquire into, either by himself or by any officer or person designated for the purpose by him, the affairs or operation of any department, including the power to employ consultants and professional counsel when so authorized by the Council to aid in such investigations, examinations, or inquiries.
(3)
Overriding. To set aside any action taken by a department head and to supersede him in the functions of his office.
(4)
Delegation. To direct any department to perform the work for any other department, and to authorize any department head or officer responsible to him to appoint and remove subordinates serving under such person.
(Code 1978, § 2-47)
Sec. 2-50. - Mayor Pro Tempore; Acting Mayor.
At the first regular meeting of the Mayor and City Council after election and qualification, they shall elect one of their members Mayor Pro Tempore, whose term of office shall be two years, and during the sickness, absence or disqualification of the Mayor, the Mayor Pro Tempore, or in his sickness, absence or disqualification, any one of the Councilmembers chosen by the members present may be appointed Acting Mayor with all the rights and privileges of the office.
(Code 1978, § 2-48; Ord. No. 2021-07 , 10-7-2021)
Secs. 2-51—2-73. - Reserved.
DIVISION 3. - CITY COUNCIL

Sec. 2-74. - Regular meeting days and place.
(a)
Regular meetings of the City Council shall be held on the first and third Thursdays of each month, at the City Hall.
(b)
Special meetings of the City Council may be held in accordance with the provisions of O.C.G.A. § 50-14-1(d).
(Code 1978, § 2-66)
State Law reference— Meetings to be open to public, O.C.G.A. § 50-14-1 et seq.; excluded proceedings, O.C.G.A. § 50-14-3.
Sec. 2-75. - Rules for the conduct of business.
(a)
Call to order. Except as otherwise provided in subsection (j) of this section, all meetings of the City Council shall be open to the public. The Mayor, or in his absence the Mayor Pro Tempore, shall take the chair at the hour appointed for any regular, temporarily adjourned, special or called meeting; and shall immediately call the Council to order.
(b)
Quorum. A majority of all the members elected to the City Council shall constitute a quorum at any regular or special meeting of the Council; and an affirmative vote of a majority of such number shall be sufficient to permit the conduct of all business except that for which a larger vote has been mandated by this Code.
(c)
Order of business. Unless otherwise provided in a previously prepared agenda, the following order of business shall be observed:
(1)
Reading the minutes;
(2)
Petitions and communications;
(3)
Report of special committees;
(4)
Unfinished business;
(5)
Resolutions, orders and ordinances;
(6)
Report of officers; then
(7)
Trial of appeals.
(d)
Reports by committees. Any business coming before the City Council concerning the subject matter of which any standing or special committee has jurisdiction may be referred to the proper committee for investigation and report. It shall be the duty of each standing or special committee, whenever required by the Mayor or by the City Council, or any member of the City Council, to examine any matter referred to such committee and make a report thereof at the next regular meeting of the City Council, or show good cause why no report is made. Such reports shall not be in writing unless so directed by the presiding officer. Each standing committee shall examine into the condition of the matters within its jurisdiction, and make such reports and recommendations from time to time as may be necessary.
(e)
Manner of speaking on subject. No member, while the City Council is in session, shall speak on any subject unless recognized by the presiding officer. Every speaker shall address the chair, and no member shall interrupt anyone who is speaking, except to call him to order or for explanation.
(f)
Limitations on addressing Council. Any person not a member of the City Council who desires to address the City Council shall first secure the permission of the presiding officer to do so, and then shall step up in front of the rail, give his name and address in an audible tone of voice for the record, and direct his remarks to the City Council as a body rather than to any particular member, limiting such remarks to ten minutes unless additional time is granted by the City Council.
(g)
Rules governing introduction, passage, etc., of ordinances. The following rules shall apply to the introduction, passage, amendment or repeal of ordinances of the City:
(1)
It shall be in order at each regular monthly meeting of the Council to introduce matters other than ordinances without previous notice having been given for that purpose.
(2)
Every ordinance before its introduction must be reduced to writing and available for public review. A notice of availability for public review and the intent to introduce must be published in the official organ of the County at least 14 days prior to introduction. Such a notice shall summarize the proposed ordinance, state that a copy of the proposed ordinance is available at City Hall for review by the public and state the date on which the proposed ordinance will be introduced.
(3)
No ordinance shall be entertained by the City Council that contains more than one subject matter; provided, however, this rule shall not apply to the adoption of a code of ordinances for the City.
(4)
No ordinance shall be declared passed and become a law of the City unless it receives at least three votes in favor of its passage.
(5)
No ordinance or resolution appropriating money shall be passed unless upon its passage the yeas and nays are recorded. All proceedings touching the appropriation of money shall be first considered in a committee of the whole City Council.
(6)
No ordinance or section of an ordinance shall be amended or repealed by mere reference to its title, but the amending or repealing ordinance shall distinctly describe the ordinance or code section to be amended or repealed, as well as the alteration to be made.
(h)
Recording vote. Whenever any member shall request it, the yeas and nays of the members present shall be recorded on the minutes on any question taken.
(i)
Questions of order. The presiding officer shall decide all questions of order, but any Councilmember who is dissatisfied with the decision may appeal to the City Council in the manner provided by the Council's established parliamentary procedure for appealing from decisions of presiding officers.
(j)
Executive session. The City Council may, at any time, authorized by law upon call therefor by the presiding officer or upon motion of a Councilmember duly carried, meet in executive session. Attendance at such sessions shall be limited to the Mayor and members of Council and such invitees as shall be invited with the unanimous consent of the Mayor and City Council.
(Code 1978, § 2-67; Ord. No. 2011-06, § I, 12-15-2011)
Sec. 2-76. - Standing committees of Council.
Committees of the City Council, appointed by the Mayor, shall be as follows:
(1)
Finance committee;
(2)
Police committee;
(3)
Public safety committee;
(4)
Utilities and services committee; and
(5)
Planning, zoning and building committee.
(Code 1978, § 2-68)
Secs. 2-77—2-95. - Reserved.
