Chapter 12 - FIRE PREVENTION AND PROTECTION
ARTICLE I. - IN GENERAL

Sec. 12-1. - Adoption of National Fire Prevention Codes.
There is hereby adopted by the city for the purpose of prescribing regulations governing conditions hazardous to life and property from fire or explosion those certain codes known as the National Fire Prevention Codes, as published by the National Fire Protection Association (NFPA), and as adopted and modified by Ga. Comp. Rules and Regs. ch. 120-3-3.
(Code 1979, § 10-101; Code 2003, § 91.01)
Sec. 12-2. - Amendments to code.
The National Fire Prevention Codes adopted herein is amended as follows: none.
(Code 1979, § 10-103; Code 2003, § 91.03)
Sec. 12-3. - Enforcement.
The National Fire Prevention Codes adopted herein shall be enforced by the fire chief and such subordinate officers and firefighters of the fire department as are required to effectuate the provisions of the code.
(Code 1979, § 10-104; Code 2003, § 91.04)
Sec. 12-4. - Power to make modifications.
The chief of the fire department shall be authorized to modify any of the provisions of the National Fire Prevention Codes upon application in writing by the owner or lessee of any property, or his duly authorized agent, when there are practical difficulties in the way of carrying out the strict letter of the code; provided, that the spirit of the code shall be observed and the public safety secured. The particulars of such modification when granted or allowed, and the decision of the fire chief thereon, shall be entered upon the records of the department, and a signed copy shall be forwarded to the applicant.
(Code 1979, § 10-105; Code 2003, § 91.05)
Sec. 12-5. - Penalty.
Any person who shall violate any of the provisions of the National Fire Prevention Codes or fail to comply therewith, or who shall violate or fail to comply with any order made thereunder, shall for each such failure or violation or noncompliance be punished by a fine not to exceed $100.00 and costs, or by imprisonment not to exceed months, or both, any and all of such penalties to be imposed in the discretion of the judge of the recorder's court.
(Code 1979, § 10-106; Code 2003, § 91.99)
Secs. 12-6—12-28. - Reserved.
ARTICLE II. - FIREWORKS

Sec. 12-29. - Title.
This article shall be known and designated as the "Fireworks Regulations Ordinance."
(Ord. No. 2016-08-02(b), § 1, 8-2-2016)
Sec. 12-30. - Definitions.
(a)
The following words, terms and phrases, when used in this article, shall have the meanings ascribed to them in this subsection, except where the context clearly indicates a different meaning:
Consumer fireworks means any small fireworks devices containing restricted amounts of pyrotechnic composition, designed primarily to produce visible or audible effects by combustion, that comply with the construction, chemical composition, and labeling regulations of the United States Consumer Product Safety Commission as provided for in 16 CFR 1500 and 1507, the United States Department of Transportation as provided for in 49 CFR 172 and the American Pyrotechnics Association as provided for in the 2001 American Pyrotechnics Association standard 87-1, and additionally shall mean roman candles.
Consumer fireworks retail sales facility means the same as provided for by NFPA 1124; provided, however, that the term "consumer fireworks retail sales facility" shall not include a tent, canopy, or membrane structure.
Consumer fireworks retail sales stand means the same as provided for by NFPA 1124; provided, however, that the term "consumer fireworks retail sales stand" shall not include a tent, canopy, or membrane structure.
Distributor means any person, firm, corporation, association, or partnership which sells consumer fireworks.
Electric plant means the same as provided for in O.C.G.A. § 46-3A-1.
Fireworks means any combustible or explosive composition or any substance or combination of substances or article prepared for the purpose of producing a visible or audible effect by combustion, explosion, deflagration, or detonation, including blank cartridges, skyrockets, bombs, sparklers, and other combustibles and explosives of like construction, as well as articles containing any explosive or flammable compound and tablets and other devices containing an explosive substance.
NFPA 1124 means the National Fire Protection Association standard 1124, Code for the Manufacture, Transportation, Storage, and Retail Sales of Fireworks and Pyrotechnic Articles, 2006 edition.
Nonprofit group means any entity exempt from taxation under section 501(c)(3) of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, any entity incorporated under O.C.G.A. title 14, chapter 3, Georgia Non-Profit Corporation Code, or a sponsored organization of a public or private elementary or secondary school in this state.
Proximate audience means an audience closer to pyrotechnic devices than permitted by the National Fire Protection Association standard 1123, Code for Fireworks Display, as adopted by the state safety fire commissioner.
Pyrotechnics means fireworks.
Store shall have the same meaning as provided for by NFPA 1124; provided, however, that the term "store" shall only include such buildings with at least 4,000 square feet of retail display space and wherefrom:
(1)
No more than 25 percent of such retail display space is used for consumer fireworks and items or products as provided for under subsection (b)(2) of this section; and
(2)
Other items or products which are not consumer fireworks or items or products as provided for under subsection (b)(2) of this section are sold; and, provided further, that the term "store" means a person, firm, corporation, association, or partnership with more than one mercantile location, with all such mercantile locations are collectively known to the public by the same name or share central management.
Wastewater treatment plant means the same as provided for in O.C.G.A. § 43-51-2.
Water treatment plant means the same as provided for in O.C.G.A. § 43-51-2.
(b)
As used in this article, the term "consumer fireworks" or "fireworks" shall not include:
(1)
Model rockets and model rocket engines designed, sold, and used for the purpose of propelling recoverable aero models, toy pistol paper caps in which the explosive content averages 0.25 grains or less of explosive mixture per paper cap or toy pistols, toy cannons, toy canes, toy guns, or other devices using such paper caps;
(2)
Ammunition consumed by weapons used for sporting and hunting purposes;
(3)
Wire or wood sparklers of 100 grams or less of mixture per item; other sparkling items which are nonexplosive and non-aerial and contain 75 grams or less of chemical compound per tube or a total of 500 grams or less for multiple tubes, snake and glow worms; smoke devices; or trick noise makers which include paper streamers, party poppers, string poppers, snappers, and drop pops each consisting of 0.25 grams or less of explosive mixture.
(Ord. No. 2016-08-02(b), § 2, 8-2-2016)
Sec. 12-31. - Limited prohibition as to consumer fireworks or fireworks.
(a)
It shall be unlawful for any person, firm, corporation, association, or partnership to offer for sale at retail or wholesale, to use or ignite or cause to be ignited, or to possess, manufacture, transport, or store any consumer fireworks or fireworks, within the city except as expressly authorized by the general law of the state, but also as limited by this article as follows:
(1)
It shall be unlawful for any person, firm, corporation, association or partnership to use or ignite or cause to be ignited any consumer fireworks or fireworks, within the city on any day after the time of 9:00 p.m., and up to and including the time of 11:59 p.m., and during the morning hours of 12:00 midnight until 10:00 a.m. of any day pursuant to the noise ordinance of the city and this article, except as otherwise provided for under subsection (a)(2) of this section or such use or ignition is allowed pursuant to the issuance of a special use permit pursuant to section 12-32.
(2)
Notwithstanding subsection (a)(1) of this section, the use or ignition of any consumer fireworks or fireworks within the city is further allowed for additional hours without a special use permit as follows:
a.
The use or ignition of any consumer fireworks or fireworks is allowed on January 1, July 3, July 4, and December 31 of each year after the time of 9:00 p.m. and up to and including the time of 11:59 p.m. without a special use permit; and
b.
The use or ignition of any consumer fireworks or fireworks within the city is allowed on January 1 of each year for the additional time of 12:00 midnight and up to and including the ending time of 1:00 a.m. without a special use permit.
(b)
The right to use or ignite or cause to be ignited any consumer fireworks or fireworks, as provided herein, is further subject to any regulations and restrictions concerning the use of consumer fireworks due to a declaration of drought by the state governor, and with the municipal city limits being within the boundaries of the area covered by the drought declaration. The regulations and restrictions of the drought declaration shall not be effective on January 1, July 3, July 4, or December 31 of any year. The drought regulations and restrictions shall also be rescinded upon the expiration or conclusion of the drought declaration. Any person that violates the drought regulations and restrictions by the use or ignition of consumer fireworks or fireworks will also be subject to a violation of this article, and subject to the penalties for violation of this article as provided herein.
(c)
It shall unlawful for any person, firm, corporation, association, or partnership to use or ignite or cause to be ignited any consumer fireworks or fireworks within the city in violation of O.C.G.A. §§ 25-10-2 and 25-10-2.1, and such violation shall be deemed to be a violation of this article, besides being a violation of state law.
(Ord. No. 2016-08-02(b), § 3, 8-2-2016)
Sec. 12-32. - Prohibition of consumer fireworks or fireworks in public areas or the use of fireworks at a time not authorized by the general law of the state except pursuant to a special use permit.
(a)
It shall be unlawful for any person, firm, corporation, association, or partnership to offer for sale at retail or wholesale, to use or ignite or cause to be ignited, or to possess, manufacture, transport, or store any consumer fireworks or fireworks, on, upon, or above any city property, including, but not limited to, the public areas of the city, including parks, or during the hours of 9:00 p.m. and up to and including the time of 11:59 p.m. on any day, except as provided herein and except as allowed by a special use permit issued by the city.
(b)
It shall be unlawful for any person, firm, corporation, association, or partnership to use or ignite or cause to be ignited any consumer fireworks on any day at a time not allowed by the general law of the state or this article within the city, or upon any city public property, or both, unless such person, firm, corporation, association, or partnership is issued a special use permit by the city council for the use or ignition of consumer fireworks in such ways. The applicant for a special use permit shall use the application forms of the city for said permit and shall designate the time and/or location that such person, firm, corporation, association, or partnership desires to use or ignite or cause to be ignited such consumer fireworks or fireworks. The city council shall consider the application and consider any reasonable factors, such as the time requested, the proposed location of the fireworks display, prior experience concerning the applicant's use of fireworks, the potential for fires or wildfires, and other reasonable factors, and in its discretion, based upon these factors, grant or deny the issuance of a special use permit. If the special use permit is granted by the city council, then the applicant shall pay a special use permit fee to the city. The special use permit fee shall be in an amount as established by the mayor and council from time to time. If the application is denied, then the applicant shall have a right of appeal to the superior court of the applicable county pursuant to the procedures for the grant of a writ of certiorari by said court. The city, the city council, and the agents of the city shall have no liability as to any decision made pursuant to this section.
(Ord. No. 2016-08-02(b), § 4, 8-2-2016)
Sec. 12-33. - Occupational tax for a licensed distributor operating a permanent consumer fireworks retail sales facility or store in the city.
A licensed distributor operating a permanent consumer fireworks retail sales facility or store shall be entitled to receive a city occupational tax license for said facility or store upon making application for said license from the city pursuant to the city's procedure and providing a copy of the license issued to the distributor and said permanent facility or store by the state safety fire commissioner or the judge of the probate court of the applicable county and as provided by general law. The occupational tax license fee for said licensed distributor shall be assessed for said licensed distributor upon the same basis as other businesses, professions, or occupations under the city's occupational tax ordinance. Any termination, revocation, or suspension of the license issued by the state safety fire commissioner shall act to automatically in similar fashion terminate, revoke, or suspend the city occupational tax license issued to said licensed distributor. If the licensed distributor selling consumer fireworks from a permanent consumer fireworks retails sales facility or store is a part of a store having multiple store locations as provided within O.C.G.A. § 25-10-5.1, then any city occupational tax license issued for said store location shall be sufficient to authorize the sale or the offer for sale at retail or wholesale any consumer fireworks or fireworks without having said store acquiring an additional occupational tax license from the city as to the sale of consumer fireworks or fireworks.
(Ord. No. 2016-08-02(b), § 5, 8-2-2016)
Sec. 12-34. - License for a temporary consumer fireworks retail sales stand.
The city is hereby authorized to issue a temporary license (and which shall also serve as a temporary occupational tax license) for a temporary consumer fireworks retail sales stand, provided that the city fire department, or the fire department that is legally authorized to operate within the city, determines that the temporary consumer fireworks retail sales stand meets the requirements of the general law of the state, including, but not limited to, O.C.G.A. § 25-10-5.1(a)(1) and (c)(1). In accordance with O.C.G.A. § 25-10-5.1(c)(2), a temporary license shall also be granted in the event that the judge of the probate court of the applicable county determines that such a temporary license should be issued due to an appeal of the decision by the applicable fire department. The application for the temporary consumer fireworks retail sales stand shall be submitted to the applicable fire department, and with a copy provided to the administrative office of the city. Any temporary license issued shall identify the temporary consumer fireworks retail sales stand applicable to such license, and the temporary license shall expire on the next January 31 after the issuance of such license. The license fee for a distributor selling consumer fireworks from a temporary consumer fireworks retail sales stand shall be per location, payable to the governing authority of the city. The license fee shall be in an amount as established by the mayor and council from time to time. The distributor shall provide a copy of the list of the distributor's temporary consumer retail sales stands submitted to the safety fire commissioner to the applicable fire department and the administrative office of the city as a part of the temporary license application. All temporary licenses for a temporary consumer fireworks retail sales stand shall only be issued to licensed distributors where the sales of consumer fireworks from at least one (out of two permitted) such temporary consumer fireworks retail sales stands shall accrue to the benefit of a nonprofit group as agreed between the licensed distributor and the participating nonprofit group. A nonprofit group benefitting from the sale of consumer fireworks pursuant to this provision shall directly participate in operating the temporary consumer fireworks retail sales stand.
(Ord. No. 2016-08-02(b), § 6, 8-2-2016)
Sec. 12-35. - Enforcement.
(a)
The city fire department, or any applicable fire department that operates within the city, is authorized to refer cases for enforcement as to violations of O.C.G.A. § 25-10-5.1(c) to the state fire marshal.
(b)
All fireworks or consumer fireworks manufactured, offered for sale, exposed for sale, stored, used, ignited or caused to be ignited in violation of this article or state law, or both, are declared to be contraband (including fireworks in the possession of the violator but not yet used, ignited or caused to be ignited) and may be seized, taken, and removed, or caused to be removed and destroyed or disposed of, by a sale with the proceeds of the sale to be used for public safety purposes, or destroyed at the expense of the owner thereof, or both, by any authorized law enforcement officer operating within the city. Any property declared as contraband pursuant to this article shall be forfeited in accordance with the procedures set forth in O.C.G.A. title 9, chapter 16.
(c)
Any law enforcement officer of the city, or any law enforcement officer authorized to provide law enforcement services within the city, shall be entitled to enforce the provisions of this article or state law, or both, relating to the use or igniting or causing to be ignited fireworks or consumer fireworks, or both.
(Ord. No. 2016-08-02(b), § 7, 8-2-2016)
Sec. 12-36. - Certain devices unlawful that require a flame for propulsion or lighting.
It shall be unlawful for any person, firm, corporation, association, or partnership to release or cause to be released any balloon, bag, parachute, or other similar device which requires fire underneath for propulsion or to release or cause to be released any floating water lantern or wish lantern which uses a flame to create a lighting effect in any public waters within the city.
(Ord. No. 2016-08-02(b), § 8, 8-2-2016)
Sec. 12-37. - Penalties.
Any person, firm, corporation, association, or partnership that knowingly violates the provisions of this article may be punished by a fine, or imprisonment, or both, up to the maximum penalties allowed under the city Charter, or pursuant to state law. Each act in violation of this article, including, but not limited to, each sales transaction, shall be deemed to be a separate offense, and subject to the maximum penalties as provided herein.
(Ord. No. 2016-08-02(b), § 9, 8-2-2016)
