ARTICLE I. - IN GENERAL

Sec. 10-1. - Applications.
Every person required to procure a license under the provisions of this chapter or any ordinance or law of this city shall submit an application for such license to the city clerk, which application shall conform to the requirements of this section.
(1)
Form of application. Each application shall be a written statement upon forms provided by the city clerk.
(2)
Contents of application. Each application shall contain the following information:
a.
Name and home address of the applicant, if an individual, or home office address, if a corporation or partnership;
b.
Place where the proposed business is to be located;
c.
Kind of business to be carried on;
d.
Name and home addresses of the partners, if a partnership;
e.
Names and home addresses of the officers and directors, if a corporation;
f.
Complete record of all arrests and convictions against the applicant and every partner, officer or director of the applicant for violations of any and all laws and ordinances of the city, state or federal government; and
g.
Such additional information which the city clerk or council may find reasonably necessary to the fair administration of this chapter.
(3)
Verification. Each application shall be sworn to by the applicant, if an individual, or by a partner, if a partnership, or by an officer, if a corporation.
(4)
Payment of fee. Each application shall be accompanied by the amount of the fee chargeable for such license, such amount to be prorated by quarters to the end of the fiscal year.
a.
Issuance of receipts. The city clerk shall issue a receipt to the applicant for the amount of the fee tendered with the application for a license, provided that such receipt shall not be construed as approval of the application, nor shall it entitle or authorize the applicant to open or maintain any business contrary to the provisions of this chapter.
b.
Rebate of fee. Upon the disapproval of any application for which a fee has been submitted under the provisions of this chapter, the city clerk shall refund such fee, provided that the applicant is not otherwise indebted to the city.
(5)
Confidentiality of information. All information furnished or secured under the authority of this section shall be kept in strict confidence by the city clerk, shall not be subject to public inspection and shall be utilized solely by the officers of the city responsible for administering the provisions of this chapter.
(6)
False statements. False statements on any application for a license shall be grounds for immediate revocation of such license.
(Code 1979, § 32-101; Code 2003, § 110.01)
Sec. 10-2. - Procedure for issuance.
(a)
Review by city officers. If any provision of this chapter or any licensing ordinance of the city provides for the review of an application for a license by a city officer designated therein, the city clerk shall forward a copy of the application to such officer within 48 hours of the time of the receipt of the application. The officer charged with the duty of reviewing the application shall make a recommendation thereon, favorable or otherwise, and shall return such recommendation to the city clerk within seven days after receiving a copy of the application.
(b)
Council consideration. Upon the receipt of the recommendation of the reviewing officer as herein provided, or upon the receipt of the application if no reviewing officer is designated, the city clerk shall forward such recommendation and/or application to the city council for consideration and action at its next regularly scheduled public meeting.
(c)
Limitation on issuance. No license shall be issued to any applicant whose place of business is not in full compliance with all minimum standard building codes adopted by the city.
(d)
Issuance of license. Upon the express approval of the city council, the city clerk shall issue a business license to the applicant therefore, which license shall state the nature of the business authorized and bear the date of issuance and the signatures of the mayor and city clerk.
(e)
Council discretion. The granting of a business license under the provisions of this chapter shall be deemed a privilege only, and nothing herein contained shall be construed as granting any person whose business is subject to municipal regulation any legal right to engage in such business.
(Code 1979, § 32-102; Code 2003, § 110.02)
Editor's note— The granting or denying of a business license is a discretionary rather than a ministerial act and cannot be delegated by the city council.
Sec. 10-3. - Display of license.
It shall be the duty of any person conducting a licensed business in the city to keep his license posted in a conspicuous place on the premises used for such business at all times.
(Code 1979, § 32-103; Code 2003, § 110.03)
Sec. 10-4. - Inspections.
(a)
Search of premises. Whenever inspections of the premises used for or in connection with the operation of a licensed business or occupation are provided for or required by ordinance, or are reasonably necessary to secure compliance with any ordinance provision or to detect violations thereof, it shall be the duty of the licensee, or the person in charge of the premises to be inspected, to admit thereto for the purpose of making the inspection any officer or employee of the city who is authorized or directed to make such inspection at any reasonable time that admission is requested.
(b)
Testing of material. Whenever an analysis of any commodity or material is reasonably necessary to secure conformance with any ordinance provision or to detect violations thereof, it shall be the duty of the licensee of the city whose business is governed by such provision to give to any authorized officer or employee of the city requesting the same sufficient samples of such material or commodity for such analysis.
(c)
Refusal to allow inspection. In addition to any other penalty which may be provided, the mayor may revoke the license of any licensed proprietor of a licensed business in the city who refuses to permit any officer or employee who is authorized to make such inspection or take such sample to make the inspection, or take an adequate sample of the said commodity, or who interferes with such officer or employee while in the performance of his duty in making such inspection; provided that no license shall be revoked for such cause unless written demand is made upon the licensee or person in charge of the premises, in the name of the city, stating that such inspection or sample is desired at the time it is sought to make the inspection or obtain the sample.
(Code 1979, § 32-104; Code 2003, § 110.04)
Sec. 10-5. - Termination and renewal of license.
(a)
All annual licenses shall terminate on the last day of the fiscal year of the city when no provision to the contrary is made.
(b)
Each licensee shall make a written application for renewal on forms supplied by the city clerk on or before November 15 of each calendar year, which application shall contain substantially the same information as the initial application and be accompanied by all required fees.
(c)
An applicant for renewal of a license shall be entitled to a refund of fees tendered if he withdraws his application for renewal prior to final action on the same by the city council.
(Code 1979, § 32-105; Code 2003, § 110.05)
Sec. 10-6. - Revocation, suspension and the like.
The city council, after affording the licensee notice of the charges and opportunity to be heard with respect to any revocation proceedings, may, if it finds this chapter to have been violated by the licensee, his agent or employee, revoke such license in its entirety, suspend the same for a specified period of time, place the licensee on probation or place other conditions thereon as the council may deem necessary.
(Code 1979, § 32-106; Code 2003, § 110.06)
Sec. 10-7. - Change of location.
In the absence of any provision to the contrary, the location of any licensed business or occupation may be changed, provided ten days' notice thereof is given to the city clerk, and provided that all building and zoning requirements are complied with.
(Code 1979, § 32-107; Code 2003, § 110.07)
Sec. 10-8. - Transfer of licenses.
All licenses shall be personal to the licensee to whom issued, but in cases where the ownership is changed and both the name and location of the licensed business or occupation are maintained, the mayor and city council may allow the license to be transferred.
(Code 1979, § 32-108; Code 2003, § 110.08)
Sec. 10-9. - Duplicate licenses.
A duplicate license shall be issued by the city clerk to replace a previously issued license which has been lost, stolen, defaced or destroyed without any willful conduct on the part of the licensee, upon the filing of a sworn affidavit attesting to such fact and the payment of a fee of $5.00 to the city clerk.
(Code 1979, § 32-109; Code 2003, § 110.09)
Sec. 10-10. - Branch offices.
For the purposes of this chapter, each branch establishment or location wherein a representative of the owner is employed and is authorized to transact business for such owner shall be deemed a separate place of business for which a separate license shall be required, provided that warehouses and distributing plants used in connection with and incidental to a business licensed under the provisions of this chapter shall not be deemed to be separate places of business or branch offices.
(Code 1979, § 32-110; Code 2003, § 110.10)
Sec. 10-11. - Joint license.
A person engaged in two or more businesses at the same location shall be required to obtain separate licenses for conducting each of such businesses for which a license is required.
(Code 1979, § 32-111; Code 2003, § 110.11)
Sec. 10-30. - Penalty.
Any person who shall conduct a business or occupation without having obtained a license therefor as required by this chapter or who shall violate any other provisions of this chapter shall, upon conviction therefor, be punished by a fine which shall be double the amount of their business license. Any and all penalties are to be imposed in the discretion of the judge of the recorder's court. Each warning or citation shall be considered a separate offense.
(Code 1979, § 32-112; Code 2003, § 110.99)
Secs. 10-31—10-48. - Reserved.
