ARTICLE III. - HORSE-DRAWN CARRIAGES FOR HIRE

Sec. 10-111. - Short title.
This article shall be known and recited as "The Horse-Drawn Carriages for Hire Ordinance."
(Code 2003, § 111.01; Ord. of 8-30-2000)
Sec. 10-112. - Definitions.
The following words, terms and phrases, when used in this article, shall have the meanings ascribed to them in this section, except where the context clearly indicates a different meaning:
Company means the holder of a license to operate a horse-drawn carriage business under the provisions of this article, whether a person, firm, partnership or corporation.
Draft animal means a horse, mule or other beast of burden used for the drawing of a horse-drawn carriage.
Draft animal's permit means the written document issued by the city identifying a draft animal drawing a horse-drawn carriage for a designated licensed company within the city.
Driver means any person who drives or operates a horse-drawn carriage on the streets of the city for a licensed company.
Driver's permit means the written document issued by the city identifying an individual driving or operating a horse-drawn carriage for a designated licensed company within the city.
Horse-drawn carriage means any hack or carriage which is operated by being drawn by a horse, mule or other beast of burden, for the transportation for hire of passengers.
Inspector (city clerk or his designee) means the individual employee or organizational unit of the city charged with the responsibility for enforcing this article, except for specific responsibilities otherwise provided herein.
License means the right and privilege granted by the city for the operation of a business incorporating the use of a single horse-drawn carriage within the corporate limits of the city; also, the document evidencing same.
Stand means a public place alongside the curb of a street, or elsewhere, which has been designated by the city for the use (exclusively or non-exclusively) of horse-drawn carriage.
Street means any street, alley, lane, avenue, court or public place in the city.
(Code 2003, § 111.02; Ord. of 8-30-2000)
Sec. 10-113. - Licensing of horse-drawn carriage companies; headquarters.
(a)
License required.
(1)
No person, firm, corporation or entity shall operate a business involving the use of a horse-drawn carriage on the streets of the city unless the current year's occupational tax has been paid in accordance with this Code and a license for such business has first been granted by the city pursuant to the provision contained herein. The license shall be effective for only a single carriage and only for the calendar year stated in the license, unless suspended or revoked sooner as provided by ordinance.
(2)
Any person, firm, corporation or legal entity desiring a license required by this section shall submit an application in writing to the city on a form to be furnished by the city clerk. The application shall be made under oath and shall contain, at a minimum, the following information:
a.
The legal name of the applicant;
b.
The trade name, if applicable, under which the applicant is to operate;
c.
All persons having a beneficial interest in the applicant greater than five percent;
d.
The mailing and physical address of applicant;
e.
The name and address of a contact person for all purposes under this article;
f.
The number required to be affixed to the carriage pursuant to this article;
g.
The passenger capacity of the vehicle; and
h.
A photograph of the carriage for which license is applied.
(b)
License fee. Before any license is granted under this section, an impact, enforcement and administrative fee for the licensed activity, in the amount as established by the mayor and council from time to time, shall be paid by the applicant.
(c)
License to be displayed in horse-drawn carriage. The license issued under the provisions of this section shall be placed on display in the horse-drawn carriage, where the license will be in clear view of the passengers at all times when the horse-drawn carriage is for hire.
(d)
Alteration of license prohibited. It shall be unlawful for any person willfully to alter, deface, obliterate or destroy a horse-drawn carriage license or cause or allow the same.
(e)
Multiple licenses allowable. It shall be permissible for any applicant to hold multiple licenses, and they shall be required to obtain multiple licenses to operate separate carriages.
(f)
License not transferable. Any horse-drawn carriage license issued under this section is not transferable, either from entity to entity, or from carriage to carriage, and is to be used solely by the applicant to whom issued and solely for the carriage identified upon the license.
(g)
Duration of permit. Any horse-drawn carriage license shall be valid for that calendar year. The license may be renewed, upon application and payment of the required fee.
(h)
Operating regulations. In addition to the license requirements imposed herein, each license holder shall be responsible for the following operating regulations:
(1)
Compliance with all laws cited as the "Humane Care for Equines Act," O.C.G.A. § 4-13-1 et seq., as well as all other state and federal laws and regulations governing equines and humane treatment of animals;
(2)
No one animal may be worked more than eight hours per day;
(3)
No draft animal shall be permitted to pull a horse-drawn carriage when the outside temperature exceeds 90 degrees Fahrenheit. The temperature reading shall be conclusively presumed to be that obtained at the communications desk of the city police department as adjunct to the National Weather Service;
(4)
At the time of permitting of any draft animal, and at any time, upon being demanded by the city inspector, a valid equine infectious anemia (EIA) certification for the draft animal then in service must be produced;
(5)
Each license holder shall require, and each driver must maintain, a log of the starting and ending times for each driver and each draft animal. The log should be kept in a bound book form and continuously available upon the carriage being pulled for inspection by the city inspector.
(i)
Inspections. The inspector shall be empowered to inspect all operating practices of any carriage company to ensure continuous compliance with this article.
(Code 2003, § 111.03; Ord. of 8-30-2000)
Sec. 10-114. - Insurance.
(a)
Indemnity for benefit of city. Any horse-drawn carriage company operating under this article shall hold the city, its officers, agents, servants and employees harmless against any and all liability, loss damages or expense which may accrue to the city by reason of negligence, default or misconduct of the company in connection with the rights granted to such company hereunder. Nothing in this article shall be considered to make the city, its officers, agents, servants or employees liable for damages because of any negligent act or omission or commission by any horse-drawn carriage company, its servants, agents, drivers or other employees during the operation by the company of a horse-drawn carriage business or service, either in respect to injury to persons or with respect to damage to property which may be sustained.
(b)
Insurance for benefit of passengers. Any horse-drawn carriage company holding a license to do business shall carry a policy of public liability insurance from an insurance company authorized to do business in the state for each vehicle in use as a horse-drawn carriage. The minimum coverage shall be $300,000.00 for bodily injury to any one person, $500,000.00 for injury to more than one person which are sustained in the same accident and $50,000.00 for property damage resulting from one accident. The liability insurance shall injure to the benefit of any person who shall be injured or who shall sustain damage to property caused by the negligence of a horse-drawn carriage company, its servants or agents.
(c)
Blanket policy. Any company or person operating a horse-drawn carriage in the city shall give a separate policy of indemnity insurance for each separate horse-drawn carriage for hire, except where such company or person actually owns or operates more than one horse-drawn carriage, in which event such company or person may give one policy of indemnity insurance covering all the horse-drawn carriages actually owned or operated.
(d)
Notice when voided. Before any policy of insurance required by this article is voided for any cause, nonpayment of premium or otherwise, notice thereof shall be given by the licensee in writing, to the city manager at least five days before the same shall take effect.
(Code 2003, § 111.04; Ord. of 8-30-2000)
Sec. 10-115. - Horse-drawn carriage driver permit required for identification.
(a)
Permits required.
(1)
No person shall operate a horse-drawn carriage for hire upon the streets of the city, and no person who holds a horse-drawn carriage license pursuant to this article, shall permit a horse-drawn carriage to be driven at any time for hire, unless the driver of the horse-drawn carriage shall:
a.
Have a current motor vehicle operator's license issued or approved by the state and such license is not under suspension or revocation; and
b.
Have obtained and shall have then in force a horse-drawn carriage driver's permit issued under the provisions of this section.
(2)
Any person desiring a permit required by this section shall submit an application in writing to the city clerk on a form to be furnished by the city clerk. The application shall be made under oath and shall contain, at a minimum, the following information:
a.
The age of the applicant;
b.
Date of birth;
c.
Address;
d.
The name and license number of the horse-drawn carriage company for whom the applicant shall operate; and
e.
A photocopy of the applicant's the state driver's license.
(b)
Driver's permit fee. Before any permit is granted under this section, an administrative fee for the driver's permit in the amount as established by the mayor and council from time to time
(c)
Permit to be displayed in horse-drawn carriage. The permit issued under the provisions of this section shall be placed on display in the horse-drawn carriage then being operated by the holder of the permit, where the permit will be in clear view of the passengers at all times when the horse-drawn carriage is for hire.
(d)
Alteration of permits prohibited. It shall be unlawful for any person willfully to alter, deface, obliterate or destroy a horse-drawn carriage driver's permit or cause or allow the same.
(e)
Multiple permits allowable. It shall be permissible for any person to hold multiple driver permits, and they shall be required to obtain multiple permits to operate separate carriages.
(f)
Permit nontransferable. Any horse-drawn carriage driver's permit issued under this section is not transferable, either from person to person, or from carriage to carriage, and is to be used solely by the person to whom it is issued and solely for the carriage identified upon the permit.
(g)
Duration of permit. Any horse-drawn carriage driver's permit shall be valid for that calendar year. Permits may be renewed upon application and payment of the required fee.
(Code 2003, § 111.05; Ord. of 8-30-2000)
Sec. 10-116. - Identification and marking.
Every horse-drawn carriage shall have a sign, clearly visible and readable, painted or affixed upon the rear of each vehicle. The sign shall contain the full name of the horse-drawn carriage company operating the vehicle. Additionally, the sign shall conform with all sign standards for the city and be permitted by the city in the same manner as all other signs.
(Code 2003, § 111.06; Ord. of 8-30-2000)
Sec. 10-117. - Numbers generally.
There shall be painted or affixed on each side and on the rear of each horse-drawn carriage a number of such uniform size and color as is, in the sole discretion of the city, appropriate for identification and applied to the carriage by the city designee. The number shall be a separate and distinct number from that on any other public vehicle in the city. The number shall be assigned to such horse-drawn carriage by the city clerk, or his designee, at the time of application for license and shall not be altered or changed without consent of the city clerk.
(Code 2003, § 111.07; Ord. of 8-30-2000)
Sec. 10-118. - City council hearing on revocation or suspension of license.
(a)
When, in the opinion of the mayor or city clerk, grounds for the suspension and/or revocation of a license pursuant to this article may exist, the licensee shall be served by the chief of police or other officer with written notice to appear at a show-cause hearing before the city council on a weekday not less than five days and no more than 30 days from the date of such service. The notice shall contain the grounds alleged. The hearing shall constitute a separate and distinct called meeting.
(b)
The standard of proof to be applied by the city council at the hearing in determining whether or not grounds exist for the suspension and/or revocation of a license is a preponderance of the evidence. As used in this section, the term "preponderance of the evidence" is defined as evidence upon the issues involved, which, while not enough to wholly free the mind from a reasonable doubt, is yet sufficient to incline a reasonable and impartial mind to one side of the issue rather than the other.
(Code 2003, § 111.08; Ord. of 8-30-2000)
Sec. 10-119. - Safe mechanical condition of horse-drawn carriage required.
Every horse-drawn carriage operated on the streets of the city shall be maintained in a safe mechanical condition with all safety equipment remaining intact and operative at all times when the horse-drawn carriage is in service.
(Code 2003, § 111.20; Ord. of 8-30-2000)
Sec. 10-120. - Cleanliness of horse-drawn carriage required.
Each vehicle operating under this article shall be kept neatly painted, in clean and sanitary condition, free of litter and debris and at all times suitable for public transportation of passengers.
(Code 2003, § 111.21; Ord. of 8-30-2000)
Sec. 10-121. - Vehicle inspections required.
Each horse-drawn carriage may be inspected by the inspector for compliance with the provisions this article and shall pass the inspection before the vehicle may be used as a horse-drawn carriage in the city. Each horse-drawn carriage involved in an accident shall be inspected by the inspector before it may be returned to service transporting passengers for hire. Inspections of the horse-drawn carriage may be done at any time by the inspector.
(Code 2003, § 111.22; Ord. of 8-30-2000)
Sec. 10-122. - Rates published; rate card required.
No license holder, driver or any other person associated with a horse-drawn carriage shall charge a greater sum for the use of the horse-drawn carriage than that which is published and advertised as the rates for such vehicle which shall be displayed in each vehicle. Rates shall be displayed conspicuously at each entrance to the carriage so as to be in clear view of all passengers. The specific location and size of the rate posting must be approved by the inspector.
(Code 2003, § 111.23; Ord. of 8-30-2000)
Sec. 10-123. - No horse-drawn carriage to be left unattended.
It is unlawful for any driver of any horse-drawn carriage to or for the license holder thereof to permit the vehicle to be left unattended at any time.
(Code 2003, § 111.24; Ord. of 8-30-2000)
Sec. 10-124. - Soliciting passengers prohibited.
It shall be unlawful for any person to overtly solicit passengers for hire.
(Code 2003, § 111.25; Ord. of 8-30-2000)
Sec. 10-125. - Restriction on number of passengers.
No horse-drawn carriage shall transport more persons at a single time than the seating capacity of his horse-drawn carriage, as identified in the license.
(Code 2003, § 111.26; Ord. of 8-30-2000)
Sec. 10-126. - Property left in horse-drawn carriage by passengers.
Any horse-drawn carriage driver or operator discovering in any horse-drawn carriage under his control personal property which was lost or left therein by a passenger of such horse-drawn carriage shall report the loss and deliver all the property to the police department within two hours after the discovery of the property.
(Code 2003, § 111.28; Ord. of 8-30-2000)
Sec. 10-127. - Safety equipment required.
(a)
Each horse-drawn carriage shall be equipped with electrically powered lights or lanterns and reflectors of not less than two inches in diameter or four square inches, if square or rectangular. The lights shall be in use when operating during the hours of darkness and when raining. The lights and reflectors shall be mounted so that they are visible from a distance of 500 feet. At a minimum, lights shall be located on all four side corners of the vehicle and at a height no less than two feet nor more than six feet above the road surface. At a minimum, there shall be a total of eight reflectors which shall be mounted one on the outside of each shaft, two on each side and two on the rear. A DOT-approved slow moving vehicle sign shall be attached upon the rear of the vehicle so as to be clearly visible from a rear approach.
(b)
Each horse-drawn carriage shall be equipped with a functional and operative friction braking system.
(Code 2003, § 111.29; Ord. of 8-30-2000)
Sec. 10-128. - Area of operation.
The city clerk shall set repetitive routes for horse-drawn carriages; however, such election shall not prohibit pick up and transport of prearranged passengers for hire who request transport deviating from established routes. The city clerk shall also designate the location of stands and the number of carriages which may be located at each stand at any one time.
(Code 2003, § 111.30; Ord. of 8-30-2000)
Sec. 10-129. - Sanitation requirements.
Draft animal manure and urine must immediately, and without any delay whatsoever, be treated with a chemical deodorizing solution, and manure must be removed immediately, and without any delay whatsoever, from the street by the license holder or some person immediately available on behalf of the license holder. Each carriage must be equipped with a suitable scoop shovel and airtight container for the temporary storage of removed manure. Horse diapers, designed, affixed and maintained to prevent excrement from being deposited on the street surface, must be used at all times upon draft animals. All manure must be disposed of properly.
(Code 2003, § 111.31; Ord. of 8-30-2000)
Sec. 10-130. - Traffic violations.
(a)
Horse-drawn carriages shall be prohibited from stopping in traffic or delaying any on-street traffic for the purposes of loading or unloading passengers or for any other purposes.
(b)
All vehicles subject to this article shall operate the vehicles in accordance with the traffic laws of the city as well as the state.
(c)
It shall be unlawful for any horse-drawn carriage to willfully impede the normal flow of traffic on any city street, alley or thoroughfare. All horse-drawn carriages are required to travel at the extreme right of the road surface when followed by any other vehicle.
(Code 2003, § 111.32; Ord. of 8-30-2000)
Sec. 10-131. - Penalty.
Any person violating the provision of this article shall be guilty of a misdemeanor, punishable as provided in section 1-20. In addition, violation of this article shall also be grounds for suspension or revocation of the license issued under this article. Every transport for hire in violation of this article shall be deemed a separate violation.
(Code 2003, § 111.99; Ord. of 8-30-2000)
Secs. 10-132—10-160. - Reserved.
