APPENDIX A - ZONING[1]

Footnotes:
--- (1) ---
Editor's note— Printed in this appendix are the city's zoning rules and regulations, as adopted by the city council on February 1, 1996. Amendments to the ordinance are indicated by parenthetical history notes following amended provisions. The absence of a history note indicates that the provision remains unchanged from the original ordinance. Obvious misspellings and punctuation errors have been corrected without notation. For stylistic purposes, a uniform system of headings, catchlines, capitalization, citation to state statutes, and expression of numbers in text has been used to conform to the Code of Ordinances. Additions made for clarity are indicated by brackets.
Cross reference— Any zoning ordinance saved from repeal, § 1-11(10); buildings and building regulations, ch. 18; environment, ch. 38; floods, ch. 46; historical preservation, ch. 54; planning, ch. 66; streets, sidewalks and other public places, ch. 74.
State Law reference— The Zoning Procedures Law, O.C.G.A. § 36-66-1 et seq.; conflicts of interest in zoning actions, O.C.G.A. § 36-67A-1 et seq.; effect of zoning laws on covenants running with the land, O.C.G.A. § 44-5-60; authority to adopt plans and exercise the power of zoning, Ga. Const. art. IX, § II, ¶ IV; authority for land use regulation, O.C.G.A. § 12-2-8.

Section 1. - Enactment, short title, jurisdiction, purpose.
1-1. Enactment Clause. The Mayor and Council of the City of Ashburn, pursuant to the authority granted by Ga. Const. IX, § II, ¶ IV, and O.C.G.A. § 36-66-1 et seq., hereby ordains and enacts into law the following sections.
1-2. Long Title. An ordinance regulating within certain portions of the City of Ashburn the location; height, bulk; number of stories and size of buildings and other structures; the sizes of yards, courts, and other open spaces; the density and distribution of population; and the uses of buildings, structures, and the land for trade, industry, residence, recreation, agriculture, forestry, conservation, sanitation, protection against floods, public activities, and other purposes, creating districts for said purposes and establishing the boundaries thereof; defining certain terms used herein; providing for the methods of administration and amendment; defining the powers and duties of the board of appeals; providing penalties for violations; repealing conflicting ordinances; and for other purposes; all in accordance with the City of Ashburn's adopted comprehensive plan.
1-3. Short Title. These regulations shall be known and may be cited as the "Zoning Ordinance for the City of Ashburn, Georgia."
1-4. Jurisdiction. These regulations shall govern the use of all land and the developments thereof within the corporate limits of the City of Ashburn, Georgia.
1-5. Purpose. The purpose of these regulations shall be to promote the proper location, height, bulk, number of stories and size of open spaces, the density and distribution of population, and the uses of building, structures, and land for trade, industry, residence, recreation, agriculture, forestry, conservation, sanitation, protection against floods, public activities, and other purposes in accordance with the comprehensive plan for the City of Ashburn so as to lessen congestion in the streets; to secure safety from fire, panic, and other dangers; to promote the public health and the general welfare; to provide adequate light and air; to prevent the overcrowding of land; to avoid undue concentration of population, to prevent urban sprawl; to facilitate the adequate provision of transportation, water, sewerage, schools, parks, and other public requirements; to promote desirable living conditions and the sustained stability of neighborhoods; to protect property against blight and depreciation; to secure economy in governmental expenditures; to conserve the value of buildings and to encourage the most appropriate use of land, buildings, and structures throughout the City of Ashburn; and for other purposes; all in accordance with the City of Ashburn's adopted comprehensive plan.
Section 2. - Definitions.
For the purposes of these regulations, certain terms or words used herein shall be defined as follows:
2-1. Interpretation of Certain Terms and Words. Words used in the present tense include the future tense. Words used in the singular include the plural, and words used in the plural include the singular.
The word "person" includes a firm, partnership, company, corporation or association.
The word "lot" includes the word "plot" or "parcel."
The word "building" includes the word "structure."
The word "shall" is always mandatory, and not merely directory.
The word "used" or "occupied" as applied to any land or building shall be construed to include the words "intended, arranged, or designed to be used or occupied."
2-2. Accessory Building. A detached, subordinate structure, the use of which is clearly incidental to, customarily associated with, and related to the principal structure or use of the land; and which is located on the same lot as the principal structure or use, including residential swimming pools.
2-3. Administrator, Zoning. The person, officer, or official and his authorized representative, whom the city council has designated as its agent for the administration of these regulations. (See section 11-1.)
2-3A. Adult Entertainment. Performances by topless and/or bottomless dancers, strippers or similar entertainers, where such performances are characterized by the display or exposure of specific anatomical areas.
2-3B. Adult Entertainment Establishment. Any commercial establishment, which has as its primary purposes or business the offer for sale of any book, publication, or film which depicts nudity, or sexual conduct or engages in services such as bathhouses, massage parlors, wrestling parlors or like activity, including a nightclub, restaurant, cabaret, lounge or other establishment which features adult entertainment.
2-3C. Alternative tower structure. Clock towers, bell towers, church steeples, light/power poles, electric transmission towers, manmade trees (without accessory buildings/structures), and similar natural or manmade alternative-design mounting structures that camouflage or conceal the presence of antennas or towers.
2-4. Bed and Breakfast. A homeowner occupied dwelling in which lodging and meal(s) are furnished for compensation for three or more, but not exceeding, eight guests. Such dwelling shall contain no more than four guest rooms. In R-20 and R-12 zoning districts, use is restricted to the City of Ashburn's locally recognized historic district(s).
2-5. Buffer Area; Buffer Strip. A landscaped open area and/or screened area designed to separate incompatible uses.
2-6. Building. Any structure, except a mobile home or trailer, which has a roof and which is for the shelter, support or enclosure of persons, animals, or property of any kind.
2-7. Building Height. The vertical distance of a building measured from the average elevation of the finished lot grade along the front of the building to the highest point of the building.
2-7A. Church. A building in which persons regularly assemble for religious worship intended primarily for purposes connected with such worship, or for propagating a particular form of religious belief.
2-8. Club or Lodge, Private. An incorporated or unincorporated association for civic, social, cultural, religious, fraternal, literary, political, recreational, or like activities, operated for the benefit of its members and not open to the general public.
2-9. Care Home. An orphanage, rest home, nursing home, convalescent home, boardinghome for the aged, or similar use established to render domiciliary care, but not including facilities for the care of mental patients, alcoholics, drug addicts and not including nursery schools.
2-9A. Collation. The use of a wireless telecommunications facility by more than one wireless telecommunications provider.
2-10. Condominium. A building containing three or more individually owned dwelling units and related, jointly owned, common areas as defined by the laws of the State of Georgia.
2-11. Curb Cut. The providing of ingress and/or egress between property and an abutting public street.
2-12. Density. The overall intensity of land use for the total project. When referring to residential areas, density is defined as the number of housing units permitted per acre in the respective zoning district involved in accordance with the terms of this zoning ordinance or as authorized under the development standards of this ordinance.
2-13. Dwelling, Single-Family. A detached building used and either designed or constructed for one dwelling unit.
2-14. Dwelling, Single-Family Attached. One of a series of two or more single-family dwelling units built on separate lots attached to another dwelling unit on an adjoining lot by a common party wall.
2-15. Dwelling, Manufactured Home. A manufactured home is a detached structure transportable in one or more sections, which is built on a permanent chassis and is designed to be used as a dwelling unit with or without a permanent foundation when connected to the required utilities and includes the plumbing, heating, air conditioning and electrical systems contained therein. For the purposes of the administration of this ordinance, the term manufactured home shall be interpreted to include mobile homes.
2-15A. Manufactured Housing Park. An area, under single ownership and not subdivided into customary lots planned for individual ownership, containing three or more manufactured homes used as living facilities having a defined space, or an area containing three or more spaces designed or intended for parking of manufactured homes to be used as living facilities for rent or lease.
2-16. Dwelling, Two-Family or Duplex. A building either designed, constructed, altered, or used for two adjoining dwelling units that are connected by a fire rated common wall and/or if two stories in height by a fire rated common floor.
2-16A. Dwelling, Three-Family or Triplex. A building either designed, constructed, altered or used for three adjoining dwelling units that are connected by a five rated common wall or walls, or if more than one story in height, by a fire rated floor or floors.
2-17. Dwelling, Multifamily. A building either designed, constructed, altered, or used for more than three adjoining dwelling units, with each dwelling unit having a party wall or party floor connecting it to at least one other dwelling unit in the building. This includes apartments, condominiums, or any other type of multifamily structure.
2-18. Dwelling Unit. An enclosure of one or more rooms, including kitchen, and bathroom facilities, designed or constructed as a unit for residential occupancy by one family.
2-19. Family. One or more persons occupying a premises and living as a single housekeeping unit, as distinguished from a group occupying a boardinghouse, lodging house, hotel, or fraternity or sorority house.
2-20. Floor Area, Gross. The total number of square feet of floor area in a building determined by horizontal measurements between the exterior faces of walls, excluding basement areas, attic, porches, carports, and garages.
2-20A. Height. When referring to a tower or other structure, means the distance measured from ground level to the highest point on the tower structure or appurtenance.
2-21. Home Occupation. An occupation for gain or support customarily conducted on the premises by a person or family residing therein. Home occupations are governed by the requirements of section 9-1. Home occupations are permitted uses as a matter of right in certain districts pursuant to the schedules of use under section 5-1.1 and are permitted in all other districts only after special review and approval by the board of appeals as special exceptions pursuant to section 12-6.2.
2-22. Hospital. Any institution receiving in-patients, or a public institution receiving out-patients, and authorized under Georgia law to render medical, surgical, and/or obstetrical care. The term "hospital" shall include a sanitarium for the treatment and care of senile psychotics or drug addicts, but shall not include office facilities for the private practice of medicine or dentistry.
2-22A. Industrialized Building. A term used only in Georgia, "industrialized building" describes certain manufactured buildings which are regulated by the Georgia Department of Community Affairs. Georgia law defines an industrialized building as "any structure or component thereof which is wholly or in substantial part made, fabricated, formed, or assembled in manufacturing facilities for installation or assembly on a building site and has been manufactured in such a manner that all parts or processes cannot be inspected at the installation site without disassembly, damage to, or destruction thereof." Industrialized buildings are constructed and regulated in accordance with the "Industrialized Buildings Act," O.C.G.A. § 8-2-110 et seq. An industrialized building must meet all requirements of the district in which it is located. Industrialized buildings designed for residential uses are often referred to as "modular homes."
2-23. Junkyard. Use of property for outdoor storage, keeping, abandonment, sale, or resale of junk including scrap metal, rags, paper or other scrap materials, used lumber, salvaged house wrecking, and structural steel materials and equipment, or for the dismantling, demolition, or abandonment of automobiles or other vehicles or machinery or parts thereof.
2-23.1. Storage area. Property and/or buildings used for the permanent or temporary storage of inoperable vehicles, machinery or other equipment or materials awaiting salvage, restoration, or sale, but not including exterior displays of new or used merchandise in operable condition for retail or wholesale distribution.
2-24. Kennels. The housing of four or more dogs.
2-24A. Lattice tower. A support structure constructed of vertical metal struts and cross braces forming a triangular or square structure which often tapers from the foundation to the top.
2-24B. Licensed Day Care Center. A day care center licensed by the State of Georgia and/or City of Ashburn that provides care, training, education, custody, treatment or supervision for children under 14 years of age, where such children are not related by blood, marriage or adoption to an owner or operator of the facility.
2-25. Lot. A lot of record, held in a single ownership by one person, or in common ownership by more than one, which has both lot area and lot dimensions equal to or greater than the lot width and lot area requirements established by this ordinance for the zoning district in which such tract of land is located and for the use proposed for the tract of land. (See section 3-21.)
2-26. Lot, Corner. A lot having frontage on two or more public streets at their intersection. (See section 3-11.)
2-27. Lot of Record. A lot which is part of a subdivision recorded in the office of the clerk of the superior court of Turner County, or a parcel described by metes and bounds, the description of which has been so recorded prior to the adoption of this ordinance. (See section 3-21.)
2-28. Lot, Through. A lot other than a corner lot, having frontage on more than one street; or a corner lot having frontage on three or more streets.
2-29. Lot Width. The distance between the side lot lines, measured along the front yard setback line as established by this ordinance, or if no setback line is established, the horizontal distance between the side lot lines measured along the street right-of-way line.
2-29A. Modular home. See "Industrialized Building."
2-29B. Monopole. A support structure constructed of a single, self-supporting hollow metal tube securely anchored to a foundation.
2-29C. Motel. A commercial building or group of buildings containing guest rooms and having separate outside entrances for each guest room. Designed to be used primarily by the motoring public and includes such terms as "auto court" and "motor lodge," but not bed and breakfast.
2-29D. Newspaper or Periodical Production, Sales, and Distribution. The operation of newspaper or periodical business including the production, sales, and distribution thereof, including all necessary presswork. Such term includes but is broader than newspaper or periodical publishing.
2-29E. Newspaper or Periodical Publishing. This term is narrower in scope than newspaper or periodical production, sales and distribution. The term does not include presswork, sales or distribution and is limited to the composition, layout and non-presswork printing of a newspaper or periodical.
2-29F. Nightclub (Lounge). A place of entertainment open at night, usually serving food and alcoholic beverages providing music and space for dancing.
2-30. Nursery School. An agency, organization, or individual providing daytime care of six or more children not related by blood or marriage or not the legal wards or foster children of the attendant adult.
2-31. Open Space.
2-31.1 That required portion of a lot at ground level, unoccupied by enclosed buildings and available to all occupants of the project. This space shall not be devoted to driveways or off-street parking but shall be usable for green space, recreational use and other leisure activities normally carried on outdoors.
2-31.2 Land devoted to conservation or recreational purposes and/or land designated by a municipality to remain undeveloped (may be specified on a zoning map).
2-31A. Personal Care Home. A building or group of buildings, a facility or place in which is provided two or more beds and other facilities and services, including room, meals and personal care for non-family ambulatory adults for compensation.
2-31A.1. Family personal care home means a home for adults in a family-type residence, noninstitutional in character, which offers care to two through six persons.
2-31A.2. Group personal care home means a home for adult persons in a residence or other type building(s), noninstitutional in character, which offers care to seven through 15 persons.
2-31A.3. Congregate personal care home means a home for adults which offers care to 16 or more persons.
2-32. Planning Commission. As utilized in this ordinance, the planning commission shall mean the Ashburn Planning Commission as duly appointed by the Ashburn City Council.
2-32.A Pre-existing towers and antennas. Means structures as set forth in subsection 16-2.
2-33. Principal Building. The building containing or to contain the principal use of a lot.
2-34. Principal Use. The principal purpose for which a lot or the main building thereon is designed, arranged, or intended, and for which it is or may be used, occupied, or maintained.
2-35. Public Street. Right-of-way dedicated to the city, county, state or federal government or owned by the city, county, state or federal government for public street purposes.
2-35A. Radio and Television Stations. Facilities for the on-site origination, transmission and broadcast of television and/or radio signals of an operator licensed by the Federal Communications Commission to originate, transmit, and broadcast programming using television signals and/or radio signals on either an FM band frequency in the range between 88 and 108 megahertz or an AM band frequency in the range between 535 and 1705 kilohertz.
2-35B. Radio and Television Studios. Facilities at one site for only the origination and transmission to another site for broadcast (specifically excluding at said site the ability to broadcast) of any operator licensed by the Federal Communications Commission to originate, transmit and broadcast programming using television signals and/or radio signals on either an FM band frequency in the range between 88 and 108 megahertz or on [an] AM band frequency in the range between 535 and 1705 kilohertz.
2-35C. Residential. Pertaining to the use of land, means premises such as homes, townhomes, patio homes, manufactured homes, duplexes, condominiums, apartment complexes or single room rental units, which contain habitable rooms for nontransient occupancy and which are designed primarily for living, sleeping, cooking and eating therein.
2-35D. Scenic views. Means those geographic areas containing visually significant or unique natural features, as identified in the county comprehensive plan.
2-35E. School. A facility where persons regularly assemble for the purpose of instruction or education including any playgrounds, stadiums, or other structures and grounds used in conjunction therewith. This shall include but not be limited to public and private schools used for primary, secondary or post-secondary education.
2-36. Setback. The shortest distance between the centerline of a street and the principal building or structure on a lot.
2-37. Shopping Center. Two or more commercial establishments planned and managed as a single unit with off-street parking and loading facilities provided on the property.
2-38. Sign. Any surface, fabric, or device bearing lettered, pictorial or sculptured matter designed to convey information visually and exposed to public view; or any structure (including billboard or poster panel) designed to carry the above visual information.
2-38.1. Advertising separate use sign. A sign which directs attention to a business, commodity, service or entertainment conducted, sold or offered only elsewhere than upon the premises where the sign is displayed.
2-38.2. Advertising incidental use sign. A sign which directs attention to a business, commodity, service or entertainment conducted, sold, or offered as a minor and incidental activity upon the premises where the sign is displayed.
2-38.3. Bulletin board. A sign used to announce meetings or programs to be held on the premises of a church, community recreation center, school, auditorium, library, museum, or similar non-commercial places of public assembly.
2-38.4. Identification sign. A sign used to identify only the name of the individual, family, organization or enterprise occupying the premises.
2-38.5. Point of business sign. A sign which directs attention to a business, profession or industry located upon the premises where the sign is displayed, to type of products sold, manufactured or assembled, and/or to service or entertainment offered on said premises, but not a sign pertaining to the preceding if such activity is only minor and incidental to the principal use of the premises.
2-38.6. Portable display sign. A sign not permanently affixed to the ground or any sign which is mounted on a portable wooden or metal trailer-type frame or any other such sign intended by either the sign owner or property owner to be a temporary sign.
2-39. Special Exception. A special exception is a use which within certain districts specified by this ordinance is not permitted as a matter of right but may be permitted within these districts by the board of appeals after said board has:
(1)
Reviewed the proposed site plans for the use, its location within the city, its arrangement and design, its relationship to neighboring property and other conditions peculiar to the particular proposal which would determine its desirability or undesirability;
(2)
Has found the proposal not to be contrary to the intent of this ordinance; and
(3)
Has approved the use as specified.
(See sections 5 and 12-6.2.)
2-40. Structure. Anything constructed or erected with a fixed location on or in the ground, or attached to something having a fixed location on the ground. Among other things, structures include buildings, mobile homes, billboards, swimming pools and fallout shelters but does not include walls or fences.
2-41. Telecommunication. The technology which enables information to be exchanged through the transmission of voice, video, or data signals by means of electrical or electromagnetic systems.
2-42. Trailer, Travel Type. A vehicular portable structure designed as a temporary dwelling for travel, recreation, and vacation uses, which is identified on the unit by the manufacturer as a "camper" or "travel" trailer.
2-43. Variance. A variance is a relaxation of the terms of the zoning ordinance that will not be contrary to the public interest and where, owing to conditions peculiar to the property and not the result of the intentional actions of the applicant, a literal enforcement of the regulations would result in unnecessary and undue hardship. (See section 12-6.3.)
2-43A. Visual quality. Means the appropriate design, arrangement and location of tower structures in relation to the built or natural environment to avoid abrupt or severe differences.
2-43B. Wireless telecommunications antenna. The physical device through which electromagnetic, wireless telecommunications signals authorized by the Federal Communications Commission a retransmitted or received. Antennas used by amateur radio operators are excluded from this definition.
2-43C. Wireless telecommunications equipment shelter. The structure in which the electronic receiving and relay equipment for a wireless telecommunications facility is housed.
2-43D. Wireless telecommunications facility. A facility consisting of the equipment and structures involved in receiving telecommunications or radio signals from a mobile radio communications source and transmitting those signals to a central switching computer which connects the mobile unit with the land-based telephone lines.
2-43E. Wireless telecommunications tower. A structure intended to support equipment used to transmit and/or receive telecommunications signals including monopoles, guyed and lattice construction steel structures. This term includes radio and television transmission towers, microwave towers, common-carrier towers, cellular telecommunication towers, manmade trees (with accessory buildings/structures) and other similar structures.
2-44. Yard, Front. That area of a lot lying between the abutting street right-of-way line and the principal building of the lot and extending across the front of a lot from side lot line to side lot line. (See illustration following this section.)
2-45. Yard, Rear. That area of a lot extending across the rear of a lot from side lot line to side lot line and lying between the rear lot line and the principal building on the lot. (See illustration following this section.)
2-46. Yard, Side. That area of a lot between the side lot line and the principal building on the lot extending from the front yard to the rear yard. (See illustration following this section.)
(Ord. No. 2018-12, § 1(Exh. A, § A), 12-6-2018)
Section 3. - General provisions.
3-1. Interpretation and Application. In interpreting and applying these regulations, the requirements contained herein are declared to be the minimum requirements necessary to carry out the purpose of these regulations. Except as hereinafter provided, these regulations shall not be deemed to interfere with, abrogate, annul or otherwise affect in any manner whatsoever any easements, covenants, or otherwise agreements between parties. Whenever the provisions of these regulations impose greater restrictions upon the use of land or buildings, or upon the height of buildings, or require a larger percentage of a lot to be left unoccupied than the provisions of other ordinances, rules, regulations or permits, or any easements, covenants or other agreements between parties, then the provisions of these regulations shall govern.
3-2. Zoning Affects All Land and Buildings. No buildings, structures, or land shall be used or occupied; and no building, structure, or part thereof shall be erected, constructed, reconstructed, moved, enlarged or structurally altered unless in conformity with the regulations of this ordinance.
3-3. Every Use Must Be Upon a Lot. No building or structure may be erected or use established unless upon a lot as defined by this ordinance except as provided in section 3-21 or section 9-2.
3-4. Only One Principal Building per Lot. Except as herein provided (see section 9-2 and section 9-3), there shall be no more than one principal building or structure upon any lot in any residential district.
3-5. Open Space Not To Be Encroached Upon. No open space shall be encroached upon or reduced in any manner except in conformity to the yard, setback, off-street parking space requirements, and such other regulations required by this ordinance for the district in which such building is located. Shrubbery, driveways, retaining walls, fences, curbs, and planted buffer strips shall be interpreted not to be encroachments of yards. (See section 3-24.)
3-6. Required Open Space May Not Be Used by Another Building. No part of any yard, other open space, or off-street parking or loading space required in connection with any building, structure, or use by this ordinance shall be considered to be part of a required yard, or other open space, or off-street parking or loading space for any other building, structure, or use except as provided in section 7-6.
3-7. Reduction of Yards or Lot Area. Except as provided in section 3-22, no lot existing at the time of passage of this ordinance shall be reduced, divided, or changed so as to produce a tract of land which does not comply with the minimum dimension or area requirements of this ordinance for the district in which it is located unless said reduction or division is necessary to provide land that is needed and accepted for public use.
3-8. Encroachment on Public Rights-of-Way. No building, structure, service area, or required off-street parking and loading facility, except driveways, shall be permitted to encroach on public rights-of-way.
3-9. Location of Accessory Buildings or Uses. Accessory buildings on residential lots, when located within a front or side yard, shall be located no closer to property lines than would be allowed for a principal building. Within a rear yard, an accessory building on a residential lot shall be located at least five feet from all rear property lines and eight feet from all other property lines; except that in the case of corner lots, accessory buildings shall be set back from the centerline of an abutting street right-of-way a distance equal to three-fourths the front yard setback established for the zoning district in which the accessory buildings are located. In the case of a through lot (see section 3-11) accessory buildings shall conform to front yard setbacks on both streets. Accessory buildings or uses on nonresidential lots shall comply with front, side, and rear yard requirements established for the zoning district in which such buildings or uses are located.
3-9.1. Accessory building on separate lot. An accessory building may be permitted, as a special exception by the zoning board of appeals, on a separate lot from the lot of the principal building provided that:
(a)
The lot upon which the accessory building is to be located shall be within 400 feet of the principal use; and
(b)
All requirements, including use restrictions, established for the zoning district in which such accessory building is to be located shall be complied with; and
(c)
Any structure or building erected shall meet the requirements of the Ashburn Building Code and shall be approved by the building inspector.
In addition to the above requirements, the board of appeals may require design features such as buffer strips, screening, etc., as may be found necessary to protect the purposes of this ordinance.
3-9.2. Swimming pools. Swimming pools accessory to residences or commercial uses shall be enclosed by a steel mesh security fence or other substantial building material affording equal or better access control. Said fence shall have a minimum height of four feet. This standard shall apply to all pools with a capacity in excess of 500 gallons.
3-9.3. Separation from principal use. Any accessory building of more than eight feet in height shall be located at least ten feet from the principal building.
3-10. Every Lot Shall Abut a Street. No building shall be erected on a lot which does not abut an open public street.
3-11. Lots With Multiple Frontage. In the case of a corner lot, side yard setback requirements from the centerline of the street right-of-way shall equal to 75 percent of that required for the front yard setback for the respective zoning district. On a corner lot where the main entrance into a residence is facing a side yard, it shall be permissible for purposes of this ordinance to interpret the residence to be fronting on the street other than that street which said entrance faces, and side and rear yard requirements may be provided accordingly. If a building is constructed on a through lot having frontage on two or more roads not at an intersection, a setback from each road shall be provided equal to the front yard requirement for the district in which the lot is located.
3-12. Visibility at Intersections. On corner lots within all zoning districts, except the C-D zoning district, no fence, shrubbery or other obstruction to the traffic sight vision, except utility poles or light or sign standards, shall exceed a height of three feet within a triangular area formed by the intersection of the right-of-way lines of two streets or a street intersection with a railroad right-of-way line, and a diagonal line which intersects the right-of-way lines at two points, each 20-foot distance from the intersection of the right-of-way lines, or, in the case of a rounded corner, from the point of intersection of their tangents; provided, however, signs, lights, or similar objects which are totally located at least 12 feet above the finished grade shall be permitted. (See illustration following this subsection.)
3-13. Uses Prohibited. If either a use or class of use is not specifically indicated as being permitted in a district, either as a matter of right, or as a special exception, then such use, class of use, or structures for such uses, shall be prohibited in such district.
3-14. Fallout and/or Storm Shelters. Fallout and/or storm shelters are permitted as principal or accessory uses in any district, subject to the yard requirements of the district. Shelters shall be maintained so as not to become a hazard or blight to the community.
The board of appeals may permit, as a special exception, construction of joint shelters by two or more property owners. Where such joint shelters are permitted, the board may waive the side and rear yard setback requirements on the property or properties directly involved in order to permit practical and efficient location and construction; provided, however, that side and rear yard requirements shall be met where property involved in a joint proposal abuts or adjoins property not included in the proposal.
3-15. Zoning To Apply When Lot Is Divided by District Boundary Line. In the event that a district boundary line on the zoning map divides a lot of record held in one ownership on the date of passage of this ordinance, each part of the lot so divided shall be used in conformity with the regulations established by this ordinance for the district in which such parcel is located; except, however, that if the property owner of such a lot so desires, he may extend a use allowed on either portion of said lot 50 feet beyond the district boundary line in accordance with setbacks and yard requirements of the district into which he is encroaching.
3-16. Height Limitations of Walls and Fences. Within any residential district, no wall or fence shall exceed eight feet in height within or along a boundary of a rear or side yard. Within the front yard, all fences or walls shall have a height limit of four feet.
3-17. Required Buffers in NC, G-C, D-C, WLI, and HI Districts. In an NC, GC, DC, WLI, and HI zoning district, where a lot abuts any residential district, a six-foot-wide buffer the entire length of the lot abutting the residential property shall be provided with screening as specified in section 3-19. Off-street parking associated with such uses shall be governed by this same provision.
3-18. Screening of Service Areas Within 150 Feet of Public Street. Any service area, loading area, refuse, or storage area between a principal building and a public street being visible from said street and lying within 150 feet of said street shall be screened from view from the public street as specified in section 3-19.
3-19. Screening Required. Wherever screening is required by this ordinance, a durable masonry wall, or fence and hedge of sufficient opacity to provide a visual blind, designed to be compatible with the character of adjoining properties, shall be provided. Such fences and walls shall be at least six feet in height, but no greater than eight feet in height, measured from the ground along the common lot line of the adjoining properties. Hedges or comparable natural plantings shall be of such variety that an average height of at least six feet could be expected by normal growth within no later than three years from the time of planting. At the time of application for building permit, the applicant shall post a performance bond sufficient to cover the installation of the required screening. If installed within one year from the date of application for the building permit, the bond shall be returned. However, if the required screening is not completed within the required time period, the bond is forfeited and the required screening shall be installed by the city. In lieu of posting a performance bond to cover screening costs, the owner/developer may install the screening prior to issuance of the certificate of occupancy. Under this option, occupancy will not be allowed until the screening is completed as a part of the normal development plan.
3-20. Side and Rear Yards Not Required Next to Railroad. Within any nonresidential district, side yards and rear yards shall not be required adjacent to railroad rights-of-way.
3-21. Substandard Lots of Record. Any lot of record existing at the time of the adoption of this ordinance which has an area or a width which is less than that required by this ordinance may be used as a building site for a structure or use permitted in that zone; provided, however, that the same yard, setback, open space, and other dimensional requirements are met that would be required for a standard lot, except as stipulated in section 3-25.
3-22. Permitted Modification of Setback Requirement. When a building is proposed on a lot and when on either or both lots which adjoin such lot at the street right-of-way line there exists a principal building which does not conform to the setback requirements of this ordinance, the required setback for such building shall be as follows:
(1)
Where only one said adjoining lot contains a principal building with a nonconforming setback the setback shall be the computed average of:
(a)
The normal setback requirement with;
(b)
The nonconforming setback; or
(2)
Where both adjoining lots contain a principal building each with a nonconforming setback, the minimum setback shall be the computed average of the two nonconforming setbacks.
3-23. Structures Permitted Above the Height Limit. The height limits of these regulations shall not apply to a church spire, belfry, cupola, dome, or ornamental tower not intended for human occupancy, monument, water tower, observation tower, transmission tower, chimney, smoke stack, conveyor, flag pole, radio or television tower, mast or aerial, parapet wall not extending more than four feet above the roof line of the building, and necessary mechanical appurtenances.
3-24. Permitted Encroachments of Yards and Setbacks. Architectural features such as cornices, eaves, steps, gutters and fire escapes may project not more than three feet beyond any required setback line, except where such projections would obstruct driveways which are or may be used for access for service and/or emergency vehicles; provided, however, that in the case of automobile service stations, motels and similar uses which serve the motoring public, canopies shall be allowed over a driveway or walkways within the front yard not to extend from the principal building to a point any closer than 15 feet from the street right-of-way line.
3-25. Modification of Side Yard Requirements. When a lot of record has a width less than the frontage required in the district in which it is located, then the zoning administrator shall be authorized to reduce the side yard requirements for such lot; provided, however, that there shall not be less than an eight-foot side yard.
3-26. Historic District Regulation Compliance. Pursuant to Georgia law, the City of Ashburn has adopted certain design development regulations to protect specific historic resources in the city. In addition to general zoning standards, all requirements of the City of Ashburn Historic District Ordinance, as amended, shall be complied with as a part of the normal permitting process.
3-27. Zoning of Annexed Area. Areas annexed to the City of Ashburn subsequent to the adoption of this ordinance shall be subject to this ordinance as is all land area currently located in the corporate limits of the city. It is required that the annexation petition be accompanied by the petitioner's request for rezoning, and consideration of such property for initial City of Ashburn zoning designation shall be subject to the normal amendatory requirements of this ordinance, including the normal public hearing requirements. (See section 13-2.4.)
3.28. Residential Industrial Buildings.
a.
Definitions. As used herein, the term "residential industrial building" shall have the meaning as set forth in O.C.G.A. § 8-2-111 and any amendment thereto, as follows: any dwelling unit designed and constructed in compliance with the Georgia State Minimum Standard One and Two Family Dwelling Code which is wholly or in substantial part made, fabricated, formed, or assembled in a manufacturing facility and cannot be inspected at the installation site without disassembly, damage to, or destruction thereof. Any such structure shall not contain a permanent metal chassis and shall be affixed to a permanent load-bearing foundation. The term shall not include manufactured homes as defined by the National Manufactured Housing Construction and Safety Standards Act of 1974, 42 U.S.C. Section 5401, et seq. All other terms contained herein shall have the definition contained within O.C.G.A. § 8-2-111, to the extent defined therein.
b.
Applicability. To the extent required by O.C.G.A. § 8-2-112, and notwithstanding any other provision contained within this zoning ordinance, residential industrial buildings shall not be excluded from any residential district solely because the building is a residential industrialized building or otherwise meets the definition contained herein.
(Ord. No. 15-09, § 1, 9-3-2015)
Section 4. - Zoning districts.
4-1. Establishment of Districts. In order that the purposes of this ordinance as defined in section 1 may be accomplished, there are hereby established within the City of Ashburn zoning districts identified as follows:
4-1.1. R-20 single-family residential district. The purpose of this district is to provide single-family residential areas with minimum lot sizes of 20,000 square feet, said areas being protected from the depreciating effects of small lot development and excessive density and from the encroachment of uses which are incompatible to a desirable residential environment.
4-1.2. R-12 single-family residential district. The purpose of this district is to provide single-family residential areas with minimum lot sizes of 12,000 square feet, said areas being protected from the depreciating effects of small lot development and excessive density and from the encroachment of those uses which are incompatible to a desirable residential environment.
4-1.3. R-8 residential district. The purpose of this district is to provide residential areas with a minimum lot size of 8,000 square feet, said areas being protected from uses which are incompatible to a desirable residential environment.
4-1.3A. R-8-M residential district. The purpose of this district is to create an area, that in addition to conventional housing, allows manufactured housing as a matter of right in a conventional subdivision. Lots in this district must have a minimum of 8,000 square feet. These districts shall be protected from the encroachment of incompatible uses which are detrimental to a sound residential environment.
4-1.4. M-R multiple residential district. The purpose of this district is to provide orderly development of higher density residential areas for one-, two- and multi-family dwellings, with minimum lot sizes of 6,000 square feet, said areas being protected from the encroachment of those uses which are incompatible to a desirable residential environment.
4-1.5. R-P residential professional district. The purpose of this district shall be to create an area in which residential, limited business, professional, educational, and institutional uses can be compatibly mixed while maintaining a healthful living environment for the residents of the district and at the same time preventing the development of blight and slum conditions. The minimum lot size in this district shall be 6,000 square feet.
4-1.6. MHP manufactured housing park district. The purpose of this district is to provide for the development of property that is suitably located and planned for manufactured housing park use. Property developed in this district is to remain in single ownership for rental or leasing purposes only. Manufactured housing parks shall be developed only in strict accordance with the manufacturing housing park provisions of this ordinance.
4-1.7. N-C neighborhood commercial district. The purpose of this district shall be to provide and protect convenient areas for neighborhood shopping facilities consisting of a wide variety of sales and service.
4-1.8. G-C general commercial district. The purpose of this district shall be to provide for and encourage the proper grouping and development of uses which include a wide variety of sales and services that will best accommodate the needs of the city and the traveling public in order to reduce highway traffic congestion, traffic hazards, and blight along the public streets of the city.
4-1.9. D-C downtown commercial district. The purpose of this district shall be to provide a higher density commercial development which will include a wide variety of sales which should locate in the central business district.
4-1.10. C-A adult commercial district. The purpose of this district shall be to provide a reasonable location within the community for the development of adult-oriented businesses including adult entertainment establishments.
4-1.11. WLI wholesale-light industrial district. The purpose of this district shall be to provide and protect areas for those wholesale and light industrial uses which do not create excessive noise, odor, smoke, dust, and which do not possess other objectionable characteristics which might be detrimental to surrounding neighborhoods, or to the other uses permitted in the district.
4-1.12. H-I heavy industrial district. The purpose of this district shall be to provide and protect areas for those industrial uses which cannot comply with the regulations of the WLI district.
4-2. Zoning Map and Major Thoroughfare Plan.
The boundaries of each district are shown on a map entitled "Official Zoning Map of Ashburn, Georgia." The classification of streets (local and collector streets and principal and minor arterials) within Ashburn, Georgia, are shown on a map entitled "Major Thoroughfare Plan, Street and Road Classifications, Ashburn, Georgia." Both maps shall be dated and certified by the mayor and city clerk of the City of Ashburn, and said maps and all explanatory matter thereon accompany and are hereby made a part of this ordinance.
Accurate copies of the "Official Zoning Map of Ashburn, Georgia," and the "Major Thoroughfare Plan, Street and Road Classifications, Ashburn, Georgia," shall be on file in the office of the zoning administrator at all times. Said map shall accurately show all map amendments made in accordance with the provisions of this ordinance, and the date when said amendments became effective. It shall be the duty of the zoning administrator to see to it that the "Official Zoning Map of Ashburn, Georgia," and the "Major Thoroughfare Plan, Street and Road Classifications, Ashburn, Georgia," displayed in his office are kept up-to-date and accurately show all amendments.
4-3. Interpretation of Zoning District Boundaries. When uncertainty exists with respect to the location of boundaries of any zoning district as shown on the "Zoning Map of Ashburn," the following rules shall apply:
4-3.1. Unless otherwise specifically indicated, where district boundaries are indicated on the zoning map as approximately following the centerline of a street right-of-way, highway, railroad right-of-way line, stream bed, or river bed, such centerlines shall be interpreted to be such district boundaries.
4-3.2. Boundaries indicated as approximately following platted lot lines shall be interpreted as following such lot lines.
4-3.3. Where district boundaries are indicated on the zoning map as approximately following the corporate limit lines, then such corporate limit lines shall be interpreted to be such district boundaries.
4-3.4. Where district boundaries are indicated on the zoning map as being set back from the centerline of a street right-of-way, road, highway, railroad, stream, or river, and parallel thereto, then such district boundaries, unless otherwise specifically indicated, shall be interpreted as being at the scaled distance from the centerline of such street, road, highway, railroad, stream, or river as being parallel thereto.
Section 5. - Schedule of permitted uses.
5-1. Table of Permitted Uses. Within the various zoning districts as indicated on the "Official Zoning Map of Ashburn, Georgia," no building, structure, or land shall be constructed, erected, altered, or used except as indicated in the following schedules:
5-1.1. Uses permitted by right. Uses permitted as a matter of right are indicated on the following schedule by the letter "X" in the appropriate column.
5-1.2. Special exception. Uses permitted only after special review and approval of the board of appeals are indicated on the following schedule by the letters "SE" in the appropriate column.
5-1.3A. Use limitations. Uses marked in the following schedule by an asterisk in the appropriate column are subject to subparagraph 10-2.3(b)(2) of this ordinance.
5-1.3B. Use limitations. Uses marked in the following schedule by a double asterisk in the appropriate column are limited to the City of Ashburn historic district(s).
EXPAND
Zoning District
Land Use R-20 R-12 R-8 R-8-M M-R MHP R-P N-C G-C D-C WLI H-I C-A
Residential and Related Uses
1. Accessory buildings oruses X X X X X X X X X X X X
2. Bed andbreakfast SE** SE** X X X X X
3. Church or other place of worship, including Sunday school buildings, parish houses, convents, nursery school, kindergartens and other related uses on the same premises and operated by the church provided that within any and all residential districts: X X X X X X X SE SE SE
a) The lot size shall be no less than twoacres;
b) Any building or structure established with any such use shall haveminimum side and rear yards of 50feet.
4. Dwelling,single-family X X X X X X
5. Dwelling, two-family(duplex) X X X X
6. Dwelling, three-family(triplex) X X X X
7. Residential group development projects (see section9-2) X SE SE
8. Dwelling, multifamily (see section9-3) X SE SE
8A. Family personal carehome X X X X
9. Fraternities and sororities, located within 500 feet from the nearest point of a main college campus and located on a principal or minor arterial as specified on the Major Thoroughfare Plan, Street and Road Classifications, Ashburn, Georgia. SE SE SE SE
9A. Group personal care home, providedthat: X X X X
a) Minimum lot size shall be oneacre;
b) Parking is restricted to rear yard and shall be screened per section 3-19.
10. Garage apartment, provided no more than one shall be permitted on a lot with the principal dwelling, and provided such shall be permitted only within the rear yard. The lot on which such use is to be established must be 50 percent greater in lot area than the minimum standard lot size for the respective district. (Accessory use) X X X X
11. Guest quarters or servant's quarters, provided no more than one shall be permitted on a lot with the principal building and provided such shall be permitted only within the rear yard. The lot on which such use is to be established must be 50 percent greater in lot area than the minimum standard lot size for the respective district. (Accessory use) X X X X X X
12. Home occupation (see sections 9-1 and12-6.2) SE SE SE SE SE SE X X X X X X
13. Manufactured home, individually sited. (see section9-8) X
14. Manufactured housing park, providedthat: X
a) Access to manufactured housing parks shall be by paved public street and either on or within 1,000 feet of an readily accessible to a principal or minor arterial, or collector street as designated on the Major Thoroughfare Plan, Street and Road Classifications, Ashburn, Georgia; and
b) The manufactured housing park meets the requirements of section 9-4 of this ordinance.
15. Publicly owned recreation centers, Y.M.C.A. and institutions of a similarnature SE SE SE SE SE X X X X
16. Schools, public orprivate SE SE SE SE SE SE X X
17. Schools, kindergartens, nurseries, and day care centers,provided that: X X X
a) Off-street loading and unloading spaces aresupplied; and
b) At least 100 square feet of outdoor play area is supplied for each childaccommodated; and
c) The entire play area is enclosed by a steel mesh security fence or other substantial building material affording equal or better protection having a minimum height of at least four feet and constructed in such a manner that maximum safety to the children is ensured.
18. Reserved
Business Uses
19. Adult entertainment establishments, providedthat: X
a) Lot must front arterial street, and must be at leastone acre in size;
b) Adult bookstores shall maintain all windows in a clear unobstructed manner so as to provide an open and unobstructed view through the interior of the bookstore;
c) Adult movie houses shall maintain all windows in a clear and unobstructed manner, so that the entire reception area, lobby, ticket sales area of the theater is open and unobstructed to view by the public from all adjoining public thoroughfares and rights-of-way;
d) Adult service establishments (bathhouses, etc.) shall maintain all windows in a clear and unobstructed manner, so that the entire reception area, lobby, ticket sales area of the service establishments is open and unobstructed to view by the public from all adjoining public rights-of-way.
20. Ambulance service or rescue squad,private X X X X
21. Amusement or recreational activities (commercial), carried on outside a building such as a golf or baseball driving range, miniature golf course, softball field, and uses of a similar nature. X
22. Amusement or recreational activities (commercial), carried on wholly within a building, such as cinema, theater, auditorium, or game room. X X X
23. Animal hospital, commercial kennels, veterinary clinic or animal boarding place, located at least 300 feet from the nearest residential district. X X X
24. Reserved
25. Artstudio X X X X
26. Automobile service station, provided that major auto repair shall not be permitted, nor shall there be outside storage of materials or equipment other than merchandise offered for sale in a G-C or D-C district. X X X X
26A. Automobile repair shops (garages), paint and body shops, and auto upholstery shops. Any outside storage shall be screened per section 3-19. X X X
27. Automobile, truck, farm equipment, or motorcycle sales (including rebuilding of parts or sale of parts and equipment indoors only, no outside storage of equipment or parts except for WLI districts). X X
27A. Auto washerteria X X X
28. Automobile parking lot or parking garage(commercial) SE X X X X
29. Bait and tacklestore X X X X
30. Banks, financial institutions, and offices not specifically listed elsewhere in this column. X X X X X X
31. Bookbinding, printing, engraving, blueprinting, photostating, or letter shop SE X X X X X
32. Building contractor and related activities and storage of building supplies and materials, provided that equipment and materials temporarily stored or displayed outside shall be completely enclosed by a suitable fence. No sawmill or planing mill operations shall take place on the premises within any district other than the H-I district. X X X
33. Businessschools SE X X
33A. Catering service(foodstuffs) SE X X X
34. Clothing and dry goods stores, including shoe stores, men's shops, women's shops, variety stores and stores of a similar nature. X X X
35. Clubs orlodges X X SE
35A. Commercial and professional group developmentprojects X X X X
36. Public colleges and universities, including dormitories and fraternity or sorority houses if located on main campus. X X X X X X X X
37. Cultural facilities, libraries, museums, and similarfacilities. SE SE SE SE SE X X X X
38. Dance school orstudio SE X X SE
39. Departmentstores X X X
40. Drive-inrestaurants SE X
41. Drive-intheater X X
42. Drugstores X X X
43. Electrical repair and a similar repair of a heavy commercialnature. X X X
44. Electrical appliance repair, wholly contained within abuilding. X X X X X
45. Experimentallaboratory X X X
46. Freight expressoffice X X X
47. Farmers'market X X X
48. Feed, seed, and insecticides, and fertilizer retailsales X X X
49. Flowershop SE X X X
50. Food stores, including retail bakeries, meat markets, dairy products, confectioner shops, beer and wine stores, and stores of a similar nature. X X X X
51. Funeralhome SE X
52. Furniture upholsteryshop SE X X X X
53. Glass sales andstorage X X X
54. Golfcourse X X X
55. Golf course, providedthat: SE SE SE SE SE SE SE
a) It shall be for daytime use only;and
b) All greens and fairways shall be set back at least 100 feet from any exterior property lines; and
c) Structures shall meet minimum setback requirements for single-family residences within the respective district.
56. Growing of crops,gardens X X X X X X X X X X X X
57. Home furnishings and hardware, such as appliance sales, hardware stores, paint stores, sporting goods stores, furniture stores, and stores of a similar nature. X X X
58. Hospitals, nursing homes, care homes and congregate personal care homes, provided that: SE SE SE SE SE SE
a) The lot size for such use shall be no less than three acres; and
b) Any building or structure established with any such use shall have minimum side and rear yards of 50 feet; and
c) The front yard setback shall be 25 feet more than required for other structures within the same district; and
d) The lot upon which any such uses are built shall front on a collector or arterial street as specified on the Major Thoroughfare Plan, Streets and Road Classifications, Ashburn, Georgia.
59. Hotels X X
60. Laboratory serving professional requirements - medical,dental X X X X X
61. Laundromat or washerteria (commercial) (self-servicelaundries) X X
62. Locksmith, gunsmith - Repairs and salesonly. X X
63. Medical, dental or similarclinic X X X SE
64. Motels/hotels X X
65. Music teachingstudio SE X X SE
66. Neighborhood dry cleaning plants, laundry pickupstations: X X
a) The dry cleaning plant and its operation shall meet the requirements of the National Fire Protection Association (NFPA) and the Underwriters' Laboratories, Inc.; and
b) The dry cleaning plant shall serve not more than one pickup and delivery station exclusive of one occupying the same premises as the plant; and
c) The building for a dry cleaning plant shall not contain more than 4,000 square feet of floor area inclusive of dry cleaning pickup facilities within the building; and
d) The dry cleaning plant shall be designed to operate in a manner that will not emit smoke, or odor, or objectionable waste materials and which will not produce noise that will carry beyond the walls of the building occupied by such plant; and
e) Fuel for operation of equipment shall be smokeless fuel; and
f) The applicant for the dry cleaning plant shall certify in writing at the time of application that all the above conditions will be met.
67. Newspaper or periodical production, sales anddistribution X X X X
68. Newspaper or periodicalpublishing X X X X X X
68A. Nightclub or lounge, provided that in an N-C or G-C district lot must front collector or arterial street. SE X SE
69. Office equipment sales andservice X X X
70. Pawnshops and small personal loan offices other than commercialbanks. X X
71. Personal service shops, such as barbershops, beauty shops, shoe repair, and watch repair. SE X X X
72. Pest control, providing no outside storage other than within a WLI or H-I district. X X X X
73. Photographystudio SE X X X
73A. Radio and television stations (subject to section9-6) X X
74. Radio and televisionstudios SE X X X
75. Radio, television and microwave towers and utility substations, provided all buildings, masts, and other facilities are located at least 200 feet from adjacent property lines on any lot which adjoins any residential district. SE X X
76. Railroad or bus passengerstation X X X
77. Railroad freightstation X X X
77A. Rent-all facilities. Any outside storage subject to section 3-19. No outsidestorage in D-C. X X X
78. Restaurants X X X X X
79. Retail auto parts and tirestores X X X X
80. Retail stores, not covered elsewhere in thissection. X X
81. Residential mobile home sales room and saleslot X X
82. Shell home displayyards X X
83. Shrubbery sales (Within an N-C zone, must be wholly contained within the building.) X X X X
84. Specialty shops, such as gift shops, jewelry stores, jewelry repair, and antique shops. X X X
85. Taxidermist X X
86. Taxioffice X X X
87. Telegraph or messenger service X X X
88. Tradeschools X X
89A. Upholsteryshops X X X
89. Utility trailer rentals X X
90. Vending machines, located out-of-doors subject to yard and setback requirements for the respective districts (as an accessory use only). X X X X X X
Manufacturing, Wholesale and Industry
91. Acid storage and manufacturing X
92. Feed, grain or fertilizer wholesaling andstorage X X X
93. Freezer locker service, icestorage X X X
94. Greenhouse and plant nursery(commercial) X X
95. Heavy manufacturing. The like which produce noise, odor, dust, fumes, fire hazards or other nuisance features shall be setback not less than 500 feet from any H-I district boundary.
a) Asphalt or concreteplant X
b) Batterymanufacturing SE
c) Bonedistillation SE
d) Corrosive acidsmanufacture SE
e) Cottongins SE
f) Drop forgeindustry SE
g) Fat or oil manufacture (including fatrendering) X
h) Fertilizermanufacture X
i) Grain mill productmanufacture X
j) Leather tanningmanufacture X
k) Linoleummanufacture X
l) Luggagemanufacture SE
m) Lumber manufacture (lumber sawmill andstorage) X
n) Meat processingplant X
o) Metal productmanufacturing SE
p) Organic materialsreduction X
q) Peanut processingfacility SE
r) Petroleum refining (and relatedindustry) SE
s) Pulp or papermill SE
t) Rubber of plastic productmanufacture X
u) Stone, clay, or glassmanufacture X
v) Transportation equipmentmanufacture X
96. Junkyard, scrap yard, auto graveyard or recycling center, providedthat: X
a) Minimum of fiveacres;
b) Front yard setback increased 50 feet overrequirements for other uses in H-Izone;
c) Cannot be adjacent to any residential district;
d) The entire junkyard or auto graveyard shall be screened as required insection 3-19; and
e) Must have special approval by the city council.
97. Lightmanufacturing
a) Appliance and electronic device assembly plant including the manufacturing of parts for appliances and electronic devices; and SE X X
b) Manufacturing of food, cosmetics and pharmaceutical products, but not including fish and meat products, sauerkraut, vinegar, yeast, and rendering plants; and X X
c) Machine shop and related activities;and SE X X
d) Construction of signs, including painted signs;and SE X X
e) Cooperage;and X X
f) Bottling and canning plants;and X X
g) Light sheet metal products such as ventilating ducts and eaves; and X X
h) Ice manufacturing;and X X
i) Laundry, cleaning, and dyeing plants;and X X
j) Musical instruments, toys, novelties, and similar products; and SE X X
k) Ceramic products provided that kilns shall only beby gas or electricity;and SE SE X X
l) Tirerecapping X X
m) Assembly of products from previously prepared materials; and SE X X
n) Tinsmith and roofingservices. X X
98. Lumberyard, or other storage not specifically listed in this column, such yards if within a WLI district shall be enclosed by a fence and no storage shall be permitted outside such fence. X X
99. Petroleum bulk plant (storage and wholesaledistribution) X X
100. Planing or sawmill X
101. Railroad classification and repairyard X
102. Raising or sale of livestock andfowl X
103. Sanitary landfill orincineration X
104. Truckterminal X X
105. Warehousing (not related to sales on thepremises) SE X X
106. Warehousing (mini-storage facility). Storage for personal property - must be wholly contained within a building. SE X X
107. Wholesaling of a light commercial nature when operated in conjunction with or as part of a retail outlet. X X X X
108. Wholesaling (not covered in other parts of thislist). SE X X
Signs
109. Advertising incidental usesign X X X X X X X X X X X X X
110. Advertising separate use sign X* X* X*
111. Point of business sign (in accordance with restriction in section 9-1 if for home occupation); in R-P not to exceed 12 square feet combined; identification sign, bulletin board. X X X X X X X X X X X X X
112. Signs which do not require a permit (refer to section10-4) X X X X X X X X X X X X X
Miscellaneous
113. Armories for meetings and trainingorganizations. X X
114. Carnival, rodeo or horse show, not to exceed tendays. X X X X
115. Religious meetings held in a tent or other temporary structure, not to exceed ten days. X X X
116. Temporary buildings and storage of materials (in conjunction with construction of a building) on a lot where construction is taking place or on adjacent lots such temporary uses to be terminated upon completion of construction. X X X X X X X X X X X X X
117. Travel trailer park, providedthat: X
a) No travel trailer park shall be located except with direct access to a principal or minor arterial with a minimum lot width of not less than 50 feet for that portion used for entrance and exit. No entrances or exits shall be through a residential district, or shall require movement of traffic from the park through a residential district.
b) The minimum lot area required for a travel trailer park shall be three acres.
c) Spaces in a travel trailer park may be used by travel trailers provided they shall be rented by the day or week only, and an occupant of such space shall remain in the trailer park for a period of not more than 30 days.
d) Management headquarters, recreational facilities, toilets, showers, laundry facilities and other uses and structures customarily incidental to operation of a trailer park are permitted accessory uses in any district in which travel trailer parks are allowed provided such establishments and the parking area primarily related to their operations shall not occupy more than ten percent of the area of the park.
e) No space shall be located so that any part intended for occupancy for sleeping purposes shall be within 20 feet of the exterior property line.
f) In addition to meeting the above requirements, the travel trailer park site plan shall be accompanied by a certificate of approval from the Turner County Health Department.
  (Ord. No. 11-06, § 1, 4-7-2011; Ord. No. 18-04, § 1(Exh. A), 4-5-2018)
Section 6. - Setback and yard requirements by district.
6-1. Development Standards. Within the various zoning districts as indicated on the Official Zoning Map of Ashburn, Georgia, no building or structure, excluding all signs other than the advertising signs, shall be constructed or erected except as indicated in the following schedule:
EXPAND
Zoning District
Development Standard R-20 R-12 R-8 andR8M M-R R-P MHP
Minimum gross floor area per dwelling unit
(squarefeet)  1,500  1,200 800 800*** 800*** 400
Minimum lot area for dwelling units
(square feet) 20,000 12,000 8,000 square feet for single-family; 4,000 square feet additional lot space for duplex, 4,000 square feet additional lot space for triplex 6,000 square feet for first unit plus 3,000 square feet each additional unit Gross minimum lot size of 5 acres; see section 9-4 for individual units
Minimum lot width
(feet) 100 100 80 60 60 200
Minimum front yard setback from the centerline ofR/W
(feet)
Principal & MinorArterials 70* 70* 65* 65* 65* 65*
CollectorStreets 60* 60* 55* 55* 55* 55*
Local Streets 55* 55* 50* 50* 50* 50*
Minimum side yards
(feet) 10 10 10 8 feet except multifamily or residential group development projects, 3 or more stories - 20 feet 20
Minimum rear yards
(feet) 40 40 30 30** 30** 20
Maximum height
(feet) 35 35 35 None** None** 35*
    * Plus half any amount which the R/W width exceeds 50 feet for local streets, 60 feet for collector streets, and 80 feet for principal and minor arterials.
** The minimum distance from all other property lines to any building over 35 feet in height shall be increased 1 foot for every 2 feet (or part of 2 feet) of building height greater than 35 feet.
*** 800 square feet for each unit (2-bedroom or larger); 600 square feet for each 1-bedroom unit (not to exceed 25% of project); 400 square feet for each efficiency unit (not to exceed 25% of project).
EXPAND
Zoning District
Development Standard N-C G-C D-C WLI H-I C-A†
Minimum lot width(feet)  60  60 None None None 150
Minimum front yard setback from the centerline of R/W(feet):
Principal/minorarterials 100** 80** None 100** 100** 100**
Collectorstreets 70** 65** None 70** 70** N/A
Local streets 65** 65** None 55** 55** N/A
Minimum sideyards *
None*** *
None*
** *
None**
* *
None**
* *
None
*** 40*

***
Minimum rear yards(feet) *
12*** *
12***
None**
* *
12*** *
None*
** 40*

***
Maximumheight None* None* None* None* None* None*
    * The minimum distance from all other property lines to any building over 35 feet in height shall be increased 1 foot for every 2 feet (or part of 2 feet) of building height greater than 35 feet.
** Plus half any amount which the right-of-way width exceeds 50 feet for local streets, 60 feet for collector streets, and 80 feet for principal and minor arterials.
*** If the adjoining yard is within any residential district, the yard requirements specified in this table shall be increased 10 feet; and screening shall be provided as specified in section 3-19 along the lot line common with said lot.
† Additional development standards and guidelines are contained in the ordinance to regulate Adult Entertainment Establishments within the City of Ashburn, adopted July 1, 1993, Ordinance No. 93-006, as amended [see ch. 10, art. II et seq., Code of Ordinances].
Section 7. - Off-street parking and service requirements.
7-1. Scope of Provisions. Except as provided in this section, no application for a building permit shall be approved unless there is included, with the plan for such building, improvements or use, a site plan showing the required space reserved for off-street parking and service purposes. Occupancy shall not be allowed unless the required off-street parking and service facilities have been provided in accordance with those shown on the approved plan.
7-2. Parking Spaces May Not Be Reduced. Off-street parking spaces shall not be reduced below the minimum required number for the use or facility to which they are assigned.
7-3. Drainage, Construction and Maintenance. All off-street parking, loading and service areas shall be drained so as to prevent damage to abutting properties and/or public streets and shall be constructed of materials which will assure a surface resistant to erosion. All parking facilities shall be properly paved. All such areas shall be at all times maintained at the expense of the owners thereof in a clean, orderly and dustfree condition.
7-4. Separation From Walkways, Sidewalks, and Streets. All off-street parking, loading and service areas shall be separated from walkways, sidewalks and streets by curbing or other suitable protective device.
7-5. Parking Area Design. Parking stalls shall have a minimum width of nine feet and length of 20 feet. There shall be provided adequate interior driveways to connect each parking space with a public right-of-way. Interior driveways shall be at least 24 feet wide where used with 90-degree angle parking, at least 18-feet wide where used with 60-degree angle parking, at least 12 feet wide where used with 45-degree parking, and at least 12 feet wide where used with parallel parking. Where there is no parking, interior driveways shall be at least ten feet wide for one-way traffic movement and at least 20 feet wide for two-way traffic movement.
7-6. Joint Parking Facilities. Two or more neighboring uses, of the same or different types, may provide joint facilities, provided that the number of off-street parking spaces are not less than the sum of the individual requirements.
7-7. Pavement Markings and Signs. Each off-street parking space shall be clearly marked, and pavement directional arrows or signs shall be provided wherever necessary. Markers, directional arrows and signs shall be properly maintained so as to ensure their maximum efficiency.
7-8. Number of Parking Spaces. In order to assure a proper and uniform development of public parking areas throughout the area of jurisdiction of this ordinance, to relieve traffic congestion on the streets and to minimize any detrimental effects on adjacent properties, off-street parking space shall be provided and maintained as called for in the following schedule. For any use or class of use not specifically mentioned in this schedule the requirement shall be the same as a similar use as mentioned herein. Parking requirements for additions to existing uses or structures shall be based upon the total development even if the existing use is deficient. These regulations shall apply to all zoning districts except the D-C district.
EXPAND
Use Parking Spaces
7-8.1 Apartment and Multifamily Dwelling Two spaces for each dwelling unit.
7-8.2 Auditorium, Stadium, Assembly Hall, Gymnasium, Theater, Community Recreation Center, Church (a) One space per four fixed seats in the largest assembly room or area, or (b) one space for each 40 square feet of floor area available for the accommodation of movable seats in the largest assembly room or combination of fixed and movable seats, or (c) one space per each 150 square feet of gross floor area, whichever is greatest.
7-8.3 Automobile Fueling Station One space (in addition to service area) for each pump and grease rack and one space for each one employee during period of greatest employment, but not less than six spaces.
7-8.4 Automobile Sales and Repair, Service Stations and Auto Washerterias Same as 7-8.3 above plus one space for each 500 square feet of gross floor area of the shop or washerteria.
7-8.4A Bed and Breakfast One space per guest room.
7-8.5 Bowling Alley Four spaces per alley plus requirements for any other use associated with the establishment such as a restaurant, etc.
7-8.6 Church (a) One space for each 150 square feet of gross floor, building, ground area, or combination devoted to such use; or (b) on space per each four seats or facilities available for patron use; whichever is greatest.
7-8.7 Club or Lodge One space for each two employees plus one space for each 200 square feet of gross floor area within the main assembly area plus additional spaces for other uses permitted within the premises.
7-8.8 Combined Uses Parking spaces shall be the total of the spaces required for each separate use established by this schedule.
7-8.9 Dance School One space for each employee plus one space per 150 square feet of gross floor area plus safe and convenient loading and unloading of students.
7-8.9A Family Personal Care and Group Personal Care Home One space for each employee on shift of greatest employment plus one space for each two beds, plus any accessory uses.
7-8.10 Fraternity or Sorority or College Dormitories One parking space for eachtwo residents and one space for each two employees.
7-8.11 Golf Course Two spaces for each hole and one space for each twoemployees plus requirements for any other use associated with the golf course.
7-8.12 High Schools, Trade Schools, Colleges, and Universities One space for each teacher, employee, and administrative personnel plus safe and convenient loading of students plus five spaces for each classroom.
7-8.13 Hospitals, Nursing Homes, Care Homes and Congregate Personal CareHomes. One space for each bed plus one space for each employee on shift of greatest employment.
7-8.14 Hotel One space for each guest room, suites, or units plus any spaces required for accessory uses.
7-8.15 Indoor and Outdoor Recreational Areas (Commercial), YMCA and Similar Uses (a) One space for each 150 square feet of gross floor, building, ground area, or combination devoted to such use; or (b) one space per each four seats or facilities available for patron use; whichever is greatest.
7-8.16 Industrial or Manufacturing Establishment or Warehouse Two spaces for each three employees on shift of greatest employment, plus one space for each vehicle used directly in the conduct of the business.
7-8.17 Kindergarten and Nursery Schools One space for each employee, plus safe and convenient loading of students.
7-8.18 Manufactured Housing Park Two spaces for each manufactured homespace.
7-8.19 Motel One space for each unit plus one space for each two employees, plus any spaces required for accessory uses.
7-8.20 Office, Professional Building or Similar Use One space for each 300 square feet of the gross floor area, plus one space for each two employees.
7-8.21 One- and Two-Family Dwellings Two spaces per each unit (residential driveways will satisfy this need).
7-8.22 Personal Service Establishment One space for each 200 square feet of gross floor area.
7-8.23 Restaurant or Place Dispensing Food, Drink, or Refreshments, Including Nightclubs and Lounges One space for each two seats plus one space for each two employees on shift of greatest employment.
7-8.24 Schools, Elementary One space for each teacher, one space for each two employees and administrative personnel, and one space for each classroom, plus safe and convenient loading and unloading of students.
7-8.25 Swimming Pool One space for every 200 square feet of water surface area plus requirements for additional uses in association with the establishment such as a restaurant, etc.
7-8.26 Shopping Center One space for every 200 square feet of gross floor area.
7-8.27 Retail Stores of All Types Not Otherwise Mentioned One space per 150 square feet of gross floor area.
7-8.28 Wholesale Establishments One space for each employee plus sufficient spaces to accommodate vehicles used in the conduct of the business.
7-8.29 Adult Entertainment Establishments One space per 100 square feet of gross building area or one [space] for each three customer seats, whichever is greater.
  7-9. Minimum Number of Loading Spaces Required. Industrial, wholesale and retail operations shall provide loading spaces as follows:
7-9.1. Spaces appropriate to functions. Off-street loading spaces shall be provided as appropriate to the functions and scope of operation of individual or groups of buildings and uses.
7-9.2. Design of loading spaces. Off-street loading spaces shall be designed and constructed so that all maneuvering to park and unpark vehicles for loading and unloading can take place entirely within the property lines of the premises. Loading spaces shall be provided so as not to interfere with the free, normal movement of vehicles and pedestrians on public rights-of-way.
7-9.3. Ingress and egress. Ingress and egress to off-street loading spaces shall conform to driveway entrance regulations of the City of Ashburn.
7-10. Curb Cut Requirements. In any district as described below where the lowering or cutting away of curbs, or the placement of asphalt and/or driveway pipe on noncurbed sections for the purpose of ingress and egress is required to the property, such curb cuts or asphalt width shall be placed through the entire right-of-way and shall be subject to the following provisions:
7-10.1. Residential curb cuts R-20, R-12, R-8, R-8-M, M-R, and R-P zoning areas (excluding multifamily, residential group development projects and manufactured housing park development).
7-10.1.1. No more than two combined entrances and exits shall be allowed any parcel of property, the front of which is less than 200 feet on any one street. Additional entrances or exits for parcels having a frontage in excess of 200 feet shall be permitted at the rate of one entrance/exit for each additional 100 feet.
7-10.1.2. At street intersections (corner lots), no curb cuts shall be located within 25 feet of the intersection of two curblines or such lines extended; or within 15 feet of the intersection of two property lines (right-of-way lines) or such lines extended, whichever is more restrictive. On principal or minor arterials or collector streets, no driveway shall be within 70 feet of the intersection of two curblines or curblines extended.
7-10.1.3. The distance between any two curb cuts on the same side of the street shall be not less than ten feet. Said distance shall be measured between the point of tangency of the curb return radii and the established curb.
7-10.1.4. All driveways shall be constructed so as to have at least five feet from any front property line (excluding right-of-way), except that a curb return may become tangent to a curbline at a point where such property line extends with the curbline.
7-10.1.5. The maximum width of any driveway shall not exceed 24 feet measured at the right-of-way line.
7-10.1.6. The sum of the two curb return radii for any curb cut shall not exceed 15 feet.
7-10.1.7. When development on sites where existing curb cuts are abandoned and access is no longer afforded due to parking lots, buildings or other permitted structures, the driveway shall be removed, the sidewalk (if existing) shall be replaced, the curb and gutter shall be replaced, fill dirt backfilled to its natural state; where it is a piped driveway to a dirt or paved street, said pipe shall be removed, asphalt removed and the shoulders and ditch regraded to its natural preexisting state.
7-10.2. Commercial, industrial, manufactured housing park, and multifamily curb cuts.
7-10.2.1. No more than two combined entrances or exits shall be allowed any parcel or frontage which is less than 300 feet on any one street. On parcels less than 150 feet, only one entrance shall be allowed provided it is a two-way driveway (two one-way driveways shall be allowed in lieu of the one two-way). Additional entrances or exits for parcels of property having a frontage in excess of 300 feet shall be permitted at the rate of one entrance-exit for each additional 150 feet.
7-10.2.2. No driveway shall be located closer than 150 feet of an existing driveway on an abutting lot. Existing lots of record less than 150 feet frontage shall be allowed one combined entrance/exit not to exceed 24 feet at right-of-way line.
7-10.2.3. At street intersections (corner lots), no curb cuts shall be located within 70 feet of the intersection of two curblines or within 60 feet of the intersection of two property lines (right-of-way lines) where such lines extended, whichever is more restrictive.
7-10.2.4. All driveways shall be constructed so as to be at least 12.5 feet from any property line except that a curb return may become tangent to a curbline at a point where the property line extended intersects such curbline.
7-10.2.5. Maximum width of any driveway shall not exceed 35 feet measured at the right-of-way line; minimum two-way shall be 24 feet at right-of-way line with a maximum of 12.5-foot radius. No two driveways on the same property shall be closer than 25 feet.
7-10.2.6. The maximum width of any curb cut in N-C, G-C, WLI and H-I zones shall not exceed 35 feet at the right-of-way line.
7-10.2.7. The sum of the two curb return radii for any one curb cut shall not be less than 25 feet, nor greater than 40 feet.
7-10.2.8. When development on sites where existing curb cuts are abandoned and access is no longer afforded due to parking lots, buildings, or other permitted structures, the driveway shall be removed, the sidewalk (if existing) shall be replaced, the curb and gutter shall be replaced, fill dirt backfilled to its natural state; where it is a piped driveway to a dirt or paved street, said pipe shall be removed, asphalt removed and the shoulders and ditch regraded to its natural preexisting state.
7-10.3. Residential group development curb cuts.
7-10.3.1. No more than one combined entrance and exit shall be allowed any parcel of property, the total area of which is less than or equal to two acres. Additional entrances for parcels having areas greater than two acres will be granted at the rate of one combined entrance and exit per two acres.
7-10.3.2. At street intersections (corner lots), no curb cuts shall be located within 70 feet of the intersection of two curblines or within 60 feet of the intersection of two property lines where such lines extended, whichever is more restrictive.
7-10.3.3. The maximum width of any driveway shall not exceed 24 feet measured at the right-of-way line.
7-10.3.4. The sum of the two curb return radii for any one curb cut shall not exceed 15 feet.
7-10.3.5. All driveways shall be constructed so as to be at least 12.5 feet from any property line except that a curb return may become tangent to a curbline at a point where the property line extended intersects such curbline.
7-11. Solid Waste Container Pad. All site plans for apartments and commercial buildings shall include a solid waste container pad that has easy and safe access for the front end loader. The number of pads shall be based on the following criteria if apartments: 0.2 cubic yard per unit; minimum container shall be four cubic yards.
(Ord. No. 18-04, §§ 2, 3, 4-5-2018)
Cross reference— Traffic and vehicles, ch. 82.
Section 8. - Nonconformances.
8-1. Nonconforming Lots. Any lot for which a plat or legal description has been recorded in the office of the clerk of superior court of Turner County at the time of passage of this ordinance which fails to comply with the dimensional requirements for the district in which it is located may, if vacant, be used for any of the uses permitted within the district by this ordinance, or if occupied by a structure containing a conforming use, may have the structure improved, enlarged, or extended; provided that in either case:
a.
Minimum requirements of the district for front, side, and rear yard, height, and floor area shall be complied with.
b.
A lot to be used for duplexes, multifamily dwellings, residential group development projects, or mobile homes, when allowed within the district, only if the lot meets the minimum lot area requirements for those uses in the district.
8-2. Nonconforming Uses of Land. Nonconforming uses consisting of lots used for storage yards, used car lots, auto wrecking [yards], junkyards, golf driving ranges, miniature golf, mobile home parks and similar open uses where the only buildings on the lot are incidental and accessory to the use of the lot and where such use of the land is not permitted to be established hereafter under this ordinance in the district in which it is located, shall be governed by the following restrictions in addition to the other requirements in this ordinance:
a.
When a nonconforming use of land has been changed to a conforming use, it shall not thereafter be used for any nonconforming use.
b.
Nonconforming uses of land shall not be changed to any but conforming uses.
c.
A nonconforming use of land shall not be enlarged to cover more land than was occupied by that use when it became nonconforming.
d.
When any nonconforming use of land is discontinued for a period in excess of six months, any future use of the land shall be limited to those uses permitted in that district under the provisions of this ordinance. Vacancy and/or nonuse of the land, regardless of the intent of the owner or tenant, shall constitute discontinuance under this provision.
8-3. Nonconforming Uses of Structures. Nonconforming uses consists of structures used, at the time of passage of this ordinance, for purposes not permitted in the district in which they are located. In addition to the other requirements of this ordinance, nonconforming uses of structures shall be governed by the following restrictions:
a.
An existing nonconforming use of a structure may be changed to a conforming use. An existing nonconforming use of a structure may be changed to another nonconforming use that is similar in its operation and effect on surrounding properties only after review and approval by the zoning board of appeals.
b.
An existing nonconforming use of a structure shall not be changed to another nonconforming use that generates more automobile or truck traffic, creates more noise, vibration, smoke, dust or fumes, is a more intensive use of structures than the existing nonconforming use, and is in any way a greater nuisance to the adjoining properties than the existing nonconforming use.
c.
A nonconforming use of a structure shall not be extended or enlarged except into portions of the structure which at the time the use became nonconforming were already erected and arranged or designed for such nonconforming use. No structural alterations shall be made in any structure occupied by a nonconforming use, which would in any way increase the floor space, area or volume of space occupied by the use.
d.
When any nonconforming use of a structure is discontinued for a period in excess of one year, any future use of the structure shall be limited to those uses permitted in that district under the provisions of this ordinance. Vacancy and/or nonuse of the building, regardless of the intent of the owner or tenant, shall constitute discontinuance under this provision.
8-4. Nonconforming Signs. Nonconforming signs shall be allowed to continue except as provided in section 10-2.1 and 10-3 as follows:
a.
A nonconforming sign shall not be replaced by another nonconforming sign except that the substitution or interchange of poster panels, painted boards, or demountable material on nonconforming signs shall be permitted.
b.
Minor repairs and maintenance of nonconforming signs such as repainting, electrical repairs, and neon tubing repairs shall be permitted. However, no structural repairs or changes in the size or shape of a nonconforming sign shall be permitted except to make the sign comply with the requirements of this ordinance.
c.
New point of business sign related to legally established nonconforming uses may be erected provided they comply with the sign regulations applicable to the use in the most restrictive district in which the use is permitted.
8-5. Reconstruction of Nonconforming Structures. When a nonconforming structure or a structure containing a nonconforming use or nonconforming sign is razed or damaged by fire, flood, wind, or act of God, such structure or sign may be reconstructed as a nonconforming use only if the damage totals less than 50 percent of the value of the structure. Structures which do not conform to the yard requirements of this ordinance shall also be governed by this provision.
8-6. Changes in Zoning. Any nonconformances created by a change in district boundaries or ordinance regulations after the date of passage of this ordinance shall also be governed by the provisions of this section.
Section 9. - Special provisions for certain uses.
9-1. Home Occupations. A home occupation as defined by this ordinance shall be governed by the following requirements:
9-1.1. Only residents of the dwelling may be engaged in the home occupation.
9-1.2. The home occupation shall be clearly incidental to the residential use of the dwelling and shall not change the essential residential character of the building.
9-1.3. No display of products shall be visible from the street, and only products produced on the premises may be sold on the premises.
9-1.4. Only one point of business sign, not exceeding two square feet in size, motionless, nonlighted, and attached to the principal building, shall be permitted; and no advertising signs shall be permitted.
9-1.5. Use of the building for this purpose shall not exceed 25 percent of one floor of the principal building.
9-1.6. No internal or external alterations inconsistent with the residential use of the building shall be permitted.
9-1.7. The occupation shall not constitute a nuisance in the neighborhood.
9-1.8. If the home occupation involves the use of an accessory building the same shall be granted only in the event that it is clearly evident that the use is incidental to the residential character of the property all upon condition that sales not be conducted upon the premises. An accessory building used in conjunction with a home occupation should be located, designed and generally follow normal and typical patterns of residential accessory buildings. The size of the accessory building used for a home occupation may not exceed 25 percent of the floor area of the principal building.
9-1.9. Instruction in music and similar subjects shall be limited to two students at a time.
9-1.10. Vehicles used primarily as passenger vehicles only shall be permitted in connection with the conduct of the customary home occupation.
9-1.11. No more than two guests may be boarded at any one time as a customary home occupation.
9-1.12. The following and similar uses shall be considered home occupations: accountant, addressing service, architect, art instructor, beauty shop (with no more than one operator), drafting, dressmaking, insurance agent, manufacturing agent, music teacher, notary public, photography, real estate agent, and tax consultant. The following and similar uses are considered appropriate uses of accessory buildings: artist or craftsman's work area, photographic darkroom, clock repair shop, gunsmith shop, laboratory, potters shop, basket weavers shop, and similar uses.
9-1.13. Not more than six children may be kept in the home as a nursery as a customary home occupation.
9-1.14. Newspaper or periodical publishing, as defined in section 2-29B, may be permitted as a special exception home occupation by the board of appeals upon application therefor provided such home occupation is limited to activities which only constitute newspaper or periodical publishing, does not involve presswork, sales or distribution, and otherwise meets the criteria for a permitted home occupation.
9-1.15. Required parking spaces for home occupations shall be determined by the board of appeals with a minimum of two spaces required in addition to those for the primary residence. Parking on public rights-of-way is expressly prohibited.
9-2. Residential Group Development Projects. The regulations as set forth in this subsection shall apply to all lands and structures intended primarily to provide for owner-occupied residential units, including condominiums, single-family attached dwelling units (with or without condominium ownership), patio homes, zero lot line, and other similar housing types. Multiple buildings may be allowed on a single lot in these development types. Residential group development projects are allowed in the M-R zoning district as a matter of right and in the R-P and D-C zoning districts as a special exception.
9-2.1. A condominium is defined as a type of residential development which includes individually owned dwelling units in a multifamily structure, combined with joint ownership of common areas of the buildings and grounds.
9-2.2. Single-family attached dwellings are a type of residential development which includes a dwelling unit on a subdivided lot individually owned, though attached by a common party wall to another dwelling unit on an adjacent lot. This housing type may also include provisions for joint ownership of common areas of certain buildings and grounds.
9-2.3. Two parking spaces shall be provided for each dwelling unit proposed as a part of any residential group development project. (Does not apply to D-C district.)
9-2.4. Residential group development projects shall conform to the building height restrictions listed in section 6 of these regulations.
9-2.5. Each dwelling unit proposed as part of a residential development project shall meet the minimum floor area requirements listed in section 6 of these regulations, as well as limitations for efficiency and one bedroom units as part of the total project development.
9-2.6. No building containing single-family attached units shall contain more than ten units. There shall be a fire wall with a four-hour rating between every unit. Each dwelling unit shall be serviced by separate utilities.
9-2.7. Minimum lot area for all residential group development projects shall meet the minimum lot area requirements listed in section 6.
9-2.8. The following minimum lot area shall be left in a natural state as open space or be developed as park and/or open air recreation facilities. Required yard areas shall not be credited towards this minimum open space allocation:
9-2.8.a. Single-family attached dwelling units - 500 square feet per dwelling unit (in addition to square feet required lot size per dwelling unit) on all projects one acre and over.
9-2.8.b. Condominium - 500 square feet per dwelling unit, in addition to square feet required minimum lot size per dwelling unit. (Does not apply to D-C district.)
9-2.9. Applications for a building permit for all residential group development projects shall be subject to the provisions of subsection 11-3 of these regulations. In addition, if the project proposes the subdivision of the tract into various individual lots and common area, a copy of the planned subdivision must be supplied to the zoning administrator. Said plat shall be properly recorded in the land records of Turner County prior to granting of the respective building permit(s).
9-2.10. Due to the design needs of this development type, standard lot sizes and interior setback lines shall not apply. However, zoning district mandated front, side and rear yard setbacks shall apply to all lots where these developments abut traditional development types or newly developed public streets.
9-2.11. Prior to development or expansion, all residential group development projects must be submitted to and reviewed by the Ashburn Planning Commission and must receive their approval prior to the issuance of any building permit. Proper utility plans, drainage plans and road development plans, drawn to city specifications, shall accompany the proposed site plan for city staff review prior to submission to the planning commission.
9-3. Multifamily Development Projects. Multifamily development projects are allowed within the M-R zoning district as a matter of right and within the R-P and D-C zoning districts as a special exception:
9-3.1. Multiple buildings may be allowed on a single lot in these development types.
9-3.2. Two parking spaces shall be provided for each dwelling unit proposed as part of any multifamily development project. (Does not apply to D-C district.)
9-3.3. Multifamily development projects shall conform to the building height restrictions and yard setback requirements listed in section 6 of these regulations.
9-3.4. Each dwelling unit proposed as part of a multifamily development project shall meet the minimum floor area requirements listed in section 6 of these regulations, as well as limitations for efficiency and one-bedroom units as part of the total project development.
9-3.5. All multifamily development projects shall leave 500 square feet per dwelling unit in a natural state as open space or be developed as park and/or open air recreation facilities. This requirement is in addition to the required lot size per dwelling unit. This requirement does not apply to multifamily development projects in the D-C district.
9-4. Manufactured Housing Parks. Manufactured housing parks shall meet the following requirements:
9-4.1. The minimum size shall be five acres.
9-4.2. Setbacks shall be as described in section 6, setback and yard requirements by district.
9-4.3. Each manufactured home shall be connected to a public water and sewer system. Within the City of Ashburn, no manufactured housing park shall be developed without public water and sewer.
9-4.4. The minimum area per manufactured home space shall be not less than 5,000 square feet with a minimum individual space width of 50 feet.
9-4.5. All manufactured home spaces or other park sites devoted to accessory uses (such as management offices, laundry facilities, recreational buildings, etc.) shall have an interior setback of ten feet from its respective area boundaries. Residential accessory buildings associated with dwelling units shall be set back five feet from its respective space boundaries, limit of one accessory building per manufactured home space.
9-4.6. A 20-foot interior roadway or drive, paved and properly drained, shall serve all manufactured home spaces and shall be drained so as to prevent damage to adjoining property, public or private. MHP developments shall require 18-foot pavement width where proposed for two-way traffic, and 12-foot pavement width for one-way traffic.
9-4.7. Each manufactured home space and accessory use space shall be clearly defined by means of concrete, steel or iron pipe markers placed at all corners.
9-4.8. At least 200 square feet per manufactured home space (not be a part of the required manufactured home space) shall be provided in one or more locations for community playground and recreation purposes.
9-4.9. All property lines of a manufactured housing park which abut any zoning district other than another MHP district shall be screened as described in section 3-19.
9-4.10. Prior to development or expansion, all manufactured housing park developments must be submitted to and reviewed by the Ashburn Planning Commission and must receive their approval prior to the issuance of any building permits. Proper utility plans, drainage plans and road development plans, drawn to city specifications, shall accompany the proposed site plan for city staff review prior to submission to the planning commission.
9-4.11. No manufactured housing park shall be occupied by a greater number of manufactured homes than that authorized in the approved site plan. No manufactured housing park shall be enlarged or expanded unless a separate manufactured housing park site plan has been reviewed and approved by the planning commission.
9-5. Variances to Height Requirements.
9-5.1. Chimneys, water, fire, radio and television towers, church spires, domes, cupolas, stage towers, and scenery lofts, cooling towers, elevator bulkheads, smokestacks, flagpoles, parapet walls, silos, granaries, windmills, and similar structures and their necessary mechanical appurtenances may be erected above the height limits herein established after a proper variance has been obtained from the zoning board of the City of Ashburn, except within the two-mile radius of the Turner County Airport shall conform to the height requirement of its district unless a variance for a greater height is approved by the zoning board of the City of Ashburn; any such approval of a greater height shall be in accord with the flight approach zone maps on file with the zoning administrator of the City of Ashburn.
9-6. Special Requirement for Radio and Television Stations.
9-6.1. In the G-C (general commercial) zoning district, all towers, masts, aerials and antennas (including guy wires therefor) and other apparatus which constitute accessory equipment necessary for the broadcasting of television signals and/or radio signals shall be:
a.
Located at least 200 feet from adjacent property lines on any lot which adjoins any residential district;
b.
Be approved by the Federal Aviation Administration as to location, construction, lighting, radio frequencies and height;
c.
Be approved by the Federal Communications Commission as to location.
9-7. Commercial and Professional Group Development Projects. These regulations shall apply to all lands and structures intended to be utilized for either commercial or professional uses where the developer proposes to apply the condominium development and sales concept.
9-7.1. Uses allowed within each specific commercial or professional group development project shall be those uses specifically indicated in its respective zoning district as being allowed as either a use by right or as a special exception.
9-7.2. In the application of the condominium sales concept, it shall be required that all building facades, landscaped grounds, and parking areas shall be commonly owned and maintained by a properly constituted owners association while individual ownership of specific units shall be permitted.
9-7.3. Each individual unit proposed for such a development shall be separated by a fire wall or floor with a two-hour rating, and each unit shall be serviced by separate utilities.
9-7.4. Parking for such developments, including layout and site design as well as parking space requirements, shall be subject to the requirements of section 7 of this ordinance.
9-7.5. Setback requirements and height limitations shall be subject to general zoning ordinance requirements.
9-7.6. Applications for a building permit for all proposed commercial and professional group development projects shall be subject to the provisions of subsection 11-3 of these regulations. In addition, if the project purposes the subdivision of the tract into various individual lots and common area, a copy of the proposed subdivision plat must be submitted for review.
9-7.7. Prior to the issuance of any building permits for such a proposed development, the required plans and plats must be submitted to the zoning administrator for review by the Ashburn Planning Commission. Proper utility plans and drainage plans, drawn to city specifications shall accompany the required land subdivision plat for city staff review prior to submission to the planning commission.
9-7.8. In addition to the requirements of section 9-7.7, the developer shall be required to submit a copy of his proposed condominium association agreements, prepared pursuant to Georgia law for review and approval by the Ashburn city attorney prior to recording of the subject plan and association agreements.
9-8. Compatibility Standards for Individually Sited Manufactured Homes.
9-8.1. Permitted locations. Manufactured homes qualifying for individual siting shall be allowed in residential areas designated with R-8-M zoning districts and shall be regulated uniformly with other housing constructed on site, subject to requirements and limitations set forth in the ordinance. Approval shall be in accordance with requirements set forth in this section.
9-8.2. Manufactured home compatibility standards review standards. The City of Ashburn Zoning Administrator will review manufactured homes applying to be permitted in the above-mentioned residential zoning classification areas as set out in this section. The manufactured homes must meet or exceed the following standards:
a.
Minimum width in excess of 16 feet.
b.
Minimum square footage as required by the zoning district in which it is located.
c.
The roof shall have a minimum 2:12 roof pitch and shall have a surface of wood shakes, asphalt composition, wood shingles, concrete, fiberglass or metal tiles, slate, built-up gravel materials, approved by the zoning administrator.
d.
The exterior siding material shall consist of wood, masonry, concrete, stucco, masonite metal or vinyl lap or other material of like appearance.
e.
The structure must be attached to a manufacturer's or state code approved foundation, and axles, wheels and tongue must be removed.
f.
The structure must be constructed according to standards established either by the State Minimum Standard Code as amended from time to time or the Southern [sic] Standard Building Code if locally adopted for site-built homes, or the National Manufactured Housing Construction and Safety Standards Act for manufactured homes. Each of these codes shall be applicable to the specific structure to which it applies.
g.
Installation of skirting shall be required. The area beneath each such structure must be enclosed with materials manufactured for such purposes, including but not limited to brick, concrete, rock or other materials which have been approved by the building inspector. The skirting shall be secured, as necessary, to assure stability, to minimize vibrations, to minimize susceptibility to wind damage. Access opening(s) not less than 18 inches in any dimension and not less than three square feet in area shall be provided to allow for access and inspection of the home. Venting requirements shall be according to manufacturer's installation instructions or according to rules and regulations adopted by the Georgia Safety Fire Commissioner.
h.
Manufactured homes placed in the R-8-M zoning districts or areas, shall meet all minimum compatibility standards set forth in this section, in addition to district standards applicable to all housing located therein.
Section 10. - Sign regulations.
10-1. Purpose. It is the purpose of this section to permit signs of a commercial nature in districts in which they are appropriate uses, and to regulate the size, density, and placement of signs intended to be seen from a public right-of-way in the interest of highway safety and the general welfare.
10-2. General Provisions. All signs within the area covered by these regulations shall be erected, constructed, or maintained in accordance with the provisions of this section; and only those signs that are listed in this section shall be erected within said area.
10-2.1. Traffic safety. No sign shall be erected or continued that:
a.
Obstructs the sight distance along a public right-of-way.
b.
Would tend by its location, color or nature to be confused with or obstruct the view of traffic signs or signals.
c.
Uses admonitions such as "stop," "go," "slow," "danger," etc., which might be confused with traffic directional signals.
10-2.2. Construction prohibited. No sign shall be attached to or painted on any street, rock or other natural object; nor shall any sign be located on any public right-of-way.
10-2.3. Density and setback requirements.
a.
Signs which do not require a permit shall be at least ten feet from any right-of-way line or property line.
b.
Signs which require a permit:
1.
Temporary, accessory and principal use signs shall be at least ten feet from any right-of-way line. (Setback requirement does not apply to D-C district.)
2.
Advertising separate use signs shall be set back for the district in which they are located unless otherwise specified in this section. No permit shall be issued for any advertising separate use sign closer than 100 feet to any residential district. Within the boundaries of the City of Ashburn Historic District(s), separate use signs are expressly prohibited.
(Map depicting City of Ashburn Historic District available in the office of the City of Ashburn Zoning Administrator.) All advertising separate use signs which are located outside the historic district and which are adjacent to state highways that are a part of the Federal Aid Primary System or the Interstate Highway System shall meet the minimum spacing requirements of the Official Code of Georgia and Georgia Department of Transportation Rules and Regulations which are applicable thereto.
10-3. Illumination Not To Be a Nuisance. Illumination devices such as, but not limited to, floodlights or spot lights shall be so placed and so shielded as to prevent the rays or illumination therefrom being cast into neighboring dwellings and approaching vehicles.
10-4. Signs Not Requiring a Permit. The following signs shall not require a permit:
a.
Signs to regulate traffic.
b.
Signs required to be posted by law.
c.
Warning signs and no trespassing signs.
d.
Signs established by governmental agencies.
e.
Signs indicating bus stops, taxi stands and similar public transportation.
f.
Signs not exceeding ten square feet in area advertising specific property for sale, lease, rent or development, on private property.
g.
Temporary real estate signs less than ten square feet in area advertising specific property for sale, lease, rent or development, on private property.
h.
Any sign not exceeding ten square feet in area other than advertising separate use signs or signs requiring electrical wiring.
i.
Temporary signs on private land involved in campaigns of religious, charitable, civic, fraternal, political and similar organizations.
10-5. Maximum Area of Signs. No advertising separate use sign within a 660-foot corridor along either side of I-75 shall be larger in area than 1,200 square feet per side, limit of two sign faces per travel direction. Within the remaining area of the city, no advertising separate use sign shall be larger in area than 400 square feet per side, limit of two sign faces per travel direction; except that in the City of Ashburn Historic District, such signage is prohibited. In addition to complying with the maximum area requirements which are contained herein, all advertising separate use signs which are adjacent to state highways that are a part of the Federal Aid Primary System or the Interstate Highway System shall meet all requirements, as amended from time to time, of the Official Code of Georgia and Georgia Department of Transportation Rules and Regulations which are applicable thereto.
10-6. Removal and Amortization Period. Any portable display sign now located within the City of Ashburn is hereby declared to be in noncompliance of section 10-2.1 of this ordinance. All such signs shall be removed within one year from the date of adoption of this ordinance.
10-7. Issuance of Permits. No sign, except those listed in section 10-4, shall be erected, hung, or placed or structurally altered without a permit from the zoning administrator. The zoning administrator shall only issue a permit for the erection or construction of a sign which meets the requirements of section 10 of this ordinance.
10-7.1. Filing procedures. Application for permits to erect, hang, or place a sign shall be submitted on forms obtainable from the zoning administrator. Each application shall be accompanied by plans showing the area of the sign, size and character and the method of illumination, if any, and the exact location proposed for such sign and in the case of a projecting sign, the proposed method of fastening said sign to the building structure, the vertical distance between such sign and the finished grade, and the horizontal distance between such sign and the street right-of-way.
10-7.2. Additional information. Each applicant shall, upon the request of the zoning administrator, submit any additional information deemed necessary by said administrator.
10-7.3. Temporary signs. If a temporary sign which does not require a permit is not intended to be left in place for a period to exceed six months, the owner may deposit a sum of $10.00 with the zoning administrator in lieu of the usual permit fee. If the sign is removed by the owner before the first day of the seventh month, the deposit shall be refunded in full; if not, the deposit shall be forfeited and the zoning administrator shall remove said sign.
Section 11. - Administration, enforcement and penalties.
11-1. Zoning Administrator. An administrative official designated as the zoning administrator by the City Council, Ashburn, Georgia, shall administer and enforce the provisions of this ordinance.
11-2. Building Permit Required. A building permit, or a sign permit in case of a sign, issued by the zoning administrator is required in advance of the initiation of construction, erection, moving, demolition or alteration of any building or structure or sign. No building or sign permit shall be issued except in conformity with the provisions of this ordinance; however, a building permit issued before the adoption of this ordinance shall remain valid with the same qualifications as issued under this ordinance.
11-3. Application for Building Permit.
All applications for building permits shall be accompanied by five site plans drawn to scale showing the actual dimensions of the lot to be built upon, the size and location of the lot, the number of dwelling units the building is designed to accommodate, the setback lines of the building on the "permit lot," the various easements on the lot and such other information as may be essential for determining whether the provisions of this ordinance are being observed. The following is required on the site plan before the site plan is considered by the zoning administrator and any permits are approved:
1.
Topography (MSL) existing and proposed.
2.
Drainage plans.
3.
Location and size of ingress/egress. All plans which affect federal and state routes must include a copy of the Georgia Department of Transportation approved curb cut plan.
4.
Water and sewer mains and services, both existing and proposed. Water and sewer services as well as fire hydrants in the lot and the specific meter size and location.
Single-family, duplex and triplex residences are excluded from the above requirements.
Any building permit shall become void if the work involved has not begun within six months after the date of issuance of the permit or if the work or development authorized by such permit is suspended or abandoned for a period of six months after the work of development is commenced; provided that extensions of time and periods not exceeding six months each may be allowed in writing by the zoning administrator. Any unapproved deviation from the approved site plan shall cause the zoning administrator to not issue a certificate of occupancy. ;b1; Single-family residential site plans need not be drawn to scale, but must be accurate as to dimensions of lot and proposed building.
The applicant for a building permit shall submit a certificate with his application which certifies that the lot which he proposes to develop is a lot of record. When the lot in question does not meet the lot width and lot area requirements of this ordinance, then the applicant shall certify that such lot was a lot of record prior to the adoption of this ordinance or is a lot which has been created through governmental taking of property.
11-4. Sign Permits. The zoning administrator shall receive applications for the construction of signs, as required by this ordinance. Such applications shall follow the same forms as required for building permits, and shall contain information required by this ordinance in section 10. The zoning administrator shall process such sign applications and shall issue sign permits and sign permit numbers for proposed signs which comply with the requirements of this ordinance. All sign permits affected by the Georgia Outdoor Advertising Act shall not be issued local permits until the applicant has provided local staff with a Georgia Department of Transportation approved sign and location permit.
11-5. Penalties for Violation. In case any building or structure is erected, constructed, reconstructed, demolished, altered, repaired, moved, converted or maintained, or land is used in violation of this ordinance, the offender shall be guilty and upon conviction thereof be fined no more than $100.00 or imprisoned for not more than 30 days, or both, for each offense. Each day of continued violation shall be considered a separate offense.
11-6. Remedies. In case any building or structure is or is proposed to be erected, constructed, reconstructed, altered, converted or maintained, or any building, structure or land is or is proposed to be used in violation of these regulations, the zoning administrator, city attorney, or other appropriate city authority or any adjacent or neighboring property owner or occupant who would be damaged by such violation may, in addition to other remedies, institute injunction, mandamus, or other appropriate action or proceedings to prevent such unlawful erection, construction, reconstruction, alteration, conversion, maintenance or use; or to correct or abate such violation, or to prevent the occupancy of said building, structure or land.
11-7. Complaints Regarding Violations. When a violation of this resolution occurs, or is alleged to have occurred, any person may file a written complaint. Such complaint shall state fully the causes and basis thereof and shall be filed with the zoning administrator. He shall record properly such complaint, investigate within 30 days and take action thereon as provided in these regulations.
11-8. Cancellation of Permits. A demolition, building, or sign permit shall be canceled by the zoning administrator when the method of demolition, construction or use violates any provision contained in these regulations, or any state or local ordinance or resolution. Upon such cancellation, any further work upon the demolition, construction, alteration or repair on said building or structure; and any further use of said building or structure or land shall be deemed a violation. Each and every day such unlawful demolition, construction, alteration or repair on said building or structure, or further use of said building or structure or land continues, shall be deemed a separate offense.
11-9. Certificate of Occupancy. Certificate of occupancy shall be issued by the zoning administrator in accordance with the following provisions:
11-9.1. Certificate of occupancy required. A certificate of occupancy issued by the zoning administrator is required in advance of occupancy or use of:
a.
A building hereafter erected.
b.
A building hereafter altered so as to affect height, the side, front or rear yard.
c.
Any building or premises where a change in the type of use will occur.
11-9.2. Issuance of certificate of occupancy. Upon payment of all required fees, the zoning administrator shall sign and issue a certificate of occupancy if the proposed use of land or building is found to conform to the applicable provisions of this ordinance, and if the building, as finally constructed, substantially complies with the sketch or plan submitted and approved for the building permit. One copy of all certificates of occupancy issued which contain a statement of the intended use of the applicable property and other pertinent information, signed by the owner or his agent, shall be kept on file in the office of the zoning administrator.
11-9.3. Denial of certificate of occupancy. A certificate of occupancy shall not be issued unless the proposed use of a building or land conforms to the applicable provisions of this ordinance and substantially complies with the sketches or plans submitted for obtaining the building permit.
11-10. Reason for Denial of Permit. When a permit is denied, the zoning administrator shall provide in writing, upon request of the applicant for a permit, his reasons for denying the permit within ten days after said request.
11-11. Permits and Licenses Void When Issued in Conflict. Any permit or license issued in conflict with the provisions of this ordinance shall be null and void.
11-12. Appeals. Appeals from the decisions of the zoning administrator with regard to interpretation, administration and enforcement shall be made to the board of zoning appeals in accordance with the provisions of section 12.
Cross reference— Administration, ch. 2.
Section 12. - Board of appeals.
12-1. Membership.
12-1.1. Membership and appointment. The Ashburn Board of Zoning Appeals, hereinafter referred to as the "board," shall consist of three members residing within Ashburn, Georgia. The members shall be appointed by the Mayor and Council of Ashburn, Georgia. None of the board members shall hold any other public office, except that one member may also be a member of the planning commission. Board members may be removable for cause, upon written charges, and after public hearing. Any member of the board shall be disqualified to act upon a matter before the board with respect to property in which the member has an interest.
12-1.2. Term of office. The term of office for each member of the board shall be for five years; however, in the appointment of the first board, one member shall be appointed for one year, one of the members shall be appointed for three years and one for five years. Any vacancy in the membership shall be filled for the unexpired term in the same manner as the initial appointment. If one appointee is from the planning commission and he ceases to be a member of said planning commission during the term of his appointment to the board, his membership on the board shall terminate and the governing authority may name a member of said planning commission to fill the unexpired term of its original appointee.
12-1.3. Compensation. The board members shall receive no compensation for their service except that they may be reimbursed for out-of-pocket expenditures made in connection with their duties.
12-2. Rules and procedures. The board shall elect one of its members as chairman, who shall serve for one year or until he is re-elected or his successor is elected. The board of appeals shall appoint a secretary who may be an officer of Ashburn, Georgia, or of the planning commission. The board shall have authority to adopt rules of procedure. Meetings of the board shall be held at the call of the chairman and at such other times as said board may determine. The chairman, or in his absence the acting chairman, may administer oaths and compel the attendance of witnesses by subpoena. The board shall keep minutes of its proceedings, showing the vote of each member upon each question, or if absent or failing to vote, indicating such fact, and shall keep records of its examinations and other official actions, all of which shall be immediately filed in the office of said board and shall be a public record. The decisions of the board shall be by resolution, which resolution shall contain a statement of the grounds of its decision or action. The full text of the resolution shall be sent to the appellant. No appeal requesting the same relief in regard to the same property shall be received or heard by the board for a period of 12 months following the date of said resolution, except that this limitation shall not affect the right of said board to grant a rehearing if provided in the rules of procedure adopted by said board.
12-3. Administrative Assistance. The city council may provide such technical, administrative, and clerical assistance as is needed by the board to carry out its function under the provisions of these regulations.
12-4. Appeals.
12-4.1. Who may appeal. Appeals to the board may be taken by any person aggrieved or by any officer, department, board, or bureau of the governing authority affected by any decision of the zoning administrator. Such appeals shall be filed no later than 30 days after the date of notification of the decision appealed from by filing with the zoning administrator, and with the board, a notice of appeal specifying the grounds thereof. The zoning administrator shall forthwith transmit to the board all the papers constituting the record upon which the action appealed from was taken.
12-4.2. Legal proceedings stayed. An appeal stays all legal proceedings in furtherance of the action appealed from, unless the zoning administrator certifies to the board after the notice of appeal shall have been filed with him, that by reason of facts stated in the certificate a stay would, in his opinion, cause imminent peril to life and property. In such case, proceedings shall not be stayed otherwise than by a restraining order which may be granted by the board or by a court of record on application, on notice to the zoning administrator, and on due cause shown.
12-4.3. Presentation of evidence. The appellant, and any public agency or private individual shall be entitled to present evidence on matters before the board, and said board may request technical service, advice, data, or factual evidence from the planning commission and the governing authority for assistance in reaching decisions.
12-4.4. Extent of board of appeals' power. The board may, in conformity with the provisions of these regulations, reverse or affirm, wholly or partly, or may modify the order, requirement, decision, or determination of the zoning administrator, and to that end shall have all the powers of the zoning administrator. The board may direct the issuance of a permit. It shall be the duty of the zoning administrator to carry out the decisions of the board.
12-5. Public Hearing.
12-5.1. Notice of hearing shall be given. Before making its decision on an administrative appeal, request for a special exception, request for a variance, or any other matter within the board's authority, said board shall hold a public hearing thereon. At least 15 days' notice of the time and place of such hearing shall be sent to the appellant or petitioner, to the planning commission, the zoning administrator, and to the owners of all properties either adjoining the property with which the hearing is concerned or situated directly across a public right-of-way from said property. Such notice shall contain the name of the appellant or petitioner, the date, time, and place set for the hearing, and a brief statement of the nature of the hearing.
12-5.2. Public notice in newspaper. The board shall give a public notice of the hearing in a newspaper published and circulated in Ashburn, Georgia, by advertisement published at least 15 days prior to the date of the public hearing.
12-5.3. Who may appear. Any party may appear at the public hearing in person or by agent or by attorney.
12-5.4. Time limit on board's decision. The board shall reach a decision following a public hearing.
12-6. Powers and Duties.
12-6.1. Appeals from actions of the zoning administrator. The board shall hear and decide upon appeals where it is alleged there is error in any order, requirement, decision or determination made by the zoning administrator in the enforcement of these regulations.
12-6.2A. Special exception. The board shall hear and decide upon special exceptions as authorized by section 5, "Schedule of Permitted Uses" (see section 12-5.1), of this ordinance. The application to establish such use shall be approved on a finding by the board of appeals that:
a.
The proposed use will not be contrary to the purpose of this ordinance.
b.
The proposed use will not be detrimental to the use or development of adjacent properties or the general neighborhood nor affect adversely the health and safety of residents and workers.
c.
The proposed use will not constitute a nuisance or hazard because of the number of persons who will attend or use such facility, vehicular movement, noise or fumes generation, or type of physical activity.
d.
The proposed use will not be affected adversely by the existing uses of adjacent properties; and the proposed use will be placed on a lot of sufficient size to satisfy the space requirements of said use.
e.
The parking and all development standards set forth for each particular use for which a permit may be granted will be met.
f.
Provided, that the board of appeals may impose or require such additional restrictions and standards (i.e., increased setbacks, buffer strips, screening, etc.) as may be necessary to protect the health and safety of workers and residents in the community, and to protect the value and use of property in the general neighborhood.
12-6.2B. Conditions of special exception. Special exceptions approved by the board may be terminated upon notice and action by the board at any time subsequent to the approval thereof by the board in the event that the owner of the property subject thereto fails to satisfy and maintain the existence of any of the following, conditions subsequent:
a.
Execute or establish use of the special exception use approved by the board within 12 months from the date of approval thereof by the board or within such other term as the board shall specifically designate therefor in which case the applicant must execute or establish such use within the term so designated by the board;
b.
Maintain the special exception use of the property subject thereto in accordance with the approved special exception continuously following establishment of the special exception use without interruption exceeding one year in duration;
c.
Maintain continuous compliance with any and all restrictions, standards or requirements which may be imposed by the board in connection with the approval of such special exception; or
d.
Maintain continuous compliance with the requirements of section 8, "Nonconformance," to the extent that such section may be applicable.
12-6.2C. Limitations on special exceptions. Special exceptions granted for home occupations shall automatically terminate upon any change in occupancy of the subject property and shall not be transferable.
12-6.2D. Termination of special exceptions. Upon determination by the board upon application of any interested party that (1) the owner of the property subject to a special exception is not in compliance with the terms of the zoning ordinance or (2) the owner of the property subject to a special exception has not complied with any of the conditions subsequent specified in subsections 12-6.2B (a), (b), (c) thereof or (3) the owner of the property subject to a special exception has failed to comply with any restriction or standard imposed by the board under section 12-6.2A(f), then in any such event the board may rescind and revoke a special exception after giving due notice to all parties at interest and following a public hearing thereon.
12-6.2E. Applications for special exceptions. Applications for a special exception shall be accepted from the owners of the property or the authorized agent of the owners.
12-6.3. Request for a variance. The board may authorize upon appeal in specific cases such variance from the terms of these regulations as will not be contrary to the public interest where, owing to special conditions, a literal enforcement of provisions of these regulations will, in an individual case, result in unnecessary hardship, so that the spirit of these regulations shall be observed, public safety and welfare secured, and substantial justice done. Provided, however, that a variance shall not be granted for a use of land or building or structure that is prohibited by this resolution in the district in question. Such variance may be granted in an individual case upon finding by the board that all of the following exist:
a.
There are extraordinary and exceptional conditions pertaining to the particular piece of property in question because of its size, shape or topography; and
b.
The application of these regulations to this particular piece of property would create an unnecessary hardship; and
c.
Such conditions are peculiar to the particular piece of property involved; and
d.
Relief, if granted, would not cause substantial detriment to the public good or impair the purposes and intent of these regulations; provided that no variance may be granted by a use of land, building or structure that is prohibited by this ordinance. Applications for use variances shall not be accepted by the zoning administrator. Such requests shall be properly filed as requests for rezoning, the authority for such rezoning of property being solely reserved for the Ashburn City Council.
e.
Provided that the board of appeals may impose or require such additional restrictions and standards (i.e., increased setbacks, buffer strips, screening, etc.) as may be necessary to protect the health and safety of residents and workers in the community, and to protect the value and use of property in the general neighborhood. Provided, that whenever the board of appeals shall find, in the case of any permit granted pursuant to the provisions of these regulations that any of the terms, conditions or restrictions upon which such permit was granted are not being complied with, said board shall rescind and revoke such permit after giving due notice to all parties concerned and granting full opportunity for a public hearing.
12-6.4. Request for extension of nonconforming residential uses. The board may authorize upon appeal in specific cases an extension or replacement of an existing nonconforming residential use which the board is specifically authorized to pass on under the terms of this resolution. Said extension may be granted in an individual case upon finding by the board that:
a.
The use is a nonconforming use as defined in these regulations; and
b.
The use is in full compliance with all requirements of these regulations applicable to nonconforming uses; and
c.
The extension of said use will not further injure a permitted use on adjacent property in the same district.
d.
This section is specifically designed to allow for the replacement of homeowner occupied residential units in areas no longer zoned for residential uses. As such, this provision is not subject to the limits of section 8-5.
12-7. Forms. Appeals from actions of the zoning administrator, requests for permission to establish a use requiring special exception approval, requests for variances, and requests for extension of a nonconforming residential use shall be made on forms provided for such purposes. All information required on said forms shall be provided by the applicant. Forms shall be filed with the zoning administrator, and the applicant shall pay the City of Ashburn for expenses incidental to the appeal. No form shall be accepted by the zoning administrator unless it contains all pertinent information and is accompanied by the required fee of $100.00 to defray expenses.
Cross reference— Administration, ch. 2; planning, ch. 66.
Section 13. - Amendment.
13-1. General Conditions. These regulations, including the zoning map, may be amended by the mayor and council on their own motion, on petition by the property owner or his duly authorized agent, or on recommendation of the planning commission, but no amendment shall become effective unless it shall have been proposed by or shall first have been submitted to the planning commission for review and recommendation. Before enacting an amendment to these regulations, the governing authority shall give public notice and hold a public hearing thereon as set forth in this section.
13-2. Application for Amendment.
13-2.1. General. Applications for amendment of these regulations may be in the form of proposals for amendment of the text of these regulations or proposals for amendment of the zoning map. Applications for amendment shall be submitted to the zoning administrator and shall include a fee of $150.00, payable to the City of Ashburn, to defray expenses. No application for a zoning change affecting the same parcel of property or part thereof shall be accepted by the zoning administrator until the expiration of at least six months immediately following the defeat of the rezoning request by the Ashburn City Council.
13-2.2. Signature of applicant required. All applications shall be signed by the applicant, and shall state his name and address.
13-2.3. Application for text amendment. In the case of a text amendment, the application shall set forth the new text to be added and the existing text to be deleted.
13-2.4. Application for map amendment. An application for a map amendment shall include the following information:
a.
The community or area in which is located the land proposed to be reclassified and the street number, if any, or if none, the location with respect to the nearby public roads in common use;
b.
A plat prepared by a registered land surveyor of the land in question, and a description by metes and bounds, bearings and distances of the land, or if the boundaries conform to the lot boundaries within a subdivision for which a plat is recorded in the land records of the county, then the lot, block and subdivision designations with appropriate plat reference;
c.
The present zoning classification and the classification proposed for such land;
d.
The name and address of the owners of the land;
e.
The area of the land proposed to be reclassified stated in square feet if less than one acre, and in acres if one or more;
f.
The application number, date of application and action taken on all prior applications filed for the reclassification of the whole or part of the land proposed to be reclassified;
g.
If applicant has made, within two years immediately preceding the filing of the applicant's application for a map amendment, campaign contributions aggregating $250.00 or more to any member of the Ashburn City Council or any member of the Ashburn Planning Commission, it shall be the duty of the applicant and the attorney representing the applicant to disclose the following in the application:
1.
The name of the local government official to whom the campaign contribution or gift was made;
2.
The dollar amount of each campaign contribution made by the applicant to the local government official during the two years immediately preceding the filing of the application for the map amendment and the date of each contribution;
3.
An enumeration and description of each gift having a value of $250.00 or more made by the applicant to the local government official during the two years immediately preceding the filing of the application for the map amendment; and
4.
In the event that no such gift or contributions were made, the application shall affirmatively so state.
13-2.5. Referral to planning commission. Within five days after the routine monthly application acceptance deadline, the zoning administrator shall transmit two copies of the rezoning application to the planning commission for its review and recommendation. The planning commission shall have 30 days within which to submit its report to the mayor and council. If the planning commission fails to submit a report within 30 days, it shall be deemed to have recommended approval of the requested amendment.
13-2.6. a.
Posting of property. Not less than 15 days prior to the date set for the public hearing on any application for a map amendment (other than a map amendment initiated by the planning commission or the city council), the zoning administrator shall erect a sign on the land proposed to be reclassified. Such sign shall be erected by the zoning administrator within ten feet of whatever boundary line of such land abuts the most traveled public road; and, if no public road abuts thereon, then such sign shall be erected to face in such a manner as may be most readily seen by the public. The sign shall show the application number, the present zoning classification, the proposed zoning classification, the scheduled date, time, and place of public hearing, and the telephone number to call for further information. If the land sought to be reclassified lies within more than one block as shown on a plat recorded in the land records of the county, then a sign shall be erected on the land in each such block.
b.
Removal of sign. Any such sign shall be maintained at all times by the zoning administrator until a decision on the application has been made by the mayor and council.
13-2.7. Policies and procedures governing the calling and conducting of public hearings on zoning decisions.
a.
Hearing called. Before taking action on a proposed amendment, the city council shall hold a public hearing thereon. At least 15 but not more than 45 days notice of the time, place, and purpose of said hearing shall be published in a newspaper of general circulation within the City of Ashburn, Georgia. Such notice shall also state the application number, and shall contain a summary of the proposed amendment, if a text amendment, and in the case of a map amendment, the location of the property, its area, the name of the owner or their authorized agent, and the present and proposed zoning classification for the property affected.
Further, such advertisement shall advise the public pursuant to O.C.G.A. § 36-67A-3 that any opponent of a proposed rezoning action who has made campaign contributions aggregating $250.00 or more to a local government official of the local government which will consider the application within two years of the date of the application shall be required to file a disclosure with the governing authority of the respective local government showing (1) the name and official position of the local government official to whom campaign contributions were made; and (2) the dollar amount and description of each campaign contribution made by the opponent to the local government official during the five years immediately preceding the filing of the application for the proposed rezoning action and the date of each contribution. Such disclosure shall be required to be filed at least five calendar days prior to the scheduled hearing.
b.
Notice to interested parties. A notice shall be given to the applicant of the date, time, and place of the public hearing. All application files shall be placed in the custody of the zoning administrator and be open to public inspection during regular office hours.
c.
Public hearing procedure. All public hearings on zoning matters shall be placed on the city council agenda under a section entitled "Public Hearings." The mayor, or his designee, shall officially declare the public hearing open and shall note that the City of Ashburn's written Public Hearing Procedures, City of Ashburn's Standards for Exercise of Zoning Powers, and a copy of Georgia's Conflict of Interest Law are available to the attending public as a handout and are posted for public review.
The zoning administrator and/or designee shall then announce the matter for consideration. The mayor shall then call for acknowledgement of a potential conflict of interest by members of the council. The zoning administrator will then report the staff recommendation and the recommendation of the Ashburn Planning Commission. The mayor shall then allow public input. General procedures to be followed will require citizen comments to be heard in an orderly fashion. Citizens speaking in favor of the request shall be heard first, followed by those opposed to the issue. All speakers will be asked to provide his or her name and address for the public record. Citizens are requested to keep their comments as brief as possible so that all who wish to be heard will have adequate time. Where there is a large number of citizens wishing to testify at a given hearing, the presiding officer may invoke reasonable time limitations on both the proponents and opponents of a request. In such cases, these time limits shall apply to both sides of an issue equally. Citizens shall address their comments to the city council as a whole. Individual attacks or cross examination of council members, city employees or other citizens will be ruled out of order. The city council retains the privilege to ask any questions of staff or any citizen present for clarification.
After all citizen comments have been received, all further discussion of the specific application is reserved for the city council. The mayor shall then declare the public hearing closed and no further public comment will be entertained. The city council will then render a decision on the application. Decisions may include approval, denial or tabling of the decision to a time, place and date specific. IN THE CASE OF TABLING OF A MATTER, NO FURTHER PUBLIC COMMENT WILL BE ENTERTAINED UPON FURTHER CONSIDERATION OF THE MATTER.
When, in the opinion of the city council, the official public hearing has brought forth substantial new evidence or testimony not available to the Ashburn Planning Commission at the time of their review of a zoning matter, or should the city council desire to request further study by the planning commission of a particular aspect of an application, it shall be the policy of the council to table the issue and request that the planning commission restudy the issue and affirm or amend its recommendation, which action shall be reported to the city council prior to making a final decision.
d.
Standards for exercise of zoning powers. In order to promote the public health, safety, and general welfare of the City of Ashburn and the residents thereof against the unrestricted use of property, the following standards, and any other factors relevant to balancing the above stated public interest shall be considered by the city council in making any zoning decision:
1.
The existing land use pattern;
2.
The possible creation of an isolated district unrelated to adjacent and nearby districts;
3.
The existing population density pattern and the possible increase or overtaxing of the load on public facilities;
4.
Whether changed or changing conditions make the passage of the proposed amendment reasonable;
5.
Whether the proposed change will adversely influence existing conditions in the neighborhood or the community at large;
6.
Potential impact on the environment, including but not limited to drainage, soil erosion, and sedimentation, flooding, air quality, and water quality and quantity;
7.
The reasonableness of the costs required of the public in providing, improving, increasing or maintaining public utilities, schools, streets and public safety necessities when considering the proposed change;
8.
Whether the proposed change will be detrimental to the value, improvement, or development of adjacent or nearby property in accordance with existing regulations;
9.
Whether the proposed change is out of scale with the needs of the neighborhood or the City of Ashburn;
10.
Whether the proposed change will constitute a grant of special privilege to the individual owner as contrasted with the adjacent or nearby neighborhood or with the general public; and
11.
The extent to which the zoning decision is consistent with the adopted comprehensive plan, as amended.
e.
Public hearings records standards. The city clerk shall mechanically record the proceedings of all zoning public hearings. If requested by any party, verbatim transcripts of the public hearing can be prepared, but only if requested and purchased in advance by the requesting party, who must arrange at his expense for a certified court reporter to record and transcribe the hearing and furnish the original of the transcript to the city council for its records. The record of the public hearing and all evidence (e.g., maps, drawings, traffic studies, etc.) submitted at the public hearing shall be noted as such and shall become a permanent part of the particular zoning amendment's file.
Section 14. - Duties of zoning administrator, board of appeals, city council and courts on matters of appeal.
14-1. Zoning Administrator. It is the intent of these regulations that the zoning administrator be chiefly responsible, with due assistance from the city attorney, for all questions of interpretation of these regulations. The zoning administrator shall also be responsible for the enforcement of these regulations.
14-2. Board of Appeals. The board of appeals shall review questions on interpretation only on appeal from the decision of the zoning administrator, and recourse from all decisions of the board shall be to the courts as provided by law.
14-3. City Council. It is further the intent of these regulations that the duties of the city council shall be to adopt or reject proposed amendments to these regulations as detailed in section 13. Matters of nonenforcement of this ordinance may be brought to the city council's attention by aggrieved parties only after the aggrieved party has followed the complaint procedure outlined in section 11-7. Corrections to problems of nonenforcement shall be handled by the mayor and council through the city manager. Recourse from all decisions of the mayor and council shall be to the courts as provided by law.
Section 15. - Penalties for violations.
(a)
All signs shall be maintained in good condition so as to present a neat and orderly appearance, and in compliance with all of the provisions of this ordinance. The city may, after due notice, issue a citation to any permittee for any sign which fails to comply with the provisions of this ordinance, and/or which shows gross neglect or becomes dilapidated. Such due notice shall be in writing, shall specify the sign and location, and shall state the violation which is alleged to have occurred, and/or that the sign has not been properly maintained. The city shall give the permittee ten days to rectify the violation and/or the condition or remove the sign before issuing a citation.
(b)
The city may issue a citation for violation of this article [ordinance] by any sign erected, altered, converted, or used in violation of this article [ordinance].
(c)
Any person violating any provision of this article [ordinance] shall be liable for a fine of $150.00 for each violation. Each day a sign is posted in violation of this article [ordinance] shall constitute a separate violation.
(Ord. No. 2011-05, § 1, 4-7-2011)
Section 16. - Wireless telecommunication towers.
16-1. Intent. The intent of this section is to establish guidelines for the siting of all wireless, cellular, television and radio telecommunications towers and antennas. The goals of this article are to:
a.
Encourage the location of towers in nonresidential areas;
b.
Minimize the total number of towers within the community necessary to provide adequate personal wireless services to residents of the city;
c.
Encourage the joint use of new and existing tower sites among service providers;
d.
Locate telecommunications towers and antennas in areas where adverse impacts on the community are minimized;
e.
Encourage design and construction of towers and antennas to minimize adverse visual impacts; and
f.
Enhance the ability of the providers of telecommunications services to deliver such services to the community effectively and efficiently.
16-2. Application of section.
a.
District height limitations. Except as set forth in subsection c. of this section, the requirements of this section shall govern the location of telecommunications towers that exceed, and antennas that are installed at a height in excess of, 50 feet.
b.
Governmental exemption. The provisions of this article shall not apply to governmental facilities and structures.
c.
Pre-existing towers and antennas. Any tower or antenna for which a permit has been properly issued prior to the effective date of the ordinance from which this section is derived shall not be required to meet the provisions of this section, other than the requirements of section 16-3. Any such towers or antennas shall be referred to in this article as "pre-existing towers" or "pre-existing antennas."
d.
Additional antennas. If an additional antenna is co-located upon a pre-existing tower after adoption of this section, then fencing, color and landscaping requires of section 16-4 shall be met as part of the permitting process.
16-3. Annual registration of telecommunications towers.
a.
On or before May 1 of each calendar year, the owner of any telecommunications tower shall register such tower with the city clerk on a form provided by the clerk. The initial annual registration shall identify such telecommunications tower by tax parcel number physical street address, and/or GIS coordinates, and shall describe all structures and equipment on site associated with such telecommunications tower. Annually thereafter, each subsequent registration shall identify any transfer of ownership of such tower, and/or any modifications to such tower which occurred during the preceding calendar year.
b.
For all telecommunications towers which were constructed more than ten years prior to the submittal of the annual registration, at least once every three years the owner of such tower shall submit certification to the clerk that such tower was inspected and that a registered professional engineer has determined that no signs of defect, disrepair, or other hazardous condition exist.
c.
The annual registration fee for each telecommunications tower shall be $100.00 for the first registration year and $50.00 per tower per year thereafter.
d.
The city clerk shall maintain an inventory of all towers or alternative tower structures, active and inactive, which are present in the city. This inventory shall include specific information about the location (latitude and longitude coordinates), height, design, tower type and general suitability for antenna co-location of each tower, and other pertinent information as may be decided by the department.
16-4. General provisions. The following requirements apply to all wireless telecommunications facilities regardless of the zoning district in which they are to be located. These general standards are to be supplemented with the specific regulations for each zoning district found in the following sections.
a.
When the proposed wireless telecommunications facility is to include a new tower, a plot plan at a scale of not less than one inch is equal to 100 feet shall be submitted. This plot plan shall indicate all building uses within 300 feet of the proposed facility. Aerial photos and/or renderings may augment the plot plan.
b.
The location of the tower and equipment shelter shall comply with all natural resource protection standards established in the Zoning Code, including those for floodplain, wetlands, and steep slopes.
c.
Security fencing eight feet in height shall surround the tower, equipment shelter and any guy wires, either completely or individually as determined by the city council.
d.
The following buffer plantings may be located around the perimeter of the security fence as deemed appropriate by the city council.
(1)
An evergreen screen shall be planted that consists of either a hedge, planted three feet on center maximum, or a row of evergreen trees planted five feet on center maximum.
e.
Existing vegetation (trees and shrubs) shall be preserved to the maximum extent possible.
f.
No new tower, except amateur radio towers, shall be permitted unless the applicant demonstrates to the satisfaction of the department and city council that no existing tower or existing alternative tower structure can accommodate the applicant's proposed antenna. All evidence submitted shall be signed and sealed by appropriate licensed professionals or qualified industry experts and shall consist of more than mere conclusory statements that no existing tower is suitable. Evidence submitted to demonstrate that no existing tower or structure can accommodate the proposed antenna shall consist of one or more of the following:
(1)
That no existing towers or suitable alternative tower structures are located within the geographic antenna placement area required to meet the applicant's engineering requirements.
(2)
That existing towers or structures do not have sufficient structural strength to support the applicant's antenna and related equipment.
(3)
That the applicant's proposed antenna(s) would cause electromagnetic interference with the antenna(s) on the existing towers or structures, or the antenna on the existing towers or structures would cause interference with the applicant's proposed antenna.
(4)
That the cost or contractual provisions required by the tower owner to share an existing tower or structure or to adapt an existing tower or structure for sharing are unreasonable. Costs exceeding new tower development are presumed to be unreasonable.
(5)
That the applicant adequately demonstrates that there are other limiting factors that render existing towers and structures unsuitable.
g.
Any application to locate an antenna on a building or structure that is listed on an historic register, or is in a historic district shall be subject to review by the municipality's architectural review board, building commissioner, and/or city council if there is no such review board or officer.
h.
The tower shall be painted a non-contrasting gray or similar color minimizing its visibility, unless otherwise required by the Federal Communications Commission (FCC) or Federal Aviation Administration (FAA). Towers or antennas shall maintain either a galvanized steel or concrete finish or, subject to any applicable standards of the FAA and FCC, be painted a neutral color so as to reduce visual obtrusiveness. At all tower sites, the design of all buildings and related structures shall use materials, colors, textures, screening, and landscaping that will blend the tower facilities to the natural setting and building environment.
i.
No advertising is permitted anywhere on the facility, with the exception of identification signage.
j.
All providers utilizing towers shall present a report to the city clerk notifying them of any tower facility locate in the municipality whose use will be discontinued and the date this use will cease. If at any time the use of the facility is discontinued for 180 days, a designated local official may declare the facility abandoned. (This excludes any dormancy period between construction and the initial use of the facility.) The facility's owner/operator will receive written notice from the city clerk and will be instructed to either reactivate the facility's use within 180 days, or dismantle and remove the facility. If reactivation or dismantling does not occur, the municipality will remove or will contract to have removed the facility and assess the owner/operator the costs.
k.
No tower under 150 feet shall be artificially lighted except to assure safety or as required by the FAA. Any tower between 150 and 200 feet in height shall follow safety marking and obstruction lighting as prescribed by the FAA. Security lighting around the equipment shelter is permitted. If lighting is required, the governing authority may review the available lighting alternatives and approve the design that would cause the least disturbance to the surrounding views. In the event that a tower requires lighting by virtue of its height, the city may require the construction of the tower at a lower height in order to avoid lighting requirements.
l.
"No Trespassing" signs shall be posted around the facility with a telephone number of who to contact in the event of an emergency.
m.
Applicants will provide evidence of legal access to the tower site thereby maintaining this access regardless of other developments that may take place on the site.
n.
A conditional use permit must be approved by the city council with a subsequent building permit issued by the city clerk for construction of new towers in nonindustrial districts. A conditional use permit should comply with all requirements for building permits set forth in this appendix. Collocation of antennas on a single tower, antennas attached to existing structures/building, towers located in industrial districts, or replacement towers to be constructed at the site of a current tower are permitted used and will not be subject to the conditional use permitting process.
o.
Any decision to deny a request to place, construct or modify a wireless telecommunications antenna and/or tower shall be in writing and supported by evidence contained in a written record of the proceedings of the city council.
p.
Underground equipment shelters are encouraged, especially in nonindustrial districts, and may be requested by the city council.
q.
Upon the transfer of ownership of any tower, alternative tower structure, or lot upon which such a structure has been erected, the tower permittee shall notify the department of the transaction in writing within 30 days.
16-4. Nonresidential districts. Wireless telecommunications facilities proposed for the following zoning districts-general commercial, adult commercial and all industrial - are subject to the following conditions:
a.
Sole use on a lot. A wireless telecommunications facility is permitted as a sole use on a lot subject to the following for the relevant zoning district as set forth in section 6 of Appendix A.
(1)
Minimum lot size.
(2)
Minimum yard requirements.
Tower: The minimum distance to any single-family or two-family residential use or district lot line shall be 300 feet.
(3)
Maximum height.
Tower: 200 feet (includes antenna).
Equipment shelter: (maximum building height for the district).
(4)
Maximum size of equipment shelter.
Three hundred square feet for a single shelter, or, if there is more than one, 750 square feet.
B.
Combined with another use. A wireless telecommunications facility is permitted on a property with an existing use subject to the following conditions:
(1)
The existing use on the property may be any permitted use in the district or any lawful nonconforming use, and need not be affiliated with the wireless telecommunications provider. The wireless telecommunications facility will not be considered an addition to the structure or value of a nonconforming use.
(2)
The wireless telecommunications facility shall be fully automated and unattended on a daily basis, and shall be visited only for periodic and necessary maintenance (except during construction or an emergency).
(3)
Minimum lot area. The minimum lot area shall be the area needed to accommodate the tower (and guy wires, if used), the equipment shelter, security fencing and buffer planting.
(4)
Minimum yard requirements.
Tower: the minimum distance to any single-family or two-family residential use or district lot line shall be 300 feet.
Equipment shelter: shall comply with the minimum setback requirements for the primary lot.
(5)
Access. The service access to the equipment shelter shall, whenever feasible, be provided along the circulation driveways of the existing use.
(6)
Maximum height.
Tower: 200 feet (includes antenna).
Equipment shelter: (maximum building height for the district).
(7)
Maximum size of equipment shelter. Three hundred square feet for a single shelter, or, if there is more than one, 750 square feet.
c.
Combined with an existing structure. Where possible an antenna for a wireless telecommunications facility shall be attached to an existing structure or building subject to the following conditions:
(1)
Maximum height. Twenty feet or 20 percent of the building height above the existing building or structure, whichever is greater.
(2)
If the applicant proposes to locate the telecommunications equipment in a separate shelter (not located on, or attached to, the building) the shelter shall comply with the following:
(a)
The minimum setback requirements for the subject zoning district.
(b)
A buffer yard may be planted in accordance with section 16-4.d.
(c)
Vehicular access to the shelter shall not interfere with the parking or vehicular circulation on the sire for the principle use.
(d)
The maximum size of the equipment shelter shall not exceed 300 square feet, or, if there is more than one, 751 total square feet.
16-5. Residential districts, neighborhood commercial and downtown. Wireless telecommunications facilities that include towers are not permitted in residential, neighborhood commercial or downtown districts. However, antennas attached to existing buildings or structures are permitted, in applying for a permit in any residential district, the applicant must present substantial evidence as to why it is not technically feasible to locate in a more appropriate nonresidential zone. Once those efforts have been exhausted, a wireless telecommunications facility may be located in a residential district subject to the following conditions:
a.
General. The wireless telecommunications facility shall be folly automated and unattended on a daily basis, and shall be visited only for periodic and necessary maintenance. This shall apply to b., c., d., and e. below.
b.
Combined with a nonresidential use. An antenna may be attached to a nonresidential building or a structure that is a permitted use in the district; including, but not limited to, a church, a municipal or governmental building or facility, agricultural building, and a building or structure owned by a utility. The following conditions shall be met:
1.
Maximum height. Twenty feet above the existing building or structure.
2.
If the applicant proposes to locate the telecommunications equipment in a separate shelter, the shelter shall comply with the following:
(a)
The shelter shall comply with the minimum setback requirements for the subject zoning district.
(b)
The maximum size of the equipment shelter shall not exceed 300 square feet, or if there is more than one, 750 total square feet.
(c)
A buffer yard shall be planted in accordance with section 16-4.d.
(d)
Vehicular access to the shelter shall not interfere with the parking or vehicular circulation on the sire for the principal use.
c.
Located on a nonresidential-use property. A tower to support an antenna may be constructed on a property with a nonresidential use that is a permitted use within the district, including but not limited to a church, hospital, school, municipal or government building, facility or structure, agricultural use and a utility use, subject to the following conditions:
(1)
The tower shall be set back from any property line abutting a single-family or two-family residential lot by 300 feet.
(2)
Maximum height.
Tower: Two hundred feet (includes antenna).
Equipment shelter: Maximum building height for the district.
(3)
The maximum size of the equipment shelter shall not exceed 300 square feet, or if there is more than one, 750 total square feet.
(4)
Vehicular access to the tower and equipment shelter shall, whenever feasible, be provided along the circulation driveways of the existing use.
(5)
In order to locate a telecommunications facility on a property that is vacant or with an agricultural use the tract shall be at least 2.5 acres.
d.
Located on a residential building. An antenna for a wireless telecommunications facility may be attached to a mid-rise or high-rise apartment building subject to the following conditions:
(1)
Maximum height. Twenty feet above the existing building.
(2)
If the applicant proposes to locate the telecommunications equipment in a separate shelter (not located in, or attached to, the building), the shelter shall comply with the following:
(a)
The shelter shall comply with the maximum setback requirements for the subject zoning district.
(b)
The maximum size of the equipment shelter shall not exceed 300 square feet, or if there is more than one, 750 total square feet.
(c)
A buffer yard shall be planted in accordance with section 16-4.d.
(d)
Vehicular access to the shelter shall, if at all possible, use the existing circulation system.
(e)
Located in open space. A wireless telecommunications facility is permitted on land that has been established as permanent open space, or a park subject to the following conditions:
(1)
The open space shall be owned by the municipality, county or state government, a homeowners association, charitable organization, or a private, non-profit conservation organization.
(2)
Maximum height.
Tower: Two hundred feet (includes antenna).
Equipment shelter: Maximum building height for the district.
(3)
The maximum size of the equipment shelter shall not exceed 300 square feet, or, if there is more than one, 750 total square feet.
(4)
The tower shall be set back from any single-family or two-family property line 300 feet.
16-6. Criteria for a conditional use. A wireless telecommunications facility which includes a tower may be permitted as a conditional use in a multi-family residential, institutional or commercial district, or located on an institutionally-used property in any residential district. In order to be considered for review, the applicant must prove that a newly-constructed tower is necessary in that opportunities for collocation on an existing tower is not feasible. The following steps must also be taken for the application to be considered for review in this category:
a.
The applicant shall present a landscaping plan that indicates how the wireless telecommunications facility will be screened from adjoining uses.
b.
The applicant shall demonstrate that the telecommunications tower must be located where it is proposed in order to service the applicant's service area. There shall be an explanation of why a tower and this proposed site is technically necessary.
c.
Where the telecommunications facility is located on a property with another principal use, the applicant shall present documentation that the owner of the property has granted an easement or entered into a lease for the proposed facility and that the vehicular access is provided to the facility.
d.
Any applicant requesting permission to install a new tower shall provide evidence of written contact with all wireless providers who supply service within a quarter mile of the proposed facility. The applicant shall inquire about potential collocation opportunities at all technically feasible locations. The contacted providers shall be requested to respond in writing to the inquiry within 30 days. The applicant's letter(s) as well as response(s) shall be presented to the city council as a means of demonstrating the need for a new tower.
e.
The applicant shall comply with any other requirement of this article.
(Ord. No. 2018-12, § 1(Exh. A, § B), 12-6-2018)
