ARTICLE IV. - RABIES CONTROL[4]

Footnotes:
--- (4) ---
Cross reference— Health and sanitation, ch. 50.
State Law reference— Control of rabies, O.C.G.A. § 31-19-1 et seq.; animal bites, O.C.G.A. § 31-9-4; inoculation of dogs and cats against rabies, O.C.G.A. § 31-19-6; rabies inoculation tags, O.C.G.A. § 31-19-6.

Sec. 14-171. - Vaccination required.
It shall be unlawful for any person to own, keep, or harbor any canine or feline which has not been vaccinated against rabies as required by the rules and regulations established in accordance with O.C.G.A. § 31-19-5. Evidence of such vaccination shall consist of a certificate bearing the owner's name and address, number of vaccination tag issued, date of vaccination, date the animal shall be revaccinated, type and lot number of the vaccine administered, and the signature of the person administering the vaccine. The certificate shall be prepared in triplicate, the original given to the owner, the first copy filed in the office of the county board of health, and the second copy retained by the person administering the vaccine. All vaccinations shall be administered by or under the supervision of a veterinarian licensed by the state board of veterinary medical examiners to practice veterinary medicine in the state or by another person qualified under state law for that purpose.
(Ord. No. 01-04, § 4.31, 4-5-2001)
Editor's note— Formerly, § 14-86.
Sec. 14-172. - Proof of vaccination.
Animals required to be vaccinated under section 14-171 shall wear the vaccination tag issued for the current year in a clearly visible location.
(Ord. No. 01-04, § 4.32, 4-5-2001)
Editor's note— Formerly, § 14-87.
Sec. 14-173. - Display of vaccination certificate upon demand.
No person keeping or harboring an animal shall fail or refuse to exhibit a certificate of vaccination required by this chapter upon demand of the animal control officer, health department representative, sheriff, or any other city or county official.
(Ord. No. 01-04, § 4.33, 4-5-2001)
Editor's note— Formerly, § 14-88.
Sec. 14-174. - Report of animal bite required.
(a)
It shall be the duty of every person bitten by an animal to report immediately to the county health department, giving his full name, age, and address; the circumstances surrounding the bite and the extent of the bite; the medical treatment given; and the name and address of the owner or custodian of the animal.
(b)
It shall be the duty of every person owning or having custody of an animal which has bitten a human being to report the same to the county health department and confine the animal in a secure enclosure for observation and examination by the animal control officer and/or representatives of the county health department. No person having the custody or possession of such animal shall fail, refuse, or neglect to immediately notify the city, or shall fail, refuse, or neglect to allow the animal control officer and/or a representative from the county health department to make an inspection or examination of such animal for the purpose of determining whether such animal has rabies.
(c)
It shall be the duty of every physician to report immediately to the county health department the full name, age, and address of any person under his care or observation who has been bitten by an animal in the city. If no physician is in attendance and the person is a child, it shall be the duty of the parent or guardian to make such report immediately. If the person is an adult, such person shall make the report. If such person is incapacitated, the report shall be made by whoever is caring for the person bitten.
(Ord. No. 01-04, §§ 4.50—4.52, 4-5-2001)
Editor's note— Formerly, § 14-89.
Sec. 14-175. - Report of animal biting animal required.
It shall be the duty of every person having knowledge of any animal that bites another animal to report immediately to the county health department the existence and description of such animal; the owner's name, if known; the place where the biting incident occurred; a description of the bitten animal; and the name of its owner, if known.
(Ord. No. 01-04, § 4.57, 4-5-2001)
Editor's note— Formerly, § 14-90.
Sec. 14-176. - Reporting animals suspected of having rabies.
It shall be the duty of every person having knowledge of the existence of an animal apparently afflicted with rabies to report immediately to the county health department and the city the existence and description of such animal; the place where seen; the owner's name, if known; and the symptoms suggesting rabies.
(Ord. No. 01-04, § 4.53, 4-5-2001)
Editor's note— Formerly, § 14-91.
Sec. 14-177. - Reporting of suspected rabies cases by owners.
Whenever the owner or person having custody or possession of any animal shall observe or learn that such animal has shown symptoms of rabies or has acted in a manner which would lead to a reasonable suspicion that it might have rabies, such owner or person shall immediately notify the city and shall allow the animal control officer and/or a representative of the county health department to make an inspection or examination of such animal until it shall be established that such animal does or does not have rabies.
(Ord. No. 01-04, § 4.54, 4-5-2001)
Editor's note— Formerly, § 14-92.
Sec. 14-178. - Disposition of carcass of suspected rabies cases.
It shall be the duty of the owner or person having custody of any animal suspected of having rabies to surrender the carcass of the animal, or such portion of the carcass as may be requested, to the animal control officer after the death of the animal.
(Ord. No. 01-04, § 4.55, 4-5-2001)
Editor's note— Formerly, § 14-93.
Sec. 14-179. - Veterinarian to quarantine suspected rabies cases.
All veterinarians treating an animal indicating symptoms of rabies shall hold such animal in quarantine until the disposition of the animal by the animal control officer.
(Ord. No. 01-04, § 4.56, 4-5-2001)
Editor's note— Formerly, § 14-94.
Sec. 14-180. - Management of animals that scratch or bite humans.
(a)
Dogs and cats. A healthy dog or cat that bites or scratches a person or another animal should be confined and observed for ten days. This required quarantine applies to dogs and cats only. Rabies vaccine should not be administered during the observation period. While in confinement, any signs of illness should be evaluated by a licensed veterinarian. The place of confinement shall be at the veterinarian clinic or agency designated by the city as the animal shelter at the expense of the owner or person having custody of possession of the animal, the veterinarian chosen by the owner or person having the custody or possession of the animal at the owner's expense, or any other confinement location so designated and approved by the city. If symptoms suggestive of rabies are observed, the animal should be humanely killed, and a specimen should be submitted to a qualified laboratory for testing. If the animal dies during the quarantine period, the specimen should be submitted immediately for rabies testing.
(b)
Stray domestic animals and other species. Any stray or unwanted animal that bites or scratches a person or domestic animal may be humanely euthanized and a specimen submitted for testing. Animals other than dogs or cats that bite or scratch a person and are suspected of being rabid should immediately be reported to the county health department. Management of animals other than dogs and cats is dependent on the animal species, the circumstances of the bite, and the epidemiology of rabies in the area and shall be at the discretion of the animal control officer or the county health department or their authorized representative.
(c)
Livestock. Cattle, horses, mules, donkeys, goats, swine, and sheep are not likely to be carriers of rabies. Treatment will be weighed against the circumstances of exposure by the animal control officer or the county health department or their authorized representative. If at the time of exposure the animal is clinically ill with signs suggestive of rabies, the animal control officer or his authorized representative, or an authorized representative from the county health department, will immediately and humanely kill the animal and a specimen will be submitted to a qualified laboratory for testing. The cost of testing will be the responsibility of the animal owner, if known.
(Ord. No. 01-04, § 4.58, 4-5-2001)
Editor's note— Formerly, § 14-95.
Sec. 14-181. - Management of animals exposed to rabies.
(a)
Generally. Any animal bitten or scratched by a bat or wild carnivorous mammal (particularly bobcat, raccoon, fox, skunk, or coyote) which is not available for testing should be considered exposed to rabies.
(b)
Unvaccinated dogs and cats exposed to rabies. Unvaccinated or unwanted dogs and cats bitten or scratched by a known or potentially rabid animal should be humanely euthanized immediately. If the owner of the animal is unwilling to have this done (upon approval of the department head of the county health department and the city) the exposed animal must be placed in strict isolation for six months and vaccinated one month prior to being released. The responsibility for isolation of an exposed unvaccinated animal remains with the owner. The animal must be kept in a pen that has been built to the specifications of the state rabies control manual, appendix C, and approved by the department head of the county health department and the city. Additionally, a second fence 18 to 24 inches in distance from the inner pen must be erected around the perimeter to guarantee complete isolation of the quarantined animal from other animals and human contact. The total construction cost of this confinement area is the sole responsibility of the pet owner. Previously vaccinated dogs and cats whose rabies vaccination has lapsed for more than 30 days are considered unvaccinated and will be treated as such.
(c)
Vaccinated dogs and cats exposed to rabies. Dogs and cats that are currently vaccinated (vaccinated at least one month prior to exposure) should be revaccinated immediately, confined, and observed for 45 days. Confinement must be coordinated with and approved by the county health department.
(d)
Livestock exposed to rabies. Vaccinated livestock (vaccinated by a licensed veterinarian with a USDA approved vaccine for that species at least 30 days prior to the attack) bitten by a rabid animal should be revaccinated immediately, confined, and observed for 45 days. Confinement must be coordinated with and approved by the county health department.
(e)
Other animals exposed to rabies. Unvaccinated animals bitten by a rabid animal should be euthanized immediately. If an animal has been vaccinated with a USDA approved vaccine for that species, the animal must be revaccinated immediately and placed in confinement for a minimum of 90 days. Confinement must be coordinated with and approved by the county health department.
(Ord. No. 01-04, § 4.59, 4-5-2001)
Editor's note— Formerly, § 14-96.
Sec. 14-182. - Quarantine of area of city.
Whenever in the judgment of the city council, after consultation with the county health department, the public health and safety so require, the council shall declare and establish a quarantine zone or area consisting of the whole or any part of the city and maintain such quarantine therein until such time as they may deem it advisable to lift the same. During the existence of such quarantine, it shall be unlawful for any person to violate any of the rules and regulations prescribed by the city council with reference to such quarantine.
(Ord. No. 01-04, § 4.60, 4-5-2001)
Editor's note— Formerly, § 14-97.
Sec. 14-183. - Retention of animals suspected of having rabies.
(a)
If the animal control officer or poundkeeper operating a pound for the city suspects that any animal impounded has rabies, he shall notify the county animal control department. A qualified veterinarian shall examine such animal and if the veterinarian believes such animal should be held for future observation, the veterinarian shall so inform the animal control officer.
(b)
If an animal is found to be afflicted with rabies, the animal control officer or agency operating the pound for the city shall confine the animal as directed.
(c)
If an animal does not have rabies, the animal control officer or agency operating a pound for the city shall release it or dispose of it in the manner prescribed in this chapter.
(Ord. No. 01-04, § 4.61, 4-5-2001)
Editor's note— Formerly, § 14-98.
Sec. 14-184. - Animal exposed to rabies barred from city.
No person shall bring any animal into the city in which rabies has been present within six months prior thereto.
(Ord. No. 01-04, § 4.62, 4-5-2001)
Editor's note— Formerly, § 14-99.
Secs. 14-185—14-200. - Reserved.
