ARTICLE VI. - MEASUREMENTS, LANGUAGE, AND DEFINITIONS[16]
Footnotes:
--- (16) ---
Editor's note— Section 1 of Ord. No. 2015-01-04, adopted Jan. 26, 2015, redesignated former art. IV, "Terminology," §§ 16-266—16-275, as a new art. VI, §§ 16-281—16-290, to read as herein set out.

DIVISION 1. - RULES OF LANGUAGE AND INTERPRETATION

Sec. 16-281. - Meanings and intent.
The language of these land development regulations must be read literally. Regulations are no more or less strict than stated. Words and terms expressly defined in these land development regulations have the specific meanings assigned, unless the context clearly indicates another meaning. Words that are not expressly defined in these land development regulations have the meaning given in the latest edition of Merriam-Webster's Unabridged Dictionary.
(Ord. No. 2013-10-14, 1(Exh. A § 16-17.10), 10-14-2013; Ord. No. 2015-01-04, § 1, 1-26-2015)
Sec. 16-282. - Tenses and usage.
(a)
Words used in the singular include the plural. The reverse is also true.
(b)
Words used in the present tense include the future tense. The reverse is also true.
(c)
The words "must," "will," "shall" and "may not" are mandatory.
(d)
The word "may" is permissive, and "should" is advisory, not mandatory or required.
(e)
When used with numbers, "up to x," "not more than x" and "a maximum of x" all include "x."
(f)
The word "lot" includes the word "plot."
(g)
The word "used" is deemed to also include "designed, intended or arranged to be used."
(h)
The word "erected" is deemed to also include "constructed," "reconstructed," "altered," "placed," "relocated" or "removed."
(i)
The terms "land use" and "use of land" are deemed to also include "building use" and "use of building."
(Ord. No. 2013-10-14, 1(Exh. A § 16-17.20), 10-14-2013; Ord. No. 2015-01-04, § 1, 1-26-2015)
Sec. 16-283. - Conjunctions.
Unless the context otherwise clearly indicates, conjunctions have the following meanings:
(1)
"And" indicates that all connected items or provisions apply; and
(2)
"Or" indicates that the connected items or provisions may apply singularly or in combination.
(Ord. No. 2013-10-14, 1(Exh. A § 16-17.30), 10-14-2013; Ord. No. 2015-01-04, § 1, 1-26-2015)
Sec. 16-284. - Computation of time.
(a)
References to "days" are to calendar days unless otherwise expressly stated. References to "business days" are references to regular city government working days, excluding Saturdays, Sundays and holidays observed by the city.
(b)
The time in which an act is to be completed is computed by excluding the first day and including the last day. If the last day is a Saturday, Sunday or holiday observed by the city, that day is excluded.
(c)
A day concludes at the close of business of city hall, and any materials received after that time will be considered to have been received the following day.
(Ord. No. 2013-10-14, 1(Exh. A § 16-17.40), 10-14-2013; Ord. No. 2015-01-04, § 1, 1-26-2015)
Sec. 16-285. - Headings and illustrations.
Headings and illustrations are provided for convenience and reference only and do not define or limit the scope of any provision of these land development regulations. In case of any difference of meaning or implication between the text of these land development regulations and any heading, drawing, table, figure or illustration, the text governs.
(Ord. No. 2013-10-14, 1(Exh. A § 16-17.50), 10-14-2013; Ord. No. 2015-01-04, § 1, 1-26-2015)
Sec. 16-286. - References to other regulations.
All references in these land development regulations to other city, state or federal regulations are for informational purposes only, and do not constitute a complete list of such regulations. These references do not imply any responsibility by the city for enforcement of state or federal regulations.
(Ord. No. 2013-10-14, 1(Exh. A § 16-17.60), 10-14-2013; Ord. No. 2015-01-04, § 1, 1-26-2015)
Sec. 16-287. - Current versions and citations.
All references to other city, state or federal regulations in these land development regulations refer to the most current version and citation for those regulations, unless otherwise expressly indicated.
(Ord. No. 2013-10-14, 1(Exh. A § 16-17.70), 10-14-2013; Ord. No. 2015-01-04, § 1, 1-26-2015)
Sec. 16-288. - Lists and examples.
Lists of items or examples that use "including," "such as" or similar terms are intended to provide examples only. They are not to be construed as exhaustive lists of all possibilities.
(Ord. No. 2013-10-14, 1(Exh. A § 16-17.80), 10-14-2013; Ord. No. 2015-01-04, § 1, 1-26-2015)
Sec. 16-289. - Delegation of authority.
Whenever a provision appears requiring the head of a department or another officer or employee of the city to perform an act or duty, that department head, officer or employee is authorized to delegate the assigned responsibility to other individuals over whom they have authority.
(Ord. No. 2013-10-14, 1(Exh. A § 16-17.90), 10-14-2013; Ord. No. 2015-01-04, § 1, 1-26-2015)
Sec. 16-290. - Public officials and agencies.
All employees, public officials, bodies and agencies to which references are made are those of the City of Dunwoody unless otherwise expressly stated.
(Ord. No. 2013-10-14, 1(Exh. A § 16-17.100), 10-14-2013; Ord. No. 2015-01-04, § 1, 1-26-2015)
Secs. 16-291—16-300. - Reserved.
DIVISION 2. - DEFINITIONS

Sec. 16-301. - Terms defined.
For this division, the terms below have the following meanings:
The words and terms expressly defined in this division have the specific meanings assigned, unless the context clearly indicates another meaning. Other terms used but not defined in this division shall be interpreted based on how such terms are defined and used in the GSMM and the City of Dunwoody's MS4 permit.
(a)
Terms beginning with "A."
Accessory structure means a structure, the use of which is customarily incidental and subordinate to that of the principal building of the same lot, such as a detached garage, toolshed or gazebo.
Accessory use means a use customarily incidental and subordinate to the principal use of the principal building or to the principal use of the premises.
Addition (to an existing building) means any walled and roofed expansion to the perimeter of a building in which the addition is connected to a common load-bearing wall other than a firewall. Any walled and roofed addition that is connected by a firewall or is separated by independent perimeter load-bearing walls is considered new construction.
Adjacent to the future-conditions floodplains means those areas located within the defined horizontal distance from the future-conditions floodplain boundary that are at or lower in elevation than either three feet above the base flood elevation or one foot above the future-conditions flood elevation, whichever is higher, unless the area is hydraulically independent (meaning absolutely no connection to the flooding source such as through pipes, sewer laterals, down drains, foundation drains, ground seepage, overland flow, gated or valved pipes, excavated and backfilled trenches, etc. with no fill or other manmade barriers creating the separation).
Administrator means the person appointed to administer and implement this division on post-construction stormwater management for new development and redevelopment in accordance with section 16-91(b)(4).
Aggrieved person means a person whose property is the subject of the action appealed from or a person who has a substantial interest in the action appealed from, who is in danger of suffering special damage or injury not common to all property owners similarly situated.
Agricultural operations means those practices involving the establishment, cultivation or harvesting of products of the field or orchard; the preparation and planting of pasture land and farm ponds; dairy operations; livestock and poultry management practices; and the construction of farm buildings.
Alley means a minor way that is used primarily for vehicular service access to the back or side of properties otherwise fronting on a street.
Applicant means any person submittng a land development application for approval.
Area of shallow flooding means a designated AO or AH zone on the flood insurance rate map (FIRM). The base flood depths range from one to three feet; a clearly defined channel does not exist; the path of flooding is unpredictable and indeterminate; and velocity flow may be evident. Such flooding is characterized by ponding or sheet flow.
Area of special flood hazard. See "special flood hazard area."
Arterial (street) means a street, road or highway shown as an arterial in the City of Dunwoody Comprehensive Transportation Plan.
As-built drawings means amended site plans specifying the location, dimensions, elevations, capacities and operational capabilities of public improvements, including water, sewer, road and drainage structures and stormwater management facilities as they have been constructed.
(b)
Terms beginning with "B."
Bank (stream bank) means as measured horizontally from that point where vegetation has been wrested by normal stream flow or wave action.
Base flood means a flood that has a one percent chance of being equaled or exceeded in any given year (also called the 100-year flood).
Base flood elevation means the highest water surface elevation anticipated at any given point during the base flood.
Basement means any area of a building having its floor below ground level on three or more sides.
Best management practices (BMPs) means both structural devices to store or treat stormwater runoff and non-structural programs or practices which are designed to prevent or reduce the pollution of the waters of the State of Georgia.
BMP landscaping plan means a design for vegetation and landscaping that is critical to the performance and function of the BMP including how the BMP will be stabilized and established with vegetation. It shall include a layout of plants and plant names (local and scientific).
Bicycle lane means that part of a street or highway adjacent to the roadway, designated by official signs or markings for use by persons riding bicycles.
Block means a piece or parcel of land entirely surrounded by public highways or streets, other than alleys. In cases where the platting is incomplete or disconnected, the community development director may delineate the outline of the block.
Breakaway wall means a wall that is not part of the structural support of the building and is intended through its design and construction to collapse under specific lateral loading forces without causing damage to the elevated portion of the building or the supporting system.
Buffer area means that portion of a lot set aside for open space and/or visual screening purposes, pursuant to the applicable provisions of this Code and all conditions of zoning, to separate different use districts or to separate uses on one property from uses on another property of the same use district or a different use district.
Buffer, stream, means the portion of a lot and/or area of land immediately adjacent to the banks of streams as regulated by the land development regulations of this Code.
Buffer zone, state, means the area of land immediately adjacent to the banks of state waters in its natural state of vegetation that facilitates the protection of water quality and aquatic habitat.
Buildable area means the area of a lot remaining after all applicable zoning and land development regulations have been met (i.e., that portion of a lot where a building may be located).
Builder means a person who constructs a structure or dwelling for residential occupancy by humans.
Building. See "structure".
Building, elevated. See "elevated building."
Building permit means required written permission issued by the community development director or a building inspector for the construction, repair, alteration or addition to a structure.
Building setback line means the minimum horizontal distance required between the public right-of-way or the utility easement abutting a private street and the principal building or structure on a lot or any projection thereof, except projections that are authorized exceptions to building setback line requirements in the city zoning ordinance and any zoning conditions approved by the city council pursuant thereto. The size of the utility easement for a private street is equal to the required size of the public right-of-way and may not be any smaller in width or length than what would be required for a public right-of-way.
(c)
Terms beginning with "C."
Caliper means the diameter of a tree trunk, taken six inches above the ground for up to and including four-inch caliper size, and 12 inches above the ground for larger sizes.
Certified arborist means an individual who has been certified as an arborist by the International Society of Arboriculture and maintains the certification in good standing.
Channel means a natural or artificial watercourse with a definite bed and banks that conveys continuously or periodically flowing water.
Channel protection means the protection of stream channels, in accord with the Georgia Stormwater Management Manual, from bank and bed erosion and degradation by preserving or restoring the applicable stream buffer, by providing extended detention and by integrating erosion prevention measures such as energy dissipation and velocity control.
City arborist means the community development director or the community development director's designee having primary administration and enforcement responsibilities for landscaping and tree regulations.
City manager means the city manager of the City of Dunwoody.
City of Dunwoody Stormwater Management Manual means the Georgia Stormwater Management Manual.
Collector street means a street or road designated as a collector street in the City of Dunwoody Comprehensive Transportation Plan.
Commission means the Georgia Soil and Water Conservation Commission (GSWCC).
Comprehensive plan means the comprehensive plan adopted by the city council, as it may be amended from time to time, that divides the city into land use categories and that constitutes the official policy of the city regarding long-term planning and use of land.
Construction means any alteration of land for the purpose of achieving its development or changed use, including particularly any preparation for, building of or erection of a structure.
Construction waste means waste building materials and rubble resulting from construction, remodeling, repair and demolition operations on pavements, houses, commercial buildings and other structures. Such waste includes, but is not limited to, asbestos-containing waste, wood, tree stumps, tree tops, bricks, metal, concrete, wall board, paper, cardboard, glass, wire, plastics and other typical construction waste products and refuse.
CPESC means certified professional in erosion and sediment control with current certification by EnviroCert, Inc. which is also referred to as CPESC or CPESC, Inc.
Critical root zone means a circular region measured outward from a tree trunk representing the essential area of roots that must be maintained or protected for the tree's survival. The critical root zone encompasses one foot of radial distance for every one inch of the tree's DBH, with a minimum radius of eight feet.
Crosswalk means a right-of-way within a block dedicated to public use, ten feet or more in width, intended exclusively for pedestrians and nonmotorized transportation and that is designed to improve or provide access to adjacent roads or lots.
Crown reduction pruning means a method of pruning to reduce the height or spread of a tree by performing appropriate pruning cuts.
Cut means a portion of land surface or area from which earth has been removed or will be removed by excavation or the depth below original ground surface to excavated surface. Also known as "excavation."
(d)
Terms beginning with "D."
DBH (diameter at breast height) means the diameter of a tree trunk measured in inches at a height of four and one-half feet above the ground. If a tree splits into multiple trunks below four and one-half feet, then the trunk is measured at its most narrow point beneath the split.
Density factor means a unit of measurement used to calculate the required tree coverage on a site.
Design professional means a professional licensed by the State of Georgia in the field of: engineering, architecture, landscape architecture, forestry, geology, or land surveying; or a person that is a certified professional in erosion and sediment control (CPESC) with a current certification by EnviroCert, Inc. Design professionals shall practice in a manner that complies with applicable Georgia law governing professional licensure.
Detached means being separated from a principal structure by a minimum of three feet.
Detention means the temporary storage of stormwater runoff in a stormwater detention facility for the purpose of controlling the peak discharge.
Detention facility means a structure designed for storage and gradual release of stormwater runoff at controlled rates.
Development means new or redevelopment.
Development permit means a permit issued by the City of Dunwoody that authorizes the commencement of development on a specific parcel of land.
District means the DeKalb Soil and Water Conservation District.
Division means the Environmental Protection Division (EPD) of the Department of Natural Resources.
DNR means the Georgia Department of Natural Resources.
Drainage means the removal of surface or subsurface water from a given area, either by gravity or by pumping, commonly applied herein to surface water.
Drainage plan means a plan prepared using appropriate and commonly accepted engineering standards that specifies the means for alteration or development of a drainage system.
Drainage structure means a device composed of a virtually non-erodible material such as concrete, steel, plastic or other such material that conveys water from one place to another by intercepting the flow and carrying it to a release point for stormwater management, drainage control or flood control purposes.
Drainage system means the surface and subsurface system for the removal of water from the land, including, but not limited to, both the natural elements of streams, marshes, swales and ponds, whether of an intermittent or continuous nature and the manmade element that includes culverts, ditches, channels and detention facilities that comprise the storm drainage system.
(e)
Terms beginning with "E."
Elevated building means a non-basement building built to have the lowest floor of the lowest enclosed area elevated above ground level by means of fill, solid foundation perimeter walls, pilings, columns, piers or shear walls that are adequately anchored so as not to impair the structural integrity of the building during a base flood event.
Encroachment means the advance or infringement of uses, plant growth, fill, excavation, buildings, permanent structures or development into a floodplain that may impede or alter the flow capacity of a floodplain.
EPD means the Environmental Protection Division of the Georgia Department of Natural Resources.
Erosion means the process by which land surface is worn away by the action of wind, water, ice or gravity.
Existing construction means any structure for which the "start of construction" commenced before October 14, 2009 the effective date of floodplain management regulations adopted by this community.
Existing manufactured home park or subdivision means a manufactured home park or subdivision for which the construction of facilities for servicing the lots on which the manufactured homes are to be affixed (including, at a minimum, the installation of utilities, the construction of streets and either final site grading or the pouring of concrete pads) is completed before October 14, 2009, the effective date of floodplain management regulations adopted by this community as a basis for community participation in the National Flood Insurance Program.
Expansion to an existing manufactured home park or subdivision means the preparation of additional sites by the construction of facilities for servicing the lots on which the manufactured homes are to be affixed (including the installation of utilities, the construction of streets and either final site grading or the pouring of concrete pads).
Extended detention means the detention of stormwater runoff for an extended period of time.
Extreme flood protection means measures taken to prevent adverse impacts from large low-frequency storm events with a return frequency of 100 years or more.
(f)
Terms beginning with "F."
Fill means a portion of land surface to which soil or other solid material has been added; the depth above the original ground surface or an excavation.
Final stabilization means all soil disturbing activities at the site have been completed, and that for unpaved areas and areas not covered by permanent structures, 100 percent of the soil surface is uniformly covered in permanent vegetation with a density of 70 percent or greater, or landscaped according to the plan (uniformly covered with landscaping materials in planned landscape areas), or equivalent permanent stabilization measures as defined in the manual (excluding a crop of annual vegetation and seeding of target crop perennials appropriate for the region). Final stabilization applies to each phase of construction.
Finished grade means the final elevation and contour of the ground after cutting or filling and conforming to the proposed design.
Flooding means a volume of surface water that exceeds the banks or walls of the BMP or channel and overflows onto adjacent land:
Flood hazard boundary map (FHBM) means the official map on which the Federal Emergency Management Agency or Federal Insurance Administration has delineated the special flood hazard areas as zone A.
Flood insurance rate map (FIRM) means an official map on which the Federal Emergency Management Agency has delineated both the special flood hazard areas and the risk premium zones applicable to the community.
Flood insurance study means the official report provided by the Federal Emergency Management Agency. The report contains flood profiles, as well as the flood boundary floodway map and the water surface elevation of the base flood.
Floodplain means any land area susceptible to flooding.
Floodplain coordinator means the individual appointed to administer and enforce the flood protection regulations of article II, division 8.
Floodproofing means any combination of structural and nonstructural additions, changes or adjustments to structures that reduce or eliminate flood damage to real estate or improved real property, water and sanitary facilities, structures and their contents.
Floodway means the channel of a river or other watercourse and the adjacent areas of the floodplain that is necessary to contain and discharge the base flood flow without cumulatively increasing the base flood elevation more than one foot; sometimes referred to as the "regulatory floodway."
Floor means the top surface of an enclosed area in a building, including basement (i.e., the top of slab in concrete slab construction or top of wood flooring in wood frame construction). The term does not include the floor of a garage used solely for parking vehicles.
Frontage, lot means the distance for which the front boundary line of the lot and the street line are coincident.
Functionally dependent use means a use that cannot perform its intended purposes unless it is located or carried out in close proximity to water.
Future-conditions flood means the flood having a one-percent chance of being equaled or exceeded in any given year based on future-conditions hydrology. Also known as the 100-year future-conditions flood.
Future-conditions flood elevation means the flood standard equal to or higher than the base flood elevation. The future-conditions flood elevation is defined as the highest water surface anticipated at any given point during the future-conditions flood.
Future-conditions floodplain means any land area susceptible to flooding by the future-conditions flood.
Future-conditions hydrology means the flood discharges associated with projected land-use conditions based on a community's zoning map, comprehensive land-use plans and/or watershed study projections, and without consideration of projected future construction of flood detention structures or projected future hydraulic modifications within a stream or other waterway, such as bridge and culvert construction, fill and excavation.
(g)
Terms beginning with "G."
Grading means altering the shape of ground surfaces to a predetermined condition; this includes stripping, cutting, filling, stockpiling and shaping or any combination thereof and includes the land in its cut or filled condition.
Ground elevation means the original elevation of the ground surface prior to cutting or filling.
GSMM means the latest edition of the Georgia Stormwater Management Manual, Volume 2: Technical Handbook, and its Appendices.
(h)
Terms beginning with "H."
Hardwood tree means a tree that does not bear either needles or cones. The term hardwood is based on the colloquialism and does not reflect any true qualities of the tree.
Highest adjacent grade means the highest natural elevation of the ground surface, prior to construction, next to the proposed foundation of a building.
Historic structure means any structure that is:
(1)
Listed individually in the National Register of Historic Places (a listing maintained by the Department of Interior) or preliminarily determined by the Secretary of the Interior as meeting the requirements for individual listing on the National Register;
(2)
Certified or preliminarily determined by the Secretary of the Interior as contributing to the historical significance of a registered historic district or a district preliminarily determined by the Secretary of the Interior to qualify as a registered historic district;
(3)
Individually listed on a state inventory of historic places in states with historic preservation programs which have been approved by the Secretary of Interior; or
(4)
Individually listed on a local inventory of historic places in communities with historic preservation programs that have been certified either by an approved state program as determined by the Secretary of the Interior or directly by the Secretary of the Interior in states without approved programs. Hydrologic soil group (HSG) means a Natural Resource Conservation Service classification system in which soils are categorized into four runoff potential groups. The groups range from group A soils, with high permeability and little runoff produced, to group D soils, which have low permeability rates and produce much more runoff.
Hotspot means a land use or activity on a site that has the potential to produce higher than normally found levels of pollutants in stormwater runoff. As defined by the administrator, hotspot land use may include gasoline stations, vehicle services and maintenance areas, industrial facilities (both permitted under the industrial stormwater general permit and others), material storage sites, garbage transfer facilities, and commercial parking lots with high-intensity use.
Hydrologic soil group (HSG) means a natural resource conservation service classification system in which soils are categorized into four runoff potential groups. The groups range from group A soils, with high permeability and little runoff produced, to group D soils, which have low permeability rates and produce much more runoff.
(i)
Terms beginning with "I."
Impervious surface means any surface composed of any material that significantly impedes or prevents the natural infiltration of water into the soil.
Industrial stormwater general permit means the National Pollutant Discharge Elimination System (NPDES) permit issued by Georgia Environmental Protection Division to an industry for stormwater discharges associated with industrial activity. The permit regulates pollutant levels associated with industrial stormwater discharges or specifies on-site pollution control strategies based on Standard Industrial Classification (SIC) Code.
Infiltration means the process of percolating stormwater runoff into the subsoil.
Inspection and maintenance agreement means a written agreement providing for the long-term inspection, operation, and maintenance of the stormwater management system and its components on a site.
(j)
Terms beginning with "J."
RESERVED
(k)
Terms beginning with "K."
RESERVED
(l)
Terms beginning with "L."
Land development application means the application for a land development permit on a form provided by the city along with the supporting documentation required in section 16-94(b).
Land development permit means the authorization necessary to begin construction-related, land-disturbing activity.
Land-disturbing activity means any activity which may result in soil erosion from water or wind and the movement of sediments into state waters or onto lands within the state, including, but not limited to, clearing, dredging, grading, excavating, and filling of land, but not including agricultural practices as described in section 16-58 or silvicultural land management activities as described in O.C.G.A. 12-7-17(6) which areas zoned for these activities.
Landscape plan means a plan that identifies areas of tree preservation and methods of tree protection within the protected zone, as well as all areas or replanting. Within replanting areas, the common and botanical names of the proposed species, the number of plants of each species, the size of all plants, the proposed location of all plants and any unique features of the plants.
Larger common plan of development or sale means a contiguous area where multiple separate and distinct construction activities are occurring under one plan of development or sale. For the purposes of this definition, the term "plan" means an announcement; piece of documentation such as a sign, public notice or hearing, sales pitch, advertisement, drawing, permit application, zoning request or computer design; or physical demarcation such as boundary signs, lot stakes or surveyor markings indicating that construction activities may occur on a specific plot.
Linear feasibility program means a feasibility program developed by the city and submitted to the Georgia Environmental Protection Division, which sets reasonable criteria for determining when implementation of stormwater management standards for linear transportation projects being constructed by the city is infeasible.
Linear transportation projects means construction projects on traveled ways including but not limited to roads, sidewalks, multi-use paths and trails and airport runways and taxiways.
Live detention means that quantity of water capable of being effectively contained by a designated facility for stormwater storage for a specified period of time.
Local issuing authority means the governing authority of the city that is certified pursuant to O.C.G.A. §12-7-8(a).
Local street means a street used primarily for access to abutting properties in residential, industrial or other developments.
Lot means a designated parcel, tract or area of land legally established by plat, subdivision, or as otherwise permitted by law, to be separately owned, used, developed or built upon.
Lot, corner, means a lot abutting upon two or more streets at their intersection or upon two parts of the same street forming an interior angle of less than 135 degrees.
Lot, double-frontage, means a lot that abuts two parallel streets or that abuts two streets that do not intersect at the boundaries of the lot. A double-frontage lot may also be referred to as a through lot.
Lot, flag, means a lot that sits behind lots which face directly onto a street with access provided to the bulk of the lot by means of a narrow corridor, whether providing the minimum amount of street frontage and width or not.
Lowest floor means the lowest floor of the lowest enclosed area, including basement. An unfinished or flood-resistant enclosure below the lowest floor that is usable solely for parking or vehicles, building access or storage in an area other than a basement area, is not considered a building's lowest floor, provided that such enclosure is not built so as to render the structure in violation of other provisions of these land development regulations.
(m)
Terms beginning with "M."
Maintenance of detention facility means preserving the enclosed walls or impounding embankments of the detention facility in good condition; ensuring structural soundness, functional adequacy and freedom from excessive sediment; removing obstructions affecting operation of outlet device; and rectifying any unforeseen erosion problems.
Manufactured home means a structure, transportable in one or more sections, built on a permanent chassis and is designed for use with or without a permanent foundation when connected to the required utilities. The term includes any structure commonly referred to as a "mobile home" regardless of the date of manufacture. The term also includes parked trailers, travel trailers and similar transportable structures placed on a site for 180 consecutive days or longer and intended to be improved property.
Manufactured home park or subdivision means a parcel (or contiguous parcels) of land divided into two or more manufactured home lots for rent or sale.
Market value means (1) the appraised value of the structure prior to the start of the initial repair or improvement, or (2) in the case of damage, the value of the structure prior to the damage occurring. This term includes structures that have incurred "substantial damage" regardless of the actual amount of repair work performed.
Mean sea level means the average height of the sea for all stages of the tide. It is used as a reference for establishing various elevations within the floodplain. It is used as a reference for establishing various elevations within the floodplain. For purposes of these regulations, the term is synonymous with National Geodetic Vertical Datum (NGVD) and/or the North American Vertical Datum (NAVD) of 1988.
MS4 Permit means the NPDES permit issued by Georgia Environmental Protection Division for discharges from the city's municipal storm sewer system.
Multiphase residential development means any development undertaken by a single developer or a group of developers acting in concert to develop lots for sale in a residential subdivision where such land is developed pursuant to multiple preliminary or final plats and such land is contiguous or is known, designated or advertised as a common unit or by a common name.
Multi-use trail means a recreation corridor intended for the use of nonmotorized forms of transportation such as, but not limited to, walking, wheelchairs, running, bicycles and inline skates, as identified in the Parks, Recreation and Greenspace Master Plan, the Comprehensive Transportation Plan or other plan adopted by the city council.
(n)
Terms beginning with "N."
National Geodetic Vertical Datum (NGVD), as corrected in 1929, means a vertical control used as a reference for establishing varying elevations within the floodplain.
Natural ground surface means the ground surface in its original state before any grading excavation or filling.
Nephelometric turbidity units (NTUs) means numerical units of measure based upon photometric analytical techniques for measuring the light scattered by finely divided particles of a substance in suspension. This technique is used to estimate the extent of turbidity in water in which colloidally dispersed particles are present.
New construction means any structure for which the permitted date of construction commenced after adoption of this chapter, October 14, 2009. For the purposes of interpreting and administering the flood damage prevention regulations of article II, division 8, "new construction" means structures for which the start of construction commenced on or after the effective date of floodplain management regulations adopted by this community as a basis for community participation in the NFIP.
New development means land disturbing activities, structural development (construction, installation or expansion of a building or other structure), and/or creation of impervious surfaces on a previously undeveloped site.
New manufactured home park or subdivision means a manufactured home park or subdivision for which the construction of facilities for servicing the lots on which the manufactured homes are to be affixed (including, at a minimum, the installation of utilities, the construction of streets and either final site grading or the pouring of concrete pads) is completed on or after October 14, 2009, the effective date of floodplain management regulations adopted by this community.
Nonpoint source pollution means a form of water pollution that does not originate from a discrete point such as a wastewater treatment facility or industrial discharge, but involves the transport of pollutants such as sediment, fertilizers, pesticides, heavy metals, oil, grease, bacteria, organic materials and other contaminants from land to surface water or groundwater via mechanisms such as precipitation, stormwater runoff and leaching. Nonpoint source pollution is a byproduct of land use practices such as agricultural, silvicultural, mining, construction, subsurface disposal and urban runoff sources.
Nonstructural stormwater management practice or nonstructural practice means any natural or planted vegetation or other nonstructural component and practice of the stormwater management plan that provides for or enhances stormwater quantity and/or quality control or other stormwater management benefits and includes, but is not limited to, riparian buffers, open and green space areas, overland flow filtration areas, vegetated channels and natural depressions.
North American Vertical Datum (NAVD), as corrected in 1988, means a vertical datum used as a reference for establishing varying elevations within the floodplain.
(o)
Terms beginning with "O."
100-year floodplain means land in the floodplain subject to a one-percent or greater statistical occurrence probability of flooding in any given year.
Operator means the party that has:
(1)
Operational control of construction project plans and specifications, including the ability to make modifications to those plans and specifications; or
(2)
Day-to-day operational control of those activities that are necessary to ensure compliance with a stormwater pollution prevention plan for the site or other permit conditions, such as a person authorized to direct workers at a site to carry out activities required by the stormwater pollution prevention plan or to comply with other permit conditions.
Ornamental trees means small growing trees, attaining a mature height of less than 40 feet, grown primarily for aesthetic purposes, i.e., flowers, fruit, etc.
Overbank flood protection means measures taken to prevent an increase in the frequency and magnitude of out-of-bank flooding (i.e., flow events that exceed the capacity of the channel and enter the floodplain) and that are intended to protect downstream properties from flooding for the two-year through 25-year frequency storm events.
Overstory tree means those trees that compose the top layer or canopy of vegetation and will generally reach a mature height of greater than 40 feet.
Owner means the legal or beneficial owner of a site, including, but not limited to, a mortgagee or vendee in possession, receiver, executor, trustee, lessee or other person, firm or corporation in control of the site.
(p)
Terms beginning with "P."
Person means any individual, partnership, firm, association, joint venture, public or private corporation, trust, estate, commission, board, public or private institution, utility, cooperative, city, county, or other of this state, any interstate body or any other legal entity.
Planning commission means the planning commission of the city.
Post-construction stormwater management means stormwater best management practices that are used on a permanent basis to control and treat runoff once construction has been completed in accordance with a stormwater management plan.
Post-development means the conditions anticipated to exist on a site immediately after completion of the proposed development.
Potential purchaser means a person purchasing property in a residential subdivision or a multiphase residential development from a developer and/or builder for occupancy as a residence or as a residence to be rented or leased to others.
Practicability policy means the latest edition of the Metropolitan North Georgia Water Planning Districts Policy on Practicability Analysis for Runoff Reduction.
Pre-development means the conditions that exist on a site immediately before the implementation of the proposed development. Where phased development or a plan approval occurs (preliminary grading, roads and utilities, etc.), the existing conditions at the time before the first item being approved or permitted shall establish pre-developed conditions.
Pre-development hydrology means (a) for new development, the runoff curve number determined using natural conditions hydrologic analysis based on the natural, undisturbed condition of the site immediately before implementation of the proposed development; and (b) for redevelopment, the existing conditions hydrograph may take into account the existing development when defining the runoff curve number and calculating existing runoff, unless the existing development causes a negative impact on downstream property.
Previously developed site means a site that has been altered by paving, construction, and/or land disturbing activity.
Protected zone means all areas of a parcel required to remain in open space, including all areas required as yard or setback areas, buffer areas, stream buffers, state buffer zones or landscaped areas in accordance with provisions of the city zoning ordinance or by conditions of zoning or variance approval.
Public facilities means the roads, water, sewer, schools, traffic control devices and electrical service.
(q)
Terms beginning with "Q."
RESERVED
(r)
Terms beginning with "R."
Reach means a longitudinal segment of a stream or river measured along specified points on the stream or river.
Reasonable access means a 15-foot wide access easement from the public right-of-way to the stormwater management facility and a drainage and maintenance easement encompassing the stormwater management facility and extending ten feet outside the pond's 100-year water ponding elevation.
Recreation areas mean those portions of open space designed and intended for active recreational use, such as sports fields and other play areas.
Recreational vehicle means a vehicle that is:
(1)
Built on a single chassis;
(2)
Four hundred square feet or less when measured at the largest horizontal projection;
(3)
Designed to be self-propelled or permanently towable by a light-duty truck; and
(4)
Not designed primarily for use as a permanent dwelling but as temporary living quarters for recreational, camping, travel or seasonal use.
Redevelopment means structural development (construction, installation, or expansion of a building or other structure), creation or addition of impervious surfaces, replacement of impervious surfaces not as a part of routing maintenance, and land disturbing activities associated with structural or impervious development on a previously developed site. Redevelopment does not include such activities as exterior remodeling.
Residential has the same meaning as given in the city zoning ordinance except that it does not include apartments.
Revegetation means replacement of trees and landscape plant materials into the minimum required landscape areas, as determined by the zoning ordinance, conditions of zoning approval or applicable tree preservation or protection regulations.
Roadway drainage structure means a device such as a bridge, culvert or ditch, composed of a virtually nonerodible material such as concrete, steel, plastic or other such material that conveys water under a roadway by intercepting the flow on one side of a traveled way consisting of one or more defined lanes, with or without shoulder areas and carrying water to a release point on the other side.
Rock outcropping means a single, contiguous piece of exposed rock that has a horizontal surface area equal to or greater than 200 square feet.
Runoff means stormwater runoff.
Runoff coefficient means the ratio of runoff to rainfall.
Routine maintenance means activities to keep an impervious surface as near as possible to its constructed condition. This includes ordinary maintenance activities, resurfacing paved areas, and exterior building changes or improvements which do not materially increase or concentrate stormwater runoff, or cause additional nonpoint source pollution.
(s)
Terms beginning with "S."
Sediment means solid material, both organic and inorganic, that is in suspension, is being transported or has been moved from its site of origin by air, water, ice or gravity as a product of erosion.
Sediment basin means a detention facility specifically developed for the purpose of allowing the deposit of sediment resulting from the land development process that may be constructed as part of or separately from a detention facility.
Sedimentation means the process by which eroded material is transported and deposited by the action of water, wind, ice or gravity.
Seller means a builder or developer.
Significant tree means any existing, healthy, living tree eight inches DBH or greater in size.
Site means an area of land where development is planned, which may include all or portions of one or more parcels of land. For subdivisions and other common plans of development, the site includes all areas of land covered under an applicable land development permit.
Site plan means that plan required to acquire a development, construction or building permit that shows the means by which the applicant will comply with applicable provisions of this chapter and other applicable ordinances.
Softwood tree means any coniferous (cone-bearing) tree.
Soil and water conservation district approved plan means an erosion, sedimentation and pollution control plan approved in writing by the DeKalb Soil and Water Conservation District.
Special flood hazard area (SFHA) means an area in the floodplain subject to a one-percent or greater chance of flooding in any given year. This includes areas shown on an FHBM or FIRM as zone A, AO, A1-A30, AE, A99, AE, AO, AH or AR; all floodplain and floodprone areas at or below the future-conditions flood elevation; and all other floodprone areas as referenced in section 16-136. All streams with a drainage area of 100 acres or greater must have the special flood hazard area delineated.
Special tree means any tree that qualifies for special consideration for preservation due to its size, type, and condition.
Specimen tree means any tree that has been determined by the city arborist to be of high value because of its type, size, age, and/or of historical significance, or other professional criteria, and has been so designated in administrative standards established by the city. This is usually a plant with desirable form, foliage, fruit or flower that can be emphasized although isolated.
Spite strip means a piece of land used to separate a street or road rights-of-way from adjoining property and whose primary purpose is to preclude access to such rights-of-way.
Stabilization means the process of establishing an enduring soil cover of vegetation by the installation of temporary or permanent cover for the purpose of reducing to a minimum the erosion process and the resulting transport of sediment by wind, water, ice or gravity.
Standards and specifications means construction and technical requirements that govern construction and installation of streets and other public improvements in the City of Dunwoody.
Start of construction means the initial disturbance of soils associated with clearing, grading or excavating activities or other construction activities. The term "construction activities" means the disturbance of soils associated with clearing, grading, excavating, filling of land or other similar activities that may result in soil erosion. For the purposes of interpreting and administering the flood damage prevention regulations of article II, division 8, "start of construction" means the date the building permit was issued, provided the actual start of construction, repair, reconstruction, rehabilitation, addition, placement or other improvement was within 180 days of the date of the permit. The actual start means either the first placement of permanent construction of a structure on a site, such as the pouring of slab for footings, the installation of piles, the construction of columns or any work beyond the stage of excavation; or the placement of a manufactured home on a foundation. Permanent construction does not include land preparation, such as clearing, grading, and filling; nor does it include the installation of streets and/or walkways; nor does it include excavation for a basement, footings, piers or foundations or the erection of temporary forms; nor does it include the installation of accessory buildings or structures appurtenant to the principal structure, such as garages or sheds not occupied as dwelling units or not part of the main structure. For a substantial improvement, the actual start of construction means the first alteration of any wall, ceiling, floor or other structural part of a building, whether or not that alteration affects the external dimensions of the building.
State general permit means the national pollution discharge elimination system general permit for stormwater runoff from construction activities as is now in effect or as may be amended or reissued in the future pursuant to the state's authority to implement the same through federal delegation under the federal Water Pollution Control Act, as amended, 33 USC 1251 et seq. and O.C.G.A. § 12-5-30(f).
State waters means any and all rivers, streams, creeks, branches, lakes, reservoirs, ponds, drainage systems, springs, wells, and other bodies of surface or subsurface water, natural or artificial, lying within or forming a part of the boundaries of the state that are not entirely confined and retained completely upon the property of a single individual, partnership or corporation.
Stormwater better site design means a nonstructural site design approach and technique that can reduce a site's impact on the watershed and can provide for nonstructural stormwater management. The term "stormwater better site design" includes conserving and protecting natural areas and greenspace, reducing impervious cover and using natural features for stormwater management.
Stormwater concept plan means an initial plan for post-construction stormwater management at the site that provides the groundwork for the stormwater management plan including the natural resources inventory, site layout concept, initial runoff characterization, and first round stormwater management system design.
Stormwater management means the collection, conveyance, storage, treatment and disposal of stormwater runoff in a manner intended to prevent increased flood damage, streambank channel erosion, habitat degradation and water quality degradation and to enhance and promote the public health, safety and general welfare.
Stormwater management manual means the Georgia Stormwater Management Manual.
Stormwater management plan means a plan for post-construction stormwater management at the site that meets the requirements of section 16-92(d) and is included as part of the land development application.
Stormwater management standards means those standards set forth in section 16-91(e).
Stormwater management system means the entire set of nonstructural site design features and structural BMPs for collection, conveyance, storage, infiltration, treatment, and disposal of stormwater runoff in a manner designed to prevent increased flood damage, streambank channel erosion, habitat degradation and water quality degradation, and to enhance and promote the public health, safety and general welfare.
Stormwater runoff means flow on the surface of the ground, resulting from precipitation.
Stream means natural, running water flowing continuously or intermittently in a channel on or below the surface of the ground. Field verification must be performed to make a final determination as to the existence of a stream where a dispute exists. Such field verification must be performed under the direction of the community development director.
Streambank means a sloping land that contains a stream channel in the normal flows of the stream.
Stream channel means the portion of a watercourse that contains the base flow of the stream.
Stream, ephemeral (stormwater), means a feature that carries only stormwater in direct response to precipitation with water flowing only during and shortly after large precipitation events. An ephemeral stream may or may not have a well-defined channel, the aquatic bed is defined always above the water table, and stormwater runoff is the primary source of water. An ephemeral stream typically lacks the biological, hydrological and physical characteristics commonly associated with the continuous or intermittent conveyance of water.
Stream, intermittent, means a well-defined channel that contains water for only part of the year, typically during winter and spring when the aquatic bed is below the seasonally high water table. The flow may be heavily supplemented by stormwater runoff. An intermittent stream often lacks the biological and hydrological characteristics commonly associated with the conveyance of water.
Stream, perennial, means a well-defined channel that contains water year round during a year of normal rainfall with the aquatic bed located below the water table for most of the year. Groundwater is the primary source of water for a perennial stream, but it also carries stormwater runoff. A perennial stream exhibits the typical biological, hydrological and physical characteristics commonly associated with the continuous conveyance of water.
Street, private, means an access way similar to and having the same function as a public street, providing access to more than one property but held in private ownership. Private streets, when authorized, must be developed in accordance with the specifications for public streets established in this chapter.
Street, public, means any right-of-way set aside for public travel dedicated to the city and any right-of-way that has been accepted for maintenance as a street by the city.
Street right-of-way line means the dividing line between a lot, tract or parcel of land and a street right-of-way.
Structural erosion, sedimentation and pollution control measures means measures for the stabilization of erodible or sediment-producing areas by utilizing the mechanical properties of matter for the purpose of either changing the surface of the land or storing, regulating or disposing of runoff to prevent excessive sediment loss. Examples of structural erosion and sediment control practices are riprap, sediment basins, dikes, level spreaders, waterways or outlets, diversions, grade stabilization structures, sediment traps and land grading. Such measures can be found in the Manual for Erosion and Sediment Control in Georgia.
Structure means a walled and roofed building (including a gas or liquid storage tank), that is principally above ground, or a manufactured home.
Subdivision means any division of a tract or parcel of land resulting in one or more new lots or building sites for the purpose, whether immediately or in the future, of sale, other transfer of ownership or land development, and includes divisions of land resulting from or made in connection with the layout or development of a new street or roadway or a change in an existing street or roadway.
Substantial building permit means a nonresidential building permit issued by the city with a total value in excess of 50 percent of the county tax assessor's 100 percent assessed value of the existing improvements only. The aggregate value of all building permits issued to the property over the previous 12 months must be included in this calculation (see appendix E).
Substantial damage means damage of any origin sustained by a structure whereby the cost of restoring the structure to its pre-damaged condition would equal or exceed 50 percent of the market value of the structure before the damage occurred.
Substantial improvement means any combination of repairs, reconstruction, alteration or improvements to a building, taking place during a ten-year period, the cost of which equals or exceeds 50 percent of the market value of the structure before the start of construction of the improvement. For the purposes of this definition, "substantial improvement" is deemed to occur when the first alteration of any wall, ceiling, floor or other structural part of the building commences, whether or not that alteration affects the external dimensions of the building. The term does not, however, include those improvements of a building required to comply with existing health, sanitary or safety code specifications which are solely necessary to assure safe living conditions, which have been pre-identified by code enforcement officials, and not solely triggered by an improvement or repair project.
Substantially improved existing manufactured home parks or subdivision is where the repair, reconstruction, rehabilitation or improvement of the streets, utilities and pads equals or exceeds 50 percent of the value of the streets, utilities and pads before the repair, reconstruction or improvement commenced.
(t)
Terms beginning with "T."
Tree means any living, self-supporting, woody perennial plant that has a trunk caliper of two inches or more measured at a point six inches above the ground and that normally attains a height of at least ten feet at maturity, usually with one main stem or trunk and many branches.
Tree harvesting means the felling, loading, and transporting of timber products done pursuant to a special exception issued by the zoning board of appeals.
Tree replacement means the replacement of trees and landscape plant materials in the minimum required landscape areas, as determined by the zoning regulations or the tree protection ordinance.
Tree save area means the boundaries of the area surrounding trees wherein it is essential that they remain undisturbed in order to prevent damage and loss of trees that are to be retained on-site during the development and building process.
Tree topping means the removal of tree limbs, branches, or stems by cutting at the internodes and resulting in the failure of the tree to assume apical dominance.
(u)
Terms beginning with "U."
Understory tree means those trees that grow beneath the overstory trees and will generally reach a mature height of less than 40 feet.
Used for includes the terms "arranged for," "designed for," "intended for," "maintained for" and "occupied for."
(v)
Terms beginning with "V."
Vegetation means all plant growth, especially trees, shrubs, vines, ferns, mosses and grasses.
Vegetative erosion, sedimentation and pollution control practices means practices for the stabilization of erodible or sediment-producing areas by covering the soil with:
(1)
Permanent seeding, sprigging or planting, producing long-term vegetative cover;
(2)
Temporary seeding, producing short-term vegetative cover; or
(3)
Sodding, covering areas with a turf of perennial sod-forming grass.
Such practices can be found in the Manual for Erosion and Sediment Control in Georgia published by the state soil and water conservation commission.
(w)
Terms beginning with "W."
Water quality protection means the requirement that all developments must improve the quality of storm runoff from the development site.
Watercourse means any natural or artificial waterway, stream, river, creek, channel, ditch, canal, conduit, culvert, drain, waterway, gully, ravine, or wash in which water flows either continuously or intermittently and that has a definite channel, bed and banks and including any area adjacent thereto subject to inundation by reason of overflow or floodwater.
Wetlands means those areas that are inundated or saturated by surface water or groundwater at a frequency and duration sufficient to support, and that under normal circumstances do support, a prevalence of vegetation typically adapted for life in saturated soil conditions. Wetlands generally include swamps, marshes, bogs and similar areas.
Width, lot, means the distance between the side lot lines, measured along a line drawn parallel to the front lot line at a distance from the front lot line equal to the minimum street yard setback. For lots with curvilinear frontage and setback lines (e.g.: cul-de-sac lots), the width shall be measured as a straight line through the points that intersect the side lot lines at a distance from the front lot line equal to the minimum street yard setback.
(x)
Terms beginning with "X."
RESERVED
(y)
Terms beginning with "Y."
RESERVED
(z)
Terms beginning with "Z."
RESERVED
(Ord. No. 2013-10-14, 1(Exh. A § 16-18.10), 10-14-2013; Ord. No. 2015-01-04, § 1, 1-26-2015; Ord. No. 2017-03-06, § 2, 3-27-2017; Ord. No. 2018-10-16, § I, 10-8-2018; Ord. No. 2020-11-21, § II, 11-30-2020)
