ARTICLE I. - IN GENERAL

Sec. 12-1. - Definitions.
The following words, terms and phrases, when used in this article, shall have the meanings ascribed to them in this section, except where the context clearly indicates a different meaning:
Administrative fee means the component of the occupation tax which approximates the reasonable cost of handling and processing the occupation tax.
Employee means an individual whose work is performed under the direction and supervision of the employer and whose employer withholds FICA, federal income tax, or state income tax from such individual's compensation or whose employer issues to such individual for purposes of documenting compensation a form IRS W-2 but not a form IRS 1099.
Gross direct premiums means gross direct premiums as used in O.C.G.A. § 33-8-4.
Gross receipts, as applied to financial institutions, has the same meaning as is ascribed to the term "gross receipts" for each such depository financial institution in O.C.G.A. § 48-6-93.
Insurer means a company which is authorized to transact business in any of the classes of insurance designated in O.C.G.A. § 33-3-5.
Location or office means any structure or vehicle where a business, profession or occupation is conducted, but shall not include a temporary or construction work site which serves a single customer or project, or a vehicle used for sales or delivery by a business or practitioner of a profession.
Occupation tax means a tax levied for revenue purposes on persons, partnerships, corporations or other entities for engaging in an occupation, profession or business in the city.
Occupation tax certificate means a document issued by the city acknowledging payment of the occupation tax and administrative fee.
Practitioners of professions and occupations means those individuals listed in O.C.G.A. § 48-13-9(c)(1)—(18), but does not include a practitioner who is an employee of a business if such business pays an occupation tax.
Regulatory fee means a fee which approximates the cost of regulatory activity by the city.
Regulatory fee certificate means a document issued by the city acknowledging payment of a regulatory fee.
Separate public accommodations facility means each building or group of buildings identifiable as a separate business establishment.
(Code 1999, §§ 62-36, 62-151)
State Law reference— Similar definitions, O.C.G.A. §§ 48-13-5, 48-6-95.
Sec. 12-2. - Administrative fee.
A nonprorated, nonrefundable administrative fee as provided in the schedule of fees and charges on file in the office of the city clerk is required on all occupation tax accounts for the initial registration, annual renewal or reopening of such accounts.
(Code 1999, § 62-152)
Sec. 12-3. - Regulatory fee.
(a)
Imposed; nonrefundable. Businesses and individuals engaging in any occupation or business in the city shall pay a nonrefundable regulatory fee as provided in the schedule of fees and charges on file in the office of the city clerk.
(b)
Proration. If a business or individual initially engages in an activity regulated by the city on or after July 1 in any year, the regulatory fee for the remaining portion of the year shall be 50 percent of the regulatory fee for the entire year.
(c)
Display of certificate. Every business, individual and location subject to payment of a regulatory fee levied by this section shall display a current regulatory fee certificate in a conspicuous place at the location for which such certificate was issued. If the taxpayer does not have a permanent location within the city, the regulatory fee certificate or an unaltered duplicate of such certificate shall be shown to any police officer or city clerk upon request.
(Code 1999, §§ 62-153—62-155)
State Law reference— Regulatory fees, O.C.G.A. § 48-13-8; limitations on imposition of regulatory fees, O.C.G.A. § 48-13-9.
Sec. 12-4. - Disciplinary action regarding business licenses, permits and registrations.
(a)
Discretion of council. The city council shall have full power and authority to refuse to issue, suspend, revoke, refuse to renew, or place on probation any person holding a city business license, permit or registration, under this or any other chapter of this Code, for violations of this Code, other city rules or ordinances, or state or federal law or regulation, or when the continued operation of the licensed business is detrimental to the health, safety or welfare of the public.
(b)
Grounds. The following shall be considered just cause for refusal to issue, suspension, revocation, refusal to renew a city license, permit or registration:
(1)
The making of any statement in an application for a license issued or under which shall later be found to be false, inaccurate, or otherwise misleading.
(2)
The violation by the license, permit or registration holder or any of its agents, employees, or representatives of any federal, state, or local law or regulation, other than traffic violations, which would tend to reflect on the holder's ability to comply with this chapter or render them unqualified to continue to hold a license issued hereunder. The determination of whether any such violation has occurred may be made by the city council by a preponderance of the evidence, and an actual conviction in any court for such offense shall not be necessary in order to take adverse action against the license.
(3)
The entry of a plea of guilty or nolo contendere, or the conviction of any licensee, partner, or any officer, director or stockholder of a licensee corporation with respect to a charge of violation of any city, state or federal law states relating to alcohol control, or any crime, whether a felony or not, involving moral turpitude.
(4)
The suspension, revocation, or any other adverse action taken against the license, permit or registration holder's state retail dealer's license.
(5)
Any conduct on the part of the license, permit or registration holder or his agents, employees, or representatives that is contrary to the public welfare, health, safety, or morals, to the extent that such conduct affects or impacts the holder's ability to continue to comply with this chapter or renders him or her unqualified to continue to hold a license issued hereunder.
(6)
The license, permit or registration holder's default on any obligation of any kind whatsoever lawfully owing to the city, or the general failure to demonstrate adequate financial responsibilities regarding the business.
(7)
With regard to any license permitting consumption on the premises, the occurrence on two or more occasions within any 12-month period of fights, disorderly conduct, drunkenness, breach of the peace, and other similar conduct whether the same is committed by the licensee or by customers or others.
(8)
Operating or conducting the business in a manner contrary to the public welfare, health, safety, or morals, or in such a manner as to constitute a nuisance.
(9)
Any other act or omission with respect to the operation of a business licensed hereunder which the city council shall find to be contrary to the public interest, or which shall render the licensee or the business location unfit for the continued operation of the business.
(c)
Rights of holder. Prior to refusal to issue or renew, suspension, revocation, or imposition of probation with regard to a business license, permit or registration issued by the city, the city council shall afford the license, permit or registration holder notice of a hearing and an opportunity to be heard. At the time and place appointed for hearing, the licensee may be represented by counsel. The license, permit or registration holder shall have the opportunity to present testimony, documentary evidence, or any other relevant evidence it may have and cross examine any witnesses presented by the city.
(d)
Service of notice of hearing. Service of notice of hearing shall be made by personal service at the licensed premises by a city police officer to any employee, agent, or other representative of the license, permit or registration holder; provided that, if personal service cannot be perfected, service may be made by tacking a copy of the notice to the door of the premises and mailing the original to the license, permit or registration holder at the licensed premises with a copy to any other address of the license, permit or registration holder contained in the most recent license application or renewal.
(e)
Council action; notice. After hearing, the city council shall take action with regard to the licensee's license as may be warranted by the facts, in its sole judgment and discretion. The city shall notify the licensee of its decision in writing within ten days of said hearing.
(f)
Remedies cumulative. Any adverse action taken by the city with regard to a license issued pursuant to this chapter shall not preclude, and may be in addition to, any criminal prosecution by any proper authority of the city, county, state, or federal government.
(g)
Investigations incident to disciplinary action. The city council shall have the right to make such inquiry or investigation as it may find to be reasonably necessary to determine the licensee's compliance or noncompliance with this chapter. Such investigation may consist, among other actions, of calling licensees for examination under oath, obtaining evidence under oath from other persons, the procurement of documents and records including records of the licensee, and inspection and examination of records and documents from whatever source obtainable.
(h)
Fees not refundable. Upon suspension or revocation of a city business license, permit or registration, no fees shall be refunded.
Sec. 12-5. - License, permit or registration not issued to persons indebted to city.
No city business license, permit or registration shall be issued to any applicant who has any outstanding indebtedness to the city, including but not limited to property taxes, business license fees, business taxes, utility bills and any other taxes or assessments.
Secs. 12-6—12-28. - Reserved.
