ARTICLE III. - OFF-STREET PARKING, LOADING AND ACCESS

Sec. 46-388. - Off-street parking and loading spaces required.
(a)
Off-street automobile parking and loading spaces shall be provided, as specified in this article, for uses and structures hereafter established in all districts at the time of initial construction of any principal building, unless otherwise exempted from this article. For developments phased in timing, parking and loading requirements may also be phased in accordance with the requirements applying for each particular time phase of development.
(b)
Any building or use that is subsequently enlarged or converted to another use shall meet the off-street parking and loading space requirements of this article, for the enlarged or new use.
(c)
Required parking and loading spaces shall be maintained and shall not be encroached upon by refuse containers, signs or other structures, unless an equal number of spaces are provided elsewhere in conformance with these regulations.
(d)
Required parking and loading spaces shall be provided with vehicular access to a public street or alley.
(e)
Off-street parking and loading facilities required shall be located contiguous to the principal building or use. However, as much as 25 percent of the required number of parking spaces may be located within 200 feet of the principal building or use, provided proof of ownership of such premises is provided to the zoning administrator. Such distance shall be measured between the nearest point of the parking facility and the nearest point of the principal building or use. If this option of utilizing nearby parking is utilized, then the parking area may not be discontinued or otherwise converted to another use during the time that it is utilized to meet the minimum required number of off-street parking spaces.
(Ord. of 1993, § 601)
Sec. 46-389. - Minimum number of off-street parking spaces required.
The minimum number of required off-street parking spaces for each type of permitted use shall be as indicated below. For uses not specifically listed, the off-street parking requirements shall be those of the most similar use as determined by the zoning administrator. When the application of these parking requirements results in a fractional space requirement, the fractional space requirement shall be construed to mean one additional space.
EXPAND
Use Classification Minimum Parking Space Requirements
Amusement park One square foot of parking for each square foot of public activity area
Apartment and other multiple-family residential uses Two spaces per dwelling unit plus four spaces per leasing office and ten spaces per clubhouse or recreation center
Art gallery One space for each 300 square feet of gross floor area
Auction facility One space for each four patron seats
Automobile service and repair One space for each 150 square feet of gross floor area
Auditorium, stadium, assembly hall, gymnasium or community center One space per four fixed seats in largest assembly room or area
Auto parts store Three and one-third spaces for each 1,000 square feet of gross floor area
Automobile sales Six spaces per 1,000 square feet of showroom gross floor area, plus one for each employee and one additional parking space for each service bay. Such parking spaces shall be for the exclusive use of customers and employees and shall not be used for sales
Automobile service and repair One space for each 150 square feet of gross floor area
Bank or financial institution One space for each 200 square feet of gross floor area
Barbershop and beauty shop Two spaces for each operator or chair
Bed and breakfast inn One space per guest room, plus one space for each permanent resident
Billiard hall, amusement arcade One space for each 200 feet of gross floor area
Boardinghouse or roominghouse One space for each guestroom, plus one additional space for each manager or resident owner
Bowling alley Four spaces for each alley, plus one space for each employee
Church or place of worship One space per three fixed seats in largest assembly room
Convenience retail store One space for each 200 square feet of gross floor area
Dance studio or school One space for each employee, plus one space per 150 square feet of gross floor area
Day care center One space for each eight children, plus one space per employee
Duplex Two spaces per dwelling unit
Elderly housing One space per two bedrooms
Exterminator One space per 800 square feet of gross floor area
Funeral home or mortuary One space for each four seats in largest assembly room
Furniture or appliance store One space per 800 square feet of gross floor area
Gasoline service station Two spaces per gasoline pump at the pump, plus three spaces per service bay
Golf course (exclusive of pro shop or restaurant) Three spaces for each hole, plus one space for each employee
Hardware store Three spaces per 1,000 square feet of gross floor plan
Health club, spa One space for each 150 square feet of gross floor area
Hospital, clinic, nursing home One space for each two beds, plus one space for each staff doctor, plus one space for each two employees (non-doctors)
Hotel, motel One space for each guest room plus one space for each two employees on largest shift
Industrial or manufacturing Two spaces for each three employees on largest shift
Laundry, self service One space for each two washer-dryer combinations
Library, museum One space for each 200 square feet of gross floor area
Lodge, club One space for each three seats in largest assembly room
Marina One space for each boat slip
Miniature golf course Two spaces per hole
Mobile home, mobile home park Two spaces per dwelling unit, plus one space for each on-duty manager and additional spaces for public park or use areas
Office, general or professional One space for each 250 square feet of gross floor area
Office, medical or dental Six spaces per practitioner
Personal service establishment One space for each 200 square feet of gross floor area
Post office One space per 150 square feet of gross floor area
Restaurant or lounge One space for each 100 square feet of gross floor area, plus one additional space for every four outside seats
Retail business, indoor One space for each 200 square feet of gross floor area
Retail business, outdoor One space for each 500 square feet of open sales/display area, plus one space per employee
Sanitarium, rest and convalescent home, personal care home One space for each four patient beds, plus one space for each doctor and staff member
School, college, trade, vocational, or high school Ten spaces per classroom, plus one space for each administrative or staff person
School, elementary Two spaces per classroom and administrative or staff person
Self-service storage, facility mini-warehouse One space for each twenty storage stalls, plus two spaces for resident manager's office
Shopping center One space for each 200 square feet of gross floor area
Single-family residence Two spaces for dwelling unit
Skating rink One space for each 200 square feet of gross floor area
Theater, cinema One space for each three seats
Veterinarian, animal hospital Four spaces for each practitioner
Wholesale, merchandise One space for each 500 square feet of gross floor area
  (Ord. of 1993, § 602)
Sec. 46-390. - Handicapped parking requirements.
Each parking area of six or more spaces devoted to uses other than residential shall provide handicapped parking spaces (a minimum of twelve feet in width) counted as a part of the total parking required, in accordance with the following scale:
EXPAND
Total spaces Handicapped spaces
6—25 1
26—50 2
51—75 3
76—100 4
101—150 5
151—200 6
201—300 7
301—400 8
401—500 9
501+ 2 percent of total required
  (Ord. of 1993, § 603)
Sec. 46-391. - Parking space and lot design flexibility.
Individual parking spaces shall be a minimum of 160 square feet. The angle of design for parking spaces and parking lots may be 30, 45, 60, 90 degrees or parallel to the curb, provided that sufficient maneuvering isle width is provided subject to the approval of the zoning administrator.
(Ord. of 1993, § 604)
Sec. 46-392. - Minimum number of off-street loading spaces required.
(a)
On the same lot with every building, structure or part thereof, erected or occupied for manufacturing, storage, warehouse, truck freight terminal, goods display, department store, wholesale store, market, hotel, hospital, mortuary, laundry, dry cleaning, retail business or other uses similarly involving the receipt or distribution of vehicles, materials or merchandise, there shall be provided and maintained on the lot adequate space for the standing, loading and unloading services to avoid undue interference with public use of streets and alleys.
(b)
Such loading and unloading space, unless otherwise adequately provided for, shall be an area 12 feet by 60 feet, with 14-foot height clearance, and shall be provided according to the schedule in subsection (c) of this section.
(c)
For the uses described in subsection (a) of this section, one loading space shall be provided for the first 25,000 square feet of gross floor area or fractional part thereof. Uses in excess of 25,000 square feet shall provide loading spaces according to the following schedule:
EXPAND
Square feet Number of spaces
25,001—99,999 Two
100,000—159,999 Three
160,000—239,999 Four
240,000—349,999 Five
For each additional 100,000 or fraction thereof One additional
  (d)
All plans for off-street loading areas shall be subject to the approval of the zoning administrator.
(Ord. of 1993, § 605)
Sec. 46-393. - Parking and loading area design requirements.
(a)
Improvement of parking lots. All parking areas containing more than five spaces shall meet the following requirements:
(1)
They shall be graded to ensure proper drainage, surfaced with concrete or asphalt, and maintained in good condition free of obstructions.
(2)
Parking areas shall not be used for the sale, repair, dismantling or servicing of any vehicle, equipment, materials or supplies.
(3)
Each parking space shall be clearly marked, and directional arrows or signs shall be provided wherever necessary. Markers, directional arrows and signs shall be properly maintained at all times.
(4)
A parking lot pavement setback of ten feet from any public street right-of-way and five feet from any exterior property line shall be provided, except where access points and interconnections to other parcels have been approved.
(5)
The parking lot pavement setback shall be increased to 25 feet where such lot abuts a residential district. Concrete or other suitable curb stops shall be installed so as to prevent vehicle encroachment onto setback areas.
(6)
Not less than ten percent of the total area devoted to parking shall be landscaped open space.
(7)
Any lighting facilities installed shall be so arranged to prevent the direct illumination of adjacent residential properties or public streets.
(8)
A site plan indicating property lines, parking areas, location of parking spaces, pavement setbacks, drainage facilities, paving materials, access and other features required to ensure compliance with this article shall be submitted to the zoning administrator. A permit shall be required prior to the construction of new parking areas, or for the expansion or alteration of existing parking areas.
(b)
Curb cut and access specifications. Access from public streets to all parking areas, regardless of the number of parking spaces provided, shall meet the following requirements:
(1)
Curb cuts or access breaks for service drives, entrances and exits on public streets shall not be located within 50 feet of the intersections of two curblines, street pavement lines or such lines extended or any street intersection nor within 40 feet of another curb cut or access break on the same side of the street.
(2)
Curb cuts shall be no greater than 40 feet in width and no closer than 25 feet to any property line, unless common use of driveways for an abutting lot is required or approved by the city Engineer.
(3)
No more than two curb cuts or access breaks shall be permitted for any lot or parcel with a frontage of 200 feet or less on any one street.
(4)
All curb cuts or access breaks onto public streets, except for those serving single-family detached residences, shall require a permit from the zoning administrator.
(5)
Curb cuts for driveways that serve commercial, office or industrial zoning districts shall not be permitted to pass through residential zoning districts or to access alleys that abut a residential zoning district.
(6)
Where the side of an accessed public street or alley does not contain curbing, such curbing or other method of approved access control shall be provided.
(Ord. of 1993, § 606)
Sec. 46-394. - Parking areas must be appropriately zoned.
Parking areas, parking lots or parking garages which constitute the principal use of a lot shall only be permitted in NS, HB, CBD and M-1 zoning districts. In cases where parking areas, parking lots or parking garages exist or are proposed to serve as accessory parking for a particular building or use, regardless of whether such parking is required by this article, such land, area or lot, including all access drives, shall require the same or less restrictive zoning district as that within which such building or use it serves is located. Similarly, in cases where accessory parking serves a building or use which requires, or was approved as, a conditional use, such parking area and access drives shall require the same conditional use approval as that for which such conditional use or building it serves.
(Ord. of 1993, § 607)
Secs. 46-395—46-416. - Reserved.
