Chapter 10 - BUILDINGS AND BUILDING REGULATIONS[1]
Footnotes:
--- (1) ---
State Law reference— Municipal home rule, Ga. Const. art. IX, § II; O.C.G.A. § 36-35-1 et seq.; standards and requirements for construction, alteration, etc., of buildings and other structures, O.C.G.A. § 8-2-1 et seq.; building trade contractors, O.C.G.A. § 43-14-1 et seq.; enforcement of adopted codes, O.C.G.A. § 8-2-26; state minimum standards codes, O.C.G.A. § 8-2-21; county building, electrical, and other codes, O.C.G.A. § 36-13-1 et seq.; local government code enforcement boards, O.C.G.A. § 36-74-1 et seq.

ARTICLE I. - IN GENERAL

Sec. 10-1. - Fees.
All fees and charges imposed or due under this chapter and under the various construction codes adopted in this chapter shall be as provided in the city fee schedule.
(Code 1999, § 14-41; Ord. of 3-9-1976)
Secs. 10-2—10-20. - Reserved.
ARTICLE II. - BUILDING AND TECHNICAL CODES

Sec. 10-21. - Compliance.
It shall be unlawful for any person to engage in the construction or erection of any building, whether commercial, business or residential unless such construction is accomplished in strict compliance with state minimum standards codes, both mandatory and permissive, as set forth below.
(Code 1999, § 14-37)
Sec. 10-22. - Adopted by reference; copies to be made publicly available.
(a)
The city adopts, to the extent applicable in the city, as though fully set forth herein, the following state minimum standards codes and permissive codes, as set forth in O.C.G.A. §§ 8-2-20 and 8-2-21, as supplemented and amended by the state department of community affairs, and as may be amended by provisions of this chapter or of this Code generally:
(1)
International Building Code, 2006 Edition.
(2)
International Residential Code, 2006 Edition.
(3)
International Fire Code, 2006 Edition.
(4)
International Plumbing Code, 2006 Edition.
(5)
International Mechanical Code, 2006 Edition.
(6)
International Fuel Gas Code, 2009 Edition.
(7)
National Electrical Code, 2011 Edition.
(8)
International Energy Conservation Code, 2009 Edition.
(9)
International Property Maintenance Code, 2006 Edition.
(10)
International Existing Building Code, 2006 Edition.
(b)
Subsequent editions or amendments to the adopted publications and state amendments and errata shall become effective 30 days after the city council receives notice that copies of such publications have been obtained, unless the council within such 30-day period disapproves the subsequent edition or amendment.
(c)
A copy of each adopted code of technical regulations, as well as the adopting ordinance, shall be authenticated and recorded by the clerk and kept on file in the office of the clerk where they shall be available for public inspection.
(Code 1999, § 14-36)
Sec. 10-23. - Appendices to technical codes.
Appendices referenced in the code text of the technical codes shall be considered an integral part of the codes.
Sec. 10-24. - Referenced standards.
Standards referenced in the text of the technical codes shall be considered an integral part of the codes. If specific portions of a standard are denoted by code text, only those portions of the standard shall be enforced. Where code provisions conflict with a standard, the code provisions shall be enforced. Permissive and advisory provisions in a standard shall not be construed as mandatory.
Sec. 10-25. - Designated enforcement officials.
When reference is made to the duties of certain officials named in the various construction codes adopted by this article, the designated city official shall be deemed to be the responsible official for the enforcement of such codes.
(Code 1999, § 14-38)
Sec. 10-26. - Requirements not covered by code.
Any requirements necessary for the strength, stability or proper operation of an existing or proposed building, structure, electrical, gas, mechanical or plumbing system, or for the public safety, health and general welfare, not specifically covered by this Code or the other technical codes, shall be determined by the building official.
Sec. 10-27. - Alternate materials and methods.
The provisions of the technical codes are not intended to prevent the use of any material or method of construction not specifically prescribed by them, provided that any such alternate has been reviewed by the building official. The building official shall approve any such alternate, provided that the building official finds that the alternate for the purpose intended is at least the equivalent of that prescribed in the technical codes, in quality, strength, effectiveness, fire resistance, durability and safety. The building official shall require that sufficient evidence or proof be submitted to substantiate any claim made regarding the alternate.
Sec. 10-28. - Codes remedial in nature.
The city's technical codes are remedial in nature, and shall be construed to secure the beneficial interests and purposes thereof, which are public safety, health, and general welfare through structural strength, stability, sanitation, adequate light and ventilation, and safety to life and property from fire and other hazards attributed to the built environment including alteration, repair, removal, demolition, use and occupancy of buildings, structures, or premises, and by regulating the installation and maintenance of all electrical, gas, mechanical and plumbing systems.
Sec. 10-29. - Conflict of regulations.
Where in any specific case sections of the technical codes, of this Code, and of state or federal law or regulation specify different materials, methods of construction or other requirements, the most restrictive shall govern. Where there is a conflict between a general requirement and a specific requirement, the specific requirement shall be applicable.
Sec. 10-30. - Existing buildings to comply.
Alterations, repairs or rehabilitation work may be made to any existing structure, building, electrical, gas, mechanical or plumbing system without requiring the building, structure, plumbing, electrical, mechanical or gas system to comply with all the requirements of the technical codes provided that the alteration, repair or rehabilitation work conforms to the requirements of the technical codes for new construction. The building official shall determine the extent to which the existing system shall be made to conform to the requirements of the technical codes for new construction.
Sec. 10-31. - Change of occupancy.
If the occupancy classification of any existing building or structure is changed, the building, electrical, gas, mechanical and plumbing systems shall be made to conform to the intent of the technical codes as required by the building official.
Secs. 10-32—10-50. - Reserved.
ARTICLE III. - PERMITS

Sec. 10-51. - Required.
Any owner, authorized agent, or contractor who desires to construct, enlarge, alter, repair, move, demolish, or change the occupancy of a building or structure, or to erect, install, enlarge, alter, repair, remove, convert or replace any electrical, gas, mechanical, or plumbing system, the installation of which is regulated by the technical codes, or to cause any such work to be done, shall first make application to the building official and obtain the required permit for the work.
Sec. 10-52. - Contractors to hold valid state license.
No permit shall be issued to a contractor until the contractor provides proof of valid state licensure.
Sec. 10-53. - Work begun before issuance of permit.
Any person who commences any work on a building, structure, electrical, gas, mechanical or plumbing, etc., system before obtaining the necessary permits, shall be subject to a penalty of 100 percent of the usual permit fee in addition to the required permit fees.
Sec. 10-54. - Required notice to be included on permits; posting; providing copy to owner.
(a)
Pursuant to O.C.G.A. § 8-2-26, any building permit issued under this chapter to a general contractor or homebuilder for residential or commercial construction shall have prominently printed thereon at least one inch apart from any other text on the permit and in type size and boldness equal to or greater than any other type size and boldness in the body of the permit the following:
"The issuance of this permit authorizes improvements of the real property designated herein which improvements may subject such property to mechanics' and materialmen's liens pursuant to state law. In order to protect any interest in such property and to avoid encumbrances thereon, the owner or any person with an interest in such property should consider contacting an attorney or purchasing a consumer's guide to the lien laws which may be available at building supply home centers."
(b)
Pursuant to O.C.G.A. § 8-2-26, any person or entity which is issued a permit that authorizes improvements to new or existing residential or commercial real property shall be required to post a copy of such permit in a conspicuous place in the vicinity of such property where such improvements are being undertaken or deliver a copy of the permit to the property owner within ten days after the permit is received.
Sec. 10-55. - Work authorized.
A building, electrical, gas, mechanical or plumbing permit shall carry with it the right to construct or install the work, provided the same are shown on the drawings and set forth in the specifications filed with the application for the permit. Where these are not shown on the drawings and covered by the specifications submitted with the application, separate permits shall be required.
Sec. 10-56. - Minor repairs.
Ordinary minor repairs may be made with the approval of the building official without a permit, provided that such repairs shall not violate any of the provisions of the technical codes.
Sec. 10-57. - Information required.
Each application for a permit, with the required fee, shall be filed with the building official on a form furnished for that purpose, and shall contain a general description of the proposed work and its location. The application shall be signed by the owner or his authorized agent. The building permit application shall indicate the proposed occupancy of all parts of the building and of that portion of the site or lot, if any, not covered by the building; or structure, and shall contain such other information as may be required by the building official.
Sec. 10-58. - Time limitations.
An application for a permit for any proposed work shall be deemed to have been abandoned six months after the date of filing for the permit, unless before then a permit has been issued. One or more extensions of time for periods of not more than 90 days each may be allowed by the building official for the application, provided that the extension is requested in writing and justifiable cause is demonstrated.
Sec. 10-59. - Drawings and specifications.
When required by the building official, two or more copies of specifications, and of drawings drawn to scale with sufficient clarity and detail to indicate the nature and character of the work, shall accompany the application for a permit. Such drawings and specifications shall contain information, in the form of notes or otherwise, as to the quality of materials, where quality is essential to conformity with the technical codes. Such information shall be specific, and the technical codes shall not be cited as a whole or in part, nor shall the term "legal" or its equivalent be used as a substitute for specific information. All information, drawings, specifications and accompanying data shall bear the name and signature of the person responsible for the design.
Sec. 10-60. - Additional data.
The building official may require details, computations, stress diagrams, and other data necessary to describe the construction or installation and the basis of calculations. All drawings, specifications and accompanying data required by the building official to be prepared by an architect or engineer shall be affixed with their official seal.
Sec. 10-61. - Plan review.
The building official shall examine or cause to be examined each application for a permit and the accompanying documents, consisting of drawings, specifications, computations, and additional data, and shall ascertain by such examinations whether the construction indicted and described is in accordance with the requirements of the technical codes and all other pertinent laws or articles.
Sec. 10-62. - Building permit valuations.
If, in the opinion of the building official, the valuation of building, alteration, structure, electrical, gas, mechanical or plumbing systems appears to be underestimated on the application, permit shall be denied, unless the applicant can show detailed estimates to meet the approval of the building official. Permit valuations shall include total cost, such as electrical, gas, mechanical, plumbing equipment and other systems, including materials and labor.
Sec. 10-63. - Action on permits.
The building official shall act upon an application for a permit without unreasonable or unnecessary delay. If the building official is satisfied that the work described in an application for a permit and the contract documents filed therewith conform to the requirements of the technical codes and other pertinent laws and articles, he shall issue a permit to the applicant.
Sec. 10-64. - Refusal to issue permit.
If the application for a permit and the accompanying contract documents describing the work do not conform to the requirements of the technical codes or other pertinent laws or articles, the building official shall not issue a permit, but shall return the contract documents to the applicant with his refusal to issue such permit. Such refusal shall, when requested, be in writing and shall contain the reason for refusal.
Sec. 10-65. - Public right-of-way.
A permit shall not be given by the building official for the construction of any building, or for the alteration of any building where said building is to be changed and such change will affect the exterior walls, bays, balconies, or other appendages or projections fronting on any street, alley or public lane, or for the placing on any lot or premises of any building or structure removed from another lot or premises, unless the applicant has made application at the office of the director of public works for the lines of the public street on which he proposes to build, erect or locate said building; and it shall be the duty of the building official to see that the street lines are not encroached upon except as provided for in the city's building and construction codes.
Sec. 10-66. - Contractor's responsibilities.
It shall be the duty of every contractor who shall make contracts for the installation or repairs of building, structure, electrical, gas, mechanical, sprinkler or plumbing systems, for which a permit is required, to comply with state or local rules and regulations concerning licensing which the applicable governing authority may have adopted. In such case that the state requires a contractor to have obtained a state license before they are permitted to perform work, the contractor shall supply the local government with their license number before receiving a permit for work to be performed.
Sec. 10-67. - Posting of permit.
Work requiring a permit shall not commence until the permit holder or his agent posts the permit card in a conspicuous place on the premises. The permit shall be protected from the weather and located in such position as to permit the building official or representative to conveniently make the required entries thereon. This permit card shall be maintained in such position by the permit holder until the certificate of occupancy or completion is issued by the building official.
Sec. 10-68. - Permit intent.
A permit issued shall be construed to be a license to proceed with the work and not as authority to violate, cancel, alter, or set aside any of the provisions of the technical codes, nor shall issuance of a permit prevent the building official from thereafter requiring a correction of errors in plans, construction, or violations of this Code. Every permit issued shall become invalid unless the work authorized by such permit is commenced within six months after its issuance, or if the work authorized by such permit is suspended or abandoned for a period of six months after the time the worked is commenced. One or more extensions of time, for periods not more than 90 days each, may be allowed for the permit. The extension shall be requested in writing and justifiable cause demonstrated. Extensions shall be in writing by the building official.
Sec. 10-69. - Plans.
When the building official issues a permit, he shall enforce, in writing or by stamp, both sets of plans "Reviewed for Code Compliance." One set of drawings so reviewed shall be retained by the building official and the other set shall be returned to the applicant. The permitted drawings shall be kept at the site of work and shall be open to inspection by the building official or his authorized representative.
Sec. 10-70. - Self-inspection by plumbers and utility contractors.
The city is exempted from the provisions of O.C.G.A. § 8-2-26(d) relating to the self-inspection of certain water and sewer lines, and such provisions shall not be applicable in the city.
(Code 1999, § 14-1)
Secs. 10-71—10-98. - Reserved.
ARTICLE IV. - CERTIFICATES OF OCCUPANCY AND COMPLETION

Sec. 10-99. - Certificate required.
A new building shall not be occupied or a change made in the occupancy, nature or use of a building or part of a building until after the building official has issued a certificate of occupancy. The certificate shall not be issued until all required electrical, gas, mechanical, plumbing and fire protection systems have been inspected for compliance with the technical codes and other applicable laws and articles and released by the building official.
Sec. 10-100. - Issuance of certificate.
Upon satisfactory completion of construction of a building or structure and installation of electrical, gas, mechanical and plumbing systems in accordance with the technical codes, reviewed plans and specifications, and after the final inspection, the building official shall issue a certificate of occupancy stating the nature of the occupancy permitted, the number of persons for each floor when limited by law, and the allowable load per square foot for each floor in accordance with the provisions of the technical codes. The fee for issuance of the certificate shall be as set forth in the city's fee schedule.
Sec. 10-101. - Temporary partial occupancy.
A temporary partial certificate of occupancy may be issued for a portion of a building that may safely be occupied prior to final completion of the building.
Sec. 10-102. - Existing building certificate of occupancy.
A certificate of occupancy for any existing building may be obtained by applying to the building official and supplying the information and data necessary to determine compliance with the technical codes for the occupancy intended. Where necessary, in the opinion of the building official, two sets of detailed drawings, or a general inspection, or both, may be required. When, upon examination and inspection, it is found that the building conforms to the provisions of the technical codes and other applicable laws and articles for such occupancy, a certificate of occupancy shall be issued.
Sec. 10-103. - Certificate of completion.
Upon satisfactory completion of a building, structure, electrical, gas, mechanical or plumbing system, a certificate of completion may be issued. This certificate is proof that a structure or system is complete and for certain types of permits is released for use and may be connected to a utility system. This certificate does not grant authority to occupy or connect a building, such as a shell building, prior to the issuance of a certificate of occupancy. The fee for issuance of the certificate of completion shall be as provided in the city fee schedule.
Secs. 10-104—10-134. - Reserved.
ARTICLE V. - SERVICE UTILITIES

Sec. 10-135. - Approval of building official required.
(a)
No public utility may furnish temporary electrical, water or gas connection for construction purposes, unless the contractor has been issued a construction permit by the building official.
(b)
No public utility may furnish permanent electrical, water or gas connections until the contractor has been issued a certificate of occupancy by the building official.
(c)
No public utility may furnish power to a mobile home site until the owner has been issued either a building permit or a certificate of occupancy by the building official.
(Code 1999, § 14-41)
Sec. 10-136. - Water supply and sewage disposal facilities.
(a)
Building permits will not be issued until plans for water supply and sewage disposal have been approved by the county board of health.
(b)
Certificates of occupancy will not be issued until the completed water supply and sewage disposal facilities have been approved by the board of health.
(Code 1999, § 14-42)
Sec. 10-137. - Temporary connection.
The building official may authorize the temporary connection of the building or system to the utility source of energy, fuel or power for the purpose of testing building service systems or for use under a temporary certificate of occupancy.
Sec. 10-138. - Authority to disconnect.
The building official shall have the power to authorize disconnection of utility service to the building, structure of system regulated by the technical codes, in case of emergency where necessary to eliminate an immediate hazard to life or property. The building official shall notify the serving utility, and whenever possible the owner and occupant of the building, structure or service system of the decision to disconnect prior to taking such action. If not notified prior to disconnecting, the owner or occupant of the building, structure or service system shall be notified in writing, as soon as practical thereafter.
Secs. 10-139—10-159. - Reserved.
ARTICLE VI. - ADMINISTRATION AND ENFORCEMENT

Sec. 10-160. - Building official appointed to enforce chapter.
(a)
The city has created and established the office of building official. The building official is appointed by the mayor and city council and serves at their pleasure. The building official is charged with the duty of enforcement of this chapter and shall perform other duties as may be prescribed by the mayor and city council. The building official position may be filled by the city code enforcement officer.
(b)
In carrying out its duties under this chapter, the building official shall have the following specific duties, in addition to such other duties as may be assigned from time to time by the city council:
(1)
The building official shall receive applications and issue permits and certificates required by this chapter.
(2)
The building official shall make necessary inspections to see that the provisions of this chapter are met.
(3)
The building official shall enforce all laws relating to the construction, alteration, repair, installation, erection, removal, demolition, use, location, and maintenance of properties, buildings, equipment, appliances, or systems, except as may be otherwise provided for in other ordinances or regulatory measures.
(4)
The building official shall, when requested by proper authority, or when the interests of the city so require, make investigations in connection with matters referred to in this chapter and render written reports on the same.
(5)
The building official shall issue notices or orders as may be necessary to enforce compliance with this article, to remove illegal or unsafe conditions or to secure the necessary safeguards.
Sec. 10-161. - Records.
The building official shall keep comprehensive records of applications received, permits and certificates issued, inspections made, reports rendered, and notices or orders issued. All such records shall be open to public inspection at office hours observed by the building official but shall not be removed from the office of the director.
Sec. 10-162. - Contents and service of notice.
The notice shall include the following:
(1)
An enumeration of conditions which the building official has determined are in violation of this chapter.
(2)
An enumeration of remedial action required for each determined violation.
(3)
A specified period of time within which such remedial action shall be completed, such period of time for completion to be determined by the building official as the period of time reasonably required under the known circumstances for the completion of the remedial action.
(4)
A statement adequate to notify the person served that a failure to comply with the provisions of this chapter within the time specified in the notice is unlawful and the penalty for such failure.
a.
A copy of such notice shall be filed in the office of the director.
b.
Notice shall be deemed perfected if served upon the owner or occupant as may be appropriate in person or by certified mail with return receipt attached and posting a copy of the notice upon the property.
c.
Whenever the building official determines that property, buildings, systems, appliances, or equipment, or any work in connection therewith that is covered by this chapter is being erected, installed, altered, repaired, stored, maintained, or demolished in violation of this chapter, the building official shall serve a written notice or order upon the person responsible therefor directing the discontinuance of such illegal action and the remedying of the condition that is in violation.
Sec. 10-163. - Placarding premises.
(a)
The building official may place a dated and signed placard on property which is in violation of this chapter, and notify the owner of such property by certified mail, return receipt requested, to the owner's last known address that the building has been placarded. Such notice shall specify the reason therefor and the owner's right of appeal as provided in this chapter. Such placard shall contain the following words:
"The city has declared this building dangerous and unfit for human habitation. The use or habitation of this building is prohibited and unlawful."
(b)
It shall be unlawful for a person or persons to occupy the dwelling, structure, or premises or for an owner to allow occupancy of a dwelling, structure, or premises which has been placarded, if such dwelling, structure, or premises is, or becomes, vacant after placarding or, in all events, within 60 days from the date of placarding unless the violation has been corrected.
(c)
The posting of the placard and the recording of same in the records of the building official shall be notice to the general public that it is unlawful for any owner to allow the dwelling or structure to be occupied, as provided herein. No further notice shall be required to be given to any subsequent owner.
(d)
It shall be unlawful to deface, alter, destroy, cover, or remove such placards. The building official shall remove the placards when compliance with this section has been effected.
Sec. 10-164. - Stopping work.
Whenever the building official determines defective or illegal work is performed in violation of a provision or requirement of this chapter, it shall order, in writing, all further work to be stopped until such defective or illegal work is corrected.
Sec. 10-165. - Failure of owner to correct; abatement by city; lien on property.
In the event the owner or parties in interest fail to comply with an order to vacate and close or repair or demolish the dwelling, building, or structure and clean the premises, or remedy any other condition found to exist in violation of this chapter or any other relevant ordinance of the city, the city may proceed to abate the nuisance as provided in this Code and by state law.
