Chapter 38 - STREETS, SIDEWALKS AND OTHER PUBLIC PLACES[1]
Footnotes:
--- (1) ---
State Law reference— Municipal authority to grant right to erect obstructions in streets, O.C.G.A. § 36-30-10; enclosures of lanes or alleys, O.C.G.A. § 36-30-11; municipal street improvements, O.C.G.A. § 36-39-1 et seq.

ARTICLE I. - IN GENERAL

Sec. 38-1. - Construction and maintenance.
All streets, sidewalks, alleys and other public ways in the city shall be constructed and maintained in accordance with plans and specifications promulgated therefor by the mayor and council and on file in the office of the city clerk.
(Code 1999, § 58-2)
Secs. 38-2—38-20. - Reserved.
ARTICLE II. - USE REGULATIONS

Sec. 38-21. - Use of bicycles and skateboards on sidewalks and other walking areas.
The use of bicycles and skateboards on the sidewalks and other public walking areas of the city is prohibited.
(Code 1999, § 58-1; Ord. of 9-10-1996)
Sec. 38-22. - Private use of public sidewalks.
(a)
Except as provided herein, it shall be unlawful for any person, firm or corporation to privately use the public sidewalk including but not limited to as space for the display of goods or merchandise for sale or to write and make any sign or advertisement on any such sidewalk.
(b)
Notwithstanding the foregoing, any person who owns property or their tenants, located in the central business district (CBD) as defined by the City of Clayton Code of Ordinances and the official zoning map, and whose building façade abuts a public sidewalk, upon conditions outlined herein, shall be allowed the exclusive of a maximum width of 36 inches of the public sidewalk ("area of use") as needed for the exclusive display of temporary sidewalk signage (one small sandwich board or chalk board not to exceed 16 square feet of area per side) and decorative features including but not limited to benches, flower pots, two person table and chairs, and other decorative features by the owner of the building or the owner's tenants. The area of use allowed for the decorative features shall be measured from the property line parallel with the façade of the business and shall be located within the property lines running perpendicular to the area of use of the licensed premises. The decorative features as provided herein are also conditioned upon there being a minimum unencumbered pedestrian use which shall measure 60 inches between the allowed encroachment and the street curb (or the street pavement if there is no curb). Under no circumstances shall the area of usage or display occur outside an area 36 inches from the building/structure or 36 inches from the outer curtilage area where the public sidewalk abuts the public street. As a further condition to being allowed the exclusive use and encroachment upon the public sidewalk. The owner and owner's tenant agree to hold harmless the City of Clayton City Council, it's members, employees, officers or agents from any claims, demands, rights, causes of action, liability, culpability or burden for themselves, tenants, employees, or the public at large, for damage, destruction, injury, or death to personal property, belonging(s) or pets and animals. It is further conditioned upon the owner and owner's tenants applying for a sidewalk permit as to said decorative features and paying an annual sidewalk permitting fee of $10.00. So long as the decorative features being allowed the encroachment meet the conditions and limitations as provided herein, additionally no such items shall be displayed onto or upon the public sidewalk that have a minimum age requirement, for purchase or observation, of 18 years of age or older such as vulgar or sexually related materials, alcoholic or tobacco related materials, etc.
(c)
Notwithstanding the foregoing, any vendor who operates vendor boxes, including, but not limited to, vendor boxes containing real estate booklets or newspapers, shall be allowed the non-exclusive use up to a maximum width of 36 inches of the public sidewalk ("area of use"), for the display and placement of said vendor boxes on or upon public sidewalks which do not adjoin the façade of a privately owned building within the central business district (CBD) as defined by the City of Clayton Code of Ordinances and the official zoning map, and upon further conditions as further outlined herein. The area of use allowed for the vendor boxes shall begin at the furthest point of the sidewalk from the street and have a maximum width of 36 inches of public sidewalk. The display of the vendor boxes as provided herein is also conditioned upon there being a minimum unencumbered width of the remaining part of the public sidewalk to allow unencumbered pedestrian use which shall measure 60 inches between the allowed encroachment and the street curb (or the street pavement if there is no curb). As a further condition to being allowed to use the area of use, the vendor agrees to hold harmless the City of Clayton, Georgia from any and all claims of personal injury and property damage up to and including death, that may occur to vendor or any third party due to placement of vendor boxes and usage. The vendor further agrees to indemnify the City of Clayton City Council, it's members, employees, officers or agents from any claims, demands, rights, causes of action, liability, culpability or burden for themselves, property owners, tenants, employees, or the public at large, for damage, destruction, injury, or death to personal property, belong(s) or pets and animals. The allowed encroachment is further conditioned upon the vender applying for a sidewalk permit as to said vendor boxes and paying an annual sidewalk permitting fee of $5.00 for each specific location that vendor boxes are located. So long as the vendor boxes being allowed the encroachment to meet the conditions and limitations as provided herein, then the allowed encroachment shall not be deemed to be an impermissible encroachment of the public sidewalks and shall not deemed to be an obstruction of the public sidewalks.
(d)
In the event that any person, firm, partnership, limited liability company, or corporation is observed violating this section. The first violation, said vendor shall receive a written warning conditioned upon the violator complying with the requirements of this ordinance and removing any obstruction from the public sidewalk. Penalties and fines for continued violation shall be at the discretion of the municipal judge who possesses the authority to fix punishment in accordance with the city Charter, ordinances, and state law.
( Ord. of 8-18-2020 )
Editor's note— An ordinance of August 18, 2020 , repealed the former § 38-22, and enacted a new § 38-22 as set out herein. The former § 38-22 pertained to storage or sale of goods, wares and merchandise or services and derived from the Code of 1999, § 58-3 and an ordinance of September 13, 1966.
Secs. 38-23—38-47. - Reserved.
ARTICLE III. - PARADES AND PROCESSIONS[2]
Footnotes:
--- (2) ---
State Law reference— Authority to regulate or prohibit processions or assemblages on the highways, O.C.G.A. § 40-6-371.

DIVISION 1. - GENERALLY

Sec. 38-48. - Enforcement.
Nothing contained in this article shall prohibit the authority of any officer to arrest a person engaged in any acts or activities for which a permit has been granted under this article, if the conduct of such person violates the laws, or if such person obstructs the public streets and sidewalks of the city or engages in acts that cause a breach of the peace.
(Code 1999, § 42-36)
Sec. 38-49. - Dispersal of activity.
Whenever the free passage of any street or sidewalk in the city shall be obstructed by a crowd, congregation, parade, meeting, assembly or procession, or the conduct of two or more persons, except as authorized by any permit issued pursuant to this article, the persons comprising such group shall disperse or move when directed to do so by a police officer. It is unlawful for any person to refuse such direction to move or disperse and such refusal shall be a violation of this article.
(Code 1999, § 42-37)
Secs. 38-50—38-71. - Reserved.
DIVISION 2. - PERMIT

Sec. 38-72. - Required.
It is unlawful for any person to organize or hold or participate in any parade, meeting, assembly or procession of persons or vehicles on the streets or sidewalks within the city unless such activity shall have first been authorized by a written permit therefor.
(Code 1999, § 42-61; Ord. No. 91-1, § 1, 2-12-1991)
Sec. 38-73. - Application.
Any person desiring a permit required by the provisions of this division shall make application therefor to the chief of police, which application shall contain the following information:
(1)
The name and local and permanent address of the applicant.
(2)
The name and address of the person the applicant represents.
(3)
The exact time and date of commencement and termination of each act or activity desired.
(4)
The purpose, location and route of such act or activity, if applicable.
(5)
The person, group, association or body to be authorized under the permit to do such act or activity and the number of persons to participate.
(6)
The age of any minors who may participate in such activity, and the name of the person who will be responsible for such minors.
(7)
Such other relevant information as the chief of police may require for the investigation of the applicant.
(Code 1999, § 42-62)
Sec. 38-74. - Determination of issuance.
In deciding whether to issue a permit under the provisions of this division, the chief of police shall consider:
(1)
The number of persons to participate;
(2)
Anticipated traffic conditions at the time and date proposed for the activity;
(3)
Schedule of other similar activities for which permits may have been issued;
(4)
Adequacy of adult supervision for any minors scheduled to participate;
(5)
Availability of city personnel whose presence on duty may be required by the activity and by the necessity to protect the general public; and
(6)
Adequacy of public facilities in the location proposed for the activity to accommodate the proposed activity and the normal public use of public facilities in the proposed location.
(Code 1999, § 42-63)
Sec. 38-75. - Issuance.
The permit required by this division shall be issued by the chief of police upon application therefor; provided, however, that such permit may be denied or refused if it shall appear that the applicant therefor or the act or activity requested by such application shall be violative of law.
(Code 1999, § 42-64)
Sec. 38-76. - Denial; modifications.
(a)
If the chief of police determines from the application for a permit under this division that the proposed parade or march will unduly interfere with and impede traffic on the public streets, alleys and ways over which the parade or march will pass, or the public streets, alleys and ways that intersect the public streets, alleys and ways over which the parade or march will pass, he shall so advise the applicant in writing and give, in reasonable details, the reason he will not issue a permit for such parade or march, and shall suggest such modifications in the application which, if made, will not unreasonably interfere with and impede normal traffic on the public streets, alleys and ways by such parade or march. Such modifications may include:
(1)
Changing or altering the route of the march or parade;
(2)
Changing the date or time of day the parade or march will be made;
(3)
Changing or altering the length of the march or parade;
(4)
Changing the width of the parade or march (i.e., from requiring the whole width of the public street, alley or way to a lesser part of the width) to be specified;
(5)
Any combination of the foregoing suggested areas of modifications; and
(6)
Any other modification that will cause such parade or march to not unduly interfere with and impede normal traffic on such public streets, alleys and ways of the city.
(b)
If such suggested modifications shall be incorporated in an amended application for a permit, the chief of police shall forthwith issue a permit for such parade or march.
(Code 1999, § 42-65)
Sec. 38-77. - Deviation from conditions of permit.
It is unlawful for any person participating in any act or activity for which a permit has been granted under the provisions of this division to deviate from or alter any of the terms or conditions of such permit.
(Code 1999, § 42-66)
Sec. 38-78. - Display.
Every person having a permit issued under the provisions of this division shall have such permit in his possession during the activity permitted thereby, and shall display such permit upon the request of any law enforcement officer. Failure to display such permit shall be deemed a misdemeanor.
(Code 1999, § 42-67)
Sec. 38-79. - Revocation.
Any permit issued under the provisions of this division may be revoked by the chief of police for the violation by the permittee of any law.
(Code 1999, § 42-68)
Sec. 38-80. - Contents; filing of copy.
Upon issuance of a permit required by this division, the permit shall contain therein all information contained in the application therefor and shall be signed by the chief of police, and a signed copy of such permit shall be kept with the application, both on file in the office of the chief of police.
(Code 1999, § 42-69)
Secs. 38-81—38-89. - Reserved.
DIVISION 3. - CONSTRUCTION ACTIVITY

Sec. 38-90. - Construction activity involving public right-of-way encroachment.
This section is to provide for the safety and welfare of the citizens of the city and the public where interactions with projects or activities involving construction and right-of-way encroachment may occur.
(1)
A permit shall be required for activities requiring the closing or altering of normal traffic flow or normal public access to the sidewalks within the city. Such permit shall be obtained at city hall for a fee amount approved by the city council. The fee shall include costs that shall be incurred for signage and publication of notice of street or sidewalk closing one week in advance of any proposed closing.
(2)
It shall be unlawful for construction activity, regardless of the type, to occur that encroaches upon public access to streets and sidewalks that does not meet and provide the following requirements:
a.
Parking for activity vehicles or equipment shall not occupy more than two public parking spaces at any given time, a provisional parking permit is required at a fee of $50.00 per day, per space utilized. No additional parking spaces may be occupied over and above these two without a request having first being presented to and approved by the mayor and council (such permission would be subject to such additional fees and time limitations as determined by the council);
b.
Activities that require the closing of a city street or section thereof, shall provide safety and directional equipment to include safety cones, reflective barrels and barricades for the closure. The permittee shall also provide a minimum of two off-duty certified state law enforcement officers, at permittees expense, posted at both sides of the closure to safely redirect traffic and maintain safety at the activity site.
c.
Activities that require the closing of the sidewalk shall provide safety cones, safety tape, and a minimum of two personnel directing pedestrians safely around the activity site;
d.
In the event that activity will require materials or equipment to be suspended by cable or moved overhead of the public, all areas where this may occur will be roped off with safety devices and activity personnel will be present to keep the public at a safe distance from activity.
(3)
Allowable hours and times of operation. This division shall only apply to the central business district within the city. Due to the congestion of the public and vehicles that occurs during the end of week business days within this confined area, construction activities shall only occur between the days of Sunday and Thursday.
(4)
Advanced notice required. All activity that will require the closing of a city street or section thereof, sidewalk or section thereof, shall be required to obtain a permit for such closure ten days in advance of closure to allow for public notification.
(Ord. of 7-25-2018(1) )
Secs. 38-91—38-100. - Reserved.
new
ARTICLE IV. - PARKING AND SIGNAGE ON CITY OWNED AND LEASED PROPERTY

Sec. 38-101. - Definitions.
new
The following terms shall be understood to have the following corresponding meanings when utilized in this article:
Advertising vehicle means any vehicle that has attached thereto or located thereon a private sign. This provision does not apply to a placard attached to a vehicular door, bumper stickers, lettering on vehicle windows, car top signs, or custom paint or "wraps" on a vehicle, providing the vehicle is properly situated in a single parking space during normal business/operating hours, and the driver and/or occupant(s) is conducting business and/or utilizing a service or amenity provided at an adjacent government facility.
Council means the city council of the City of Clayton, Georgia.
Parking areas means any city-owned or city-leased property set aside and/or designated for vehicular parking by the city manager or designee.
Parking space means any space within a parking area set aside for parking vehicles. Parking spaces shall not include areas within drive aisles, fire lanes, crosswalks, emergency exits or routes or any area not otherwise designated for parking.
Parking violations means the stopping or standing of a vehicle, whether occupied or not, where such vehicle is parking in violation of, or contrary to, the posted notice in the parking space or parking area, upon the city complex or city properties or where such vehicle obstructs a drive aisle, fire lane, crosswalk, emergency exit or route, or is parked in an area not designated for parking.
Posting, post, or posted means the installation of a traffic control device specifically regulating the parking of vehicles in or upon the city complex or city properties.
Private sign means any object, fixture, placard, or device of any size or shape which is used to advertise, identify, display, direct or attract attention to an object, person, institution, organization, business, product, service, place, activity, opinion, or which identifies or promotes any person or event related to any of the foregoing.
Traffic control device means the governmental sign, notice, or markings which conform to the manual and specifications of the department of transportation that are placed, erected, or painted on the surface or object, upon which there is information setting forth the lawful use, restrictions, prohibition, or regulations of the use of the parking area or parking space. (These devices are commonly referred to as no parking or tow away zone signs.)
Unauthorized overnight parking means vehicular parking between 10:00 p.m. and 6:00 a.m. of any non-government licensed/plated vehicle on city property (except as otherwise authorized by the city) that is not performing or conducting city business, and not parked in a properly designated location.
Vehicle means any device in, upon, or by which any person or property may be transported or drawn, including, but not limited to, automobiles, trucks, bicycles, motorcycles, tractors, buses, low speed vehicles, golf carts, and trailers.
( Ord. No. 2021-02 , § 2, 7-20-2021)
Sec. 38-102. - Posting of private signs on city property prohibited.
new
No private signs may be installed in the ground or affixed to structures or flora on city-owned or city-leased property or rights-of-way without the prior approval of the city.
( Ord. No. 2021-02 , § 3, 7-20-2021)
Sec. 38-103. - Property subject to parking regulation.
new
The board hereby designates the areas provided herein, as follows:
(1)
The city complex and city properties are hereby restricted from any oversized vehicles, advertising vehicles, and non-government licensed/plate vehicular overnight parking except when such vehicles are contracted with the City of Clayton or otherwise conducting authorized governmental business.
(2)
All other city properties are hereby restricted from advertising vehicles unless such vehicles are a contracted vendor of the city or part of a special event permit from the city.
(3)
All other portions of city property not set aside for the parking of vehicles, parking areas, or parking spaces are hereby restricted from vehicular parking to include any drive aisle, fire lane, crosswalk, sidewalk, bike path, pedestrian way, emergency exit or route or in any area other not designated for vehicular parking.
( Ord. No. 2021-02 , § 4, 7-20-2021)
Sec. 38-104. - Posting of property subject to parking regulation.
new
This article shall be effective upon any city owned or leased property where a traffic control device regulating parking is erected. The board hereby authorizes the city manager or his or her designee to erect traffic control devices to effectuate the intent of this article in accordance with applicable laws.
( Ord. No. 2021-02 , § 5, 7-20-2021)
Sec. 38-105. - Violations/penalties.
new
It shall be unlawful for any person to post a private sign or park a vehicle in or upon the city complex or any other city properties, contrary to the provisions contained herein. Private sign or parking violations as defined herein shall be punishable by a civil fine of $25.00 per day and are otherwise subject to the provisions of O.C.G.A. § 40-6-252, including that section's fines and other enforcement related procedures. Any citations issued shall be in compliance with O.C.G.A. § 40-6-252.
( Ord. No. 2021-02 , § 6, 7-20-2021)
Sec. 38-106. - Removal of private signs and vehicles parked in violation of this article.
new
In addition to the civil penalties herein established, the city manager or his designee, or any city police officer, may cause:
(1)
Any private sign installed on city properties in violation of this article to be immediately removed and stored for up to three working days. Signs may be claimed during the three-day period, after which signs may be disposed.
(2)
Any vehicle parked in violation of this article to be towed; and/or
(3)
Any private sign in violation of this article to be removed.
( Ord. No. 2021-02 , § 7, 7-20-2021)
