ARTICLE IV. - RETAIL SALES OF DISTILLED SPIRITS FOR CONSUMPTION ON THE PREMISES[3]

Footnotes:
--- (3) ---
State Law reference— Retail sales of distilled spirits by the drink, O.C.G.A. § 3-4-90 et seq.

Sec. 4-140. - Locations where permitted.
No distilled spirits may be sold by the drink for consumption on the premises where sold except:
(1)
At an eating establishment having an active on-premises consumption license for the proper variety of alcoholic beverages served and serving prepared food and shall provide the required kitchen and food service equipment as defined in section 4-1, "Eating establishment" and "Full-service kitchen."
(2)
An indoor or outdoor commercial recreation establishment that provides food as outlined with an "eating establishment" as provided in section 4-1.
(3)
In an indoor publicly owned civic or cultural center deriving at least 70 percent of its sales from operational activities other than alcohol sales. The remaining 30 percent must be that of 50 percent food sales.
(4)
Otherwise as permitted in this chapter (i.e. public accommodations in room service, special events/festivals etc.).
(5)
Such location shall be in compliance with all codes, regulations and requirements of the State of Georgia and this chapter.
(Ord. of 7-16-2019 )
Sec. 4-141. - Investigative and administrative costs.
Each application for a license under this article shall be accompanied by a certified check for the full amount of the license fee, together with a separate certified check or cash in the amount of $250.00 to defray investigative and administrative costs. If the application is denied and the license refused, or if the applicant withdraws his/her application prior to it being issued the deposit representing the license fee shall be refunded; those costs associated with investigation and administrative purposes shall not be returned. However, any person applying for more than one license shall pay only one fee to defray investigative and administrative expenses, which fee shall be the largest of the investigative and administrative fees authorized under this chapter shall be retained. Any applicant for a license under this article who has in existence at the time of making the new application an existing license under this article shall pay no investigative and administrative costs.
(Ord. of 7-16-2019 )
Sec. 4-142. - Advertising in official gazette of county.
A notice of each new application to sell distilled spirits shall be advertised in the official gazette of the county, such notice shall be published at least once during the 30 days immediately preceding the filing of the application for license. Such notice shall comply with the requirements of O.C.G.A § 3-4-27.
(Ord. of 7-16-2019 )
Sec. 4-143. - Hours and days of sale.
(a)
Distilled spirits shall not be sold for consumption on the premises except between the hours of 8:00 a.m. until 12 a.m. midnight Monday through Saturday.
(b)
Distilled spirits shall not be sold for consumption at any time in violation of state law or any local ordinance or regulation.
(c)
The sale of distilled spirits for consumption on the premises is permitted on Sundays from 12:30 p.m. until 12:00 a.m. midnight.
(d)
Distilled spirits may be sold for consumption on the premises from 12:00 midnight to 1:55 a.m. on any New Year's Day, January 1, of any year.
(Ord. of 7-16-2019 )
Sec. 4-144. - Sale on election days.
As authorized by O.C.G.A. § 3-3-20, licensees at all locations where alcoholic beverages are sold may open their places of business for such sales on all election days.
(Ord. of 7-16-2019 )
Secs. 4-145—4-170. - Reserved.
