ARTICLE VII. - PAWNSHOPS AND PRECIOUS METAL EXCHANGES[7]

Footnotes:
--- (7) ---
State Law reference— Pawnbrokers generally, O.C.G.A. § 44-12-130 et seq.; dealers in precious metals and gems, O.C.G.A. § 43-37-1 et seq.

Sec. 12-316. - Definitions.
The following words, terms and phrases, when used in this article, shall have the meanings ascribed to them in this section, except where the context clearly indicates a different meaning:
Pawnbroker means any person engaged in whole or in part in the business of lending money on the security of pledged goods, or in the business of purchasing tangible personal property on the condition that it may be redeemed or repurchased by the seller for a fixed price within a fixed period of time, or in the business of purchasing tangible personal property from persons or sources other than manufacturers or licensed dealers as a part of or in conjunction with the business activities described in this definition.
Precious metal exchange establishment and precious metal exchange mean any person engaged in the business of purchasing precious metals or goods made from precious metals from persons or sources other than manufacturers, manufacturers' representatives, or other dealers in precious metals and any person engaged in any other business if, in conjunction with such business, precious metals or goods made from precious metals are purchased from persons or sources other than manufacturers, manufacturers' representatives, or other dealers in precious metals where such purchase is for resale in its original form or as changed by remounting, melting, re-forming, remolding, or recasting or for resale as scrap or in bulk.
Sec. 12-317. - License required; fees.
Each pawnbroker or precious metal exchange establishment doing business within this municipality shall be required to obtain a license from the city clerk in the manner specified in this article. Application for licensure shall be as provided for occupational tax registration. The application for licensure as a pawnbroker or precious metal exchange establishment shall be accompanied by a nonrefundable administrative fee, to defray in part the city's costs in conducting the investigation required herein, and an annual business license fee, both in amounts established by the city council. If the application for license is denied, the annual business license fee shall be refunded.
Sec. 12-318. - Review of application.
No action on any application for a pawnbroker or precious metal exchange establishment's license shall be taken by the city council until the chief of police has reviewed the application, conducted a criminal background check, and forwarded his recommendation thereon to the city clerk, in the manner specified in this chapter.
Sec. 12-319. - Limitation on issuance.
No pawnbroker or precious metal exchange establishment's license shall be issued to any person who has been convicted of the offense of receiving stolen goods or of burglary or robbery.
Sec. 12-320. - Pawnbroker recordkeeping and reporting requirements.
(a)
Each pawnbroker licensed hereunder shall furnish to the police chief each week a list of every article pledged with him or sold to him during the previous week, giving a full and accurate description of the article, from whom it was received, and the hour of the day received.
(b)
Every pawnbroker shall maintain a permanent record book in which shall be entered in legible English at the time of each loan, purchase, or sale:
(1)
The date of the transaction;
(2)
The name of the person conducting the transaction;
(3)
The name, age, and address of the customer; a description of the general appearance of the customer; and the distinctive number from the customer's driver's license or other similar identification card;
(4)
An identification and description of the pledged or purchased goods, including, if reasonably available, the serial, model, or other number, and all identifying marks inscribed thereon;
(5)
The number of the receipt or pawn ticket;
(6)
The price paid or the amount loaned;
(7)
If payment is made by check, the number of the check issued for the purchase price or loan;
(8)
The maturity date of the transaction; and
(9)
The signature of the customer.
Entries shall appear in ink and shall be in chronological order. No blank lines may be left between entries. No obliterations, alterations, or erasures may be made. Corrections shall be made by drawing a line of ink through the entry without destroying its legibility. The book shall be open to the inspection of any duly authorized law enforcement officer during the ordinary hours of business or at any reasonable time.
(c)
The record of each pawn or purchase transaction provided for in this section shall be maintained for a period of not less than four years.
State Law reference— Similar provisions, O.C.G.A. §§ 44-12-132—44-12-134.
Sec. 12-321. - Precious metals exchange recordkeeping and reporting requirements.
(a)
Every dealer in precious metals shall maintain a book, in permanent form, in which shall be entered at the time of each purchase of precious metals or goods made from precious metals the following:
(1)
The date and time of the purchase;
(2)
The name of the person making the purchase from the seller;
(3)
The name, age, and address of the seller of the items purchased and the distinctive number from such seller's driver's license or other similar identification card containing a photo of the seller;
(4)
A clear and accurate identification and description of the purchased goods, including the serial, model, or other number, and all identifying marks inscribed thereon;
(5)
The price paid for the goods purchased;
(6)
The number of the check issued for the purchase price, if payment is made by check; and
(7)
The signature of the seller.
(b)
The permanent record book required by this section shall be in legible English. Entries shall appear in chronological order. No blank lines may be left between entries. No obliterations, alterations, or erasures may be made. Corrections shall be made by drawing a line of ink through the entry without destroying its legibility. The book shall be maintained for each purchase of precious metals or goods made from precious metals for at least two years. The book shall be open to the inspection of any duly authorized law enforcement officer during the ordinary hours of business or at any reasonable time.
(c)
Dealers exclusively engaged in buying or exchanging for merchandise scrap dental gold and silver from licensed dentists by registered or certified mail or statutory overnight delivery may record the post office record of the mailed parcel in lieu of the seller's age and driver's license number and seller's signature as required in this section.
(d)
Every dealer in precious metals shall make a report in writing to the chief of police, on forms approved by the city council, of all precious metals or goods made from precious metals purchased on the day previous to the date of the report. The report shall contain the information specified in this section and shall be typewritten or handwritten in legible English and mailed or delivered to the chief of police within 24 hours after the day on which the transactions occurred.
State Law reference— Similar provisions, O.C.G.A. §§ 43-37-3, 43-37-4.
Sec. 12-322. - Weapons.
No pawnbroker or precious metal exchange establishment shall receive as a pledge or purchase any revolver, pistol, blackjack, or sawed-off shotgun, and no pawnbroker or precious metal exchange establishment shall display in his window or shop any such weapons for sale.
Sec. 12-323. - Minors.
No pawnbroker or precious metal exchange establishment shall have any business dealings as a pawnbroker or precious metal exchange establishment with a minor, nor shall a pawnbroker or precious metal exchange establishment's license be issued to a minor, nor shall a pawnbroker or precious metal exchange establishment employ a minor to assist him in his business.
Sec. 12-324. - Stolen goods.
It shall be the duty of every pawnbroker or precious metal exchange establishment to report to the police any article pledged with him, or which is sought to be pledged with him, if he shall have reason to believe that the article was stolen or lost and found by the person attempting to pledge it in the case of a lost article.
Secs. 12-325—12-351. - Reserved.
