DIVISION 2. - R-1, SINGLE-FAMILY RESIDENTIAL DISTRICT

Sec. 46-70. - Purpose and intent.
The R-1 single-family residential district is intended to establish and preserve quiet, stable single-family residential neighborhoods at low densities (up to approximately 2.9 units per acre) free from other uses except those which are compatible with and convenient to the residents of such a district.
(Ord. of 1993, § 901)
Sec. 46-71. - Permitted uses.
In R-1 single-family residential district, the following uses are permitted:
(1)
Single-family detached dwellings not including mobile or manufactured homes.
(2)
Accessory buildings and uses customarily incidental to the principal residential use of the property, including guest houses (not accessory apartments) home gardens, non-commercial greenhouses, and shelters or enclosures for household pets. Livestock and poultry raising activities are specifically prohibited.
(3)
Churches, temples, synagogues and places of worship, and their solely owned and operated customary accessory facilities, including cemeteries, provided such uses are located on a lot with a minimum area of one acre, principal buildings are setback a minimum of 50 feet from any property line, and parking areas are located outside of the required front yard and separated from any side or rear property line by a minimum six-foot high, opaque fence or wall, or a densely planted landscape strip of at least ten feet in width.
(4)
Home occupations as limited in section 46-43.
(5)
Parks, playgrounds, community centers, tennis courts, swimming pools, golf courses and other recreational facilities, operated on a nonprofit basis.
(6)
Public and semi-public buildings and uses.
(7)
Schools, public elementary, middle and secondary.
(8)
Schools, parochial and private offering courses in general education substantially similar to that of a public school, not offered for profit.
(Ord. of 1993, § 902)
Sec. 46-72. - Area, height, density and placement requirements.
Area, height, density and placement requirements shall be as specified in sections 46-30 and 46-31.
(Ord. of 1993, § 903)
Secs. 46-73—46-102. - Reserved.
