ARTICLE II. - HOMESTEAD EXEMPTION[2]

Footnotes:
--- (2) ---
Editor's note— Printed herein is 1986 Ga. Laws (Act. No. 1190), p. 4778). Amendments to the original act are indicated by parenthetical history notes following amended provisions. The absence of a history note indicates that the provision remains unchanged from the original act. Affidavits and notices of intent that accompanied the original and amending acts have been omitted. A uniform system of headings and catchlines has been used. Obvious misspellings have been corrected without notation and material in brackets has been added, if necessary, for clarity.

Sec. 1. - Homestead defined.
As used in this Act, the term "homestead" means a homestead as defined and qualified in O.C.G.A. § 48-5-40.
Sec. 2. - Granted; amounts.
(a)
Each resident of the City of Clayton, Georgia, is granted an exemption on the resident's homestead from all City of Clayton ad valorem taxes, including ad valorem taxes to pay interest on and retire bonded indebtedness, in the amount of $2,000.00.
(b)
Each resident of the City of Clayton, Georgia, who is 65 years of age or over is granted an exemption on the resident's homestead from all City of Clayton ad valorem taxes, including ad valorem taxes to pay interest on and retire bonded indebtedness, in the amount of $4,000.00. The homestead exemption granted by this subsection shall be in lieu of and not in addition to the homestead exemption provided by subsection (a) of this section.
Sec. 3. - Application; forms; claim and return.
The governing authority of the City of Clayton or its designee shall provide application forms for the homestead exemptions granted by this Act and may require such information and documentation as may be reasonably necessary to determine the eligibility of an applicant for any such homestead exemption. The homestead exemptions granted by this Act shall be claimed and returned as provided in O.C.G.A. § 48-5-50.1. It shall be the duty of any person granted a homestead exemption authorized by this Act to notify the governing authority of the City of Clayton or its designee in the event the person for any reason becomes ineligible for such exemption.
Sec. 4. - Applicability.
The homestead exemption granted by this Act shall apply to all taxable years beginning after December 31, 1986.
