Chapter 28 - TELECOMMUNICATIONS
ARTICLE I. - IN GENERAL

Sec. 28-1. - Definitions.
For purposes of the article, the following words, terms, phrases, and their derivations shall have the meanings set forth in this section, unless the context clearly indicates that another meaning is intended. When not inconsistent with the context, words used in the present tense include the future, words used in the plural number include the singular number and words used in the singular number include the plural number.
Cable services means "cable services" as defined in the Communications Act of 1934, as amended by the Cable Communications Policy Act of 1984, the Cable Television Consumer Protection and Competition Act of 1992, the Telecommunications Act of 1996, and as may be further amended from time to time (the "Cable Act"), but does not include telecommunications services. In the event that the term "cable services" is no longer defined in the Cable Act or that the definition in the Cable Act otherwise becomes inapplicable, the term "cable services" shall mean "cable services" as defined in the Cable Act immediately prior to such term no longer being defined in the Cable Act or such definition otherwise becoming inapplicable.
Cable system means any "cable system" as defined in the Cable Act.
Franchise means an initial authorization, or renewal thereof, issued by the City, whether such authorization is designated as a franchise, permit, license, resolution, contract, certificate, agreement or otherwise, which authorizes the occupation and use of the streets to provide cable services through a cable system or open video system.
Grantee means the legal entity to which is granted the right, authority and responsibility to construct, install, operate and maintain a system of equipment as necessary to furnish, supply and distribute cable services to inhabitants within the franchise area.
Open video system means "open video system" as defined by 47 CFR 76.1500(a).
Person means any individual or any association, firm, partnership, joint venture, corporation or other legally recognized entity, whether for profit or not for profit, but shall not mean the City.
Streets means the surface of, as well as the spaces above and below, any and all streets, alleyways, avenues, highways, boulevards, driveways, bridges, tunnels, parks, parkways, public grounds or waters, and other public rights-of-way within or belonging to the City.
Telecommunications services means "telecommunications service" as defined by 47 USC 153(46) of the Communications Act of 1934, as amended by the Telecommunications Act of 1996, but does not include cable services. In the event that the term "telecommunications service" is no longer defined in the Communications Act or the definition in the Communications Act otherwise becomes inapplicable, the term "telecommunications service" shall mean "telecommunications service" as defined in the Communications Act immediately prior to such term no longer being defined in the Communications Act or such definition otherwise becoming inapplicable.
(Code 2001, § 40-103(1); Code 2006, § 62-1)
Sec. 28-2. - Granting authority.
(a)
No person shall use or occupy the streets to provide any cable services or operate a cable system or open video system without a franchise granted in accordance with the provisions of this chapter.
(b)
The City Council may grant one or more franchises in accordance with this chapter, provided that the City Council reserves the right to modify any provision of this chapter by amendment hereof.
(c)
The grant of any franchise shall be made by adoption of a separate ordinance by the City Council and shall be on such terms and conditions as may be specified in said separate ordinance and/or a franchise agreement between the City and the grantee.
(d)
Any franchise granted shall be nonexclusive. The City specifically reserves the right to grant, at any time, such additional franchises as it deems appropriate and/or itself engage in the provision of cable services.
(e)
A franchise may be granted for all or any defined portion of the City.
(f)
The grant of franchises by the City shall be subject to the provisions of applicable law, such as the provisions in the Cable Act, as amended, governing cable television system and open video system franchises and the renewals of cable television system franchises.
(Code 2001, § 40-103(2); Code 2006, § 62-2)
Sec. 28-3. - Franchise applications.
(a)
Applications for franchises shall be submitted in such form and be issued on such terms and conditions as the City Council may determine, subject to applicable law.
(b)
Any application for a franchise shall contain and/or require the following information with respect to the proposed franchise and such other information as the City Council shall deem necessary or appropriate:
(1)
Applicant's name, address, telephone number, and federal employer identification number or social security number; copy of applicant's corporate charter or partnership agreement as applicable; and any trade names (and registrations) used by applicant;
(2)
A detailed statement of the corporation or business entity organization of the applicant, including, but not limited to, the following, and to whatever extent required by the City:
a.
The names and the residence and business addresses of all officers and directors of the applicant;
b.
The names, residence, and business addresses of all persons and entities having any share of the ownership of the applicant and the respective ownership share of each person or entity;
c.
The names and address of any parent or subsidiary of the applicant, namely, any other business entity owning or controlling the applicant in whole or in part or owned or controlled in whole or in part by the applicant, and a statement describing the nature of any such parent or subsidiary business entity, including, but not limited to, cable systems and open video systems owned or controlled by the applicant, its parent, and subsidiary, and the areas served thereby;
d.
A detailed and complete financial statement of the applicant, certified by an independent certified public accountant, for the fiscal year immediately preceding the date of the application hereunder, or a letter or other acceptable evidence in writing from a recognized lending institution or funding source, addressed to both the applicant and the Council, setting forth the basis for a study performed by such lending institution or funding source, and a clear statement of its intent as a lending institution or funding source to provide whatever capital shall be required by the applicant to construct and operate the proposed cable system or open video system in the City, or a statement from an independent certified public accountant certifying that the applicant has available sufficient free, net, and uncommitted cash resources to construct and operate the proposed cable system or open video system in the City;
e.
A detailed financial plan (pro forma) describing, for each year of the franchise, projected number of subscribers, rates, all revenues, operating expenses, capital expenditures, depreciation schedules, income statements, and sources and uses of funds statement;
f.
A statement identifying, by place and date, any other cable television franchise awarded to the applicant, its parent or subsidiary; the status of said franchise with respect to completion thereof; the total cost of completion of such franchisee cable system and open video system; and the amount of the applicant's and its parent's or subsidiary's resources committed to the completion thereof;
g.
A detailed description of the proposed plan of operation of the applicant which shall include, but not be limited to, the following:
1.
A description of the cable services proposed to be provided;
2.
A detailed map indicating all areas proposed to be served, and a proposed time schedule for the installation of all equipment necessary to become operational throughout the entire area to be serviced;
3.
A statement or schedule setting forth all proposed classifications or rates and charges to be made against subscribers and all rates and charges as to each of said classifications, including installation charges, cable service charges, and any other service charges;
4.
A detailed, informative, and referenced statement describing the actual equipment and operational standards proposed by the applicant;
5.
A copy of the form of any agreement, undertaking, or other instrument proposed to be entered into between the applicant and any subscriber to cable services; and
6.
A detailed statement setting forth in its entirety any and all agreements and undertakings, whether formal or informal, written, oral, or implied, existing or proposed to exist between the applicant and any person, firm, or corporation which materially relate or pertain to or depend upon the application and the granting of the franchise; a copy of any agreement covering the franchise area, if existing between the applicant and any utility providing for the use of any facilities of the utility, including, but not limited to, poles, lines, or conduits; and
h.
Any other details, statements, supplementary information, or references pertinent to the subject matter of such application which shall be required or requested by the Council, or by any other provision of law.
(Code 2001, § 40-103(3); Code 2006, § 62-3)
Sec. 28-4. - Nonrefundable application fees for new franchises.
No application for a new franchise shall be considered without payment by the applicant of application fees as provided in this section. If a franchise is granted, application fees will not be deemed a credit towards any other fees or sums due by the grantee. If an application is denied, the application fee will not be refunded.
(1)
Purpose of application fees. The application fees provided by this section will serve to cover the direct and indirect costs incurred by the City in processing the application, evaluating the applicant, and granting a franchise, and shall include, but not be limited to, administrative, engineering, publication, legal, and consultant's expenses.
(2)
Application fee. The applicant will be expected to pay the reasonable costs of the City in evaluating the application. Notwithstanding any other requirement of this article, each applicant must furnish with its proposal a nonrefundable application fee in an amount as adopted by the City Council by resolution from time to time by certified check or cashier's check made payable to the City. In the event that the City's reasonable costs exceed such amount, the applicant may be required by the City to pay any additional amount to cover such costs.
(Code 2001, § 40-103(4); Code 2006, § 62-4)
Sec. 28-5. - Responsibilities of applicants.
It shall be the responsibility of each applicant for a franchise to comply with all applicable laws, ordinances, resolutions, rules, regulations and other directives of the City and any federal, State or local governmental authority having jurisdiction.
(Code 2001, § 40-103(5); Code 2006, § 62-5)
Sec. 28-6. - Public availability of applications.
To the extent determined by the City Council, applications for franchise, including any additions, modifications or amendments thereto, shall be available for public inspection at a designated City office during normal business hours.
(Code 2001, § 40-103(6); Code 2006, § 62-6)
Sec. 28-7. - Evaluation criteria.
In making any determination hereunder as to any application for a franchise, the City Council may consider such factors as it deems appropriate and in the public interest, including, without limitation, the:
(1)
Adequacy of the proposed compensation to be paid to the City, including the value of any facilities and cable services offered by the applicant to the City;
(2)
Legal, financial, technical and other appropriate qualifications of the applicant;
(3)
Ability of the applicant to maintain the property of the City in good condition throughout the term of the franchise;
(4)
Value and efficiency to the City and its residents of the cable services to be provided, including the type of cable services to be provided, as well as alternatives to those services and services that may be precluded by the grant of the franchise;
(5)
Willingness and ability of the applicant to meet construction and physical requirements and to abide by all purpose and policy conditions, limitations and requirements with respect to the franchise; and any other public interest factors or considerations deemed pertinent by the City for safeguarding the interests of the City and the public.
(Code 2001, § 40-103(7); Code 2006, § 62-7)
Sec. 28-8. - Procedure for consideration of and action on applications.
(a)
The City may make such investigations and take or authorize the taking of such other steps as the City Council deems necessary or appropriate to consider and act on applications for franchises and determine whether a franchise should be granted to an applicant, and may require the applicant to furnish additional information and data for this purpose. In considering applications, the City Council may seek advice from other City officials or bodies, from such other advisory bodies as it may establish or determine appropriate, or from the public, and may request the preparation of one or more reports to be submitted to the City Council, which may include recommendations with respect to such applications.
(b)
If the City Council, after considering such information as it determines to be appropriate, elects to further consider any application, the City Council shall set one or more public hearings for consideration of the application, fixing and setting forth a day, hour and place certain when and where any persons having any interest therein or objections thereto may file written comments and appear before the City Council and be heard, and providing notice of such public hearing in accordance with applicable law.
(c)
The City Council may authorize negotiations between City officials and applicants to determine whether the City and such applicants are able to reach agreement on the terms of the proposed franchise.
(d)
Upon completion of the steps deemed appropriate by the City Council, the City Council may grant the franchise, and may specify the conditions under which the franchise is granted. Alternatively, the City may reject any and all applications from whatever source and whenever received except that a franchising authority may not grant an exclusive franchise and may not unreasonably refuse to award an additional competitive franchise. The City also reserves the right to waive any or all requirements when it determines that the best interests of the City may be served thereby and may, if it so desires, request new or additional proposals.
(Code 2001, § 40-103(8); Code 2006, § 62-8)
Sec. 28-9. - Terms and conditions of franchise.
The terms and conditions applicable to any franchise granted pursuant to this chapter shall be set forth in the separate ordinance granting the franchise or in a separate written agreement. Such separate ordinance or written agreement, among other things, shall address the following subjects:
(1)
The term of the franchise;
(2)
The franchise area and the cable services which are the subject of the franchise;
(3)
The compensation to be paid to the City, which may include the payment of fees or the provision of facilities or services, or both;
(4)
The circumstances upon which the franchise may be terminated or cancelled;
(5)
The mechanisms, such as performance bonds, security funds or letters of credit, to be put in place to ensure the performance of the grantee's obligations under the franchise;
(6)
The city's right to inspect the facilities and records of the grantee;
(7)
Insurance and indemnification requirements applicable to the grantee;
(8)
The obligation of the grantee to maintain complete and accurate books of account and records, and the City's inspection rights with respect thereto;
(9)
Provisions to ensure quality workmanship and construction methods;
(10)
Provisions to ensure that the grantee will comply with all applicable City, State and federal laws, regulations, rules and policies, including, without limitation, those related to employment, purchasing and investigations;
(11)
Provisions to ensure adequate oversight and regulation of the grantee by the City;
(12)
Provisions to restrict the assignment or other transfer of the franchise without the prior written consent of the City;
(13)
Remedies available to the City to protect the City's interest in the event of the grantee's failure to comply with terms and conditions of the franchise;
(14)
Provisions to ensure that the grantee will obtain all necessary licenses and permits from, and comply with, all laws, regulations, rules and policies of any governmental body having jurisdiction over the grantee, including, but not limited to, the Federal Communications Commission;
(15)
Provisions to ensure that the grantee will protect the property of the City and the delivery of public services from damage or interruption of operations resulting from the construction, operation, maintenance, repair or removal of improvements related to the franchise;
(16)
Provisions designed to minimize the extent to which the public use of the streets of the City are disrupted in connection with the construction of improvements relating to the franchise; and
(17)
Such other provisions as the City determines are necessary or appropriate in furtherance of the public interest.
(Code 2001, § 40-103(9); Code 2006, § 62-9)
Secs. 28-10—28-36. - Reserved.
ARTICLE II. - STATE CABLE AND VIDEO SERVICE FRANCHISES

Sec. 28-37. - Definitions.
The following words, terms and phrases, when used in this article, shall have the meanings ascribed to them in this section, except where the context clearly indicates a different meaning:
Gross revenues means any revenue received from subscribers, including, but not limited to, revenue for basic service, tier service, additional outlets, FM service, commercial service, premium service, pay-per-view service and related per-event services, or for the distribution of any service over the system or the provision of any service-related activity in connection with the operation of the system.
(Ord. No. 08520-5, § 1(70-110), 5-20-2008)
Sec. 28-38. - Purpose.
The City considers collecting a franchise fee from a cable or video provider utilizing the public rights-of-way as compensation to the public for the use of the rights-of way and a means of promoting the public health, safety, welfare, economic development, and protection of the public works infrastructure of the City. O.C.G.A. § 36-76-1 et seq., otherwise known as the Consumer Choice for Television Act (hereinafter referred to as "the Act,"), as amended from time to time by the Georgia General Assembly, authorizes a statewide franchising option for cable service providers and video service providers providing cable and video services as defined therein. As specifically applied to the City, the Act further authorizes cable service providers and video service providers to obtain a State franchise to serve all or parts of the City. In the event any cable service provider or video service provider operating within the City elects, after January 1, 2008, to obtain a State franchise to serve all or parts of the City, it is the intention of the Mayor and City Council that such cable service providers or video service providers be subject to any franchise fees authorized by law. The City is authorized by law to collect a franchise fee at a rate up to and including five percent of each cable or video service provider's gross revenues generated within the City or the maximum amount established by federal and State law. Furthermore, the City currently collects a franchise fee of five percent of annual gross revenues generated within the City pursuant to existing franchise agreements and intends to collect that same amount on gross revenues generated pursuant to any State franchise or the maximum that may subsequently be allowed by law.
(Ord. No. 08520-5, § 1(70-111), 5-20-2008)
Sec. 28-39. - Franchise fees.
The City shall require collection of franchise fees at the rate of five percent of annual gross revenues generated by any cable or video service provider providing cable or video services within the City pursuant to a State franchise or the maximum fee that may be subsequently allowed by law. Such fees shall be paid directly to the City as provided for by O.C.G.A. § 36-76-6 or as may be subsequently allowed by law.
(Ord. No. 08520-5, § 1(70-112), 5-20-2008)
Sec. 28-40. - Regulations pertaining to use of government streets and public rights-of-way.
All regulations set forth in this Code, including Article IV of this chapter, concerning regulations pertaining to use of government streets and public rights-of-way, are hereby made applicable to any cable or video service provider providing cable and video services within the City pursuant to a State franchise.
(Ord. No. 08520-5, § 1(70-113), 5-20-2008)
Sec. 28-41. - Forward certified copy of article.
The City Clerk is herewith directed to forward a certified copy of this article to the Georgia Secretary of State and to each applicant for or holder of a State franchise with a service area located within the City.
(Ord. No. 08520-5, § 2, 5-20-2008)
Secs. 28-42—28-60. - Reserved.
ARTICLE III. - TELEPHONE AND TELEGRAPH SERVICE

Sec. 28-61. - Due compensation for telephone companies with end user retail customers within the City.
(a)
The City hereby requires due compensation of three percent of actual recurring local service revenues, as defined in O.C.G.A. § 46-5-1(b)(8) and (9).
(b)
Regarding any telephone company that does not have retail, end user customers located within the City's municipal boundaries, the payment by such company to a municipal authority in accordance with the rates set by regulations promulgated by the Department of Transportation for the use of its rights-of-way shall be considered the payment of due compensation.
(Ord. No. 10615-4, § 1, 6-15-2010)
Sec. 28-62. - Authorized designee.
The City Clerk shall, on behalf of the City, exercise day-to-day administrative duties necessary to fulfill the regulatory authority of the City under O.C.G.A. § 46-5-1 et seq., and shall perform the following duties:
(1)
Review application information submitted by a telephone company to the City and, if an application is incomplete, notify the telegraph or telephone company within 15 business days of the receipt of such application, identifying in such notice all application deficiencies.
(2)
Report the receipt of a completed application to the Council within 60 calendar days of the receipt of such completed application.
(3)
Review payments of due compensation submitted by the company to ensure compliance with the provisions of the amended law and this article.
(4)
Provide a coordination function between a telephone company and all City departments on any matter relating to the amended law and this article.
(5)
Arrange and evaluate, no more than once a year, a comprehensive review of the records of a company which is reasonably related to the calculation and payment of due compensation.
(6)
Provide to all telegraph and telephone companies located in its rights-of-way written notice of annexations and changes in municipal corporate boundaries.
(Ord. No. 10615-4, § 2, 6-15-2010)
Sec. 28-63. - Preamble.
The preamble attached to the ordinance from which this article is derived is hereby incorporated into this article as if set out fully herein.
(Ord. No. 10615-4, § 3, 6-15-2010)
Secs. 28-64—28-77. - Reserved.
ARTICLE IV. - USE OF GENERAL STREETS AND PUBLIC RIGHTS-OF-WAY

Sec. 28-78. - Definitions.
The following words, terms and phrases, when used in this article, shall have the meanings ascribed to them in this section, except where the context clearly indicates a different meaning:
Grantee means a person that has been granted a valid franchise agreement from the government, or holds a valid State franchise, or uses the public rights-of-way for cable or wire transmission.
(Ord. No. 08617-6, § 1(70-120), 6-17-2008)
Sec. 28-79. - Placement of facilities.
(a)
All grantee's facilities to be installed only at locations approved by Public Works Director. Any poles, wires, cable lines, conduits or other properties of a grantee to be constructed or installed in streets shall be so constructed or installed only at such locations and in such manner as shall be approved in writing by the City's Public Works Director in the exercise of the Director's reasonable discretion in conformance with all applicable codes.
(b)
During construction, reconstruction or maintenance of system grantee shall not obstruct public ways without prior consent of authorities. In connection with the construction, reconstruction, operation, maintenance, repair, or removal of the system, a grantee shall give due regard to the aesthetics of the franchise areas and shall not obstruct the public ways, streets, railways, passenger travel, or other traffic to, from or within the government, without prior consent of the appropriate authorities. In addition:
(1)
All transmission and distribution structures, lines, and equipment erected by a grantee within the City shall be so located as to cause minimum interference with the rights and reasonable convenience of property owners who adjoin any street or public way.
(2)
In case of any disturbance to any public way, street, easement, paved area or other property, a grantee, at its own cost and expense and in a manner and time period approved by the government, shall replace and restore such public way, street, easement, paved area or other property in as good condition as before the work involving such disturbance was done (see also Section 28-81(a)).
(c)
Permits required to be obtained prior to any physical work being performed in government's streets. A grantee or its authorized contractors must obtain permits from the Public Works Director, Building Department and/or other appropriate departments prior to any physical work being performed in the government's streets, or on government-owned property. Permits will be issued to a grantee or its contractors only on approved plans by approved contractors, which plans must be submitted on or before the request for the construction permit. All work will be done in accordance with the government's specifications and must comply with all applicable government construction codes and procedures.
(d)
Grantee to prepare detailed maps of entire system prior to issuance of permit for construction or reconstruction; maps also to be filed with affected utility companies. A grantee shall cause detailed maps of the entire cable system showing materials of construction, amplifier, and power supply locations to be filed in the office of the Public Works Director prior to the issuance of a permit for construction or reconstruction. Prior to requesting the issuance of a permit for the installation of any facility or apparatus in accordance with the provisions of this section, a grantee shall file such maps with all utility companies and public agencies whose facilities are affected by such installation.
(e)
Upon undergrounding of utility lines, grantee shall concurrently place lines underground in conduits at depth approved by Public Works Director. All facilities of a grantee in any public street or in any public or private easement, and cable service lines to subscribers off the main lines, shall be located underground at such depths and locations as shall be approved by the Public Works Director, except, with respect to such cable service lines, where grantee uses existing poles with permission from their owner, and where and so long as electric and telephone lines to the subscribers are overhead. Upon the undergrounding of the utility lines of the owner using said poles, a grantee shall concurrently (or earlier) place its facilities underground at depths and locations approved by the Public Works Director, provided that access is made available to grantee during the placement of the facilities underground. All underground wires or cable of a grantee shall be placed in conduits.
(Ord. No. 08617-6, § 1(70-121), 6-17-2008)
Sec. 28-80. - Changes required by public improvements.
(a)
Grantee may be required to move its facilities to accommodate changes in public improvements. A grantee shall from time to time protect, support, temporarily dislocate, or temporarily or permanently, as may be required, remove or relocate, without expense to the government or any other governmental entity, any facilities installed, used, or maintained under a franchise, if and when made necessary by any lawful change of grade, alignment, or width of any public street by the government or any other governmental entity, or made necessary by any other public improvement or alteration in, under, on, upon or about any public street or other public property, whether such public improvement or alteration is at the instance of the government or another governmental entity, and whether such improvement or alteration is for a governmental or proprietary function, or made necessary by traffic conditions, public safety, street vacation or any other public project or purpose of the government or any other governmental entity. The decision of the Public Works Director under this section, absent review by the Commission, shall be final and binding on a grantee.
(b)
Grantee shall obtain prior approval before altering any municipal facility; alterations to be at cost of grantee. In connection with the construction, operation, maintenance, repair, or removal of the system, a grantee shall, at its own cost and expense, protect any and all existing structures belonging to the government. A grantee shall obtain the prior approval of the government before altering any water main, sewage or drainage system, or any other municipal structure in any public way or street, because of the presence of the system in the public ways or streets. Any such alteration shall be made by a grantee, at its sole cost and expense, and in a manner reasonably prescribed by the government. A grantee shall also be liable, at its own cost and expense, to replace or repair and restore to as close to its prior condition as is reasonably possible and in a manner reasonably specified by the government, any public way, street or any municipal structure involved in the construction of the system that may become disturbed or damaged as a result of any work thereon by or on behalf of the grantee pursuant to a franchise agreement.
(c)
Grantee shall temporarily move its wires to permit moving of buildings. Grantee shall, at the request of any person holding a moving permit issued by the government, temporarily raise or lower its wires to permit the moving of buildings. The expense of such temporary removal or raising or lowering of wires shall be paid by the person requesting the same, and grantee shall have the authority to require such payment in advance. Grantee shall be given not less than 48 hours' notice to arrange for such temporary wire changes.
(Ord. No. 08617-6, § 1(70-122), 6-17-2008)
Sec. 28-81. - Failure of grantee to perform street work.
(a)
Grantee shall repair and restore damage to government facilities. In the event that a grantee during construction, installation, inspection or repair of its facilities causes damage to pavement, sidewalks, driveways, landscaping or other property, the grantee or the authorized agent shall, at its own expense and in a manner approved by the government, replace and restore such places consistent with all applicable codes and standards.
(b)
Failure by grantee to complete required work in any street can result in government causing work to be done at expense of grantee. Upon failure of the grantee to complete any work required by law, or by the provisions of a franchise, to be done in any street or other public place within ten days following due notice and to the satisfaction of the Public Works Director, the government may, at its option, cause such work to be done and a grantee shall pay to the government the cost thereof in the itemized amounts reported by the Public Works Director to the grantee within ten days after receipt of such itemized report. Or, at government's option, government may demand of grantee the estimated cost of such work as estimated by the Public Works Director, and such shall be paid by grantee to government within ten days of such demand; upon award of any contracts for such work, grantee shall pay to government within ten days of demand any additional amount necessary to provide for cost of such work. Upon completion of such work, grantee shall pay to government or government shall refund to grantee such sums so that the total received and retained by government shall equal the cost of such work. The term "cost," as used herein, shall include 15 percent of other costs for government's overhead.
(Ord. No. 08617-6, § 1(70-123), 6-17-2008)
Sec. 28-82. - Emergency work.
The government reserves the right to remove any portion of a grantee's equipment and facilities as may be required in any emergency as reasonably determined by the government without liability for interruption of cable service and the government shall not be obligated to restore cable service or to pay the costs of expenses of restoring cable service.
(Ord. No. 08617-6, § 1(70-124), 6-17-2008)
Sec. 28-83. - Tree trimming.
A grantee shall notify the government regarding the need to trim trees upon and overhanging streets of the government so as to prevent the branches of such trees from coming in contact with the wires and cables of the grantee; at the option of the government, such trimming may be done by the government at the expense of the grantee, or by the grantee under the government's supervision and direction at the expense of the grantee. When authorized, such trimming shall be limited to the area required for clear cable passage and shall not include major structural branches which materially alter the appearance and natural growth habits of the tree. If such trimming is not performed by the government, the grantee shall be responsible for any and all damages to any tree as a result of trimming, or to the land surrounding any tree, whether such tree is trimmed or removed, or for damage to property or person caused by such trimming and removal of any tree.
(Ord. No. 08617-6, § 1(70-125), 6-17-2008)
Sec. 28-84. - Removal and abandonment of property of grantee.
(a)
Grantee shall remove system from any public street following termination or expiration of franchise. In the event that the use of a part of the cable system is discontinued for any reason for a continuous period of 12 months, or in the event such cable system or property has been installed in any street or public place without complying with the requirements of the franchise, or the franchise has been terminated, canceled or has expired without renewal, a grantee shall promptly, at its own expense, and upon being given ten days' notice from the Public Works Director, remove from the streets or public places all such property and poles of such cable system other than any which the Public Works Director may permit to be abandoned in place. In the event of such removal, a grantee shall promptly restore the street or other area from which such property has been removed to a condition satisfactory to the Public Works Director.
(b)
Grantee's property may be considered abandoned 180 days after termination or expiration of franchise. Any property of a grantee remaining in place 180 days after the termination or expiration of a franchise shall be, at the option of the Council, considered permanently abandoned. The Public Works Director may extend such time not to exceed an additional 60 days.
(c)
Abandonment in place shall be done at the direction of Department of Public Works; ownership of property shall be transferred to government. Any property of a grantee permitted to be abandoned in place shall be abandoned in such a manner as the Department of Public Works shall prescribe. Upon permanent abandonment of the property of a grantee in place, the grantee shall submit to the government an instrument in writing, to be approved by the government's attorney, transferring to the government the ownership of such property. If such an instrument is not received within 30 days of the abandonment, the property shall automatically become that of the government.
(Ord. No. 08617-6, § 1(70-126), 6-17-2008)
Secs. 28-85—28-103. - Reserved.
ARTICLE V. - WIRELESS FACILITIES AND ANTENNAS
DIVISION 1. - GENERALLY

Sec. 28-104. - Adoption of definitions.
Unless defined herein, terms used in this article shall have the meanings given them in O.C.G.A. § 36-66C-2.
(Ord. No. 19917-2, exh. A(62-12.1), 9-17-2019)
Sec. 28-105. - Amended definitions.
In the event that any federal or State law containing definitions used in this article is amended, the definition in the referenced section, as amended, shall control.
(Ord. No. 19917-2, exh. A(62-12.2), 9-17-2019)
Secs. 28-106—28-134. - Reserved.
DIVISION 2. - PURPOSE AND COMPLIANCE

Sec. 28-135. - Establishment of reasonable regulations.
O.C.G.A. § 32-4-92(a)(10) authorizes the City to establish reasonable regulations for the installation, construction, maintenance, renewal, removal, and relocation of pipes, mains, conduits, cables, wires, poles, towers, traffic and other signals, and other equipment, facilities, or appliances in, on, along, over, or under the public roads of the City. Further, 47 USC 253(c) provides that the City has authority to manage its public rights-of-way. Finally, the Georgia Streamlining Wireless Facilities and Antennas Act, O.C.G.A. Title 36, Ch. 66C (the "SWFAA"), addresses the placement of small wireless facilities in the public rights-of-way of the City.
(Ord. No. 19917-2, exh. A(62-11.1), 9-17-2019)
Sec. 28-136. - Findings.
The City finds it is in the best interest of the City and its residents and businesses to establish requirements, specifications and reasonable conditions regarding placement of small wireless facilities and poles in the public rights-of-way. These requirements, specifications and conditions are adopted in order to protect the public health, safety and welfare of the residents and businesses of the City and to reasonably manage and protect the public rights-of-way and its uses in the City.
(Ord. No. 19917-2, exh. A(62-11.2), 9-17-2019)
Sec. 28-137. - Objectives.
The objective of this article is to:
(1)
Implement the SWFAA; and
(2)
Ensure use of the public rights-of-way is consistent with the design, appearance and other features of nearby land uses, protects the integrity of historic, cultural and scenic resources and does not harm residents' quality of life.
(Ord. No. 19917-2, exh. A(62-11.3), 9-17-2019)
Secs. 28-138—28-186. - Reserved.
DIVISION 3. - PERMITS

Sec. 28-187. - Permit requirements for wireless facility, poles.
A permit is required to collocate a small wireless facility in the public right-of-way or to install, modify, or replace a pole or a decorative pole in the public right-of-way. A permit is not required to perform the activities described in O.C.G.A. § 36-66C-6(e) or (f).
(Ord. No. 19917-2, exh. A(62-13.1), 9-17-2019)
Sec. 28-188. - Applications for permits.
Any person seeking to collocate a small wireless facility in the public right-of-way or to install, modify, or replace a pole or a decorative pole in the public right-of-way shall submit an application to the Permitting Department for a permit. Applications are available from the Permitting Department. Any material changes to information contained in an application shall be submitted in writing to the Permitting Department within 30 days after the events necessitating the change.
(Ord. No. 19917-2, exh. A(62-13.2), 9-17-2019)
Sec. 28-189. - Application fees.
Each application for a permit shall include the maximum application fees permitted under O.C.G.A. § 36-66C-5(a)(1) through (3). Such maximum application fees shall automatically increase on January 1 of each year beginning January 1, 2021, as provided under O.C.G.A. § 36-66C-5(b).
(Ord. No. 19917-2, exh. A(62-13.3), 9-17-2019)
Sec. 28-190. - Review of applications.
The Permitting Department shall review applications for permits according to the timelines and using the procedures identified in O.C.G.A. §§ 36-66C-7 and 36-66C-13.
(Ord. No. 19917-2, exh. A(62-13.4), 9-17-2019)
Sec. 28-191. - Exceptions of approval.
Applications for permits shall be approved except as follows:
(1)
In order to receive a permit to install a pole or replace a decorative pole, the applicant must have determined after diligent investigation that it cannot meet the service objectives of the permit by collocating on an existing pole or support structure on which:
a.
The applicant has the right to collocate subject to reasonable terms and conditions; and
b.
Such collocation would not impose technical limitations or significant additional costs. The applicant shall certify that it has made such a determination in good faith, based on the assessment of a licensed engineer, and shall provide a written summary of the basis for such determination.
(2)
The Permitting Department may deny an application for a permit upon any of the conditions identified in O.C.G.A. § 36-66C-7(j).
(3)
For applications for new poles in the public right-of-way in areas zoned for residential use, the Permitting Department may propose an alternate location in the public right-of-way within 100 feet of the location set forth in the application, and the wireless provider shall use the Permitting Department's alternate location unless the location imposes technical limits or significant additional costs. The wireless provider shall certify that it has made such a determination in good faith, based on the assessment of a licensed engineer, and it shall provide a written summary of the basis for such determination.
(Ord. No. 19917-2, exh. A(62-13.5), 9-17-2019)
Sec. 28-192. - Authority of permit holders.
A permit issued under this article shall authorize such person to occupy the public rights-of-way to:
(1)
Collocate a small wireless facility on or adjacent to a pole or a support structure that does not exceed the limitations set forth in O.C.G.A. § 36-66C-7(h)(3) or on or adjacent to a decorative pole in compliance with O.C.G.A. § 36-66C-12; and
(2)
Install, modify, or replace a pole or decorative pole for collocation of a small wireless facility that does not exceed the limitations set forth in O.C.G.A. § 36-66C-7(h)(1) and (2).
(Ord. No. 19917-2, exh. A(62-13.6), 9-17-2019)
Sec. 28-193. - Anniversary of permit issuance; pro rata payments.
Upon the issuance of a permit under this article, and on each anniversary of such issuance, every person issued a permit shall submit to the City the maximum annual payments permitted under O.C.G.A. § 36-66C-5(a)(4) and (5); provided, however, that if such person removes its small wireless facilities from the public rights-of-way pursuant to O.C.G.A. § 36-66C-5(e), then such person shall be responsible for the pro rata portion of the annual payment based on the number of days of occupation since the last annual payment. Upon making such pro rata payment and removal of the small wireless facilities, the person's annual payment obligations under this section shall cease as of the date of the actual removal. The maximum annual payments shall automatically increase on January 1 of each year beginning January 1, 2021, as provided under O.C.G.A. § 36-66C-5(b).
(Ord. No. 19917-2, exh. A(62-13.7), 9-17-2019)
Sec. 28-194. - Fees.
Any person issued a permit shall pay the fees identified in O.C.G.A. § 36-66C-5(a)(6) and (7), as applicable.
(Ord. No. 19917-2, exh. A(62-13.8), 9-17-2019)
Sec. 28-195. - Permit revoked.
The City may revoke a permit issued pursuant to this article if the wireless provider or its equipment placed in the public right-of-way under that permit subsequently is not in compliance with any provision of this article or the Georgia Streamlining Wireless Facilities and Antennas Act. Upon revocation, the City may proceed according to Section 28-196.
(Ord. No. 19917-2, exh. A(62-13.9), 9-17-2019)
Sec. 28-196. - Restoration of public rights-of-way.
If a wireless provider occupies the public rights-of-way without obtaining a permit required by this article or without complying with the SWFAA, then the City may, at the sole discretion of the City, restore the right-of-way, to the extent practicable in the reasonable judgment of the City, to its condition prior to the unpermitted collocation or installation and to charge the responsible wireless provider the reasonable, documented cost of the City in doing so, plus a penalty according to Section 1-10. The City may suspend the ability of the wireless provider to receive any new permits from the City under this article until the wireless provider has paid the amount assessed for such restoration costs and the penalty assessed, if any; provided, however, that the City may not suspend such ability of any applicant that has deposited the amount in controversy in escrow pending an adjudication of the merits of the dispute by a court of competent jurisdiction.
(Ord. No. 19917-2, exh. A(62-13.10), 9-17-2019)
Sec. 28-197. - Public availability of accepted applications.
All accepted applications for permits shall be publicly available subject to the limitations identified in O.C.G.A. § 36-66C-6(c).
(Ord. No. 19917-2, exh. A(62-13.11), 9-17-2019)
Sec. 28-198. - Consolidated applications.
An applicant may file a consolidated application related to multiple small wireless facilities, poles or decorative poles so long as such consolidated application meets the requirements of O.C.G.A. § 36-66C-13.
(Ord. No. 19917-2, exh. A(62-13.12), 9-17-2019)
Sec. 28-199. - Authorized activities.
Activities authorized under a permit shall be completed within the timelines provided in O.C.G.A. § 36-66C-7(k)(2).
(Ord. No. 19917-2, exh. A(62-13.13), 9-17-2019)
Sec. 28-200. - Authority of applicants.
Issuance of a permit authorizes the applicant to:
(1)
Undertake the collocation, installation, modification or replacement approved by the permit; and
(2)
Operate and maintain the small wireless facilities and any associated pole covered by the permit for a period of ten years.
(Ord. No. 19917-2, exh. A(62-13.14), 9-17-2019)
Sec. 28-201. - Renewal of permits.
Permits shall be renewed following the expiration of the term upon the terms and conditions identified in O.C.G.A. § 36-66C-7(k)(2)(B).
(Ord. No. 19917-2, exh. A(62-13.15), 9-17-2019)
Sec. 28-202. - Application requirements.
If an application for a permit seeks to collocate small wireless facilities on authority poles in the public rights-of-way, then the City shall, within 60-days of receipt of the completed application:
(1)
Provide a good faith estimate for any make-ready work necessary to enable the authority pole to support the proposed facility; or
(2)
Notify the wireless provider that the wireless provider will be required to perform the make-ready work. Any make-ready work performed by the City shall be completed pursuant to and in accordance with the provisions of O.C.G.A. § 36-66C-7(n).
(Ord. No. 19917-2, exh. A(62-13.16), 9-17-2019)
Secs. 28-203—28-227. - Reserved.
DIVISION 4. - REMOVAL; RELOCATION; RECONDITIONING; REPLACEMENT; ABANDONMENT

Sec. 28-228. - Removal of small wireless facilities.
A person may remove its small wireless facilities from the public rights of according to the procedures of O.C.G.A. § 36-66C-5(e).
(Ord. No. 19917-2, exh. A(62-14.1), 9-17-2019)
Sec. 28-229. - Restoring right-of-way after removal.
(a)
In the event of a removal, the right-of-way shall be, to the extent practicable in the reasonable judgment of the City, restored to its condition prior to the removal. If a person fails to return the right-of-way, to the extent practicable in the reasonable judgment of the City, to its condition prior to the removal within 90 days of the removal, the City may, at the sole discretion of the City, restore the right-of-way to such condition and charge the person the City's reasonable, documented cost of removal and restoration, plus a penalty not to exceed the amount authorized under O.C.G.A. § 36-66C-5.
(b)
The City may suspend the ability of the person to receive any new permits under this article until the person has paid the amount assessed for such restoration costs and the penalty assessed, if any; provided, however, that the City will not suspend such ability of any person that has deposited the amount in controversy in escrow pending an adjudication of the merits of the dispute by a court of competent jurisdiction.
(Ord. No. 19917-2, exh. A(62-14.2), 9-17-2019)
Sec. 28-230. - Pole relocation.
(a)
If, in the reasonable exercise of police powers, the City determines:
(1)
A pole or support structure unreasonably interferes with the widening, repair, reconstruction, or relocation of a public road or highway; or
(2)
Relocation of poles, support structures, or small wireless facilities is required as a result of a public project;
the wireless provider shall relocate such poles, support structures, or small wireless facilities pursuant to and in accordance with the provisions of O.C.G.A. § 36-66C-7(l).
(b)
If the wireless provider fails to relocate a pole, support structure or small wireless facility or fails to provide a written good faith estimate of the time needed to relocate the pole, support structure or small wireless within the time period prescribed in O.C.G.A. § 36-66C-7(l), the City make take the actions authorized by O.C.G.A. § 36-66C-7(o), in addition to any other powers under applicable law.
(Ord. No. 19917-2, exh. A(62-14.3), 9-17-2019)
Sec. 28-231. - Reconditioning and replacement of poles.
The City shall recondition and replace authority poles consistent with the provisions of O.C.G.A. § 36-66C-7(m). Wireless providers shall accommodate and cooperate with reconditioning and replacement consistent with the provisions of O.C.G.A. § 36-66C-7(m).
(Ord. No. 19917-2, exh. A(62-14.4), 9-17-2019)
Sec. 28-232. - Wireless facility abandonment.
A wireless provider must notify the City of its decision to abandon any small wireless facility, support structure or pole pursuant to and in accordance with the provisions of O.C.G.A. § 36-66C-7(p)(1). The wireless provider shall perform all acts and duties identified in O.C.G.A. § 36-66C-7(p) regarding abandonment. The City may take all actions and exercise all powers authorized under O.C.G.A. § 36-66C-7(p) upon abandonment, in addition to any other powers under applicable law.
(Ord. No. 19917-2, exh. A(62-14.5), 9-17-2019)
Secs. 28-233—28-257. - Reserved.
DIVISION 5. - STANDARDS

Sec. 28-258. - Pole and new small wireless facility requirements.
(a)
Small wireless facilities and new, modified, or replacement poles to be used for collocation of small wireless facilities may be placed in the public right-of-way as a permitted use:
(1)
Upon a receipt of a permit under Division 3 of this article;
(2)
Subject to applicable codes; and
(3)
So long as such small wireless facilities and new, modified, or replacement poles to be used for collocation of small wireless facilities comply with the appropriate provisions of O.C.G.A. § 36-66C-7(h).
(b)
New, modified, or replacement poles installed in the right-of-way in a historic district and in an area zoned primarily for residential use shall not exceed 50 feet above ground level.
(c)
Each new, modified, or replacement pole installed in the right-of-way that is not in a historic district or in an area zoned primarily for residential use shall not exceed the greater of:
(1)
50 feet above ground level; or
(2)
Ten feet greater in height above ground level than the tallest existing pole in the same public right-of-way in place as of January 1, 2019, and located within 500 feet of the new proposed pole.
(d)
New small wireless facilities in the public right-of-way and collocated on an existing pole or support structure shall not exceed more than ten feet above the existing pole or support structure.
(e)
New small wireless facilities in the public right-of-way collocated on a new or replacement pole under Subsection (a) or (b) of this section may not extend above the top of such poles.
(Ord. No. 19917-2, exh. A(62-15.1), 9-17-2019)
Sec. 28-259. - Decorative poles.
A decorative pole should only be located where an existing pole can be removed and replaced, or at a new location where the City has identified that a streetlight is necessary.
(Ord. No. 19917-2, exh. A(62-15.2), 9-17-2019)
Sec. 28-260. - Concealing wireless facilities.
Unless it is determined that another design is less intrusive, or placement is required under applicable law, small wireless facilities shall be concealed as follows:
(1)
Antennas located at the top of poles and support structures shall be incorporated into the pole or support structure, or placed within shrouds of a size such that the antenna appears to be part of the pole or support structure.
(2)
Antennas placed elsewhere on a pole or support structure shall be integrated into the pole or support structure or be designed and placed to minimize visual impacts.
(3)
Radio units or equipment cabinets holding radio units and mounted on a pole shall be placed as high as possible, located to avoid interfering with, or creating any hazard to, any other use of the public rights-of-way, and located on one side of the pole. Unless the radio units or equipment cabinets can be concealed by appropriate traffic signage, radio units or equipment cabinets mounted below the communications space on poles shall be designed so that the largest dimension is vertical, and the width is such that the radio units or equipment cabinets are minimally visible from the opposite side of the pole on which they are placed.
(4)
Wiring and cabling shall be neat and concealed within or flush to the pole or support structure, ensuring concealment of these components to the greatest extent possible.
(Ord. No. 19917-2, exh. A(62-15.3), 9-17-2019)
Sec. 28-261. - Collocating wireless facilities in historic districts.
Notwithstanding any provision of this article to the contrary, an applicant may collocate a small wireless facility within a historic district, and may place or replace a pole within a historic district, only upon satisfaction of the following:
(1)
Issuance of a permit under Division 3 of this article; and
(2)
Compliance with applicable codes.
(Ord. No. 19917-2, exh. A(62-15.4), 9-17-2019)
Sec. 28-262. - Collocating wireless facilities on a decorative pole.
Notwithstanding any provision of this article to the contrary, an applicant may collocate a small wireless facility on a decorative pole, or may replace a decorative pole with a new decorative pole, in the event the existing decorative pole will not structurally support the attachment, only upon satisfaction of the following:
(1)
Issuance of a permit under Division 3 of this article; and
(2)
Compliance with applicable codes.
(Ord. No. 19917-2, exh. A(62-15.5), 9-17-2019)
