ARTICLE III. - TAXATION
DIVISION 1. - GENERALLY

Sec. 10-287. - Gross direct premiums tax.
(a)
Rate of levy on life, accident, and sickness insurers. There is hereby set and levied upon each company authorized to write life, accident, and sickness insurance and which is doing business within the municipal corporate limits an annual tax equal to one percent of the annual gross direct premiums received during the preceding calendar year from policies insuring persons residing within the corporate limits of the City, except that such tax shall not apply to the gross direct premiums of an insurance company which qualifies, pursuant to O.C.G.A. § 33-8-5, for the reduction to one-half of one percent of the State tax imposed by O.C.G.A. § 33-8-4. The tax imposed by this subsection shall not apply to annuity considerations. The term "gross direct premiums," as used in this section, shall have the same meaning as that used in O.C.G.A. § 33-8-4. The tax levied by this subsection is in addition to any license fee imposed by this Code.
(b)
Rate of levy on all other insurers. There is hereby set and levied upon each insurance company not taxed under the provisions of Subsection (a) of this section and which is doing business within the municipal corporate limits an annual tax equal to 2½ percent of the annual gross direct premiums received during the preceding calendar year from policies insuring persons residing within the municipal corporate limits. The tax levied by this subsection is in addition to any license fee imposed by this Code.
(Code 2001, § 4-108; Code 2006, § 34-1)
Sec. 10-288. - Public utility franchise tax.
(a)
Rate of levy. There is hereby set and levied on each electric light and power company, gas company, telephone and telegraph company, water company, and any other public utility making use of the streets, alleys, or other public ways or places in the City for the purposes of rendering utility services a franchise tax of the annual gross revenue received from residential, commercial, and industrial sales:
Utility Franchise Tax Schedule
EXPAND
Georgia Power Company four percent
Georgia Natural Gas three percent
Southern Bell three percent
Electric Membership Corporation four percent
Comcast three percent
  (b)
Due date and required report. The public utility franchise tax shall be paid on or before March 31 following the calendar year in which the utility was provided and the sale was made, and payment by a report showing the volume of gross sales by service classification (residential, commercial, industrial) for said preceding month.
(c)
Penalty. There shall be a ten percent penalty if tax is not paid by the due date. Such delinquent taxes shall bear an interest rate of seven percent per annum.
(Code 2001, § 4-111; Code 2006, § 34-2)
Secs. 10-289—10-310. - Reserved.
DIVISION 2. - OCCUPATIONAL LICENSE, TAX, AND REGULATORY FEES

Sec. 10-311. - Occupation tax required for business dealings in the City.
For the year 1995 and succeeding years thereafter, each person engaged in any business, trade, profession, or occupation in the City, whether with a location in the City or in the case of an out-of-state business with no location in the State exerting substantial efforts within the State pursuant to O.C.G.A. § 48-13-7, shall pay an occupation tax for said business, trade, profession, or occupation; which tax and any applicable registration shall be displayed in a conspicuous place in the place of business, if the taxpayer has a permanent business location in the City. If the taxpayer has no permanent business location in the City, such business tax registration shall be shown to the City Clerk or the Clerk's designee or to any police officer of the City, upon request.
(Code 2001, § 4-115(1); Code 2006, § 34-27)
Sec. 10-312. - Definitions.
The following words, terms and phrases, when used in this division, shall have the meanings ascribed to them in this section, except where the context clearly indicates a different meaning:
Administrative fee means a component of an occupation tax which approximates the reasonable cost of handling and processing the occupation tax.
Dominant line means the type of business, within a multiple-line business, that the greatest amount of income is derived from.
Employee means an individual whose work is performed under the direction and supervision of the employer and whose employer withholds PICA, Federal Income Tax, or State Income Tax or whose employer issues to such individual for purposes of documenting compensation a form IRS W-2 but not a form IRM 1099. The term "employee" includes an individual who performs work under the direction and supervision of one business or practitioner in accordance with the terms of a contract or agreement with another business which recruits such individual as an employee of the business or practitioner which issues to such individual for purposes of documenting compensation a form IRS W-2. A full-time employee means an employee working 40 hours or more weekly. For the purposes of counting part-time employees, the average weekly hours of employees who work less than 40 hours weekly shall be added and the total divided by 40 to produce full-time position equivalents. The number of employees shall be deemed to be the monthly average number of full-time employees or full-time equivalents employed during the previous calendar year, or in the case of a newly established business, the projected average number of full-time employees or full-time equivalents employed during the year.
Game room means any business in which amusement machines, coin-operated or otherwise, are available for the entertainment of the public, and where the proceeds from the operation of said amusement machines constitutes 50 percent or more of the gross revenue of said business. All persons operating pool and/or billiard rooms, bowling alleys and/or game rooms shall apply for and hold a permit for such operation subject to this division.
Location oroffice means and includes any structure or vehicle where a business, profession, or occupation is conducted but shall not include a temporary or construction worksite which serves a single customer or project or a vehicle used for sales or delivery by a business or practitioner of a profession or occupation which has a location or office. The renter's or lessee's location which is the site of personal property which is rented or leased from another does not constitute a location or office for the personal property's owner, lessor, or the agent of the owner or lessor. The site of real property which is rented or leased to another does not constitute a location or office for the real property's owner, lessor, or the agent of the owner or lessor unless the real property's owner, lessor, or the agent of the owner or lessor, in addition to showing the property to prospective lessees or tenants and performing maintenance or repair of the property, otherwise conducts the business of renting or leasing the real property at such site or otherwise conducts any other business, profession, or occupation at such site.
Occupation tax means a tax levied on persons, partnerships, corporations, or other entities for engaging in an occupation, profession, or business for revenue-raising purposes.
Person shall be held to include sole proprietors, corporations, partnerships, nonprofits, or any other form of business organization, but specifically excludes charitable nonprofit organizations which utilize 50 percent of their proceeds for charitable purposes.
Practitioner of profession or occupation means one who, by State law, requires State licensure regulating such profession or occupation. Practitioners of professions and occupations shall not include a practitioner who is an employee of a business, if the business pays an occupation tax.
Regulatory fees means payments, whether designated as license fees, permit fees, or by another name, which are required by local government as an exercise of its police power and as a part of or an aid to regulation of an occupation, profession, or business. The amount of a regulatory fee shall approximate the reasonable cost of the actual regulatory activity performed by the City. A regulatory fee may not include an administrative fee or registration fee. Development impact fees as defined by O.C.G.A. § 36-71-2(8) or other costs or conditions of zoning or land development are not regulatory fees.
(Code 2001, § 4-115(2); Code 2006, § 34-28)
Sec. 10-313. - Regulatory fee structure; occupation tax structure.
(a)
A regulatory fee will be imposed as provided under O.C.G.A. § 48-13-9 on those applicable businesses.
(b)
The regulatory fee schedule for persons in occupations and professions will be in amounts as adopted by the City Council from time to time.
(Code 2001, § 4-115(3); Code 2006, § 34-29)
Sec. 10-314. - Occupation tax levied; restrictions.
(a)
An occupation tax shall be levied upon those businesses and practitioners of professions and occupations with one or more locations or offices in the corporate limits of the City and upon the applicable out-of-state businesses with no location or office in the State pursuant to O.C.G.A. § 48-13-7 based upon the number of employees of the business or practitioner.
(b)
The tax rate determined by number of employees for each business, trade, profession, or occupation will be based on the most recent fee schedule as adopted by the City Council from time to time.
(c)
There shall be a maximum tax liability of $250.00 per business.
(Code 2001, § 4-115(4); Code 2006, § 34-30)
Sec. 10-315. - Paying occupation tax of business with no location in the State.
Registration and assessment of an occupation tax is hereby imposed on those businesses and practitioners of professions with no location or office in the State if the business's largest dollar volume of business in the State is in the City and the business or practitioner:
(1)
Has one or more employees or agents who exert substantial efforts within the jurisdiction of the City for the purpose of soliciting business or serving customers or clients; or
(2)
Owns personal or real property which generates income and which is located within the jurisdiction of the City.
(Code 2001, § 4-115(5); Code 2006, § 34-31)
Sec. 10-316. - Each line of business to be identified on business registration.
The business registration of each business operated in the City shall identify the dominant lines of business that the business conducts. No business shall conduct any line of business without first having that line of business registered with the City Clerk's office and that line of business being noted by the City Clerk upon the business registration form which is to be displayed by the business owner.
(Code 2001, § 4-115(6); Code 2006, § 34-32)
Sec. 10-317. - Number of businesses considered to be operating in the City.
Where a person conducts business at more than one fixed location, each location or place shall be considered a separate business for the purpose of occupation tax.
(Code 2001, § 4-115(7); Code 2006, § 34-33)
Sec. 10-318. - Practitioners exclusively practicing for a government.
Any practitioner whose office is maintained by and who is employed in practice exclusively by the United States, the State, a municipality or County of the State, instrumentalities of the United States, the State, or a municipality or county of the State shall not be required to obtain a license or pay an occupation tax for that practice.
(Code 2001, § 4-115(9); Code 2006, § 34-35)
Sec. 10-319. - Purpose and scope of tax.
The occupation tax levied herein is for revenue purposes only and is not for regulatory purposes, nor is the payment of the tax made a condition precedent to the practice of any such profession, trade, or calling. The occupation tax only applies to those businesses and occupations which are covered by the provisions of O.C.G.A. §§ 48-13-5 to 48-13-26. All other applicable businesses and occupations are taxed by the local government pursuant to the pertinent general and/or local law and ordinance.
(Code 2001, § 4-115(10); Code 2006, § 34-36)
Sec. 10-320. - When tax due and payable; effect of transacting business when tax delinquent.
(a)
Each such occupation tax shall be for the calendar year unless otherwise specifically provided. Said registration and occupation tax shall be payable January 1 of each year and shall, if not paid by March 31 of each year, be subject to penalties for delinquency as prescribed in this division. On any new profession, trade, or calling begun in the City in 1995 or succeeding years thereafter, the registration and tax shall be delinquent if not obtained immediately upon beginning business and a ten percent penalty imposed. The tax paid by a new business shall be prorated based on the number of quarters remaining in the calendar year. A partial quarter shall be taxed as a full quarter. The tax registration herein provided for shall be issued by the City Clerk's office, and if any person, firm, or corporation whose duty it is to obtain a registration shall, after said registration or occupation tax becomes delinquent, transact or offer to transact, in the City, any of the kinds of profession, trade, or calling subject to this division without having first obtained said registration, such offender shall, upon conviction by the Municipal Court judge, be punished according to Section 1-10.
(b)
In addition to the above remedies, the City may proceed to collect in the same manner as provided by law for tax executions.
(Code 2001, § 4-115(11); Code 2006, § 34-37)
Sec. 10-321. - Exemption for certain organizations.
No business registration or occupation tax shall be levied on any State or local authority or any nonprofit organization.
(Code 2001, § 4-115(12); Code 2006, § 34-38)
Sec. 10-322. - Evidence of State registration required if applicable; State registration to be displayed.
(a)
Each person who is licensed by the Secretary of State pursuant to O.C.G.A. Title 43 shall provide evidence of proper and current State license before the City registration may be issued.
(b)
Each person who is licensed by the State shall post the State license in a conspicuous place in the licensee's place of business and shall keep the license there at all times while the license remains valid.
(Code 2001, § 4-115(13); Code 2006, § 34-39)
Sec. 10-323. - Evidence of qualification required if applicable.
Any business required to obtain health permits, bonds, certificate of qualification, sales tax certificates, certificates of competency, or any other regulatory matter shall first, before the issuance of a City business registration, show evidence that such requirements have been met.
(Code 2001, § 4-115(14); Code 2006, § 34-40)
Sec. 10-324. - Liability of officers and agents; registration required; failure to obtain.
All persons subject to the occupation tax levy pursuant to this division shall be required to obtain the necessary registration for said business as described in this division, and in default thereof the officer or agent soliciting for or representing such persons shall be subject to the same penalty as other persons who fail to obtain a registration. Every person commencing business in the City after January 1 of each year shall likewise obtain the registration herein provided for before commencing the same; and any person transacting or offering to transact, in the City, any of the kinds of business, trade, profession, or occupation without first having so obtained said registration, shall be subject to penalties provided thereof.
(Code 2001, § 4-115(15); Code 2006, § 34-41)
Sec. 10-325. - When registration and tax due and payable; effect of transacting business when tax delinquent.
(a)
Each such registration shall be for the calendar year in which the registration was obtained unless otherwise specifically provided. There is hereby imposed a penalty upon each business which fails to apply for and obtain an appropriate business registration and pay all tax and fees as provided herein before April 15 of each year and by April 15 each year hereafter. Every person commencing business in the City after January 1 of each year shall obtain the registration required before commencing such business. Any person transacting or offering to transact in the City any business, trade, profession, or occupation without first having obtained said registration shall be subject to the penalties provided in Section 1-10. Said penalties shall be in addition to all other penalties, civil and criminal, herein provided; may be collected by the remedies herein provided for collection of the occupation tax; and shall have the same lien and priority as the occupation tax to which the penalty is applied.
(b)
The registration herein provided for shall be issued by the City Clerk's office, and if any person, firm, or corporation whose duty it is to obtain a registration shall, after said occupation tax becomes delinquent, transact or offer to transact, in the City, any of the kinds of business, trade, profession, or occupation without having first obtained said registration, such offender shall be subject to the penalties provided thereof.
(Code 2001, § 4-115(16); Code 2006, § 34-42)
Sec. 10-326. - Subpoena and arrest powers.
The Police Chief and the Chief's duly designated officers and inspectors or their successors shall be classified as deputy marshal business inspectors with full subpoena and arrest powers in conjunction with any violation pertaining to the Business Tax Ordinance for 1995 and succeeding years.
(Code 2001, § 4-115(18); Code 2006, § 34-43)
Sec. 10-327. - Businesses not covered by this division.
The following businesses are not covered by the provisions of this division but may be assessed an occupation tax or other type of tax pursuant to the provisions of other general laws of the State or by local law:
(1)
Those businesses regulated by the State Public Service Commission.
(2)
Those electrical service businesses organized under O.C.G.A. Title 46, Ch. 3 (O.C.G.A. § 46-3-1 et seq.).
(3)
Any farm operation for the production from or on the land of agricultural products, but not including agribusiness.
(4)
Cooperative marketing associations governed by O.C.G.A. § 2-10-105.
(5)
Insurance companies governed by O.C.G.A. § 33-8-8 et seq.
(6)
Those businesses governed by O.C.G.A. § 48-5-355.
(7)
Agricultural products and livestock raised in the State governed by O.C.G.A. § 48-5-356.
(8)
Depository financial institutions governed by O.C.G.A. § 48-6-93.
(9)
Facilities operated by a charitable trust governed by O.C.G.A. § 48-13-55.
(Code 2001, § 4-115(19); Code 2006, § 34-44)
Sec. 10-328. - Restrictions upon persons exempt from City license; registration, compliance with ordinances, laws.
It shall be the duty of any person authorized under the laws of the State to engage in business in the City without paying license for the privilege, before engaging in business in the City, to register with the City Clerk in a book to be provided for said purpose, and it shall be unlawful for any person to engage in business in the City without registering with the Clerk as aforesaid, provided that no person shall be allowed to register by the said Clerk who is guilty of violating any of the ordinances of the City, or under charge thereof, or who is guilty of violating any law of the State or the United State of America, or under charge thereof; and provided further, that if any person after registering as aforesaid shall then be convicted of violating any of the ordinances of the City or any law of the State or of the United States, then said person shall no longer be authorized to engage in business in the City, and it shall be unlawful for such person to engage in business in the City thereafter; and provided further, that it shall be unlawful for any person after registering as aforesaid, who is engaged in any business in the City and who, thereafter, is charged with violating any ordinance of the City or law of the State or of the United States to continue to engage in business in the City pending the trial of said charges and until acquitted of the charge then pending.
(Code 2001, § 4-115(20); Code 2006, § 34-45)
Sec. 10-329. - Disabled persons' statutory certificates of exemption.
Veterans of the Armed Services and blind persons holding a certificate of exemption shall, before doing business thereunder in the City, exhibit such certificate and register annually with the City Clerk and receive a no-fee license from the City. To be exempt from paying a license fee under this section, a veteran or blind person must qualify under and comply with O.C.G.A. §§ 43-12-1—43-12-8.
(Code 2001, § 4-115(21); Code 2006, § 34-46)
Sec. 10-330. - Occupation tax inapplicable where prohibited by law or provided for pursuant to other existing law.
An occupation tax shall not apply to a business where such levy is prohibited or exempted by the laws of the State or of the United States. This division shall not be construed to limit the City's ability to levy an occupation tax, registration fee, or regulatory fee for any business or practitioner of professions or occupations as authorized by other State laws or local ordinances and not covered by O.C.G.A. §§ 48-13-5 to 48-13-26.
(Code 2001, § 4-115(22); Code 2006, § 34-47)
Sec. 10-331. - When occupation tax due and payable.
The amount of occupation tax shall be payable to the City, at the City Clerk's office on January 1 each year and delinquent if not paid on or before April 15 each year.
(Code 2001, § 4-115(23); Code 2006, § 34-48)
Sec. 10-332. - Payment of occupation tax by newly established businesses.
In the case of a business subject to occupation tax for a calendar year, which was not conducted for any period of time in the corporate limits of the City in the preceding year, the owner, proprietor, manager, or executive officer of the business liable for occupation tax shall estimate the number of employees from the commencing date to the end of the calendar year and such tax shall be paid. Said tax due the City shall be prorated based on a semi-annual basis for any portion of the year yet remaining.
(Code 2001, § 4-115(24); Code 2006, § 34-49)
Sec. 10-333. - More than one place or line of business.
Where a business is operated at more than one place or where the business includes more than one line, said business shall be required to obtain the necessary registration for each location and line and pay an occupation tax in accordance with the prevailing taxing method and tax rate for each location and line.
(Code 2001, § 4-115(25); Code 2006, § 34-50)
Sec. 10-334. - Transfers of occupational tax certificate.
No tax certificate may be transferred from one person to another. Additions to or deletions from the ownership of a business, which do not affect the liability of the principal ownership of a business for which the certificate is issued, may be made without canceling the old occupational tax certificate and applying for a new certificate.
(Code 2001, § 4-115(27); Code 2006, § 34-51)
Sec. 10-335. - Inspections of books and records.
In any case, the City, through its officers, agents, employees, or representatives, may inspect the books of the business for which the returns are made to determine the accuracy of the return as herein provided. The City shall have the right to inspect the books or records for the business of which the return was made in the City, and upon demand of the City such books or records shall be submitted for inspection by a representative of the City within 30 days. Failure of submission of such books or records within 30 days shall be grounds for revocation of the tax registration currently existing to do business in the City. Adequate records shall be kept in the City for examination by the City at its officer's discretion.
(Code 2001, § 4-115(28); Code 2006, § 34-52)
Sec. 10-336. - Effect of failure to comply with provisions; continuing in business after tax registration revocation.
Any persons, their managers, agents, or employees, who do business in the City after the registration for said business has been revoked as set forth in Section 10-335, hereby required to make occupation tax returns, and who fail to make said returns within the time and in the manner herein provided, who refuse to amend such returns so as to set forth the truth, or who shall make false returns; and any person, their managers, agents, or employees who refuse to permit an inspection of books in their charge when the officers, agents, employees, or representatives of the City request such inspection, during business hours, for the purpose of determining the accuracy of the returns herein provided for, shall be subject to penalties provided herein. In the case of those practitioners where the local government cannot suspend the right of the practitioner to conduct business, the imposition of civil penalties shall be permitted and pursued by the local government as in the case of delinquent occupation tax. These civil penalties shall consist of a fine of ten percent of the tax or fee due, but not to exceed $500.00.
(Code 2001, § 4-115(29); Code 2006, § 34-53)
Sec. 10-337. - Revocation of license.
The Mayor and Council shall have the right to revoke any license issued under this Code whenever the business conducted is in violation of any law of the State or the City, or is being conducted in a manner detrimental to the moral and general welfare of the citizens of the City; said license shall stand revoked until the next regular meeting of the Mayor and Council, at which such action in the premises either shall be sustained by action of the Council and the said license shall be permanently revoked, or it shall be restored.
(Code 2001, § 4-115(30); Code 2006, § 34-54)
Sec. 10-338. - Lien taken for delinquent occupation tax.
In addition to the other remedies herein provided for the collection of the occupation tax herein levied, the City Clerk, upon any tax or installment of said tax becoming delinquent and remaining unpaid, shall issue execution for the correct amount of said tax against the persons, partnership, or corporation liable for said tax, which said execution shall bear interest at the rate of 12 percent per annum from the date when such tax or installment becomes delinquent, and lien shall cover the property in the City of the person, partnership, or corporation liable for said tax, all as provided by the ordinances and the Charter of the City and the laws of the State. The lien of said occupation tax shall become fixed on and date from the time when such tax or any installment thereof becomes delinquent. The execution shall be levied by the Police Chief or other appropriate officer of the City upon the property of the defendant located in said jurisdiction, and sufficient property shall be advertised and sold to pay the amount of said execution, with interest and costs. All other proceedings in relation thereto shall be had as is provided by ordinances and Charter of the City and the laws of the State, and the defendant in said execution shall have rights of defense, by affidavit of illegality and otherwise, which are provided by the applicable laws in regard to tax executions. When a null bona entry has been entered by proper authority upon an execution issued by the City Clerk's office against any person defaulting on the occupation tax, the person against who the entry was made shall not be allowed or entitled to have or collect any fees or charges whatsoever for services rendered after the entry of the null bona. If, at any time after the entry of null bona has been made, the person against whom the execution issues pays the tax in full, together with all interest and costs accrued on the tax, the person may collect any fees and charges due to said person as though said person had never defaulted in the payment of the taxes.
(Code 2001, § 4-115(31); Code 2006, § 34-55)
Sec. 10-339. - Provisions for nonpayment.
A person engaged in any business, trade, profession, or occupation in the City, whether with a location in the City or in the case of an out-of-state business with no location in the State exerting substantial efforts within the State pursuant to O.C.G.A. § 48-13-7, will not be allowed to pay an occupational tax for a new calendar year until all outstanding or delinquent balances of ad valorem taxes, regulatory fees, or any other form of taxes are paid. The nonpayment of this occupational tax will prohibit a business to continue its operation until all such outstanding balances are paid.
(Code 2001, § 4-115(34); Code 2006, § 34-56)
Sec. 10-340. - Enforcement of provisions.
It is hereby made the duty of the City Clerk and/or the Chief of Police to see that the provisions of this division relating to occupation taxes are observed and to summon all violators of the same to appear before the court. It is hereby made the further duty of the City Clerk's office, Chief of Police, members of the Police Department, and their assistants to inspect all registrations issued by the City as often as in their judgment it may seem necessary to determine whether the registration held is the proper one for the business sought to be transacted thereunder.
(Code 2001, § 4-115(35); Code 2006, § 34-57)
Secs. 10-341—10-368. - Reserved.
DIVISION 3. - COLLECTION OF DELINQUENT TAXES

Sec. 10-369. - Date due.
All property subject to property tax levy by the City shall be due and payable on or before December 20 of each year.
(Ord. No. 110621-5, exh. A(34-151), 6-21-2011)
Sec. 10-370. - Failure to pay, issuance of tax fi. fa.
In the event the property tax due the City is not paid on or before December 20 of each year, then a tax fi. fa. shall be issued on said property.
(Ord. No. 110621-5, exh. A(34-152), 6-21-2011)
Sec. 10-371. - Form of tax fi. fa.
The form of the tax fi. fa. to be issued shall be created by City Council from time to time.
Sec. 10-372. - City Clerk authorized to issue fi. fa.
The City Clerk is authorized and directed to issue said fi. fa. on December 21 of each year for the City property taxes that have not been paid.
(Ord. No. 110621-5, exh. A(34-154), 6-21-2011)
Sec. 10-373. - Certain persons authorized to execute fi. fa.
The Chief of Police, or any of the Chief's authorized officers, is authorized and directed to execute said fi. fa. under the same manner and procedure as provided by the State laws governing executions for such process from the Superior Court.
(Ord. No. 110621-5, exh. A(34-155), 6-21-2011)
Sec. 10-374. - Issuance of fi. fa. to Clerk of Superior Court.
The City Clerk shall issue to the Clerk of the County Superior Court said fi. fa. with a notice to be created by City Council from time to time.
(Ord. No. 110621-5, exh. A(34-156), 6-21-2011)
Sec. 10-375. - Issuance of fi. fa. for outstanding bills; recordation.
The City Clerk is directed to immediately issue fi. fa. for all outstanding property tax bills that are due to the City and forward the same to the attorney for the City for recording in the office of the Clerk of the County Superior Court.
(Ord. No. 110621-5, exh. A(34-157), 6-21-2011)
Sec. 10-376. - Levy on property; collection of delinquent taxes.
Once the fi. fa. has been issued, the Chief of Police of the City is directed to make the necessary levy on the property for the unpaid taxes and notify the City Attorney. Said Attorney is then authorized and directed to commence collection of all delinquent taxes as provided by law. Said form language is to be created by City Council from time to time.
(Ord. No. 110621-5, exh. A(34-158), 6-21-2011)
Secs. 10-377—10-395. - Reserved.
DIVISION 4. - HOTEL AND MOTEL TAX

Sec. 10-396. - Definitions.
The following words, terms and phrases, when used in this division, shall have the meanings ascribed to them in this section, except where the context clearly indicates a different meaning:
Due date means from the 20th day after the close of the monthly period for which the hereunder tax is to be computed.
Guest room means a room occupied, or intended, arranged or designed for occupancy, by one or more occupants for the purpose of living quarters or residential use.
Hotel means any structure or any portion of a structure, including any lodginghouse, roominghouse, dormitory, turkish bath, bachelor hotel, studio hotel, motel, motor hotel, auto court, inn, public club or private club, containing guest rooms and which is occupied, or is intended or designed for occupancy, by guests, whether rent is paid in money, goods, labor or otherwise. The term "hotel" does not include any jail, hospital, nursing home, retirement home, asylum, sanitarium, orphanage, prison, detention or other buildings in which human beings are housed and detained under legal restraint.
Monthly period means the calendar months of any year.
Occupancy means the use or possession, or the right to the use or possession, of the furnishings or to the services and accommodations accompanying the use and possession of the room.
Occupant means any person who, for a consideration, uses, possesses, or has the right to use or possess any room in a hotel under any lease, concession, permit, right of access, license to use or other agreement, or otherwise.
Operator means any person operating a hotel in the City, including, but not limited to, the owner or proprietor of the premises, lessee, sublessee, lender in possession, licensee or any other person otherwise operating the hotel.
Permanent resident means any occupant as of a given date who has or shall have occupied or has or shall have the right of occupancy of any guest room in a hotel for at least ten consecutive days next preceding the date.
Person means an individual, firm, partnership, joint association, social club, fraternal organization, joint stock company, corporation, nonprofit corporation or cooperative nonprofit membership, estate, trust, business trust, receiver, trustee, syndicate or any other group or combination acting as a unit, the plural as well as the singular number, except the United States of America, the State, and any political subdivision of either thereof upon which the City is without power to impose the tax provided in this division.
Rent means the consideration received for occupancy valued in money, whether received in money or otherwise, including all receipts, cash, credits and property or services of any kind or nature, and also the amount for which credit is allowed by the operator to the occupancy, without any deduction therefrom whatsoever.
Return means any return filed or required to be filed as provided by this division.
Tax means the tax imposed by this division.
(Ord. No. 110419-3, exh. A(34-201), 4-19-2011)
Sec. 10-397. - Findings; distribution.
(a)
The City hereby finds, determines and declares that:
(1)
The encouragement, development, growth and expansion of tourism and conventions within the City are important to the economy of the City and to the general welfare of its citizens;
(2)
The City should be a tourism and convention center of the State and should have the financial ability to attract and promote tourism and conventions, and to provide the necessary public facilities to compete in the domestic and international travel and convention markets; and
(3)
The City believes the tourism and convention industry should pay for the delivery of the services and facilities requested by them to promote and attract visitors and convention delegates.
(b)
In accordance with the findings enumerated in Subsection (a) of this section, it is hereby declared that, in each fiscal year, the amount of tax collected under this division shall be used in accordance with O.C.G.A. § 48-13-51.
(Ord. No. 110419-3, exh. A(34-202), 4-19-2011)
Sec. 10-398. - Imposition and rate of tax.
There is hereby levied and there shall be paid a tax of seven percent of the rent for every occupancy of a guest room in a hotel in the City. The tax imposed by this section shall be paid upon any occupancy on and after June 1, 2011; although, the occupancy is had pursuant to a contract, lease or other arrangement made prior to that date.
(Ord. No. 110419-3, exh. A(34-203), 4-19-2011)
Sec. 10-399. - Collection of tax by operator.
Every operator maintaining a hotel in the City and renting guest rooms in the City, not exempted under Section 10-400, shall collect the tax from the occupant.
(Ord. No. 110419-3, exh. A(34-204), 4-19-2011)
Sec. 10-400. - Exemptions.
The tax authorized by this division shall not apply to:
(1)
Charges made for any rooms, lodgings, or accommodations provided to any persons who certify that they are staying in such room, lodging, or accommodation as a result of the destruction of their home or residence by fire or other casualty;
(2)
The use of meeting rooms and other such facilities or any rooms, lodgings, or accommodations provided without charge;
(3)
Any rooms, lodgings, or accommodations furnished for a period of one or more days for use by State or local governmental officials or employees when traveling on official business. Notwithstanding the availability of any other means of identifying the person as a State or local government official or employee, whenever a person pays for any rooms, lodgings, or accommodations with a State or local government credit or debit card, such rooms, lodgings, or accommodations shall be deemed to have been furnished for use by a State or local government official or employee traveling on official business for purposes of the exemption provided by this subsection. For the purpose of the exemption provided under this subsection, a local government official or employee shall include officials or employees of counties, municipalities, consolidated governments, or county or independent school districts; or
(4)
Charges made for continuous use of any rooms, lodgings, or accommodations after the first 30 days of continuous occupancy.
(Ord. No. 110419-3, exh. A(34-205), 4-19-2011)
Sec. 10-401. - Registration of operator; form and contents; execution; certificates of authority.
Every person engaging or about to engage in business as an operator of a hotel in the City shall immediately register with the City Clerk on a form provided by the Clerk. Persons engaged in such business shall register not later than 30 days after the effective date of the ordinance from which this division is derived. The privilege of registration after the imposition of the tax shall not relieve any person from the obligation of payment or collection of tax, on and after the date of imposition thereof, regardless of registration. The registration shall set forth the name under which the person transacts business or intends to transact business, the location of the place of business and any other information which would facilitate the collection of the tax as the City Clerk may require. The registration shall be signed by the owner if a natural person; in case of ownership by an association or partnership, by a member or partner; in the case of ownership by a corporation, by an officer thereof. The City Clerk shall, after registration, issue without charge a certificate of authority to each operator to collect the tax from the occupant. A separate registration shall be required for each place of business of an operator. Each certificate shall state the name and location of the business to which it is applicable.
(Ord. No. 110419-3, exh. A(34-206), 4-19-2011)
Sec. 10-402. - Due date of taxes.
Taxes hereunder shall be due and payable to the City monthly on or before the 20th day of every month next succeeding each respective monthly period as set forth in Section 10-403.
(Ord. No. 110419-3, exh. A(34-207), 4-19-2011)
Sec. 10-403. - Information on return.
On or before the 20th day of the month following each monthly period, a return for the preceding monthly period shall be filed with the City Clerk showing the gross rent, rent from permanent residents, taxable rent, amount of tax collected or otherwise due for the related period, and such other information as may be required by the City Clerk.
(Ord. No. 110419-3, exh. A(34-208), 4-19-2011)
Sec. 10-404. - Operator's deduction.
Operators collecting the tax shall be allowed a percentage of the tax due and accounted for and shall be reimbursed in the form of a deduction in submitting, reporting and payment of the amount due, if the amount is not delinquent at the time of payment. The rate of the deduction shall be the same rate authorized for deductions under the provisions of O.C.G.A. § 48-13-52.
(Ord. No. 110419-3, exh. A(34-209), 4-19-2011)
Sec. 10-405. - Deficiency determinations.
(a)
Recomputation of tax. If the City Clerk is not satisfied with the return of the tax or the amount of the tax required to be paid to the City by any person, the Clerk may compute and determine the amount required to be paid upon the basis of any information within the Clerk's possession or that may come into the Clerk's possession. One or more deficiency determinations may be made of the amount due for one or more monthly periods.
(b)
Interest on deficiency. The amount of the determination shall bear interest at the rate of one percent per month, or fraction thereof, from the due date of taxes.
(c)
Service of notice. The City Clerk shall give to the operator written notice of the determination. The notice may be served personally or by mail. If served by mail, the service shall be addressed to the operator at the address as it appears in the records of the City Clerk. Service by mail is complete when delivered by certified mail with a receipt signed by the addressee.
(d)
Time limitation on mailing notice. Except in the case of failure to make a return, every notice of a deficiency determination shall be mailed within three years after the 20th day of the calendar month following the monthly period for which the amount is proposed to be determined, or within three years after the return is filed, whichever period should last expire.
(Ord. No. 110419-3, exh. A(34-210), 4-19-2011)
Sec. 10-406. - Failure to file return.
(a)
Estimate of gross receipts or total rentals. If any person fails to make a return, the City Clerk shall make an estimate of the amount of the gross receipts of the person, or as the case may be, of the amount of the total rentals in the City which are subject to the tax. The estimate shall be made for the period in respect to which the person failed to make the return and shall be based upon any information which is or may come into the possession of the City Clerk. Written notice shall be given in the manner prescribed in Section 10-405.
(b)
Interest. The amount of the determination shall bear interest at the rate of one percent per month, or fraction thereof, from the 20th day of the month following the monthly period, for which the amount or any portion thereof should have been returned, until the date of payment.
(Ord. No. 110419-3, exh. A(34-211), 4-19-2011)
Sec. 10-407. - Administration.
(a)
Authority of the City Clerk. The City Clerk shall administer and enforce the provisions of this division for the collection of the tax imposed by this division.
(b)
Records required from operators. Every operator renting guest rooms in the City to a person shall keep any records, receipts, invoices and other pertinent papers in such form as the City Clerk may require.
(c)
Examination of records and facilities. The City Clerk may examine or cause to be examined the books, papers, records, financial reports, equipment and other facilities of any operator renting guest rooms to a person and any operator liable for the tax, in order to verify the accuracy of any return made, or if no return is made by the operator, to ascertain and determine the amount required to be paid.
(d)
Filing of reports. In administration of the provisions of this division, the City Clerk may require the filing of reports by any persons or class of persons having in the person's possession or custody information relating to rentals of guest rooms which are subject to the tax. The reports shall be filed with the Clerk when required by the Clerk and shall set forth the rental charged for each occupancy, the date of occupancy, and such other information as the Clerk may require.
(Ord. No. 110419-3, exh. A(34-212), 4-19-2011)
Sec. 10-408. - Penalties.
(a)
Time limitation At any time within three years after any tax or any amount of tax required to be collected becomes due and payable and at any time within three years after the delinquency of any tax or any amount of tax required to be collected, the City Clerk may bring an action in a court of competent jurisdiction in the name of the City to collect the amount delinquent together with interest, court fees, filing fees, attorneys' fees and other legal fees incident thereto.
(b)
Successor to withhold amount due. If any operator liable for any amount under this division sells the business or quits the business, the successors or assigns thereof shall withhold a sufficient amount of the purchase price to cover the amount due the City until the former owner produces a receipt from the City Clerk showing payment or a certificate stating that no amount is due.
(Ord. No. 110419-3, exh. A(34-213), 4-19-2011)
Sec. 10-409. - Liability of successor; credit for overpayment.
(a)
Liability of successor. If the purchaser of a business fails to withhold the purchase price as required, said purchaser shall be personally liable for the payment of the amount required to be withheld by the purchaser to the extent of the purchase price.
(b)
Credit for overpayment. Whenever the amount of any tax or interest has been paid more than once or has been erroneously or illegally collected or received by the City under this division, it may be offset by the City Clerk. If the operator or person determines that such person has overpaid or paid more than once, which fact has not been determined by the City Clerk, the operator shall have three years from the date of payment to file claim in writing stating the specific ground upon which the claim is founded. The claim shall be audited. If the claim is approved by the City Clerk, the excess amount paid the City may be credited on any amounts then due and payable from the person by whom it was paid, or by administrators or executors thereof.
(Ord. No. 110419-3, exh. A(34-214), 4-19-2011)
