ARTICLE III. - ELECTIONS

Sec. 3-101. - Wards.
The city is hereby divided into four wards to be designated respectively as Wards A, B, C, and D. The boundaries of these wards are set forth in legal descriptions that are set forth in Appendix I attached to this charter. Said appendix is incorporated herein as if fully set forth in this section.
(Ord. No. 194-023 , ยง 1(Exh. A), 2-20-23)
Sec. 3-102. - Reapportionment of wards.
Subject to the limitations of state and federal law, the city council shall apportion the wards of the city from which members of the city council are elected following publication of the 2010 United States decennial census and any such future census. Such reapportionment shall be effective for the election of members to the city council at the next regular general municipal election following the publication of the decennial census.
Sec. 3-103. - Election of councilmembers and mayor.
(a)
Election of councilmembers. The eight councilmembers of the city council shall be elected as follows:
(1)
Ward councilmembers. There shall be one councilmember elected from each of the four wards in the city. Each ward councilmember shall be a resident of the ward in which he or she seeks election and shall be elected exclusively by the qualified electors residing within each such ward at the place or places as the city council designates. The elections for the ward councilmembers shall be on the date of the general election and quadrennially thereafter. The terms of all regularly elected ward councilmembers shall be as set forth in section 2-105 of this charter.
(2)
At-large councilmembers. There shall be four at-large councilmembers elected. One councilmember shall be a resident of Ward A, one councilmember shall be a resident of Ward B, one councilmember shall be a resident of Ward C, and one councilmember shall be a resident of Ward D, and each shall be elected by the qualified electors of the entire city at such place or places as the city council designates. The election for the at-large councilmembers shall be on the date of the general election and quadrennially thereafter. The terms of all regularly elected at-large councilmembers shall be as set forth in Section 2-105 of this charter.
(b)
Election of mayor. The election of the mayor shall be conducted on a city-wide basis held and elected exclusively by qualified voters in the entire city at such place or places as the city council designates. The election of the mayor shall next be conducted on the date of the general election. The term of the mayor shall be as set forth in section 2-105 of this charter.
Sec. 3-104. - Special elections.
In the event that the office of mayor or any councilmember shall become vacant for any cause, the city council shall order a special election to fill the balance of the unexpired term of such official; provided, however, that, if the vacancy occurs within 12 months of the expiration of the term of that office, the city council shall appoint a successor for the remainder of the term.
Sec. 3-105. - Conduct of elections.
Except as set forth in this charter, all regular and special city elections shall be held pursuant to Chapter 2 of Title 21 of the O.C.G.A., the "Georgia Election Code," or such other applicable laws as are or may hereafter be enacted.
Sec. 3-106. - Nonpartisan elections.
All elections for the purpose of electing the mayor and members of the city council shall be nonpartisan, and no political party shall conduct primaries for the purpose of nominating candidates for municipal elections.
