Chapter 28 - LAW ENFORCEMENT[1]
Footnotes:
--- (1) ---
State Law reference— Law enforcement generally, O.C.G.A. § 35-1-1 et seq.; compensation of law enforcement officers on commission basis prohibited, O.C.G.A. § 36-30-9; dispatch centers to have trained communications officers on staff, O.C.G.A. § 36-26-19.

ARTICLE I. - IN GENERAL

Secs. 28-1—28-18. - Reserved.
ARTICLE II. - POLICE DEPARTMENT

Sec. 28-19. - Composition and rank.
The police department shall consist of the chief of police and such other officers and personnel as the mayor and council shall prescribe. Following the police chief in rank shall be the major, the lieutenants, and the police officers, in order of seniority in each group.
Sec. 28-20. - Oath.
Prior to entering upon the duties of their respective offices, all officers of the police department shall take and subscribe the oath prescribed by the city council.
Sec. 28-21. - Police chief.
(a)
The police chief shall be appointed by the mayor, with the advice and consent of city council, and shall be the chief executive officer of the police department, subject always to the orders and regulations of the mayor and the city council.
(b)
In the exercise of his duties, the police chief shall have the power to establish and enforce rules and regulations and standard operating procedures for the government of the members and employees of the department, which rules shall, however, be consistent with this Code, all other resolutions and ordinances of the city, and the laws of the state.
(c)
In the event of resignation, removal, death, or disability of the police chief, the officer next in rank shall perform the duties of the chief until removal of such disability or until a successor has been duly appointed.
Sec. 28-22. - Duties of police chief.
The police chief shall have the following duties:
(1)
Attend, upon request, meetings of the city council and trials before the municipal court;
(2)
See to the proper service of all summonses, subpoenas, citations, executions, attachments, and rules of the city council and of the municipal court;
(3)
See to the collection of all fines and costs imposed by the municipal court;
(4)
See that the ordinances, rules, and regulations of the city and all statutes applicable therein are faithfully enforced;
(5)
Preserve the public peace, prevent infractions of the law, and arrest violators thereof;
(6)
Protect the rights of persons and property;
(7)
Hire officers qualified pursuant to the provisions of this article, and to discipline police officers, up to and including termination of employment;
(8)
Oversee the conduct of the officers and men of the police force and be responsible for such conduct and for the general good order of the department;
(9)
Keep adequate records of all personnel and equipment of the department, including a log of all complaints, activities, and investigations;
(10)
Submit a monthly report to the city council outlining the number and type of arrests for state offenses, the number and type of cases involving violations of municipal ordinances, and the number of arrests made and cases reported by each police officer;
(11)
Submit monthly to the state department of public safety the "uniform crime report" prescribed by state law O.C.G.A. § 35-3-36;
(12)
Designate when necessary certain vehicles as emergency vehicles, provided that such vehicles are registered with the police and in the records of the city; and
(13)
Discharge such other duties as may be required by the mayor and the city council.
Sec. 28-23. - Qualifications of police officers.
Any person employed by the city as a police officer shall have the following qualifications:
(1)
Be at least 18 years of age;
(2)
Be a citizen of the United States and a resident of the city;
(3)
Have a high school diploma or its recognized equivalent;
(4)
Not have been convicted, by any state or by the federal government, of any crime, the punishment for which could have been imprisonment in a federal or state prison or institution; nor shall he have been convicted of sufficient misdemeanors to establish a pattern of disregard for the law;
(5)
Be fingerprinted and a search made of local, state, and national fingerprint files to disclose any criminal records;
(6)
Possess good moral character as determined by investigation procedure established by the state peace officers standards and training council;
(7)
Have an oral interview with the police chief and/or the city's chief administrative officer to determine such things as applicant's appearance, background, and ability to communicate;
(8)
Be found, after examination by a licensed physician or surgeon, to be free from any physical, emotional, or mental conditions that might adversely affect his exercising the powers or duties of a police officer;
(9)
Complete satisfactorily at least a basic course of 114 hours of instruction within 12 months of the date of his appointment as a police officer, except that an extension may be granted by the state peace officers standards and training council on account of illness, injury, military service, or other reasons deemed sufficient by said council; and
(10)
Hold no other job either incompatible or inconsistent with the job of city police officer without the permission of the police chief.
Sec. 28-24. - Duties of police officers.
It is the duty of the officers of the police department to acquire a full knowledge of, and to enforce all of the ordinances of the city and all statutes applicable therein, to become familiar with the rules and regulations established by the police chief concerning the discipline, good order, proper conduct, care, and management of the police department, and to respect and obey all orders of the police chief not in conflict with the law or ordinances of the city.
Sec. 28-25. - Police operations manual.
The chief of police shall be responsible for compilation and maintenance of the city police department operations manual, a copy of which shall be available in the office of city clerk and the city police chief.
Sec. 28-26. - Arrest authority.
Police officers of the city may make arrests for violations of this Code, municipal ordinances, and state laws when such violations are committed in their presence or when they have obtained a valid arrest warrant from the judge of the municipal court or from some other proper authority. In exercising such power of arrest, all police officers shall see that all necessary warnings are given to the accused as required by law.
Sec. 28-27. - Disposition of stolen, abandoned, or impounded property.
Disposition of all personal property seized or abandoned and in the custody of the police department shall be disposed of only in accordance with O.C.G.A. § 17-5-54 and related provisions of state law.
