ARTICLE IX. - DAYS AND HOURS OF SALES; ESTABLISHMENT'S AREAS OF SALE

Sec. 6-191. - Hours of sale by retailers and retail consumption dealers; Sunday sales.
(a)
The retail sale of alcoholic beverages in unbroken containers or packages for consumption off of the premises where sold, at an establishment otherwise licensed for such sales, is authorized between the hours of 8:00 a.m. and 2:00 a.m. every day, except on Sundays when such sales are prohibited.
(b)
The retail sale of alcoholic beverages for consumption on the premises where sold at an establishment otherwise licensed for such sales (other than restaurants) is authorized between hours of 8:00 a.m. and 2:00 a.m. every day, except on Sundays when such sales are prohibited.
(c)
The retail sale of alcoholic beverages for consumption on the premises where sold at a restaurant licensed for such sales is authorized between hours of 8:00 a.m. and 2:00 a.m. every day, except on Sundays when such sales are authorized between the hours of 12:30 p.m. and 12:00 midnight.
(d)
The retail sale of alcoholic beverages for consumption off and consumption on premises where sold, at an establishment otherwise licensed for such sales, is prohibited on Christmas Day, Sundays, or at any time in violation of a local ordinance or regulation or of a special order of the governing authority.
(Ord. of 12-12-2016, art. IX, § 9-1)
Sec. 6-192. - Sales during elections.
Pursuant to the delegation of authority granted to the board of commissioners by O.C.G.A. § 3-3-20(b)(2)(B), the wholesale or retail sale or distribution of alcoholic beverages pursuant to a license issued pursuant to this chapter and otherwise in compliance with the requirements of this chapter shall be lawful during the polling hours of any election. However, no person shall sell alcoholic beverages within 250 feet of any polling place or of the outer edge of any building within which such polling place is established on primary or election days during such time as the polls are open.
(Ord. of 12-12-2016, art. IX, § 9-2)
Sec. 6-193. - Wholesaler hours of sale.
The wholesale trade in alcoholic beverages in the unincorporated areas of the county by wholesalers, otherwise licensed for and as such under this chapter, is allowed 24 hours a day, except on Sundays when such sales are prohibited by O.C.G.A. § 3-3-20(a).
(Ord. of 12-12-2016, art. IX, § 9-3)
Sec. 6-194. - Establishment's areas of sale.
(a)
Retail consumption dealers licensed for on premises consumption of any alcoholic beverages shall not knowingly allow or permit patrons of the licensed establishment to remain inside the licensed establishment where such alcoholic beverages are sold during times that the licensed establishment is not authorized or permitted to operate the licensed activity or during times that the licensed establishment is not otherwise open for business.
(b)
Retail consumption dealers licensed for on premises consumption of any alcoholic beverages shall not knowingly allow or permit patrons of the licensed establishment or other persons to remain on the outside portions of the licensed establishment (including its parking lots(s) and other outdoor areas) where such alcoholic beverages are sold where such patron or other person is then currently possessing, selling, distributing, or consuming any alcoholic beverages.
(c)
Retail dealers shall only sell and distribute, and retail consumption dealers shall only sell, distribute, and permit consumption of, alcoholic beverages at the licensed establishment in public areas of the establishment generally open and available to all patrons of such establishment. Provided, however, that private events (as defined in this chapter) shall be permitted in entire buildings, rooms, halls or areas, indoors or out of doors, in each case generally available for private events at the establishment of a retail consumption dealer.
(d)
Establishments licensed for retail sale of any alcoholic beverages for consumption on the premises which establishment has any patio, deck or similar outdoor areas for the sale and consumption of alcoholic beverages by its patrons shall cause such outdoor areas to be constructed in a manner which prevents non-emergency entry or exit by patrons or other persons to such outdoor area except through an entryway connecting such outdoor area directly with the general public indoor areas of such establishment and, further, shall not knowingly allow or permit non-emergency entry or exit to such outdoor areas except through such entry way connecting such outdoor areas with such establishment's general public indoor areas.
(Ord. of 12-12-2016, art. IX, § 9-4)
Secs. 6-195—6-210. - Reserved.
