ARTICLE X. - R-2 MULTIPLE-FAMILY RESIDENTIAL (MFR) DEVELOPMENT (SUBDIVISION) STANDARDS

Sec. 1. - MFR Placement Requirements.
new
Multi-Family Residential District (MFR) requirements pertaining to placement in a Residential Development (Subdivision). This pertains to all minor and major subdivisions located in this Section. See Subdivision definitions.
Sec. 2. - MFR Dimensional Requirements.
new
Multi-family development within the MFR district, shall meet the following dimensional requirements.
1.
Minimum required lot area for the first dwelling unit 6,000 square feet.
2.
Minimum additional lot area per dwelling unit for each unit in excess of one, 3,000 square feet.
3.
Multi-family shall not exceed six units per acre = one unit per 7,560 square feet.
4.
Minimum required lot width of 70 feet per dwelling unit plus an additional five feet of lot width for each unit in excess of one.
5.
Minimum required building setback line is 25 feet from the right-of-way line.
6.
Minimum required side yard ten feet plus one foot for each foot in height that a structure exceeds 20 feet above the elevation at the adjacent lot line nearest to such structure. Corner lots shall have a side yard setback of 20 feet along the side street line. For any side or rear lot line which abuts a single-family or two family residential districts there shall be a buffer as defined in Article XIV.
7.
Minimum required rear yard, 25 feet for single-family and two family residential units and 30 feet for multi-family units, plus one additional foot for each foot in height that the structure exceeds 20 feet above the elevation at the contiguous lot line nearest to such structure.
8.
Maximum possible lot coverage: The total ground area covered by the principal building and all accessory buildings shall not exceed 50 percent of the total lot area.
9.
The height of buildings shall not exceed 45 feet, except upon approval of the Macon County Zoning Board.
10.
All multi-family developments shall meet fire codes including fire walls and shall require the approval of the Fire Marshal.
11.
Multi-family developments shall utilize on-site sewer treatment when not served by a municipal wastewater system.
12.
The only multi-family units that may be developed on parcels with septic tank systems are duplexes and the following standards apply:
12.1
Minimum lot size is one and one-half acre and each dwelling unit shall have a minimum of 1,000 square feet of heated floor space.
12.2
Front yard-50 feet from right-of-way line.
12.3
Side yard-25 feet from property line.
12.4
Back yard-45 feet from property line.
