Chapter 38 - TAXATION[1]
modified
Footnotes:
--- (1) ---
State Law reference— Taxation power of county governments, Ga. Const. art. IX, § IV, ¶ I(a), (b)(2).

ARTICLE I. - IN GENERAL

Secs. 38-1—38-18. - Reserved.
ARTICLE II. - OCCUPATION TAX[2]
modified

Footnotes:
--- (2) ---
State Law reference— Business and occupation taxes, O.C.G.A. § 48-13-2 et seq.

Sec. 38-19. - Tax and license required for business dealings in county.
(a)
No business shall operate without an occupational license.
(b)
For every year, each person engaged in any business, trade, profession, or occupation in the county, whether with a location in the county or in the case of an out-of-state business with no location in the state exerting substantial efforts within the state pursuant to O.C.G.A. § 48-13-7, shall pay an occupation tax for said business, trade, profession, or occupation; which tax and any applicable registration shall be displayed in a conspicuous place in the place of business, if the taxpayer has a permanent business location in the county. If the taxpayer has no permanent business location in the county, such business tax registration shall be shown to the county clerk or to any sheriff's department officers of the county, upon request.
(Res. of 12-19-2005, § 19-36)
Sec. 38-20. - Construction of terms; definitions.
modified
(a)
The following words, terms and phrases, when used in this chapter, shall have the meanings ascribed to them in this section, except where the context clearly indicates a different meaning:
Dominant line means the type of business, within a multiple-line business, that the greatest amount of income is derived from.
Person shall be held to include sole proprietors, corporations, partnerships, nonprofits, or any other form of business organization, but specifically excludes charitable nonprofit organizations which utilize 50 percent of their proceeds for charitable purposes.
Practitioner of profession or occupation means one who by state law requires state licensure regulating such profession or occupation.
(b)
The definitions set forth in O.C.G.A. § 48-13-5 (Specific, Business, and Occupation Taxes—Definitions), shall be effective as definitions of the words, terms and phrases used in this chapter. All words, terms and phrases used herein, other than those specifically defined elsewhere in this chapter, shall have the respective meanings ascribed to them in O.C.G.A. § 48-13-5, and shall have the same scope and effect that the same words, terms and phrases have where used in O.C.G.A. § 48-13-5.
(Res. of 12-19-2005, § 19-37)
Sec. 38-21. - Regulatory fee structure; occupation tax structure.
(a)
A regulatory fee will be imposed as provided under O.C.G.A. § 48-13-9 on those applicable businesses.
(b)
The amounts of the regulatory fee shall be as established by the board of county commissioners, from time to time.
(c)
The regulatory fee schedule for persons in occupations and professions shall be maintained by the county and a copy thereof shall be maintained in the county offices.
(Res. of 12-19-2005, § 19-38)
Sec. 38-22. - Occupation tax levied; restrictions.
modified
(a)
An occupation tax shall be levied upon those businesses and practitioners of professions and occupations with one or more locations or offices in the unincorporated part of the county and/or upon the applicable out-of-state businesses with no location or office in the state pursuant to O.C.G.A. § 48-13-7 based upon the number of employees of the business or practitioner which are working in the county.
(b)
Occupation tax schedule. The tax rate determined by the number of employees for each business, trade, profession, or occupation is as follows and will be developed and updated from time to time by the board of commissioners:
EXPAND
Employees Tax Liability
1—25 $ 25.00
25—50   50.00
50—75   65.00
75—100   85.00
100 or more  100.00
  (Res. of 12-19-2005, § 19-39)
Sec. 38-23. - Paying occupation tax of business with no location in the state.
Registration and assessment of an occupation tax is hereby imposed on those businesses and practitioners of professions with no location or office in the state of the state if the business's largest dollar volume of business in the state is in the county and the business or practitioner:
(1)
Has one or more employees or agents who exert substantial efforts within the jurisdiction of the county for the purpose of soliciting business or serving customers or clients; or
(2)
Owns personal or real property which generates income and which is located within the jurisdiction of the county.
(Res. of 12-19-2005, § 19-40)
Sec. 38-24. - Each line of business to be identified on business registration.
The business registration of each business operated in the local government's jurisdiction shall identify the lines of business that the business conducts. No business shall conduct any line of business without first having that line of business registered with the county clerk and that line of business being noted by the county clerk upon the business registration form which is to be displayed by the business owner.
(Res. of 12-19-2005, § 19-41)
Sec. 38-25. - The number of businesses considered to be operating in the county.
Where a person conducts business at more than one fixed location, each location or place shall be considered a separate business for the purpose of occupation tax.
(Res. of 12-19-2005, § 19-42)
Sec. 38-26. - Professionals as classified in O.C.G.A. § 48-13-9(c)(1) through (18).
Practitioners of professions as described in O.C.G.A. § 48-13-9(c)(1) through (18) shall pay the occupation tax as described in section 38-22(b).
(Res. of 12-19-2005, § 19-43)
Sec. 38-27. - Practitioners exclusively practicing for a government.
Any practitioner whose office is maintained by and who is employed in practice exclusively by the United States, the state, a municipality or county of the state, instrumentalities of the United States, the state, or a municipality or county of the state shall not be required to obtain a license or pay an occupation tax for that practice.
(Res. of 12-19-2005, § 19-44)
Sec. 38-28. - Purpose and scope of tax.
The occupation tax levied herein is for revenue purposes only and is not for regulatory purposes, nor is the payment of the tax made a condition precedent to the practice of any such profession, trade, or calling. The occupation tax only applies to those businesses and occupations which are covered by the provisions of O.C.G.A. §§ 48-13-5 to 48-13-26. All other applicable businesses and occupations are taxed by the local government pursuant to the pertinent general and/or local law and ordinance.
(Res. of 12-19-2005, § 19-45)
Sec. 38-29. - When tax due and payable; effect of transacting business when tax delinquent.
(a)
Each such occupation tax shall be for each calendar year unless otherwise specifically provided. Said registration and occupation tax shall be payable January 1 of each year and shall, if not paid by March 1 of each year, be subject to penalties for delinquency as prescribed in this article. On any new profession, trade, or calling begun in the county, the registration and tax shall be delinquent if not obtained immediately upon beginning business and a 50 percent fee assessed penalty imposed. The tax registration herein provided for shall be issued by the county clerk and if any person, firm, or corporation whose duty it is to obtain a registration shall, after said registration or occupation tax becomes delinquent, transact or offer to transact, in the county, any of the kind of profession, trade, or calling subject to this article without having first obtained said registration, such offender shall, upon conviction by the county magistrate judge, be punished according to the general penalties described in section 1-15.
(b)
In addition to the remedies in subsection (a) of this section, the sheriff may proceed to collect in the same manner as provided by law for tax executions.
(Res. of 12-19-2005, § 19-46)
Sec. 38-30. - Exemption on grounds that business is operated for charitable purpose.
No business on which a business registration or occupation tax is levied by this article shall be exempt from said registration or tax on the ground that such business is operated for a charitable purpose, unless 90 percent or more of the entire proceeds from said business are devoted to such purpose.
(Res. of 12-19-2005, § 19-47)
Sec. 38-31. - Evidence of state registration required if applicable; state registration to be displayed.
(a)
Each person who is licensed by the secretary of state pursuant to title 43 of the Official Code of Georgia Annotated shall provide evidence of proper and current state licensure before county registration may be issued.
(b)
Each person who is licensed by the state shall provide evidence of such license before the county registration may be issued.
(Res. of 12-19-2005, § 19-48)
Sec. 38-32. - Evidence of qualification required if applicable.
Any business required to obtain health permits, bonds, certificates of qualification, certificates of competency, or any other regulatory matter shall first, before the issuance of a county business registration, show evidence that such requirements have been met.
(Res. of 12-19-2005, § 19-49)
Sec. 38-33. - Liability of officers and agents; registration required; failure to obtain.
All persons subject to the occupation tax levy pursuant to this article shall be required to obtain the necessary registration for said business as described in this article, and, in default thereof, the officer or agent soliciting for or representing such persons shall be subject to the same penalty as other persons who fail to obtain a registration. Every person commencing business in the county after January 1 of each year shall likewise obtain the registration herein provided for before commencing the same; and any person transacting, or offering to transact in the county, any of the kinds of business, trade, profession, or occupation without first having so obtained said registration, shall be subject to penalties provided thereof.
(Res. of 12-19-2005, § 19-50)
Sec. 38-34. - When registration and tax due and payable; effect of transacting business when tax delinquent.
(a)
Each such registration shall be for the calendar year in which the registration was obtained unless otherwise specifically provided. There is hereby imposed a penalty upon each business which fails to apply for and obtain an appropriate business registration and pay all tax and fees as provided herein before March 1 of each year, and on March 1 of each year hereafter. Every person commencing business in the county after January 1 of each year shall obtain the registration required before commencing such business. Any person transacting or offering to transact in the county any business, trade, profession, or occupation without first having obtained said registration shall be subject to the penalties provided in section 38-35. Said penalties shall be in addition to all other penalties, civil and criminal herein provided; and may be collected by the remedies herein provided for collection of the occupation tax; and shall have the same lien and priority as the occupation tax to which the penalty is applied.
(b)
The registration herein provided for shall be issued by the county superior court clerk, and if any person, firm, or corporation whose duty it is to obtain a registration shall, after said occupation tax becomes delinquent, transact or offer to transact, in the county, any of the kind of business, trade, profession, or occupation without having first obtained said registration, such offender shall be subject to the penalties provided thereof.
(Res. of 12-19-2005, § 19-51)
Sec. 38-35. - Penalty of violation.
Any person violating any provisions of this article shall, upon conviction before the county judge, be punished according to the general penalties described in section 1-15.
(Res. of 12-19-2005, § 19-52)
Sec. 38-36. - The county sheriff; subpoena and arrest powers.
The county commissioners and its duly designated officer and inspectors or its successors shall be classified as deputy sheriff-business inspectors with full subpoena and arrest powers in conjunction with any violation pertaining to the business tax ordinance for 1995 (this law) and succeeding years.
(Res. of 12-19-2005, § 19-53)
Sec. 38-37. - Businesses not covered by this chapter.
The following businesses are not covered by the provisions of this chapter but may be assessed an occupation tax or other type of tax pursuant to the provisions of other general laws of the state or by local law:
(1)
Those businesses regulated by the state public service commission.
(2)
Those electrical service businesses organized under chapter 3 of title 46 of the Official Code of Georgia Annotated.
(3)
Any farm operation for the production from or on the land of agricultural products, but not including agribusiness.
(4)
Cooperative marketing associations governed by O.C.G.A. § 2-10-105.
(5)
Insurance companies governed by O.C.G.A. § 33-8-8 et seq.
(6)
Motor common carriers governed by O.C.G.A. § 46-7-15.
(7)
Those businesses governed by O.C.G.A. § 48-5-355. (Businesses that purchase carload lots of guano, meats, meal, flour, bran, cottonseed, or cottonseed meal and hulls.)
(8)
Agricultural products and livestock raised in the state governed by O.C.G.A. § 48-5-356.
(9)
Depository financial institutions governed by O.C.G.A. § 48-6-93.
(10)
Facilities operated by a charitable trust governed by O.C.G.A. § 48-13-55.
(Res. of 12-19-2005, § 19-54)
Sec. 38-38. - Occupation tax inapplicable where prohibited by law or provided for pursuant to other existing law.
An occupation tax shall not apply to any part of a business where such levy is prohibited or exempted by the laws of the state or of the United States.
(Res. of 12-19-2005, § 19-55)
Sec. 38-39. - Occupation taxes levied on business to be transacted during current calendar year.
On or before January 1 of each year, the owner, proprietor, manager, or executive officer of the business liable for said occupation tax levied for the year shall file with the county clerk, on a form furnished by the county clerk, a signed return setting forth the actual number of employees of such business during the preceding calendar year.
(Res. of 12-19-2005, § 19-57)
Sec. 38-40. - When occupation tax payable, delinquent.
The amount of occupation tax shall be payable to the county, at the office of the county commission, on January 1 each year and delinquent if not paid on or before March 1 each year.
(Res. of 12-19-2005, § 19-58)
Sec. 38-41. - Payment of occupation tax by newly established businesses.
In the case of a business subject to occupation tax for a calendar year, which was not conducted for any period of time in the corporate limits of the county in the preceding year, the owner, proprietor, manager, or executive officer of the business liable for occupation tax shall estimate the number of employees from commencing date to the end of the calendar year and such tax shall be paid based on that number in accordance with section 38-22 the succeeding year.
(Res. of 12-19-2005, § 19-59)
Sec. 38-42. - More than one place or line of business.
Where a business is operated at more than one place or where the business includes more than one line, said business will pay an occupation tax in accordance with the prevailing taxing method and tax rate for the dominant line at each location.
(Res. of 12-19-2005, § 19-60)
Sec. 38-43. - Tax registration to be revoked for failure to pay tax, file returns, permit inspection of books.
Upon the failure of any business to pay said occupation tax or any part thereof before it becomes delinquent, or upon failure to make any of said returns within the time required herein, or upon failure to make a true return, or upon failure to amend a return to set forth the truth, or upon failure to permit inspection of its books as above provided, any business tax registration granted by the county under this article permitting the owner of said business to do business for the current year shall be, ipso facto, revoked. No new business tax registration shall be granted by the county for the operation of a business for which any part of the occupation tax herein provided for is at that time unpaid, or to an individual, firm, or corporation who has failed to submit adequate records as requested by the county clerk in accordance with provisions found in section 38-40. In the case of those practitioners where the local government cannot suspend the right of the practitioner to conduct business, the imposition of civil penalties shall be permitted and pursued by the local government in the case of delinquent occupation tax.
(Res. of 12-19-2005, § 19-61)
Sec. 38-44. - Effect of failure to comply with article provisions; continuing in business after tax registration revocation.
Any persons, their managers, agents, or employees, who do business in said county after the registration for said business has been revoked as above, are hereby required to make occupation tax returns, and who fail to make said returns within the time and in the manner herein provided, who refuse to amend such returns so as to set forth the truth, or who shall make false returns; and any persons, their managers, agents, or employees who refuse to permit an inspection of books in their charge when the officers, agents, employees, or representatives of the county request such inspection, during business hours, for the purpose of determining the accuracy of the returns herein provided for, shall be subject to penalties provided herein. In the case of those practitioners where the local government cannot suspend the right of the practitioner to conduct business, the imposition of civil penalties shall be permitted and pursued by the local government in the case of delinquent occupation tax. These penalties may consist of either a percentage of the amount due or a flat fee fine.
(Res. of 12-19-2005, § 19-62)
Sec. 38-45. - Lien taken for delinquent occupation tax.
In addition to the other remedies herein provided for the collection of the occupation tax herein levied, the county clerk, upon any tax or installment of said tax becoming delinquent and remaining unpaid, shall issue execution for the correct amount of said tax against the persons, partnership, or corporation liable for said tax, which said execution shall bear interest at the rate of 12 percent per annum from the date when such tax or installment becomes delinquent, and the lien shall cover the property (in the county) of the person, partnership, or corporation liable for said tax, all as provided by the ordinances of said county and the laws of the state. The lien of said occupation tax shall become fixed on and date from the time when such tax or any installment thereof becomes delinquent. The execution shall be levied by the sheriff or other appropriate officer of said county upon the property of defendant located in said jurisdiction, and sufficient property shall be advertised and sold to pay the amount of said execution, with interest and costs. All other proceedings in relation thereto shall be had as is provided by ordinances of said county and the laws of the state, and the defendant in said execution shall have rights of defense, by affidavit of illegality and otherwise, which are provided by the applicable laws in regard to tax executions. When a nulla bona entry has been entered by proper authority upon an execution issued by the county clerk against any person defaulting on the occupation tax, the person against whom the entry was made shall not be allowed or entitled to have or collect any fees or charges whatsoever for services rendered after the entry of the nulla bona. If, at any time after the entry of nulla bona has been made, the person against whom the execution issues pays the tax in full together with all interest and costs accrued on the tax, the person may collect any fees and charges due such person as though he had never defaulted in the payment of the taxes.
(Res. of 12-19-2005, § 19-63)
Sec. 38-46. - Amendment, repeal of provision.
This article shall be subject to amendment or repeal, in whole or in part, at any time, and no such amendment or repeal shall be construed to deny the right of the commission to assess and collect any of the taxes or other charges prescribed. Said amendment may increase or lower the amounts and tax rates of any occupation and may change the classification thereof. The payment of any occupation tax provided for shall not be construed as prohibiting the levy or collection by the jurisdiction of additional occupation taxes upon the same person, property, or business.
(Res. of 12-19-2005, § 19-64)
Sec. 38-47. - Provisions to remain in full force and effect until changed by governing body.
This article shall remain in full force and effect until changed by amendment adopted by the commission. All provisions hereto relating to any form of tax herein levied shall remain in full force and effect until such taxes have been paid in full.
(Res. of 12-19-2005, § 19-65)
Sec. 38-48. - Requirement of public hearing before tax increase.
The commission shall conduct at least one public hearing before adopting any ordinance or resolution which will increase the rate of occupation tax as set forth in this article.
(Res. of 12-19-2005, § 19-66)
Sec. 38-49. - Option to establish exemption or reduction in occupation tax.
The commission may by subsequent ordinance or resolution provide for an exemption or reduction in occupation tax to one or more types of businesses or practitioners of occupations or professions as part of a plan for economic development or attracting or encouraging selected types of businesses or practitioners of selected occupations or professions. Such exemptions or reductions in occupation tax shall not be arbitrary or capricious, and the reasons shall be set forth in the minutes of the governing authority or in a plan.
(Res. of 12-19-2005, § 19-67)
Sec. 38-50. - Conflicts between specific and general provisions.
Where there is an apparent conflict in this article between specific and general provisions, it is the intention hereof that the specific shall control.
(Res. of 12-19-2005, § 19-68)
Secs. 38-51—38-75. - Reserved.
ARTICLE III. - 9-1-1 CHARGE ON PREPAID WIRELESS SERVICE[3]
modified

Footnotes:
--- (3) ---
State Law reference— Georgia Emergency Telephone Number 9-1-1 Service Act of 1977, O.C.G.A. § 46-5-120 et seq.

Sec. 38-76. - Purpose.
(a)
Part 4 of article 2 of chapter 5 of title 46 of the Official Code of Georgia Annotated, as amended by Act No. 187, Georgia Laws 2011 (O.C.G.A. § 46-5-120 et seq.), authorizes counties and cities that operate a 9-1-1 public safety answering point to impose a 9-1-1 charge on prepaid wireless service at the retail point of sale.
(b)
Pursuant to O.C.G.A. § 46-5-134.2, such charges may be imposed at the rate of $0.75 per retail transaction.
(c)
Revenues received by a county or municipality from such charges must be deposited in the emergency telephone assistance fund maintained by the county or municipality.
(d)
Imposition of the charge on prepaid wireless service is contingent upon the enactment of an ordinance or resolution of the county or municipality.
(e)
The county participates in a 9-1-1 public safety answering point operated by a joint 9-1-1 authority with the following jurisdictions: Dooly County, Marion County, Talbot County, Taylor County, Schley County, Sumter County and Webster County.
(Ord. of 7-21-2011, preamble)
Sec. 38-77. - 9-1-1 charge on prepaid wireless transactions—Imposed on retail wireless public service.
In accordance with O.C.G.A. § 46-5-134.2, there is hereby imposed a prepaid wireless 9-1-1 charge as defined by O.C.G.A. § 46-5-134.2(a)(4) upon every prepaid wireless retail transaction occurring within the jurisdiction of the public service answering point in the amount of $0.75.
(Ord. of 7-21-2011, § 1)
Sec. 38-78. - Same—Collection and remittance.
Prepaid wireless 9-1-1 charges collected by sellers shall be remitted to the commissioner of the department of revenue at the times and in the manner provided by chapter 8 of title 48 of the Official Code of Georgia Annotated with respect to the sales and use tax imposed on prepaid wireless calling service.
(Ord. of 7-21-2011, § 2)
Sec. 38-79. - Depositing of funds; use of funds.
In accordance with O.C.G.A. § 46-5-134.2(j)(5), funds received from charges imposed by this article shall be deposited in an emergency telephone system fund maintained by the Middle Flint Regional Authority pursuant to O.C.G.A. § 46-5-134; all such funds shall be used exclusively for the purposes authorized by O.C.G.A. § 46-5-134(f).
(Ord. of 7-21-2011, § 4)
Secs. 38-80—38-100. - Reserved.
new
ARTICLE IV. - SPECIAL TAXING DISTRICTS FOR ROAD IMPROVEMENTS

Sec. 38-101. - Declaration of policy and purpose.
new
The purpose of this article is to establish a procedure for the paving and/or improvement and public designation of private roads in the unincorporated areas of the county. To that end, this article is adopted in order to effect the creation of road tax districts to pay for such paving and/or improvement.
(Ord. of 5-5-2015, § I)
Sec. 38-102. - Definitions.
new
The following words, terms and phrases, when used in this article, shall have the meanings ascribed to them in this section, except where the context clearly indicates a different meaning.
Property owner shall include all persons, and their successors and assigns, holding fee simple title according to the real estate records of the county within a proposed road tax district at the time the petition for the creation of said district is submitted as provided herein. For the purpose of petitioning of the board of commissioners for the creation of a new road tax district, the property owners shall have one vote per platted parcel within a particular proposed road tax district. The term "property owner" specifically excludes tenants in possession of property within the road tax district.
Road tax district refers to a specific type of special tax district within the county. Special tax districts are authorized pursuant to article 9, section 2, and paragraph VI of the Constitution of the State of Georgia. Road tax districts may be created for property owners to amortize the cost of paving and/or improving a road or roads within the district.
(Ord. of 5-5-2015, § II)
Sec. 38-103. - Road tax districts created; register; responsibility of costs.
new
(a)
New special tax districts which shall be known as road tax districts may be created upon the submission of a proper petition and a resolution of the board of commissioners. Each new road tax district so created shall be assigned a number and be designated by recorded plats showing each parcel therein.
(b)
A register of road tax districts shall be maintained in the office of the board of commissioners and county manager or his/her designee and the office of the county tax commissioner. Such registers shall be available to the public for inspection upon reasonable notice to either of these offices.
(c)
The cost of paving and/or improving the road or roads shall be advanced by the county. The county shall have the authority to contract with the necessary parties to complete the job. The cost of paving and/or improving the road or roads (including, but not limited to construction, any necessary legal, engineering, or survey work) shall then be re-paid by the property owners of the road tax district; amortized over a period of time based on the cost of the project and number of parcels in the proposed district (to be determined and approved by the board of commissioners on a case by case basis). The approved amortized amounts for each owner will be included on the ad valorem real property tax bills and shall bear interest at a rate of prime plus one percent per annum. The pro-rata amortized cost of the paving and/or improvement shall be assigned to each platted parcel within the road tax district. Each parcel, whether vacant or improved, will pay the same assessment. The road tax district shall end upon full payment of the amortized cost to the county.
(d)
Costs incurred by the county in the establishment and collection of the road improvement tax shall be the responsibility of the property owners in the district for which said costs were incurred. An application fee shall be charged by the county to cover the costs to administer the road tax and preliminary engineering fees. The fee will be variable based on the estimated cost of engineering for the proposed project plus $25.00 per parcel for administration. This fee is payable at the time of the submission of the petition and non-refundable. The board of commissioners shall be authorized to adjust the respective rates from time to time by resolution.
(Ord. of 5-5-2015, § III)
Sec. 38-104. - Collection and responsibility for administration.
new
(a)
The amortized cost for road paving and/or improvement in each road tax district shall be paid as a road district tax and shall be collected concurrently with the ad valorem tax billed to each parcel owner within each tax district. The date for determining ownership of each parcel shall be January 1 of each year.
(b)
The administration payment and accounting of the amortized cost herein authorized shall be the responsibility of the county manager or his/her designee, as assigned by the board of commissioners. Any proration of such charges between owners of parcels to which title is transferred during any year shall be the responsibility of the buyers and sellers of such parcels.
(c)
The office of the tax commissioner of the county shall be responsible for the timely collection of taxes, fees and assessments assessed to each road tax district and shall remit such sums to the board of commissioners in the same manner as other taxes are remitted.
(Ord. of 5-5-2015, § IV)
Sec. 38-105. - Lien created.
new
In addition to any other rights of collection for late or unpaid charges, the county shall have all rights available under the laws of the state for the assessment and creation of a tax lien upon the property of the owner receiving the service provided, together with all rights of execution, levy, foreclosure, and sale.
(Ord. of 5-5-2015, § V)
Sec. 38-106. - Deposit and forfeiture.
new
In addition to the charges authorized in this article, the county may require deposits from the property owners within the road tax district in any or all such road tax districts created hereunder in an amount not to exceed one year's prorated cost for the pavement and/or improvement of the road or roads. This deposit shall be held by the county as security for payment for services rendered pursuant to this article, and the county shall have the authority to set off against the deposit for nonpayment for services at such times and on such occasions as shall be determined by the county. Notice of setoff shall be given to the property owner by mail at the address of the property, although advance notice of such setoff shall not be required. In the event of a reduction [of] the deposit of a property owner because of failure to pay charges assessed pursuant to this article, the property owner shall be required to restore the deposit to its required level upon request by the county. Any required deposit as contemplated herein shall be retained by the county so long as the road tax district is in existence. Any deposit remaining in the last year of the road tax district shall be applied by the county to the remaining indebtedness with any excess refunded to the then-current property owner.
(Ord. of 5-5-2015, § VI)
Sec. 38-107. - Creation of road tax districts; constructive knowledge of this article and the road tax districts created pursuant to this article.
new
(a)
Any property owner in the unincorporated area of the county whose parcel has access on a private road created and identified, as such, prior to the approval of this article may present a request for the creation of a road tax district to the county manager or his or her designee. The request shall designate the boundaries for a road tax district which shall serve the property owner presenting the request and other property owners within the described geographical area including any property requiring use of the improved road for access (property does not have to be adjoining directly to the designated road). The request shall include a plat or plats showing the proposed road tax district. The office of the county manager shall then provide a petition to be circulated by the presenter of the request among the property owners in the proposed district.
At least 85 percent of the property owners within the proposed district must sign the petition for the petition to be presented to the board of commissioners. If the proposed road tax district encompasses more than one area or subdivision as shown by plats filed in the public land records of the county, 85 percent of the property owners within the proposed road tax district in each area or subdivision and all of the included areas or subdivisions must sign the petition. Unless 100 percent of the property owners have signed the petition, a public hearing shall be held by the board of commissioners after having advertised one time in the official legal organ of the county, and a sign(s) shall be posted in the proposed road tax district giving notice of the hearing, at least ten days before the public hearing. All petitions for a road improvement district must include a title certificate or other document showing the county's right of way or a letter of commitment from each property owner to convey the road or right of way to the county prior to the implementation of the tax and improvement of the road.
(b)
The petition for the creation of the proposed road improvement tax district must be returned to the county manager within 90 days of the presentment of the request along with the application fee. The county manager or his/her designee shall verify the signatures on the petition and that requisite number of property owners have signed said petition. Said petition must be accompanied by a certificate of title or other document that shows the county's right of way (ROW) in road or a letter of commitment from the owner(s) to convey the road or a right of way to the county before implementation of the tax or paving of the road
(c)
By signing the petition for the creation of a new road tax district, all petitioners within a proposed road tax district shall be deemed to have actual or constructive notice of this division and all the provisions contained herein as well as the request and petition for a road tax district.
(d)
All successors in interest to the property owners within a certain district at the time of the creation of said road tax district shall be deemed to have constructive notice of this division and the existing road tax district or request wherein the parcel is located due to the existence of public records containing such information.
(e)
Upon receipt of a petition as provided herein and after a public hearing, if one is required, the board of commissioners shall take under consideration the establishment of the requested road tax district. The board of commissioners, in its sole discretion, may vote to create one or more such districts based upon all of the evidence presented to the board of commissioners. Nothing contained herein shall create any right by any property owner or owners to the creation of such districts. The creation of one or more such district shall not generate a precedent or obligation on the board of commissioners to approve future requests for a road tax district; rather, each proposed district shall be considered based on the totality of the evidence regarding each respective district. The decision of the board of commissioners, in the exercise of it discretion, shall be final.
(f)
The decision of the board of commissioners to create a special road tax district shall be evidenced by resolution adopted at a regular or special meeting of the board of commissioners.
(Ord. of 5-5-2015, § VII)
Sec. 38-108. - Legislation applicable to private roads only; conveyance of right-of-way to county; termination of road tax district for failure to convey right-of-way or pay deposit, if applicable.
new
(a)
This article shall only be applicable to private roads in the unincorporated area of the county. Road tax districts may be created as provided herein for the paving and/or improvement of such private roads, provided that such private roads are conveyed to the county for public use as provided herein. Provided, however, that road tax districts shall be created to pave unpaved private roads, or to improve paved or unpaved roads to county standards for acceptance by the county.
(b)
After the adoption of a resolution creating a road tax district, but prior to the commencement of any paving and/or improvement to the road or roads within said district, the owner or owners of the road or roads shall convey good and sufficient fee simple title to the right-of-way of said road or roads to the county. If any additional right-of-way is needed for the paving and/or improvement of the road or roads with said district, the property owners in said district shall convey good and sufficient fee simple title to said additional right-of-way to the county. Said right-of-way conveyances shall be at no cost to the county.
(c)
If the owner of the road or roads within a road tax district and/or the property owners within said district fail to convey necessary right-of-way to the county within 60 days after the adoption of the resolution creating the district, the county manager or his/her designee may recommend to the board of commissioners that a subsequent resolution be adopted to terminate said district.
(d)
If the owner of the road or roads within a road tax district and/or the property owners within said district fail to pay the required deposit, if applicable, to the county within 60 days after the adoption of the resolution creating the district, the county manager or his/her designee may recommend to the board of commissioners that a subsequent resolution be adopted to terminate said district.
(Ord. of 5-5-2015, § VIII)
Sec. 38-109. - Federal, state laws to prevail in conflict.
new
If any provision of this article is in conflict with any state or federal law, or with any rule, regulation or order of any agency of this state or federal agency having jurisdiction of the subject of this article, it is hereby deemed to be the intention of the board of commissioners that the state or federal law or rule, regulation or order, as the case may be, shall prevail so that the remaining portion of this article shall be deemed to be of full force and effect.
(Ord. of 5-5-2015, § IX)
