DIVISION 5. - EMPLOYMENT

Sec. 2-161. - Employee categories designated.
modified
There may be several categories of employees as follows:
(1)
Full-time. This includes employees who work 40 hours or more per week in positions which have been created with the anticipation that it will be necessary to maintain the existence of such positions indefinitely on a continuous year-round basis. This in no way implies that the incumbent can expect continued employment as a "property right." This definition refers to the position only, and not the incumbent employee. As full-time employees, these workers are subject to all rules and regulations contained in this article and receive all fringe benefits as provided by these personnel procedures, including vacation and sick leave.
(2)
Acting. Normally, this occurs when an existing employee is placed in a higher level position (usually full-time), until an eligible replacement can be hired. Normally, a position of this type would not exceed six months but may be extended if the need occurs. (If acting employees are not existing employees, then, by definition, they are temporary employees). Employees in these positions are subject to all rules and regulations contained in these procedures. Also, since the category of acting position involves existing employees and full-time positions, employees are eligible for all fringe benefits as provided by these personnel procedures, including vacation and sick leave, provided they meet the full-time requirement.
(3)
Substitute. This includes employees who are hired to temporarily fill existing positions, usually on an intermittent and "as needed' basis. These are essentially the same as temporary employees except that they involve substitutes for existing employees. These positions also may be full-time or part-time, but the substitute employee in the position is a temporary employee. The duration of the position is temporary, and while the duration of this position may vary it will not normally be in excess of six months. As a substitute employee, the worker is subject to all rules and regulations contained in these procedures. However, a substitute employee is not eligible for fringe benefits such as sick leave and vacation leave.
(4)
Part-time. This includes employees who work less than 40 hours per week. As part-time employees, these workers are subject to all rules and regulations contained in these procedures. However, a part-time employee is not eligible for fringe benefits such as sick leave and vacation leave.
(5)
Temporary. This includes employees who are working in positions which have been created for a period of six months or less and which shall remain in existence only as long as the temporary work situation requires it. A temporary position may also be either full-time or part-time. As temporary employees, these workers are subject to all rules and regulations contained in these policies. However, a temporary employee is not eligible for fringe benefits such as sick leave or vacation leave.
(6)
Seasonal. This includes employees who are working in positions that have been created for a seasonal period (i.e., summer work program, summer recreational program, etc.). These positions also may be either full-time or part-time. The duration of the position may vary but normally will not be in excess of six months. As seasonal employees, these workers are subject to all rules and regulations contained in these procedures. However, a seasonal employee is not eligible for fringe benefits such as sick leave and vacation leave.
(Mo. of 12-4-2007, § 5.01)
Sec. 2-162. - Method of filling promotional positions.
(a)
The county has developed a recruitment plan that does not discriminate on the basis of race, color, sex, religion, national origin, age, mental or physical handicap, or political affiliation.
(b)
In general, the county attempts to promote from within, providing that such promotions are consistent with nondiscrimination laws and fair employment practices.
(c)
Existing employees desiring to apply for position vacancies that are promotional in nature must complete an application for the position in the same manner as prescribed for all other applicants.
(Mo. of 12-4-2007, § 5.02)
Sec. 2-163. - Minimum age for employment.
The minimum age for employment of full-time and acting employees shall be 18 years of age unless otherwise established by state law. The minimum employment of all other categories shall be 16 years of age. There is no mandatory retirement age.
(Mo. of 12-4-2007, § 5.03)
Sec. 2-164. - Nepotism (hiring of relatives).
Two members of an immediate family will not be employed under the same supervisor. Nor will two members of an immediate family be employed at the same time by the county, regardless of the administrative department, if such employment will result in an employee supervising directly or indirectly, a member of the employee's immediate family. This policy applies to promotions, demotions, transfers, reinstatements, and new employees. The provisions of this section will not be retroactive, in that no action is to be taken concerning those members of the same family employed at the time of the adoption of this section. Immediate family is defined as wife, husband, mother, father, brother, sister, son and daughter.
(Mo. of 12-4-2007, § 5.04)
Sec. 2-165. - Recruitment for vacant positions.
(a)
All full-time vacancies shall be publicized by posting announcements and by other such means as necessary to ensure obtaining well qualified candidates for the positions. The announcement shall specify the title and salary range of the vacant position, minimum qualification requirements, manner of making application, final date on which applications shall be received, and other pertinent information. Every reasonable effort shall be made to publicize vacancies so that all interested persons are informed and qualified persons are attracted to compete.
(b)
Recruitment may be closed to consider only qualified current employees or may be open for public competition. When a vacancy occurs, a recruitment plan will be developed by the county manager and the hiring authority based on current organizational needs.
(Mo. of 12-4-2007, § 5.05)
Sec. 2-166. - Application process.
Application shall be made on forms provided by the county manager. Such forms shall require information covering training, experience, and other job-related information. All applications shall be signed by the person applying. All persons must be informed that the application will be placed in an active file for a period of six months.
(Mo. of 12-4-2007, § 5.06)
Sec. 2-167. - Working out of class.
(a)
In order to cover vacation periods of other employees, vacancies, illnesses and similar occurrences, an employee may be assigned temporarily to a position with a different pay. Where the temporary assignment is for a period constituting a full work week or longer, a non-exempt employee shall be paid according to the following schedule:
(1)
If the pay for the temporarily assigned position is less than the employee's pay, the employee will receive the employee's normal rate of pay.
(2)
If the pay for the temporarily assigned position is greater than the employee's pay, the employee shall be paid the employee's normal rate of pay plus two percent.
(b)
Exempt employees may request a temporary pay adjustment for periods where the employee is temporarily assigned to a position with a higher pay for a period of 30 days or longer. The employee will receive the pay rate for the assigned position or a 2.5 percent increase in the employee's pay, whichever is greater.
(c)
No employee shall work out of class for more than six months.
(Mo. of 4-21-2011(02))
Secs. 2-168—2-187. - Reserved.
