DIVISION 1. - GENERALLY

Sec. 2-49. - Purpose and statement of intent.
(a)
This employee handbook of personnel procedures is intended to be a general statement of the personnel procedures of the county and is subject to change at anytime without prior notice to employees.
(b)
Title 34 chapter 7 of the Georgia Code creates employment at will conditions in the state and all employees of the county are "at will" employees. This means that all employees are employed for an indefinite time period and that the employer and employee are each free to terminate the employment relationship at any time without notice for any reason.
(c)
The appointing authority (county commissioners or expressly appointed designees) and constitutional officers are the only county officials authorized to appoint employees. Statements, contrary to these "at will" provisions, regarding employment or conditions of employment, made by any other unauthorized county official or employee, should not be construed or interpreted by the employee as modifying or changing the conditions of employment contained in this handbook. All employees are "at will" employees and serve at the pleasure of the appointing authority.
(d)
Although the county is declaring itself an "at will" employer, the county wants to ensure high morale for its employees and a high level of productivity for the people of the county. To accomplish these goals, officials feel that fair and equitable treatment of applicants and employees is desirable. Although all jobs are not identical and, therefore, all conditions of employment will not be identical, many personnel practices can be the same in various departments. Among those practices are methods of requesting, earning, and accumulating annual and sick leave. By including these provisions in these procedures, county officials hope to provide equitable treatment to employees and to assure good personnel practices.
(e)
In no case should any provisions of this handbook be interpreted as an act of conveying the expectation of continued employment or any other relaxation of the employment at will doctrine to the county.
(f)
Neither should any provision of this handbook be interpreted as creating any subsidiary contractual obligations or privileges or conditions of employment between the county and the employee except those specifically listed as follows:
(1)
An employee may earn, accumulate, and take annual leave as specified by these procedures.
(2)
An employee may earn, accumulate, and take sick leave as specified by these procedures.
(3)
An employee may observe holidays (or comparable time off) as specified by these procedures.
(4)
Eligible employees may participate in a county-wide retirement program only if one is available. Specific provisions for eligibility and participation will be as outlined in any retirement ordinance passed or amended by the county commissioners.
(5)
Eligible employees may participate in group insurance and group medical coverage if offered by the county. Specific provisions for eligibility and participation will be in accordance with the terms and specifications as outlined in the group contract or plan in effect or as amended.
(6)
An employee may take military leave with full county pay and, in some cases, leave without pay as specified in these procedures and as provided by state law.
(7)
An employee may retain full jury pay and full county pay only in accordance with these procedures.
(8)
An employee may obtain outside employment in accordance with these procedures.
(Mo. of 12-4-2007, § 1.01)
Sec. 2-50. - Establishment, applicability, and coverage.
(a)
These personnel procedures will apply to all departments in county government. Specifically, six types of employees may be covered, in whole or in part, in participating departments or offices. These types of employees are covered in section 2-161, which defines full-time, temporary, seasonal, acting, substitute, and part-time employees and also outlines the level of coverage, if any, of each.
(b)
Specifically excluded from all provisions of these procedures are members of the county commissioners, members of any appointed board or commission, persons employed to make or conduct a temporary or special inquiry, and those persons paid on a retainer or contract basis, such as the county attorney.
(Mo. of 12-4-2007, § 1.02)
Sec. 2-51. - Administration.
The county commissioners are the appointing authority. However, the county manager is the designee to administer the policies. The county manager may, in turn, appoint other designees, primarily department heads to assist in administering these policies. Constitutional officers shall be the appointing authority for their respective departments and shall administer this policy within that department.
(Mo. of 12-4-2007, § 1.03)
Secs. 2-52—2-75. - Reserved.
