Chapter 6 - ANIMAL CONTROL[1]

Footnotes:
--- (1) ---
State Law reference— Authority to exercise animal control, Ga. Const. art. IX, § II, ¶ III(a)(3); dogs generally, O.C.G.A. § 4-8-1 et seq.; Georgia Animal Protection Act, O.C.G.A. § 4-11-1 et seq.; rabies control and licensing of animals by local authorities, O.C.G.A. § 31-19-1 et seq.

Sec. 6-1. - Definitions.
The following words, terms and phrases, when used in this chapter, shall have the meanings ascribed to them in this section, except where the context clearly indicates a different meaning:
Abandonment. For the purposes of this chapter, abandonment of an animal occurs when an animal has been placed upon public property or within a public building unattended or uncared for, or upon or within the private property of another without the express permission of the owner, custodian or tenant of said private property and unattended or uncared for. Abandonment also occurs when an animal has been placed or kept upon or within the property of the owner or custodian of the animal for a period of time in excess of 36 hours unattended or without proper food and water.
Adequate shelter means protective cover appropriate for the species and providing adequate space to maintain the animal in good health, which also prevents pain, suffering, and a significant risk to the animal's health. The shelter should also be clean, dry, and compatible with current weather conditions, and must take into consideration the age, size, species and condition of the animal. The structure should be of sufficient size to allow the animal to stand, turn around, lie down and go in and out of the structure comfortably. Adequate shelter must be compatible with the number of animals on the property. Furthermore, bedding material that is quick drying such as hay or pine straw, must be provided to maintain comfortable temperatures within the structure during times when the ambient, outside temperature is below freezing. If the shelter is made of wood, it shall be raised at least two inches off the ground to prevent seepage or rotting.
Animal control center means the facility designated by the city council, or its designee, for the detention of animals.
At large means an animal not under restraint.
Domesticated animal means any animal which is accustomed to live in or about the habitation of men, including, but not limited to, cats, cows, dogs, fowl, horses, swine, domesticated wild animals and/or exotic animals.
Guard dog means any dog which has been trained to attack persons or other animals independently or upon oral command or any dog which while not so trained, is reasonably expected to perform as a guardian of the property upon and within which he is located.
Livestock means all animals of the bovine, equine, or fowl class, including, but not limited to, chickens, roosters, goats, sheep, mules, horses, cattle, llamas, and other grazing animals, and all ratites, including, but not limited to, ostriches, emus, and rheas.
Owner means any person owning, possessing, keeping, harboring or acting as custodian of a domesticated animal.
Under restraint means any animal:
(1)
Enclosed by way of fence or other enclosure;
(2)
Kept on a leash under the control of a responsible and competent person; or
(3)
Confined within a vehicle, parked or in motion.
Unsanitary conditions means an animal living space, including shelter and exercise area, contaminated by health hazards, irritants, items, or conditions that endanger or pose a risk to an animal's health, including, but not limited to:
(1)
Excessive animal waste;
(2)
Garbage, trash, or an outflow of waste;
(3)
Standing water or mud;
(4)
Rancid/contaminated food or water;
(5)
Fumes, foul or noxious odors, contaminated air, hazardous chemicals, or poisons;
(6)
Decaying materials;
(7)
Uncontrolled parasite or rodent infestation; or
(8)
Areas that contain nails, screws, broken glass, broken boards, pits, poisons, sharp implements, or other items that could cause injury, illness, or death to an animal.
Vicious animal means:
(1)
Any animal with a propensity, tendency, or disposition to attack, to cause injury to, or to otherwise endanger the safety of humans, or other domestic animals; or
(2)
Any animal which attacks a human being or other domestic animal one or more times without provocation.
(Comp. Ords. 2001, § 8.3; Ord. of 6-27-2005, § (a); Ord. of 4-23-2019, § I; Ord. of 5-14-2019, § I; Ord. No. 2021-06-11 , § I, 8-10-2021)
Sec. 6-2. - Maintaining an unsanitary condition so as to disturb peace; duties of the property owner.
It shall be unlawful for any person to keep or maintain any fowl or other animal in the corporate limits of the city in any manner so as to create an unsanitary or obnoxious condition or so as to disturb the peace. It shall be the duty of the owner of property to maintain clean and sanitary conditions for all structures, pens, yards, and areas adjacent thereto wherein any animal is kept. Such areas shall also be free from extreme and unreasonably objectionable odor and other unsanitary conditions. All animals on a property must have adequate shelter.
(Ord. No. 2021-06-11 , § II, 8-10-2021)
Editor's note— Ord. No. 2021-06-11 , § II, adopted Aug. 10, 2021, amended § 6-2 in its entirety to read as herein set out. Former § 6-2 pertained to public nuisance, and derived from Comp. Ords. 2001, § 8.4.
Sec. 6-3. - Violations.
Any person who violates this chapter may be cited for said violation by the police, or any other designee. Such violations are subject to the penalties provided in this Code; however, the city may take other measures as permitted by law to ensure compliance with this chapter.
Sec. 6-4. - Running at large prohibited.
It shall be unlawful for the owner of any animal, or anyone having an animal in his custody, to allow it to run at large on or about the streets and highways of the city, or on the property of another person without permission of the owner of that property, or of the person in possession of that property.
(Comp. Ords. 2001, § 8.5; Ord. of 6-27-2005, § (b); Ord. of 9-13-2011, § (a); Ord. of 3-10-2015, § (a); Ord. of 4-23-2019, § II)
Sec. 6-5. - Livestock parcel and animal health requirements.
(a)
The minimum parcel size of livestock is five acres.
(b)
There shall be at least one acre of fenced area for each animal unit, excluding poultry, small animals, goats, and sheep.
(c)
All livestock buildings or feeding enclosures shall be set back not less than 200 feet from any property line. A pasture shall not be defined as a feeding enclosure.
(d)
At all times livestock shall be confined to the premises and not be allowed to roam or leave the premises unless under proper supervision or control. Bovine and equine livestock shall be maintained in a fenced area. Indoor housing facilities shall have adequate ventilation to provide for the health of the animals at all times.
(e)
A duly licensed veterinary clinic shall be exempt from the provisions of this section. However, any livestock held on the premises of any such duly licensed veterinary clinic may only be housed for the purposes of medical treatment and shall only be housed on such premises for so long as is reasonably necessary to complete medical treatment for any such livestock.
(Comp. Ords. 2001, § 8.6; Ord. of 6-27-2005, § (b); Ord. of 9-13-2011, § (a); Ord. of 3-10-2015, § (a); Ord. of 4-23-2019, § II; Ord. of 5-14-2019, § II)
Sec. 6-6. - Vaccinations for rabies; dogs.
All dogs within the incorporated limits of the city shall be inoculated for the prevention of rabies as required by state law.
(Comp. Ords. 2001, § 8.7)
Sec. 6-7. - Identification for dogs.
Any person owning, keeping or harboring any dog within the city limits shall at all times keep on the dog a collar or harness, and the rabies vaccination tag or some other identification tag shall at all times be affixed to the collar or harness. Proper identification shall be by rabies vaccination tag or some other appropriate tag so as to ascertain and identify the owner.
(Comp. Ords. 2001, § 8.8)
Sec. 6-8. - Enforcement.
(a)
Upon information made known to the chief of police, or his authorized representative, that any owner of any dog or animal is in violation of this chapter, he or his authorized representative shall cause a summons to be issued requiring said owner of such dog or animal to appear before the judge of the municipal court on a day and time certain, then and there to stand trial for violation of this chapter. If a violation of this chapter has not been personally witnessed by the chief of police or his authorized representative, a subpoena shall be issued to the person making the complaint, to appear on the day and time set for trial, then and there to testify on behalf of the city. Provided, however, that for a first offense said owner shall be issued a written warning, and only upon a subsequent or continuing violation of the provisions of this chapter shall a summons be issued.
(b)
In addition to any citation that may be issued and to the extent practicable, an animal running at large unattended and whose owner is known shall be taken to the owner's residence, unless no adult person shall be present, in which event it shall be taken to the animal control center.
(c)
In the event that the owner of any dog or animal is not known and such dog or animal is upon the public streets, alleys, sidewalks, school grounds, or other public places or premises or upon the property of another without that property owner's permission as prohibited by this chapter, upon complaint made to, or information made known to, the police department, it shall be the duty of the chief of police or his authorized representative to take possession of the dog or animal and impound it in the animal control center. Such impoundment shall be regulated as hereinafter set out.
(Comp. Ords. 2001, § 8.9)
Sec. 6-9. - Agreement with county for animal control services.
The city has entered into an agreement with the county regarding the operation of animal control services countywide with the addition of the city police department.
(Comp. Ords. 2001, § 8.10)
Sec. 6-10. - Guard dogs.
It shall be the duty of each owner, tenant or custodian of property upon or within which a guard dog is located to conspicuously and prominently post the following notice on the outside of the property: "Warning - Guard Dog" in either red or black letters upon a white background, large enough to be easily read at a distance of 25 feet. In the case of a building, the notice shall be conspicuously posted on or about each and every entrance and exit. In the case of a general enclosure in which a guard dog is located, the notices shall be conspicuously posted upon the enclosure at a distance not greater than 50 feet apart, as well as upon each and every entrance and exit through the enclosure. In the case of apartments, condominiums or business located within a larger building where the guard dog is located within the apartment, condominium or business solely, the notice shall be conspicuously posted on or about each and every entrance and exit. Failure to comply with this section shall be unlawful and shall be punishable as hereinafter provided.
(Comp. Ords. 2001, § 8.14)
Sec. 6-11. - Teasing, molesting and poisoning.
It shall be unlawful for any person to tease, molest, bait, poison or in any way bother any animal not belonging to him or not legally under his control, and any person violating this section shall not be entitled to a warning for a first offense.
(Comp. Ords. 2001, § 8.17)
Sec. 6-12. - Abandonment of animals.
It shall be unlawful for anyone knowingly to abandon any animal within the city. Each person who does knowingly abandon, or willingly permits such abandonment, or aids in the abandonment of any animal, shall be in violation of this chapter and subject to the penalty hereinafter specified, and shall not be entitled to a warning for a first offense.
(Comp. Ords. 2001, § 8.18)
Sec. 6-13. - Wild animals; permit.
No person shall have, keep or maintain any wild, exotic, dangerous or non-domestic animal or reptile without first applying to and receiving from the department of natural resources and the city police department a permit to do so. The charge for this permit shall be as set forth hereinafter.
(Comp. Ords. 2001, § 8.19)
Sec. 6-14. - Wild animals; authority of police department.
The police department is hereby vested with the authority to issue permits to any person for the keeping or maintaining of any wild, exotic, dangerous or non-domestic animal or reptile when, in the opinion of the police chief, any such animal or reptile may be kept or maintained without menacing the safety of any person or property. Provided, however, that the police department may require any such animal or reptile to be properly caged or secured or may make additional rules or regulations regarding the keeping or maintaining of any such animal or reptile, and may revoke any permit for any violation of any of the provisions of this chapter or of any of the rules and regulations of the police department, or when, in the opinion of the police chief, the safety of any person or property is threatened by the keeping of any such animal or reptile.
(Comp. Ords. 2001, § 8.20)
Sec. 6-15. - Fees.
The fees that apply to this chapter shall be paid by the owner or custodian of any animal affected thereby; such fees are established by the city council from time to time.
(Comp. Ords. 2001, § 8.21)
Sec. 6-16. - Penalties.
Unless the city council has established a specific penalty, or a minimum or maximum penalty, which penalties may be set out in a separate schedule maintained by the clerk and amended by the council from time to time, the court will determine an appropriate penalty; the provisions for a general penalty set out herein are otherwise applicable.
(Comp. Ords. 2001, § 8.22; Ord. of 6-27-2005, § (c))
Sec. 6-17. - Payment of anticipated costs of impoundment and care.
(a)
Any agency impounding one or more animals in accordance with any provision of this chapter authorizing impoundment, or otherwise providing care for one or more animals impounded pursuant to this chapter, may file a petition in a court of competent jurisdiction to hear civil cases requesting the court to require the owner of the animal or animals to pay into the registry of such court funds in an amount sufficient to secure payment of all anticipated costs of impoundment and care.
(b)
Every such petition shall contain a description of the time, place, and circumstances of the impoundment, the legal authority for same, and the name and address of the owner of the animal or animals impounded.
(c)
Any sworn peace officer or animal control officer shall personally serve written process of the petition on the owner of the animal or animals. If the officer is unable to personally serve written process of the petition on the owner of the animal or animals within 30 days of the date of filing of the petition, the officer shall within ten days thereafter post a copy of the petition on the door of the residence of the owner or in another conspicuous place at the location where the animal or animals were impounded.
(d)
Upon the court's receipt of return of service of process of the petition on the owner, the court shall set a hearing on the petition to determine the need to care for and provide for the animal or animals pending the final disposition of the animal or animals. The hearing shall be conducted no less than ten and no more than 15 business days after the court's receipt of return of service of process of the petition on the owner.
(1)
The scope of the hearing shall be limited to whether the impounding of the animal or animals was authorized. Upon such a showing, the court shall require payment into the registry of the court of an amount sufficient to cover all costs of impoundment and care, as determined by the court, for a period beginning as of the date of impoundment and ending 30 days after the date of the order. Neither the result of a hearing provided for under this subsection nor a statement of an owner made at any such hearing shall be admissible in any criminal prosecution related to the impoundment of the animal or animals.
(2)
The owner shall be ordered to deposit an amount equal to the portion of the original deposit amount attributable to the first 30 days after the date of the initial order every 30 days thereafter until the owner relinquishes the animal or animals or until final disposition of the animal or animals. If the required funds are not deposited within five days of the original order setting the amount of the funds, or within five days after the expiration of each applicable subsequent 30-day period, then the animal or animals shall be forfeited to the petitioning agency by operation of law and may, with the consent of any prosecutor prosecuting charges against the owner regarding the owner's animal or animals, be disposed pursuant to this Code.
(3)
At any time before the final disposition of the animal or animals, the owner may relinquish ownership of the animal or animals. All costs of impoundment and care for the animal or animals from the date of impoundment to the date of the relinquishment shall be paid by the owner unless the owner meets the requirements set forth in paragraph (5) of this subsection.
(4)
In circumstances where only one animal was impounded, and the owner of the animal is, at the initial hearing or at an adjustment hearing, found to be indigent as deemed by the court, the court, in its discretion, may reduce or waive the requirement for the owner to pay costs of impoundment and care pursuant to this Code.
(5)
The court may correct, alter, or otherwise adjust the owner's 30-day obligation of payment upon a motion made by the owner or petitioning agency at least five days before the expiration date of the then current 30-day payment period. The hearing shall be held within ten days of service of the motion on the opposite party, and any adjustment to the 30-day payment amount shall become effective five days after the court orders, or refuses to order, an adjustment.
(6)
Upon the payment of funds into the court registry in accordance with this Code, the petitioning agency may immediately begin to draw from those funds for payment of the actual costs incurred by the petitioning agency in keeping and caring for the animal or animals from the date of impoundment to the date of the final disposition of the underlying criminal action regarding the owner and the animal or animals.
(7)
Upon final disposition of the animal or animals, remaining funds deposited with the clerk of the court shall be refunded to the owner.
(8)
If the disposition is found as a guilty verdict and the animal is awarded to the city, the court may allow all remaining funds to be used for the continuing care of the animal and in the benefit of the shelter's rescue program.
(Ord. No. 2021-06-11 , § III, 8-10-2021)
Sec. 6-18. - Keeping domestic animals and livestock under control.
(a)
Except as outlined in paragraph (b) below, an owner of a domestic animal or livestock must ensure that such animal is not tethered, whether by chain, rope, tie, leash, or other fastener, whether inside a structure or a vehicle or outdoors, to anything, including, but not limited to, any dog house, tree, fence, other animal, vehicle, runner, railing, house, or furniture.
(b)
A domestic animal or livestock may only be tethered if such tethering is on a temporary basis while the animal is attended by its owner, and if the tether is attached to a properly-fitted harness or collar.
(c)
The following are not permitted at any time when tethering an animal, regardless of whether the animal is attended by its owner or not:
(1)
Use of a choke, prong, martingale, or similar collar;
(2)
Wrapping the tether directly around the animal's neck;
(3)
Use of a tether that, including all collars, harnesses, weights, locks, and other tethering accessories that have their weight borne by the animal, weighs more than five percent of the body weight of the animal;
(4)
Use of a tether that restricts the animal's range of movement to less than the greater of five feet or one-and-one-half times the length of the animal's body, whether such restriction is due to:
a.
The length of the tether;
b.
The height at which the tether is attached to a thing;
c.
Tangling, wrapping, or other shortening of the useful length of the tether;
d.
Obstacles; or
e.
Other circumstances reducing the animal's range of movement.
(5)
Confinement in an outside compartment of a running vehicle; or
(6)
Confinement in an inside compartment of a running vehicle when the tether is attached to the animal's collar and any part of the vehicle.
(Ord. No. 2021-06-11 , § IV, 8-10-2021)
