ARTICLE II. - CITY COUNCIL RESPONSIBILITIES AND FUNCTIONS

Sec. 4-31. - Powers and duties.
The city council is hereby vested with the following duties and powers:
(1)
Initial applications. To screen, verify, investigate, and review all initial applications for licenses for the sale of liquor, wine, and malt beverages, at wholesale and retail, by the package and by the drink.
a.
To grant or deny licenses to sell malt beverages by the package at wholesale or retail, wine by the package at wholesale or retail, liquor by the package at wholesale or retail, and for the sale of liquor, wine, and malt beverages, by the drink.
b.
To grant or deny licenses as provided for in the state acts for distilleries (O.C.G.A. § 3-4-24 et seq.), breweries (O.C.G.A. § 3-5-24 et seq.), brewpubs (O.C.G.A. § 3-5-36), and farm wineries, including farm wineries with tasting rooms (O.C.G.A. § 3-6-21.1 et seq.).
(2)
Renewals. To investigate and hear reports and charges constituting probable cause not to renew licenses for the sale of liquor, wine, and/or malt beverages, at wholesale and retail, by the package and by the drink.
a.
To grant or to deny renewals of licenses for the sale of liquor by the package and for the sale of liquor, wine and/or malt beverages by the drink.
b.
To grant or deny renewals of licenses to sell malt beverages and/or wine by the package at wholesale or retail.
(3)
Suspension, revocation; probation; monetary sanction. To investigate and hear reports and charges constituting probable cause to suspend or revoke licenses for the sale of liquor, wine and/or malt beverages, at wholesale and retail, by the package and by the drink, or to impose monetary sanctions.
(4)
Appeals. To hear appeals on the seizure of a license by the chief of police, the assistant chief of police, or a duly authorized officer or license inspector under sections 4-96, 4-163, 4-207, and 4-270, and to affirm, reverse, or modify the actions of the suspending officer.
(5)
Entertainment. To receive reports on, to investigate and to approve and disapprove, entertainment at pouring outlets, all as provided in section 4-240, and to take or recommend such action as is appropriate in the case of such disapproval.
(6)
Employees. To receive reports on, to investigate and to approve or disapprove employees of retail outlets for the sale of alcoholic beverages by the package or by the drink, all as provided in section 4-32, and to take such action as is appropriate in the case of such disapproval.
(7)
Ordinances and policies. To make modifications to the ordinances and policies of the city pertaining to the regulation, control and taxing of liquor, wine, and malt beverages.
(8)
Complaints, etc. To hear complaints, suggestions and recommendations from the police department, state officials, alcoholic beverage dealers and the public at large as to the operation of liquor, wine, and malt beverage outlets within the city.
(9)
Rules and regulations. To promulgate rules and regulations governing procedures before it.
(10)
Consumption of alcoholic beverages on public property. To grant or deny temporary permits to allow the consumption of alcoholic beverages on public property not otherwise exempted, to place conditions on such temporary consumption permits, and to promulgate guidelines for the application, approval and use of such temporary consumption permits.
(Ord. of 6-25-2019, § 1(4-31))
Sec. 4-32. - Wearing of alcohol sales permits; application to city council; fingerprinting, photographing and other investigation by the city clerk; employment of person without card; expiration on employee's birthday.
(a)
Any person who works in a retail outlet for the sale of liquor by the package or whose principal responsibility is the service of food or beverage in an alcohol pouring outlet, whether or not such person is an employee of such retail outlet or pouring outlet, shall apply to the city clerk for an alcohol sales permit, which shall expire on the person's birthday and be renewable on or before that time on a year-to-year basis. The fee for the card shall be set forth in the fee schedule of the city as kept and maintained by the city clerk.
(b)
While on duty serving or selling alcohol of any type, every person required to hold an alcohol sales permit under subsection (a) of this section whether or not an employee of the outlet, shall have his alcohol sales permit conspicuously displayed on his person at all times.
(c)
Applicants for an alcohol sales permit shall make written application to the city clerk and shall make themselves available for photographing, fingerprinting and such other investigating as may be required by the city clerk.
(d)
The city clerk shall review the application and investigate permit applicants. The city clerk shall issue and renew an alcohol sales permit to applicants who complete the necessary applications and pay the applicable fees, unless the applicant:
(1)
Has been convicted of or pled guilty to any state or federal felony offense involving violence within the preceding ten years of the application date;
(2)
Has been convicted of or pled guilty to any state or federal felony offense within the preceding three years;
(3)
Has been convicted of or pled guilty to any state or federal misdemeanor offense involving forgery, identity theft, credit card fraud or theft within the preceding three years;
(4)
Has been convicted or pled guilty to two or more offenses of selling, serving or providing alcohol to a minor within a 12-month period, provided that the most recent conviction or guilty plea occurred within the preceding 12 months; or
(5)
Is ineligible to serve or sell alcohol under the laws of the state.
(e)
No alcohol licensee holder under the provisions of this chapter shall hire any person for, nor permit any person to work or assist in, sales at an alcohol pouring outlet or a retail outlet for the sale of liquor by the package, until such person has procured an alcohol sales permit as prescribed in this section.
(f)
The city clerk may provisionally grant an alcohol sales permit to an applicant, pending investigation and report. Where the report, when received, demonstrates that the applicant fails to meet the requirements of this section, the department shall revoke the permit and demand its return.
(g)
Adjudications of alleged violations of this section shall be held in municipal court.
(h)
Any holder of an alcohol sales permit found guilty of a violation of this chapter or of any state law concerning the sale of alcohol or the furnishing of alcohol to minors shall have, in addition to any other punishment allowed by law, his permit suspended for a period of 30 days. The municipal court judge may, in his discretion, elect to suspend all but ten of the suspension days, if the facts and circumstances warrant such reduction. Upon being found guilty of a second violation of this chapter or of any state law concerning the sale of alcohol or the furnishing of alcohol to minors, within a 12-month period, the permit holder shall have, in addition to any other punishment allowed by law, his permit suspended for a period of 12 months. The municipal court judge may, in his discretion, elect to suspend all but two months of the suspension days, if the facts and circumstances warrant such reduction. During any period of suspension, the permit holder shall surrender such permit to the city clerk.
(i)
It shall be unlawful for an employee whose alcohol sales permit has been revoked, and upon whom demand for surrender such permit has been made, to refuse to so surrender, or to alter, conceal, deface or destroy the permit.
(j)
An applicant denied an alcohol sales permit on the basis of subsection (d)(5) of this section may appeal to the city council for a hardship variance. Upon appeal, the city council shall conduct a hearing and may reduce the period of time within which an applicant must wait to receive an alcohol sales permit if the applicant shows good cause why granting said permit would not endanger public health, safety or welfare, based on the facts and circumstances of each individual application.
(k)
For the purposes of subsections (d)(5) and (h) of this section, a plea of nolo contendere shall be treated as a conviction.
(Ord. of 6-25-2019, § 1(4-31))
Sec. 4-33. - Prohibition of certain types of entertainment, attire and conduct.
(a)
Findings; public purpose. Based on the experience of other urban counties and municipalities, including, but not limited to, Atlanta and Fulton County, Georgia; DeKalb County, Georgia; Richmond County, Georgia; Amarillo, Texas; Austin, Texas; Garden Grove, California; Houston, Texas; Renton, Washington; Phoenix, Arizona; Indianapolis, Indiana; St. Paul, Minnesota; Tucson, Arizona; Augusta, Georgia; LaGrange, Georgia; Dalton and Whitfield County, Georgia; Carrollton, Georgia; Smyrna, Georgia; and Ft. Lauderdale and Palm Beach, Florida, which experiences the city believes are relevant to the problems faced by the city, the city council takes note of the notorious and self-evident conditions attendant to the commercial exploitation of human sexuality, which do not vary greatly among generally comparable communities within our country. Moreover, it is the findings of the council that public nudity (either partial or total) under certain circumstances, particularly circumstances related to the sale and consumption of alcoholic beverages, begets criminal behavior and tends to create undesirable community conditions. Among the acts of criminal behavior identified with nudity and alcohol are disorderly conduct, prostitution, and drug trafficking and use. Among the undesirable community conditions identified with nudity and alcohol are depression of property values in the surrounding neighborhood, increased expenditure for and allocation of law enforcement personnel to preserve law and order, increased burden on the judicial system as a consequence of the criminal behavior hereinabove-described, and acceleration of community blight by the concentration of such establishments in particular areas. Therefore, the limitation of nude conduct in establishments licensed to sell alcoholic beverages is in the public welfare and it is a matter of governmental interest and concern to prevent the occurrence of criminal behavior and undesirable community conditions normally associated with establishments which serve alcohol and also allow and/or encourage nudity. To that end, the ordinance from which this section is derived is hereby adopted.
(b)
Enactment. The following types of entertainment, attire and conduct are prohibited upon any premises licensed to sell, serve or disperse alcohol beverages:
(1)
The employment or use of any person, in any capacity, in the sale or service of alcohol beverages while such person is unclothed or in such attire, costume or clothing, as to expose to view any portion of the female breast below the top of the areola or any portion of the male or female pubic hair, anus, cleft or the buttocks, vulva and genitals.
(2)
Live entertainment where any person appears in the manner described in subsection (b)(1) of this section or where such persons perform acts of or acts which simulate any of the following:
a.
Sexual intercourse, masturbation, sodomy, bestiality, oral copulation, flagellation or any sexual act which is prohibited by law.
b.
The touching, caressing or fondling of the breasts, buttocks, anus or genitals.
c.
The displaying of the male or female pubic hair, anus, vulva or genitals.
(3)
The holding, promotion, sponsoring or allowance of any contest, promotion, special night, event or any other activity where patrons of the licensed establishment are encouraged or allowed to engage in any of the conduct described in subsections (b)(1) and (2) of this section.
(c)
Severability. It is hereby declared to be the intention of the city council that the paragraphs, sentences, clauses and phrases of this section are severable, and if any phrase, clause, sentence, or paragraph hereof shall be declared unconstitutional by the valid judgment or decree of any court of competent jurisdiction, such unconstitutionality shall not affect any of the remaining phrases, clauses, sentences, or paragraphs of this section, since the same would have been enacted by the city council without the incorporation herein of any such unconstitutional phrase, clause, sentence, or paragraph.
(Ord. of 6-25-2019, § 1(4-33))
Secs. 4-34—4-54. - Reserved.
