ARTICLE II. - DEFINITIONS

Section 200. - Interpretations.
Unless otherwise expressly stated, the following words and phrases shall be construed throughout this ordinance to have the meanings indicated in this article. The present tense includes the future; the singular number includes the plural, and the plural the singular; the word "building" includes the word "structure" and shall be construed as if followed by the words "or part thereof"; the word "occupy" includes the words "designed or intended to be occupied"; the word "use" includes the words "arranged, designed or intended to be used" and the word "shall" is always intended to be mandatory when capable of such interpretation.
Section 201. - Definition of terms.
1.
Accessory building. A building subordinate to the principal building on the lot and used for purposes customarily incidental to those of the principal building.
2.
Accessory use. A use subordinate to the principal use of land or a building or other structure on a lot and customarily incidental thereto.
3.
Agriculture. The cultivating of the soil and the raising and harvesting of the products of the soil, including, but not by way of limitation, nursery, horticulture, forestry and animal husbandry.
4.
Alteration. An alteration, as applied to a building, is any change or rearrangement in the structural parts, or any enlargements, whether by extending on any side or by increasing in height or adapting in any way to a different use, or moving from one location or position to another, or in the case of nonconforming use, any structural change which would prolong the life of such use.
5.
Bar. A commercial establishment whose primary activity is the sale of alcoholic beverages to be consumed on the premises and meets the definition of a bar contained in Chapter 6 of the Statesboro Code of Ordinances.
6.
Building. Any structure having enclosing walls and roof, permanently located on the land.
7.
Building, principal. A building in which is conducted the principal use of the lot on which it is situated.
8.
Building area. The aggregate of the maximum horizontal cross section areas of all buildings on a lot above the ground level, measured at the greatest outside dimensions, excluding cornices, caves, gutters or chimneys projecting not more than 18 inches, bay windows not extending through more than one story and not projecting more than five feet, one-story open porches projecting not more than ten feet, porte-cochere or carport open on three sides and not more than 14 feet high and 20 feet in length, steps and balconies.
9.
Building line. The line which establishes the minimum depth of front yard for the particular district as measured from the street line.
10.
Dwelling. A building designed for and occupied exclusively for residential purposes, including hotel, roominghouse, tourist home, institutional home, residential club, motor court and the like.
a.
Single-family dwelling. A building designed for and occupied exclusively as a dwelling for one family.
b.
Townhouse dwelling. A building designed for and occupied exclusively for dwelling purposes by three or more families living independent of one another and where each dwelling unit is attached to another unit and separated from it vertically by a common side wall, and where no dwelling unit is located above or below another dwelling unit.
c.
Two-family dwelling. A building designed for and occupied exclusively as a dwelling for two families.
d.
Multiple dwelling. A building, but not a single-family dwelling or a two-family dwelling, or townhouse dwelling, designed for and occupied exclusively for dwelling purposes by three or more families living independently of one another, but customarily called an apartment house.
11.
Dwelling unit. A building or portion thereof providing complete housekeeping facilities for one family.
a.
Permanent dwelling unit. A building or portion thereof providing complete housekeeping facilities for one family for yearround use.
b.
Temporary dwelling unit. A building or portion thereof providing complete or partial housekeeping facilities for one family for seasonal or summer use. Such dwelling units may not be occupied more than five months out of any 12.
12.
Family. One or more persons occupying a single dwelling unit, provided the dwelling unit is located in R-6, R-8, R-10, R-15, R-20, R-30, and [or] R-40 [district] and provided that unless all members are related by blood, marriage or adoption no such family shall contain over three persons. In addition, a related family may have up to two unrelated individuals living with them. The term "family" does not include any organization or institutional group.
All uses which are rendered in violation of this Code by passage of this amendment and which are pursuant to leases, rental agreements or other contracts in effect on or before November 1, 1993 may continue as a nonconforming use until the natural and lawful termination of the existing legal relationship; provided, however, that in no event shall a nonconforming use which is pursuant to a lease, rental agreement or other contract, and which is rendered in violation of the Code by enactment of this ordinance, continue later than September 1, 1994.
13.
Future land use plan. Maps, charts, [and] descriptive matter officially adopted by the city council showing recommendations for the most appropriate use of land and for the most desirable density of population.
14.
Garage.
a.
Garage, private. An accessory building or part of a principal building used for the storage of motor vehicles owned and used by the owner or tenant of the premises, and for the storage of not more than two vehicles owned and used by persons other than the owner or tenant of.the premises. Not more than two commercial vehicles or trucks may be stored in a private garage.
b.
Garage, public. A building, other than a private or storage garage, one or more stories in height, used solely for the commercial storage, service or repair of motor vehicles.
c.
Garage, storage. A building, not a private or public garage, one story in height, used solely for the storage of motor vehicles (other than trucks), but not for the sale, service or repair thereof nor for the sale of fuel, accessories or supplies.
15.
Gasoline service station. Any area of land, including structures thereon, or any building or part thereof, that is used for the sale of gasoline or other motor vehicle fuel or accessories, and which may or may not include facilities for lubricating, washing or otherwise servicing motor vehicles but which shall not include painting or body and fender repairs.
16.
Height of building. A building's vertical measurement from the mean level of the ground surrounding the building to a point midway between the highest and lowest points on the roof.
17.
Home occupation. An occupation for gain or support conducted only by members of a family residing on the premises and conducted entirely within the dwelling, providing that no article is sold or offered for sale except such as may be produced by members of the immediate family residing on the premises.
18.
Hotel. A building used for the purpose of furnishing for compensation more or less temporary lodging to the public, with or without meals, and having lodging accommodations for ten or more persons.
19.
Junkyard. A lot, land or structure, or part thereof, used primarily for the collection, storage and sale of wastepaper, rags, scrap metal or discarded material, or for the collection, dismantling, storage and salvaging of machinery or vehicles not in running condition, and for the sale of parts thereof.
20.
Loading space. A space, accessible from a street or way, in a building or a lot, for the temporary use of vehicles, while loading or unloading merchandise or materials.
21.
Lot. A parcel of land which is occupied, or is to be occupied, by one principal building or other structure or use, together with any accessory buildings or structures or uses customarily incidental to such principal building or other structure or use, and any such open spaces as are arranged or designed to be used in connection with such principal buildings or other structures or use, such open spaces and the area and dimensions of such lot being not less than the minimum required by this ordinance.
22.
Lot area. The total horizontal area of the lot lying within the lot lines, provided that no area of land lying within any street line shall be deemed a portion of any lot area. The area of any lot abutting a street shall be measured to the street line only.
23.
Lot line. A property boundary line of any lot held in single or joint ownership, except that in the case of any lot abutting a street, the lot line for such portion of the lot as abuts the street shall be deemed to be the same as the street line and shall not be the centerline of the street, or any other line within the street line even though such may be the property boundary line.
24.
Motor court or motel. A building and/or a group of two or more detached or semidetached buildings containing rooms or apartments having separate ground floor entrances provided directly or closely in connection with automobile parking or storage space serving such rooms or apartments, which building or group of buildings is designed, intended or used principally for the providing of sleeping accommodations for automobile travelers and is suitable for occupancy at all seasons of the year.
25.
Mobile home. A manufactured, transportable, single-family dwelling unit, suitable for yearround occupancy and containing water supply, waste disposal and electric conveniences designed for attachments to outside systems. Its design allows [the] mobile home to be mounted on wheels and used as a conveyance on highways and streets.
26.
Nonconforming. A building or other structure, use or lot, which by reason of design, size or use, does not conform with the requirements of the district, or districts, in which it is located.
27.
Parking space. A reasonably level space, available for the parking of one motor vehicle, not less than ten feet wide and having an area of not less than 190 square feet exclusive of passageways or other means of circulation or access.
28.
Performance standards. Measures and standards by which the suitability of a proposed use can be measured by the extent of its external effect.
29.
Public utilities facilities. A building or structure and its equipment used for the transmission and exchange of telephone, radio-telephone, gas, power, sewer and water facilities, provided, however that in a residential district these shall not include public business facilities, storage of materials, truck or repair facilities or housing of repair crews.
30.
Restaurant. A commercial establishment where food and beverages are prepared and served for consumption on or off the premises and where food sales constitute a minimum of 50 percent of the gross sales receipts for food and beverages.
31.
Roominghouse. (See Tourist home.) A dwelling, not a single-family or two-family dwelling, apartment house or hotel, providing lodging, with or without meals, and having lodging accommodations for less than ten guests.
32.
Screen enclosure. A structure characterized by a network of metal or wood members with open mesh panels for both walls and roof.
33.
Shopping center. A group of businesses within one or more buildings owned, operated, managed, or otherwise identified as a cohesive development with shared parking and containing a variety of retail, service, and/or office uses.
34.
Sign. Any outdoor sign, light, display, device, figure painting, drawing, message, placard, poster, billboard, or other thing which is designed, intended or used to advertise or information contents of which are visible to the public. See article XV.
35.
Street. That portion of a public right-of-way or private way which is primarily devoted to vehicular use. A street normally provides primary access to abutting property. Streets are further classified as follows:
a.
Major arterial street. A street designated by the city's engineering department that is used primarily for serving large volumes of comparatively high speed traffic and to which access is controlled.
b.
Minor arterial street. A street, which is designated by the city's engineering department, used primarily for serving large volumes of traffic, but smaller volumes that [than] are normally served by major arterial streets. Speed is comparatively high.
c.
Collector street. A street designated by the city's engineering department, or a logical geographic extension thereof as determined by the traffic engineer. A collector street carries traffic from local streets to the major and minor arterial streets. Traffic volumes are substantial but smaller than normally served for minor arterial streets.
d.
Local street. A street which is primarily for access to abutting properties. It carries low traffic volumes.
36.
Street line. The dividing line between a lot and the outside boundary or ultimate right-of-way line of a public street, road or highway legally opened or officially plotted or between a lot and a privately owned street, road or way over which the owners or tenants of two or more lots each held in single and separate ownership have the right-of-way.
37.
Structure. Any form or arrangement of building material involving the necessity of providing proper support, bracing, tying, anchoring or other protection against the forces of the elements.
38.
Swimming pool. Any pool, or open tank located either above or below the existing finished grade of a site, not located within a completely enclosed building, and exceeding 150 square feet in surface area and two feet in depth, designed, used or intended to be used for swimming or bathing purposes. A swimming pool does not include reflecting pools, fish ponds, or other types of pools, located and designed so as not to create a hazard or to be used for swimming or wading.
39.
Tavern. A commercial establishment whose primary activity is the sale of alcoholic beverages to be consumed on the premises, but also serves prepared food as a secondary activity and meets the definition of a tavern contained in Chapter 6 of the Statesboro Code of Ordinances.
40.
Tourist home. A dwelling in which sleeping accommodations for less than ten persons are provided for compensation.
41.
Trailer park. Any land used or designated to be used as parking space for more than one house trailer, also known as mobile home park.
42.
Trailer. An enclosure used for living, sleeping, business or storage purposes having no foundation other than wheels, blocks, jacks, skids or skirtings and which has been or can be equipped with wheels or other devices for transporting the enclosure from place to place.
43.
Variance. Permission or approval granted by the board of appeals constituting a modification or a deviation from the exact provisions of this ordinance as applied to the use of a specific piece of property or portion of the same.
44.
Yard. An open, unoccupied space on the same lot with a building or other structure or use, open and unobstructed from the ground to the sky, except for public utility lines or facilities.
a.
Front yard. A yard extending the full width of the lot along the front street line as defined and extending in depth from the front street line to the nearest point of any structure on the lot.
b.
Rear yard. A yard extending the full width of the lot along the rear lot line and extending in depth from the rear lot line to the nearest point of any structure on the lot.
c.
Side yard. A yard extending the full depth of the lot along a side lot line and extending in width from such side lot line to the nearest point of any structure on the lot.
45.
Outparcel. Individual retail sites in a shopping center. The square footage of outparcels must be at least 20,000 square feet.
(Ord. of 1-16-90; Ord. of 12-7-93; Amd. of 1-19-99(1); Amd. of 1-19-99(2); Amd. of 12-4-01(2); Amd. of 12-4-01(3); Amd. of 1-15-02(1); Ord. No. 2007-02, §§ 1.a—d, 1-17-07; Ord. No. 2008-10, §§ 1.a), 1.b), 12-16-08; Ord. No. 2010-20, § 1.a), 10-19-10; Ord. No. 2022-03, Exh. A, § 1, 8-2-22)
