ARTICLE I. - IN GENERAL

Sec. 18-1. - Location of junkyards.
No person shall be permitted to carry on the business of buying or dealing in junk in the city except in an enclosed building or structure having four walls and no open sides within the business district of the city or on or adjacent to one of the railroads. In no case shall such business be carried on nearer than 300 yards to a residence.
(Code 1987, § 14-13)
Sec. 18-2. - Peddlers, solicitors, etc., entering on private property without invitation.
(a)
Prohibited. The practice of going in and upon private residences, business establishments or offices in the city by solicitors, peddlers, hawkers, itinerant merchants and transient vendors of merchandise, not having been requested or invited to do so by the owner or occupant of such private residences, business establishments or offices, for the purpose of soliciting orders for the sale of goods, wares or merchandise or hawking goods, wares or merchandise, is hereby declared to be a nuisance, and prohibited.
(b)
Exceptions. The provisions of this section shall not apply to persons employed by or representing any established merchant, firm, business or corporation located in and regularly doing business in the city, or to farmers selling any food items raised by them or produced on their farms, or to anyone duly licensed to do business in the city.
(c)
Application, permit and fee. Peddlers or street vendors must make application and obtain a permit from the city prior to engaging in sales or soliciting. The application fee and the per diem fee shall be in the amount set by the mayor and city council of the city.
(d)
Fee waived for churches or religious organizations. Churches or religious organizations and those holding 501(c)(3) exemption under the Internal Revenue Code are exempt from paying the per diem for the permit but must make application.
(Code 1987, § 14-15; Amd. of 11-20-01)
Sec. 18-3. - Hours for pool and billiard rooms.
(a)
No business or commercial establishment holding a license which allows for the operation of pool and/or billiard tables, arcade, pinballs, video arcade or other similar self-contained game or gaming equipment shall remain open to the public between the hours of 1:00 a.m. and 6:00 a.m.
(b)
In the event a business or commercial establishment which holds a license for the operation of pool and/or billiard tables, arcade, pinballs, video arcade or other similar self-contained game or gaming equipment also holds any other business license(s) which allow for the operation of businesses or activities other than described herein during the hours prescribed in subsection (a) of this section, then the business may continue to operate the activities so allowed if the portions of the business or establishment containing pool and/or billiard tables, arcade, pinballs, video arcade or other similar self-contained game or game equipment is closed to public access or the equipment and devices described herein are rendered inoperative.
(Code 1987, § 16-14; Ord. of 5-3-94; Ord. of 11-2-94(1))
Sec. 18-4. - Professional bondsmen.
(a)
In order for a person to act as a professional bondsman and be recognized to write bonds for the city for bailable offenses, the bondsman must first have a certificate of authority issued by the city. In order to obtain a certificate, the following requirements must be met:
(1)
The applicant must meet the criteria for qualifying as a professional bondsman set by the state contained in O.C.G.A. § 17-6-50.
(2)
The city clerk shall make, or cause to be made, an investigation of the applicant to determine:
a.
The character and police record of the applicant;
b.
The financial ability of the applicant to operate a bondsman.
(3)
The applicant shall pay the application fee, regulatory fee and occupational tax required by the city's occupational tax ordinance.
(4)
The applicant shall not have failed to meet his, her, or its, if a corporation, bonding obligations in Bulloch or any other county.
(5)
The applicant for a certificate to write bonds must place on deposit in an escrow account in an FDIC-approved banking or financial institution located in Bulloch County, no less than $2,500.00 cash or cash equivalent. The escrow account will be set up so that the funds contained therein will be made immediately payable to the depository or the city clerk, or his or her successors or assigns, for any unsatisfied Fi. Fa. which will be due and payable to the city clerk, or his or her authorized agents, 120 days subsequent to the entry of the judgment on the general execution docket of the Superior Court of Bulloch County. The city clerk, or his or her successors or assigns, shall be the sole signatory on the escrow account and such funds shall not be available for the general use of the applicant. However, at the applicant's option, the funds may be placed in an interest-bearing account with the interest only being payable to the applicant. Upon request for renewal of a certificate of authority to write bonds, the applicant shall present proof of the existence and validity of the escrow account. After a period of 180 days following termination of the term of the certificate and/or failure to renew, any funds remaining in the escrow account shall be released to the applicant. In the event any funds are withdrawn from the account by the city under the terms stated herein, the certificate holder shall restore the account balance to $2,500.00 cash within 30 days of the withdrawal or the certificate shall be automatically revoked.
(b)
Upon issuance of a certificate, the applicant shall receive an identification card. No bond shall be issued by the city without presentment of the identification card at the time of application.
(c)
All applicants or requesting parties for renewal will be required to remain in good standing with respect to all federal, state and local laws. A violation of such laws may, upon a hearing by the mayor and city council, result in revocation or suspension of the applicant's certificate.
(d)
Pursuant to O.C.G.A. § 17-6-30, certificate holders shall not charge or receive more than ten percent of the principal amount of the bonds as compensation from defendants or anyone acting for defendants. Retention of and sale of personal property for any compensation in an amount exceeding that allowed by O.C.G.A. § 17-6-30, or any amendments hereinafter, is prohibited.
(e)
Nothing in this section shall interfere with the ability of an individual to post a cash bond or a property bond based on unencumbered property which provides surety for the full amount of bond required.
(Ord. of 5-16-95)
Secs. 18-5—18-30. - Reserved.
