Subpart B - RELATED LAWS[1]
Footnotes:
--- (1) ---
Editor's note— Printed herein are local constitutional amendments and state laws of local application. Amendments to the original act are indicated by parenthetical history notes following amended provisions. The absence of a history note indicates that the provision remains unchanged from the original act. Obvious misspellings have been corrected without notation. For stylistic purposes, a uniform system of headings, catchlines and citations to state statutes has been used. Additions made for clarity are indicated by brackets.

CHAPTER 1. - DOWNTOWN STATESBORO DEVELOPMENT AUTHORITY[2]
An Act
To create the Downtown Statesboro Development Authority, as authorized by an amendment to the Constitution, which appears at Ga. Laws 1979, p. 1841; to provide for the membership of the authority; to provide for a downtown development district; to provide the powers and duties of the authority; to provide for revenue bonds and obligations of the authority; to provide for all matters relative to the foregoing; to repeal conflicting laws; and for other purposes.
BE IT ENACTED BY THE GENERAL ASSEMBLY OF GEORGIA:

Footnotes:
--- (2) ---
Editor's note— The provisions creating the Downtown Statesboro Development Authority became effective pursuant to an amendment to the state constitution as set forth in 1979 Ga. Laws, page 1841. It was continued in full force and effect pursuant to 1986 Ga. Laws, page 4655. Section numbers used in the 1987 Code have been retained for consistency.

Sec. 2-96. - Creation.
Pursuant to an amendment to the Constitution, which amendment appears at Ga. Laws 1979, p. 1841, there is hereby created in and for the City of Statesboro the Downtown Statesboro Development Authority, hereinafter referred to as the authority.
Sec. 2-97. - Members.
(a)
The authority will be composed of nine members who shall be selected as provided herein. The members of the authority serving on the effective date of this Act shall continue to serve out the term for which they were elected. Upon the expiration of the terms of the members serving on the effective date of this Act, successors shall be appointed to the authority as provided herein. Eight members shall be appointed by the members of the authority as their terms expire. Those eight members of the authority shall represent either the owners of real property and shall be known as the real property owner group or the owners of business establishments whose principal place of business is located in the downtown Statesboro district and who shall be a person or persons actually licensed and operating a business in the district and who shall be known as the business operator group. The ninth member shall be appointed by the governing authority of the City of Statesboro. Members of the authority shall serve two year terms of office except for the member appointed by the governing authority of the City of Statesboro who shall serve a one year term of office or until replaced by action of the governing authority. All action by the authority shall be by a majority vote of the members of the authority. In the appointment of members of the authority, including the real property owner group and the business operator group, one vote shall be given to each member of the authority.
(b)
Terms of office of all members of the authority except the member appointed by the governing authority of the City of Statesboro shall begin and terminate on March 1 of the respective years. Board members are required to attend all monthly board meetings. If a board member is absent from three consecutive monthly meetings, the board member, after official notification by the board and approval by the majority of the remaining board members, shall be asked to resign.
(c)
In the event that 33⅓ percent of the total number of the members of either the real property owner group or the business operator group shall petition the authority, the authority shall call a caucus of the group for the purpose of recalling any member of the authority named to represent that group. At such a caucus, if a majority of such group present votes to recall any such member of the authority, such group shall appoint a successor to such recalled member to serve out the remainder of the term formerly occupied by the recalled member. No petition for the recall of any single member of the authority shall be filed within a 12 month period subsequent to the filing of any previous petition for the recall of such member.
(d)
Naturally occurring vacancies brought about by resignation or death shall be determined by a majority of the members of the authority that will, upon such a determination of a vacancy, appoint a new member. The newly appointed member shall serve out the term of office formerly occupied by the vacating member.
(e)
All persons required to give notice of meeting shall exercise reasonable care so that as nearly as practicable all persons entitled to notice of such meeting shall be appraised of such times and places.
(Act No. 127, § 1, 4-13-01)
Sec. 2-98. - District.
There is hereby created within the City of Statesboro the Downtown Statesboro Development Authority District which shall be composed of all that territory embraced within the following description:
All those certain tracts or parcels of land lying and being in the 1209th G.M. District of Bulloch County, Georgia and in the City of Statesboro, and more particularly described as follows: Beginning at the intersection of U.S. Highway 80 and North College Street and running thence south on North College Street to West Main Street; running thence west on West Main Street to Institute Street; running south on Institute Street to its intersection with West Grady Street; running thence east on West Grady Street to its intersection with South College Street; running thence south on South College Street to its intersection with Rackley Street; running thence across South Walnut street to South Main Street; running thence along South Main Street to its intersection with Tillman Road; running thence northerly on Tillman Road to its intersection with Georgia Highway No. 67; running thence north on Zetterower Avenue to a point on South Zetterower Avenue which is North of Woodrow Avenue intersection; running thence northerly to U.S. Highway 80; running thence westerly on U.S. Highway 80 to the point of beginning at the intersection of U. S. Highway 80 and North College Street.
The above area encompassed shall also allow real property owners within 200 feet of the outer boundary with property contiguous to the district to become a part of the territory emcompassed by the Downtown Statesboro Development Authority District, provided such business or property are not located more than 200 feet from the outer boundary as described above.
(Act. No. 299, § 3, 6-3-03)
Sec. 2-99. - Annexation.
(a)
The authority may annex to the downtown district, with unanimous consent of property owners involved, any property which has a common boundary with the downtown district. Such power to annex additional property may only be exercised by the authority upon the approval of the mayor and council of the City of Statesboro.
(b)
The authority may, upon petition of 70 percent of the real property owners located within a territory, annex that territory into the downtown Statesboro district. Such power to annex may only be exercised with the approval of the mayor and council of the City of Statesboro.
Sec. 2-100. - Powers.
The authority shall have the power:
(a)
To buy, acquire, develop, improve, own, operate, maintain, sell, lease, and mortgage land, buildings, and property of all kinds and character, including but not limited to machinery, apparatus, equipment, and utilities useful or desirable in connection therewith [in] the downtown Statesboro district;
(b)
To receive and administer gifts, grants, and donations and to administer trusts and to enter into trust indentures;
(c)
To grant, loan, and lease any of its funds and property to private persons and corporations agreeing to make capital improvements or capital acquisitions to real property for any commercial or business enterprise or establishment within the downtown Statesboro district, which in the judgment of the governing body of the authority will be of benefit to the economic improvement and development of said district or area;
(d)
To grant, loan, and lease any of its funds and property to private persons and corporations to refinance capital improvements, renovations, or capital acquisitions which have already been made to real property for any commercial or business enterprise or establishment within the downtown Statesboro district, which in the judgment of the governing body of the authority has been of benefit to the economic improvement and development of said district or area;
(e)
To borrow money and issue notes, obligation, and revenue bonds therefor and to sell, convey, mortgage, pledge and assign any and all of its funds, property, and income as security for the payment thereof and interest thereon and to secure the repayment of such money so borrowed by the terms of the resolution authorizing such financing and to enter into a trust indenture relative thereto;
(f)
To appoint and employ officers, agents, and employees and to provide for their compensation in order to effectuate the purposes of this act;
(g)
To encourage and promote the economic development and rehabilitation of the downtown Statesboro district and to make long range plans therefor in cooperation with the planned development of the Downtown Statesboro Development Authority, City of Statesboro, and Bulloch County;
(h)
To accumulate its funds from whatever sources from year to year and to invest and reinvest such funds;
(i)
To contract and designate its officers to sign and act for the authority pertaining to the rights, powers, and privileges herein conferred;
(j)
To do any and all acts and things necessary, convenient, or desirable to accomplish the purpose of this act and the rights, powers, and privileges herein conferred;
(k)
To adopt such bylaws governing the conduct of the affairs of the authority and to appoint such officers as the authority shall deem necessary;
(l)
To exercise all of the powers vested in the authority of [by] article IX, section VII, paragraph I of the Constitution, as amended, to include the power to bring suit and all other necessary and ancillary powers necessary to carry out the provisions of said paragraph as it pertains to the Downtown Statesboro Development Authority; and
(m)
The authority may exercise the power of eminent domain as given to such authority by operation of law and as provided by the Constitution, but only with the express prior consent and approval of the mayor and council of the City of Statesboro.
(Act No. 127, § 2, 4-13-01)
Sec. 2-101. - Bonds [not to constitute debt of city].
The revenue bonds or obligations herein authorized to be issued shall not be deemed to constitute a debt of the City of Statesboro within the meaning of article IX, section VII, paragraph I of the Constitution nor place a pledge of the faith and credit of said city nor shall the city be subject to any pecuniary liability thereon. The revenue bonds shall not be payable from, nor a charge upon, any funds of the city.
Sec. 2-102. - Bonds [generally].
The authority is hereby authorized to issue revenue bonds or obligations from time to time to carry out the purposes of this act. Revenue bonds or obligations so issued shall be paid solely from the revenues pledged to the payment thereof. Such revenue bonds or obligations shall be authorized by resolution of the governing body of the authority, which may be adopted at a regular or special meeting by a majority vote of the members of said governing body. The governing body of said authority in determining the cost of any undertaking for which revenue bonds or obligations are to be used may include all costs relative to the issuance thereof and, without intending to limit such costs, may include architectural, engineering, inspection, fiscal agents, and legal expenses estimated to accrue from the date of any such bonds through the period of construction and for six months after such construction; and such bonds shall bear such date or dates, shall mature at such time or times, not exceeding 30 years from their respective dates, shall bear interest at such rate or rates, may be in such denominations, may carry such registration privileges, may be subject to redemption, and may contain such terms, covenants, assignments, and conditions as the resolution authorizing the issuance of such bonds may provide. All bonds and interest thereon issued by said authority are hereby declared to be tax exempt for any and all purposes. Such bonds issued by said authority may be validated in the Superior Court of Bulloch County in the same manner as revenue bonds of municipalities are validated as provided under the Revenue Bond Law (Ga. Laws 1937, p. 764), as amended.
Sec. 2-103. - Credit not pledged and debt not created by bond.
Revenue bonds issued under the provisions hereof for the purpose of improvement of facilities for lease to private owners shall not constitute a debt or a pledge of the faith and credit of the State of Georgia, the City of Statesboro, or Bulloch County, or of any other city, county, or other political subdivision of the state, but such bonds shall be payable from the rentals, revenues, earnings, and funds of the authority as provided in the resolution or trust agreement or indenture authorizing the issuance and securing the payment of such bonds; and the issuance of such bonds shall not directly, indirectly, or contingently obligate the state or any city, county, or political subdivision thereof to levy or pledge any form of taxation whatever for the payment thereof. No holder of any bond or receiver of [or] trustee in connection therewith shall have the right to enforce the payment thereof against any property of the state or of any city or county thereof, nor shall any such bond constitute a charge, lien, or encumbrance, legal or equitable, upon any such property. All such bonds shall contain on their face a recital setting forth substantially the foregoing provisions of this section.
Sec. 2-104. - Taxation.
The authority shall not be authorized to levy any taxes or impose any form of taxation.
Sec. 2-105. - Repealer.
All laws and parts of laws in conflict with this act are hereby repealed.
