ARTICLE VII. - MUNICIPAL CLAIMS

Section 7-1. - Execution to enforce collection.
The city council shall have the authority to enforce by execution the collection of any debt or claim due or to become due to the city for taxes, license fees, rents, impounding fees, fines, and forfeitures, for laying sewers and mains, and for abating nuisances, and for any and all levies, assessments, debts, or demands, due or to become due to the city; the executions to be issued by the clerk of the city council, signed by him and the mayor of the city, directed to the chief of police of the City of Statesboro, and to all and singular the sheriffs, deputy sheriffs, and constables of this state, by any one of whom the same may be executed, and who are authorized to levy the same upon the property against which it is issued, or on the property of the owner against whom such execution shall issue, and the same to be sold as provided by O.C.G.A. § 48-5-350 et seq. in cases of sales for taxes.
Section 7-2. - Payment of costs of execution, sale thereunder.
The cost of the issuing and levying of any execution authorized by this Charter, and of the sale of any property under the same, shall be paid by the person against whom the execution shall issue, or paid out of the proceeds of the property levied on and sold; and the city council of the city are authorized to prepare and establish a fee bill of the cost.
Section 7-3. - Time, place, manner of execution; sale, delivery of title, possession.
It shall be the duty of the chief of police to levy all executions in favor of the city, and, after advertising for 30 days as sheriff's sales are advertised, he shall sell the property levied upon before the courthouse door in Bulloch County, on a regular sheriff's sale day, within the legal hours of sheriff's sales, at public outcry, to the highest bidder, and execute titles to purchaser, and shall have the same power to place the purchaser in possession as sheriffs of the state have; provided, however, should any of the property levied upon, as before provided, remain in the hands of the levying officer and is of a perishable nature or liable to deteriorate in value from keeping, or there is expense attending the keeping of the same (the same not being real estate), it may be sold as in such cases provided in O.C.G.A. §§ 9-13-163 and 9-13-164; except that the order to sell shall be obtained from the mayor. In the event the executions are levied by any person authorized to levy and execute the same and not by the chief of police, the time, place, and manner of sale shall be the same as if levied by the chief of police.
Section 7-4. - Force, effect of execution.
The executions issued in accordance with the power and authority conferred by section 9-8 of this Charter shall have the same force and binding effect as other executions for taxes; in case they are for ad valorem taxes due the city, and in case they are for other taxes, licenses, fines, forfeitures, or demands due the city, shall have the same force and binding effect as executions issued from the superior courts and justice courts of this state, and may be levied by any officer to whom they are directed, upon any property in the state subject to execution.
Section 7-5. - Defenses to executions.
The same right and privilege shall belong to the person against whom executions issue to file an illegality to the execution, and to any person not a party to the execution to file a claim to the property levied on and give bond, as if the executions issued from a justice's or superior court of this state. The paper connected with claim or illegality cases shall be returned to that court, according to the amount involved, in Bulloch County, as provided by the laws of Georgia, which has jurisdiction to try such claims and illegalities. In the event the real estate levied on lies in another county, and a claim of illegality shall be filed, then such case shall be tried in that court in the county where the land lies, according to the amount involved, which has jurisdiction to try similar claims and illegalities.
Section 7-6. - Officer conducting execution sale to execute title, deliver possession.
In all cases, the officers conducting a sale under the execution shall execute title to the property sold and put the purchaser in possession of the same.
