ARTICLE VI. - ARREST

Section 6-1. - Authority to issue warrants for arrest, to fix bail.
The municipal court judge or other authorized official designated under Georgia law, of the city is authorized to issue warrants for the arrest of all persons charged, upon affidavits made before him, with having committed within the limits of the City of Statesboro offenses against any penal law of the state, and to take examination of such persons, and the same to discharge or commit to prison or to let to bail, according to law, to answer such charge before the court having jurisdiction in the same manner as justices of the peace of the counties of the state, now or hereafter may have by law, all of which warrants shall be addressed to "the chief of police of Statesboro, Georgia, or any lawful policeman thereof, and to all and singular the sheriffs, deputy sheriffs, and constables of this state," and any one of the officers shall have the same authority to execute the warrants as the sheriffs of this state have to execute criminal warrants.
Section 6-2. - Commitment for violation of penal laws of state.
If, on the trial of any person before the mayor, (municipal court judge) mayor pro tempore, (municipal court judge) or city council for violation of any ordinance or law of the city, it shall appear that probable cause exists against such persons for violating the penal laws of the state, it shall be the duty of the court trying such person to commit such persons or person to prison or set bail, to answer before the court having jurisdiction of the same for the offense committed.
Section 6-3. - Arrest without warrant; authority to summon assistance.
It shall be lawful for the chief of police of the city, or any regular or special policeman thereof, to arrest without warrant any and all persons if the offense is committed in his presence or within his immediate knowledge, if the offender is endeavoring to escape, if the officer has probable cause to believe that an act of family violence, as defined in O.C.G.A. ยง 19-13-1, has been committed, or for other causes if there is likely to be a failure of justice for want of a judicial officer to issue a warrant. The offender so arrested shall be held until a hearing of the matter before the proper officer can be had, and to this end the arresting officers are authorized to imprison and confine any person arrested by them in the city jail or in the county jail of Bulloch County for a reasonable length of time.
The chief of police, regular or special policeman, shall have the power and authority to call to his assistance, in order to arrest and detain such offenders, the sheriff of the county or his deputies, any constable of the county, or members of other law enforcement agencies both state and federal.
Section 6-4. - Authority to release prisoner upon posting appearance bond.
The chief of police, or his appointee, shall have the right and privilege (though they shall not be compelled, if it would be dangerous, to allow their prisoner to run at large) to release any person arrested within the corporate limits of the city, upon such person giving a bond to be approved by the chief of police or his appointee or mayor (municipal court judge), of the city, payable to the City of Statesboro, conditioned to pay the City of Statesboro an amount fixed by the chief of police or his appointee or mayor (municipal court judge), and named in the bond, in the event the person arrested does not appear before the corporate authorities of this city at the time and place specified in the bond and from time to time until the person so arrested is tried for the offense for which he or she was arrested.
Section 6-5. - Forfeiture of appearance bond.
If any person who has been arrested, charged with a violation of any law or ordinance of the City of Statesboro, and has given bond for his or her appearance before the proper corporate authorities to answer such charge, fails to appear at the time and place specified in the bond, the bond shall be declared forfeited and a rule nisi directed to the principal and security shall issue directing and requiring them to show cause before the municipal court, at a sitting of the court to be held not less than 60 days from the time of the forfeited nisi, why the bond should not be absolutely forfeited, copies of which rule nisi shall be served upon the principal and sureties on the bond at least 20 days before the sitting to which it is made returnable, either personally or by leaving same at the most notorious place of abode of the person upon whom service is perfected, or by publishing same once a week for four weeks prior to the sitting of the court, to which the same is returnable in the official organ of Bulloch County. If at such return term no sufficient cause be shown to the contrary, the forfeiture shall be made final and absolute, and execution shall issue against the principal and securities on the bond, or such of them as have been served, for the full amount thereof and all costs, which shall include the cost of publication, if service by that method is used, which execution shall be signed by the clerk of the council and mayor of the city, and shall have the same lien and binding effect upon the property of the defendants therein as executions issued upon judgments in the justice and superior courts of this state. The execution shall be directed to the chief of police of Statesboro, and to all and singular the sheriffs, deputy sheriffs, and constables of the state, by any one of whom the same may be levied.
