Chapter 22 - EMERGENCY SERVICES[1]
Footnotes:
--- (1) ---
Cross reference— Civil emergencies, ch. 18.

ARTICLE I. - IN GENERAL

Sec. 22-1. - E911 charge.
Pursuant to O.C.G.A. § 45-5-133, and subject to the referendum approval requirements and other requirements of such statute, the board of commissioners hereby imposes within the county a monthly enhanced E911 charge of $1.50 per month upon each exchange access facility subscribed to by telephone subscribers whose exchange access lines are in the areas which would be served by the enhanced E911 service. This resolution, and the imposition and collection of the enhanced E911 charge as provided herein shall become effective January 1, 1995. The enhanced E911 service charge shall be uniform and shall not vary according to the type of exchange access facility used.
(Res. of 5-16-94)
Related laws reference—Implementation of E911 service, art. I, § 8.
State Law reference— Georgia Emergency Telephone Number 911 Service Act of 1977, O.C.G.A. § 46-5-120 et seq.
Secs. 22-2—22-30. - Reserved.
ARTICLE II. - AMBULANCE SERVICE[2]

Footnotes:
--- (2) ---
State Law reference— Authority to provide ambulance and emergency rescue services, Ga. Const. art. IX, § II, ¶ III(a)(3); emergency medical services, O.C.G.A. § 31-11-1 et seq.; standards for ambulances, O.C.G.A. § 31-11-34; emergency vehicle equipment, O.C.G.A. § 40-8-90 et seq.

Sec. 22-31. - Definitions.
The following words, terms and phrases, when used in this article, shall have the meanings ascribed to them in this section, except where the context clearly indicates a different meaning:
Advanced emergency medical technician (A-EMT) means a person who has been certified by the composite state board of medical examiners after having been trained in emergency care techniques in an advanced emergency medical technician training course approved by the department of human resources.
Advanced life support means provisions of procedures included in the cardiac technician or advanced EMT courses as approved by the department of human resources.
Advance life support vehicle means an ambulance that has personnel on board that meets the other requirements of the rules of the department of human resources, ch. 290-5-30, and has at least one cardiac technician or advanced EMT in charge of patient care.
Ambulance means a motor vehicle which is specially constructed and equipped and is intended to be used for the emergency transportation of patients, including dual purpose police patrol cars and funeral coaches or hearses which otherwise comply with the provisions of the rules of the department of human resources, ch. 290-5-30.
Ambulance provider means an agency or company providing ambulance service which is operating under a valid license from the emergency health section of the division of public health of the department of human resources.
Ambulance service means the providing of emergency care and transportation on the public streets and highways of this county for a wounded, injured, sick, invalid or incapacitated human being to or from a place where medical or hospital care is furnished.
Cardiac technician means a person who, after having been trained and certified as an EMT and having completed additional training in advanced cardiac life support techniques in a training course approved by the department of human resources, is so certified by the composite state board of medical examiners.
Emergency means any circumstance calling for immediate action in which medical attention is indicated.
Emergency medical technician (EMT) means a person who has been certified by the department of human resources after having successfully completed an emergency medical care training program approved by the department of human resources.
Invalid car means a motor vehicle not used for emergency purposes but only to transport persons who are convalescent, sick, or otherwise not ambulatory.
Patient means an individual who is sick, injured, wounded or otherwise incapacitated or helpless.
Cross reference— Definitions generally, § 1-2.
Sec. 22-32. - Minimum staffing, equipment.
All licensed ambulances transporting ambulance patients from origins within the county shall be staffed and equipped to provide advanced life support as defined in rules of the department of human resources, ch. 290-5-30.
Sec. 22-33. - Operators.
No person shall operate an ambulance in this county without being in compliance with the provisions of O.C.G.A. ch. 31-11, the rules of the department of human resources, ch. 290-5-30, and this article.
Sec. 22-34. - Exceptions.
The provisions of this article shall not apply to the following:
(1)
An ambulance or ambulance service operated by an agency of the United States government.
(2)
A vehicle rendering assistance temporarily in the case of a major catastrophe or disaster which is beyond the capabilities of available state licensed ambulance services operating within Colquitt Regional Medical Center.
(3)
An ambulance operated from a location outside of the county in transporting patients, picked up beyond the limits of the county, to locations within or outside of the county.
(4)
An invalid car or the operator thereof.
