Chapter 6 - ANIMALS[1]

Footnotes:
--- (1) ---
Editor's note— Ord. No. 97-2, adopted April 1, 1997, amended the Code by repealing Ch. 6, § 6-1, and adding a new Ch. 6, §§ 6-1—6-10. Former Ch. 6 pertained to similar subject matter, and derived from the Code of 1981, § 4-1.
Cross reference— Administration, ch. 2.
State Law reference— Cruelty to animals, O.C.G.A. § 16-12-4; authority to exercise animal control, Ga. Const. art. IX, § II, ¶ III(a)(3); control of rabies, O.C.G.A. § 31-19-1 et seq.; rabies inoculation tags, O.C.G.A. § 31-19-6; dangerous Dog Control Law, O.C.G.A. § 4-8-20 et seq.; permitting dogs in heat to run at large, O.C.G.A. § 4-8-6.

Sec. 6-1. - Authority.
Pursuant to the supplementary powers contained in the Constitution of the State of Georgia, Article 9, Section 2, Paragraph 3(a)(3), the board of commissioners of Colquitt County hereby enacts this chapter, known as the Colquitt County Dog Control Ordinance.
(Ord. No. 97-2, 4-1-97)
Sec. 6-2. - Applicability.
This chapter shall apply to all of the unincorporated areas within the geographical boundaries of the county.
(Ord. No. 97-2, 4-1-97)
Sec. 6-3. - Acts constituting a nuisance.
All persons owning or controlling a dog(s) shall at all times keep such animal(s) under control in such a fashion that said dog(s) shall not become or constitute a nuisance to other persons living in the county.
Acts constituting a nuisance shall include, but not be limited to, the following:
(1)
Failure of such dog to have a current rabies vaccination;
(2)
Biting of person or another person's pet dog or cat;
(3)
Presence on private property in such manner as to injure or threaten injury or damage to person(s) or property; and
(4)
Roaming of streets or private property.
(Ord. No. 97-2, 4-1-97)
Sec. 6-4. - Written complaints.
Any person aggrieved by a dog(s) who is/are a nuisance shall have the right to notify the animal control officer of the county in writing as to the nature of the problem, a general description of the dog(s) constituting the nuisance, the date when same occurred and the name, address and phone number of the person making the complaint. The complaint should also specify, if possible, the name, address and phone number of the owner of the dog(s) alleged to have constituted a nuisance.
(Ord. No. 97-2, 4-1-97)
Sec. 6-5. - Actions upon notification.
Upon notification, the animal control officer for the county shall notify the owner(s) of the dog(s) alleged to have constituted a nuisance in writing that a complaint has been made under this chapter, if said owner's name and address is known. The county animal control officer shall proceed to pick up and impound the dog(s) alleged to be a nuisance if such dog(s) is/are identifiable, roaming at large, located on the property of the complaining party, or if said dog(s) has/have bitten another or another person's pet dog or cat. Otherwise, the county will then place a dog trap(s) on the property of the person making the complaint. Said trap(s) shall be left on the property of the person complaining for a reasonable period of time in an effort to trap a dog(s) that comes onto the property of the person complaining without invitation. The number of traps and the duration of time said traps are left on the property of the person complaining shall be left to the discretion of the animal control officer.
(Ord. No. 97-2, 4-1-97)
Sec. 6-6. - Captured dogs.
Should a dog(s) be captured by the dog trap(s) placed by the county, then upon notification the animal control officer will remove the captured dog(s) together with the trap(s) and impound said captured dog(s) at the county dog impoundment collection station. If the owner of said dog(s) which has/have been captured or impounded is known, then the animal control officer shall notify said owner in writing that said dog(s) has/have been impounded by the county at the county dog impoundment collection station.
(Ord. No. 97-2, 4-1-97)
Sec. 6-7. - Redeeming of trapped and impounded dogs.
An owner or other person(s) desiring to redeem a nuisance dog as defined by section 6-3 that has been impounded as a result of having been caught in a dog trap placed by the county pursuant to this chapter or that has been directly picked up and impounded by the animal control officer shall pay a charge of fifty dollars ($50.00) to the county the first time said dog is redeemed. The charge shall be one hundred dollars ($100.00) for the second time that said dog has been redeemed as a result of having been impounded within any twenty-four-month period. The charge shall be three hundred dollars ($300.00) for the third time that the same dog is redeemed after having been impounded within any preceding twenty-four-month period. Additionally, said person shall pay the cost of keeping such animal while impounded. Such fees shall be established by the Humane Society and prominently posted at the pound. All dogs not redeemed after having been impounded for more than five (5) days for acts constituting a nuisance may be humanely destroyed or otherwise disposed of by the county. This section shall not apply to dogs impounded pursuant to section 6-11.
(Ord. No. 97-2, 4-1-97; Res. No. 2016-R-11, 9-6-16)
Sec. 6-8. - Redeeming of dogs impounded for other reasons.
A person desiring to redeem a dog impounded by the county for any other reason other than having been impounded for acts constituting a nuisance, or other than violation of section 6-11, shall pay to the county a charge of twenty-five dollars ($25.00) if the dog has been in the custody of the county for five (5) days or less. If an owner redeems his dog after such five-day period, he shall pay a charge of twenty-five dollars ($25.00) to the county plus five dollars ($5.00) for each day over five (5) days that the dog has been in the county's custody. Additionally, said person shall pay the cost of keeping such animal while impounded. Such fees shall be established by the Humane Society and prominently posted at the pound. After five (5) days, such dog may be humanely destroyed or otherwise disposed of by the animal control officer.
(Ord. No. 97-2, 4-1-97; Res. No. 2016-R-11, 9-6-16)
Sec. 6-9. - Animal control officer designated.
The county administration shall designate the person who shall be the Colquitt County animal control officer. The animal control officer is authorized to issue citations for enforcement of this chapter, returnable to the Magistrate Court of Colquitt County.
(Ord. No. 97-2, 4-1-97; Res. No. 2016-R-11, 9-6-16)
Sec. 6-10. - Repeal of conflicting laws.
All laws or parts of laws in conflict with the ordinance are hereby repealed.
(Ord. No. 97-2, 4-1-97)
Sec. 6-11. - Animal restraint.
(a)
Applicability. This section shall apply to those unincorporated areas within the geographical boundaries of the county which are located within one of the following zoning districts, as defined by the Zoning Ordinance of Colquitt County, to wit: R-1 (single-family residential), R-1MH (single-family residential), R-2 (two-family residential), R-3 (multiple-family residential), or R-PUD (residential planned unit development).
(b)
General restraint requirements. The owner of any animal shall keep such animal in a condition of restraint to prevent such animal from being at large. An animal is under restraint within the meaning of this section if it is:
(1)
Controlled by a leash;
(2)
On or within a vehicle being driven or parked on the streets, provided that the animal must be confined within any open vehicle by a leash; or
(3)
Confined within a suitable enclosure.
(c)
No animal shall be confined on the owner's premises by a leash of less than ten feet in length, except by a leash which is a free running line. The length of leash shall not be long enough to allow the animal to leave the premises of the owner. A free running line shall be one which is attached or is secured by a swivel or other device which will turn and remain free running when wrapped around some object.
(d)
The provisions of this section shall not apply to:
(1)
Dogs leading blind persons;
(2)
Security dogs used in commercial establishments; or
(3)
Dogs which are trained to do work or perform tasks for individuals with a disability, including a physical, sensory, psychiatric, intellectual, or other mental disability, or dogs trained to provide emotional support, well-being, comfort or companionship for such individuals, known as "service dogs" or "assistance dogs."
(e)
The owner of any animal which violates any provision of this section shall be fined a minimum of fifty dollars ($50.00) for the first offense, shall be fined a minimum of one hundred fifty dollars ($150.00) for the second offense, shall be fined a minimum of two hundred fifty dollars ($250.00) for the third offense, and shall be fined a minimum of five hundred dollars ($500.00) for the fourth offense.
(f)
Upon the fourth offense by any animal, the owner shall be required to permanently remove it from the county.
(g)
Upon the fifth offense, the animal control officer may take up the animal and destroy it. In addition to the fines stated above, the owner shall pay the cost of keeping such animal while impounded. Such fees shall be established by the Humane Society and prominently posted at the pound.
(h)
This section shall be enforced by the animal control officer designated pursuant to section 6-9 of this chapter.
(Ord. No. 2014-1, 6-3-14; Res. No. 2016-R-11, 9-6-16)
Sec. 6-12. - Additional conditions on release of impounded animals.
When any animal shall be impounded pursuant to the provisions of this article, the animal control officer may impose such conditions on the release of such animal as may be necessary, or desirable, in order to avoid, forestall or prevent the reoccurrence of the violation leading to the impoundment of such animal; and no animal shall be redeemed by the owner of the animal or other person except upon an undertaking to comply with all the provisions of this chapter, which may include an undertaking by such person to keep such animal outside the city, an undertaking to pay for any damage done by such animal and any other condition reasonably calculated to protect the public health, safety and general welfare of the citizens of the county.
(Res. No. 2016-R-11, 9-6-16)
