Chapter 38 - OFFENSES AND MISCELLANEOUS PROVISIONS[1]

Footnotes:
--- (1) ---
State Law reference— Violation of county ordinances, O.C.G.A. § 15-10-60 et seq.; criminal Code of Georgia, O.C.G.A. § 16-1-1 et seq.; limitation on home rule powers of municipal corporations with respect to duplication of state criminal offenses, O.C.G.A. § 36-35-6(a)(2); authority to adopt ordinances for the purpose of preserving public health, safety and welfare, O.C.G.A. § 36-1-20.

Sec. 38-1. - Disorderly conduct.
It shall be unlawful and disorderly conduct for any person to:
(1)
Act in a violent or tumultuous manner toward another, whereby a reasonable person would be placed in fear of safety for life or limb.
(2)
Place the property of another in serious danger of being destroyed or damaged.
(3)
Use fighting words directed toward another, who becomes outraged and thus creates a turmoil.
(4)
Violently interfere with another's pursuit of a lawful occupation.
(5)
Congregate with others to halt the flow of vehicular or pedestrian traffic and refuse to clear the way when ordered by lawful authority to do so.
Sec. 38-2. - Smoking in public buildings.
(a)
Prohibition; exceptions. It shall be unlawful for any person to smoke in a public building owned by the county except in specific designated areas.
(b)
Designated areas. Designated areas shall be noted in each building where permitted and a copy of the designated areas maintained on file in the office of the county commission.
(c)
Penalty. Violations of the prohibition shall be subject to penalties as provided in section 1-11 of this Code.
Cross reference— Health and sanitation, ch. 30.
State Law reference— Smoking in public places, O.C.G.A. § 16-12-2.
Sec. 38-3. - Campaign posters, signs and advertisements.
(a)
It shall be unlawful for any person to place campaign posters, campaign signs, and campaign advertisements:
(1)
Within the right-of-way of any county streets, roads or highways;
(2)
On any property or building owned, leased or occupied by the county, its employees, agents, or any agency thereof;
(3)
On any property to which the zoning ordinance of the county applies unless and until full compliance is had with the provision in the zoning ordinance regulating the placement of campaign signs.
(b)
Any person who violates this section, may be prosecuted in the magistrate court of the county, and shall upon conviction, be punished in a manner provided by general state law for violation of county ordinances.
(c)
This section shall not preempt the provisions of O.C.G.A. § 21-1-1, but shall be in addition thereto.
(d)
All ordinances and parts of ordinances in conflict with this ordinance are hereby repealed.
(Ord. No. 96-10, 10-21-96)
