ARTICLE VIII. - MOULTRIE-COLQUITT COUNTY PARKS AND RECREATION AUTHORITY[10]

Footnotes:
--- (10) ---
Editor's note— Printed herein is Act 96 (2017 HB 395), approved May 2, 2017, which provides for a Moultrie-Colquitt County Parks and Recreation Authority. Amendments to the act are indicated by parenthetical history notes following amended provisions. The absence of a history note indicates that the provision remains unchanged from the original act. Obvious misspellings have been corrected without notation. For stylistic purposes, a uniform system of headings, catchlines, and citations to state statutes has been used. Additions made for clarity are indicated by brackets.

Sec. 1. - Title.
This Act shall be known and may be cited as the "Moultrie-Colquitt County Parks and Recreation Authority Act."
Sec. 2. - Created; name; members; generally.
(a)
There is created a body corporate and politic to be known as the Moultrie-Colquitt County Parks and Recreation Authority, which shall be deemed to be a political subdivision of the State of Georgia and a public corporation. By that name, style, and title, such body may contract and be contracted with, sue and be sued, implead and be impleaded, and complain and defend in all courts of law and equity. The authority shall have its principal office in Colquitt County, and its legal situs or residence for the purposes of this Act shall be Colquitt County. The scope of the authority's operation shall be limited to the territory embraced within Colquitt County. The authority is granted the same exemptions and exclusions from taxes as are now granted to cities and counties for the operation of facilities similar to facilities to be owned or operated by the authority as provided under the provisions of this Act.
(b)
The authority shall consist of seven members, with three members to be appointed by a majority vote of the governing authority of Colquitt County, no more than one of whom may be a member of such governing authority, three members to be appointed by a majority vote of the governing authority of the City of Moultrie, no more than one of whom may be a member of such governing authority, and one member, designated as the "Alternating Member," to be appointed by the governing authority of Colquitt County and the governing authority of the City of Moultrie on an alternating basis, first by the county governing authority and then by the city governing authority, said Alternating Member to serve a three-year term subject to the provisions of subsection (d) of this section. Said Alternating Member shall be a member of neither the governing authority of the City of Moultrie nor the governing authority of Colquitt County. The county administrator of Colquitt County and the city manager of the City of Moultrie shall be non-voting, ex officio members of the authority. Initial members of the authority shall be appointed by July 1, 2017.
(c)
To be eligible for membership on the authority, a person shall be at least 21 years of age, shall have been a resident of Colquitt County for at least two years, shall reside in Colquitt County during his or her membership, and, with the exception of members appointed pursuant to subparagraph (b) of this section, shall not hold an elected or appointed public office in Colquitt County or any of its municipalities at the time of the appointment.
(d)
The terms of the membership of the authority members shall be as follows: the initial Alternating Member, one of Colquitt County's initial three appointees, and one of the City of Moultrie's initial three appointees shall all serve a term to expire December 31, 2018. A second of Colquitt County's initial three appointees and a second of the City of Moultrie's initial three appointees shall serve a term to expire December 31, 2019. The third of Colquitt County's initial three appointees and the third of the City of Moultrie's initial three appointees shall serve a term to expire December 31,2020. Thereafter, all appointees shall serve terms of three years. Members may succeed themselves in office.
(e)
The members of the authority shall enter upon their duties immediately upon their appointment.
(f)
The office of any member of the authority shall be declared vacant upon a determination by a majority of the members of the authority that such authority member has been, while in office, arrested for or convicted of a felony, a misdemeanor of a high and aggravated nature, or a crime involving moral turpitude, has moved such member's residence from Colquitt County, or has been elected or appointed to another public office during the term of the appointment during such member's term of office. The authority shall be authorized to remove from office any member of the authority by a vote of at least two-thirds of the members in the event that such member of the authority is found to be guilty of misfeasance or malfeasance in office, is found to have failed to attend three or more successive regular meetings of the authority without a reasonable excuse approved by a resolution adopted by the authority, or who is found to have engaged in actions or activities which are detrimental to the carrying out of the duties and obligations of the authority.
(g)
Any vacancy on the authority shall be filled within 60 days through appointment by a majority vote of the governing authority that had appointed the authority member whose resignation, removal, or ineligibility resulted in such vacancy. The person so appointed shall serve for the remainder of the unexpired term.
(h)
At the inception of the authority and during the month of January of each year thereafter, except as hereinafter provided, the authority shall elect, as provided in this Act, one of its members as chairperson, vice chairperson, and a secretary-treasurer. Such officers shall serve a term of one year beginning on the date of their election and ending December 31 of the same year, or until their successors are duly elected and qualified. The first chairperson shall be elected by a majority vote of the members who are appointed by the governing authority of the City of Moultrie. The first vice chairperson shall be elected by a majority vote of the members who are appointed by the governing authority of Colquitt County. The secretary-treasurer shall be elected by a majority vote of the members of the authority. The first chairperson, vice chairperson, and secretary-treasurer shall serve until December 31, 2018. Thereafter, in years ending with odd numbers, the chairperson shall be elected by a majority vote of the members appointed by the governing authority of Colquitt County, and the vice chairperson shall be elected by a majority vote of the members of the authority appointed by the governing authority of the City of Moultrie; and in the years ending with even numbers, the chairperson shall be elected by a majority vote of the members appointed by the governing authority of the City of Moultrie, and the vice chairperson shall be elected by a majority vote of the members of the authority appointed by the governing authority of Colquitt County. The chairperson shall have such powers and duties as granted from time to time by resolution of the authority. When the vice chairperson is acting on behalf of the chairperson, the vice chairperson shall have the same duties and powers of the chairperson.
(i)
The authority shall meet at least once monthly for the transaction of business. The authority may convene in special meetings on the call of the chairperson. If the chairperson is unable or fails to call a special meeting upon request of an authority member, the authority may convene a special meeting upon call by a majority of its members.
(j)
A majority of the members of the authority shall constitute a quorum, but no action may be taken by the members of the authority without the affirmative vote of a majority of the full membership of the authority. No vacancy on the authority shall impair the right of the quorum to exercise all the rights and perform all the duties of the authority.
(k)
The authority shall make bylaws and other rules and regulations for its own governance, which may include the use of Robert's Rules of Order, and may amend such rules and regulations by a majority vote of the authority. The authority may delegate to one or more of its officers, agents, or employees such powers and duties as may be deemed necessary and proper.
(l)
The members of the authority shall receive no compensation for their services, but shall be reimbursed from any available funds for their actual and necessary expenses incurred in the performance of their duties.
(m)
No member of the authority shall have, directly or indirectly, any financial interest, profit, or benefit in any contract, work, or business of the authority, nor in the sale, lease, or purchase of any property to or from the authority unless:
(1)
Any interest, profit, or benefit of such member is disclosed in advance to the other members of the authority and is recorded in the minutes of the authority;
(2)
Such member having any such interest, profit, or benefit is not present during that portion of an authority meeting when such contract, work, business, sale, lease, or purchase is being discussed; and
(3)
Such member having such interest, profit, or benefit does not participate in any decision of the authority relating to such matter.
(n)
As used in this section, an "interest, profit, or benefit" shall mean any interest that reasonably may be expected to result in a direct financial benefit to such member as determined by the authority, which determination shall be final and not subject to review.
(o)
All meetings of the authority shall be open to the public to the extent provided in Chapter 14 of Title 50 of the O.C.G.A.
(p)
The authority shall have perpetual existence.
Sec. 3. - Definitions.
(a)
As used in this Act, the term:
(1)
"Authority" means the Moultrie-Colquitt County Parks and Recreation Authority created in Section 2 of this Act.
(2)
"Cost of the project" means and includes:
(A)
All costs of construction, purchase, lease, or other forms of acquisition;
(B)
All costs of real property and any interest therein or thereto incurred in connection with a project, including, without limitation, land, improvements, franchises, easements, water rights, fees, permits, approvals, licenses, and the securing thereof and applying therefor;
(C)
All costs of personal property and any interest therein or thereto incurred in connection with a project including, without limitation, furniture, machinery, equipment, initial fuel, and other supplies;
(D)
Financing charges and interest prior to and during construction and for such additional period as the authority may reasonably determine to be necessary or desirable in order to place such project in operation;
(E)
Costs of engineering, architectural, fiscal, and legal services;
(F)
Cost of plans and specifications and all other expenses necessary or incidental to the acquisition, construction, or equipping of any project or to determining the feasibility or practicability of any project;
(G)
Fees paid to fiscal agents for financial and other advice or supervision;
(H)
Cost of administrative services and such other expenses as may be necessary or incident to the financing authorized by this Act; and
(I)
The cost of a project may also include the payment of any loan made for the advance payment of any part of such cost, including interest thereon, and the costs of funding any debt service reserve or other reserves, as may be reasonably required by the authority with respect to the financing or operation of any project. Any obligation or expense incurred for any of the purposes outlined in this paragraph shall be regarded as part of the cost of the project and may be paid or reimbursed as such out of the proceeds of revenue bonds, notes, or other obligations of the authority issued pursuant to this Act.
(3)
"Project" means and includes the acquisition, construction, installation, modification, renovation, rehabilitation, equipping, maintenance, and operation of parks, athletic, and recreational centers, facilities, and areas of any and all kinds including, but not limited to, playgrounds, parks, swimming pools, diving and wading pools, hiking and camping areas and facilities, picnicking areas and facilities, lakes and ponds, tennis courts, athletic fields, athletic facilities, athletic courts, fishing and boating facilities, skateboarding facilities, bike trails, club houses, gymnasiums, stadiums, auditoriums and amphitheaters, recreation centers and facilities, youth centers, lands for open space, senior citizen centers, golf courses, and equestrian facilities; the usual and convenient facilities, buildings, improvements, machinery, and equipment appertaining thereto, and any and all extensions, additions, and improvements of such facilities; the acquisition, construction, installation, modification, renovation, rehabilitation, equipping, maintenance, and operation of any parking, concession, and dining facilities thereto; and other property of any nature whatsoever including, without limitation, land, buildings, improvements, structures, machinery, equipment, and furniture or areas, deemed by the authority to be necessary, convenient, or desirable in connection with any such parks, athletic, or recreational centers, facilities, and areas.
(4)
"Revenue bonds" and "bonds" means revenue bonds as defined and provided for in Article 3 of Chapter 82 of Title 36 of the O.C.G.A., the "Revenue Bond Law," and which may be issued by the authority as authorized under such article and any amendments thereto.
(b)
Any project shall be deemed "self-liquidating" if, in the judgment of the authority, the revenues and earnings to be derived by the authority therefrom, including the anticipated revenues and earnings from the lease of any project, and all properties used, leased, and sold in connection therewith shall be sufficient to pay the cost of acquiring, operating, maintaining, repairing, improving, or extending the project and to pay the principal of and interest on the revenue bonds or other obligations that may be issued to finance, in whole or in part, the cost of such project or projects.
Sec. 4. - Powers.
(a)
The authority shall have all the powers necessary or convenient to carry out and effectuate the purposes and provisions of this Act including, without limitation, the following powers:
(1)
To adopt a seal and alter the same at its pleasure;
(2)
To provide recreational services throughout Colquitt County;
(3)
To provide park services throughout Colquitt County;
(4)
To develop, provide, maintain, and operate any project;
(5)
To develop and provide athletic and recreational programs, activities, and services;
(6)
To employ or retain agents, engineers, attorneys, fiscal agents, accountants, architects, planners, consultants, parks and recreation directors, supervisors, superintendents, playground leaders, maintenance personnel, administrative personnel, and other personnel necessary for such purposes;
(7)
To acquire, construct, install, modify, renovate, rehabilitate, equip, maintain, and operate any project or portion thereof;
(8)
To acquire by purchase, lease, gift, construction, or otherwise any real or personal property, or any interest therein desired to be acquired, as part of any project or for the purpose of improving, extending, adding to, reconstructing, renovating, or remodeling any project or part thereof already acquired or for the purpose of demolition to make room for any project or any part thereof. If the authority shall deem it expedient to construct any project on any lands, the title to which shall then be in the State of Georgia, the Governor is authorized to convey for and on behalf of the state title to such lands to the authority upon the receipt of such lawful consideration as may be determined by the parties to such conveyance. If the authority shall deem it expedient to lease, acquire, and construct any project on any lands, the title to which shall be in the name of the governing authority of Colquitt County or the governing authority of any municipality located in that county, such entity is authorized in its discretion to lease or convey title to such lands to the authority upon the receipt of such lawful consideration as may be determined by the parties of such conveyances or upon payment for the credit of the general funds of such county or municipalities of the reasonable value of such lands. Such reasonable value shall be determined by mutual consent of such county or municipality and the authority or by an appraiser to be agreed upon by the governing authority or body of such county or municipality and the chairperson of the authority. If the authority shall deem it expedient to lease or acquire any real or personal property from the governing body of Colquitt County or of any municipality located therein, such governing body is authorized in its discretion to lease or convey title to such real or personal property to the authority without consideration from the authority to such governing body;
(9)
To sell, convey, or assign any real or personal property, contract rights, revenues, income, tolls, charges, or fees owned or received by the authority, provided that such conveyance or assignment is not prohibited by the deed of such property to the authority or otherwise prohibited by other contract of the authority;
(10)
To make, execute, and perform all contracts, leases, agreements, and other instruments deemed by the authority to be necessary or convenient in connection with the exercise by the authority of any of its powers, including contracts for the acquisition and construction of projects and leases of projects and contracts with respect to the use of projects which the authority causes to be erected or acquired. Such contracts may be made with any and all persons, firms, and corporations and with Colquitt County or any municipality located in Colquitt County, and with the State of Georgia, or any and all of its political subdivisions, departments, institutions, or agencies, all of whom are authorized to enter into contracts, leases, agreements, or instruments with the authority upon such terms and for such purposes as they deem advisable. Without limiting the generality of this paragraph, authorization is specifically granted to municipal corporations and counties and to the authority to enter into contracts, leases, and sublease-agreements with the State of Georgia, or any agencies or departments thereof, relative to any project or any property which such departments or agencies of the State of Georgia have now or may hereafter obtain by lease from the United States government, or any agencies or departments thereof, and the authority is specifically authorized to convey title in fee simple to any and all of its lands and any improvements thereon to any persons, firms, corporations, or municipalities or to the State of Georgia or to the United States government, or any agencies or departments thereof, subject to the rights and interest of the holders of any of the bonds or obligations issued pursuant to this Act and by the resolution or trust indenture of the authority authorizing the issuance of any of its bonds or obligations as provided in this Act, provided that such conveyance is not prohibited by the deed of such property to the authority or otherwise prohibited by other contract of the authority;
(11)
To construct, erect, acquire, own, repair, remodel, renovate, rehabilitate, maintain, add to, extend, improve, equip, operate, and manage projects as defined in this Act, on land owned or leased by the authority or on land owned or leased by others, and to pay all or part of the cost of any such project from the proceeds of revenue bonds or obligations or other funds of the authority or from such proceeds or other funds or any contributions or grants from any person, firm, or corporation or from the federal government, or any political subdivision thereof, the State of Georgia, or any political subdivision thereof, or any agency or instrumentality of any of the foregoing, all of which the authority is authorized to receive, accept, and use;
(12)
To accept and administer gifts, devises and grants of money, materials, or property of any kind and to administer trusts;
(13)
To borrow money for any of its corporate purposes and to execute and deliver notes, revenue bonds, and other evidences of such indebtedness and to use the proceeds thereof to pay all or any part of the cost of any project or refunding any outstanding indebtedness of the authority or to pay any other cost or expense of the authority incident to or necessary and appropriate to carry out the purposes of this Act;
(14)
As security for the repayment of any indebtedness or other obligations of the authority, to pledge, mortgage, convey, assign, hypothecate, or otherwise encumber any property, real or personal, of the authority and any income or revenues generated therefrom or otherwise, and to execute any trust agreement, indenture, security deed, mortgage, or security agreement containing any provisions not in conflict with law, provided that such trust agreement, indenture, security deed, mortgage, or security agreement, is not prohibited by the deed of such property to the authority or otherwise prohibited by other contract of the authority, which trust agreement, indenture, security deed, mortgage, or security agreement may provide for judicial or nonjudicial foreclosure or forced sale of any property of the authority upon default on such obligations, either in payment of any amount due and owing thereunder, or in the performance or satisfaction of any term or condition, as are contained in such trust agreement, indenture, security deed, mortgage or security agreement. The State of Georgia, on behalf of itself and each county, municipal corporation, political subdivision, or taxing district therein, waives any right which it or such county, municipal corporation, political subdivision, or taxing district may have to prevent the foreclosure or forced sale of any property of the authority so mortgaged or encumbered, and any such mortgage or encumbrance may be foreclosed in accordance with law and the terms thereof;
(15)
To exercise any power usually possessed by private corporations performing similar functions which is not in conflict with the Constitution or laws of this state;
(16)
To do all things necessary or convenient to carry out the powers expressly given in this Act; and
(17)
To extend credit or make loans to any governmental body including, without limitation, Colquitt County or any municipal corporation located therein for the planning, design, construction, acquisition, or carrying out of any project, which credit or loans may be secured by loan agreements, mortgages, security deeds, security agreements, contracts, and any other instruments, fees, or charges, and upon such terms and conditions, as the authority shall determine to be reasonable in connection with such loans.
(b)
The authority is specifically authorized from time to time to sell, lease, grant, exchange, transfer, assign, or otherwise dispose of any surplus property, both real and personal, or any interest therein, that the authority determines is no longer necessary or desirable in connection with its operation or purposes, provided that such sale, lease, grant, exchange, transfer, assignment, or other disposition is not prohibited by the deed of such property to the authority or otherwise prohibited by other contract of the authority.
(c)
Notwithstanding any other provision of this Act to the contrary, the authority shall not have the authority to construct, improve, or maintain any road or street on behalf of, pursuant to a contract with, or through the use of taxes or other revenues of any county or municipal corporation to the extent such is prohibited under subparagraph (e) of Paragraph V of Section VI of Article III of the Constitution of the State of Georgia.
Sec. 5. - Projects.
The authority, or any other authority or body which has or which may in the future succeed to the powers, duties, and liabilities vested in the authority created by this Act, shall have the power and is authorized at any time, or from time to time, to provide by resolution for the issuance of negotiable revenue bonds or other notes, bond anticipation notes, or other evidences of indebtedness for the purpose of paying all or any part of the cost of any one or more projects or refunding any outstanding obligations of the authority. Such bonds or other debt instruments shall be dated and shall bear interest at such rate or rates, shall be payable on such dates, and shall otherwise have such terms and conditions as shall be determined by the authority. All revenue bonds shall be issued pursuant to and in conformity with Article 3 of Chapter 82 of Title 36 of the O.C.G.A., the "Revenue Bond Law," and all procedures pertaining to such issuance and the conditions thereof shall be the same as those contained in the Revenue Bond Law and any amendments thereto.
Sec. 6. - State tax exemption.
All revenue bonds and other debt instruments issued by the authority under the provisions of this Act are declared to be issued for an essential public and governmental purpose, and such bonds and other debt instruments, and the income thereof, shall be exempt from all taxation by the state.
Sec. 7. - Debt.
Any revenue bonds or other debt instruments issued under the provisions of this Act shall not be deemed to constitute a debt of the State of Georgia, Colquitt County, or any municipality within Colquitt County or a pledge of the faith and credit thereof; provided, however, that such debt shall be payable solely from the rentals, revenues, earnings, and funds of the authority as provided in the resolution or contract authorizing the issuance and securing the payment of such bonds or other instruments. The issuance of such revenue bonds or other debt instruments shall not directly, indirectly, or contingently obligate the state or any political subdivision thereof, including Colquitt County and the municipalities within Colquitt County, to levy or to pledge any form of taxation whatsoever therefor or to make any appropriation for their payment, and all such bonds or other debt instruments shall contain recitals on their face covering substantially the foregoing provisions of this section. However, Colquitt County, the municipalities within Colquitt County, or any other political subdivision of the State of Georgia contracting with the authority may obligate itself to pay the amounts required under any contract entered into with the authority from funds received from taxes to be levied and collected for that purpose to the extent necessary to pay the obligations contractually incurred under this section and from any other source. The obligation to make such payments shall constitute a general obligation and a pledge of the full faith and credit of the obligor but shall not constitute a debt of the obligor within the meaning of Paragraph I of Section V of Article IX of the Constitution of the State of Georgia. When under any such contract payments are obligated to be made from taxes to be levied for that purpose, then the obligation to levy and collect such taxes from year to year in an amount sufficient to fulfill and fully comply with the terms of such contract shall be mandatory.
Sec. 8. - Property tax exemption.
The exercise of the powers conferred upon the authority in this Act shall constitute an essential governmental function for a public purpose, and the authority shall be required to pay no taxes or assessments upon any of the property acquired by it or under its jurisdiction, control, possession, or supervision, or upon its activities in the operation and maintenance of property acquired by it or of buildings erected or acquired by it or any fees, rentals, or other charges for the use of such property or buildings or other income received by the authority. The tax exemption provided in this Act shall not include an exemption from sales and use tax on property purchased by or for the use of the authority.
Sec. 9. - Tort immunity and liability for contractual obligations.
The authority shall have the same immunity and exemption from liability for torts and negligence as the State of Georgia, and the officers, agents, and employees of the authority, when in performance of the work of the authority, shall have the same immunity from liability for torts and negligence as officers, agents, and employees of the State of Georgia. The authority may be sued the same as private corporations on any contractual obligation of the authority. The property of the authority shall not be subject to levy and sale under legal process, except as may be contractually authorized by the authority.
Sec. 10. - Jurisdiction.
Any action to protect or enforce any rights under the provisions of this Act or any suit or action against such authority shall be brought in the Superior Court of Colquitt County.
Sec. 11. - Funds deemed to be trust funds.
All funds received pursuant to this Act, whether as proceeds from the sale of revenue bonds or other debt instruments or obligations, or as loans, revenue, rents, fees, charges, or other earnings, or as grants, gifts, or other contributions, shall be deemed to be trust funds to be held and applied by the authority solely as provided in this Act.
Sec. 12. - Funding; budget; audits.
(a)
The authority shall be funded by the governing authority of Colquitt County from county-wide revenues based on a dedicated county-wide millage to be shown as a separate line item on annual property tax bills. The minimum dedicated millage shall be 1.0 mills of the county-wide digest each fiscal year, commencing July 1, 2017, and each fiscal year thereafter. The governing authority of Colquitt County may in its discretion fund the authority in any fiscal year in an amount in excess of 1.0 mills, up to a maximum of 2.0 mills of the county-wide digest each fiscal year.
(b)
The authority shall develop a budget and a financial and program work plan for both capital and operational requirements for the authority's activities for each fiscal year. The authority's fiscal year shall commence July 1 of each calendar year and end June 30 of each succeeding calendar year. Such plan shall be known as the "Annual Operating and Capital Budget of the Moultrie-Colquitt County Parks and Recreation Authority." The budget and plan shall be adopted on or before June 30 of each year, with an effective date of July 1. All projected revenues and estimated expenditures shall be clearly outlined as to source and expenditure classification and purpose. The authority shall balance its budget at the end of each fiscal year.
(c)
Each year the authority shall have made an independent audit and examination of the authority's financial records and transactions. Said audit shall be made in accordance with established national audit and accounting standards. Copies of said audit shall be available for public review.
(d)
The authority may contract for legal, financial, and auditing services but only with attorneys, financial advisors, and auditors, other than those employed by Colquitt County or any of the municipalities located therein.
Sec. 13. - Officers and employees.
(a)
The authority is authorized to appoint, select, and employ officers, agents, and employees to adopt rules regulations governing their services, fix their respective compensations and terms of employment, and to contract with other entities for the provision of personnel employed by such other entities to be provided on behalf of the authority, provided that such personnel shall be subject to all rules and regulations of the authority governing the services and compensation of employees of the authority.
(b)
The authority shall notify the City of Moultrie of the number of employees that it will require to properly operate the facilities and programs of the authority. The City of Moultrie shall transfer such employees as it deems appropriate to the authority. Upon transfer of such employees to the authority, the employees shall become employees of the authority and no longer employees of the City of Moultrie.
(c)
The authority will use its best efforts to adopt a benefit plan so that each former city employee's benefit plan existing on date of transfer of the employee from the city to the authority will not be lost or reduced.
(d)
The transfer of employees as described in this section shall be completed on or before December 31, 2017.
Sec. 14. - Liberal construction.
This Act and any other law enacted with reference to the authority shall be liberally construed for the accomplishment of the purposes of the authority.
Sec. 15. - Dissolution.
When the authority for any reason is dissolved after full payment of all indebtedness incurred under the provisions of this Act, both as to principal and interest, title to any property held by the authority shall be conveyed prior to such dissolution in accordance with provisions which may be made therefor in any deed of such property to the authority, including any deed or other conveyance document by which such property was conveyed to the authority by Colquitt County or any city located therein, or title to all property of any kind and nature, real and personal, held by the authority at the time of such dissolution, shall be conveyed to Colquitt County, subject to any liens, leases, or other encumbrances outstanding against or in respect to said property at the time of such conveyance.
Sec. 16. - When effective.
The authority shall become active on July 1, 2017. The authority shall begin providing recreational services no later than January 1, 2018.
Sec. 17. - Conflicting law.
All laws and parts of laws in conflict with this Act are repealed.
