Sec. 3.03.43. - Land use restrictions.
The following limitations on permissible uses together with the limitations on land use prescribed under the ordinances of Butts County, the laws of the state of Georgia, the regulations of the regulatory agencies of the state of Georgia, the laws of the United States of America, and the regulations of the regulatory agencies of the United States of America shall apply.
(a)
The following regulations shall apply to the Towaliga River Water Supply Watershed identified on the adopted map as a small supply watershed:
(1)
The corridors of all perennial streams within a seven-mile radius upstream of a governmentally-owned public drinking water supply intake or water supply reservoir must be protected by the following criteria:
a.
A buffer shall be maintained for a distance of 100 feet on both sides of the stream as measured from the stream banks.
b.
No impervious surface shall be constructed within a 150-foot setback area on both sides of the stream as measured from the stream banks.
c.
Septic tanks and septic tank drainfields are prohibited in the 150-foot setback area as described in (1)b. above.
(2)
The corridors of all perennial streams outside a seven-mile radius upstream of a governmentally-owned public drinking water supply intake or water supply reservoir must be protected by the following criteria:
a.
A buffer shall be maintained for a distance of 100 feet on both sides of the stream as measured from the stream banks. Where more stringent buffer requirements of other articles of this UDO or other ordinances apply, the greater buffer requirement shall take precedence.
b.
No impervious surfaces shall be constructed within a 75-foot setback area on both sides of the stream as measured from the stream banks. Where more stringent impervious surface requirements of other articles of this UDO or other ordinances apply, the greater impervious surface limitation shall take precedence.
c.
Septic tanks and septic tank drainfields are prohibited in the setback area as described in (2)b. above.
(3)
The impervious surface area of developments within the Towaliga River Water Supply Watershed, including all public and private structures, utilities, or facilities, shall be limited to 25 percent, or the percent of the existing use, as of the date of the adoption of this provision of the UDO, whichever is greater, unless the following structural stormwater controls are taken:
a.
Stormwater management plan detailing the stormwater control structures proposed for the development shall be required. Said plan shall be in conformity with the requirements of the Georgia Stormwater Management Manual, latest edition. The preferred structure control is a wet detention pond which shall be located on site or as part of a regional pond where available. The design standards for detention ponds intended for watershed protection shall be found in the Georgia Stormwater Management Manual, latest edition. The construction of all stormwater controls designed for watershed protection shall be completed and have received final inspection approval from the Butts County building inspection section prior to issuance of a certificate of occupancy for a building or final plat approval if developed as an industrial, business, or office park.
b.
Channelization of perennial streams shall be prohibited, except for road crossings, erosion and sedimentation control, or storm management control devices.
c.
All permanent stormwater control structures and easements for maintenance and access shall be recorded in the final plat of the property in accordance with the subdivision ordinance and the Georgia Stormwater Management Manual, latest edition. The developer shall submit a detailed, long-term schedule for inspection and maintenance of stormwater control structures. The schedule shall include a legal agreement for maintenance responsibility between the local government and property owner. No final plat approval or building occupancy permit shall be issued until a fully executed maintenance agreement has been executed and accepted by the county. Inspections can include, but are not limited to:
1.
Initial review of stormwater management plan which must occur prior to issuance of development permit or building permit.
2.
Inspection prior to burial of any underground drainage structure.
3.
Erosion and sedimentation inspections as required on the approved project soil erosion and sedimentation control plan and the county soil erosion and sedimentation control ordinance.
4.
A final inspection when all work, including installation of drainage facilities, has been completed.
5.
Inspection prior to final subdivision plat approval for acceptance of public improvements (streets, stormwater management and drainage facilities).
6.
Subsequent inspections, measurements, and enforcement actions as necessary to ensure continued functioning of the facilities for stormwater management and watershed protection.
d.
A development may participate in a regional wet detention pond program which has been established by one or more public or private entities subject to the following conditions:
1.
Runoff from the development drains into a regional stormwater management control facility approved by the county.
2.
An agreement between the county and the landowner has been executed which guarantees stormwater arrangement of the property and the detention pond.
3.
Construction of a regional detention pond meets or exceeds the design requirements of the Georgia Stormwater Management Manual, latest edition.
e.
A development may provide an alternative method for stormwater control other than a wet detention pond provided that it is in compliance with the Georgia Stormwater Management Manual, latest edition, and design criteria for pollutant removal equivalent to those associated with wet detention ponds included in the Georgia Stormwater Management Manual, latest edition.
