Sec. 3.03.19. - Impervious surface limitations.
The percentage of impervious area allowed in the WQCA and LDA of the Tussahaw Watershed District are set forth below. The percentages set forth below shall be determined by the addition of all land areas to be covered by impervious structures during the development of the property (i.e., roads, streets, driveways, houses, buildings, and parking areas).
(a)
Water quality critical area. No more than 20 percent of the land area of any parcel on which a new development is placed may be covered by impervious surface within the WQCA.
(b)
Limited development area. No more than 25 percent of the land area of any parcel on which a new development is placed may be covered by impervious surface within the LDA.
(c)
The impervious surface of a single-family residential development within the LDA may be increased to 35 percent provided that:
(1)
Development of land in the LDA includes area(s) set aside to remain in natural vegetation or open space in the amount of two times the area of impervious surface above the 25 percent limit. Ownership of such parcels in fee simple or as a conservation easement must be conveyed to the county, a homeowners' association, or some other governmental or nonprofit entity.
(2)
If the recipient of the property or conservation easement is to be an existing or proposed organization other than a governmental entity, the developer must submit to the county articles of association or incorporation which establish the entity. Said document must be approved in writing by the county prior to approving said development. Any proposed changes in said articles shall require the prior written approval of the county.
(3)
If the recipient is a homeowners' association, membership in the homeowners' association shall be mandatory for property owners and made a required covenant in all deeds issued or passed. The association shall provide voting and use rights in the natural vegetated area when applicable and charge dues or levy assessments to cover expenses, which may include tax liabilities of common areas, and for the maintenance of such common areas, natural vegetated areas, improvements, rights-of-way, utilities, etc. Such association shall be responsible for the perpetuation, maintenance, and function of all common lands, uses, and facilities.
(4)
All lands and improvements shall be described and identified as to location, size, use, and control in a restrictive covenant. The details of all easements conveyed shall be likewise described. These restrictive covenants shall be written so as to run with the land and become a part of the deed of each lot or dwelling unit within the development.
(5)
Such restrictive covenants and the association shall continue in effect so as to control the availability of facilities for their intended function and to protect the development from additional unplanned densities and use. Such association shall not be dissolved, nor shall such association dispose of any land set aside for the purposes of this article, by sale or otherwise, without prior written consent of the county.
(6)
Any and all natural vegetated areas shall be held in common ownership by the dwelling unit owners. Any change in the natural or vegetated area, other than to maintain it in reasonable order and condition in accordance with the final approval plan, shall require prior written approval of the county.
(7)
The natural vegetated area may be set aside by the developer by acquiring property in fee simple or a conservation easement within the watershed district.
(d)
The impervious surfaces for industrial, commercial, office, institutional, public, and multi-family residential development within the LDA may be more than 25 percent impervious surfaces provided the following structural stormwater controls are taken:
(1)
Stormwater management plan detailing the stormwater control structures proposed for the development shall be required. Said plan shall be in conformity with the requirements of the Georgia Stormwater Management Manual, latest edition. The preferred structure control is a wet detention pond which shall be located on site or as part of a regional pond where available. The design standards for detention ponds intended for watershed protection shall be found in the Georgia Stormwater Management Manual, latest edition. The construction of all stormwater controls designed for watershed protection shall be completed and have received final inspection approval from the Butts County building inspection section prior to issuance of a certificate of occupancy for a building or final plat approval if developed as an industrial, business, or office park.
(2)
Channelization of perennial streams shall be prohibited, except for road crossings, erosion and sedimentation control, or storm management control devices.
(3)
All permanent stormwater control structures and easements for maintenance and access shall be recorded in the final plat of the property in accordance with the subdivision ordinance and the Georgia Stormwater Management Manual, latest edition. The developer shall submit a detailed, long-term schedule for inspection and maintenance of stormwater control structures. The schedule shall include a legal agreement for maintenance responsibility between the local government and property owner. No final plat approval or building occupancy permit shall be issued until a fully executed maintenance agreement has been executed and accepted by the county. Inspections can include, but are not limited to:
a.
Initial review of stormwater management plan which must occur prior to issuance of development permit or building permit.
b.
Inspection prior to burial of any underground drainage structure.
c.
Erosion and sedimentation inspections as required on the approved project soil erosion and sedimentation control plan and the county soil erosion and sedimentation control ordinance.
d.
A final inspection when all work, including installation of drainage facilities, has been completed.
e.
Inspection prior to final subdivision plat approval for acceptance of public improvements (streets, stormwater management and drainage facilities).
f.
Subsequent inspections, measurements, and enforcement actions as necessary to ensure continued functioning of the facilities for stormwater management and watershed protection.
(4)
A development may participate in a regional wet detention pond program which has been established by one or more public or private entities subject to the following conditions:
a.
Runoff from the development drains into a regional stormwater management control facility approved by the county.
b.
An agreement between the county and the landowner has been executed which guarantees stormwater arrangement of the property and the detention pond.
c.
Construction of a regional detention pond meets or exceeds the design requirements of the Georgia Stormwater Management Manual, latest edition.
(e)
A development may provide an alternative method for stormwater control other than a wet detention pond provided that it is in compliance with the Georgia Stormwater Management Manual, latest edition, and design criteria for pollutant removal equivalent to those associated with wet detention ponds included in the Georgia Stormwater Management Manual, latest edition.
