Sec. 3.01.13. - Permit procedures.
Application for a development permit shall be made to the zoning administrator on forms furnished by the community prior to any development activities and may include, but not be limited to, the following: Plans in duplicate drawn to scale showing the elevations of the area in question and the nature, location and dimensions of existing or proposed structures, earthen fill placement, storage of materials or equipment, and drainage facilities.
Specifically, the following information is required:
(a)
Application stage.
(1)
Elevation in relation to mean sea level (or highest adjacent grade) of the lowest floor, including basement, of all proposed structures;
(2)
Elevation in relation to mean sea level to which any nonresidential structure will be flood-proofed;
(3)
Design certification from a registered professional engineer or architect that any proposed non-residential flood-proofed structure will meet the flood-proofing criteria of section 3.01.16(b);
(4)
Description of the extent to which any watercourse will be altered or relocated as a result of a proposed development; and
(b)
Construction stage. For all new construction and substantial improvements, the permit holder shall provide to the zoning administrator an as-built certification of the regulatory floor elevation or flood-proofing level immediately after the lowest floor or flood-proofing is completed. Any lowest floor certification made relative to mean sea level shall be prepared by or under the direct supervision of a registered land surveyor or professional engineer and certified by same. When flood-proofing is utilized for non-residential structures, said certification shall be prepared by or under the direct supervision of a professional engineer or architect and certified by same.
Any work undertaken prior to submission of these certifications shall be at the permit holder's risk. The zoning administrator shall review the above-referenced certification data submitted. Deficiencies detected by such review shall be corrected by the permit holder immediately and prior to further progressive work being allowed to proceed. Failure to submit certification or failure to make said corrections required hereby shall be cause to issue a stop-work order for the project.
