Appendix A - ZONING[1]
Footnotes:
--- (1) ---
Editor's note— Printed herein is the city's zoning ordinance, being an ordinance adopted on August 8, 2007. Amendments are indicated by parenthetical history notes following amended provisions. The absence of a history note indicates that the provision remains unchanged from the original. Obvious misspellings have been corrected without notation. For stylistic purposes, a uniform system of headings and catchlines has been used. Additions made for clarity are indicated by brackets.

ARTICLE 1. - PREAMBLE
The Mayor and Council of the City of Watkinsville hereby declare it to be the purpose and intent of this regulation to establish a uniform procedure for the protection and enhancement of the city through the integration of land use, transportation, and natural resource elements to preserve and strengthen Watkinsville as a unique and vibrant community.
Suburban sprawl, strip commercial development, and in-fill development that is incompatible with surrounding development due to massing and scale when set into a traditional quasi-rural community with valuable historic structures such as Watkinsville, can produce an adverse effect on town character and quality of life. Conventional planning models and zoning ordinances can produce linear development, homogeneous architecture, large expanses of asphalt and a proliferation of signage.
Careful city-wide planning can allow new development and adaptive reuse to be successfully blended into the existing town without compromising the unique character of Watkinsville. The purpose of this Ordinance is to implement appropriate regulations based on the City of Watkinsville Concept Plan to protect the public health, safety and welfare and to protect Watkinsville and to direct Watkinsville's smart growth. The City also seeks to enhance open space conservation and provide for a mixed-use community and alternative transportation opportunities through a pedestrian/bicycle network.
The Mayor and Council recognize that segregated land uses spawn traffic congestion and promote sprawl and continued reliance on the automobile for transportation. The Council further recognizes that conventional subdivision development spawns roads that are not interconnected thus hampering opportunities for alternative transportation. In order to preserve Watkinsville's rural ambiance and historic elements, guidelines are necessary to prevent the continuation of segregated land uses, incompatible infill development, and continued reliance on the automobile. The primary goal of this Ordinance is to protect the public health, safety and welfare and to protect the character of the City while utilizing appropriate standards and criteria to direct future development in harmony with the City of Watkinsville. The objectives also include the safe and efficient use of the roadways, and the encouragement of quality, sensible development in harmony with the rural character and historic elements of Watkinsville.
A further purpose is limitation on large-footprint buildings and the parking lots associated therewith, which create vast impervious surfaces. The construction of new, smaller scale traditional buildings along the roadside and frontage can assist in achieving the desired effect by buffering views such as asphalt lots.
The City also seeks to enhance open space conservation and available neighborhood parks. Open space conservation would be achieved through a density-neutral approach and set aside of remaining undeveloped land through a conservation easement.
The City wishes to focus upon the compatibility of forms, scale, massing and materials such that new structures will conform to neighboring community features and standards, and more closely reflect the rural character and historic elements of the community. New structures should be reasonably harmonious with existing traditional buildings in Watkinsville and its rural surroundings. Height, mass and roof shape are important elements. The consideration of development that preserves the integrity of residential neighborhoods shall carry great weight. More specifically, see the City of Watkinsville Concept Plan, which is incorporated herein and made a part hereof by reference.
ARTICLE 2. - GENERAL PROVISIONS
The City of Watkinsville CONCEPT PLAN dated September 2006 is a citizen-endorsed urban design for the improvement of properties in Watkinsville. The CONCEPT PLAN establishes the guiding principles for this Zoning Ordinance and is incorporated by reference as if fully set out herein.

Chapter 2.01. - General provisions.
A.
Objectives.
1.
The purpose of this ordinance is to set forth standards and permissible uses designed to conserve and protect the natural, economic and scenic resources of Watkinsville, GA; health, aesthetics, morals, convenience, order, prosperity and general welfare; to provide adequate light and air; to protect natural resources; to prevent desirable living conditions and stability of neighborhoods; to facilitate the adequate provision of transportation, water, sewerage, schools, parks, and other public requirements by dividing Watkinsville, GA into districts of such size and shapes as may be best suited to carry out the purposes of the legislative act and of this ordinance.
B.
Legislative Authority.
1.
The MAYOR and COUNCIL of Watkinsville, Georgia, under the authority of Article IX, Section II, Paragraph IV of the Constitution of the State of Georgia and Chapter 66, Title 36 of the Official Code of Georgia Annotated [O.C.G.A. § 36-66-1 et seq.], and for the purpose of promoting the health, safety, morals, convenience, order, prosperity, or the general welfare of the city and designed to lessen congestion in the streets; to secure safety from fire, panic, and other dangers; to promote health and avoid overcrowding of land; to avoid undue concentration of population; to facilitate the adequate provision of transportation, water, sewerage, schools, parks, and other requirements, ordains and enacts into law the Zoning Ordinance for Watkinsville, Georgia.
C.
Method of Regulation.
1.
The MAYOR and COUNCIL of Watkinsville, Georgia, Georgia, as authorized by the Constitution of the State of Georgia, adopts zoning regulations for the following purposes: to define certain words used therein; to create zone boundaries; to regulate the location of trades, professions, businesses, and industries; to regulate the density in distribution of population; to provide for the gradual elimination of non-conforming uses of land, buildings and structures; to provide for the method of administration, amendment and enforcement; to provide for the imposition of penalties for violations; to repeal conflicting ordinances and resolutions; and for other purposes.
D.
Zoning Map.
1.
The boundaries of the Zoning Districts are hereby established as shown on the map entitled "The Official Zoning Map of Watkinsville, Georgia" (herein called "Zoning Map"), present in Council chambers and adopted on December 21, 2022. Said map is incorporated by reference and hereby made a part of this Ordinance and shall be available for public inspection in the office of the City Clerk. As evidence of its authenticity, the Zoning Map shall be signed by the Watkinsville, Georgia Mayor and attested to by the City Clerk.
E.
Interpretation of Zoning District Boundaries.
1.
Where uncertainty exists with respect to the location of the boundaries of any Zoning District in Watkinsville, Georgia, the following rules shall apply:
a.
Where a Zoning District boundary line is shown as approximately following a corporate limits line, a land lot line, a lot line or the center line of a street, a county road, a state highway or a railroad right-of-way, or such lines extended, then such lines shall be construed to be the Zoning District lines.
b.
Where a Zoning District boundary line is shown as being set back from a street, a county road, a state highway or a railroad right-of-way, and approximately parallel thereto, then such Zoning District boundary line shall be construed as being at the scaled distance from the center line of the street, county road, state highway or railroad right-of-way and as being parallel thereto.
c.
Where a Zoning District boundary line divides a lot, the location of the line shall be scaled distance from the Lot lines. In this situation, the requirements of the Zoning District in which the greater portion of the lot lines shall apply to the balance of the lot except that such extension shall not include any part of a lot line that lies more than 50 feet beyond the Zoning District boundary line.
d.
In the case of a through lot fronting on two approximately parallel streets, which is divided by a Zoning District boundary line paralleling in the streets, the restrictions of the Zoning District in which each frontage of the through lot lines shall apply to that portion of the through lot.
F.
Conformance with Ordinance.
1.
No BUILDING, structure, premises, or land shall be used or occupied and no building or part thereof shall be erected, extended, enlarged, constructed, moved, or altered except in conformity with this Ordinance.
G.
Lot Area and Lot Size.
1.
Unless acquired for public use, no LOT shall be reduced in size so that it does not comply with this Ordinance.
H.
Temporary Buildings.
1.
Temporary BUILDINGS used in conjunction with construction work only may be permitted in any non-residential Zoning District and shall be removed within thirty (30) days of the issuance of a Certificate of Occupancy.
2.
Temporary BUILDINGS used in conjunction with construction or sales only may be permitted in a residential Zoning District (AR or DR) for up to 18 months or completion of the project, whichever is sooner.
I.
Use, Occupancy and Erection.
1.
No BUILDING or structure or land shall hereafter be used or occupied and no building or structure or part thereof shall be erected, constructed, reconstructed, moved or altered except in conformity with these regulations.
J.
Building Height.
1.
No BUILDING or structure shall be erected, constructed, reconstructed or altered to:
a.
Exceed the height limits;
b.
Have narrower or smaller front, rear or side yards than herein required.
K.
Reduction in Lot Size.
1.
No lot shall be reduced in size so that lot width or depth, size of yards, density, or any other requirement of this Ordinance is not maintained. This limitation shall not apply when a portion of a lot is acquired for the public purpose.
L.
Yards and Other Spaces.
1.
No part of a yard required in connection with any building or use for the purpose of complying with these regulations shall be included as part of the yard required for another building, except as specifically provided herein.
M.
Only One Principal Building on a Lot.
1.
Only one principal building and its customary accessory buildings shall be permitted on any lot, except the MUO and CC and EC districts where more than one principal building is permitted.
N.
Street Frontage Requirement.
1.
No BUILDING or structure shall be erected on a LOT that does not abut for at least 25 feet upon and street which shall be either a public STREET, a publicly maintained STREET or an approved easement to a public street. The point of measurements for this requirement shall be the STREET right-of-way line.
O.
Approval for Business and Industrial Development of State Highways.
1.
For all business and industrial development fronting on a State highway, no building permit shall be issued until the approval of the Georgia Department of Transportation has been obtained by the applicant on entrances and exits, curb radii, drainage and other matters that are the appropriate concern of the Department and provided that no acceleration or deceleration lanes are required for development on South Main Street.
P.
City Approvals That Are Required.
1.
All City approvals that are required for the use of land and structures and for the location and operation of businesses and industries shall be obtained by the applicant and transmitted by him/her with his/her request for a building permit, a zoning amendment or a VARIANCE. Except as otherwise required by State law, no local action shall be taken and no public hearings shall be held until the above required approvals have been obtained by the applicant.
Q.
Substandard Lots of Record.
1.
Any lot of record existing at the time of the adoption or amendment of these regulations, may be used, subject to the following exceptions and modifications:
a.
Adjoining lots. When two or more adjoining lots of record with contiguous frontage are in one ownership at any time after the adoption or amendment of these regulations and such lots, individually, have an area or width that is less than is required by these regulations, then such contiguous lots shall be considered as a single lot or several lots of no less than the minimum width and area required in the Zoning District in which they are located.
b.
Individual lot NOT meeting minimum lot size requirements. Any lot of record existing at the time of adoption or amendment of these regulations which has an area, width or depth less than that required by these regulations may be used as a building site for a Detached Residential dwelling. In the case of such a lot, when it is not possible to provide the required side yards and at the same time build a DETACHED RESIDENTIAL dwelling that complies with this Ordinance, the Mayor and Council is authorized to grant a Variance reducing the side yards for such lot the minimum amount necessary, but in no case shall any side yard be less than five (5) feet.
R.
Building Orientation.
1.
All BUILDINGS, except ACCESSORY STRUCTURES, shall have their main entrance opening onto a STREET or COURT.
(Amd. of 12-21-2022 )
Chapter 2.02. - Minimum square footage of attached and detached dwellings.
A.
To promote public health, safety and general welfare, all ATTACHED and DETACHED DWELLINGS shall have a minimum floor area of 1,200 square feet, unless otherwise specified.
Chapter 2.03. - Non-conforming uses.
A.
Non-Conforming Buildings and Uses.
1.
The elimination of existing buildings and structures or uses that do not conform to this Zoning Ordinance is as much a subject of health, safety and general welfare as is the prevention of the establishment of new uses that would violate this Zoning Ordinance. It is also the intent of this Zoning Ordinance to administer the elimination of NON-CONFORMING USES, buildings, structures so as to avoid any unreasonable invasion of established private property rights. It is the intent of these regulations to permit these NON-CONFORMING USES, buildings and structures to continue until they are removed or cease, but not to encourage their survival, nor use them as grounds for adding other uses, structures, or characteristics or use prohibited elsewhere in the same district, nor to allow them to be enlarged, extended, or expanded unless expressly allowed herein below.
B.
Grandfathering.
1.
Any structure or active use of land lawfully existing at the time of the enactment of this Zoning Ordinance and its amendments, but not in conformity with its use Zoning Ordinances and provisions, may be continued subject to the following provisions:
a.
Unsafe Structures.
(1)
Any structure or portion thereof declared unsafe by the BUILDING INSPECTOR may be restored to a safe condition, provided the requirement of §2.03.3 are met.
b.
Alterations.
(1)
Any change in a lawfully existingNON-CONFORMING building, use, building site or yard area is subject to the following:
(2)
No lawfully existing NON-CONFORMING building can be structurally altered, except repairs and maintenance on the building, or installation of fixtures required by law, changing of interior partitions, or interior remodeling. Improvements on a lawfully existing NON-CONFORMING building shall not exceed 50 percent of the value of the building as reasonably determined by the Building Inspector.
(3)
No lawfully existing NON-CONFORMING building or lands, except those residential dwellings needing repairs on the building or installation of fixtures as required by law, can be substantially added to, moved, or extended in any manner unless such building or land is changed to conform to this Zoning Ordinance.
(4)
If a lawfully existing NON-CONFORMING building is moved, all NON-CONFORMING yard requirements, as defined in this Zoning Ordinance, must be eliminated.
(5)
Whenever an owner of a lawfully existing residential dwelling must make repairs on or installation of fixtures which will force the location of the future addition of the dwelling nearer the lot line than permitted, the addition to the dwelling shall be allowed to extend to the existing building line but no nearer the property line than any existing portion of the dwelling.
2.
Extension.
a.
A lawfully existing NON-CONFORMING use is restricted to the lot occupied by such use as the effective date of this Zoning Ordinance. A NON-CONFORMING use must not be extended to include either additional building or land, unless the owner applies for and is granted a variance, and in the case of a variance the applicant demonstrates hardship, no intent to increase the floor more than 10%, and compliance with the other requirements for variance under this ordinance.
3.
Restoration of Damaged Buildings.
a.
Unless otherwise specified, a lawfully existing NON-CONFORMING structure that is destroyed (damage equals or exceeds 75 percent of the structure's replacement value, as reasonably determined by the Building Inspector) through no intent of the owner, may not be reconstructed or restored to the same NON-CONFORMING use. However, a lawfully existing NON-CONFORMING structure that is non-conforming solely because of area and minimum yard requirements may be replaced regardless of extent of damage.
4.
Discontinuance.
a.
A lawfully existing NON-CONFORMING use which became such upon the adoption of this ordinance and which has been discontinued for a continuous period of 1 year, shall be presumed abandoned, and in the case of abandonment shall not be reestablished. Any future use shall be conformance with this Zoning Ordinance. Where government action impedes access to land, the time of any resulting discontinuance of a NON-CONFORMING use shall not be counted toward the time periods of this section.
5.
Code Enforcement.
a.
The Code Enforcement Officer shall have the authority and responsibility to administer and enforce the provisions of this Ordinance. The Code Enforcement Officer does not have the authority to take final action on applications or matters reserved for public hearings. The code enforcement officer is authorized to take the following actions to administer and enforce this ordinance including without limitation to make inspections, to issue permits, to reasonably interpret this ordinance following the spirit and intent thereof, to issue citations for violation of this ordinance, and to be heard in the Municipal Court. The City Clerk shall keep records of any and all permits, the Certificates of Occupancy issued, and all submitted subdivision plats, with notations of all special conditions involved. She/he shall file and safely keep copies of all sketches and plans submitted, and the same shall form a part of the records of the City and shall be made available as public records.
ARTICLE 3. - REGULATING PLAN

Chapter 3.01. - Zoning districts established.
The Zoning Ordinance establishes the following zoning districts within Watkinsville:
EXPAND
AR Attached Residential CA Cultural Arts Preservation District
CC Corridor Commercial DR Detached Residential
DT Downtown EC Employment Center
HM Historic Main Street MUO Mixed Use Office
PI Public Institutional PRC Parks, Recreation, & Conservation
SB Simonton Bridge Scenic Corridor SM South Main Scenic Corridor
  Chapter 3.02. - Concept plan.
A.
The City of Watkinsville CONCEPT PLAN, September 2006, and adopted by City Council on January 10, 2007, is adopted by reference as if fully set out herein and includes the FUTURE LAND USE MAP for the City of Watkinsville.
B.
The FUTURE LAND USE MAP shall reasonably relate to the City of Watkinsville Zoning Map.
C.
The CONCEPT PLAN defines 12 character areas within the city. Development characteristics for each district are identified in the CONCEPT PLAN. The 12 character areas are as follows:
1.
Attached Residential.
a.
This district is intended primarily for ATTACHED RESIDENTIAL units developed at a maximum of 6 dwelling units per acre, typically ROWHOUSE, TOWNHOUSE, or similar type development, but, not including DUPLEX development.
b.
This area may also be appropriate for small LOT single-family DETACHED RESIDENTIAL units (provided the development is compatible with surrounding land uses), including NEIGHBORHOOD PARKS, OPEN SPACE, or PLAYGROUNDS.
2.
Cultural Arts Preservation District.
a.
The primary focus of this overlay district is to preserve the Oconee Cultural Arts Preservation District Foundation (OCAF) as the focal point of the district.
b.
The underlying Downtown land use classification addresses the general principles of the desired development patterns in the area while the overlay district illustrates the desire to retain and enhance the aesthetic qualities of the area with an emphasis on scaling new and redevelopment projects with the OCAF facilities and the existing houses in the area.
c.
A key feature of development within the district is a focus on alternative modes of transportation creating a pleasant and unique pedestrian environment.
3.
Corridor Commercial.
a.
This district is intended primarily for LARGE-SCALE RETAIL development that is more AUTO-ORIENTED in nature, requiring increased visibility and road access.
b.
The designation targets retail, service and office development that is incompatible with the Downtown environment and require additional space to accommodate their activity.
4.
Detached Residential.
a.
This district is intended primarily for a variety of DETACHED RESIDENTIAL units providing a mix of housing types and values.
b.
This area is also appropriate for supportive land uses servicing the neighborhood population such as NEIGHBORHOOD PARKS, PLAYGROUNDS, FIRE STATIONS, DAY CARE CENTERS and DAY CARE HOMES, as part of the effort to create complete neighborhoods.
5.
Downtown.
a.
Downtown is intended to be the civic and commercial heart of Watkinsville with a focus on retail and services to provide for local needs. Office, civic, residential, entertainment, and recreational uses shall also be incorporated into the district.
6.
Employment Center.
a.
This district is intended primarily for LARGE-SCALE LIGHT INDUSTRIAL, wholesale, and office uses that may be land intensive, generate high consumer traffic, or create other impacts associated with manufacturing and production uses.
7.
Historic Main Street.
a.
This district is intended primarily for small-scale retail and office development that is pedestrian oriented in nature, and compatible with the historic character of the city.
b.
Residential uses may also be compatible within the district focusing on live-work and accessory units. DETACHED RESIDENTIAL may be allowable provided it retains the scale and character of the Historic Main Street area but the primary focus is on Commercial activities.
c.
The district is located along Main Street Watkinsville and comprises a number of HISTORIC STRUCTURES that contribute to the city's cultural resources. The city's vision, goals and objectives illustrate the desire to retain the "small-town feel" expressed by the Main Street Corridor.
8.
Mixed Use Office.
a.
The Mixed Use Office district is for a mix of offices, professional services, and residential uses designed at a pedestrian scale. Primary uses shall include office and professional activities that generate higher employment densities than retail sales and services while encouraging a creative mix of compatible residential uses. Residential uses are to higher density, ATTACHED RESIDENTIAL clustered along the edge of the district and should serve as a buffer between the more intense nonresidential uses and any adjacent stream and any contiguous lower intensity residential area.
9.
Public Institutional.
a.
This district represents the various civic functions scattered throughout the city. The concept map illustrates the existing and proposed locations of civic functions, including the following: county and city government offices, library, school, law enforcement, emergency services, churches, and other areas owned or operated by city or county government.
b.
The concept map has identified an area for expansion for large-scale county or municipal government uses adjacent to existing developments. Smaller scale government administration offices generating higher point of service demand should remain clustered downtown strengthening its location as a vibrant hub of the community.
10.
Parks, Recreation, Conservation.
a.
COMMUNITY PARKS, NEIGHBORHOOD PARKS, recreation, low-impact agriculture, and CONSERVATION AREAS are dedicated to passive or active recreation uses or for the preservation of ENVIRONMENTALLY SENSITIVE LANDS. Parks and recreation areas may be defined as COMMUNITY PARKS, NEIGHBORHOOD PARKS, or GREENSPACE, or LIMITED AGRICULTURE.
11.
Simonton Bridge Road.
a.
This residential corridor is located along a thoroughfare providing access to the downtown area exhibiting scenic qualities representative of the city's historic and natural character. The intent of the SIMONTON BRIDGE SCENIC CORRIDOR is the preservation of existing neighborhoods and HISTORIC STRUCTURES and natural resources. The district allows detached residential units and their customary accessory uses and structures.
12.
South Main Street Scenic Corridor.
a.
This corridor is located along a thoroughfare providing access to the downtown area exhibiting scenic qualities representative of the city's historic and natural character. The intent of the corridor is the preservation, rehabilitation, and adaptive reuse of the existing HISTORIC STRUCTURES as a part of all new or redevelopment projects and the preservation and restoration of the natural resources along the identified roadway.
b.
The corridor is intended primarily for residential uses while allowing limited small-scale, convenience-type retail sales and services as well as cafés and SMALL RESTAURANTS. Non- residential uses shall not be standalone uses and must be an accessory component of the principal residential use.
c.
In order to maintain the character of the corridor, development in this district shall not require the installation of acceleration or deceleration lanes.
ARTICLE 4. - DEFINITIONS

Chapter 4.01. - Defining words.
A.
Words used in this Zoning Ordinance have their normal dictionary meaning unless they are otherwise defined. Use of General Terms.
1.
Use of "shall" and "may."
2.
"Shall" means mandatory…The word "shall" means that the directives or requirements are mandatory and may not be waived or modified. If used within the text, "will," and "must," also mean "shall."
3.
"May" means permissive….The word "may" means that the directives or requirements are permissive and are imposed at the option of the decision-maker. "Can" and "should" also mean "may."
4.
Use of "and" and "or."
5.
"And" means that each item identified shall be required.
6.
"Or" means any combination of one or more of the identified items may be required.
B.
Definition sources for words not defined within the Zoning Ordinance.
1.
Development terms not defined within any Article of the Zoning Ordinance shall have the meaning contained within The New Illustrated Book of Development Definitions, by Moskowitz and Lindbloom, published by the Center for Urban Policy Research of Rutgers University, Piscataway, New Jersey.
2.
Terms not defined in any cited sources shall have the meaning as established in the current edition of the Webster's Unabridged Dictionary, published by Merriam-Webster, Inc.
C.
Definitions.
1.
Wherever a word is printed in ITALICIZED CAPITAL LETTERS, it is being used as defined herein.
ACCESSORY DWELLING UNIT. A separate, complete housekeeping unit with a separate entrance, kitchen, sleeping area, and full bathroom facilities, which is an attached or detached extension to an existing ATTACHED or DETACHED RESIDENTIAL structure.
ACCESSORY STRUCTURE/UNIT. A subordinate building, not including a garage, the use of which is incidental to, and reasonably related to, a main building on the same LOT or to the primary use of the property.
ADAPTIVE REUSE. The conversion of obsolescent or historic structure from its original or most recent use to a new use. For example, the conversion of a former school building to residential use or the conversion of an historic single family home to office use.
AESTHETIC FEATURE. A feature designed and/or installed to achieve a desirable appearance.
ALLEY. A public or private right-of-way for vehicles and pedestrians within a block that provides access to the rear of buildings, vehicle parking (e.g., garages), utility meters and recycling and garbage bins.
ALTERNATIVE TOWER STRUCTURE. Natural or man-made alternative design mounting STRUCTURES that camouflage or conceal the presence of antennas or telecommunication towers including but not limited to clock towers, bell towers, church steeples, light/power poles, electric transmission towers, and man-made trees (without accessory buildings/STRUCTURES).
APPLICANT. Any person who applies for a zoning action or development review and any attorney or other person representing or acting on behalf of a person who applies for a zoning action.
ARCHITECTURAL PLAN. A scale drawing of the structure or structure(s) including an elevation and site plan by a registered architect.
ART STUDIO. Work space for artists or artisans or hobbyists, including individuals practicing one of the fine arts or skilled in an applied art or craft, including the accessory sale of art produced on the premises.
ASSISTED LIVING. A special combination of housing, supportive services, personalized assistance, and health care designed to respond to the individual needs of those who need help with activities of daily living including meals, housekeeping, medication assistance, laundry, and regular check-ins. Such a facility includes a central or private kitchen, dining, recreational, and other facilities with separate bedrooms or living quarters.
ATTACHED RESIDENTIAL. A single-family dwelling unit, with a private entrance, which is part of a structure whose dwelling units are attached horizontally as a linear arrangement, and having a totally exposed front and rear wall to be used for access, light and ventilation. Also known as TOWNHOUSE, ROW HOUSE, MANSION FLAT or CONDOMINIUM but does not include a DUPLEX.
Figure 1. Attached Residential
AUDITORIUM. A building or structure designed or intended for use of the gathering of people as an audience to hear music, lectures, plays, and other presentations.
AUTO-ORIENTED. Development designed with an emphasis on customers who use autos to travel to the site, rather than those with an emphasis on pedestrian customers.
AWNING. A cantilevered, projected or suspended cover over the sidewalk portion of the STREET. Also, roof-like fabric coverings placed over the sidewalk, windows, or doors to provide protection from sun and rain. Permitted awning may be bubble or rectangular.
Figure 2. Bubble Awning
Figure 3. Rectangular Awning
BALCONY. An exterior platform attached to the front of a main building (on and forward it BUILD-TO-LINE). BALCONIES, where used, must be roofed and enclosed by balustrades (railings) and posts that extend up to the roof. BALCONIES aligned vertically on adjacent floors may post up to one another and share a single roof element. BALCONIES may not project within 5 feet of a property line.
BAY WINDOW. Generally, a U-shaped enclosure, extending the interior space of the building outward, beyond the exterior BUILD-TO-LINE.
BED AND BREAKFAST. An owner-occupied private residence that offers short term lodging accommodations in 6 or fewer rooms for rent and serves breakfasts at no extra cost to its lodgers.
BLOCK. An increment of land comprised of ALLEYS and LOTS circumscribed and not traversed by STREETS (PEDESTRIAN PATHWAYS excepted). BLOCKS shall be measured at the frontage LOT lines (along the BUILD-TO-LINE).
BLOCK CORNER. This refers to the outside corner of a BLOCK at the intersection of any two streets.
BONUS ROOM. A room in a house, located above the second story, which could be used as a multi-purpose area. A BONUS ROOM is not considered a STORY.
BLOCK. An increment of land comprised of ALLEYS and LOTS circumscribed and not traversed by STREETS (PEDESTRIAN PATHWAYS excepted). BLOCKS shall be measured at the frontage LOT lines (along the BUILD-TO-LINE).
BLOCK CORNER. This refers to the outside corner of a BLOCK at the intersection of any two streets.
BONUS ROOM. A room in a house, located above the second story, which could be used as a multi-purpose area. A BONUS ROOM is not considered a STORY.
BREWERY. An establishment approved by conditional use in which malt beverages are manufactured, including for consumption on premises, which is contiguous to or within 100 feet of an EATING ESTABLISHMENT, and not separated therefrom by a street or road (for safety reasons).
BUFFER. A stream, area of natural vegetation, or man-made construction that is intended to provide a visual and dimensional separation between different land uses.
BUILD-TO-LINE. The line to which the front facade of the BUILDING or PATIO is required to be built, stated as a distance behind the right-of-way.
BUILDABLE AREA. The area of a LOT that building(s) may occupy. The BUILDABLE AREA sets the limits of the building footprint now and in the future - additions to STRUCTURES must be within the designated area.
BUILDING. Any structure, either permanent or temporary for the support or shelter of any use or occupancy.
BUILDING, CORNER. This refers to the outside corner of a building where the primary BUILDING mass is within an angle less than 180 degrees.
BUILDING ENVELOPE. The three-dimensional area enclosed by the front, side, and rear SETBACKS and the maximum height.
BUILDING ENVELOPE STANDARD (BES). The area formed by the front, side and rear BUILDING SETBACK lines or BUILD-TO-LINE of a lot within which the principal building must be located.
BUILDING FACADE. The exterior side of a building which faces, and is most nearly parallel to a STREET. The facade shall include the entire building walls, including wall faces, PARAPETS, fascia, windows, doors, canopies, and visible roof structures of one complete elevation.
BUILDING INSPECTOR. The individual or office designated by the MAYOR and COUNCIL to serve as the BUILDING INSPECTOR for Watkinsville, GA.
BUSINESS ENTITY. Any corporation, partnership, limited partnership, firm, enterprise, franchise, association or trust.
CAMPAIGN CONTRIBUTION. A contribution as defined in paragraph (7) of O.C.G.A. § 21-5-3. (See, also, O.C.G.A. § 36-67A-1.) The term, as defined in the Georgia Code Annotated [Official Code of Georgia Annotated], as amended through the end of 2006, is as follows:
"Contribution" means a gift, subscription, membership, loan, forgiveness of debt, advance or deposit of money or anything of value conveyed or transferred for the purpose of influencing the nomination for election or election of any person for office, bringing about the recall of a public officer holding elective office or opposing the recall of a public officer holding elective office, or the influencing of voter approval or rejection of a proposed constitutional amendment, a state wide referendum, or a proposed question which is to appear on the ballot in this state or in a county or a municipal election in this state. The term specifically shall not include the value of personal services performed by persons who serve without compensation from any source and on a voluntary basis. The term "contribution" shall include other forms of payment made to candidates for office or who hold office when such fees and compensation made can be reasonably construed as a campaign contribution designed to encourage or influence a candidate or public officer holding elective office. The term "contribution" shall also encompass transactions wherein a qualifying fee required of the candidate is furnished or paid by anyone other than the candidate.
CAR SALES, PRIMARILY INDOOR SHOWROOM. The on-site, primarily indoor automobile storage and display of passenger vehicles for sale with the provision for the outside display of up to four vehicles. This use requires a conditional use permit under 14.12 and 14.13.
CATERING SERVICE. A service housed in a permanent structure providing meals or refreshments off-premises for public or private entertainment for a fee.
CEMETERY. Land use for the burial of the dead, including crematoriums, mausoleums, necessary sales, and maintenance facilities. Mortuaries shall be included when operated within the boundary of such cemetery.
CIVIC USE. Meeting halls, libraries; schools, police and fire stations, post offices (retail operations only, no primary distribution facilities), places of worship, museums, cultural, visual and performing art centers; government functions open to the public, and other community uses as determined by MAYOR and COUNCIL and amendments thereof.
CLUB. An organization and its premises catering exclusively to members and their guests for social, intellectual, recreational, or athletic purposes.
COMMERCIAL VEHICLES. Vehicle designed or used for commercial, business, industrial, office or institutional purposes, typically but not always with six or more wheels, that include without limitation the following vehicles:
Food trucks; garbage trucks; tractor-trailers; semi-trailers; cement-mixers or trucks; dump trucks; construction equipment; FedEx and UPS vans and similar; towing and recovery vehicles; vehicles and trailers greater than 20 feet in length, seven feet in height or eight feet in width (dimension measurements include any installed accessories such as ladder racks, cranes, compressors, hose reels, welders, etc.); dual rear tire 5500 (or 550) series trucks with chassis cab and commercial truck bed instead of standard pickup truck bed and displaying DOT #; power/utility company trucks; buses; vehicles carrying commercial freight in plain view; vehicles with three or more axles.
Commercial vehicles include "special mobile equipment": commercial vehicles not designed or used primarily for the transportation of persons or property and only incidentally operated or moved upon a highway, including, but not limited to, scoopmobiles, forklifts, ditch-digging apparatus, well-boring apparatus, and road construction and maintenance machinery such as asphalt graders, bituminous mixers, bucket loaders, tractors other than truck tractors, leveling graders, finishing machines, motor graders, road rollers, scarifiers, earth-moving carryalls and scrapers, power shovels and draglines, and self-propelled cranes and earth-moving equipment.
COMMUNITY CENTER. A meeting place where people living in the same community may carry on cultural, recreational, or social activities.
COMMUNITY PARK. A publicly owned park serving city residents and usually including restrooms and lighted outdoor recreation facilities and other facilities such as swimming pools, recreation centers, on-site parking, and group picnic areas.
CONCEPT PLAN. The "City of Watkinsville CONCEPT PLAN September 2006" as adopted January 10, 2007, and as may be amended.
CONDOMINIUM. A single dwelling unit in a multi-unit dwelling or structure, which is separately owned and which may be combined with an undivided interest in the common areas and facilities of the property.
CONSERVATION AREA. Any parcel or area of undeveloped land conserved in its natural state for perpetuity through deeds or other legal means.
CONTINUING CARE RETIREMENT COMMUNITY. A community planned and operated to provide a continuum of care from INDEPENDENT LIVING through NURSING HOME. The facilities allow individuals to live within the same community as their needs progress through the spectrum of care.
CONVENIENCE STORE. A small retail establishment that is designed and stocked to sell primarily prepackaged food items, but may have beverages, periodicals, and other household supplies to customers who purchased only a relatively few items (in contrast to a supermarket). It is designed to attract and depends upon a large volume of stop-and-go traffic. Illustrative examples of convenience stores are those operated by "7-11," "Golden Pantry," and "Kangaroo." Gas pumps are an accessory use to a convenience store.
CONVENIENCE STORE/GAS STATION. A parcel that contains a combination service station, convenience stores, and fast food restaurant in one structure located on one parcel.
CORNER LOT. A LOT abutting two or more public streets or city maintained roads at their intersection.
CORNICE. The CORNICE is the uppermost section of moldings just below the roof.
Figure 4. Cornice
COSMETOLOGY/SALON. See RETAIL, SMALL SCALE.
COUNTRY CLUB. A club with recreation facilities for members, their families, and invited guests.
COURT. Any open space, unobstructed from the ground to the sky that is bounded on not more than three sides by the exterior walls of one or more buildings.
Figure 5. Court—Inner Court and Outer Court
COURTYARD. An uncovered area partly or wholly enclosed by buildings or walls used for outdoor dining.
DAYCARE CENTER. A BUILDING that receives for group care seven or more children under 18 years of age for less than 24 hours per day without transfer of legal custody.
DAYCARE HOME. A private dwelling operated by any person who receives pay for supervision and care, fewer than 24 hours per day, without transfer of legal custody of three to six children under 18 years of age who are not related to such person and whose parents or guardians are not residents in the same private dwelling.
DETACHED RESIDENTIAL. A SITE-BUILT home that meets local BUILDING codes, that contains one dwelling unit per lot and designed for residential use.
DEVELOPMENT. The construction, reconstruction, conversion, structural alteration, relocation, or enlargement of any structure; any excavation or land disturbance; and any use or extension of the use of land.
DEVELOPMENT REVIEW. The review of applications for a project development plan.
DEVELOPMENT REVIEW APPLICATION. An application to the city that contains an ARCHITECTURAL PLAN, a LANDSCAPE PLAN, and/or a TRAFFIC IMPACT ANALYSIS.
DWELLING UNIT. A single unit providing complete, independent living facilities for one or more persons, including permanent provisions for living, sleeping, eating, cooking, and sanitation constructed to meet the International Building Code as adopted and as may be amended.
EATING ESTABLISHMENT is limited to a "restaurant" defined under the Alcohol Ordinance (section 4-1 of this Code), selling prepared food for consumption by the public on premises, with a full service kitchen, prepared to serve food every hour the establishment is open, and derives at least 65 percent of gross receipts annually from the sale of prepared food.
EDUCATIONAL FACILITIES, PRESCHOOL. A facility providing day care with educational services for children not yet attending elementary school.
ELECTRICAL SUBSTATION. An assemblage of equipment and appurtenant facilities designed for voltage transformation or voltage control of electricity. An electrical substation shall be secondary, supplementary, subordinate, and auxiliary to the main system.
ENTABLATURE. In classical architecture, the top of an Order, horizontally divided into cornice, frieze, and architrave, supported by a colonnade. Typical orders are Doric, Ionic, Corinthian, Composite, and Tuscan.
Figure 6. Entablature
ENVIRONMENTALLY SENSITIVE LANDS. Any land area containing one or more of the following: steep slopes; floodplain; soils having high water tables; highly erodible soils; lands incapable of meeting minimum percolation standards; stream corridors; aquifer recharge or discharge areas; wetlands; and scenic view corridors.
EXPRESSION LINE. An EXPRESSION LINE delineates the division between the first story and second story of every facade on all principal buildings.
Figure 7. Expression Line
FASCIA. A flat horizontal band or member between moldings, especially in a classical ENTABLATURE.
FENESTRATION. The design and placement of windows in a building. FENESTRATION is measured as glass area (excluding window frame elements with a dimension greater than one inch) for conditioned space and as open area for parking structures or other un-conditioned, enclosed space.
FINANCIAL INTEREST. All direct ownership interests of the total assets or capital stock of a BUSINESS ENTITY where such ownership interest is ten percent or more.
FULL CUT-OFF TYPE FIXTURE. A luminaire or light fixture that, by design of the housing, does not allow any light dispersion or direct glare to shine above a 90-degree horizontal plane from the base of the fixture. FULL CUT-OFF [TYPE] FIXTURES must be installed in a horizontal position as designed, or the purpose of the design is defeated, and glare will result.
Figure 8. Full Cut-Off Type Fixture
FUNERAL HOME OR MORTUARY. A building used for the preparation of the deceased for burial and display of the deceased and rituals connected therewith before burial or cremation. A funeral home includes a funeral chapel.
FUTURE LAND USE MAP. The future land use map for Watkinsville, Georgia, 2026, adopted January 10, 2007, and as may be amended.
GARAGE (ATTACHED). A portion of the principal building to which there is legal vehicular access from a public right-of-way, designed for the storage of vehicles or boats of the residents of the dwelling unit.
GARAGE (DETACHED). A detached structure which is accessory to a single detached dwelling unit and to which there is legal vehicular access from a public right-of-way, or easement designed for the storage of vehicles or boats of the residents of the dwelling unit and is constructed in the same architectural style, with the same colors and materials as the dwelling. (Amended 5/8/2013)
GARAGE (REPAIR). A building and premises designed or used for the purpose of service or commercial repair of motor vehicles. All body work and painting shall be conducted within fully enclosed buildings. The storage of junk, wrecked vehicles, dismantled parts or supplies shall be solely for the purpose of repairing motor vehicles and NOT as a salvage or junkyard business. The storage of junk, wrecked vehicles, dismantled parts or supplies shall not be visible beyond the premises.
GAS STATION. A facility limited to retail sales to the public of gasoline, motor oil, lubricants, motor fuels, travel aides, and minor automobile accessories. In addition, such a facility may provide minor vehicle servicing, minor repairs, and maintenance, including engine rebuilding but not reconditioning of motor vehicles, collision services such as body, frame, or fender straightening and repair, or overall painting of automobiles.
GREEN ROOF. The roof of a building that is partially or completely covered with vegetation and soil, or a growing medium, planted over a waterproofing membrane. The term does not include roofs which are merely colored green, as with green shingles. It also includes additional layers such as a root barrier and drainage and irrigation systems. Container gardens on roofs, where plants are maintained in pots, are not included.
GREENSPACE. Land and water, permanently protected from any type of development.
GREENWAY. A linear park that provides passive recreational opportunities, pedestrian and/or bicycle paths, and/or for the conservation of OPEN SPACE or natural areas, as indicated in the CONCEPT PLAN.
GROUND FLOOR/GROUND STORY. A level of a BUILDING, the floor which is located not more than six inches below and 48 inches above the sidewalk elevation at the front of the BUILDING or, if no sidewalk, the level of the BUILDING the floor of which is located not more than two feet below nor six feet above finished grade.
HARDSCAPE. Landscaping consisting of inanimate elements of landscaping, especially any masonry work or woodwork. For instance, stone walls, concrete or brick patios, tile paths, wooden decks and wooden arbors would all be considered part of the hardscape.
HEALTH DEPARTMENT. The Oconee County Health Department.
HIGH INTENSITY LIGHT. A laser source light, or any similar high intensity light, used for outdoor advertising or entertainment.
HISTORIC STRUCTURE. Any structure that is: (a) listed in the National Register of Historic Places or preliminarily determined by the Secretary of the Interior as meeting the requirements for individual listing in the National Register; (b) certified or preliminarily determined by the secretary of the interior as contributing to the historical significance of a registered historic district or a district preliminarily determined by the secretary to qualify as a registered historic district; (c) individually listed in the Georgia Register; (d) individually listed on a local inventory of historic places that has been certified by an approved state program as determined by the secretary of the interior; (e) is an outstanding example of a structure representative of its era; (f) is one of the few remaining examples of a past architectural style; (g) is associated with an event or persons of historic or cultural significance to the city, county, state, or region; (h) is a site of natural or aesthetic interest that is continuing to contribute to the cultural or historical development and heritage of the city, county, state, or the region.
HOME OCCUPATION. An occupation or profession conducted only by an occupant of a dwelling unit as a secondary use which is clearly incidental to the dwelling unit for residential purposes and is carried on wholly within the principal BUILDING or within a BUILDING accessory thereto, and does not change the residential character of the residence.
HOME OFFICE. An accessory use of a residential dwelling unit, where business or office activities are conducted, and only by an occupant of a dwelling unit as a secondary use which is clearly incidental to the dwelling unit for residential purposes and is carried on wholly within the principal BUILDING or within a BUILDING accessory thereto, and does not change the residential character of the residence. Typically, the office would be an ancillary use for a primary business or office use located elsewhere.
HOTEL (BOUTIQUE). Small, highly unique operations, unlike modern purpose built hotels, usually housed in HISTORIC STRUCTURES, in peaceful surroundings, with high standards of hospitality, and offering short-term lodging accommodation.
ICE BOX. An insulated metal chest into which bags of ice are placed for sale while payment for the bag(s) of ice is/are made inside the principal BUILDING. ICE BOXES are permitted outside only as an ancillary storage container to a grocery or CONVENIENCE STORE and must be located under a sheltered area attached to the principal BUILDING.
INDEPENDENT LIVING. A living arrangement that maximizes independence and self-determination, especially of disabled persons living in a community instead of in a medical facility. Core services provided by INDEPENDENT LIVING centers include: information and referral, independent living skills training, peer counseling, and individual and systems advocacy.
INDUSTRIAL SERVICES. Establishments providing the following non-polluting light industrial services including metal, machine, and welding shops; cabinetry and woodworking shops; furniture upholstery shops; and similar businesses engaging in custom fabrication and repair.
INFILL DEVELOPMENT. The development of a new BUILDING on scattered vacant sites in a built-up area.
INNER COURT. See "COURT."
INSTITUTIONAL USE. A nonprofit or quasi-public use, such as a religious institution, library, public or private school, hospital, or government-owned or government-operated structure or land used for public purpose.
LANDSCAPE PLAN. A scale drawing showing dimensions and details for vegetating a parcel subject to development.
LIGHT INDUSTRY. Establishments with 10,000 square feet or less of gross floor area otherwise meeting the definition of LIGHT INDUSTRY, LARGE-SCALE.
LIGHT INDUSTRY, LARGE-SCALE. Establishments with greater than 10,000 square feet gross floor area engaged in the non-polluting manufacture, predominantly from previously prepared materials, of finished products or parts including processing, fabrication, assembly, treatment, packaging, incidental storage, sales, or distribution of such products. Further, "light industrial" shall not include loud, dusty, polluting, odorous or other intensive industrial uses or those which tend to produce smoke, soot, or vibration, or those uses including without limitation mining and extracting industries, asphalt plants, concrete plants, cement plants, abattoirs, chicken houses, slaughterhouses, use or storage of flammable or explosive materials, use of radioactive materials, poisons, pesticides, or herbicides, or petrochemical industries, rubber refining, primary metal, or related or similar industries.
LIVE/WORK. A structure that is specifically built (or altered) to accommodate retail or office uses on the GROUND FLOOR and residential uses on the upper floors.
LOADING SPACE. A space within the principal use or on the same LOT that provides for standing, loading or unloading of trucks and other carriers.
LOT. A portion of, or parcel of land separate from other portions or parcels and having a separate tax parcel reference.
LOW-IMPACT AGRICULTURE. An accessory use to a residential use meeting the requirements of chapter 5.02.L.
LUMINESCENCE. The actual amount of visible light which is produced by a lamp as specified by the manufacturer.
MANSION FLAT. A structure which has the exterior appearance of a large house which contains two or more DWELLING UNITS with each DWELLING UNIT contained in its entirety on a single floor.
MAYOR AND COUNCIL. The MAYOR and COUNCIL of Watkinsville, GA.
MEMBER OF THE FAMILY. The spouse, mother, father, brother, sister, son, or daughter of a local government official.
MICROBLADING. Microblading of the eyebrow means a form of cosmetic tattoo artistry where ink is deposited superficially in the upper three layers of the epidermis using a handheld tool made up of needles known as a microblade to improve or create eyebrow definition, to cover gaps of lost or missing hair, to extend the natural eyebrow pattern, or to create a full construction if the eyebrows have little to no hair.
State Law reference— Definitions—Tattoo studios, O.C.G.A. § 31-40-1.
MINI WAREHOUSE. A BUILDING consisting of self-contained units for the storage of items.
MUNTINS. Wood strips that hold the panes of glass in a glazed door or window.
Figure 9. Muntin
MUSEUM. A room or BUILDING for exhibiting a collection of books, artistic, historical or scientific objects.
NATURAL AREA. Land and water that has substantially retained its natural character or land and water that, although altered in character, is important as habitat for plant, animal, or marine life, for the study of its natural features, or for enjoyment of its natural features.
NATURAL GRADE. The elevation of the ground level in its natural state, before construction, filling, or excavation.
NEIGHBORHOOD PARK OR PLAYGROUND. Neighborhood space, lawn, park or playground that is primarily unpaved. These shall not include active recreation STRUCTURES such as ball fields and courts, but may include PLAYGROUND equipment for children.
NEWSPAPER OR PRINTING ESTABLISHMENT. A commercial printing operation involving a process that is considered printing, imprinting, reproducing, or duplicating images and using printing methods including but not limited to offset printing, lithography, web offset, flexographic, and screen process printing.
NON-CONFORMING USE. A use or activity that was lawful and active prior to the adoption, revision or amendment of the zoning ordinance but that fails by reason of such adoption, revision, or amendment to conform to the present requirements of the zoning district.
NURSING HOME. A skilled nursing facility providing 24-hour medical nursing bed-care for persons requiring regular medical attention but excluding a facility providing surgical or emergency medical services and excluding a facility providing care for alcoholism, drug addiction, mental disease, or communicable disease.
OFF-STREET PARKING. An area exclusive of a public or private thoroughfare where motor vehicles may be stored for temporary, daily or overnight parking.
OFFICE, BUSINESS. Establishments providing direct services to consumers, such as insurance agencies, banks, real estate offices, medical offices, and commercial mailing facilities (but not including bulk mailing distribution centers or offices that are incidental and accessory to the business or sales activity that is the principal use).
OFFICE, CORPORATE. An establishment primarily providing internal office administration services as opposed to customer service in a single BUILDING or a campus setting; for example, the headquarters, regional offices or the administrative offices for a corporation. Generally, the majority of traffic comes from employees and not the general public.
OFFICE, PROFESSIONAL. Government office or the office of a member of a recognized profession in the following categories: architectural, engineering, planning, law, accounting, insurance, real estate, medical, dental, optical, or similar profession.
OPEN SPACE. Undeveloped land or water used for recreation, resource protection, or buffers.
OPERATOR means owner with 50 percent plus ownership.
OPPONENT. Any person who opposes a rezoning action or any attorney or other person representing or acting on behalf of a person who opposes a rezoning action.
OVERLAY DISTRICT. A district that applies supplementary regulations to land of a specific zoning district or land-use category.
PARAPET. A parapet is a low wall extending above a platform, terrace, or roof. Parapets are often decorative and extend the wall above the roof line.
Figure 10. Parapet hiding the sloping roof
PATIO. A level surface area directly adjacent to a principal BUILDING which has an average elevation of not more than 30 inches above a finished grade, usually made of concrete, brick, or other masonry material, without a roof, and, intended for outdoor lounging or dining. Includes COURTYARD.
PEDESTRIAN PATHWAY. Interconnecting paved ways that provide pedestrian and bicycle passage.
PERSONAL CARE HOME. A facility providing assistance with meals, dressing, movement, bathing, or other personal needs or maintenance, or general supervision of the physical and mental well-being of a person who is incapable of maintaining a private, independent residence, or who is incapable of managing his/her person.
PLANNED GROUP DWELLING. Two or more detached dwelling units located on a lot that is in single ownership having yards, courts or facilities in common.
PLANNING COMMISSION. Either the Oconee County PLANNING COMMISSION or the Watkinsville PLANNING COMMISSION, whichever is charged by the MAYOR and COUNCIL with the review and recommendation of applications under this Ordinance to the MAYOR and COUNCIL.
PORTRAIT PHOTOGRAPHY (PORTRAITURE). The capture by means of photography of the likeness of a person or a small group of people (a group portrait), in which the face and expression is predominant. The objective is to display the likeness, personality, and even the mood of the subject. Like other types of photography, the focus of the photograph is the person's face, although the entire body and the background may be included. A portrait is generally not a snapshot, but a composed image of a person in still position. A portrait often shows a person looking directly at the camera. Unlike many other photography styles, the subjects of portrait photography are often non-professional models. Family portraits commemorating special occasions, such as graduations or weddings, may be professionally produced or may be vernacular and are most often intended for private viewing rather than for public exhibition. However, many portraits are created for public display ranging from fine art portraiture, to commercial portraiture such as might be used to illustrate a company's annual report, to promotional portraiture such as might be found on a book jacket showing the author of the book. (Added 8/11/2010)
PRINCIPAL BUILDING. A BUILDING in which the primary use of the lot on which the BUILDING is located is conducted.
PULPWOOD OR LOG YARD. Areas where wood is hauled for temporary storage before transfer to trucks.
RECREATION CENTER/FACILITY. A facility dedicated for recreational purposes, to primarily serve the residents of the community. It may include indoor and/or outdoor facilities: club house, pool, tennis courts, basketball courts, gymnastics, skating, playgrounds, playing fields, and similar your and family oriented recreational facilities. (Added 1/14/2009)
RELIGIOUS INSTITUTION, COMMUNITY. A religious institution with a seating capacity of between 300 and 600 persons in the sanctuary or main activity area and additional gross floor area associated with religious institution offices, culinary, nursery and toiletry areas, and group meeting rooms.
RELIGIOUS INSTITUTION, MEGA (Also known as "mega-churches"). A large religious institution with a seating capacity of more than 600 persons in the sanctuary or main activity area and that may also include additional gross floor area for offices, culinary, nursery and toiletry areas, and group meeting rooms. Mega-churches often encompass one or more accessory uses including child-care, schools and after-school programs, overnight accommodations, retail sales, soup kitchens, thrift shops, community shelter, recreational facilities, and other such uses.
RELIGIOUS INSTITUTION, NEIGHBORHOOD. A religious institution with a seating capacity of less than 300 persons in the sanctuary or main activity area and additional gross floor area is limited to offices, culinary, nursery and toiletry areas, and group meeting rooms.
RESTAURANT, CAFE. An informal restaurant housed in a permanent structure primarily offering coffee, tea, and other beverages, and where light refreshments and limited menu meals may also be served to no more than 30 customers concurrently.
RESTAURANT, FINE. An establishment housed in a permanent structure where food and drink are prepared and served to 50 or more customers concurrently. Customer turnover rates are typically one hour or longer. Such establishments serve dinner but generally do not serve breakfast.
RESTAURANT, OUTDOOR CUSTOMER DINING AREA. Any outdoor dining area that is associated with a CAFE, FINE, SMALL or SPECIALTY RESTAURANT.
RESTAURANT, SMALL. An establishment housed in a permanent structure engaged in the preparation of food and beverages and containing no more than 2,000 gross square feet, characterized primarily by table service in non-disposable containers to no more than 40 customers concurrently.
RESTAURANT, SPECIALTY. An establishment housed in a permanent structure whose primary business is the on premise sale of a single specialty type of food or beverage that is not considered a complete meal (e.g., candy, coffee, or ice cream). The sale of other food, beverages, or merchandise is incidental to the sale of the specialty food or beverage.
RESTORATION. Returning a property as nearly as possible to its appearance at a given date in time.
RETAIL, LARGE SCALE. A store 5,000 square feet and above that provides goods directly to the consumer. This definition does not include bulk retail which involves a high volume of sales of products in a warehouse setting. Large scale retail is auto-oriented. (Amended 4/09/2008)
RETAIL, SMALL SCALE. A store 5,000 square feet or fewer gross floor area carrying goods for consumer or household use: excluding, however, animal sales or service; BUILDING materials and/or supplies, sales or rental. Food sales/groceries allowed with department of Agriculture or Oconee County Environmental Health Department approval when applicable. Outside food sales/markets are not allowed. (Amended 3/14/2012)
RIGHT-OF-WAY. That area, distinguished from an easement, which is owned in fee-simple by the city or other government, for the present or future use of utilities, roads, streets, and highways, together with its drainage facilities and other supporting uses and structures.
ROW HOUSE. A group of attached residences, separated by vertical fire walls, in which each residence has its own front and rear yards and has appropriated to it the entire BUILDING between the fire walls.
SCHOOL, PRIVATE. A private institution for the teaching of children or adults including primary and secondary schools, colleges, professional schools, dance schools, business schools, trade schools, art schools, and similar facilities.
SCHOOL, PUBLIC. A public institution for the teaching of children or adults including primary and secondary schools.
SENIOR LIVING. Living arrangements comprised of INDEPENDENT LIVING, ASSISTED LIVING, NURSING HOME, and/or CONTINUING CARE RETIREMENT COMMUNITY.
SERVICE ESTABLISHMENT. Any establishment whose primary activity is the provision of assistance, as opposed to products.
SETBACK. The minimum horizontal distance between the LOT and property RIGHT-OF-WAY line and the nearest front, side or rear line of the BUILDING, including terraces or any covered projections but excluding steps.
SHARED PARKING. The use of the same off-street parking spaces for two or more distinguishable uses where peak parking demand of the different uses where peak parking demand of the difference uses occur at different times or, where various uses are visited without moving the automobile; and, where the number of parking spaces is a net decrease from the combined total of each use's individual off-street parking requirements if required separately.
SIGHT DISTANCE TRIANGLE. The area of a CORNER LOT bounded by the RIGHT-OF-WAY line connecting the two points on the property lines 30 feet from the intersection of the property lines.
SITE-BUILT. A BUILDING constructed on-site with approved BUILDING materials, inspected periodically during construction, and constructed according to locally adopted BUILDING codes.
SPECIAL EVENT FACILITY. A residence meeting the criteria set out in chapter 10.02, hosting special events for compensation, operated by the owner with a 50 percent or larger ownership interest, under prescribed conditions of use.
STORY. That portion of a building measured from the NATURAL GRADE and included between the surface of any floor and the surface of the floor next above it, or if there is no floor above it, then the space between the floor and the ceiling next above it. A BONUS ROOM is not considered a STORY.
STREET. A public or private thoroughfare which affords ingress and egress to abutting property.
STREET FACADE. The portions of a facade which face and are most closely parallel to the STREET FRONTAGE.
STREET FRONTAGE. A property line which abuts a public right-of-way that provides public access to or visibility to the premises.
STREET LIGHT. Lighting on poles, with either underground or overhead service, along a street for purposes of illuminating public or private ways.
STREET TREES. Any tree located within the public RIGHT-OF-WAY or easement for vehicular access, or associated public utility easements.
SWIMMING POOL, PRIVATE. A swimming pool where access is restricted to its membership and their guests.
SWIMMING POOL, PUBLIC. A swimming pool to which the general public has access.
THROUGH LOT. A lot with frontage on two public streets and/or city maintained roads that does not intersect at a point abutting the property.
TOWNHOUSE. A single dwelling unit in a TOWNHOUSE group, located or capable of being located on a separate lot, and being separated from the adjoining dwelling unit by an approved wall extending from the foundation through the roof and structurally independent of the corresponding wall of the adjoining unit.
TRAFFIC IMPACT ANALYSIS. An analytical and informational document professionally prepared by a licensed professional traffic engineer or civil engineer in connection with a specific proposed development application that forecasts, describes, and suggests ways of off-setting the traffic effects of the proposed new activities with the city.
UPPER FLOOR RESIDENTIAL. A studio, one-bedroom, or MULTI-bedroom dwelling unit located on any floor other than the basement, ground or street level floor.
VARIANCE. A minimal relaxation or modification of the strict terms of the height, area, placement, SETBACK, YARD, BUFFER, landscape strip, parking or loading regulations as applied to specific property when, because of particular physical surroundings, shape, or topographical condition of the property, not due to the fault of the owner of said property, compliance would result in a particular hardship upon the owner, as distinguished from a mere inconvenience or a desire to make a profit.
VENDING MACHINE. A coin-operated device, which dispenses a product or service without an attendant.
VETERINARY CLINIC OR HOSPITAL. A facility maintained by or for the use of a licensed veterinarian in the diagnosis, treatment, or prevention of animal diseases where the animals are limited to dogs, cats, or other companion animals. The overnight care of animals is prohibited except when necessary in the medical treatment of the animal.
WALL PACK. A building-mounted luminaire installed for the purpose of lighting the adjacent ground areas, walkways, streets and/or parking lots.
WAREHOUSE. Storage, wholesale, and distribution of manufactured products, supplies, and equipment, excluding bulk storage of materials that are inflammable or explosive or that present hazards or conditions commonly recognized as offensive.
WHERE CLEARLY VISIBLE FROM THE STREET. A building element more than 30 feet behind the required BUILD-TO-LINE is by definition not clearly visible from the street. Also, common and/or party walls are by definition not clearly visible from the street.
WHOLESALE ESTABLISHMENT. An establishment primarily engaged in selling and/or distributing merchandise to retailers, to industrial, commercial, institutional, or professional business users, or to other wholesalers; or acting as agents or brokers and buying merchandise for, or selling merchandise to, such individuals or companies.
WHOLESALE ESTABLISHMENT WITH WAREHOUSE. The display, storage, and sale of goods to other firms for resale, as well as activities involving significant movement and storage of products or equipment, including warehousing.
XERISCAPE. Water- conserving, drought-tolerant landscaping.
YARD. An OPEN SPACE at grade between a BUILDING and the adjoining LOT lines, unoccupied and unobstructed by any portion of a structure from the ground upward. In measuring a YARD for the purpose of determining the width of a side YARD, the depth of a front YARD, or the depth of a rear YARD, the minimum horizontal distance between a lot line and the main BUILDING shall be used.
ZONING ADMINISTRATOR. The individual(s) or office or designee(s) assigned with the duty of administering the Zoning Ordinance within Watkinsville, Georgia.
(Amd. of 9-15-2021 , § 1; Amd. of 2-16-2022 , § 1; Amd. of 2-16-2022 , § 1)
ARTICLE 5. - BUILDING STANDARDS
The goal of this article is the creation of a healthy and vital public realm through good street space which is consistent with the traditional and predominant development patterns in the city. The BUILDING ENVELOPE standards set the basic parameters governing BUILDING construction, including the BUILDING ENVELOPE (in three dimensions) and certain required/permitted elements, such as balconies, stoops, and walls.

Chapter 5.01. - General guiding principles.
A.
BUILDINGS in some districts are aligned and close to the street as this is compatible with the community's existing design and will build on the city established character and identity.
B.
The street and contiguous areas together form a coherent space, with consistent BUILDING forms on both sides of the street. This consistency between BUILDINGS facing across the street contributes to a clear public space and community identity.
C.
BUILDINGS are to be designed for towns and cities, on an appropriate scale consistent with the historical and/or traditional building construction types of the city. Rather than being simply pushed closer together, as in many suburban developments, BUILDINGS must be designed for the surrounding environment of the city. Front facades and the majority of the windows should face the street, not toward the neighbors.
D.
Vehicle storage, garbage and mechanical equipment shall not be visible from the frontage street.
E.
Retail or office uses shall be on the GROUND FLOOR in specified districts. Retail and office uses shall provide a diversity of uses.
F.
Parking (not including on-street parking) and shared by multiple property owners/users when possible.
G.
HISTORIC STRUCTURES should be restored for adaptive reuse or, if restoration is not feasible, the historic elements of the structure should be incorporated in the redevelopment site.
H.
INFILL DEVELOPMENT compatible within the district is encouraged to further the goals of the CONCEPT PLAN.
I.
FOUNDATIONS. All new single-family detached homes in Subdivisions that have a Final Plat approved after January 1, 2023 shall be constructed with either crawlspace or basement foundations. This requirement shall not apply to the following:
(1)
Age-Restricted Active Adult (55 and Older) Communities.
(2)
Continuing Care Retirement Communities (CCRC).
(3)
Single-Family Detached homes in Subdivisions on undivided acreage tracts, or in Subdivisions having received a Final Plat prior to January 1, 2023, unless otherwise specified in a Development Agreement with the city.
(4)
Lots with existing predeveloped grades (as shown on the Land Disturbance Permit Application) with a maximum slope grade change of 5.0 percent in the building envelope.
Where raised slab foundations are allowed the slab shall be at least 2 feet above the finished grade. This requirement shall not apply to additions to an existing dwelling.
(Amd. of 12-21-2022 )
Chapter 5.02. - Building envelope standards.
The BUILDING ENVELOPE STANDARDS for each district are defined below.
A.
HISTORIC MAIN STREET. This district is located along Main Street and comprises a number of HISTORIC STRUCTURES that contribute to the city's downtown character. The district is intended primarily for small-scale retail and office development that is pedestrian-oriented and compatible with the historic character of the city. Development within the district should strive to retain and ADAPTIVELY REUSE existing STRUCTURES. Development within the district should retain and adaptively reuse existing structures pursuant to Article 12.
1.
Height Specifications.
a.
Building Height. PRINCIPAL BUILDINGS shall be no more than 36 feet in height as detailed in paragraphs b and c below.
b.
Ground Story Height.
(1)
Space at ground level is considered as the first STORY if it is six feet or more in height.
(2)
The GROUND STORY floor elevation shall be between 6 inches below and 48 inches above the sidewalk elevation at the front of the building. The maximum floor-to-floor STORY HEIGHT limit for the GROUND FLOOR is 16 feet.
c.
Upper Story Height.
(1)
The maximum floor-to-floor STORY HEIGHT limit for the section STORY cannot exceed 12 feet.
(2)
Space within a roof line that is entirely uninhabitable shall not be considered to be a STORY.
2.
Siting Specifications.
a.
Street Facade.
(1)
The STREET FACADE shall be built to not less than 75 percent of the overall required BUILD-TO-LINE. However, the GROUND FLOOR portions of the STREET FACADE within 7 feet of a BLOCK CORNER are exempt from this requirement in order to allow special corner treatment in these areas.
(2)
The STREET FACADE shall be composed as a simple plane (limited jogs (facade indentations or protrusions) less than 24 inches are considered a simple plane within this requirement) interrupted only by stoops, shop fronts, porches, and balconies (where permitted).
(3)
BUILDING FACADES shall be oriented parallel to the street. ForCORNER LOTS, BUILDING FACADES shall be oriented to the STREET with the greatest LOT frontage or the STREET where to which adjacent principal BUILDINGS are oriented.
b.
Buildable Area.
(1)
Buildings shall occupy only the area of the lot specified in the siting specifications of the BUILDING ENVELOPE standards as BUILDABLE AREA. No part of any BUILDING excepting overhanging eaves, AWNINGS or stoops shall encroach beyond the required BUILD-TO-LINE.
c.
Side Yard SETBACK.
(1)
There are no required side yard SETBACKS unless a side yard is contiguous to an existing single-family dwelling or a BUILDING initially constructed as a single-family dwelling, where a 10-foot SETBACK is required.
d.
Parking Facilities.
(1)
Residential STRUCTURES only; shall not face the front of the LOT, and are to be enclosed with overhead doors. DETACHED and ATTACHED GARAGES are permissible as long as such garage is constructed in the same architectural style, with the same colors and materials as the dwelling. EXCEPTIONS: Lots platted on or before May 8, 2013, that are too narrow or the shape of the lot is such that the request doesn't comply with the above requirements may apply for a variance. A variance request made under this exception may be approved by Mayor and Council. The submitted documents and justification will conform to requirements of Article 14 Administration, Chapter 14.05 and be submitted to the City Clerk and Code Enforcement Officer for review 30 days prior to the next scheduled Council Meeting. (Rev. 5/8/2013)
(2)
Commercial STRUCTURES or Commercial/Residential STRUCTURES: OFF-STREET PARKING shall meet the standards of Chapter 8.06.A.4.J and shall be set back 20 feet from the front property line and 10 feet from the side and rear property line.
(3)
Vehicle access between adjacent parking LOTS across property lines is required.
(4)
All nonresidential off-street parking shall be screened from abutting STREETS with a fence, wall or hedge at least 4 feet in height and meeting the standards of § 6.08.
(5)
Parking LOTS shall not have direct access to Main Street but instead shall be accessed from First Street or Water Street, as appropriate.
(6)
Circular drives are prohibited.
e.
Drive-Through Facilities.
(1)
Drive-through service windows shall be sited in the rear with access from either First Street or Water Street, as appropriate, so as not to interfere with pedestrian flow or surrounding uses.
f.
Corner Lots.
(1)
CORNER LOTS shall have STREET FRONTAGE on the primary STREET only. The side of the lot abutting the secondary street shall meet the side yard setback.
3.
Element Specifications.
a.
Awnings.
(1)
AWNINGS extending from the first STORY and facing the street must conform to the following BUILD-TO-LINE and must dimensions:
(a)
Depth - 5 feet minimum, but no closer than 2 feet to an existing curb.
(b)
Height - 8 feet minimum clear, including suspended signs.
(c)
Upper STORY AWNINGS shall meet the depth requirements of first STORY AWNINGS.
(d)
AWNINGS may occur forward of the required build-to-line and may encroach within the RIGHT-OF-WAY, but shall not interfere with any STREET LIGHTS or trees.
(e)
AWNINGS shall be made of canvas, vinyl or metal and in a color that is consistent with the overall color scheme of the facade. Solid colors or simple, muted-stripe patterns are appropriate. High-gloss or plasticized fabrics are prohibited. (Amended 4/9/2008)
(f)
AWNINGS shall be rectangular or bubble in form.
(g)
Figure 11 indicates typical cross-sections of AWNINGS and Figure 12 illustrates the proper use of AWNINGS.
b.
Front Porches.
(1)
Front porches are permitted only on BUILDINGS that are residential in character.
(2)
Front porches facing the street must have a minimum depth of 8 feet.
(3)
Front porches shall not be built forward of the required build-to-line and must be open, un-air conditioned parts of the BUILDING.
(4)
Figure 13 indicates typical proportions of front porches.
Figure 13. Front Porches
c.
Patios.
(1)
Patios are permitted on the front, side or rear of a building.
(2)
Patios facing the street must have a minimum depth of 5 feet.
(3)
Patios and the required screening shall not be built forward of the required BUILD-TO-LINE.
(4)
Patios, at the time of installation, must be screened from the public street with a visual barrier at least 4 feet wide and 3 feet high that shall be either an evergreen hedge or a combination of wall or decorative fence and evergreen plant material where the plant material is used to soften the visual impact of the wall.
(5)
Walls or fences shall be 4 feet high and shall meet the requirements of Chapter 6.08.
d.
Entries.
(1)
Front entries must be recessed and entry doors should be centered. However, if the building is on a corner lot, the front entry may be located on the corner rather than centered on the front facade.
(2)
Doors must be solid and well detailed, matching the materials, design and character of the display window framing. "Narrow line" aluminum doors are not permitted.
e.
Windows.
(1)
Window-to-Wall Proportion - Second stories must have a window to wall area proportion of 30 - 50 % that is smaller than that of GROUND FLOOR storefronts.
(2)
Window Openings - must be vertical or square in shape and compatible with window openings on existing buildings within the district. If square, windows and/or window panes must be vertical in shape.
(3)
Shaped Frames and Sills - must be used to enhance openings and add additional relief. They should be proportional to the glass area framed; e.g., a larger window should have thicker framing members.
(4)
MUNTINS - "true divided light" windows or sectional windows are recommended where a divided window design is desired; "snap-in" grilles or MUNTINS should not be used.
(5)
Replacement/Renovation - Wood windows must be replaced with wood windows of the same operating type (e.g., double-hung, casement, etc.; vinyl-covered wood windows are available for lower maintenance). Do not replace a double hung window with a horizontal sliding window.
(6)
Factory painted or fluorocoated to match the original; color anodized is also acceptable.
(7)
Similar in size and thickness to the original frame and MUNTINS.
4.
Use Specification Limitations. Allowable uses within the district are specified in § 13.01. However, limitation on some of those uses are specified below.
a.
GROUND FLOOR.
(1)
The GROUND FLOOR shall house uses as specified in §[Chapter] 13.01 that are pedestrian-oriented including access for upper STORY uses.
b.
Upper Floor.
(1)
Retail uses are permitted as specified in §[Chapter] 13.01 but only as an extension to the GROUND FLOOR use.
(2)
LIVE/WORK units are permitted provided the work unit is located on the GROUND FLOOR and the live unit is located on the upper floor.
(3)
Residential units are permitted provided there is an independent method of ingress and egress from the GROUND FLOOR use.
B.
Downtown District. This district is intended to be the civic and commercial heart of Watkinsville with a focus on retail and services to provide for local needs. BUILDINGS shall be designed to complement the pedestrian scale of the district and in accordance with the scale and character of the district.
1.
Height Specifications.
a.
Building Height. PRINCIPAL BUILDINGS shall be no more than 36 feet in height as detailed in paragraphs b and c below.
b.
Ground Story Height.
(1)
Space at ground level is considered as the first STORY if it is six feet or more in height.
(2)
The GROUND STORY floor elevation shall be between 6 inches below and 48 inches above the sidewalk elevation at the front of the building. The maximum floor-to-floor STORY HEIGHT limit for the GROUND FLOOR is 16 feet.
c.
Upper Story Height.
(1)
The maximum floor-to-floor STORY HEIGHT limit for the section STORY cannot exceed 12 feet.
(2)
Space within a roof line that is entirely uninhabitable shall not be considered to be a STORY.
2.
Siting Specifications.
a.
STREET FACADE.
(1)
The width of a BUILDING'S FACADE must be at least 50% of the LOT'S width. For adjoining LOTS under single control, for a single LOT with multiple BUILDINGS, and for CORNER LOTS, these percentages apply to the combination of LOT(S), BUILDING(S), and BUILDING FACADES.
(2)
BUILDING FACADES shall be oriented parallel to the STREET.
b.
BUILDABLE AREA.
(1)
BUILDINGS shall occupy only the area of the LOT specified in the siting specifications of the BUILDING ENVELOPE standards as BUILDABLE AREA. No part of any BUILDING except overhanging eaves, AWNINGS, or stoops shall encroach into the right-of-way beyond the required BUILD-TO-LINE.
c.
Side Yard SETBACK.
(1)
No side yard SETBACKS are required alongside property lines that abut non-residential LOTS; 20 feet is required adjacent to residential-only LOTS. Residential-only LOTS shall have a side yard SETBACK of 20 feet.
d.
CORNER LOTS.
(1)
CORNER LOTS shall be treated as having STREET FRONTAGE on the primary STREET only. The side of the lot abutting the secondary street shall meet the side yard setback (or required build-to-lines).
e.
THROUGH LOTS. For LOTS that front two parallel streets, minimum required rear yards SETBACKS is measured from the right-of-way of the street parallel to the front street.
(1)
For principal and ACCESSORY STRUCTURES, the minimum SETBACK is 20 feet from the right-of-way.
(2)
For off-street parking spaces, the minimum SETBACK is 15 feet from the right-of-way.
(3)
For commercial trash receptacles and their opaque visual barriers, the minimum SETBACK is 15 feet from the right-of-way.
f.
Rear Yards.
(1)
For rear Yards that are not located on THROUGH LOTS, the minimum SETBACK for principal and ACCESSORY STRUCTURES is 20 feet from the adjacent property line. (Revised 3/14/2012)
(2)
For commercial trash receptacles and their opaque visual barriers, the minimum SETBACK is 20 feet.
g.
Parking and Circulation Facilities.
(1)
ATTACHED RESIDENTIAL STRUCTURES only: garages shall not face the front of the LOT, and are to be enclosed with overhead doors. DETACHED and ATTACHED GARAGES are permissible as long as such garage is constructed in the same architectural style, with the same colors and materials as the dwelling. EXCEPTIONS: Lots platted on or before May 8, 2013, that are too narrow or the shape of the lot is such that the request doesn't comply with the above requirements may apply for a variance. A variance request made under this exception may be approved by Mayor and Council. The submitted documents and justification will conform to requirements of Article 14 Administration, Chapter 14.05, and be submitted to the City Clerk and Code Enforcement Office for review 30 days prior to the next scheduled Council Meeting. (Revised 5/8/2013)
(2)
Upper Floor Residential only: At least one surface parking space within at least 400 feet of the unit shall be reserved at all times for the residential unit.
(3)
All off-street parking shall be screened from abutting streets with a visual barrier at least 4 feet wide and 3 feet high that shall be either an evergreen hedge or a combination of wall or decorative fence and evergreen plant materials are used to soften the visual impact of the wall.
(4)
Commercial STRUCTURES or Commercial/Residential STRUCTURES: off-street parking shall meet the standards of Chapter 8.06.A.4.J and shall be set back 20 feet from the front property line and 10 feet from the side and rear property line.
(5)
All off-street parking shall be screened from abutting streets with a fence, wall, or hedge at least 4 feet in height and meeting the standards of §[Chapter] 6.08.
(6)
Vehicle access between adjacent parking LOTS across property lines is required.
(7)
Circular drives are prohibited.
3.
Element Specifications.
a.
Attached Residential Buildings.
(1)
In addition to the other requirements of this ordinance, unless the building contains MANSION FLATS, ATTACHED RESIDENTIAL BUILDINGS shall contain architectural features that clearly delineate one DWELLING UNIT from the adjacent unit. To ensure consistency with other ATTACHED RESIDENTIAL BUILDINGS in the district, no more than 5 DWELLING UNITS shall be permitted in one building.
(2)
Each unit shall be provided with a 2-car garage.
b.
AWNINGS.
(1)
AWNINGS extending from the first STORY and facing the street must conform to the following dimensions:
(a)
Depth- 5 feet minimum, but no closer than 2 feet to an existing curb.
(b)
Height - 8 feet minimum clear, including suspended signs.
(c)
Upper STORY AWNINGS shall meet the depth requirements of first STORY AWNINGS.
(d)
AWNINGS may occur forward of the required build-to line and may encroach within the RIGHT-OF-WAY, but shall not interfere with any STREET LIGHTS.
(e)
AWNINGS shall be made of canvas, vinyl or metal and in a color that is consistent with the overall color scheme of the facade. Solid colors or simple, muted-stripe patterns are appropriate. High-gloss or plasticized fabrics are prohibited (Adopted 4/9/2008)
(f)
AWNINGS shall be rectangular or bubble in form.
(g)
Figure 14 indicates typical cross-sections of AWNINGS and Figure 15 illustrates the proper use of AWNINGS.
Figure 14           Figure 15
c.
Porches.
(1)
Front porches are permitted only on BUILDINGS that are residential in character.
(2)
Front porches facing the street must have a minimum depth of 8 feet.
(3)
Front porches shall not be built forward of the required build-to line and must be open, un-air conditioned parts of the building.
(4)
Figure 16 indicates typical proportions of front porches.
Figure 16. Front Porches
d.
Patios.
(1)
Patios are permitted on the front or side of a BUILDING.
(2)
Patios facing the street must have a minimum depth of 8 feet.
(3)
Patios and the required screening shall not be built forward of the required BUILD-TO-LINE.
(4)
Patios must be screened from the public street with a visual barrier at least 4 feet wide and 3 feet high that shall be either an evergreen hedge or a combination of wall or decorative fence and evergreen plant material where the plant material is used to soften the visual impact of the wall.
(a)
Walls or fences shall be 4 feet high and shall meet the requirements of Chapter 5.08.
e.
Entries.
(1)
Front entries shall be recessed and entry doors shall be centered.
(2)
Doors - shall be solid and well detailed, matching the materials, design and character of the display window framing. "Narrow line" aluminum doors are not recommended.
f.
Windows.
(1)
Window-to-Wall Proportion - In general, second stories shall have a window to wall area proportion (typically 30 - 50%) that is smaller than that of GROUND FLOOR storefronts.
(2)
Window Openings - shall be vertical or square in shape; if square, windows and/or windowpanes shall be vertical in shape.
(3)
Shaped Frames and Sills - shall be used to enhance openings and add additional relief. They shall be proportional to the glass area framed; e.g., a larger window shall have thicker framing members.
(4)
MUNTINS - "true divided light" windows or sectional windows are recommended where a divided window design is desired; "snap-in" grilles or MUNTINS should not be used.
(5)
Replacement/Renovation - Wood windows should be replaced with wood windows of the same operating type (e.g., double-hung, casement, etc., vinyl-covered wood windows are available for lower maintenance). Do not replace a double hung window with a horizontal sliding window.
(6)
Factory painted - or flurocoated to match the original; color anodized is also acceptable.
(7)
Similar in size - and thickness to the original frame and MUNTINS.
4.
Use Specification Limitations. Allowable uses within the district are specified in 13.01. However, limitations on some of those uses are specified below.
a.
GROUND FLOOR.
(1)
The GROUND FLOOR shall house uses as specified in §[Chapter] 13.01 that are pedestrian-oriented as well as access for upper STORY uses.
b.
Upper Floor.
(1)
Retail uses are permitted as specified in §[Chapter] 13.01 but only as an extension to the GROUND FLOOR use.
(2)
Residential units are permitted provided there is an independent method of ingress and egress from the GROUND FLOOR use.
C.
South Main Street Scenic Corridor. This district is located along SOUTH MAIN STREET SCENIC CORRIDOR and comprises a number of HISTORIC STRUCTURES that contribute to the district's character. This district is a transition from the Downtown District to the Detached Residential District and is intended primarily for residential uses while allowing limited small-scale, convenience-type retail sales and services as well as cafés and restaurants. Retail uses cannot be stand-alone uses, must be incorporated in a residential unit, and must be an accessory component of the principal use of the property. At least 50 percent of the heated floor area must contain the residential dwelling unit. Development within the district should retain and adaptively reuse existing structures pursuant to Article 12.
1.
Height Specifications.
a.
BUILDING Height. PRINCIPAL BUILDINGS shall be no more than 36 feet in height in height as detailed in paragraphs b and c below.
b.
GROUND STORY Height.
(1)
Space at ground level is considered as the first STORY if it is six feet or more in height.
(2)
The GROUND STORY floor elevation shall be between 6 inches below and 48 inches above the sidewall elevation at the front of the building. The maximum floor-to- building STORY height for the GROUND FLOOR is 16 feet.
c.
Upper STORY HEIGHT.
(1)
The maximum floor-to-floor STORY HEIGHT limit for the section STORY cannot exceed 12 feet.
(2)
Space within a roof line that is entirely non-habitable shall not be considered to be a STORY.
2.
Siting Specifications.
a.
STREET FACADE.
(1)
The width of a BUILDING'S FACADE must be at least 40% of the lot's width.
(2)
BUILDING FACADES shall be oriented parallel to the STREET.
b.
BUILDABLE AREA.
(1)
The required BUILD-TO-LINE for new construction on a LOT with an existing residential structure shall be to the rear of the existing structure. The required BUILD-TO-LINE for new construction on a vacant LOT shall be between the minimum and maximum SETBACK of principal BUILDINGS within 300 feet of each side of the parcel.
c.
Side Yard SETBACK.
(1)
Side YARD SETBACK shall be a minimum of 10'.
d.
Rear Lot SETBACK.
(1)
For principal and ACCESSORY STRUCTURES, the minimum SETBACK is 15 feet from the right-of-way.
(2)
For commercial trash receptacles and their opaque visual barriers, the minimum SETBACK is 15 feet.
e.
Parking and Circulation Facilities Residential STRUCTURES only.
(1)
Parking shall be either in a DETACHED GARAGE or ATTACHED GARAGE. Such garages shall be no less than 200 square feet nor larger than 400 square feet, not facing the front of the LOT, and are to be enclosed with overheard doors. DETACHED and ATTACHED GARAGES are permissible as long as such garage is constructed in the same architectural style, with the same colors and materials as the dwelling. Exceptions: Lots platted on or before May 8, 2013, that are too narrow or the shape of the lot is such that the request doesn't comply with the above requirements may apply for a variance. A variance request made under this exception may be approved by Mayor and Council. The submitted documents and justification will conform to requirements of Article 14 Administration, Chapter 14.05 and be submitted to the City Clerk and Code Enforcement Officer for review 30 days prior to the next scheduled Council Meeting (Revised 5/8/2013)
(2)
All OFF-STREET PARKING shall be screened from abutting STREETS with a visual barrier at least 4 feet wide and 3 feet high that shall be either combination of wall or decorative fence and evergreen plant materials where the plant materials are used to soften the visual impact of the wall.
(3)
Commercial Structures or Commercial/Residential structures: OFF-STREET PARKING shall meet the standards of Chapter 8.06.A.4.J and shall be set back 20 feet from the front property line and 10 feet from the side and rear property line.
(4)
All OFF-STREET PARKING shall be screened from abutting STREETS with a fence, wall, or hedge at least 4 feet in height and meeting the standards of §[Chapter] 6.08.
(5)
Vehicle access between adjacent parking lots across property lines is required.
(6)
Circular drives are prohibited unless they are historically associated with the existing structure.
f.
CORNER LOTS.
(1)
CORNER LOTS shall be treated as having STREET FRONTAGE on the primary STREET only. The side of the lot abutting the secondary street shall meet the side yard setback (or required build-to lines).
3.
Element Specifications.
a.
AWNINGS.
(1)
AWNING extending from the first STORY and facing the street must conform to the following dimensions:
(a)
Depth - 5 feet minimum, but no closer than 2 feet to an existing curb.
(b)
Height - 8 feet minimum clear, including suspended signs.
(c)
Upper STORY AWNINGS shall meet the depth requirements of first STORY AWNINGS.
(d)
AWNING may occur forward of the build-to line and may encroach within the RIGHT-OF-WAY, but shall not interfere with any STREET LIGHTS.
(e)
AWNINGS shall be made of canvas, vinyl or metal and in a color that is consistent with the overall color scheme of the facade. Solid colors or simple, muted-stripe patterns are appropriate. High-gloss or plasticized fabrics are prohibited. (Amended 4/9/2008)
(f)
AWNINGS shall be rectangular in form.
(g)
Figure 17 indicates typical cross-sections of AWNINGS and Figure 18 illustrates the proper use of AWNINGS.
Figure 17.           Figure 18.
b.
Front Porches.
(1)
Front porches facing the street must have a minimum depth of 8 feet.
(2)
Front porches may not have a multi-STORY veranda and/or BALCONY above.
(3)
Front porches shall not be built forward of the build-to line and must be open, un-air conditioned parts of the BUILDING.
(4)
Figure 19 indicates typical proportions of front porches.
Figure 19. Front Porches
c.
Entries.
(1)
Front entries should be recessed and entry doors should be centered.
(2)
Doors - should be solid and well detailed. They should match the materials, design and character of the BUILDING FACADE window framing. "Narrow line" aluminum doors are not recommended.
4.
Use Specifications.
a.
Allowable uses within the district are specified in §[Chapter] 13.01. However, limitations on some of those uses are specified below.
b.
A BUSINESS ENTITY cannot be a standalone use but must be incorporated in a residential unit and must be an accessory component of the principal use of the property.
5.
Accessory Units.
a.
Accessory units shall be located behind the rear building line for the existing structure.
b.
Architectural elements and standards for the ACCESSORY UNIT shall be compatible with the principal structure.
D.
Simonton Bridge Scenic Corridor. This district is located along Simonton Bridge Road and comprises a number of HISTORIC STRUCTURES that contribute to the district's character. This district is a transition from the Downtown District to the detached residential District and is intended only for DETACHED RESIDENTIAL uses.
1.
Height Specifications.
a.
Building Height. PRINCIPAL BUILDINGS shall be no more than 36 feet in height as detailed in paragraphs b and c below.
b.
Each building shall be no more than 3 stories in height as specified in paragraphs c and d below.
c.
GROUND STORY HEIGHT.
(1)
Space at ground level is considered as the first STORY if it is six feet or more in height.
(2)
The GROUND STORY floor elevation shall be between 6 inches below and 48 inches above the sidewalk elevation at the floor of the building. The maximum floor-to-BUILDING STORY HEIGHT for the GROUND FLOOR is 16 feet.
d.
UpperSTORY HEIGHT.
(1)
The maximum floor-to-floor STORY HEIGHT limit for the STORY cannot exceed 12 feet each, excluding vaulted or cathedral ceilings.
(2)
Space within a roofline that is entirely non-habitable shall not be considered to be a STORY.
2.
Siting Specifications.
a.
STREET FACADE.
(1)
The width of a BUILDING'S facade must be at least 30% of the lot's width.
(2)
BUILDING facades shall be oriented parallel to the street.
b.
CORNER LOTS.
(1)
CORNER LOTS shall be treated as having STREET FRONTAGE on the primary STREET only. The side of the lot abutting the secondary street shall meet the side yard setback (or required build-to lines).
c.
BUILDABLE AREA.
(1)
The required BUILD-TO-LINE for new construction on a lot with an existing residential structure shall be to the rear of the existing structure. The required BUILD-TO-LINE for new construction on a vacant lot shall be between the minimum and maximum setback of buildings within 300 feet of each side of the parcel.
d.
Side Yard SETBACK.
(1)
Side yard SETBACK shall be a minimum of 30'.
e.
Rear Yard SETBACK.
(1)
For principal and ACCESSORY STRUCTURES, the minimum SETBACK is 40'.
f.
Parking and Circulation Facilities Residential STRUCTURES only.
(1)
Parking shall be either in a DETACHED GARAGE or an ATTACHED GARAGE. Such garages shall be no less than 200 square feet nor larger than 400 square feet, not facing the front of the LOT, and are to be enclosed with overhead doors. DETACHED and ATTACHED GARAGES are permissible as long as such garage is constructed in the same architectural style. With the same colors and materials as the dwelling. EXCEPTIONS: Lots platted on or before May 8, 2013, that are too narrow or the shape of the lot is such that the request doesn't comply with the above requirements may apply for a variance. A variance request made under this exception may be approved by Mayor and Council. The submitted documents and justification will conform to requirements of Article 14 Administration, Chapter 14.05 and be submitted to the City Clerk and Code Enforcement Officer for review 30 days prior to the next scheduled Council Meeting. (Revised 5/8/2013)
(2)
Circular drives are prohibited unless they are historically associated with the structure.
3.
Element Specifications.
a.
Front Porches.
(1)
Front porches facing the street must have a minimum depth of 8 feet.
(2)
Front porches shall not be built forward of the build-to line and must be open, un-air conditioned parts of the BUILDING.
(3)
Figure 20 indicates typical proportions of front porches.
Figure 20. Front Porches
4.
Accessory Units.
a.
Accessory units shall be located behind the rear Building line for the existing structure.
b.
Architectural elements and standards of the accessory unit shall be compatible with the principal structure.
c.
The square footage of accessory units shall not exceed 30% of the square footage of the GROUND FLOOR of the principal unit.
Figure 21. Unacceptable
E.
Corridor Commercial. This district is intended primarily for larger-scale commercial development that is more auto-oriented in nature, requiring increased visibility and road access. The district is intended to accommodate commercial uses requiring major road access and targets retail. Service, light industry, or office development that is incompatible with the Downtown environment and require additional space to accommodate their activity. Development in the district should conform to the scale and character of the district.
1.
Height Specifications.
a.
BUILDING Height. Principal BUILDING height is measured in stories. These parameters preserve appropriate street-space.
(1)
Maximum: 40 feet.
(2)
Minimum: 1 story.
b.
GROUND STORY HEIGHT.
(1)
Space at ground level is considered as the first STORY if it is six feet or more in height.
(2)
The GROUND STORY floor elevation shall be between 6 inches below and 48 inches above the sidewalk elevation at the front of the building. The maximum floor-to-BUILDING STORY HEIGHT for the GROUND FLOOR is 16 feet.
c.
Upper STORY HEIGHT.
(1)
The maximum floor-to-floor STORY HEIGHT limit for the section STORY cannot exceed 12 feet.
(2)
Space within a roof line that is entirely non-habitable shall not be considered to be a STORY.
2.
Architectural Elements. Buildings shall avoid long, monotonous, uninterrupted walls or roof planes on their visible FACADES. Building wall offsets, including projections, recesses, and changes in floor level, shall be used in order to add architectural interest and variety; relieve the visual effect of a single, long wall; and subdivide the wall into human scale proportions. Similarly, roofline offsets shall be provided to lend architectural interest and variety to the massing of a BUILDING and to relieve the effect of a single, long roof. For larger scale developments, the BUILDING facade shall create repetitive bays, or the facades shall be divided into an asymmetrical, yet balanced, composition. All sides of the building shall use materials consistent with those on the front if visible from public streets or neighboring properties, and should be carefully designed with similar detailing, comparable quality, and compatible materials.
Figure 22. Acceptable
3.
Facades.
a.
All visibly exposed FACADES should have:
(1)
A recognizable base course consisting of, but not limited to:
(a)
Thicker walls, ledges or sills;
(b)
Integrally textured materials such as stone or other masonry;
(c)
Integrally colored and patterned materials such as smooth finished stone or tile;
(d)
Lighter or darker colored materials, mullions, or panels.
(2)
A recognizable top consisting of, but not limited to:
(a)
CORNICE treatments, other than just colored stripes or bands, with integrally textured materials such as stone or other masonry or differently colored materials;
(b)
A roof overhang with brackets;
(c)
Stepped parapets;
(d)
A CORNICE capping the top of a building wall;
(e)
Visible false fronts are not permitted.
Figure 23. Visible False Front
4.
Siting Specifications.
a.
STREET FACADE.
(1)
Principal building facades shall be oriented parallel to the Street.
b.
BUILDABLE AREA.
(1)
The required BUILD-TO-LINE for new construction is 30'.
c.
Side Yard SETBACK.
(1)
Side yard SETBACK shall be a minimum of 10'.
d.
Rear Yard Setback.
(1)
For principal and ACCESSORY STRUCTURES, the minimum SETBACK is 15'.
(2)
For off-street parking spaces, the minimum SETBACK is 15'.
(3)
For commercial trash receptacles and their opaque visual barriers, the minimum SETBACK is 15'.
e.
Parking and Circulation Facilities.
(1)
Off-street parking shall, where practical unless otherwise certified by a professional engineer or architect, shall[sic] meet the requirements of chapter 8.06.A.3 and shall be no closer than 10 feet to an abutting street.
(2)
All off-street parking shall be screened from abutting STREETS with a visual barrier at least 4 feet wide and 3 feet high that shall be either an evergreen hedge or a combination of wall or decorative fence and evergreen plant material where the plant material is used to soften the visual impact of the wall.
(3)
Where a development application is for land located adjacent to an existing parking lot used for similar purposes, a vehicular connection between the parking lots shall be provided wherever possible. For development applications adjacent to vacant properties, the site shall be designed and constructed to provide for a future connection.
f.
Corridor Access.
(1)
Number.
(a)
Each parcel shall be permitted one driveway access to the Corridor. Such corridor access shall consist of either a single two-way driveway, or a paired driveway system where one driveway is designed and marked to accommodate only ingress traffic and other is designed and marked to accommodate only egress traffic.
(2)
Shared-Access.
(a)
Wherever possible, the permitted driveway access shall be provided by a shared-driveway.
(3)
Additional Driveways.
(a)
Additional driveways may be allowed when the need for such additional access is demonstrated by way of a supporting Traffic Impact Study, and such study finds that the additional driveway(s) will not create negative impacts on through-traffic flow. The Traffic Impact Study shall review and identify the minimum number of access points necessary to service the proposed development and shall include consideration of traffic generated by shared-access from adjacent development. Additional driveways permitted shall comply with the access-space standards below.
g.
Spacing.
EXPAND
Minimum Spacing Between Driveway
Posted Speed Minimum Spacing*
25 mph 125 feet
30 mph 125 feet
35 mph 150 feet
45 mph 230 feet
  * Driveway spacing shall be measured from the right-of-way of each driveway.
(1)
When the road frontage of a parcel is insufficient to meet the spacing standards of this district, and shared-access by way of a frontage road or rear access-service drive from an adjacent parcel is not available, the driveway shall be located and constructed along the property line furthest from the intersection to facilitate future shared-driveway use.
5.
Accessory Units.
a.
ACCESSORY UNITS shall be located behind the rear building line for the existing structure.
b.
Architectural elements and standards of the ACCESSORY UNIT shall be compatible with the principal structure.
c.
The square footage of an ACCESSORY UNIT shall not exceed 40% of the spare footage of the GROUND FLOOR of the principal unit.
F.
Employment Center. This district is intended primarily for larger-scale LIGHT INDUSTRY, wholesale, and office uses that may be land intensive, generate high consumer traffic, or create impacts associated with manufacturing and production uses. Light manufacturing should be limited to ensure compatibility with other employment uses with the district.
1.
Height Specifications.
a.
Building Height. Principal building height shall not exceed 40 feet and shall be a minimum of 1 STORY.
b.
GROUND STORY HEIGHT.
(1)
Space at ground level is considered as the first STORY if it is six feet or more in height.
(2)
The GROUND STORY floor elevation shall be between 6 inches below and 48 inches above the sidewalk elevation at the front of the building.
2.
Architectural Elements. All Sides of the building shall use materials consistent with those on the front if visible from public streets or neighboring properties, and should be carefully designed with similar detailing, comparable quality, and compatible materials.
3.
Siting Specifications.
a.
STREET FACADE.
(1)
Principal building facades shall be oriented parallel to the STREET.
b.
BUILDABLE AREA.
(1)
The required BUILD-TO-LINE for new construction is 50'.
c.
Side Yard SETBACK.
(1)
Side yard SETBACK shall be a minimum of 10'. Side YARD SETBACK shall be increased to 75' where the parcel abuts a residential district.
d.
Rear Yard SETBACK.
(1)
For principal and ACCESSORY STRUCTURES, the minimum SETBACK is 50'.
(2)
For off-street parking spaces, the minimum SETBACK is 50'.
(3)
For commercial trash receptacles and their opaque visual barriers, the minimum SETBACK is 50'.
(4)
Rear YARD SETBACK shall be increased to 75' where the parcel abuts a residential district.
e.
Corner Lot Setbacks.
(1)
CORNER LOTS shall be treated as having STREET FRONTAGE on the primary STREET only. The side of the lot abutting the secondary street shall meet the side yard setback (or required build-to-lines).
f.
Parking and Circulation Facilities.
(1)
Off-street parking shall, where practical unless otherwise certified by a professional engineer or architect, shall[sic] meet the requirements of chapter 8.06.A.3 and shall be no closer than 10 feet to an abutting street.
(2)
All off-street parking shall be screened from abutting streets with a visual barrier at least 4 feet wide and 3 feet high that shall be either an evergreen hedge or a combination of wall or decorative fence and evergreen plant material where the plant material is used to soften the visual impact of the wall.
(3)
Where a development application is for land located adjacent to an existing parking lot used for similar purposes, a vehicular connection between the parking LOTS shall be provided wherever possible. For development applications adjacent to vacant properties, the site shall be designed and constructed to provide for a future connection.
g.
Loading/Unloading Areas.
(1)
Loading and unloading areas shall be placed to the side or the rear of the principal structure.
(2)
Areas shall be screened from public STREETS and adjacent parcels with 8 foot tall opaque fence and/or evergreen hedge that will grow 8 feet tall in 3 years.
h.
Corridor Access.
(1)
Number.
(a)
Each parcel shall be permitted one driveway access to the Corridor. Such corridor access shall consist of either a single two-way driveway, or a paired driveway system where one driveway is designed and marked to accommodate only ingress traffic and the other is designed and marked to accommodate only egress traffic.
(2)
Shared-Access.
(a)
Wherever possible, the permitted driveway access shall be provided by a shared-driveway or service-drive.
(3)
Additional Driveways.
(a)
Additional driveways may be allowed when the need for such additional access is demonstrated by way of a supporting Traffic Impact Study, and such study finds that the additional driveway(s) will not create negative impacts on through-traffic flow. The Traffic Impact Study shall review and identify the minimum number of access points necessary to service the proposed development and shall include consideration of traffic generated by shared-access from adjacent development.
(b)
Additional driveways permitted shall comply with the access-space standards below.
EXPAND
Minimum Spacing Between Driveway
Posted Speed Minimum Driveway Spacing*
25 mph 125 feet
30 mph 125 feet
35 mph 150 feet
45 mph 230 feet
  * Driveway spacing shall be measured from the right-of-way of each driveway
(4)
Accessory Units.
a.
ACCESSORY UNITS shall be located behind the rear building line for the existing structure.
b.
Architectural elements and standards of the ACCESSORY UNIT shall be consistent with the principal structure.
c.
The square footage of an ACCESSORY UNIT shall not exceed 20% of the spare footage of the GROUND FLOOR of the principal unit.
G.
Cultural Arts Preservation District. This is an OVERLAY DISTRICT intended to preserve the Oconee Cultural Arts Foundation (OCAF) as the focal point of the district. The underlying Downtown District addresses allowable uses and the general principles of development patterns in the district; however, this OVERLAY DISTRICT further regulates development patterns within the district for the purpose of retaining and enhancing the aesthetic qualities of the area with an emphasis on the scale of new and re-development projects with OCAF facilities and existing residential dwellings in the district. Development within this district should strive to retain and adaptively reuse existingSTRUCTURES.
1.
Height Specifications.
a.
Building Height. PRINCIPAL BUILDINGS shall be no more than 36 feet in height as detailed in paragraphs b and c below.
b.
GROUND STORY HEIGHT.
(1)
Space at ground level is considered as the first STORY if it is six feet or more in height.
(2)
The GROUND STORY floor elevation shall be between 6 inches below and 48 inches above the sidewalk elevation at the front of the building.
(3)
The maximum floor-to-floor STORY HEIGHT limit for the GROUND FLOOR is 16 feet.
c.
UPPER FLOOR.
(1)
The maximum floor-to-floor STORY HEIGHT limit for the second STORY cannot exceed 12 feet.
(2)
Space within a roofline that is entirely non-habitable shall not be considered to be a STORY.
d.
Within the OVERLAY DISTRICT, new construction should be consistent with the heights of adjacent and nearby buildings.
2.
Siting Specifications.
a.
STREET FACADE.
(1)
Building FACADES shall be oriented parallel to the street.
(2)
The width of BUILDING'S facade must be no more than 60% of the lot's width.
b.
Corner Lots.
(1)
CORNER LOTS shall be treated as having STREET FRONTAGE on the primary STREET only. The side of the LOT abutting the secondary STREET shall meet the side YARD SETBACK (or required build-to lines).
c.
BUILDABLE AREA.
(1)
The required BUILD-TO-LINE for new construction on a lot with an existing principal structure shall be to the rear of the principal structure. The required BUILD-TO-LINE for new construction on a vacant lot shall be between the minimum and maximum SETBACK of buildings within the district that are within 300' of each side of the parcel.
d.
Side Yard SETBACK.
(1)
Side yard SETBACK shall be a minimum of 10'.
e.
Corner Lots.
(1)
CORNER LOTS shall be treated as having STREET FRONTAGE on the primary STREET only. The side of the lot abutting the secondary street shall meet the side yard setback (or required built-to lines).
f.
Rear Yards. The minimum SETBACK is 15 feet.
g.
Parking and Circulation Facilities.
(1)
Off-street parking shall be in the rear yard of the principal building and never closer than 10 feet to any property line that abuts a street.
(2)
All off-street parking shall be screened from abutting streets with a fence, wall, or hedge at least 4 feet in height, and meeting the standards of §[Chapter] 6.08.
(3)
Residential STRUCTURE. Parking shall be either in a DETACHED GARAGE or ATTACHED GARAGE. Such garages shall be no less than 200 square feet nor larger than 400 square feet, not facing the front of the LOT, and are to be enclosed with overhead doors. DETACHED and ATTACHED GARAGES are permissible as long as such garage is constructed in the same architectural style, with the same colors and materials as the dwelling. EXCEPTIONS: Lots platted on or before May 8, 2013, that are too narrow or the shape of the lot is such that the request doesn't comply with the above requirements may apply for a variance. A variance request made under this exception may be approved by Mayor and Council. The submitted documents and justification will conform to requirements of Article 14 Administration, Chapter 14.05 and be submitted to the City Clerk and Code Enforcement Officer for review 30 days prior to the next scheduled Council Meeting. (Revised 5/8/2013)
3.
Element Specifications.
a.
Residential Character.
(1)
All buildings within this OVERLAY DISTRICT shall be single-family residential in character and shall be consistent in form and massing with existing residential STRUCTURES.
b.
FRONT PORCHES.
(1)
Front porches facing the street must have a minimum depth of 8 feet.
(2)
Front porches shall not be built forward of the build-to line.
c.
Entries.
(1)
Front entries should be recessed and entry doors should be centered.
(2)
Doors should be substantial and well detailed. They should match the materials, design and character of the display window framing. "Narrow line" aluminum doors are not recommended.
4.
Accessory Units.
a.
ACCESSORY UNITS shall be located behind the rear building line for the existing structure.
b.
Architectural Elements and standards of the accessory unit shall be compatible with the principal structure.
H.
Mixed Use Office. This district is intended to allow for a mix of offices, professional services, and residential uses designed at a pedestrian scale. Primary uses shall include office and professional activities that generate higher employment densities than retail sales and services while encouraging a creative mix of compatible residential uses. Residential uses should be limited to higher density attached units clustered along the edge of the district and should serve as a buffer between the more intense non-residential uses and the stream.
1.
Height Specifications.
a.
Building Height. PRINCIPAL BUILDINGS shall be no more than 40 feet in height as detailed in paragraphs b and c below.
b.
GROUND STORY HEIGHT.
(1)
Space at ground level is considered as the first STORY if it is six feet or more in height.
(2)
TheGROUND STORY floor elevation shall be between 6 inches below and 48 inches above the sidewalk elevation at the front of the building.
(3)
The maximum floor-to-building STORY HEIGHT for the GROUND FLOOR is 16 feet.
c.
Upper STORY HEIGHT.
(1)
The height of each upper STORY floor, measured floor-to-floor cannot exceed 12 feet excluding vaulted or cathedral ceilings.
(2)
Space within a roof line that is entirely non-habitable shall not be considered to be a STORY.
d[2].
Siting Specifications.
e[a].
STREET FAÇADE,
(1)
The STREET FACADE shall be built to not less than 75 percent of the width of the overall required BUILD-TO-LINE. However, the GROUND FLOOR portions of the STREET FACADE within 7 feet of a lot corner are exempt from this requirement in order to allow special corner treatment in these areas.
(2)
STREET FACADES shall be composed as a simple plane (limited jogs less than 24 inches are considered a simple plane within this requirement) interrupted only by porches, stoops, by windows, office window fronts, and balconies.
(3)
BUILDING facades shall be parallel to the street.
f[b].
BUILDABLE AREA,
(1)
Buildings shall occupy only the area of the lot specified in the siting specifications of the BUILDING ENVELOPE standards as BUILDABLE AREA. No part of any building excepting balconies, shall encroach into the right-of-way beyond the required BUILD-TO-LINE. The minimum OPEN SPACE shall comprise at least 15% of the total BUILDABLE AREA and can be located nowhere within the BUILDABLE AREA of the site.
g[c].
Side Yard SETBACK,
(1)
Side yard SETBACK shall be a minimum of 30 feet.
h[d].
Garage and Parking Entrances.
(1)
Garage/parking entrances shall be no closer than 50 feet from any BUILDING CORNER or 100 feet from any BLOCK CORNER, except where otherwise designated.
(2)
Designated garage entries and ALLEYS shall be the sole means of automobile access to a site.
(3)
Garage doors shall not face (be at an angle of less than 90 degrees from the required BUILD-TO-LINE or right-of-way) the required BUILD-TO-LINE. Vehicle parking areas (except where a street wall exists or parking is enclosed within an ancillary BUILDING) on private property shall not be located within 25 feet of the required BUILD-TO-LINE. These requirements are not applicable to on-street parallel parking.
i[e].
ALLEYS.
(1)
On sites with no ALLEY access, there shall be a 15' SETBACK from the rear lot line for buildings and parking.
j[f].
CORNER LOTS.
(1)
CORNER LOTS shall be treated as having STREET FRONTAGE on the primary STREET only. The side of the LOT abutting the secondary street shall meet the side yard setback (or required build-to-lines).
k[g].
Parking and Circulation Facilities.
(1)
All off-street parking shall be screened from abutting streets with a visual barrier at least 4 feet wide and 3 feet high that shall be either an evergreen hedge or a combination of wall or decorative fence and evergreen plant materials where the plant material is used to soften the visual impact of the wall.
(2)
Where there is one principal building on the site, off-street surface parking shall be to the rear of the non-residential building. Where there are several principal buildings on the site, off-street surface parking shall be to the rear of the principal building parallel to the public street.
(3)
Where there is a single principal building, off-street parking shall be screened from abutting streets with a fence, wall, or hedge at least 4 feet in height and meeting the standards of §[Chapter] 6.08.
2[3].
Element Specifications.
a.
Residential Buildings.
(1)
Each residential unit shall be provided 2 parking spaces in a non-front loading garage.
b.
Ground Story Windows.
(1)
The GROUND STORY facade shall have between 50 percent and 75 percent FENESTRATION (measured as a percentage of the facade that is between the ceiling for the GROUND STORY and the finished floor). AWNINGS and overhangs are encouraged (except where otherwise designated by this ordinance).
c.
Upper Story Windows.
(1)
Upper STORY facades shall have between 30 percent and 50 percent FENESTRATION (measured for each STORY as a percentage of the facade that is between the ceiling for that STORY and the finished floor for the same STORY).
d.
AWNINGS.
(1)
AWNINGS extending from the first STORY and facing the street must conform to the following dimensions:
(a)
Depth - 5 feet minimum, but no closer than 2 feet to an existing curb.
(b)
Height - 8 feet minimum clear, including suspended signs.
(c)
Upper STORY AWNINGS shall meet the depth requirement of first STORY AWNINGS.
(d)
AWNINGS may occur forward of the build-to line and may encroach within the RIGHT-OF-WAY, but shall not interfere with any STREET LIGHTS or existing trees.
(e)
AWNINGS shall be made of canvas, vinyl or metal and in a color that is consistent with the overall color scheme of the facade. Solid colors or simple, muted-stripe patterns are appropriate. High-gloss or plasticized fabrics are prohibited. (Amended 4/9/2008)
(f)
AWNINGS shall be rectangular in form.
(g)
Figure 25 indicates typical cross-sections of AWNINGS and Figure 26 illustrates the proper use of AWNINGS.
Figure 25.           Figure 26.
e.
Front Porches.
(1)
Front porches facing the street must have a minimum depth of 8 feet.
(2)
Front porches shall not be built forward of the build-to line and must be open, un-air conditioned parts of the building.
(3)
Figure 27 indicates typical proportions of front porches.
Figure 27. Front Porches
f.
Entries.
(1)
Front entries should be recessed and entry doors should be centered.
(2)
Doors - should be solid and well detailed. They should match the materials, design and character of the display window framing. "Narrow line" aluminum doors are not recommended.
g.
Windows.
(1)
Window Openings - should be vertical or square in shape; if square, windows and/or window panes should be vertical in shape.
(2)
Shaped Frames and Sills - should be used to enhance openings and add additional relief. They should be proportional to the glass area framed; e.g., a larger window should have thicker framing members.
(3)
MUNTINS - "true divided light" windows or sectional windows are recommended where a divided window design is desired; "snap-in" grilles or MUNTINS should not be used.
3[4].
Use Specifications. Allowable uses within the district are specified in §[Chapter] 13.01. However, limitations on some of those uses specified below.
a.
GROUND FLOOR.
(1)
The GROUND FLOOR shall provide access to upper STORY uses.
(2)
There shall be functioning entry door(s) along the STREET at intervals not greater than 30 feet within any site.
b.
Upper Floor.
(1)
Professional offices, professional services, and retail are permitted both as an extension of the GROUND STORY use and as an independent upper STORY use.
c.
Attached Residential.
(1)
ATTACHED RESIDENTIAL is permitted only along the edge of the district and shall serve as a buffer between the non-residential uses and any stream.
(2)
There are no density limitations: however, the ATTACHED RESIDENTIAL development should be in character with the City and should not exceed 40% of the total square footage of the total development.
I.
Detached Residential. This district is intended primarily for a variety of detached single-family units providing a mix of housing types and values. This area is also appropriate for supportive land uses servicing the neighborhood population such as parks, PLAYGROUNDS, fire stations, and childcare centers, as part of the effort to complete neighborhoods.
1.
Height Specifications.
a.
Building Height. Principal building height is measured in stories. These parameters preserve appropriate street space.
b.
Each building shall be a maximum of 35 feet in height as measured from the NATURAL GRADE.
c.
GROUND STORY HEIGHT.
(1)
Space at ground level is considered as the first STORY if it is six feet or more in height.
d.
Upper STORY HEIGHT.
(1)
Space within a roof line that is entirely non-habitable shall not be considered to be a STORY.
2.
Siting Specifications.
a.
Street Facade.
(1)
Building FACADES shall be oriented parallel to the street.
b.
BUILDABLE AREA.
(1)
The required BUILD-TO-LINE for a new principal dwelling shall be between the minimum and maximum SETBACK of BUILDINGS within 300' of each side of the parcel.
(2)
The required BUILD-TO-LINE for an addition to an existing residential structure shall not be forward of the existing structure building line.
(3)
The required BUILD-TO-LINE for ACCESSORY STRUCTURES shall be to the rear of the principal dwelling.
(4)
Side Yard SETBACK.
(a)
Side YARD SETBACK shall be a minimum of 10'.
(5)
Rear Lot SETBACK.
(a)
For principal and ACCESSORY structures, the minimum SETBACK is 15 feet from the adjacent property line. (Revised 3/14/2012)
c.
Parking and Circulation Facilities.
(1)
Parking shall be either in a DETACHED GARAGE or ATTACHED GARAGE. Such garages shall be no less than 200 square feet nor larger than 400 square feet, not facing the front of the LOT, and are to be enclosed with overhead doors. DETACHED and ATTACHED GARAGES are permissible as long as such garage is constructed in the same architectural style, with the same colors and materials as the dwelling. EXCEPTIONS: Lots platted on or before May 8, 2013, that are too narrow or the shape of the lot is such that the request doesn't comply with the above requirements may apply for a variance. A variance request made under this exception may be approved by Mayor and Council. The submitted documents and justification will conform to requirements of Article 14 Administration, Chapter 14.05 and be submitted to the City Clerk and Code Enforcement Officer for review 30 days prior to the next scheduled Council Meeting. (Revised 5/8/2013)
d.
Corner Lots.
(1)
CORNER LOTS shall be treated as having STREET FRONTAGE on the primary STREET only. The side of the lot abutting the secondary street shall meet the side yard setback (or required build-to lines).
3.
Density.
a.
Detached Residential.
(1)
Maximum overall residential density of 2.2 dwelling units per acre of land with access to public water and sewer. In areas not served by public sewer, net residential density shall be determined by soil conditions and their ability to accommodate on-site septic systems.
b.
Attached Residential.
(1)
Maximum density of ATTACHED RESIDENTIAL units within the subdivision is 6.0 dwelling units per acre with access to public water and sewer. The total number of attached residential units shall not exceed a predefined maximum of the total development as determined by the MAYOR and COUNCIL.
(2)
The percentage of attached residential units shall not exceed 25% of total residential units in a new development. However, no ATTACHED RESIDENTIAL units shall be permitted as infill units within an existing development or neighborhood that contains only DETACHED RESIDENTIAL. (Amended 4/9/2008)
(3)
ATTACHED RESIDENTIAL units constructed within the DR District shall meet the requirements of the AR District.
4.
Neighborhood Parks, Open Space or Playground.
a.
The developer is encouraged to include NEIGHBORHOOD PARKS, OPEN SPACE (connecting within the development and with community OPEN SPACE) or PLAYGROUNDS in the development. Such amenities, of adequate size and correctly sited will facilitate new development that is built to the scale and character of the community.
(1)
NEIGHBORHOOD PARKS are generally located in the center of the neighborhood and are typically OPEN SPACES intended to provide unstructured recreation may also include PLAYGROUND equipment.
(2)
Access to the NEIGHBORHOOD PARK should be through OPEN SPACE within the development that is interconnected within the development and with planned or existing community greenways.
5.
Pedestrian/Bicycle Access.
a.
Residential development shall include sidewalks throughout the development that can serve for pedestrian and bicycle access. See chapter 8.05C for sidewalk standards.
b.
The pedestrian connectivity between developments is encouraged and shall be preserved wherever possible.
6.
Accessory Units.
a.
ACCESSORY UNITS shall be located behind the rear building line for the existing structure.
b.
Architectural elements and standards for the ACCESSORY UNIT shall be compatible with the principal structure.
J.
ATTACHED RESIDENTIAL. This district is intended primarily for ATTACHED RESIDENTIAL units developed at higher densities, typically ROWHOUSE, TOWNHOUSE, or similar type development, and apartment homes but, not including DUPLEX development. This area may also be appropriate for small lot DETACHED RESIDENTIAL, parks, OPEN SPACE, and PLAYGROUNDS.
1.
Height Specifications.
a.
BUILDING Height. principal BUILDING height is measured in stories. These parameters preserve appropriate street space.
b.
Each BUILDING shall be a maximum of 35 feet in height as measured from NATURAL GRADE.
c.
GROUND STORY HEIGHT.
(1)
Space at ground level is considered as the first STORY if it is six feet or more in height.
d.
Upper STORY HEIGHT.
(1)
Space within a roof line that is entirely non-habitable shall not be considered to be a STORY.
2.
Siting Specifications.
a.
Street Facade.
(1)
Building FACADES shall be oriented parallel to the STREET.
b.
Buildable Area.
(1)
The required BUILD-TO-LINE for buildings adjacent to the street shall be 15' from the property line.
(2)
ACCESSORY STRUCTURES shall be to the rear of the principal dwelling.
(3)
Side Yard Setback.
(a)
Side yard SETBACK shall be a minimum of 10'.
(4)
Rear Lot SETBACK.
(a)
For principal and ACCESSORY STRUCTURES, the minimum SETBACK is 10 feet from the property line.
c.
Parking and Circulation Facilities.
(1)
Parking shall be in a non-front loading garage.
d.
CORNER LOTS.
(1)
CORNER LOTS shall be treated as having STREET FRONTAGE on the primary STREET only. The side of the lot abutting the secondary street shall meet the side yard setback.
3.
Element Specifications.
a.
Attached Residential.
(1)
No more than 5 DWELLING UNITS shall be permitted per building.
(2)
In addition to the other requirements of this Ordinance, attached residential buildings shall contain architectural features that clearly delineate one DWELLING UNIT from the adjacent unit.
(3)
Each unit shall be provided covered parking or 2 vehicles.
b.
Detached Residential.
(1)
DETACHED RESIDENTIAL units shall be of a smaller scale, compatible with the square footage of an individual ATTACHED RESIDENTIAL unit.
(2)
Each unit shall be provided with a non-front loading garage.
(3)
DETACHED RESIDENTIAL units constructed within the AR District shall meet the requirements of the DR District.
c.
Front Porches.
(1)
Front porches facing the STREET must have a minimum depth of 8 feet.
(2)
Front porches shall not be built forward of the build-to line and must be open, un-air conditioned parts of the building.
(3)
Figure 28 indicates typical proportions of front porches.
Figure 28. Front Porches
d.
Entries.
(1)
Front entries shall be recessed and entry doors shall be centered.
(2)
Doors - shall be substantial and well detailed. They shall match the materials, design and character of the display window framing. "Narrow line" aluminum doors are not recommended.
e.
Windows.
(1)
Window Openings - should be vertical or square in shape; if square, windows and/or window panes should be vertical in shape.
(2)
Shaped frames and sills - should be used to enhance openings and add additional relief. They should be proportional to the glass area framed; e.g., a larger window should have thicker framing members.
(3)
MUNTINS - "true divided light" windows or sectional windows are recommended where a divided window design is desired; "snap-in" grilles or MUNTINS should not be used.
f.
Parking and Circulation Facilities.
(1)
Parking shall be either in a DETACHED GARAGE or ATTACHED GARAGE. Such garages shall be no less than 200 square feet nor larger than 400 square feet, not facing the front of the LOT, and are to be enclosed with overhead doors. DETACHED and ATTACHED GARAGES are permissible as long as such garage is constructed in the same architectural style, with the same colors and materials as the dwelling. EXCEPTIONS: Lots platted on or before May 8, 2013, that are too narrow or the shape of the lot is such that the request doesn't comply with the above requirements may apply for a variance. A variance request made under this exception may be approved by Mayor and Council. The submitted documents and justification will conform to requirements of Article 14 Administration, Chapter 14.05 and be submitted to the City Clerk and Code Enforcement Officer for review 30 days prior to the next scheduled Council Meeting. (Revised 5/8/2013)
4.
Density.
a.
Maximum density of ATTACHED RESIDENTIAL units and small single-family detached is 6 DWELLING UNITS per acre with access to public water and sewer. In areas not served by public sewer, net residential density shall be determined by soil conditions and their ability to accommodate on-site septic systems.
5.
Accessory Units.
a.
ACCESSORY UNITS shall be located behind the rear building line for the existing structure.
b.
Architectural elements and standards for the ACCESSORY UNIT shall be compatible with the principal structure.
6.
Neighborhood Parks, Open Space and Playground.
a.
The developer is encouraged to include NEIGHBORHOOD PARKS, OPEN SPACE (connecting within the development and with community OPEN SPACE) and PLAYGROUNDS in the development. Such amenities, of adequate size and correctly sited will facilitate new development that is built to the scale and character of the community.
(1)
NEIGHBORHOOD PARKS are generally located in the center of the neighborhood and are typically OPEN SPACES intended to provide unstructured recreation and may also include PLAYGROUND equipment.
(2)
Access to the NEIGHBORHOOD PARK should be through OPEN SPACE within the development that is interconnected within the development and with planned or existing community greenways.
7.
Pedestrian/Bicycle Access.
a.
Residential development shall include sidewalks throughout the development that can serve for pedestrian and bicycle access. See §[Chapter] 8.05C for sidewalk standards.
b.
The pedestrian and bicycle network within the development must connect to the city planned or existing network.
K.
Public Institutional. This district represents the various civic functions scattered throughout the city. Large scale government uses should be concentrated in the district along GA Highway 53. Smaller scale government administration offices generating higher point of service demand should remain clustered downtown. Certain civic uses may be suitable within predominantly residential areas provided they do not general significant traffic and are built to scale with the surround areas.
1.
Height Specifications.
a.
Building Height.
(1)
PRINCIPAL BUILDINGS shall be no more than 40 feet in height as detailed in paragraphs b and c below.
b.
GROUND STORY HEIGHT.
(1)
Space at ground level is considered as the first STORY if it is six feet or more in height.
(2)
TheGROUND STORY floor elevation shall be between 6 inches below and 48 inches above the sidewalk elevation at the front of the BUILDING. The maximum floor to BUILDING STORY HEIGHT for the GROUND FLOOR is 16 feet.
c.
Upper Story Height.
(1)
The maximum floor-to-BUILDING STORY HEIGHT for the GROUND FLOOR is 12 feet.
(2)
Space within a roofline that is entirely non-habitable shall not be considered to be a STORY.
2.
Siting Specifications.
a.
Building FACADES shall be oriented parallel to the STREET.
b.
Side Yard SETBACK.
(1)
A 10-foot side yard is required alongside property lines that abut non-residential LOTS; 20 feet is required adjacent to residential-only LOTS.
c.
CORNER LOTS.
(1)
CORNER LOTS shall be treated as having STREET FRONTAGE on the primary STREET only. The side of the lot abutting the secondary street shall meet the side yard setback.
d.
Rear Yards.
(1)
The minimum SETBACK for principal and ACCESSORY STRUCTURES is 20 feet from the property line.
(2)
For commercial trash receptacles and their opaque visual barriers, the minimum SETBACK is 20 feet from the property line.
e.
Parking and Circulation Facilities.
(1)
All off-street parking shall be screened from abutting streets with a fence, wall, or hedge at least 4 feet in height and meeting the standards of §[Chapter] 6.08.
(2)
Access between adjacent parking LOTS across property lines is required.
L.
Parks, Recreation, and Conservation. This district is dedicated to LOW-IMPACT AGRICULTURE, passive or active recreation uses or for the preservation or active recreation uses or for the preservation of environmentally sensitive lands and may include COMMUNITY PARKS, NEIGHBORHOOD PARKS, or GREENSPACE.
1.
On-site parking.
a.
On-site parking for recreation facilities shall be provided that meets the standards of § 8.06.
2.
Agricultural Uses.
a.
Agricultural Uses are subject to the following regulations:
(1)
Tract Size is a minimum of 18 acres.
(2)
The agricultural use is an accessory use to the residential use.
(3)
There is no more than one horse per 2 acres of fenced area on the same lot as the principal dwelling, not to exceed 10 horses per lot.
(4)
There is no more than one stable having no more than 10 stalls with no stall exceeding 200 square feet in area.
(5)
Stables are considered an accessory building and shall meet applicable standards.
b.
The following uses are prohibited within the district:
(1)
Crop production.
(2)
Dirt farming.
(3)
Sod production.
(4)
Poultry farms.
(5)
Fur farms.
(6)
Fish farms.
(7)
Kennels/catteries.
(8)
Swine.
(9)
Poultry.
(10)
Alpacas.
(11)
Ostrich.
(12)
Goats.
(13)
Sheep.
(14)
Application of chicken litter on the property.
(15)
Any other animals or birds besides horses and cattle.
3.
Residential Uses.
a.
A maximum of 1 DETACHED RESIDENTIAL unit is permitted per nine acres.
(Amd. of 12-21-2022 )
ARTICLE 6. - ARCHITECTURAL STANDARDS

Chapter 6.01. - Purpose.
In order to further development that is architecturally consistent with existing development in terms of building syntax, including proportion, FENESTRATION, and style, architectural standards are established. After basic standards such as building placement, dwelling access, and OPEN SPACE arrangements are achieved, development proposals are subject to further review for compliance with the intent of this Article.
Chapter 6.02. - Equivalent or better.
While only materials, techniques, and product types prescribed here are allowed, equivalent or better practices and products are encouraged.
Chapter 6.03. - Entergy efficiency and environmental conservation.
LEED (Leadership in Energy and Environmental Design) standards, or equivalent standards, are encouraged to be incorporated into the building design including the submission of a LEED scorecard in the review process.
Chapter 6.04. - Where clearly visible from the street.
Many of these standards apply only to conditions WHERE CLEARLY VISIBLE FROM THE STREET. For the purpose of this article, the definition of STREET includes parks, PLAYGROUNDS, and OPEN SPACE. These controls therefore concentrate on the public space and views from public space and minimize impact on the private realm.
Chapter 6.05. - What requires architectural review.
The following attributes require design review by the DEVELOPMENT REVIEW Committee:
A.
All new development except individual single-family homes in the DR and AR districts.
B.
Additions and exterior changes to all structures providing for non-residential uses and all structures with three (3) or more DWELLING UNITS existing prior to the adoption of this ordinance.
C.
All development located in the National Register District excluding ordinary repair and replacement.
Chapter 6.06. - Building walls (exterior).
BUILDING walls should reflect and complement the traditional materials and design of Watkinsville's historic architecture. They should express the construction techniques and structural constraints of traditional, long lasting building materials. Simple configurations and solid craftsmanship are favored over complexity and ostentation in BUILDING form and the articulation of details. All building materials used shall express their specific functional properties. For example, heavier, more permanent materials (masonry) support lighter materials (wood). Specific prescriptions of this Chapter follow.
A.
Standards for BUILDING walls (WHERE CLEARLY VISIBLE FROM THE STREET).
1.
Materials. The following materials are permitted:
a.
Brick.
b.
Stucco (cementitious finish).
c.
Native stone (or synthetic equivalent).
d.
Pre-cast masonry (for trim and CORNICE elements only).
e.
Gypsum Reinforced Fiber Concrete (GRFC-for trim elements only).
f.
Metal (for beams, lintels, trim elements and ornamentation only).
g.
Split-faced block (only for piers, foundation walls, and chimneys).
h.
Wood lap siding.
i.
Hardie-Plank™ equivalent or better siding.
2.
Configurations and Techniques. The following configurations and techniques are permitted:
a.
Walls.
(1)
Wall openings shall not span vertically more than one STORY.
(2)
Wall openings shall correspond to interior space and shall not span across building structure such as the floor structural and mechanical thickness.
(3)
Wall materials shall be consistent horizontally (i.e., joints between different materials must be horizontal and continue around corners) except for chimneys and piers.
(4)
Material changes shall be made within a constructional logic - as where an addition (of a different material) is built onto the original building.
(5)
An EXPRESSION LINE shall delineate the division between the first STORY and the second STORY of every facade of all principal commercial only or commercial/residential buildings.
(6)
AWNINGS, where permitted, may not conceal or replace EXPRESSION LINES.
b.
Wood Siding and Wood Simulation Materials.
(1)
Lap siding (horizontal) configuration.
(2)
Smooth or rough-sawn finish (no faux wood grain).
c.
Brick, Block, and Stone.
(1)
Must be properly detailed and in appropriate load-bearing configurations.
(2)
Stucco (cementitious finish).
(a)
Smooth or sand only, no "cake icing" finish.
Chapter 6.07. - Roofs and parapets.
Roofs and PARAPETS shall utilize appropriate pitch, drainage, and materials in order to provide visual coherence to the individual zoning district and the city. Specific prescriptions of this Chapter follow.
A.
Standards for roof and PARAPETS (WHERE CLEARLY VISIBLE FROM THE STREET).
1.
Materials. The following materials are permitted:
a.
Shingles - Asphalt or Metal (dimensional type).
b.
Metal - galvanized steel, copper, aluminum, or zinc-alum.
2.
Down spouts must match gutters in material and finish.
B.
Configurations and Techniques. The following configurations and techniques are permitted:
1.
Hip roofs (with sloping sides and ends).
2.
Gable roofs (with sloping sides and ends).
3.
Shed roofs (with a single slope).
4.
Flat roof (with minimal pitch as required by building code).
Figure 29.
5.
Roofs may use combinations of these permitted types and may supplement these types with dormers and valleys.
6.
Flat or low-slope roofs (less than 2:12 slope) shall have their edges concealed with PARAPETS wherever the edges concealed with STREETS. PARAPET walls must be of sufficient height to visually conceal rooftop mechanical equipment.
Figure 30. Roof with Parapet
C.
Overhang.
1.
Eaves must overhang at least 24 inches on the primary structure.
2.
Rakes (gable end) must overhang at least 18 inches.
3.
Eaves and rakes on accessory BUILDINGS, dormers, and other small structures must overhang at least 8 inches.
4.
Open eaves and simple traditional soffits and fascia are allowed.
5.
Soffits shall be placed perpendicular to the building wall, not sloping in plane with the roof (except for gable end rakes).
6.
Timber eaves and BALCONY brackets must be a minimum of 5.5 inches in dimension.
D.
Parapet Roofs.
1.
PARAPET roofs are permitted only in the following districts and only where the roof material is not visible from any adjacent STREET:
a.
Historic Main STREET.
b.
Public Institutional.
c.
Corridor Commercial.
d.
Employment Center.
e.
Downtown.
f.
Mixed-Use Office.
E.
Cornices and Other Features.
1.
Buildings without visible roof surfaces and overhanging eaves may satisfy the overhang requirement with a CORNICE projecting horizontally between 6 and 12 inches beyond the building walls. For buildings of three stories, the CORNICE projection shall increase an additional 6 to 12 inches per STORY.
2.
Skylights and roof vents are permitted only on the roof plane opposite the primary STREET or BUILD-TO-LINE or when shielded from the STREET view by the building's PARAPET wall.
3.
Overly elaborate, "postmodern" and/or "high-tech" designs are discouraged. However, ornamentation which contributes to the character of the building is encouraged.
4.
GREEN ROOF technologies are encouraged. Vegetative cover should be considered for flat roofs and solar panels should be considered for integration into pitched roof structures.
Chapter 6.08. - Fences, walls and hedges.
Fences, walls, or hedges establish a clear edge to the STREET where the buildings do not. They define outdoor spaces and separate the STREET from the private realm (parking, trash cans, gardens, and equipment). All fence and wall facades shall be as carefully designed as the building FACADE, with the finished side out, i.e., the "better" side facing the STREET. Specific prescriptions of this Chapter follow.
A.
Standards for Fences, Walls, and Hedges (WHERE CLEARLY VISIBLE FROM THE STREET).
1.
Only the following materials are permitted:
a.
Native/regional stone and equivalent imitation stone.
b.
Metal (welded steel and/or black aluminum for gates only).
c.
Brick of a color to match existing walls.
d.
Stucco on concrete block (or poured) only with brick or stone capping.
e.
A combination of materials (e.g., stone piers with brick infill panels).
f.
Wood (for residential only), decay resistant or pressure treated.
B.
Height of Fences, Walls and Hedges.
1.
In front yards and within the front 30 inches of vacant LOTS: maximum height of 48 inches; pillars and posts may be taller.
2.
In side yards (behind the front plane of the PRINCIPAL BUILDING), in rear yards, and beyond the front 30 feet of vacant LOTS: minimum height of 36 includes, maximum height of 96 inches.
Chapter 6.09. - Columns, piers, guardrails, and balustrades.
A.
Columns, Piers, Guardrails, and Balustrades.
1.
Permitted Finish Materials.
a.
Columns that support front porches must use:
(1)
Wood (decay resistant or pressure treated), painted or stained;
(2)
Concrete block with stucco finish (CBS);
(3)
Reinforced concrete with stucco finish; or
(4)
Natural or cast (simulated) stone, or brick.
b.
Guardrails and balustrades surrounding front porches and stoops must use:
(1)
Wood (decay resistant or pressure treated), painted or stained;
(2)
Aluminum;
(3)
Stone, including cast (simulated) stone; or
(4)
Brick.
Chapter 6.10. - Windows and doors.
Windows shall be divided by multiple panes of glass. This helps the window "Hold" the surface of the facade, rather than appearing like a "hole" in the wall (an effect produced by a large single sheet of glass). All windows and doors should be selected with their energy conservation value in mind so as to achieve the highest possible energy savings. Specific prescriptions of this Chapter follow.
A.
Materials. The following materials are permitted:
1.
Windows shall be of anodized aluminum, wood, clad wood, vinyl, or steel.
2.
Window glass shall be clear, with light transmission at the GROUND STORY at least 90 percent and for the upper stories 75 percent (modification as necessary to meet any applicable building code requirements). Specialty windows may utilize stained, opalescent, or glass block (one per facade, maximum).
3.
Window screens shall be black or gray.
4.
Screen frames shall match window frame material or be dark anodized.
5.
Doors shall be of wood, clad wood, or steel.
Figure 31.
B.
Configurations and Techniques. The following configurations and techniques are permitted:
1.
The following requirements apply to all windows:
a.
Windows may be ganged horizontally (maximum 5 per group) if each grouping is separated by mullion, column, pier, or wall section that is at least 7 inches wide.
b.
Windows shall be no closer than 30 inches to BUILDING CORNERS (excluding BAY WINDOWS and where the BUILDING CORNER is also a BLOCK CORNER).
c.
Exterior shutters, if applied, shall be size and mounted appropriate for the window (one-half the width), even if inoperable. Plastic shutters are prohibited.
2.
The following requirements apply to all upper STORY windows:
a.
Windows shall be double-hung, single-hung, AWNING, or casement windows.
b.
Fixed windows are permitted only as a component of a system including operable windows within a single wall opening.
c.
Residential buildings/floors: panes of glass no larger than 36 inches vertical by 30 inches horizontal.
d.
The maximum pane size for office uses is 48 inches vertical by 40 inches horizontal.
e.
Egress windows may be installed according to the appropriate building code.
Figure 32.
C.
Shop front (GROUND FLOOR) Windows and Doors.
1.
Single panels of glass not larger than 6 feet in height by 4 feet wide.
2.
GROUND FLOOR windows shall not be made opaque by window treatments (excepting operable sun screen devices within the conditional space) and shall allow a minimum 60 percent of surface view into the building for a depth of at least 20 feet.
3.
Shop fronts may extend up to 24 inches beyond the facade (BUILD-TO-LINE) into the right-of-way.
D.
Doors.
1.
Double-height entryways (those that span more than one STORY) are not allowed.
2.
Doors shall not be recessed more than 3 feet behind the shop-front windows and, in any case, shall have a clear view and path to a 45-degree angle past the perpendicular from each side of the door.
3.
Front entries should be recessed and entry doors should be centered.
4.
Roll-down security gates and doors are prohibited.
Chapter 6.11. - Renovation of existing structures.
A.
All new construction must comply with these regulations.
B.
Changing or rebuilding 50% or more of any STREET FACADE of a BUILDING requires the entire building to comply with design regulations that are specific to facades.
C.
Changing or rebuilding less than 50% of any facade of a building, requires only that facade to comply with design regulations.
D.
All new windows, entrances, storefronts, and doorways must be designed in accordance with these regulations.
E.
Any addition of 50% or more of the first floor area of a one STORY building requires the entire building to come into compliance with these regulations. In general, additions to two STORY buildings shall be two STORY. Exceptions will be made if there are topographic constraints. One STORY additions to two STORY buildings may only be built if the addition is on the rear of the building and does not front on a STREET or pedestrian way.
F.
Routine maintenance and repair are exempt from these requirements.
Chapter 6.12. - Accessory buildings.
A.
ACCESSORY BUILDINGS shall be located behind the rear building line of the PRINCIPAL BUILDING.
B.
Architectural elements and standards of the ACCESSORY BUILDINGS shall be compatible with the principal structure.
C.
The ACCESSORY BUILDING shall be of a size and nature customarily incidental and subordinate to the PRINCIPAL BUILDING.
Chapter 6.13. - Large footprint building.
Buildings covering more than 20,000 square feet of ground and/or a building frontage of greater than 150 feet can create special problems when inserted into the downtown's connected system of walkable STREET frontages. To decrease the need for solely auto oriented patronage and encourage use by pedestrians, any such building constructed within the HM District must meet the following requirements, in addition to any other requirements of this Ordinance:
A.
Large footprint buildings may not be larger than a single BLOCK.
B.
Buildings shall avoid long, monotonous, uninterrupted walls or roof planes on their visible facades. Building wall offsets, including projections and recesses shall be used in order to add architectural interest and variety; relieve the visual effect of a single, long wall; and subdivide the wall into human scale proportions.
C.
Roofline offsets shall be provided to lend architectural interest and variety to the massing of a building and to relieve the effect of a single, long roof.
D.
For large footprint building, the building facade shall create repetitive bays, or the facades shall be divided into asymmetrical, yet balanced, composition.
Large Footprint Building—Required Facade Design
E.
All sides of the building shall use materials consistent with those on the front if visible from public STREETS or neighboring properties, and should be carefully designed with similar detailing, comparable quality, and compatible materials.
F.
BUILDING FACADES visible from public STREETS cannot be separated from public STREETS by parking LOTS except for permitted parking in the EC and CC districts.
G.
Loading docks, service areas, and trash disposal facilities cannot be visible to persons standing on public STREETS, sidewalks, or parks.
ARTICLE 7. - NEIGHBORHOOD PARKS, OPEN SPACE & PLAYGROUNDS
The developer shall dedicate at least 20 percent of the land in a residential development as NEIGHBORHOOD PARKS, OPEN SPACE connecting within the development with community OPEN SPACE if practical, unless certified as impractical by an architect or engineer) and/or PLAYGROUNDS for subdivisions of 6 or more. For subdivisions of 5 or fewer, the required dedication shall be at least 10 percent. Such amenities, of adequate size and correctly sited will facilitate new development that is built to the scale and character of the community.
A.
Neighborhood Parks.
1.
NEIGHBORHOOD PARKS are generally located in the center of the neighborhood, within walking distance of most residents, and are placed for recreation and social gatherings. Such parks are typically OPEN SPACES intended to provide unstructured recreation but may also include PLAYGROUND equipment, picnic areas, court game facilities, and community gardens.
2.
Access to the NEIGHBORHOOD PARK shall be through OPEN SPACE within the development that is interconnected within the development and interconnected with planned or existing community greenways if practical, unless certified as impractical by an architect or engineer.
3.
Every residential development in the AR or DR district defined as a major subdivision under the City of Watkinsville Subdivision Regulations shall include a NEIGHBORHOOD PARK within the development. All development applications for the DR or AR districts shall be accompanied by a NEIGHBORHOOD PARK conceptual design. NEIGHBORHOOD PARKS shall be developed by the APPLICANT.
4.
NEIGHBORHOOD PARKS shall have at least 60 percent of their perimeter fronting rights-of-way.
5.
NEIGHBORHOOD PARKS shall be no narrower than a 1:4 ratio and no NEIGHBORHOOD PARK shall be less than 25 feet in width.
6.
NEIGHBORHOOD PARKS shall be owned and maintained either by the developer or the homeowners association or the developer may deed the NEIGHBORHOOD PARK to the City.
B.
Open Space.
1.
OPEN SPACE within any development shall be interconnected with NEIGHBORHOOD PARKS and OPEN SPACE within the development and with existing and planned community greenways if the community GREENWAY abuts the property being developed, if practical, unless certified as impractical by an architect or engineer.
2.
No area of a LOT constituting the minimum LOT area nor any part of an existing or future road, RIGHT-OF-WAY, off STREET parking, LOADING SPACE, buffer, or area immediately underneath electrical transmission lines be counted as OPEN SPACE.
3.
Areas designated as OPEN SPACE shall be both visibly and physically accessible with access provided to all neighborhood OPEN SPACE, natural and developed, directly from the PUBLIC STREET and greenway system.
4.
BUILDINGS shall front public OPEN SPACE. Development adjacent to OPEN SPACES shall front onto the area as much as possible so that the areas are not enclosed by back yards.
5.
Buffering and SETBACKS shall be used between environmental resources and proposed development to ensure that the proposed development does not degrade the existing habitat. Developers shall provide an OPEN SPACE buffer zone around all natural areas. The depth of the buffer zone shall be 25 feet.
6.
Areas designated as OPEN SPACE shall be protected by a deed restriction or other appropriate method to ensure that they cannot be subdivided or developed in the future and remain open in perpetuity. They may be dedicated to the public or held in private ownership. Appropriate ownership must be determined and approved by the City through the development review process.
7.
OPEN SPACE shall:
a.
Not include required SETBACKS;
b.
Not include disconnected remnants of land created by division of sites into LOTS or parcels that do not qualify as functional OPEN SPACE.
No more than 50% of land designated as OPEN SPACE shall be comprised of UNBUILDABLE LAND.
8.
A preliminary OPEN SPACE plan at a scale no greater than 1" = 200' shall be submitted with the preliminary plat. The intent of the preliminary OPEN SPACE plan is to discuss the details of how the OPEN SPACE will be used to organize the overall project design, illustrate how it will function in the overall neighborhood and define long-term maintenance requirements and responsibilities. The plan shall include the following specific information:
a.
Scale, north arrow, site boundary.
b.
Existing and proposed STREETS.
c.
Existing and proposed utilities and easements.
d.
Existing contours (2' intervals).
e.
Existing site features including ditches, trees, shrubs and native ground covers and any drainage ways on the site. Indicate which plants will be preserved and method of preservation and which will be removed.
f.
Indicate floodplains, wetlands, endangered species, archaeological/historic areas or other resources and how they will be preserved and integrated into the overall site design.
g.
Show the bank, shoreline, and high water mark of any perennial stream or body of water on the site.
h.
Illustrate how the OPEN SPACE network and pedestrian/bike circulation system will function within the proposed development and surrounding neighborhood.
i.
Show how the property will relate to the NEIGHBORHOOD PARKS, GREENSPACE, sidewalks, and bikeways in the area.
j.
Indicate which areas will be irrigated, if any, and method of irrigation.
k.
Define areas to be considered OPEN SPACE.
l.
Indicate how OPEN SPACE will be used and maintained, including erosion control, revegetation, irrigation, and weed management both during and after construction.
m.
Conceptual design of NEIGHBORHOOD PARK, if applicable.
ARTICLE 8. - STREET AND PARKING STANDARDS
These standards address the characteristics of STREETS and are intended to support pedestrian and bicycle activity.

Chapter 8.01. - Street standards.
A.
All streets shall comply with the Subdivision Regulations of Watkinsville, GA adopted April 23, 1986, and as may be amended.
Editor's note— New subdivision regulations were adopted on February 2, 2008. See appendix B[C] to this Code of Ordinances.
Chapter 8.02. - Curb, gutter, and drainage requirements.
A.
All street frontages shall include either a curb or gutter or alternative drainage meeting the approval of the ZONING ADMINISTRATOR. If alternative drainage is utilized, the following is required:
1.
The drainage channel shall be grass, planting or other material as approved by the ZONING ADMINISTRATOR to prevent erosion and assist in drainage control.
2.
The drainage channel shall be considered part of the project improvements and shall be:
a.
Designed by a professional licensed in the State of Georgia to undertake drainage design and engineering prior to the recordation of any subdivision plat or associated metes and bounds deed, or issuance of any building permit; and
b.
All improvements shall be installed to the satisfaction of the ZONING ADMINISTRATOR prior to the issuance of a certificate of occupancy, use, or occupancy of the project.
Chapter 8.03. - Storage and parking of recreational vehicle, trailers, and other vehicles.
A.
Commercial vehicles and trailers of all types, including travel, boat, camping and hauling, shall not be parked or stored on any lot or parcel in any AR or DR zoning districts except in accordance with the following requirements:
1.
No commercial vehicle used for hauling explosives, gasoline or liquefied petroleum products is permitted.
2.
Recreational vehicles, hauling trailers, or boat trailers are permitted if parked or stored behind the BUILD-TO-LINE.
3.
A RECREATIONAL VEHICLE shall not be occupied either temporarily or permanently while it is parked or stored.
4.
It is prohibited to park or store abandoned, wrecked or junked vehicles, power-driven construction equipment, used lumber or metal, commercial vehicles (except those on a service call), or any miscellaneous scrap or salvageable material not in an enclosed BUILDING. For the purposes of this subsection, an abandoned vehicle is a vehicle without current state license.
5.
No automobile, RECREATIONAL VEHICLE, trailer, or other vehicle offered for sale shall be parked in the right-of-way.
Chapter 8.04. - Blocks/alleys.
A.
All LOTS shall share a frontage line with a STREET.
B.
All LOTS and/or all contiguous LOTS shall be considered to be a part of a BLOCK for this purpose.
C.
Maximum Block Sizes.
1.
The width of blocks, and block perimeters shall not exceed the specifications of the table entitled "Maximum block Width and block Perimeter."
EXPAND
Maximum Block Width, Block Perimeter, and Minimum Road Frontage
Maximum Block Width (ft.) Maximum Block Perimeter (ft.) Minimum Road Frontage (ft.)
AR 600 2800 100
CC None None 100
DR 800 3600 100
DT 250 1400 100
EC None None 125
HM 300 100 30
MUO 300 1700 200
PI 1000 4400 NA
PRC None None NA
SB None None 100
SM None None 100
  2.
A dedicated PEDESTRIAN WAY or EASEMENT is recommended when blocks are more than 600 feet in length.
3.
Curb Cuts shall be limited to no more than one per 125 feet of STREET FRONTAGE within the Downtown, Employment Center, Corridor Commercial, and Mixed Use Office districts.
Chapter 8.05. - Streetscape.
A.
Streetscape Standards.
1.
STREETSCAPE Standards are for the purpose of ensuring the consistency of STREETS within the city. They also serve to assist BUILDING owners and operators with understanding the relationship between the STREET and their LOTS. These standards also establish an environment that encourages and facilitates pedestrian activity. Native trees and plants contribute to privacy, noise reduction, maintenance of the natural habitat, and conservation of water. Furthermore, they require less maintenance than imported or exotic species.
B.
Street Trees.
1.
Each STREET shall have canopy shade trees (STREET TREES). Vary the spacing of STREET TREES along the rights-of-way to add interest and diversity to roadway. In general, individual trees or connected planting areas should occur every 25—30 feet.
2.
Generally, individual trees or connected planting areas should not be located between the sidewalk and the curb unless the distance between the sidewalk and the curb equals or exceeds 6 feet. If the area between the sidewalk and curb is less than 6 feet, individual trees or connected planting areas should be placed behind the sidewalk utilizing private property and tree planting easements to increase above and below ground growing space and vehicular and pedestrian clearance.
3.
Open soil surface area shall not be less than 60 square feet (with a minimum of 5 feet in any direction) per isolated tree.
4.
Connected planting areas are encouraged.
5.
At planting, trees shall be at least 4 inches in diameter (4 feet above grade) and at least 12 feet in overall height.
6.
Trees should be planted only where there is adequate room both overhead and underground for the mature size of the tree.
7.
Maintain sight lines so drivers can see pedestrians and vehicles when pulling out of driveways.
8.
STREET TREES shall be "limbed up" so as to not interfere with pedestrian or auto/truck travel (minimum of 7 feet clear over the sidewalk and 14 feet over the travel lanes of the STREET).
9.
Avoid over thinning a natural stand to reduce susceptibility to wind damage and uprooting.
a.
Plant trees a minimum of 15 feet from driveways and 35 feet from road intersections for MINOR COLLECTORS and 50 feet for MAJOR COLLECTORS.
10.
Avoid planting trees directly over property lines or corners.
11.
Approved Road Frontage Trees.
a.
The following tree species are suitable for planting along the roadside.
b.
Tree species planted on private property outside the sidewalks should be selected from the species list in the Watkinsville Urban Forest Ordinance.
EXPAND
Trees Suitable for Road Frontage Areas
Tree Size at Maturity
Crape myrtle, Common S*
Dogwood, Flowering S*
Elm, Chinese M
Gingko (male) M
Hornbeam, American M
Hornbeam, European M
Maple, Red M
Maple, Sugar L
Maple, Trident M
Oak, Darlington L
Oak, Over cup L
Oak, Scarlet L
Oak, Shamar L
Oak, Willow L
Plane tree, London L
Redbud, Easter S *
Serviceberry S *
  S - Small 15 — 25'
M - Medium 25 — 40'
L - Large >40'
* - suitable for planting beneath utility line
C.
Sidewalks.
1.
Intent.
a.
The intent of the standards for SIDEWALKS and MULTI-USE PATHWAYS is to assure a safe, convenient and attractive pedestrian/bicycle system that minimizes conflicts between vehicles, bicycles, and pedestrians.
2.
General Provisions.
a.
Interconnected network. A sidewalk network that interconnects all DWELLING UNITS with other DWELLING UNITS, nonresidential uses, and common OPEN SPACE shall be provided throughout each development. Sidewalks shall be separate and distinct from motor vehicle circulation to the greatest extent possible. The pedestrian circulation system shall include gathering/sitting areas and provide benches, landscaping and other STREET furniture where appropriate.
b.
Sidewalks required. Sidewalks shall be constructed on one side of the road within DETACHED RESIDENTIAL districts and on two sides of the road in all other districts. Sidewalk networks within individual development shall connect to existing or planned networks or shall further potential connectivity to the existing or planned sidewalk/bicycle network.
3.
Sidewalks shall be a minimum of 5 feet wide if set back from the curb or 6 feet if at the curb face. Sidewalks adjacent to storefronts in the HM, SM and DT districts shall be consistent with the average sidewalk width on a BLOCK if BUILDING in an area with existing sidewalks.
4.
Sidewalks shall be located within the RIGHT-OF-WAY unless otherwise approved by the CITY.
5.
Sidewalk materials.
a.
The acoustic, thermal, visual and tactile properties of sidewalk paving materials shall be appropriate to the proposed function of pedestrian circulation. Sidewalks shall be constructed of concrete, brick, colored/textured concrete pavers, concrete containing accents of brick, or some combination thereof that is compatible with the style, materials, colors and details of the surrounding BUILDINGS. Asphalt shall not be used for sidewalks.
b.
Sidewalks must be constructed of approved materials of sufficient strength to support light maintenance vehicles.
c.
The color and composition of sidewalks shall be continued after it crosses vehicular driveways. Where the sidewalk color and composition of the sidewalk is not otherwise distinguishable from the driveway composition and color, the sidewalk shall be composed of material with color and texture that demarcates the pedestrian crossing. This provision is required to promote safety of pedestrians, as different textures or colors of pedestrian crossings alert or remind the motorist pedestrians are present.
d.
Sidewalk installation.
(1)
Sidewalks and related improvements shall be installed or constructed by the sub divider in accordance with plans and specifications approved by the City and, after installation and construction, they shall be subject to inspection and approval by the City.
(2)
Sidewalks shall comply with AASHTO standards unless stricter standards are required by this ordinance.
(3)
Sidewalks shall comply with Americans with Disabilities Act requirement.
e.
Street Border.
(1)
A STREET border should be provided along STREETS for the safety of motorists and pedestrians as well as for aesthetic reasons. The border between the roadway and the RIGHT-OF-WAY line should be wide enough to serve several purposes, including provision of a buffer space between pedestrians and vehicular traffic, sidewalk space, an area for placement of underground utilities, and an area for maintainable aesthetic features such as landscaping. The border width shall be a minimum width of 6 feet, but preferably, it should be 10 feet or wider. Wherever practical, an additional obstacle free border width of 12 feet or more should be provided between the curb and the sidewalk for safety and environmental enhancement.
(2)
The minimum width for AESTHETIC FEATURES is 6 feet. A strip this wide provides ample storage room for many utilities. The width provides an essential buffer between an out-of-control motorist and a pedestrian; improved sight distances at driveways; and adequate width for landscaping and STREET TREES. A tree set back from the roadway 4' meets minimum AASHTO standards for fixed objects when a barrier curb (30 mph or less) is used and is adequate for most species. On the back side of sidewalks, a minimum width buffer of 1 foot is required. Without such a buffer, vegetation, walls, BUILDINGS, and other objects encroach on the usable sidewalk space. This SETBACK is essential not only to facilitate pedestrian walking comfort, but to ensure essential sight lines at each residential and commercial driveway.
(3)
Newspaper racks, U.S. mail boxes and commercial mailing service boxes, and other STREET furniture should not encroach into the walking space. Such items should be placed behind the sidewalk or in a corner or mid-BLOCK bulb-out.
f.
Grade.
(1)
If possible, grade should be kept to no more than 5 percent, and, terrain permitting, avoid grade greater than 8 percent.
g.
Stairs.
(1)
Stairs require railings on at least one side, and they should extend 18 inches beyond the top and bottom stair. When an especially wide set of stairs is created, rails are required on both sides and one or two in mid-stair areas. Avoid open risers and use a uniform grade with a constant tread to rise along the stairway length.
(2)
Stairs shall be lit at night.
(3)
Minimum stairway width is 42 inches. The forward slope shall be 1 percent in order to drain water.
h.
Pedestrian Pathways.
(1)
PEDESTRIAN PATHWAYS through a subdivision BLOCK shall be 5 feet wide, shall be within a dedicated RIGHT-OF-WAY not less than 15 feet in width, and shall be flanked with landscaping and lighting. PEDESTRIAN PATHWAYS along BUILDINGS and within parking LOTS shall be raised and curbed, where suitable. A direct pedestrian connection to BUILDING entries, public space and parking areas shall be provided from public sidewalks. Walkways shall be constructed of the same materials as sidewalks, except that PEDESTRIAN PATHWAYS internal to asphalt surfaced parking LOTS may be of asphalt construction. PEDESTRIAN PATHWAYS crossing driveways in parking LOTS shall be clearly delineated by a change in pavement color or texture or paint striping.
i.
Lighting.
(1)
All sidewalks and other pedestrian walkways shall have lighting, using poles and fixtures consistent with the overall design theme for the development.
j.
Multi-use pathways (bikeways).
(1)
MULTI-USE PATHWAYS shall be provided to link internal OPEN SPACE areas with peripheral OPEN SPACE areas and shall connect to MULTI-USE PATHWAY routes throughout the community. Multiuse pathway routes shall be designated between residential areas and commercial and employment centers and schools.
(2)
MULTI-USE PATHWAYS on local STREETS may be delineated by painted "bicycle only" lanes. Sidewalks that may be used as a MULTI-USE PATHWAY are required on arterial and collector STREETS. All other MULTI-USE PATHWAYS shall be a minimum of 8 feet wide and shall be of concrete construction. Asphalt paving is prohibited. Bike racks shall be provided at the entry to internal and peripheral OPEN SPACE areas.
D.
Streetscape Landscaping.
1.
Turf grass and Groundcover.
a.
All turf grass must be solidly sodded at installation - not seeded, sprigged, or plugged.
b.
Groundcovers may be used in place of turf grass.
2.
Plant Material.
a.
All plant material, including trees, shall conform to the standards of the American Association of Nurserymen.
E.
Street Lights.
1.
For properties abutting Main Street, STREET LIGHTS shall be placed in a pattern consistent with the existing STREETSCAPE and light fixtures shall match those of the existing STREETSCAPE.
2.
For properties not abutting Main Street, STREET LIGHTS shall be fully shielded.
Chapter 8.06. - Parking.
A.
Automobile Parking.
1.
Parking goals.
a.
Enable people to park once at a convenient location and to access a variety of commercial enterprises in pedestrian friendly environments by encouraging SHARED PARKING.
b.
Reduce inefficient, single-purpose parking.
c.
Avoid adverse parking impacts on neighborhoods adjacent to redevelopment areas.
d.
Increase visibility and accessibility of parking.
e.
Provide flexibility for the redevelopment of small sites and for the preservation of HISTORIC STRUCTURES.
2.
On-street Parking.
a.
ON-STREET PARKING for guests shall be permitted on all streets within the DR and AR zones, except within 25 feet of the RIGHT-OF-WAY of an intersecting street.
b.
ON-STREET PARKING for guests is permitted on both sides of the street in the AR district and one side of the street in the DR district.
3.
Off-street Parking.
a.
In all zoning districts, OFF-STREET PARKING facilities for motor vehicles shall only be for the day to day short term use of occupants, employees, and patrons of the building or structures which the parking services and hereafter erected, altered or extended and OFF-STREET PARKING shall not include nor permit temporary or long-term storage of any vehicles, commercial or otherwise. These OFF-STREET PARKING facilities shall be provided and maintained only as follows:
(1)
Surface.
(a)
All parking and driveway areas and primary access to parking facilities shall be surfaced with asphalt, concrete or similar materials.
(2)
Integrate parking LOTS with surroundings.
(a)
Within the EC and CC districts at least 80 percent of parking spaces shall be located to the rear of all BUILDINGS and shall not interfere with designated pedestrian routes, or negatively impact surrounding neighborhoods.
(b)
No more than 20 percent of total parking for customers shall be located to the front of the principal BUILDING in the EC and CC district.
(c)
Parking in all other districts shall be to the rear of the principal BUILDING or if the lot contains more than one principal BUILDING, parking shall be located within the INNER COURT or to the rear of the back-most principal BUILDING whose long axis is oriented to the street.
(d)
The pedestrian character of STREETS and BUILDINGS shall be maximized through continuity of BUILDINGS and landscape frontage.
(3)
Location.
(a)
Parking LOTS shall be located to the rear of BUILDINGS or in the interior of a BLOCK. Limited parking is allowed to the side of the BUILDING if topography or location of OPEN SPACE or a greenway designated in the CONCEPT PLAN otherwise prohibits location solely to the rear of the BUILDING.
(4)
Landscaping.
(a)
Parking LOTS shall be landscaped, screened and buffered as provided in Article 9.
(5)
Shared access.
(a)
Where feasible, parking LOTS shall share access drives with adjacent property with similar land uses.
4.
Off-street Parking Design.
a.
All OFF-STREET PARKING areas, excluding driveways associated with residential development shall be designed so that vehicles may exit without backing into a public STREET unless no other practical alternative is available due to topography or lot configuration.
b.
OFF-STREET PARKING areas shall be designed so that parked vehicles do not encroach upon or extend onto public rights-of-way or sidewalks or strike against or damage any wall, vegetation, utility or other structure.
c.
Each automobile parking space shall be not less than 8½ feet width and shall have a minimum area of 160 square feet exclusive of drives and aisles.
d.
In parking areas with 20 or more parking spaces, up to 30 percent of the minimum number of required parking spaces or of the total spaces, whichever is greater, shall be allocated for compact cars and designed to the following requirements:
(1)
A compact car space shall not be less than 7.5 feet wide and 15 feet long;
(2)
Compact car spaces shall be laid out in a group and appropriately identified as intended for exclusive use by compact cars;
(3)
All aisle dimensions shall not be reduced from the requirements specified for all parking spaces.
e.
Circulation area design.
(1)
Circulation areas shall be designed to facilitate the safe movement of vehicles without posing a danger to pedestrians or impeding the function of the parking area.
(2)
Interior driveways, when used with 90-degree-angle parking shall be not less than 24 feet wide; when used with 60-degree angle parking, not less than 12 feet wide with one-way traffic; when used with parallel parking or where no parking exists, not less than 10 feet for one-way traffic and not less than 20 feet for two-way traffic.
f.
Surfacing and Drainage.
(1)
All off-street parking shall be properly drained and surfaced to avoid water and dust problems.
g.
Lighting.
(1)
All parking area lighting shall be full cutoff-type fixtures. Any light used to illuminate parking areas or for any other purpose shall be so arranged as to reflect the light away from adjacent residential properties and away from the vision of passing motorists.
h.
Location of OFF-STREET PARKING on Other Property.
(1)
If OFF-STREET PARKING cannot be reasonably provided on the same LOT with the principal use or BUILDING, said OFF-STREET PARKING may be provided on other property lying not more than 400 feet from the main entrance to the principal use. In this situation, the applicant shall submit with his application for a building permit an instrument duly executed and acknowledged which accepts as a condition for the issuance of a building permit the permanent availability of such OFF-STREET PARKING to serve the principal use.
A parking lot without an associated use on the same parcel, or a lot in which the number of spaces exceed the maximum allowance for the associated use on the property, constitutes a commercial parking structure or lot as a use and as such is regulated in the use table for each district.
i.
Shared OFF-STREET PARKING.
(1)
When there are opportunities to support parking demand through shared OFF-STREET PARKING for compatible uses, SHARED PARKING agreements shall be used to demonstrate the adequacy of the parking supply as a substitute for standard parking requirements.
j.
Paved OFF-STREET PARKING requirements.
(1)
Paved OFF-STREET PARKING shall be provided according to the minimum requirements below:
EXPAND
Paved Off-Street Parking
Use Required Parking
Detached residential 2 spaces per unit
Attached residential 1 space per bedroom, up to 2 per unit plus ⅙ parking space per ATTACHED RESIDENTIAL unit for use as SHARED PARKING for visitors
Accessory dwelling 1 space per bedroom, up to 2 per unit
SENIOR LIVING 1 space per 3 beds
Community Services 1 space for each 500 square feet of gross floor area
Daycare Center 1 per 500 square feet
Retail 1 space for every 500 square feet of gross floor *
Office/business 1 space for every 500 square feet of gross floor area *
Parks & Open Space See 8.06A.4.i.(2)
Religious Institutions 1 space for each 6 seats in the main auditorium or sanctuary
Institutional 1 space for every 6 seats
Business Park/Industrial 1 space each for maximum number of employees present at any one time *
  * OFF-STREET PARKING for commercial uses shall be sufficient to provide parking for employees of all proposed uses, as well as customer parking.
SPACES reserved for employees shall be designated as such by means of signage.
(2)
Unlisted Uses. Upon receiving a development application for a use not specifically listed in "Paved Off-Street Parking," the ZONING ADMINISTRATOR shall apply the OFF-STREET PARKING standard specified for the listed use that is deemed most similar to the proposed use or require a parking study in accordance with this Article.
k.
Off-Street Parking for Land Uses With Unique Parking Requirements.
(1)
Land Uses which have widely varying parking demand characteristics, make it impossible to specify a single OFF-STREET PARKING STANDARD. Such uses shall comply with the following:
(a)
A developer proposing to develop or expand a land use with unique parking requirements shall submit a parking study that provides justification for the number of OFF-STREET PARKING spaces proposed. A parking study shall include:
(i)
Estimates of parking demand based on recommendations of the Institute of Traffic Engineers, or other acceptable estimates as approved by the Zoning Administrator, and should include other reliable data collected from uses of combinations of uses that are the same as or comparable with the proposed use. Comparability will be determined by density, scale, bulk, and area, type of activity, location, or parameters of the use that may be estimated to parking requirements.
(ii)
The study shall document the source of data used, and methods used to develop the recommendations. After reviewing the parking study, the ZONING ADMINISTRATOR shall establish a minimum off-street parking standard for the proposed use.
l.
Location of Spaces.
(1)
OFF-STREET PARKING facilities for residential uses shall be provided and located on the same LOT as the BUILDING they are intended to serve.
(2)
Required OFF-STREET PARKING in AR or DR zones shall not lie within the front yard SETBACK nor within any required side yard SETBACK adjacent to a STREET. (Driveway spaces within these SETBACKS cannot be counted for required OFF-STREET PARKING.)
(3)
The location of required OFF-STREET PARKING facilities for other than residential uses shall be within 400 feet of the BUILDING they are intended to serve when measured from the nearest point of the BUILDING or structure.
(4)
Required OFF-STREET PARKING shall be set back 20' from the back of an adjacent sidewalk.
(5)
Handicap parking spaces.
(a)
Handicap parking spaces shall be required for all retail, office, business, industrial and institutional uses, as well as ATTACHED RESIDENTIAL units.
(b)
Handicap parking spaces shall be designated as being for the handicapped with painted symbols and standard identification signs.
(c)
Handicap parking spaces serving a particular building shall be located on the shortest accessible route of travel from adjacent parking to an accessible entrance. In parking facilities that do not serve a particular building, handicap parking shall be located on the shortest accessible route of travel to an accessible pedestrian entrance to the parking area. In buildings with multiple accessible entrances with adjacent parking, accessible parking space shall be dispersed and located closest to the accessible entrances.
(d)
Number of handicap parking spaces.
EXPAND
HANDICAP PARKING SPACES
Total Parking Space in LOT Minimum Required Number of Handicap Parking Spaces
1—25 1
26—50 2
51—75 3
76—100 4
101—150 5
151—200 6
201—300 7
301—400 8
401—500 9
501—1,000 2% of total
1,001 and over 20 plus 1 for every 100 over 1,000
  (e)
For every eight handicap parking spaces, there must be at least 1 van-accessible space. If there is only 1 handicap parking space, that space must be van accessible.
(f)
Parking space dimensions.
(i)
Parking spaces must be 8 feet by 18 feet with a five-foot-wide access aisle.
(ii)
Van-accessible spaces must be 8 feet by 18 feet with an eight-foot-wide access aisle.
(iii)
Parking spaces that are parallel to a pedestrian walk which is handicap accessible may have the same dimensions as those of standard vehicles.
m.
Off-Street Loading and Unloading Spaces.
(1)
Each off-street loading space shall have minimum dimensions of 14 feet in height, 12 feet in width, and 55 feet in length. However, upon sufficient demonstration that a particular loading space will be used exclusively by shorter trucks, the ZONING ADMINISTRATOR may reduce the minimum length accordingly to as little as 35 feet.
(2)
Each required off-street loading space shall have direct access to a STREET or alley or have a driveway which offers satisfactory ingress and egress for trucks.
(3)
Sufficient space for off-street loading and unloading must be provided for each institution, hotel, commercial or industrial building or similar use requiring the receipt or distribution of materials or merchandise, and having a floor area of more than 10,000 square feet of floor space or fraction thereof. Such space must be located so as not to hinder the free movement of pedestrians and vehicles over a sidewalk, street or alley.
(4)
Sufficient off-street loading space (not necessarily a full space if shared by adjacent establishments) must be provided for each commercial or industrial building requiring the receipt or distribution of materials for merchandise and having a floor area of less than 10,000 square feet. The space must be located so as not to hinder the free movement of pedestrians and vehicles over a sidewalk, street or alley.
(5)
All required off-street loading spaces shall be located on the same lot as the building which they are intended to serve, or on an adjacent lot when the loading spaces are shared with the use occupying said adjacent lot.
(6)
Permanent Reservation. Area reserved for off-street loading in accordance with this Ordinance must not be reduced or changed to any other use unless the permitted use that the off-street loading serves is discontinued or modified. However, equivalent loading space may be provided and approved by the ZONING ADMINISTRATOR.
5.
Stacking Space for Drive-through Facilities.
a.
Stacking spaces shall be provided for any use having a drive-through facility or areas having drop-off and pick-up areas. The following general standards shall apply to all stacking spaces and drive-through facilities:
(1)
Stacking spaces and lanes for drive-through stations shall not impede on- and off-site traffic movements, shall not cross or pass through off-street parking areas, and shall not create a potentially unsafe condition where crossed by pedestrian access to a public entrance of a building.
(2)
Drive-through lanes shall be separated from off-street parking areas. Individual lanes shall be striped, marked or otherwise distinctly delineated.
(3)
Approach lanes for drive-through facilities shall have the following minimum widths:
(a)
One lane: 12 feet per lane.
(b)
Two or more lanes: 10 feet per lane.
(4)
All drive-through facilities shall be provided with a bypass lane with a minimum width of 10 feet.
(5)
Alleys or driveways in residentially zoned areas adjacent to drive-through facilities shall not be used for circulation of customer traffic.
(6)
Each stacking space shall be a minimum of 10 feet by 20 feet.
(a)
Minimum of 10 feet by 20 feet.
(b)
The number of stacking spaces shall be provided as follows:
EXPAND
Activity Type Minimum Stack Measured From
Automated Teller Machine 3 per machine Teller Machine
Bank teller lane 3 per lane Teller Window
Car Wash Stall, automatic 4 Entrance
Car Wash Stall, self-service 1 Entrance
Gasoline Pump Island 20 feet from each end of the pump island
Other Determined by ZONING ADMINISTRATOR
  6.
Use of Parking Spaces.
a.
Use of parking areas generally.
(1)
Required OFF-STREET PARKING areas shall be used solely for the parking of licensed, motor vehicles in operating condition. Required spaces may not be used for the storage of vehicles, boats, recreational vehicles, mobile homes, or building materials.
b.
Use of parking areas for temporary events and sales.
(1)
A portion of a parking lot that allows at least 75 percent of the remaining legal parking spaces to be used for parking in conformance with the standards of this chapter may be set aside for purposes of a temporary event, such as a "tent sale," "sidewalk/parking lot sale," or other permitted activity. These events may not exceed 7 consecutive days in length and may not occur more than once each calendar quarter.
(2)
The property owner and operator of the licensed business at the location are jointly responsible for ensuring that events blocking parking lots do not result in unsafe traffic or circulation conditions and ensuring that there is adequate fire and emergency vehicle access. The Police Chief or his designee may order the event cancelled and removed without hearing or notice if found that the arrangement of the temporary event or sale interferes with safe flow of traffic or emergency vehicle access to a site.
(3)
The property owner, business licensed at the site, and entity responsible for the event are jointly responsible for ensuring there is adequate parking at the event site. The use of public right-of-way for event parking is prohibited. Parking arrangements may be made for use of adjoining or nearby parking areas with a 300 foot radius, but a copy of the agreements shall be in writing and filed with the ZONING ADMINISTRATOR at least 2 working days prior to the event.
(4)
Long-term vendors located in parking lots.
(a)
Temporary long-term use of a parking lot for a vendor (for example but not limited to: Christmas trees, seasonal food sales) that will be located in the parking lot for more than seven consecutive days may be permitted by the ZONING ADMINISTRATOR provided that the vendor has secured an Occupation Tax License and a copy of a written agreement for use of the parking area is submitted to the ZONING ADMINISTRATOR prior to the establishment of the use.
(b)
A site plan showing the location of the facility and an indication of the total number of existing spaces in the parking lot and parking to be removed by the vendor shall be submitted to the ZONING ADMINISTRATOR.
(c)
In no case shall a long-term vendor be permitted to remove more than 5 percent of the subject property's parking spaces from general usage.
B.
Bicycle Parking.
1.
For office development, the developer must provide 1 employee bicycle parking rack or bicycle locker (2-bike capacity) per 7,500 of gross floor area and 1 visitor/customer bicycle parking rack (2 bike capacity) per 20,000 square feet of gross floor area.
2.
For ATTACHED RESIDENTIAL development, the developer must provide 1 tenant bicycle parking rack or bicycle locker (2-bike capacity) per 3 units and 1 visitor bicycle parking rack (2-bike capacity) per 25 units.
C.
Historic Structures.
1.
Sites containing HISTORIC STRUCTURES or their FACADES may be redeveloped provided that this HISTORIC STRUCTURE or FACADE is preserved in its entirety. Such structures or facades are not subject to the BUILDING ENVELOPE STANDARDS; however, additions to the HISTORIC STRUCTURE or FACADE must meet BUILDING ENVELOPE STANDARDS.
2.
In order to better incorporate HISTORIC STRUCTURES and their FACADES into redevelopment scenarios, the following are allowable modifications to the Zoning Ordinance requirements:
a.
HISTORIC STRUCTURE and HISTORIC FACADE BUILDINGS have no minimum parking requirements.
b.
Redevelopment projects incorporating HISTORIC STRUCTURES and HISTORIC FACADES are exempt from the minimum parking requirements for that portion of the project that includes the historic property.
c.
Siting and element requirements of the BUILDING ENVELOPE STANDARDS can be modified for that portion of any redevelopment project that includes a HISTORIC STRUCTURE or its facade that is preserved.
D.
Public Improvements.
1.
The developer/property owner is required to construct all STREETSCAPE improvements according to the STREETSCAPE Standards of §[Chapter] 8.05, as part of the development or redevelopment project.
2.
Examples of required STREETSCAPE improvements may include:
a.
Installing sidewalks, to include curbs and gutters.
b.
Underground utilities, where not already done.
c.
Installing STREET furniture: benches, trash receptacles, bicycle racks, etc.
d.
Installing STREET TREES and STREET LIGHTS.
e.
Dedicating public access easements as necessary to access the pedestrian and bicycle network and greenways.
(Amd. of 12-21-2022 )
ARTICLE 9. - LANDSCAPING, BUFFERS, SCREENING, & LIGHTING

Chapter 9.01. - Landscaping.
A.
Intent.
1.
The intent of this Chapter is to preserve the City's special character, and integrate and enhance new development by promoting quality landscape design that:
a.
Reinforces the identity of the community and each neighborhood;
b.
Anchors new buildings in the landscape;
c.
Provides tree canopies within paved areas; and
d.
Is environmentally sensitive by preserving existing trees, using water conservation techniques, planting native species (when appropriate), and enhancing valuable habitat.
B.
General Provisions.
1.
All development applications shall be accompanied by an appropriate landscape plan. BUILDING permit applications for individual single-family residences will not require landscape plans.
2.
Site Landscape Design.
a.
Landscape improvements shall be an integral part of the overall site design for each property. Landscape improvements shall be designed to complement and enhance the character of the neighborhood and shall follow these requirements:
(1)
Landscaped areas shall be configured to maximize their interconnectivity within the site to natural areas and to landscaped areas in adjacent developments. Small, isolated islands of landscaping should be avoided except as required in parking LOTS and for screening along roadways.
(2)
Enhance functional OPEN SPACE through the creation of outdoor room appropriate to the location and purpose of the OPEN SPACE within the development. This can be accomplished through a combination of plantings, fencing, and berms and by using natural features on site.
(3)
Landscape design shall enhance natural features, drainage ways and environmental resources.
(4)
All landscape improvements shall be designed for mature landscapes.
(5)
Preserve and frame view both into and out of the neighborhood.
(6)
Incorporate the elements of gateway, path, and destination into the design of landscapes. Gateways are entries that provide transitions from one space to another. Pathways are routes that lead to a destination. Destinations are focal points that can include anything from a garden bench at the end of a path to a civic building.
(7)
Landscaping shall be no more than 30 inches tall when located in a SIGHT DISTANCE TRIANGLE.
3.
Landscapes shall use the following xeriscaping design principles to facilitate water conservation:
a.
Well-planned planting schemes;
b.
Appropriate turf selection;
c.
Use of mulch to maintain soil moisture and reduce evaporation;
d.
Zoning of plant materials according to their microclimatic needs and water requirements;
e.
Improve the soil with organic matter if needed;
f.
Efficient irrigation systems; and
g.
Proper maintenance and irrigation schedules.
4.
All landscapes shall maximize the use of native species. Where native material is not appropriate for the intended use or appearance, plant species that are regionally adapted and noninvasive may be used.
5.
Landscapes shall consist of a variety of species to enhance biodiversity. No one species may make up more than 25 percent of the total non-grass plant materials on the site.
6.
Buildings and parking areas shall be located to preserve and promote the health of existing trees, environmental resources, and natural drainage ways. No healthy tree shall be removed unless the root zone is encroached on inside the drip line due to siting of buildings or parking areas. This requirement is not intended to prevent the removal of unhealthy trees in conjunction with site development.
7.
Trees shall be located to provide summer shade and limit winter shade on walks and STREETS.
8.
A combination of plantings, berms, walls, and fences shall be used to BUFFER SENSITIVE HABITAT.
9.
Use BUFFERS to protect the physical integrity of riparian ecosystems. Buffers should be designed in accordance with "Georgia's Best Management Practices for Forestry."
10.
All areas disturbed by construction shall be reseeded to prevent erosion. Native, non-invasive grasses shall be used for revegetation where practical. Weed control is the responsibility of the landowner on all reseeded areas.
C.
New buildings and paved areas.
1.
Anchor STRUCTURES in the landscape through the use of trees, shrubs and groundcover. The size and number of plantings shall be appropriate to the size and context of the improvements.
2.
Integrate adjacent land use of different intensities through a combination of berming, planting, and fencing. A fence shall not be the only screening material used.
3.
Use landscaping to provide a transition from developed, managed landscape to more natural vegetation.
D.
Plant Materials.
1.
The minimum planting sizes of all required landscaping shall be 2-inch caliper deciduous trees, 1½ inch caliper ornamental trees, 6 foot tall evergreen trees, and 5-gallon shrubs.
2.
Required plant materials shall be grown in a recognized nursery in accordance with proper horticultural practice. Plants shall be healthy, well-branched vigorous stock with a growth habitat normal to the species and variety and free of diseases, insects and injuries.
3.
All plants shall conform to standards for measurements, grading, branching, quality, ball and bur lapping as stated by the American Association of Nurserymen, Inc. (AANN-ASNS).
E.
Irrigation.
1.
All required landscaping shall be irrigated as required for plant establishment and maintenance. Irrigation shall be appropriate to the type and scope of the improvements.
F.
Guarantee of installation.
1.
Required landscape improvement shall be installed prior to issuance of a certificate of occupancy for all STRUCTURES. If weather conditions prevent installation, the developer shall post a financial guarantee for the improvements. This guarantee shall be released upon completion of the installation of the landscaping.
G.
Maintenance.
1.
In order to provide for the ongoing health and appearance of landscape improvements, all landscaping shall be maintained and replaced by the landowner/occupant as necessary. All property owners/occupants shall be responsible for maintenance of landscaping within the portion of the public RIGHT-OF-WAY between the back of the curb or STREET pavement and the adjacent property.
H.
Landscaping design standards.
1.
All development must comply with the Watkinsville Urban Forest Ordinance.
2.
Within the commonOPEN SPACE the developer or assigns shall provide:
a.
Street Trees.
(1)
STREET TREES shall comply with Chapter 7.03B[8.05B].
b.
Live groundcover, including a combination of grass, trees, flowers, or shrubs along collector and local STREETS. In commercial areas, this area may be paved if it functions as pedestrian access to storefronts and is integrated into the overall design of the other improvements on the site.
c.
Live groundcover as appropriate to the use and function of the area, including a combination of grass, trees, flowers, paving, and 1 shrub for every 100 square feet of landscape area clustered into planting beds along ARTERIAL STREETS.
d.
Landscaping for required common OPEN SPACE shall be appropriate to the use and function of the area and include trees, shrubs, groundcover, irrigation (where necessary), and paving. A mechanism for long-term maintenance of common OPEN SPACE shall be submitted with the plan.
I.
Detached Residential.
1.
In addition to required STREETSCAPE landscaping, the developer or assigns shall provide:
a.
A combination of sod, shrubs, ornamental grass, groundcover, and trees (shade and ornamental) to cover the front yard of each home.
b.
Live materials shall constitute at least 75 percent of the front YARD coverage.
c.
HARDSCAPES and/or mulch shall cover the remaining front yard not dedicated to live materials.
J.
Attached Residential.
1.
In addition to trees required by the Watkinsville Urban Forest Ordinance, the developer or his assigns shall:
a.
Install a minimum of 1 shrub per 100 square feet of landscaped area. Shrubs shall be grouped and distributed throughout the site. Shade trees may be substituted for up to ½ of the required shrubs at the rate of 1 tree for 10 shrubs.
b.
Install irrigated turf maintained to appropriate standards for active recreation in areas that will function for active recreation.
c.
Live materials shall cover at least 75 percent of the disturbed LOT not occupied by buildings, active recreation facilities, or parking.
d.
Landscape SETBACK to parking lots shall be 25 feet from the STREET. This SETBACK may be reduced to 15 feet if used in combination with a 4-foot masonry or stone decorative wall.
K.
Business, commercial, and industrial development.
1.
Landscape improvements shall be designed to enhance the overall appearance of the development and integrate the project with adjacent land uses and into the surrounding neighborhood. All improvements shall be designed to take into consideration the people who will use the site and travel through or by the site and adjacent land uses.
2.
The developer or assigns shall:
a.
Site trees in a quantity that meets the standards of the Watkinsville Urban Forest Ordinance.
b.
Plant a minimum of 1 shrub per 100 square feet of landscaped area. Group shrubs and distribute throughout the site. Shade trees may be substituted for up to ½ of the required shrubs at the rate of 1 tree for 10 shrubs.
c.
Establish irrigated turf grass maintained in areas that will function as OPEN SPACE. There shall be a minimum of 75 percent live materials between the building and the STREET.
3.
Landscape SETBACK to parking LOTS shall be 25 feet from the STREET. This SETBACK may be reduced to 15 feet if used in combination with a 4-foot masonry or stone decorative wall.
4.
Loading areas, service and storage areas shall be screened so as they are not visible from the public RIGHT-OF-WAY or adjacent property with an opaque screen that is an integral part of the building architecture or by landscaping. Alternative materials including, without limitation, chain link fencing with slats, tires or used building materials are not acceptable screening materials.
5.
Integrate improvements on the subject property with adjacent land uses by utilizing a combination of landscaping, building orientation and appropriate architectural elements.
Chapter 9.02. - Buffering and screening.
A.
Intent.
1.
It is the intent of this Chapter to integrate adjacent land uses and provide seamless transitions from one use to another through the use of building orientation and access, landscaping, and appropriate architectural elements.
B.
General Provisions.
1.
Special consideration shall be given to adjacent land uses of different intensities. It shall be the responsibility of the developer of the more intensive use to ensure that the transition from one use to another is attractive and functional and minimizes conflicts between the current and planned uses.
2.
It is the responsibility of the developer of the higher intensity use to demonstrate that the uses will be compatible. This can be accomplished through the effective use of shared access and parking, appropriate building orientation and SETBACKS, landscaping, architectural treatment and limited use of fencing and screening walls. Special consideration shall be given to the impact of aesthetics, noise, lighting, and traffic.
3.
Buffering is required between any development and adjacent NATURAL AREA or ENVIRONMENTALLY SENSITIVE AREA.
4.
Under no circumstances shall a fence be the only screening material used as a BUFFER between land uses.
C.
Location and screening of required loading and service areas.
1.
Loading docks, dumpsters, recycling containers and other service areas shall be placed to the rear or side of BUILDINGS in visually unobtrusive locations.
2.
Screening and landscaping shall prevent direct views of the loading and service areas and their driveways from adjacent properties or from the public RIGHT-OF-WAY.
3.
Screening and landscaping shall also prevent spillover glare, noise or exhaust fumes. Screening and BUFFERING shall be achieved through walls, architectural features and landscaping and shall be opaque, and be sometimes referred to as a "structural buffer." Recesses in the BUILDING or depressed access ramps may be used.
D.
Dumpsters.
1.
All dumpster sites:
a.
Shall be located to facilitate collection and minimize any negative noise, visual or odor impact on persons occupying the development site, neighboring properties or public rights-of-way; and
b.
Constructed to allow for collection without damage to the development site or the collection vehicle.
c.
Screened to prevent them from being visible to:
(1)
Persons located within any DWELLING UNIT on residential property other than that where the dumpster is located;
(2)
Occupants, customers or other invitees located within any BUILDING on non-residential property other than that where the dumpster is located; and
(3)
Persons travelling on any public STREET, sidewalk or other public way.
E.
Mechanical Equipment.
1.
The following shall be placed away from any BUILD-TO-LINE, not be stored or located within any STREET, and be screened from view from the STREET:
(1)
Air compressors.
(2)
Mechanical pumps.
(3)
Exterior water heaters.
(4)
Water softeners.
(5)
Meters or boxes.
Figure 33. Electrical boxes near the front entry—Unacceptable
Chapter 9.03. - Landscape plans.
A.
Landscape Plans required by this Ordinance shall be illustrated as described below:
1.
General requirements for all landscaping and buffer plans.
a.
Landscaping and buffer plans shall be drawn at a scale of 1 inch - 20 feet to 50 feet, as needed to clearly illustrate the proposed plantings. Multiple sheets keyed to an index sheet may be used.
b.
Caption.
(1)
Each plan sheet is to include:
(a)
The name of the development and its acreage (or square footage if less than an acre).
(b)
Name, address, telephone and fax numbers of the property owner and sub divider or developer.
(c)
Name, address, telephone and fax numbers of the applicant.
(d)
Name, address, telephone and fax numbers of the individual or company responsible for the design. The name, registration number and seal of the landscape architect by whom the plan was prepared shall be stamped on the plan and signed.
c.
The location and size of all utilities on the site, including the limits of any public or private utility easements and stormwater detention areas, are to be shown.
d.
Plant materials.
(1)
Standards and requirements for the quality and type of plant materials and their installation and required in §9.01D.
2.
Landscaping Plan.
a.
Landscaping plans must include the following, as appropriate to the landscaping requirements of this Zoning Ordinance:
(1)
The location of all existing and proposed parking areas, sidewalks and other paved or impervious surfaces.
(2)
The outline of all existing and proposed buildings and STRUCTURES.
(3)
The boundaries of all natural areas, stream Buffers and other areas required to remain undisturbed, and an illustrated description of the protective fencing and signage to be placed around such areas, along with a note regarding protection of undisturbed areas as follows:
(a)
"Undisturbed Area Notes. All protection devices for undisturbed areas must be installed and inspected prior to clearing, grubbing or grading. Call the City for an inspection.
Tree protection shall be vigorously enforced. No activities of any kind are to be allowed within any area shown to be undisturbed on this plan.
The retention and planting of trees as shown on this plan must be verified prior to issuance of a Certificate of Occupancy or acceptance of the project. Call the City for an inspection.
A maintenance inspection of trees will be performed prior to the expiration of the 2-year maintenance period. Project owners at the time of the maintenance inspection are responsible for compliance with the provisions of this plan and the Watkinsville Zoning Ordinance."
(4)
The boundaries of each landscape area required by this Zoning Ordinance or conditions of zoning approval.
(5)
A planting plan showing:
(a)
The location, size, and common name of proposed plant materials in required landscaping areas or as otherwise required by this Zoning Ordinance or conditions of zoning approval.
(b)
For individual LOTS in a residential subdivision, standards may be listed on the plan that are to be met for each lot, such as the number, type, and caliper of new trees (front and back), in lieu of illustrating such trees on each lot. Such standards must include the following notation clearly legible in bold type:
"These planting standards must be met on a lot prior to issuance of a Certificate of Occupancy or approval of permanent power for the residence constructed thereon."
(6)
The location, size, and common name of all existing plant materials to be retained that contribute to meeting the minimum requirements of this Ordinance.
3.
Submittal Standards for Landscape Plans.
a.
All DEVELOPMENT REVIEW APPLICATIONS and applications for VARIANCE will be accompanied by the appropriate landscape plan.
b.
Preliminary Landscape Plan.
(1)
The preliminary landscape plan shall be submitted with the preliminary plat and shall:
(a)
Illustrate the master landscape plan for the development; and
(b)
How the proposal is consistent with the purpose and intent of these regulations.
(2)
Landscaping shall be included on the preliminary OPEN SPACE plan if it can be clearly illustrated and the scale is not greater than 1" = 100'.
(3)
Information required on the plan as listed in "Landscape Plan Information" (See Appendix).
c.
Final Landscape Plan.
(1)
The final landscape plan shall be submitted with the final plat and shall:
(a)
Describe the design intention and how the proposal is consistent with the preliminary landscape plan.
(b)
The final landscape plan must be on a separate page from the final plat map and shall be included with the final OPEN SPACE plan if it can be clearly illustrated. The scale shall not be greater than 1" = 50'.
(2)
Information required on the plan as listed in "Landscape Plan Information" (See Appendix).
d.
Buffer Plan.
(1)
A BUFFER plan shall be prepared for any buffer required in accordance with this Ordinance. The buffer plan shall show:
(a)
The boundaries of each required BUFFER area.
(b)
The location and size of all utilities on the site, including the limits of any utility easements and stormwater detention areas.
(c)
For each NATURAL AREA BUFFER, the plan must show:
(i)
Methods to be employed to protect the drip line areas of the trees in the BUFFER from disturbance during construction, including fencing details, erosion control, signage, etc., along with a note regarding protection of undisturbed areas as shown in §[Chapter] 9.03.A.2.(3)(a) (undisturbed areas note).
(ii)
Proposed supplemental planting required to maintain the opaque visual screen required.
(d)
For each BUFFER the plan must show:
(i)
All grading and construction details for earthen berms, walls, and fences that are proposed as part of the opaque visual screen.
(ii)
A planting plan showing the location, size, and type of proposed plant materials.
(iii)
The location, size, and common name of all existing plant materials to be retained that contribute to meeting the requirements of this Ordinance for BUFFERS.
(iv)
Typical cross-sections of the BUFFER illustrating the improvements proposed and typical location of vegetation. At least one cross-section shall be provided for each buffer.
Chapter 9.04. - Storm Drainage Facilities.
A.
Intent.
1.
The intent of this Chapter is to require innovative and effective land and water management techniques that protect and enhance water quality.
B.
General Provisions.
1.
Landscaping associated with storm drainage facilities shall be integrated into the overall design of the project.
2.
It shall enhance the overall appearance of the project, prevent erosion and improve water quality of stormwater runoff.
3.
Storm drainage facilities may function as OPEN SPACE for active recreation, trail corridors or habitat enhancement areas if they are designed appropriately and approved by the City.
4.
The use of planting strips and shallow, landscaped depressions in parking LOTS and along roads is required to help trap and remove pollutants from stormwater runoff. (See Land Development Provisions to Protect Georgia Water Quality, School of Environmental Design, The University of Georgia, October 1997.)
C.
Applicability.
1.
All storm drainage facilities shall be landscaped and maintained in accordance with the Watkinsville Storm Drainage and Stormwater Management's Ordinance.
D.
Minimum Requirements.
1.
All facilities shall be seeded to grass appropriate to the function of the area. Areas to be used for active recreation shall be seeded to a turf-type grass and irrigated with a permanent irrigation system. Areas to be maintained for habitat enhancement shall be seeded to native grasses and wildflowers. The developer is responsible for establishment of a complete, weed-free stand of grass.
2.
Maximum side slope on drainage facilities shall be 4:1 and minimum slope of the bottom of a drainage facility shall be ½ percent.
3.
Landscape improvements shall be designed to enhance the function of the facility.
4.
Habitat and water quality enhancement, including wetland plantings in low wet areas, is encouraged.
E.
Ownership and maintenance.
1.
All drainage facilities shall be owned and maintained by the landowner or occupant.
(Amd. of 12-21-2022 )
Chapter 9.05. - Exterior lighting.
A.
Intent.
1.
It is the intent of this chapter to:
a.
Create an attractive lighting system to enhance visibility and safety, while minimizing glare and contrast.
b.
Encourage exterior lighting that is functional, aesthetically pleasing and complementary to the architectural style of the BUILDING.
B.
General provisions.
1.
Evaluation of exterior lighting.
a.
Evaluation of exterior lighting.
(1)
Exterior lighting shall be evaluated in the development review process to ensure that the functional and security needs of the project are met in a way that does not adversely affect the adjacent properties or neighborhood. The degree to which exterior lighting affects a property owner or neighborhood will be examined considering the light source, level of illumination, hours of illumination and need for illumination in relation to the effects of the lighting on the adjacent property owners and the neighborhood.
(a)
Outdoor lighting is necessary but must not be used on a property so that the scale of the fixture or amount of light overpowers the building.
(b)
Lighting may be used to illuminate entrances to highlight ornamentation. Lighting shall not be used to wash and entire building facade in light.
(c)
Minimize visual impacts of the site and architectural lighting.
(d)
Use exterior light sources with a low level of LUMINESCENCE.
(e)
Use white lights that cast a similar color to daylight.
(f)
HIGH INTENSITY LIGHTS are prohibited.
b.
Light style.
(1)
The style of lights shall be consistent with the style and character of architecture proposed on the site.
c.
Concealed or fully shielded lighting.
(1)
Light sources shall be concealed or fully shielded to minimize the potential for glare and unnecessary diffusion on adjacent property and to direct light away from the vision of passing motorists. All lights shall be directed downward and the light source shall be equipped with "cut-off" devices so that it will not be visible from any adjacent property. Flagpole lighting shall be permitted to be directed upward as long as the light source is shielded and not visible from any adjacent property. Light fixtures installed under canopies, AWNINGS, overhangs and similar shall be fully recessed.
d.
Prohibited types of lighting.
(1)
Bright floodlights.
(2)
Fluorescent LIGHTS.
(3)
Fixtures that are historically inaccurate for Watkinsville's history.
(4)
Bare floodlights without reflectors.
(5)
WALL PACKS.
(6)
Neon.
e.
Hours of lighting operation.
(1)
All non-residential parking lot lighting fixtures and exterior BUILDING LIGHTS, except those required for security purposes, shall be extinguished within one hour after the close of business and remain extinguished until no more than one hour prior to the beginning of business hours. If a portion of a parking lot is used after dark, only that portion shall be lighted.
f.
Height standards for lighting.
(1)
Residential zoning districts.
(a)
Light fixtures shall be mounted on fiberglass or painted metal poles no higher than 16 feet from the ground. Lighting mounted on a building or structure shall not exceed the height of the building or structure. Bollard-type lighting fixtures shall be between three and four feet high.
(2)
Non-residential zoning districts.
(a)
Light fixtures shall be mounted on concrete, fiberglass or painted metal poles no higher than 25 feet from the ground. Lighting mounted on a building shall not exceed the height of the building or structure. Bollard-type lighting fixtures shall be between three and four feet high.
(3)
Exemption for outdoor recreational uses.
(a)
Because of their limited hours of operation and their unique requirements for nighttime visibility, ball diamonds, playing fields, tennis courts, and other similar outdoor recreational uses, shall be exempt from the general provisions of this Chapter during times of use.
ARTICLE 10. - OUTDOOR DINING AND SPECIAL EVENT FACILITIES[2]
Outdoor dining enlivens the pedestrian environment. For ease of access, outdoor dining areas must be designed to allow unimpeded pedestrian passage around or through them. Outdoor dining helps create a visually attractive streetscape while promoting retail activity.

Footnotes:
--- (2) ---
Editor's note— An amendment of February 16, 2022 , § 1, amended article 10 to include special event facilities. The title of article 10 and the title of chapter 10.01 were amended at the discretion of the editor.

Chapter 10.01. - Standards—Outdoor dining.
For outdoor dining to be permitted within the public right-of-way, all of the following standards must be met:
A.
Location.
1.
Outdoor dining is limited to the area approved by the city as specified on the permit application.
2.
Outdoor dining operation shall provide not less than five contiguous feet of sidewalk clear of obstructions and parallel to the street, to allow unimpeded pedestrian traffic. At street corner intersections, there shall be a minimum of five feet of unobstructed sidewalk.
A minimum of five feet back from both handicap ramps is required.
Obstructions shall include, but not be limited to, light poles, traffic signal poles, fire hydrants, utility structures and street signs. Further, the location of outdoor dining cannot obstruct the clear sight distance for vehicles or access or crossings for the disabled.
Figure 34. Tables and chairs must be kept out of sight
triangles
3.
Clear unobstructed height of seven feet shall be maintained between the sidewalk surface and overhead objects including umbrellas.
4.
A minimum clearance of five feet shall be maintained between the outdoor dining space and edge of driveways, alleys, curbs or tree islands.
5.
The outdoor dining space shall not block access to public amenities like street furniture, trash receptacles, and way finding or directional signs or existing obstructions (i.e., fire hydrants).
B.
Design.
1.
Outdoor dining furniture shall be constructed of durable material. Plastic and unfinished or pressure treated wood is not permitted.
2.
Perimeter posts, planters, decorative metal fencing not exceeding three feet in height, pots, hanging baskets or markers may be used to delineate the outdoor dining space.
Figure 35. Outdoor Dining Space
3.
Tabletop signage is limited to menus and must not exceed two square feet in area.
4.
There can be no more than two umbrellas per table and umbrellas must be fixed such as to leave a clear height of seven feet from the sidewalk surface.
5.
Umbrellas are not allowed on tables located within ten feet of block corners.
C.
Operation.
1.
Outdoor dining is permitted in the front of a restaurant property or on the side or in the rear if in a COURTYARD.
Figure 36. Outdoor dining in front of restaurant
2.
Waiters are permitted to access all pedestrian space between the building and the designated outdoor dining space to serve the diners.
Figure 37. Courtyard
3.
Tables, chairs, planters and pots may remain in the designated outdoor dining area throughout the permit period. All umbrellas, signage and other accessories however, must be removed from the dining area at the close of business each day.
4.
Outdoor dining areas are permitted to be open until 10:30 p.m. daily.
5.
A host stand and table top candles are allowed within the approved dining area. However, these accessories have to be removed from the dining area at the close of business.
6.
No tents or cash registers are permitted within the outdoor dining area.
7.
Outdoor dining areas shall not run electrical cords from the restaurant building.
8.
Where beer and wine are served, the permit hold must comply with all state and local regulations for the sale, possession and/or consumption of beer and wine.
9.
Loudspeakers are prohibited.
D.
Maintenance.
1.
The permit holder is responsible for keeping the immediate area covering six feet on all sides from the edge of the designated outdoor dining area clean of garbage, food debris, paper, cups or cans associated with the operation of the outdoor dining space on a daily basis. All waste and trash must be properly disposed of by the permit holder.
2.
The permit holder is responsible for the maintenance, upkeep and security of furniture and accessories used in the outdoor dining area.
3.
Sidewalks within and adjacent to the outdoor dining area must be washed down and cleaned on a daily basis by the permit holder. Any stains from spills must be removed. Soiled pavement not able to be cleaned must be replaced by the permit holder. Water and detergents used for cleaning must not drain into tree walls.
4.
Umbrellas and other outdoor dining area furniture shall be kept clean, safe, and attractive.
5.
The permit holder is responsible for paying any costs resulting from damage to public space due to the outdoor dining operation. Repairs may also be contracted to third parties. However, the permit holder is responsible to ensure that the contract work meets the city streetscape standards.
6.
Outdoor dining space is subject to inspection by the City's building inspector or code enforcement officer for compliance with these standards.
(Amd. of 2-16-2022 , § 1)
Note— See editor's note, article 10.
Chapter 10.02. - Standards—Special event facilities.
A.
Criteria. To protect the integrity of existing neighborhoods, SPECIAL EVENT FACILITIES are allowed only in qualifying historic residences on primary thoroughfares at an existing intersection, only at residences contiguous to or within 100 feet of a current commercial use and the residence is over 3,000 square feet and on a parcel or parcels over 2.75 acres, and only in compliance with all conditions herein. SPECIAL EVENT FACILITY OPERATORS shall, after meeting all criteria and securing mayor and council approval, obtain an annual occupation tax permit for a fee set forth in the schedule of fees, which shall constitute a SPECIAL EVENT FACILITY OPERATOR license.
B.
Application. An applicant shall submit the following for review: A completed signed application; a floor plan specifically denoting square footage of the residence and portions of the residence allotted for special event use illustrating that the operation will comply with all ordinances and regulations; a plat of survey by a state registered surveyor which shows all improvements; a nonrefundable license application fee per the schedule of fees and charges in addition to the annual license fee, such as required inspection fees, as established by Council resolution. All fees must be paid at the time the application is submitted.
C.
License requirements. No more than three SPECIAL EVENT FACILITY OPERATOR licenses shall be issued in the city per year. No license shall be granted until the premises has been inspected by appropriate building, fire, and health code officials with their written findings that the residence and areas to be used for special events are in safe and satisfactory condition and compliant with all applicable codes. All licenses shall be for one year or until December 31 of the year application is made, whichever is earlier. OPERATORS shall report at the time of licensing the number and size of special events for the preceding year.
D.
Criteria. To grant, renew, suspend or revoke a license, council shall consider:
1.
Compliance herewith and all relevant laws, ordinances, regulations and resolutions.
2.
Business reputation of applicant/license holder.
3.
Conduct of the business of applicant/license holder.
4.
Effect on neighborhood: impact on residential properties, traffic, parking, deliveries, noise, dust, vibration, odor, smoke, glare, light, pollution, property values, etc.
5.
Effect on city services.
6.
Special conditions and compliance therewith, as part of a conditional use permit.
7.
Other relevant issues, including but not limited to public health, safety, morals, interest and convenience. Council, in its reasonable discretion, shall consider all relevant circumstances which may reflect on the applicant/license holder, the application or proposed location. If, in its reasonable judgment, grant, suspension, or revocation would or would not be in the best interest of the general public, such is grounds for the decision of council.
E.
Conditions. OPERATORS may only be licensed under the following conditions:
1.
OPERATORS shall obtain a SPECIAL EVENT FACILITY license, remit any required fees, and provide proof of insurance which shall be maintained at all times during events. A policy or policies of comprehensive general public liability insurance shall include personal injury and property damage coverage, not less than $1,000,000.00 for bodily injury or death to any one person, not less than $2,000,000.00 per occurrence incident involving bodily injury or death, and not less than $500,000.00 for property damage. All such insurance shall be underwritten by an insurance company which appears in the U.S. Department of Treasury Circular 570.
2.
A SPECIAL EVENT FACILITY license shall be valid for one weekend special event per week and one weekday special event per week. One special event on two consecutive calendar days shall be a single special event. These limits are to avoid a use potentially inconsistent with the residential use and character of the home and the neighborhood.
3.
OPERATORS shall be present on premises for all events and maintain a log listing location, date and time of each special event and number of guests for each special event.
4.
The grant of a license shall be a privilege, not a right. A license shall be immediately voided on the sale, lease, or transfer of the real estate. Operation shall be respectful of neighboring residences and not extend beyond the standards herein nor the requirements and conditions of zoning. No for-profit activity or commercial operations shall be conducted on premises with the exception of special event rental revenues.
F.
Event requirements.
1.
Special events that are during non-daylight hours shall conclude by 11:00 p.m. on Friday and Saturdays and by 10:00 p.m. on weeknights (Sunday through Thursday evening), and outdoor music and concerts shall end at 9:00 p.m. all evenings;
2.
Allow only special event activity defined as follows: weddings, receptions, meetings, seminars, conventions, shows and sales;
3.
On allowed special event dates, incidental sale of homeowner produced or designed goods that relate to the historic significance of the premises, in compliance with law;
4.
No signs except: one identifying sign, four square feet, and a directional sign, four square feet; and an event sign, four square feet, is permissible within 24 hours of the special event;
5.
No formal on-site prepared sit down restaurant style meals, as such would improperly convert SPECIAL EVENTS FACILITIES into restaurants; provided, however, limited meal prep shall be permitted such as in association with a men's or women's group, family reunion or similar, such as smoking BBQ, grilling hamburgers and hot dogs, fish fry or similar non-restaurant meal prep. Catering kitchen for light hors d'oeuvres, finger foods, and beverages is permissible but kitchen must meet local health codes and be approved in writing by the local health code official.
6.
Any malt beverages and wine shall be served by a folly licensed caterer (or state licensed bartender if they meet the requirements of a "licensed alcoholic beverage caterer", meaning any retail dealer who has been licensed per O.C.G.A. 3-4-2, 3-5-2, or 3-6-2. In addition to the city requirements, such organizations must file an application with and pay a fee of $25.00 to the commissioner of the state department of revenue, and receive approval and issuance of the state license), in compliance with all legal requirements.
7.
The use shall be incidental to the residential character and/or setting, meaning no more than two special events per week.
8.
No more than 30 persons per 1,000 square feet of heated residential space, 100 person maximum. For exterior only yard and garden events, no more than 100 persons per acre of yard and garden, 200-person maximum. The premises shall have parking and unloading/loading space on premises sufficient to accommodate special event-related vehicles without adversely affecting local traffic.
9.
OPERATOR shall maintain a registry, of date, time, and number of persons per event.
10.
Vending, vendors, and peddlers are prohibited.
11.
An owner shall be on premises at all times during the special event and responsible for seeing that the provisions above are complied with.
12.
No OPERATOR shall discriminate on the basis of race, color, sex, religion, creed, age or natural origin,
G.
Minimal operational standards.
1.
Special events shall be on the grounds and in the residence, not accessory structure;
2.
No visible exterior changes to the residence or its premises, except typical residential character improvements and maintenance and landscaping improvements;
3.
Bathrooms in sufficient number must be available to all guests;
4.
No pets of guests shall be allowed inside the residence or on premises;
5.
Fencing and/or buffering around the periphery to protect neighbors.
H.
Violations. Should the city serve notice of violation of any of the foregoing, the notice shall advise of the time and location of an informal hearing at a council meeting and the right to present evidence and be represented by counsel. Should council order suspension or revocation of a license or should the alleged violator fail to appear, the suspension or revocation shall take effect at the close of the hearing. Any person aggrieved by a decision may seek a writ of certiorari from superior court specifying the grounds. Such writ shall be obtained within 30 days after the decision of the council.
(Amd. of 2-16-2022 , § 1)
ARTICLE 11. - SENIOR LIVING

Chapter 11.01. - Intent.
A.
SENIOR LIVING is designed to serve the housing needs of senior residents, individuals 55 years or older.
B.
Pursuant to the Housing for Older Persons Act of 1995, at least 80 percent of the occupied units shall be occupied by at least one person who is 55 years or older.
C.
SENIOR LIVING shall be intended and operated for occupancy by persons 55 years of age or older.
D.
SENIOR LIVING shall be located in areas that facilitates pedestrian access to nearby commercial goods and services, and/or amenities or cultural facilities including, but not limited to, parks or libraries.
Chapter 11.02. - Permitted types of senior living.
A.
INDEPENDENT LIVING.
B.
ASSISTED LIVING.
C.
NURSING HOME.
D.
CONTINUING CARE RETIREMENT COMMUNITY.
Chapter 11.03. - Permitted senior living dwellings.
A.
DETACHED RESIDENTIAL.
B.
ATTACHED RESIDENTIAL.
C.
PLANNED GROUP DWELLING.
Chapter 11.04. - Building design standards.
A.
Buildings shall meet the architectural standards of article 6 as well as the standards of the zoning district in which they will be constructed except dwellings shall be limited to a single-story.
B.
Dwellings shall have a minimum square footage of 900 square feet for units with one bedroom and 200 additional square feet for each additional bedroom.
C.
Dwellings shall be limited to a single-story.
D.
All buildings shall incorporate accessibility standards which shall include the following:
1.
Easy access step-free feature at entrances to the dwelling unit.
2.
Easy passage feature requiring 32-inch wide, clear passage doorways throughout the unit.
3.
Easy use feature requiring wheelchair accessible bedroom(s), kitchen, entertainment area, and bathroom(s), via step-free entrance.
Chapter 11.05. - Site design standards.
A.
Maximum density is 6 dwelling units per acre for ATTACHED RESIDENTIAL and 2.2 dwelling units per acre for DETACHED RESIDENTIAL.
B.
A 20-foot grassed or landscaped strip shall be provided between all buildings; and a 10-foot grassed or landscaped strip shall be provided between all buildings and interior driveways/streets.
C.
Sidewalks shall be provided adjacent to both sides of interior streets.
D.
Parking shall be provided in conformance with chapter 8.06.A.4.j.
ARTICLE 12. - MAINTENANCE OF HISTORIC PROPERTIES & BUILDING & ZONING CODE PROVISIONS

Chapter 12.01. - Historic properties.
A.
HISTORIC STRUCTURES within the city shall be kept free from the following structural defects and conditions which threaten the deterioration or loss of such buildings.
Chapter 12.02. - Maintenance.
A.
Owners shall maintain their HISTORIC STRUCTURE as follows:
1.
Foundations. All foundations shall be free of holes, wide cracks and buckling.
2.
Structural members. Floor supports and any structural members thereof must be of sufficient size to carry imposed loads with safety. Members of walls, partitions or other vertical supports must not split, lean, list or buckle so as to jeopardize structural integrity. Structural members of ceilings, roofs or other horizontal structural members must not sag, split or buckle or be of insufficient size to carry imposed loads with safety. Interior staircases shall be maintained in good repair.
3.
Exterior surfaces and materials. Floors, exterior walls and roofs shall not have holes, wide cracks, loose, warped, protruding or rotting boards or any other elements. Exterior surfaces exposed to the weather shall be repaired and weatherproofed, where appropriate, to protect them from deterioration. Masonry joints shall be maintained. Fireplaces or chimneys must not list, bulge or settle or be of insufficient size or strength to carry imposed loads with safety.
4.
Weather protection and ventilation. Buildings, including windows, exterior doors and exterior siding shall be watertight. Exterior flashing, including that at chimneys, doors, and windows, shall be maintained in good repair. Downspouts and gutters shall be maintained so that rain runoff is directed away from the structure. Foundation and attic vents shall be maintained to ventilate the crawl and attic spaces.
5.
Stairways, porches and appurtenances. Exterior staircases, porches and appurtenances shall be maintained in good repair.
6.
Rodent and termite infestation. Structures shall be free of wood boring insects and rodent infestation.
7.
Security. Vacant buildings shall be properly secured, and utilities shall be properly connected or disconnected.
8.
Trees and soil. Tree limbs shall be trimmed away from the building, and tree roots shall be cleared away from all foundations. Soil erosion and soil deposition shall not be allowed to endanger any structures.
B.
Failure to provide minimum maintenance and repair.
1.
Owners shall not allow HISTORIC STRUCTURES to deteriorate by failing to provide minimum maintenance and repair. The failure to provide minimum maintenance and repair adversely impacts the historic and cultural value of the historic community, and due to decay, deterioration and structural defects, jeopardizes structural integrity and poses additional safety hazards. The purpose hereof is to require and owner to engage in the minimum maintenance and repair necessary to correct decay, deterioration, structural defects and safety problems.
C.
Monitoring of condition.
1.
The city staff shall monitor the condition of all historic structures. The city staff shall report all failures to provide minimum maintenance and repair to the building official of the city. Such conditions as those outlined above shall constitute a failure to provide minimum maintenance and repair. (Amended 4/9/2008)
D.
Condition assessment.
1.
The appropriate city official or his designee shall be authorized to enter upon premises for the purpose of making examinations and inspections regarding conformity to the requirements hereunder. Such entry shall be made in such a manner as to cause the least possible inconvenience to any persons in possession. The city may appoint and affix the duties of such agents, designees and employees as reasonably necessary to carry out the purposes of this Section. The city official shall prepare a condition assessment.
E.
Notice and remedy time allowance.
1.
If the mayor and council find a failure to provide minimum maintenance and repair, in nonconformity with the above requirements, the city will give written notice as described herein and set forth the steps necessary to remedy the situation. Notice shall be served upon the owner and all parties in interest. The owner of the property will have 30 days from receipt of such notice to respond in writing and outline his intentions and steps to remedy the situation. The owner of the property will have 60 days from the receipt of such notice to begin the steps necessary to remedy the situation, and shall have 180 days from receipt of the notice to complete the work, unless such time shall be extended due to the expense and/or complexity of the repairs. In no event shall such extension exceed 180 additional days.
F.
Public hearing and recommendation of action.
1.
Within 30 days of receipt of the written notice provided for above, the owner or any other party in interest who takes exception to such notice may request a public hearing on the matter. The owner or other party with an interest shall then be given an opportunity to appear before the mayor and council and present testimony pertaining to the notice issued. Notice of the date, time and place of the hearing shall be given via certified mail. The rules of evidence prevailing in courts of law or equity shall not be controlling in hearings before the mayor and council, although all parties shall be provided a fair and impartial hearing and shall be entitled to examine witnesses and present all relevant evidence. If the mayor and council agree with the original notice, it shall state its reasons for doing so, and shall transmit a recommendation of action and reasons in support thereof, in writing, to the affected party.
ARTICLE 13. - USE REGULATION
The following uses are the only permitted in the City of Watkinsville, and no uses shall occur and no structure shall be erected, structurally altered or enlarged unless the use is allowed as a permitted use, and accessory use, or uses lawfully established prior to the effective date of this ordinance.

Chapter 13.01. - Permitted uses.
EXPAND
Zoning District
Use HM DT SM CC EC MUO SB DR AR PI PRC
Accessory dwelling unit • • • •
Accessory structure unit • • • • • • • • • •
Alternative tower structure • • • • • •
Art studio • • • • • •
Assisted living • •
Attached residential •(3) •(2) • •
Auditorium • • •
Bed and breakfast • • •
Brewery •(5) •(5) •(5)
Car sales, primarily indoor showroom •(5) •(5)
Catering service • •
Cemetery • • •
Club •
Community center •
Continuing care
retirement
community • •
Convenience store • •
Convenience store with gas station • •
Cosmetology/salon • • • • • •
Country club • • •
Daycare center • • •
Daycare home • • • •
Detached residential •(1) • • • • •
Educational facility, preschool • • •
Electrical substation • •
Funeral home or mortuary •
Garage, repair •
Gas station •
Home occupation • • • • • • •
Home office • • • • • • •
Hotel, boutique • • • •
Ice box • •
Independent living • •
Indoor recycling
Facility SEE CONDITIONAL USES & APPENDIX A
Industrial services • •
Institutional use • • • • • •
Light industry • •
Light industry, large scale • •
Live/work unit • • •
Low impact
Agriculture •
Mansion flat • • •
Microblading •
Mini warehouse •
Museum • • •
Newspaper or
printing
establishment • •
Nursing home • •
Office, business • •(4) • •
Office, corporate • • • •
Office, professional • •(4) • •
Park, playground (neighborhood) • • •
Parking lot -
off street • •
Personal care home • •
Planned group dwelling •
Portrait studio SEE CONDITIONAL USES & APPENDIX B
Pulpwood or log yard •
Recreation center/facility (amended 11/14/2009) • •
Religious institution, community • • • • •
Religious institution, mega • • •
Religious institution, neighborhood • • • •
Restaurant, café • • • •
Restaurant, fine • • •
Restaurant, outdoor customer dining area • • • • •
Restaurant, small scale • • • •
Restaurant, specialty • • • •
Retail, large scale •
Retail, small scale • • • • • •
School, private • • • •
School, public •
Services establishment • •
Special event facility
Swimming pool,
private • • • •
Swimming pool, public • •
Townhouse SEE ATTACHED RESIDENTIAL
Upper floor
residential • • •
Vending machine •
Veterinary clinic or hospital • • •
Veterinary clinic or hospital w/boarding •
Warehouse •
Welding shop SEE INDUSTRIAL SERVICES
Wholesale
establishment •
Wholesale
establishment w/
warehouse •
  (1)
Permitted provided that the home retains the scale and character of the STREET. However, primary focus of district is commercial.
(2)
Units must be clustered along the edge of the district and should serve as a BUFFER between more intense nonresidential uses and the stream BUFFER.
(3)
ATTACHED RESIDENTIAL is permitted as a stand-alone use along the edges of the district acting as a transition to lower intensity land uses.
(4)
Permitted in upper story only in multi-story buildings. (Revised 3/14/2012)
(5)
Requires a conditional use permit under 14.12 and 14.13.
(Ord. of 6-19-2019; Ord. of 12-18-2019(7), § 1; Amd. of 9-15-2021 , § 1; Amd. of 2-16-2022 , § 1; Amd. of 5-18-2022 , § 1)
ARTICLE 14. - ADMINISTRATION

Chapter 14.01. - Authority.
A.
The Mayor and Council may from time to time amend the boundaries of the districts established on the Zoning Map and/or the provisions set forth in this Ordinance.
Chapter 14.02. - Application types.
A.
There are two types of applications under this ordinance; a rezoning application; and a DEVELOPMENT REVIEW APPLICATION.
Chapter 14.03. - Rezoning application.
A.
Application Requirements.
1.
A rezoning application must be filed with the City Clerk at least 45 days prior to the MAYOR and COUNCIL meeting at which the request will be heard.
2.
A rezoning application must contain the following information:
a.
A survey of the property prepared by a licensed surveyor showing existing and proposed STRUCTURES and uses, access drives, easements, environmental features, utilities, Buffers, existing zoning, and any other relevant supporting documentation reasonably required by the City to assist in rendering a decision, including concept plans.
b.
A list of adjoining property owners as shown on the tax rolls.
c.
Any additional relevant information the applicant or the Clerk reasonably believes to be pertinent.
d.
Payment of the application fee, as determined by Mayor and Council Resolution. The fee is waived if the APPLICANT is the City of Watkinsville.
e.
A signed statement certifying APPLICANT or the owner represented by the APPLICANT has one hundred percent (100%) ownership or leasehold interest in the property. In case of a lease, the owner must also sign.
3.
Once the application is submitted it cannot be amended. Incomplete applications will not be processed.
B.
Rezoning Application Review.
1.
Zoning Administrator Written Analysis.
a.
The ZONING ADMINISTRATOR shall present the application and all its supporting documents, along with a written analysis of the requested zoning's impact, at the public hearing. The written analysis shall show that the ZONING ADMINISTRATOR has considered the proposed change in relation to the Standard of Review of § 14.03.C.
C.
Public Hearing and Procedures.
1.
Public Hearing Required.
a.
Before enacting an amendment to this Ordinance, a public hearing must be held by the Mayor and Council.
2.
Applicant Notification.
a.
The City Manager or his/her designee must notify the applicant of the date, time, and place of the required public hearing.
3.
Publication of Notice.
a.
Not less than fifteen (15) days, and not more than forty-five (45) days prior to the date of the public hearing, the City Clerk shall cause to be advertised the date, time, place and purpose of the public hearing in a newspaper of general circulation in Watkinsville, GA.
4.
Sign.
a.
Not less than fifteen (15) days prior to the public hearing, the City Clerk shall cause the applicant to have posted in a conspicuous place on the lot or parcel to be rezoned, one (1) or more signs, which shall provide adequate notice of the zoning action. Each sign shall be approximately 32" in height and 24" in width and shall provide adequate notice of the zoning action. At a minimum, the sign must contain the following information: date, time, and location of the hearing, current zoning classification and proposed zoning classification, and a telephone number interested persons can call for additional information.
b.
If, because of circumstances peculiar to the location of the property to be posted, the sign will either be inconspicuous or invisible from any well-traveled right-of-way, the sign(s) shall be posted on the property to be rezoned and on other property in such a location that it is likely to be seen by persons potentially interested in the decision.
5.
Mayor and Council Action.
a.
The Mayor and Council shall hold a public hearing on the application in accordance with §[Chapter] 14.06. After the hearing, the Mayor and Council shall consider the Standards of Review of §[Chapter] 14.03.C and approve, approve with conditions, or deny the application.
b.
Within seven (7) days of its decision, the City Clerk shall notify the applicant in writing.
6.
Withdrawal.
a.
If a rezoning application is withdrawn in writing by the applicant at any time after the publication of the newspaper notice and posting of the required sign, but prior to the public hearing, the same property may not be considered for rezoning until the expiration of sixty (60) days immediately following the withdrawal of the rezoning application. The withdrawal must be in writing and signed by the applicant.
b.
The application will be considered to have been withdrawn if the applicant, his/her authorized agent or his/her attorney fails to appear at the public hearing. By withdrawing in this manner, the same property may not be considered for rezoning until the expiration of sixty (60) days from the date of the scheduled public hearing for which the applicant failed to appear.
7.
Denial.
a.
If the rezoning application is denied by the Mayor and Council, then the same property may not be considered for rezoning until the expiration of six (6) months immediately following the denial of the rezoning by the Mayor and Council.
D.
Standards of Review (Zoning Amendment Criteria).
1.
In the consideration of a rezoning application, the Mayor and Council shall consider factors relevant in balancing the interest in promoting the public health, safety, morals or general welfare against the right of the individual to the unrestricted use of property and must specifically consider the following factors as they may be relevant to the application:
a.
The existing land use pattern;
b.
The possible creation of an isolated district unrelated to adjacent and nearby districts;
c.
The population density pattern and possible increase or overtaxing of the load on public facilities including, but not limited to, school, utilities, public safety, and streets;
d.
The cost to the City and other governmental entities in providing, improving, increasing or maintaining public utilities, schools, streets and other public safety measures;
e.
The possible impact on the environment, including but not limited to, drainage, soil erosion and sedimentation, flooding, air quality and water quality;
f.
Whether the proposed zoning map amendment will be a deterrent to the value or improvement or development of adjacent property in accordance with existing regulations;
g.
Whether there are substantial reasons why the property cannot be used in accordance with existing regulations;
h.
The aesthetic effect of existing and future use of the property as it relates to the surrounding area;
i.
The extent to which the proposed zoning map amendment is consistent with the comprehensive plan;
j.
The possible effect of the proposed zoning map amendment on the character of a zoning district, a particular piece of property, neighborhood, a particular area, or the community;
k.
The relation that the proposed zoning map amendment bears to the purpose of the overall zoning scheme, with due consideration given to whether or not the proposed change will help carry out the purposes of these zoning regulations;
l.
The consideration of the preservation of the integrity of residential neighborhoods shall be considered to carry great weight.
2.
After hearing evidence at the zoning hearing, the Mayor and Council shall apply the evidence of the Standards of Review (Zoning Amendment Criteria) in making its decision. It will not be required that the Mayor and Council consider every criterion contained in the Standards of Review. It shall be the duty of the applicant to carry the burden of proof that the proposed rezoning promotes the public health, safety, morality or general welfare.
(Amd. of 12-21-2022 )
Chapter 14.04. - Development review application.
A.
Application Requirements.
1.
A DEVELOPMENT REVIEW APPLICATION must be filed with the City Clerk at least 45 days prior to the regularly scheduled Mayor and Council meeting for all projects except individual single-family homes in the DR and AR districts.
2.
In addition to the documents required under the Watkinsville Subdivision Regulations, a DEVELOPMENT REVIEW APPLICATION must contain:
a.
An Architectural Building Plan.
b.
A Landscape Plan.
c.
A Traffic Impact Analysis for developments that are reasonably expected to generate more than 1,000 vehicle trip ends during a single day or more than 100 vehicle trip ends during a single hour.
d.
Stormwater Management Plan.
e.
Lighting Plan.
f.
Any relevant information the City Manager or his/her designee reasonably believes to be pertinent.
3.
Payment of the application fee, as determined by Mayor and Council Resolution. The fee is waived if the APPLICANT is the City of Watkinsville.
4.
A signed statement certifying APPLICANT or the owner represented by the APPLICANT has 100 percent ownership or leasehold interest in the property. In case of a lease, the owner must also sign.
5.
Once the application is submitted, it cannot be amended. Incomplete applications will not be processed.
B.
Development Review Application Process.
1.
The ZONING ADMINISTRATOR shall present the application and all its supporting documents, along with a written analysis application's compliance with this Zoning Ordinance to the Mayor and Council at its regular meeting.
2.
The ZONING ADMINISTRATOR shall review the written analysis and application and shall consider the Development Review Criteria of chapter 14.04C and recommend to Mayor and Council approval, approval with conditions, or denial based on its conformance with this Zoning Ordinance.
3.
The Mayor and Council shall consider the record from the ZONING ADMINISTRATOR and shall consider the Development Review Criteria of chapter 14.04C and approve, approve with conditions, or deny the application based on its conformance with the Zoning Ordinance.
4.
Within 7 days of the decision, the City Clerk shall so notify the applicant in writing.
C.
Standards for Review for Development Review Applications.
1.
In reviewing DEVELOPMENT REVIEW APPLICATIONS the ZONING ADMINISTRATOR and the Mayor and Council shall consider the following factors as they may be relevant to the application:
a.
The setback and placement on the LOT of the BUILDING in relation to the average setback, where required.
b.
Exterior construction materials.
c.
Architectural detailing such as CORNICES, brick patterns, and foundation materials.
d.
Roof shapes, forms, and materials.
e.
Proportions, shapes, position, and locations; patterns and sizes of any elements of FENESTRATION.
f.
General form and proportions.
g.
Appurtenant fixtures and other features such as lighting.
2.
After reviewing the application, the Development Review Committee shall apply the evidence of the Standards of Review for Development Review in making its recommendation. The Mayor and Council shall also apply the evidence of the Standards of Review for Development Review in making its decision. It shall be the duty of the applicant to carry the burden of proof that the proposed development promotes the requirements of this Ordinance.
(Amd. of 12-21-2022 )
Chapter 14.05. - Variance.
A.
Owners. Where the owner of one (1) or more adjacent lots of record at the time of the enactment of this Ordinance, does not own sufficient contiguous land to enable him/her to conform to the minimum lot size requirements of this Ordinance; or if the topography, physical shape, or other unique features of such lots of record, prevent reasonable compliance with the setback if used as a building site, then the property owner or agent or representative may make application to the Mayor and Council for a variance. Under no circumstances may a variance be granted for a lot that is created or subdivided after enactment of this Ordinance.
B.
Applications.
1.
All applications for variance shall be submitted to the City Clerk at least 45 days prior to a regularly scheduled Mayor and Council meeting on application forms supplied by the City Manager or his/her designee along with a fee as determined by Mayor and Council. Incomplete applications will not be placed on the agenda.
2.
Applications must be accompanied by the following information:
a.
One (1) copy and one (1) digital version of a written description of the proposal designed to inform the city, in detail, about all aspects of the proposed use and its anticipated impact on the community. The description should include information on the hours of operation, number of employees, number of dwelling units, vehicle trips, noise, water usage, sanitary waste treatment and other relevant concerns identified by the City or applicant.
b.
One (1) copy and one (1) digital version of preliminary building and site plans drawn to scale showing the following information:
(1)
Surveyed plat signed by a registered surveyor.
(2)
Project name.
(3)
Project owner.
(4)
Date, scale, and north arrow.
(5)
Vicinity map.
(6)
Use of adjacent property.
(7)
Exterior dimensions of the site.
(8)
Total project acreage.
(9)
Location, name and width of all existing or proposed streets.
(10)
Location of all proposed structure.
(11)
Location of all off-street parking and driveway serving the project.
(12)
Proposed buffers and/or screening.
(13)
Location, height, fixture type and wattage of site lighting.
(14)
Dumpster locations.
(15)
Rough floor plans, including gross floor area.
(16)
Building height.
c.
Landscape Plan.
d.
The applicant, if other than the local government, must pay the required application fee, as determined by Mayor and Council Resolution, to cover the administrative and advertising costs of the application and sign a statement certifying he/she or the owner represented by the applicant has at least a fifty-one percent (51%) ownership interest in the property. In case of a lease, the owner must also sign.
e.
Once the application is submitted, it cannot be amended. Incomplete applications will not be processed.
C.
Public Hearing Required.
1.
Before enacting an amendment to this Ordinance, one (1) public hearing must be held by the Mayor and Council pursuant to §[Chapter] 14.06.
D.
Applicant Notification and Publication of Notice.
1.
The City Clerk shall cause notice to be published and the property to be posted in accordance with chapter 14.03.C.4 and 5.
E.
Zoning Administrator Review.
1.
The ZONING ADMINISTRATOR shall present the application and all its supporting documents, along with a written analysis of the requested variance's impact, to the Mayor and Council at its regular business meeting the month in which the public hearing on the application is scheduled. The written analysis shall show that the ZONING ADMINISTRATOR has considered the proposed change in relation to the enumerated questions in chapter 14.05.I.1.
F.
Mayor and Council Action.
1.
The Mayor and Council shall hold a public hearing on the proposed use in accordance with chapter 14.05.C. After the hearing, the Mayor and Council shall consider the Variance Criteria of chapter 14.05.I.1 and vote on the application. The Council may approve, approve with conditions, table for further action, or deny the application within seven (7) days of its decision, the City Clerk shall so notify the applicant in writing.
G.
Withdrawal.
1.
If an application for a variance to the Zoning Ordinance is withdrawn in writing by the applicant at any time after the publication of the newspaper notice and posting of the required sign, then the same property may not be considered for a variance by the Mayor and Council until the expiration of at least sixty (60) days immediately following the withdrawal of the application. The withdrawal must be in writing and signed by the applicant.
2.
The application will be considered to have been withdrawn if neither the applicant, his/her authorized agent or his/her attorney fails to appear at the public hearing.
H.
Denial.
1.
If the variance from the zoning ordinance is denied by the Mayor and Council, then the same property may not be considered for a VARIANCE until the expiration of six (6) months immediately following the denial of the variance.
I.
Variance Criteria.
1.
The Mayor and Council may grant variances only upon finding that all of the following conditions exist:
a.
There are extraordinary and exceptional conditions pertaining to the particular piece of property in question because of its size, shape or topography;
b.
The application of this Zoning Ordinance to the particular piece of property would create an unnecessary hardship;
c.
Relief, if granted, would not cause substantial detriment to the public good or impair the purpose and intent of this Zoning Ordinance;
d.
Such conditions are peculiar to the particular piece of property involved;
e.
The special circumstances surrounding the request for a variance are not the result of acts by the applicants;
f.
The variance is not a request to permit a use of land, buildings, or structures which is not permitted by right in the Zoning District involved.
2.
If the following criteria are all met, the yard and other space requirements of the Zoning District in which the property is located may be reduced by the smallest amount that will permit reasonable use of the property as a building site. Such reduction of these space requirements shall constitute a variance. However, in no case shall the Mayor and Council permit any lot in a residential Zoning District to be used as a building site which is less than ninety percent of the Zoning District's minimum area and YARD requirements, based on the district's maximum density.
3.
The power to approve a variance rests with the Mayor and Council.
4.
In granting a variance, the Mayor and Council may impose any other conditions necessary to further the goals of this Ordinance.
5.
The Mayor and Council may establish performance bonds to assure compliance with any requirements it has set for granting a variance. Where a variance is granted for a construction activity requiring a Building Permit, the Building Permit must be obtained and construction must begin within six (6) months of the issuance of the variance. Otherwise, the variance expires after six (6) months.
(Amd. of 12-21-2022 )
Chapter 14.06. - Procedure for conducting a public hearing.
A.
All public hearings held pursuant to this Ordinance shall be conducted as follows:
1.
The presiding officer shall allow the ZONING ADMINISTRATOR to present an overview of the application. Following this presentation, the applicant or the applicant's agent or attorney shall be allowed to present the applicant's case and then shall be afforded an opportunity, prior to the closing of the public hearing, to answer questions and respond to objections of others in attendance. A minimum of ten (10) minutes is allowed for presentation of data, evidence, and opinion by proponents of each zoning decision and a minimum of ten (10) minutes for presentation by opponents of each proposed zoning decision.
a.
Those desiring to speak or make a statement shall be given reasonable opportunity do so but must first be recognized by the presiding officer. Upon rising to speak, the person recognized will state his/her name. The presiding officer shall also request that person furnish a home or business street address.
b.
Groups, affiliations, and associations should designate a spokesperson to speak for the group.
c.
Both proponents and opponents of the matter under consideration shall be given equal time and opportunity by the presiding officer to speak.
d.
Questions shall be directed only to the presiding officer, who shall respond or designate another person for the response.
e.
The presiding officer may limit or terminate the discussion, statements or comments because of time, repetitiveness or irrelevancy.
2.
After all discussion concerning the rezoning application is concluded, the presiding officer shall close the public hearing for that particular application, and shall address each zoning criteria listed in §[Chapter] 14.03.C.
B.
Further Requirements.
1.
Minutes of the hearing will be taken by the City Clerk.
2.
Each person shall have 3 minutes to speak.
3.
Following is an outline of how the meeting will be held:
a.
Hearing called to order.
b.
Proposal or amendment summarized by Zoning Administrator or his designee.
c.
Applicant states his case.
d.
Proponents speak.
e.
Opponents speak.
f.
Applicant may reserve any reserved remaining time.
g.
Hearing closed.
C.
Publication of Standards.
1.
The criteria of §[Chapter] 14.03.C shall be available to the public to aid in the preparation of an amendment to the Zoning Ordinance of an amendment of the Zoning Ordinance or for a change to the City of Watkinsville Zoning Map.
Chapter 14.07. - Permits.
Applicants must comply with all provisions as outlined in Chapter 8, Buildings and Building Regulations of this Code.
(Amd. of 12-21-2022 )
Chapter 14.08. - Developments of regional impact (DRI).
A.
Applicants requesting some type of local government action related to an imminent development project, such as, but not limited to, a request for rezoning, rezoning accompanying an annexation, variance, permit, hookup to a water or sewer system, master or site plan approval, or entering into a contract that reasonably appears to meet or exceed the DRI thresholds established for that development type must be submitted to the Northeast Georgia Regional Development Center for review. (See Chapter 110-12-3 of the Rules of the Georgia Department of Community Affairs.)
B.
If a development project is submitted to the City of Watkinsville for review, then the time deadlines imposed in by this ordinance are suspended until the DRI review process is completed.
Chapter 14.09. - Map amendment.
A.
If, in accordance with this Ordinance, changes are made in the Zoning District boundaries or other information portrayed in the Zoning Map, such changes must be made on the Zoning Map within 30 days after the amendment has been approved by the Mayor and Council together with a numerical entry on the Zoning Map referring to the application on file which states the date of the official action and the brief description of the nature of the changes. No amendment to this Zoning Ordinance which involves a matter portrayed on the Zoning Map is effective until after such change and entry is made on the map.
B.
All changes made to the Zoning Map or matters shown thereon must be in conformity with this zoning code. Any unauthorized change by any person is considered a violation of this Zoning Ordinance and punishable as provided by law and this Zoning Ordinance.
Chapter 14.10. - Disclosure requirements.
A.
Disclosure of Financial Interests.
1.
A city official who knows or reasonably should know he or she:
a.
Has a property interest in any real property affected by a zoning action upon which that official's local government will have the duty to consider.
b.
Has a financial interest in any business entity which has a property interest in any real property affected by a zoning action which that official's local government will have the duty to consider; or
c.
Has a MEMBER OF THE FAMILY having any interest described in paragraph (a) or (b) of this section, shall immediately disclose the nature and extent of such interest, in writing, to the Mayor and Council.
d.
The city official who[sic] has an interest as defined in paragraph (a) or (b) of §[Chapter] 14.10.A.1 shall disqualify himself from voting on the zoning action. The disqualified city official shall not take any other action on behalf of himself or any other person to influence action on the application of rezoning. Disclosures provided for in the section shall be a public record and available for public inspection at any time during normal working hours.
B.
Disclosure of Campaign Contributions.
1.
The notice shall also include the location of the property, the present zoning classification of the property, and the proposed zoning classification of the property. The notice shall further include a statement that "Any opponent of a rezoning action that has made within two years immediately preceding the filing of the rezoning action, campaign contributions aggregating $250.00 or more to a local government official that will consider the application, must file a disclosure with the City at least 5 days prior to the public hearing." The disclosure shall show:
a.
The name and official position of the CITY OFFICIAL to whom the contribution was made; and
b.
The dollar amount and description of each campaign contribution made to the CITY OFFICIAL.
Chapter 14.11. - Appeals.
A.
Any person or persons, who may have a substantial interest constituting legal standing in any decision of the Mayor and Council, may file a petition for writ of certiorari to the Superior Court of Oconee County, Georgia. Such petition shall be filed with the Clerk of said court in the manner required by Georgia law. Such petition shall be filed within thirty (30) days after the decision of the Mayor and Council is rendered. A copy of the petition shall be served on the County Clerk. Upon the filing of a petition, the Clerk of the Oconee County Superior Court shall give immediate notice thereof to the County Clerk who, within thirty (30) days from the time of such notice, shall file with said Clerk of Superior Court, a duly certified copy of the minutes of the proceedings of the Mayor and Council Public Hearing and the decision reached by the Mayor and Council.
Chapter 14.12. - Conditional uses.
A.
Request. Request for Conditional Use shall only be made for potential conditional uses that are specifically listed in this zoning ordinance, and shall be processed in accordance with the following requirements:
1.
Initiation of Amendments.
a.
A proposed Conditional Use may be initiated by the Mayor and Council, or by application filed by the owner(s) of the property, provided, however, no more than one application for Conditional Use affecting the same parcel or parcels of property or any part thereof, shall be filed within a 12 month period, unless said application is withdrawn pursuant to §[Chapter] 14.12.L.
2.
Application Procedure.
a.
Application forms for Conditional Use requests shall be obtained from the City Clerk. Completed forms, together with an application fee plus any additional information the applicant feels to be pertinent, must be filed with the City Clerk at least 45 days prior to the regularly scheduled Mayor and Council meeting. Any communication purporting to be an application for a Conditional Use shall be regarded as a mere notice to seek relief until it is made in the form required.
B.
Application Content.
1.
Applications must be accompanied by the following information:
a.
One (1) copy and one (1) digital version of a written legal description of the property which is the subject of the request, including the current tax parcel number.
b.
One (1) copy and one (1) digital version of a plat of the subject property drawn to scale, prepared and sealed by an architect, engineer, landscape architect or land surveyor whose state registration is current and valid, showing the following information:
1.
Project name.
2.
Project owner.
3.
Date, scale, and north arrow.
4.
Vicinity map.
5.
Use of adjacent property.
6.
Property lines with dimensions and angles of turns.
7.
Location, name and width of adjoining streets with present right-of-way and pavement widths.
8.
Location of existing structures on subject property and adjacent properties.
9.
Total project acreage.
10.
Proposed layout of building locations with driveway and parking lots.
11.
Proposed curb cuts or existing driveways/roadways.
12.
Required buffers and building set back lines.
13.
Identify how utilities are to be provided including, but not limited to, water, sewer, well, and septic tank.
14.
Density per acre and the number of square feet per acre area of total buildings.
15.
Other plans, elevations or additional information as the City Clerk may request showing the proposed conditional use and its impact on natural and built systems.
c.
A written statement of the details of the Conditional Use requested.
2.
The application shall include a notarized signature of the application and, if the applicant is not the current property owner, such application shall include the notarized authorization from the property owner for the requested Conditional Use.
C.
Public hearing required.
1.
Before enacting an amendment to the Ordinance, one (1) public hearing must be held by the Mayor and Council pursuant to chapter 14.06 and chapter 14.13.
D.
Applicant Notification.
1.
The City Clerk must notify the applicant of the date, time and place of the required public hearing.
E.
Publication of Notice.
1.
Not less than 15 days, and not more than forty-five (45) days prior to the date of the public hearing, the City Clerk shall cause to be advertised the date, time, place, and purpose of the public hearing in a newspaper of general circulation in Watkinsville, GA.
F.
Sign.
1.
Not less than 15 days prior to the Mayor and Council public hearing, the City Manager or his/her designee shall cause the applicant to have posted in a conspicuous place on the lot subject to the Conditional Use application, one (1) or more signs, which shall provide adequate notice of the zoning action. Each sign shall be approximately 32" in height and 24" in width and shall provide adequate notice of the zoning action. At a minimum, the sign must contain the following information: date, time, and location of the hearing, current zoning classification and proposed zoning classification, and a telephone number an interested person can call for additional information.
G.
Zoning Administrator Review.
1.
The Zoning Administrator shall present the application and all its supporting documents, along with a written analysis of the requested conditional uses' impact, to the Mayor and Council at its regular business meeting the month in which the public hearing on the application is scheduled. The written analysis shall show that the Zoning Administrator has considered the proposed change in relation to the enumerated questions in §[Chapter] 14.12.K.
H.
Mayor and Council Action.
1.
The Mayor and Council shall hold a public hearing on the proposed use in accordance with §[Chapter] 14.06.A.1, B and C. After the hearing, the Mayor and Council shall consider the Condition Use Criteria of §[Chapter] 14.12.K. and vote on the application. The Council may approve, approve with conditions, table for further action, or deny the application. In approving a Conditional Use request, the Mayor and Council may impose special conditions which it deems necessary in order to make the objectives of the Comprehensive Plan. Such conditions include but are not limited to: setback requirements from any lot line; specified or prohibited locations for buildings, parking, loading or storage areas or other land uses; driveway curb cut restrictions; restrictions as to what land uses or activities shall be permitted; maximum building size; special drainage or erosion provisions; landscaping or planted area which may include the location, type and maintenance of plant materials; fences, walls, berms, or other buffer provisions or protective measures; preservation of existing trees or other vegetation; special measures to alleviate undesirable views, glare, noise, dust or odor; permitted hours of operation; architectural style; a requirement that the existing building(s) be retained; a requirement that the applicant must build according to the site plans as adopted; a limitation on exterior modifications of existing buildings; or any other requirement that the Mayor and Council may deem appropriate and necessary as a condition of the Conditional Use permit. Within seven (7) days of its decision, the City Clerk shall so notify the applicant in writing.
I.
Withdrawal.
1.
If an application for Conditional Use is withdrawn in writing by the applicant at any time after the publication of the newspaper notice and posting of the required sign, then the same property may not be considered for a conditional use by the Mayor and Council until the expiration of sixty (60) days immediately following the withdrawal of the application. The withdrawal must be in writing and signed by the applicant.
2.
The application will be considered to have been withdrawn if neither the applicant, his/her authorized agent or his/her attorney fails to appear at the public hearing.
J.
Denial.
1.
If the Conditional Use is denied by the Mayor and Council, then the same property may not be considered for a conditional use until the expiration of six (6) months immediately following the denial of the conditional use.
K.
Conditional Use Criteria.
1.
The Mayor and Council may grant a conditional use only after determining the Conditional Use will not be contrary to the public interest and that the Conditional Use;
a.
Will not be injurious to the use and enjoyment of the environment or other property in the vicinity, nor diminish and impair property values within the surrounding neighborhood;
b.
Will not increase expenditures in relation to cost of serving neighboring properties or maintaining infrastructure;
c.
Will not impede the normal and orderly development of surrounding property for uses predominant in the area; and
d.
Has a location and character consistent with a desirable pattern of development.
2.
The following evidence must be satisfactorily demonstrated before the four determinations discussed above can be made: however, not conditional use shall be granted in the Attached Residential (AR) or Detached Residential (DR) zones:
a.
Evidence of reduction of adverse environmental impacts to acceptable levels;
b.
Evidence that traffic will not be substantially hindered or endangered;
c.
Evidence that parking and loading will be adequate;
d.
Evidence that public facilities and utilities are capable of serving the proposed use;
e.
Evidence that the use will not cause a damaging volume of commercial use in a stable neighborhood which would lead to decreasing property values, and/or that this use would not lead to additional requests that would expand these problems;
f.
Evidence that the proposed use would not lead to congestion, noise or traffic hazards;
g.
Evidence that the use conforms to the comprehensive land use plan;
h.
Evidence that the use would not have a domino effect creating a "wedge" for further rapid growth beyond that contemplated by the comprehensive land use plan.
3.
Additional Conditional Use Permit Criteria. No application for a conditional use permit shall be granted by the Mayor and Council unless it is determined that in addition to meeting the requirements contained within applicable use standards and the zoning district in which the conditional use permit is located, satisfactory provisions and arrangements have been made concerning each of the following factors, all of which are applicable to each application:
a.
Adequacy of the size of the site for the use contemplated and whether adequate land area is available for the proposed conditional use;
b.
Compatibility with adjacent properties and with other properties in the same zoning district;
c.
Adequacy of the public street on which the use is proposed to be located and whether or not there is sufficient traffic-carrying capacity for the use proposed;
d.
Ingress and egress to the subject property and to all proposed buildings, structures, and uses thereon, with particular reference to pedestrian and automotive safety and convenience, traffic flow and control, and access in the event of fire or other emergency;
e.
Whether the proposed use will create unreasonable adverse impacts upon any adjoining land use by reason of the hours of operation of the proposed conditional use;
f.
Whether the proposed use will create unreasonable adverse impacts upon any adjoining land use by reason of the manner of operation of the proposed use;
g.
Whether there is adequate provision of refuse and service areas;
h.
Whether the length of time for which the conditional use permit is granted should be limited in duration;
i.
Whether the size, scale and massing of proposed buildings are appropriate in relation to the size of the subject property and in relation to the size, scale and massing of adjacent and nearby lots and buildings;
j.
Whether the proposed plan will adversely affect historic buildings, sites, districts, or archaeological resources; and
k.
Whether the proposed plan will have an unreasonable adverse impact on natural resources or environmentally sensitive areas, including floodplains, wetlands, prime plant or animal habitat, or other similar features of unique value to the character of City.
4.
Termination of Conditional Use.
a.
If at any time after a Conditional Use has been issued, the Mayor and Council finds that the conditions imposed and agreements made have not been or are not being fulfilled by the holder, the Conditional Use shall be terminated and such use discontinued. If a Conditional Use permit is terminated for any reason, it may be reinstated only after a public hearing for a new application, and approval thereof.
(Ord, of 2-9-2011; Amd. of 12-21-2022 )
Chapter 14.13. - Mayor and council public hearing and action.
1.
Before taking action on the Conditional Use proposal, the Mayor and Council shall hold a public hearing as described herein above.
2.
So that the purpose of this ordinance will be served and so that health, public safety and general welfare will be secured, the Mayor and Council in its decision on the application may, in its legislative discretion, approve or deny the application as submitted, defer a decision until a specified meeting date, require the applicant to file a site plan or other plans regarding the application and defer action to a later meeting date, or allow a withdrawal of the application by the applicant, if requested.
3.
The withdrawal shall not be subject to the 12-month prohibition on re-filing.
4.
The Mayor and Council may also require that the land area for such application be reduced, or that conditions be added or deleted, as the Mayor and Council deems appropriate.
5.
It is the duty of the applicant to carry the burden of proof regarding his application under this Article.
ARTICLE 15. - LEGAL STATUS PROVISIONS

Chapter 15.01. - Conflict with other laws.
When the provisions of this Ordinance specify more restrictive standards than required by any other stature, the requirements of this Ordinance shall govern. Whenever the provisions of any other statute require more restrictive standards, the provisions of such statute shall govern.
Chapter 15.02. - Repeal of conflict in ordinance.
All ordinances and parts of ordinances in conflict herewith are repealed.
Chapter 15.03. - Code compliance officer.
If the City Manager or his/her designee determines that any person is in violation of this ordinance, the Code Compliance Officer shall issue an order requiring the owner to comply with this ordinance including orders requiring restoration of pre-existing conditions and orders requiring restitution to the city by means that are deemed appropriate by the city. In addition, the city may bring a civil action for enforcement and may seek equitable and injunctive relief under this ordinance.
Any person violating any provisions of this ordinance shall be guilty of a misdemeanor and, upon conviction in Municipal Court shall be punished by imprisonment of not more than 6 months or by a fine of not more than $1,000.00 per day of violation. Additionally, any violation of any provision of this ordinance of failure to comply with any of its requirements shall be grounds for immediate suspension or revocation by the Zoning Administrator of any and all related permits.
(Amd. of 12-21-2022 )
Chapter 15.04. - Severability.
Should any section or part of a section or any provision of this Ordinance be declared by the courts to be unconstitutional or invalid, such declaration shall not affect the validity of the Ordinance as a whole or any part thereof other than the part so declared to be unconstitutional or invalid.
Chapter 15.05. - Effective date.
This ordinance shall take effect and be in force from and after its adoption, the public welfare demanding it.
Adopted this 21 day of December, 2022.
(Amd. of 12-21-2022 )
APPENDIX A - CONDITIONS FOR INDOOR RECYCLING FACILITY
1.
All merchandise and/or scrap material purchased, collected and/or stored must be kept on the interior of the building.
2.
No material deemed hazardous, flammable, toxic or odoriferous may be stored on the premises at any time.
3.
With the exception of lawn maintenance equipment, motorcycles, ATV's, go-cards and/or mini-bikes, no motorized vehicles of any style, size or condition shall be obtained for storage on the premises.
4.
All state statutes and guidelines pertaining to proper record keeping, reference the buying of scrap metals shall be as followed.
APPENDIX B - CONDITIONS FOR A PORTRAIT STUDIO
1.
Four or more acres to insure[ensure] adequate buffer and protection of neighbors.
2.
No exterior/external evidence of commercial use, for example, no parking lot in front of the residence for customer use (parking on the side or preferably behind residence).
3.
Signage: See sign ordinance.
4.
Adequate buffer around both sides and back of property of no less than 50 feet undisturbed foliage, either natural or planted.
5.
Visits from clientele and prospective clientele shall be by appointment only.
6.
All external appearance of the residence shall be consistent with the appearance of home occupations and accessory uses allowed under the Watkinsville Zoning Ordinance, such that there will be no external evidence that this is a portrait studio, other than a six square foot sign.
7.
No retail sales, in other words, no display of art/portraits for sale.
8.
No equipment related to the business allowed outdoors, except during photo shoots.
9.
The existing residence shall be preserved and maintained in good condition, bearing in mind that this is an historic structure that is part of the heritage and fabric of the City of Watkinsville and that this is an asset/resource of the community as a whole.
10.
The applicant agrees that this property will be listed among the historic properties in the City of Watkinsville.
11.
The owner will demonstrate that without the property being used as a portrait studio, it would not otherwise be economically viable to own or sell this particular property.
12.
That the use of this property as a portrait studio be and remain consistent with Watkinsville's theme of being the art land of Georgia.
13.
Such other specific conditions that have a rational basis that will maintain consistency of the use of this residence with surrounding residences, and which are necessary to satisfy the various criteria under the conditional use requirements of the Watkinsville Zoning Ordinance.
14.
If the property is sold or deeded to another person, the conditional use permit shall cease to exist and the zoning will revert to its original zoning classification.
(Ord. of 8-11-2010)
