Chapter 26 - PARKS AND RECREATION[1]

Footnotes:
--- (1) ---
State Law reference— Authority to construct and operate parks, swimming pools, golf courses, recreation grounds and buildings used for sports, O.C.G.A. § 36-34-3; establishment of recreation systems, O.C.G.A. § 36-64-1 et seq.

Sec. 26-1. - Development of municipal recreation programs.
The city council has the authority to develop programs of recreational activities and service designed to meet the leisure time interest and needs of all municipal citizens, and shall have the power to maintain and equip parks, playgrounds, recreation centers, and the buildings associated therewith, and to develop, maintain, and operate all types of recreation facilities, as provided in O.C.G.A. tit. 36, ch. 64 (O.C.G.A. § 36-64-1 et seq.).
(Code 1982, § 23-101; Code 1994, § 28-1)
Sec. 26-2. - Use of grounds and facilities in general.
Each person using the public parks and grounds shall clean up all debris, extinguish all fires when such fires are permitted, and leave the premises in good order and the facilities in a neat and sanitary condition.
(Code 1982, § 23-102(1); Code 1994, § 28-2)
Sec. 26-3. - Prohibited acts.
It shall be unlawful for any person using such parks, grounds, or facilities to either perform or permit to be performed any of the following acts:
(1)
Willfully mark, deface, disfigure, injure, tamper with, or displace or remove any buildings, bridges, tables, benches, fireplaces, railings, paving or paving material, waterlines or other public utilities or parts or appurtenances thereof, signs, notices, or placards whether temporary or permanent, monuments, stakes, posts, or other boundary markers, or other structures or equipment, facilities or park property or appurtenances whatsoever, either real or personal;
(2)
Throw, discharge, or otherwise place or cause to be placed in the waters of any fountain, pond, lake, stream, bay, or other body of water in or adjacent to any park or any tributary, stream, storm sewer, or drain flowing into such waters, any substance, matter or thing, liquid or solid, which will or may result in the pollution of the waters;
(3)
Damage, cut, carve, transplant, or remove any tree or plant or any part thereof;
(4)
Hunt, molest, harm, frighten, kill, trap, chase, tease, shoot, or throw missiles at any animal, reptile, or bird; or remove or have in such person's possession the young of any wild animal, or the eggs, nest, or young of any other animal;
(5)
Bring in or dump, deposit, or leave any bottles, broken glass, ashes, paper, boxes, cans, dirt, rubbish, waste, garbage, refuse, or other trash. No such refuse or trash shall be placed in any waters in or contiguous to any park, or left anywhere on the grounds thereof, but shall be placed in the proper receptacles where these are provided; and where receptacles are not so provided, all such rubbish or waste shall be carried away from the park by the person responsible for the presence of the rubbish or waste, and properly disposed of elsewhere;
(6)
Disturb the peace, or use any language that is reasonably foreseeable to provoke an immediate breach of the peace;
(7)
Endanger the safety of any person by any conduct or act;
(8)
Carry, possess, or drink any alcoholic beverage in the park;
(9)
Violate any rule for the use of the park, made or approved by the city council;
(10)
Prevent any person from using any park, or any of its facilities, or interfere with such use in compliance with this chapter and with the rules applicable to such use;
(11)
Swim, bathe, or wade in any waters or waterways in or adjacent to any park, except in such waters and at such places as are provided therefor, and in compliance with such regulations as are set forth in this chapter or may be hereafter adopted;
(12)
Dress or undress on any beach, or in any vehicle, toilet, or other place, except in such bathing houses or structures as may be provided for that purpose;
(13)
Operate any motorized vehicle, including four wheelers;
(14)
Bring into any park an animal who is not on a leash or harness and under control.
(Code 1982, § 23-102(2); Code 1994, § 28-3)
Sec. 26-4. - Hours of operation.
(a)
The public parks shall be open daily to the public during established operating hours, and it shall be unlawful for any person other than city personnel conducting city business therein to occupy or be present in such parks during any other hours.
(b)
Any section or part of a park, or an entire park, may be declared closed to the public by the city council at any time and for any interval of time, either temporarily or at regular or stated intervals.
(Code 1982, § 23-102(3); Code 1994, § 28-4)
Sec. 26-5. - Group activity; permit required.
(a)
Whenever any sizeable group, association, or organization desires to use any park facilities for a particular purpose, such as picnics, parties, or theatrical or other entertainment performances, a representative of such group, association, or organization shall first obtain a permit from the city clerk for such purpose.
(b)
The city clerk shall grant the application for a permit if it appears that the group, association, or organization will not interfere with the general use of the park by individual members of the public, and if the group, association, or organization meets all other reasonable conditions which may be imposed by the mayor. A deposit may be required by the city as security or such application may contain a requirement for an indemnity bond to protect the city from any liability of any kind or character and to protect city property from damage.
(Code 1982, § 23-102(4); Code 1994, § 28-5)
Sec. 26-6. - Picnic areas and use.
No person in a park shall use any portion of the picnic areas, or of any of the buildings or structures therein, for the purpose of holding picnics to the exclusion of other persons, except when reserved as a group activity as described in section 26-5. Nor shall any person use such area and facilities for an unreasonable time if the facilities are crowded.
(Code 1982, § 23-102(5); Code 1994, § 28-6)
Sec. 26-7. - Other regulations.
(a)
Games. It shall be unlawful for any person to take part in or abet the playing of any games involving thrown or otherwise propelled objects such as balls, stones, arrows, javelins, or model airplanes except in areas set apart for such forms of recreation. The playing of rough or potentially dangerous games such as football, baseball, and soccer is prohibited except on the fields, courts, or areas provided therefor.
(b)
Camping. It shall be unlawful for any person to set up tents, shacks, or any other temporary shelter for the purpose of overnight camping, nor shall any person leave in a park after closing hours any movable structure or special vehicle to be used, or that could be used, for such purpose, such as a house-trailer, camp-trailer, camp-wagon, or the like.
(c)
Fires. It shall be unlawful for any person to build or attempt to build a fire except in such areas and under such regulations as may be designated by the mayor or a designee. No person shall drop, throw, or otherwise scatter lighted matches, burning cigarettes, or cigars, tobacco paper, or other inflammable material within any park area or on any highway, road, or street abutting or contiguous thereto.
(d)
Animals. It shall be unlawful to bring any dangerous animal into any park, and it shall be unlawful to permit any dog to be in any park unless such dog is on a harness or leash not more than ten feet long.
(e)
Automobiles. It shall be unlawful to drive or park any automobile except on a street, driveway, or parking lot in any park; or to park or leave any such vehicle in any place other than one established for public parking.
(f)
Sales. It shall be unlawful for any person to vend, sell, peddle, or offer for sale any commodity or article within any park for personal gain, except charitable organizations, with permission.
(g)
Signs. It shall be unlawful for anyone to paste, glue, tack, or otherwise post any sign, placard, advertisement, or inscription whatever, nor shall any person erect or cause to be erected any sign whatever on any public lands or highways or roads adjacent to a park, except that these provisions shall not apply to any properly authorized government official in pursuit of any official duty.
(Code 1982, § 23-102(6); Code 1994, § 28-7)
