DIVISION 14. - EMPLOYEE ACKNOWLEDGEMENT

Sec. 2-634. - Receipt of handbook; at-will employment statement.
The policies and procedures in the manual are not an implied or written contract. The employment relationship is at-will and may be terminated with or without cause and with or without notice, any time, at the discretion of the city. Only council has the authority to alter the at-will nature of this relationship. This manual is for information purposes only. It does not contain all information you will need during your employment. You will receive additional information through various notices as well as orally through your supervisor, department director, personnel committee and human resources. The city is committed to reviewing its policies, procedures and benefits periodically. Accordingly, the policies, procedures and benefits outlined in this manual are subject to review and change by the city at any time.
Receipt of handbook and employment-at-will statement.
"This is to acknowledge I have received a copy of the handbook and I understand it contains information about employment policies and practices of the city. I agree to read and comply with this handbook. I understand the policies in this handbook will require changes from time to time. I understand the city retains the right to make decisions involving employment as needed to conduct its service in a manner beneficial to employees and the city. I understand this handbook supersedes and replaces prior handbooks and any inconsistent verbal or written policy statements.
I understand, except for the policy of at-will employment, the city reserves the right to revise, delete and add to this at any time without notice. All such revisions, deletions or additions will be in writing and signed by the clerk. I understand no oral statements or representations can change this. I understand this is not intended to create contractual obligations and does not create a contract guaranteeing I will be employed for any specific time.
This city is an at-will employer. This means regardless of any provision in this, the city or i may terminate employment at any time, for any reason, with or without cause or notice. Nothing in this or in any document or statement, written or oral, shall limit the right to terminate employment at-will. No officer, employee or representative is authorized to enter into an agreement—express or implied—with me or any employee for employment for a specified period of time. Any agreement to employment for a specified period of time will be put into writing and signed by the council of the city.
I understand this refers to current benefits and I must refer to the actual documents and descriptions as these documents are controlling. I have read and understand each policy. I understand if a written contract is inconsistent with this, the contract is controlling. If I have questions, I will ask the clerk."
Please acknowledge receipt of your copy of these policies and procedures and return to human resources office for inclusion in your personnel file within three days of employment.
My signature below acknowledges I have received the handbook, and I understand it is my responsibility to read and comply with it.
EXPAND
_____
Printed Name
_____
Signature
_____
Department
_____
Date
  (Ord. of 3-6-2020, ch. 14)
Secs. 2-635—2-653. - Reserved.
