DIVISION 4. - RECRUITMENT AND SELECTION

Sec. 2-364. - Vacant positions.
(a)
Recruitment may be closed to consider only qualified current employees or may be open for public competition. Department directors shall be responsible for notifying human resources of vacant, or soon to be vacant, authorized positions in their department.
(b)
When a vacancy occurs, the city should utilize one or more of the following methods to generate a source of applicants for vacant positions: post on city hall bulletin boards; advertise in a newspaper of local circulation; notify the local state department of labor and others. The announcement for the position should include the title, salary range, minimum qualification requirements, manner of making application, and final date on which applications will be accepted. Reasonable effort shall be made to publicize vacancies so that all potential candidates are informed and qualified persons are attracted to compete. Notice of all vacant positions shall be posted for at least five business days, in the human resources office and all other departments, and other locations designated by human resources.
(Ord. of 3-6-2020, ch. 4(A))
Sec. 2-365. - Application form.
Application shall be made on city application forms and may be supplemented by a resume. Such forms shall include information covering training, experience, education, and other job related information. All applications must be signed by the applicant. Applications shall be taken for vacant positions only. Once a hiring is made, the application forms for individuals not hired shall be maintained for 24 months.
(Ord. of 3-6-2020, ch. 4(B))
Sec. 2-366. - Disqualification.
Human resources may remove from further consideration the application of an applicant who:
(1)
Does not meet the minimum qualifications established for the position;
(2)
Has failed to submit an application within the prescribed time limit;
(3)
Has made false statements of material fact, or practices deception in the application;
(4)
Has an unsatisfactory employment record as to demonstrate unsuitability for employment;
(5)
Has failed to pass a criminal record check or been convicted of a felony or otherwise exhibited dishonesty or public conduct offensive to the sensitivity of the public at large;
(6)
Has any other background information detrimental to employment by the city;
(7)
After an offer of employment has been made, has failed to pass a physical examination or drug screen as prescribed by city policies;
(8)
Has failed to report to duty within the time prescribed in an employment offer;
(9)
Has been employed previously by the city and has been removed for cause, or did not resign in good standing, and is not recommended for reemployment by the department director in the department in which the applicant was previously employed.
(Ord. of 3-6-2020, ch. 4(C))
Sec. 2-367. - Selection.
(a)
Human resources and the department director or designate shall review all applications for employment to determine whether the applicant meets the established standards for employment. When appropriate, examinations of all seemingly qualified applicants may be used, which may be written or oral, or a combination of these. Such tests shall be practical in character and shall relate to the duties and responsibilities of the position for which the applicant is being examined. Examination of applicants may also consist of a review of educational experience necessary to perform the duties of the position.
(b)
The department director and manager shall make a selection from the applicants referred and shall notify human resources of the decision. Thereafter, the selected applicant may be offered employment by the city contingent upon the applicant passing a drug screen and/or physical examination if required.
(Ord. of 3-6-2020, ch. 4(D))
Sec. 2-368. - Needs of city.
The chief purpose of all city employment is to serve the needs of the city, taxpayers, and citizens. the best interests and needs of the city are paramount in all matters, including administration of these policies. Council reserves the right to change department directors, clerks and supervisory personnel under their respective control and authority when the needs of the city or department require same.
(Ord. of 3-6-2020, ch. 4(E))
Sec. 2-369. - Nepotism; hiring of relatives.
(a)
It is the policy of the city not to employ members of an employee's immediate family in the same department or to work under the same supervisor. The policy will not allow two members of an immediate family to be employed at the same time if such employment will result in an employee supervising directly or indirectly a member of the employee's immediate family. If a conflict of this policy would occur with the marriage of two employees of the city, one spouse must be transferred so as to comply, provided a position is available. If no position is available, one spouse must resign. If a transfer or promotion of an employee would violate this policy, the transfer or promotional opportunity may be denied.
(b)
Immediate family for the enforcement of this personnel manual is defined as spouse, domestic partner ("dwelling together continuously and openly in a meretricious relationship with another person"), parents, son, daughter, brother, sister, and grandparents whether by blood or by law. No family member of any city elected officials shall be hired into a position that violates the above policy for the duration of that elected official's term of office.
(c)
Employees currently working for the city, in the same department with immediate family, on or before May 2018, will be exempt for the purpose of their current position only. This policy applies to promotions, demotions, transfers, reinstatements, and new employees.
(Ord. of 3-6-2020, ch. 4(F))
Sec. 2-370. - Approved exceptions from vacancy announcement process.
While the substantial majority of job vacancies meet the criteria for posting, there are a few circumstances that do not warrant advertisement of positions. The following is the listing of special staffing situations that, with the recommendation of the department director and concurrence of the human resources director, may be exempted from the competitive job posting process:
(1)
Positions filled by council appointment;
(2)
Reassignments or voluntary transfers at the same grade level;
(3)
Management directed reassignments at the same grade level;
(4)
Reorganizations and reductions in force that require reassignment to newly created or existing vacancies;
(5)
Position upgrades of jobs that are currently encumbered that result in reclassifications to a higher grade level. (Internal promotions in rank within the police department are similar to position upgrades and likewise do not require external job postings.)
(6)
Furlough days at the discretion of council due to financial necessity.
(Ord. of 3-6-2020, ch. 4(G))
Sec. 2-371. - Types of employment.
(a)
Full-time. A full-time employee shall be non-exempt, appointed to a position to work not less than 30 nor more than 40 hours per week on a continuing (indefinite) basis and receiving full benefits.
(b)
Full-time salaried. A full-time salaried employee shall be exempt and one appointed to a position of supervisory, managerial, or professional position that is paid on an annual basis who receives a predetermined amount on each pay date. This amount cannot be changed no matter how many days or hours the employee works. The employee will receive an agreed upon amount each week (agreed upon amount divided by 52 weeks). See also: exemptions under personal paid leave, division 10 of this article.
(c)
Elected/appointed officers. Elected members include council. Elected members do not receive benefits.
(d)
Part-time. A part-time employee shall be non-exempt, appointed to a position to work at least 20 but less than 30 hours per week on a continuing (indefinite) basis. Benefits: See section 2-484 and division 10 of this article.
(e)
Temporary. An employee appointed to a position with no guaranteed employment continuation and receiving no benefits. Temporary appointments are not to exceed six months.
(f)
Seasonal. An employee appointed to a position to work no more than 40 hours a week, who will be laid off at the end of the season for which the employee has been appointed. This appointment shall receive no benefits and shall not exceed a nine-month period.
(g)
Grant. An employee whose salary and benefits are paid for and specified by either an approved grant or contract. Length of appointment shall be contingent on the availability of funds.
(Ord. of 3-6-2020, ch. 4(H))
Sec. 2-372. - Probationary period.
(a)
Objective. The probationary period is important and shall be utilized for closely observing the employee's work and development and for rejecting any employee whose performance does not meet the required standards. Any new hire, promoted, demoted, or transferred employee in any position shall be required to complete a probationary period. Employees serving a probationary period do not have appeal rights under the human resources system unless there is alleged discrimination because of race, age, color, creed, gender, national origin, veteran status or disability. Newly hired employees serving probationary periods are not eligible to apply for other positions within the city. Unsatisfactory performance should result in dismissal or extension of the probationary period.
(b)
Duration. The probationary period shall normally be six months. Supervisors may extend the probationary period, with approval of human resources, up to 90 days.
(c)
Evaluation of performance. After an employee has completed half (three months) of the probationary period, the supervisor shall complete a progress report/performance evaluation on the employee's work and submit the form to human resources, with the written opinion of the employee's supervisor as to whether the employee's services have been satisfactory. During the probationary period, the employee's supervisor will tell the employee when the employee is not performing satisfactorily. At least ten days prior to the expiration of the employee's probationary period, the supervisor shall notify human resources, in writing, whether or not an employee is expected to satisfactorily complete the probationary period.
(d)
Dismissal. During probation, a supervisor may remove an employee who is unable or unwilling to perform duties satisfactorily, or whose habits and dependability do not merit continuance in the city's service. The supervisor shall immediately report such removal to human resources, and the employee, and state the reason for removal. Probationary employees do not have the right of appeal.
(Ord. of 3-6-2020, ch. 4(I))
Sec. 2-373. - New hire orientation; changes in personal data.
(a)
All new hires must successfully complete human resources orientation within the first three days of employment. Arrangements for attendance will be coordinated through the supervisor and human resources.
(b)
To aid you and your family in emergency, we maintain up to date data. Give us changes in name, address, phone number, marital status, dependents, next of kin or beneficiaries.
(Ord. of 3-6-2020, ch. 4(J))
Sec. 2-374. - Employment eligibility.
In compliance with the Immigration Reform and Control Act of 1986, and any state law requirements, we employ only individuals authorized to service in the U.S. Each new employee, as a condition of employment, must complete the Employment Eligibility Verification Form I-9 and present documentation establishing identity and employment eligibility. If authorized to service in the U.S. for a limited time, submit proof of renewed employment eligibility prior to expiration.
(Ord. of 3-6-2020, ch. 4(K))
Secs. 2-375—2-393. - Reserved.
