ARTICLE IV. - FINANCE
DIVISION 1. - GENERALLY

Sec. 2-236. - Fiscal year.
The city shall operate on a fiscal year which shall begin on July 1 and end on June 30.
(Code 1982, § 4-401; Code 1994, § 2-261)
Sec. 2-237. - Emergency appropriations.
Notwithstanding any other provision of this article, the city council may make emergency appropriations after the adoption of a budget for a purpose which was not foreseen at the time of the adoption thereof, or for which adequate provision was not made therein. Such an appropriation shall be made only to meet a public emergency affecting life, health, safety, property, or the public peace, and shall be made only out of actual unappropriated revenues or surplus. If there is no surplus, then temporary borrowing in notes may be made, provided that any such borrowed amounts are included as an appropriation in the next succeeding year's budget.
(Code 1982, § 4-404; Code 1994, § 2-263)
Sec. 2-238. - Capital program.
A two-year capital program may be submitted to the city council at the same time that the budget and budget messages are introduced for approval. Such capital program shall include:
(1)
A clear general summary of its contents;
(2)
A list of all capital improvements which are proposed to be undertaken for the two fiscal years next ensuing, with appropriate supporting information as to the necessity for such improvements;
(3)
Cost estimates, method of financing, and recommended time schedules for each such improvement; and
(4)
The estimated annual cost of operating and maintaining the facilities to be constructed or acquired.
The information in this section may be revised and extended each year with regard to capital improvements still pending or in process of construction or acquisition.
(Code 1982, § 4-406; Code 1994, § 2-264)
Secs. 2-239—2-267. - Reserved.
DIVISION 2. - BUDGET[4]

Footnotes:
--- (4) ---
State Law reference— Preparation of proposed budget, O.C.G.A. § 36-81-5; adoption of budget ordinance, O.C.G.A. § 36-81-6.

Sec. 2-268. - Procedures for preparation and adoption.
The municipal budget shall be introduced, approved, amended, and adopted by ordinance passed by not less than a majority of the full membership of the full city council. The procedure shall be as follows:
(1)
Proposed use hearing. The city shall have at least one public hearing on the possible uses of funds at least seven days before the proposed budget is delivered to the city council. A notice of the proposed use hearing shall be published in at least one newspaper of general circulation no later than ten days prior to the scheduled date of the hearing. In addition, the notice shall specify that citizens attending the public hearing shall have the right to provide written and oral comments regarding possible uses of local funds.
(2)
Budget hearing. The city shall have at least one public hearing after the budget has been developed. The budget hearing shall be conducted by the city council or the appropriate committee thereof prior to the enactment of the budget. Notice of the budget hearing shall be published in a newspaper of general circulation no later than ten days prior to the scheduled date of the hearing. Such notice shall specify the date, place, and time of the public hearing, and that citizens have the right to provide written and oral comments and ask questions concerning the entire budget. The notice shall present a summary of the entire proposed budget of funds detailed into major revenue sources and departments. In addition, the notice shall advise when and where the information of this section, together with a copy of the entire proposed budget, shall be available for public inspection.
(3)
Preparation of budget. The annual budget shall present a complete financial plan for the next budget year. The following must be included in the budget:
a.
A budget message to describe the important features of the budget and to point out any major changes from the previous year.
b.
An estimate of the revenues which are expected to be received during the next year from all sources, plus a comparative statement of the actual or estimated revenues for the previous budget year. These comparisons should be shown by year, fund, and source.
c.
An estimate of the expenditures that are proposed to be spent during the budget year, plus a comparative statement of actual or estimated expenditures for the previous budget year. These comparisons should be shown by year, fund, department, and line item.
d.
The amount of money required to pay any interest, amortization, or redemption charges which the municipality will owe during the budget year.
e.
A general summary of the total proposed budget.
The expenditure estimates can never be larger than the amount anticipated in revenue plus any surplus (fund balance) from the previous year or less any deficit from the previous year.
(4)
Adoption. The municipal budget shall be adopted by resolution no later than June 30 of the preceding fiscal year. Upon adoption, the budget shall constitute an appropriation for purposes stated therein and an authorization of the amount to be raised by taxation for the city. The annual budget resolution shall be balanced. The resolutions shall be balanced when the sum of estimated revenues and appropriated fund balances equal appropriations.
(5)
Notice of enacted budget. A public notice of the availability of a summary of the enacted budget shall be published in a newspaper of general circulation within 30 days of the enactment of the budget. The notice shall state where and when the summary of the enacted budget is available for public inspection.
(Code 1982, § 4-402; Code 1994, § 2-276)
Sec. 2-269. - Procedures for amendment of budget.
The city council may amend the operating budget so as to adapt to changing governmental needs during the fiscal year. Amendments shall be made as follows:
(1)
Department of local government shall require the approval of the city council in the form of an amendment to the budget resolution.
(2)
Transfers of appropriations within a department of the city and administrative transfers of cash to accomplish normal fiscal responsibilities shall require only the approval of the budget officer; provided, however, that any transfers of appropriations within a department of local government which increases the salary appropriation shall require the approval of the city council.
(3)
Any major change in the enacted budget shall require public notice and at least one public hearing. The hearing shall be conducted and the notice shall be advertised according to the provisions of section 2-268. For the purpose of this section, a major change is defined as any change in the enacted budget which, on a cumulative basis, affects more than 25 percent of the appropriations or estimated revenues of any fund.
(Code 1982, § 4-403; Code 1994, § 2-277)
Sec. 2-270. - Lapse of appropriations.
Every appropriation, except an appropriation for a capital expenditure, shall lapse at the close of the next succeeding year to the extent that it has not been expended or encumbered. An appropriation for a capital expenditure shall continue in force until the purpose for which it was made has been accomplished or abandoned. The purpose of any such appropriation shall be deemed abandoned if two years pass without any disbursement from or encumbrance of the appropriation. Each annual budget should be able to exist for 24 months, so that any bills arriving after the close of the fiscal year can be paid out of such budget.
(Code 1982, § 4-405; Code 1994, § 2-278)
Secs. 2-271—2-299. - Reserved.
