Chapter 1 - GENERAL PROVISIONS

Sec. 1-1. - Designation and citation of Code.
The provisions embraced in the following chapters and sections shall constitute and be designated "The Code of the City of Watkinsville, Georgia, as amended" and shall be cited as such. Such Code may also be cited as the "Watkinsville Code."
(Code 1982, § 1-101; Code 1994, § 1-1)
State Law reference— Ordinance codification, O.C.G.A. § 36-80-19.
Sec. 1-2. - Definitions and rules of construction.
(a)
Rules of construction. In construing the provisions of this Code and all ordinances, the following rules shall be observed unless such construction would be inconsistent with the manifest intent of the city council:
(1)
General rule. All words and phrases shall be construed and understood according to the common and approved usage of the language, but technical words and phrases and such others as may have acquired a peculiar and appropriate meaning in the law shall be construed and understood according to such peculiar and appropriate meaning.
(2)
Gender; singular and plural. The masculine gender shall include the feminine and neuter and, unless excluded expressly or by the nature of the case, the singular or plural phrasing shall each include the other.
(3)
Tenses. The use of any verb in the present tense shall include the future when applicable.
(4)
Joint authority. All words purporting to give a joint authority to three or more city officers or other persons shall be construed as giving such authority to a majority of such officers or other persons unless it shall be otherwise expressly declared in the law giving the authority.
(5)
Delegation of authority. Whenever a provision requires the head of a department or other officer of the city to do some act or perform some duty, it shall be construed to authorize subordinates to do the required act or perform the required duty unless the terms of the provision designate otherwise.
(6)
Overlapping provisions. Where any provision of this Code imposes greater restrictions upon the subject matter than any general provisions imposed by this Code, the provision imposing the greater restriction or regulation shall be applicable.
(b)
Definitions. In construing the provisions of this Code and all ordinances, the following definitions shall be observed unless such definition would be inconsistent with the manifest intent of the city council:
Advice and consent. Whenever the term "advice and consent" of the city council is used in this Code it shall be construed to mean an affirmative vote of the majority of the entire city council.
Charter. The term "Charter" means and refer to the Charter of the City of Watkinsville as printed in Part I of this volume.
City. The term "city" means the City of Watkinsville, Georgia.
Code. The term "Code" means and refers to The Code of the City of Watkinsville, Georgia, as amended, as designated in section 1-1.
Computation of time. The time within which an act is to be done as provided in any Code provision or ordinance or in any order issued pursuant to any ordinance, when expressed in days, shall be computed by excluding the first day and including the last, except that if the last day be a Saturday, Sunday or a holiday it shall be excluded; and when any such time is expressed in hours the whole of Sunday, from 12:00 midnight to 12:00 midnight, shall be excluded. When the period of time prescribed is less than seven days, intermediate Saturdays, Sundays, and legal holidays shall be excluded in the computation.
State Law reference— Computation of time, O.C.G.A. § 1-3-1(d)(3).
Council, city council ormayor and council. The term "council," "city council" or "mayor and council" means the city council of the City of Watkinsville. Pursuant to Charter section 2.10, the city council is composed of the mayor and five councilmembers.
County. The term "county" means Oconee County, Georgia.
Court. The term "court" means the municipal court of the city.
Judge. The term "judge" means the judge of the municipal court of the city.
Mayor. The term "mayor" means the mayor of the city.
Misdemeanor. The term "misdemeanor" means a violation of the state criminal law punishable by a fine not in excess of $1,000.00 or confinement in a county or other jail for a term not exceeding 12 months, or both.
Municipal officer. The term "municipal officer" means the mayor, a councilmember or such other named officer of the city.
Municipality. The term "municipality" shall be construed as synonymous with the term "city," "town" or "municipal corporation."
O.C.G.A. The abbreviation "O.C.G.A." means the latest edition of the Official Code of Georgia Annotated, as amended.
Ordinance. The term "ordinance" means a legislative act of the city council of a general and permanent nature.
Owner. The term "owner," when applied to a building or to land, includes any part owner, joint owner, tenant in common, joint tenant or tenant by the entirety of the whole or part of such building or land.
Person. The term "person" includes a corporation, firm, partnership, association, organization, and any other group acting as a unit, as well as an individual.
Personal property. The term "personal property" includes every type of property except real property.
Property. The term "property" includes real, personal, and mixed estates and interest.
Real property. The term "real property" includes lands, tenements, and hereditaments.
Reasonable time of notice. The term "reasonable time of notice" shall be deemed to mean only such time as may be necessary for the prompt performance of the act required.
Resolution. The term "resolution" means a legislative act of the city council of a special or temporary character.
Sidewalk. The term "sidewalk" means any portion of a street between the curbline and the adjacent property line, intended for the use of pedestrians, but shall not include any unimproved areas between the curbline and improved walkways.
State. The term "state" means the State of Georgia.
Street. The term "street" means and includes any public way, road, highway, street, avenue, boulevard, parkway, alley, viaduct or bridge and the approaches thereto, within the city.
Tenant oroccupant. The term "tenant" or "occupant," when applied to a building or to land, includes any person legally authorized by an oral or written lease to possess such premises or who occupies the whole or part of such building or land, either alone or with others.
Writing or written. The terms "writing" and "written" include printing and any other mode of representing words and letters.
Year. The term "year" means a calendar year unless otherwise designated as, for example, fiscal year which means the beginning of the city's budgeting period until the termination thereof.
(Code 1982, §§ 1-102, 1-103; Code 1994, § 1-2)
Sec. 1-3. - Catchlines of sections; history notes and references.
(a)
The catchlines of the several sections of this Code printed in boldface type are intended as mere catchwords to indicate the contents of the section and shall not be deemed or taken to be titles of such sections nor as any part of the section; nor, unless expressly so provided, shall they be so deemed when any of such sections, including the catchlines, are amended or reenacted.
(b)
The history notes appearing in parentheses after each section and the references and editor's notes scattered throughout the Code are for the benefit of the user of the Code and shall have no legal effect.
(Code 1982, § 1-104; Code 1994, § 1-3)
State Law reference— Notes and catchlines of code sections not part of law, O.C.G.A. § 1-1-7.
Sec. 1-4. - Provisions considered continuations of existing ordinances.
The provisions appearing in this Code, so far as they are the same as ordinances adopted prior to this Code and included in such Code, shall be considered as continuations thereof and not as new enactments.
(Code 1994, § 1-4)
Sec. 1-5. - Effect of repeal or expiration of Code section.
(a)
The repeal of a Code section or ordinance, or its expiration by virtue of any provision contained therein, shall not affect any right accrued or any offense committed, any penalty or punishment incurred, or any proceeding commenced before the repeal took effect or the ordinance expired.
(b)
When any ordinance repealing a former Code section, ordinance, clause, or provision contained therein shall be itself repealed, such repeal shall not be construed to revive such former Code section, ordinance, clause, or provision, unless it shall be expressly so provided.
(Code 1982, § 1-105; Code 1994, § 1-5)
Sec. 1-6. - Severability of parts of Code.
It is hereby declared to be the intention of the city council that the sections, paragraphs, sentences, clauses and phrases of this Code are severable, and if any phrase, clause, sentence, paragraph or section of this Code shall be declared unconstitutional, invalid or unenforceable by the valid judgment or decree of a court of competent jurisdiction, such unconstitutionality, invalidity or unenforceability shall not affect any of the remaining phrases, clauses, sentences, paragraphs and sections of this Code.
(Code 1994, § 1-6)
State Law reference— Severability, O.C.G.A. § 1-1-3.
Sec. 1-7. - General penalty for Code violations.
(a)
Whenever in this Code or in any ordinance of the city any act is prohibited or is declared to be unlawful or an offense, or whenever in such Code or ordinance the doing of any act is declared to be unlawful, a misdemeanor, or an offense, and no specific penalty is provided therefor, the violation of such provision of this Code or any ordinance shall subject the person committing the violation to a fine not exceeding $1,000.00 and costs or to imprisonment for a term not exceeding 60 days, or to both such fine and imprisonment, any or all of such penalties to be imposed at the discretion of the judge of the municipal court.
(b)
The imposition of a penalty under the provisions of this section shall not prevent the revocation of any permit or license or the taking of other punitive or remedial action where called for or permitted under the provisions of the city's Charter or Code.
(Code 1982, § 1-108; Code 1994, § 1-7)
Sec. 1-8. - Amending Code.
(a)
All amendments to the Charter, or to any existing ordinance or to such legislation as may be adopted shall be, as soon as regularly adopted by the city council, a part of the ordinance and law of the city.
(b)
All ordinances passed subsequent to this Code which amend, repeal or in any way affect this Code shall be numbered in accordance with the numbering system of this Code and printed for inclusion in this Code. In the case of repealed chapters, sections, and subsections or any part thereof, by subsequent ordinances, such repealed portions may be excluded from the Code by omission from reprinted pages affected thereby.
(c)
Amendments to any provisions of this Code may be made by specific reference to the section number of this Code in the following language: "That section ___ of The Code of the City of Watkinsville, Georgia, as amended, is hereby amended to read as follows …." The new provisions shall then be set out in full as desired.
(d)
All chapters, sections, or provisions sought to be repealed must be specifically repealed by chapter, section or provision number as the case may be.
(Code 1982, § 1-106; Code 1994, § 1-8)
Sec. 1-9. - Supplementation of Code.
(a)
By contract or by city personnel, supplements to this Code shall be prepared on an annual basis. A supplement to the Code shall include all substantive, permanent and general parts of ordinances passed by the city council during the period covered by the supplement and all changes made thereby in the Code. The pages of a supplement shall be so numbered that they will fit properly into the Code and will, where necessary, replace pages that have become obsolete or partially obsolete, and the new pages shall be so prepared that, when they have been inserted, the Code will be current through the date of the adoption of the latest ordinance included in the supplement.
(b)
In preparing a supplement to this Code, all portions of the Code which have been repealed shall be excluded from the Code by the omission thereof from reprinted pages.
(c)
When preparing a supplement to this Code, the codifier (meaning the person authorized to prepare the supplement) may make formal, nonsubstantive changes in ordinances and parts of ordinances included in the supplement, insofar as it is necessary to do so to embody them into a unified Code. For example, the codifier may:
(1)
Organize the ordinance material into appropriate subdivisions.
(2)
Provide appropriate catchlines, headings and titles for sections and other subdivisions of the Code printed in the supplement, and make changes in such catchlines, headings and titles.
(3)
Assign appropriate numbers to sections and other subdivisions to be inserted in the Code and, where necessary to accommodate new material, change existing section or other subdivision numbers.
(4)
Change the words "this ordinance" or words of the same meaning to "this chapter," "this article," "this division," etc., as the case may be, or to "sections ___ to ___" (inserting section numbers to indicate the sections of the Code which embody the substantive sections of the ordinance incorporated into the Code).
(5)
Make other nonsubstantive changes necessary to preserve the original meanings of ordinance sections inserted into the Code; but in no case shall the codifier make any change in the meaning or effect of ordinance material included in the supplement or already embodied in the Code.
(Code 1994, § 1-9)
Sec. 1-10. - Ordinances not affected by Code.
Nothing in this Code or the ordinance adopting this Code shall be construed to repeal or otherwise affect the validity of any of the following:
(1)
Any offense or act committed or done or any penalty or forfeiture incurred or any contract or right established or accruing before the effective date of this Code.
(2)
Any ordinance or resolution promising or guaranteeing the payment of money for the city or authorizing the issuance of any bonds of the city or any evidence of the city's indebtedness.
(3)
Any contract or obligation assumed by the city.
(4)
Any ordinance fixing the salary of any city officer or employee.
(5)
Any right or franchise granted by the city.
(6)
Any ordinance dedicating, naming, establishing, locating, relocating, opening, widening, paving, etc., any street or public way in the city.
(7)
Any appropriation ordinance.
(8)
Any ordinance which, by its own terms, is effective for a stated or limited term.
(9)
Any ordinance providing for local improvements and assessing taxes therefor.
(10)
Any zoning ordinance or zoning map amendment.
(11)
Any ordinance regulating signs.
(12)
Any ordinance regulations subdivisions or dedicating or accepting any subdivision plat.
(13)
Any ordinance describing or altering the boundaries of the city.
(14)
The administrative ordinances or resolutions of the city not in conflict or inconsistent with the provisions of this Code.
(15)
Any ordinance levying or imposing taxes not included in this Code.
(16)
Any ordinance establishing or prescribing street grades in the city.
(17)
Any sewer use ordinance or pretreatment ordinance.
(18)
Any ordinance or resolution establishing speed limits.
(19)
Any ordinance promulgating or establishing human resources (personnel) rules.
No such ordinance shall be construed to revive any ordinance or part thereof that has been repealed by a subsequent ordinance which is repealed by this chapter; and all such ordinances are hereby recognized as continuing in full force and effect to the same extent as if set out at length in this Code.
(Code 1994, § 1-11)
