Chapter 14 - NATURAL GAS

Sec. 14-1. - Title.
This chapter shall be known as the "natural gas code" of the city and may be cited as such.
(Former § 14-001)
Sec. 14-2. - Purpose and scope.
This chapter is to provide minimum standards, provisions and requirements for safe installation of consumer's gas piping and gas appliances. All such gas piping and gas appliances installed, replaced, maintained, or repaired within the corporate limits of the city shall conform to the requirements of this chapter and to the specifications, rules and regulations of the building code. These specifications, rules, and regulations shall be kept in file in the office of the clerk. In any instance where the building code shall be in conflict with any of the provisions of this chapter, the more stringent regulations shall prevail.
(Former § 14-002)
Sec. 14-3. - Use of existing piping and appliances.
Notwithstanding any provision in this chapter to the contrary, consumer's piping installed prior to December 31, 1996, or piping installed to supply other than natural gas, may be converted to natural gas, if the gas inspector finds, upon inspection and proper tests, that such piping will render reasonably satisfactory gas service to the consumer and will not in any way endanger life or property, otherwise, such piping shall be altered or replaced, in whole or in part, to conform with the requirements of this section.
(Former § 14-003)
Sec. 14-4. - Bond and license.
(a)
No person shall engage in or work on the installation, extension, or alteration of gas piping or gas appliances, until such person shall have secured a license as hereinafter provided, and shall have executed and delivered to the clerk a good and sufficient bond in the sum of $1,000.00 with reasonably sufficient corporate surety, conditioned for the faithful performance of all such work, entered upon or contracted for, in strict accordance and compliance with the provisions of this chapter. The bond herein required shall expire on the first day of January next following its approval by the clerk, and thereafter on the first day of January of each year a new bond, in form and substance as herein required, shall be given by such person to cover all such work as shall be done during such year.
(b)
Upon approval of said bond, the person desiring to do such work shall secure from the clerk a non-transferable license which shall run until the first day of January next succeeding its issuance, unless sooner revoked. The person obtaining a license shall pay an annual license fee of $15.00 to the clerk; contractors, including subcontractors, shall pay an annual license fee of $25.00. The above work is to be licensed as skilled trade and is to be licensed regardless of whether by contract or time, or any other bond; however, any person may obtain a license for one-half year, provided he purchases a one-year license in advance thereof.
(c)
Nothing herein contained shall be construed as prohibiting an individual from installing or repairing his own appliances or installing, extending, replacing, altering or repairing consumer's piping on his own premises, or as requiring a license or a bond from an individual doing such work on his own premises; provided, however, that all such work must be done in conformity with all other provisions of this chapter, including those relating to permits, inspection, and fees.
(Former § 14-004)
Sec. 14-5. - Gas inspector and assistants.
To provide for the administration and enforcement of this chapter, the office of the gas inspector (inspector) is hereby created. The inspector, and such assistants as may be necessary in the proper performance of the duties of the office, shall be appointed by the council and the compensation for such office shall be determined at the time of appointment.
(Former § 14-005)
Sec. 14-6. - Powers and duties of inspector.
(a)
The inspector is authorized and directed to enforce all of the provisions of this chapter, and the inspector, upon presentation of proper credentials, may enter any building or premises at reasonable times for the purpose of making inspections or preventing violations of this chapter.
(b)
The inspector is authorized to disconnect any gas piping or fixture or appliance for which there has not been granted a certificate of approval as required by this chapter, or which is found defective or in such condition as to endanger life or property, or where there is evidence of tampering with or damage to any city equipment, including meter locks. Where such a disconnection is made, a notice shall be attached to the piping, fixture, or appliance disconnected by the inspector, which notice shall state that the same has been disconnected by the inspector, together with the reason or reasons therefor, and it shall be unlawful for any person to remove said notice or reconnect said gas piping or fixture or appliance without authorization by the inspector, and such gas piping or fixture or appliance shall not be put in service or used until the inspector has attached his certificate of approval in lieu of prior disconnection notice.
(Former § 14-006)
Sec. 14-7. - Permits.
(a)
No person shall install a gas conversion burner, floor furnace, central heating plant, vented recessed heater, water heater, boiler, consumer's gas piping, or convert existing piping to utilize natural gas without first obtaining a permit to do such work from the city clerk; however, permits will not be required for setting or connecting other gas appliances, or for the repair of leaks in house piping.
(b)
When only temporary use of gas is desired, the inspector may issue a permit for such use, for a period not to exceed 60 days, provided the consumer's gas piping to be used is given a test equal to that required for a final piping inspection.
(c)
Gas company shall not be required to obtain permits to set meters or to extend, relocate, remove, or repair its service lines, mains, or other facilities, or for work having to do with its own gas system.
(Former § 14-007)
Sec. 14-8. - Inspection.
(a)
Rough piping inspection shall be made after all new piping authorized by the permit has been installed, and before any such piping has been covered or concealed by plastering or otherwise or any fixture or gas appliances have been attached thereto.
(b)
Final piping inspection shall be made after all piping authorized by the permit has been installed and after all portions thereof which are to be concealed by plastering or otherwise have been so concealed, and before any fixtures or gas appliances have been attached hereto. This inspection shall include a pressure test, at which time the piping shall stand an air pressure equal to not less than the pressure of a column of mercury 12 inches in height, and the piping shall hold this air pressure for a period of at least 15 minutes without any perceptible drop. A mercury column gauge shall be used for the test. All tools, apparatus, labor, and assistance necessary for the tests shall be furnished by the installer of such piping.
(Former § 14-008)
Sec. 14-9. - Certificates.
The inspector shall issue a certificate of approval at the completion of the work for which a permit for consumer piping has been issued, if after inspection it is found that such work complies with the provisions of this chapter. A duplicate of each certificate issued for consumer's gas piping shall be delivered to the gas company and used as its authority to render gas service.
(Former § 14-009)
Sec. 14-10. - Fees.
(a)
The total fees for inspection of consumer's gas piping at one location (including both rough and final inspection) shall be $1.50 for one to four outlets, inclusive, and $0.50 for each outlet above five.
(b)
The fees for inspecting conversion burners and floor furnaces shall be $10.00 for each unit.
(c)
The fees for inspecting vented recessed heaters and water heaters shall be $1.00 for each unit.
(d)
If the inspector is called back, after correction of defects, an additional fee of $10.00 shall be made for each return inspection.
(e)
Any and all fees shall be paid by the person to whom the permit is issued.
(Former § 14-010)
Sec. 14-11. - Violations and penalties.
Any person that shall fail to comply with or shall violate any provision of this chapter shall be guilty of a misdemeanor, and upon conviction thereof shall be fined not less than $25.00, nor more than $200.00, or the license of such person may be revoked, or both fine and revocation of license may be imposed.
(Former § 14-011)
Sec. 14-12. - Non-liability of city.
This chapter shall not be construed as imposing upon the city any liability or responsibility for damages to any person injured by any defect in any gas piping or appliance mentioned herein, or by installation thereof, nor shall the city or any official or employee thereof, be held as assuming any liability or responsibility by reason of the inspection authorized hereunder or the certificate of approval issued by the inspector.
(Former § 14-012)
Sec. 14-13. - Definitions.
The following definitions, along with those contained in the Standard Building Code, latest edition, and the Standard Gas Code, latest edition, are provided for the purpose of interpretation and administration of this chapter.
Certain appliances means conversion burners, floor furnaces, central heating plants, vented recessed heaters, water heaters, and boilers.
Certificate of approval means a document or tag issued and/or attached by the inspector to the inspected material, piping, or appliance installation, filled out, together with date, address of the premises, and signed by the inspector.
Gas company means any person distributing natural gas in the gas system of the city or authorized and proposing to.
Inspector or gas inspector shall mean the person appointed as inspector, and shall include each assistant inspector (if any), from time to time action as such under this section by appointment of the council.
Person means any individual, partnership, firm, corporation, or any other organization.
(Former § 14-013)
Sec. 14-14. - Rates.
Per the laws of Georgia, it is necessary and expedient for the city to establish rates regarding natural gas service.
(1)
Natural gas availability. Natural gas service may be obtained where it is currently available. Natural gas service is also available on the city's distribution system if sufficient capacity exists under the following circumstances: Where city natural gas lines run contiguous to the customer's property, and it is economically feasible for the city to provide service. If there is no city gas line contiguous to the property, but it is economically feasible for the city to provide gas service to the customer, service may be provided at the city's discretion.
(2)
New service line. The base new service line rate shall be $200.00. This charge includes setting a meter and installing up to 100 feet of pipe. Additional pipe will be billed at $2.00 per foot. The $200.00 new service line charge may be decreased or increased by applicable rebates and charges.
(3)
Reserved.
(4)
Reserved.
(5)
Gas appliance rebates. Customers who install certain gas appliances for connection to the city's natural gas line shall be entitled to rebates up to, but not exceeding, the new service line fee, as follows:
a.
Water heater: $125.00
b.
Gas clothes dryer: $75.00
c.
Gas range: $50.00
d.
Gas logs: $25.00
e.
Gas lights: $25.00
f.
Gas cooling: $200.00
g.
Combination gas furnace/space heater with water heater: $175.00
(6)
Reserved.
(7)
Rebate limitations. Large industrial or commercial customers which require special metering and/or pressure regulating equipment are not entitled to the rebates. All rates for such customers will be individually determined prior to service.
(8)
Dual fuel heat pumps. There shall be a $500.00 tap fee surcharge for a customer who installs a dual fuel heat pump. A dual fuel heat pump is an electric heat pump which uses a natural gas fired furnace to provide backup heat. A customer who has installed a dual fuel heat pump shall pay a $6.00 per month capacity charge in addition to all other applicable charges.
(Former § 14-014)
