Chapter 2 - ELECTIONS
ARTICLE I. - IN GENERAL

Sec. 2-1. - Adoption of state rules and regulations.
The rules and regulations promulgated by the state election board which pertain to municipal elections, together with the provisions of the Georgia Municipal Election Code contained in O.C.G.A., tit. 21, are hereby adopted as the rules, regulations, and provisions that shall govern the conduct of municipal general and special elections in this city.
(Former § 2-001)
Sec. 2-2. - Expenses.
Such funds as are necessary for the conduct of elections and for the performance of the duties that are specified by this chapter shall be budgeted and appropriated annually, and from time to time.
(Former § 2-002)
Secs. 2-3—2-25. - Reserved.
ARTICLE II. - REGISTRATION

Sec. 2-26. - Election superintendent.
(a)
Appointment. The election superintendent and his deputies shall be appointed by the council, as necessary, and shall serve at the pleasure of same. The election superintendent shall generally supervise and direct the administration of this article. All appointments shall be entered on the minutes of the council meeting at which they are made.
(b)
Qualifications. The election superintendent and his deputies shall be electors of the city and shall be able to read, write, and speak the English language. Such appointees, while so serving, and within a period of six months after so serving, shall not be eligible for any nomination or office to be voted for at a primary or election.
(c)
Oath. Prior to performing any duties, the election superintendent and all deputies shall swear to faithfully perform their duties, such oath to be administered by an officer authorized by law to administer the oath.
(d)
Term of office. Persons appointed as election superintendent or deputy election superintendent shall serve for four years and until their successors are appointed and qualified, except in the event of resignation or removal as hereinafter provided.
(e)
Powers. The election superintendent and all deputies shall exercise those powers and duties and shall be subject to such regulations as are set forth in the Georgia Municipal Election Code, O.C.G.A. § 21-3-1 et seq.
(f)
Resignation or removal. The election superintendent and all deputies shall have the right to resign at any time by submitting a resignation to the council. The council shall have the right at any time to remove one or more of such deputies for cause after notice and hearing. If any election superintendent or deputy resigns or is removed for cause, all duties and authority as such shall terminate instantly. In the event of death, resignation, removal of the election superintendent or any deputies, the council shall appoint a successor who shall serve out the unexpired term. Each such appointment shall be entered on the minutes of the council meeting at which the appointment is made.
(Former § 2-003)
Sec. 2-27. - Elector qualifications.
Any person desiring to vote in any election must register as an elector at least 15 days prior to the primary or election at which he desires to vote; be a citizen of Georgia; be at least 18 years of age; and be a resident of the city.
(Former § 2-004)
Sec. 2-28. - Registration lists and records.
The county board of registrars shall be responsible for maintaining city voting registration cards. The form of the registration cards shall conform to the Georgia Election Code. The completed registration cards shall be kept in the main office of the county board of registrars. The other papers of the election superintendent shall be kept in the office of the election superintendent at city hall and shall be open to public inspection during usual business hours.
(Former § 2-005)
Sec. 2-29. - Challenge of registration list.
Any elector of the city shall have the right to challenge the registration of any person whose name appears on the registration list, in the manner set forth in the Georgia Election Code.
(Former § 2-006)
Sec. 2-30. - Permanency of registration.
Registration of an elector will be per the Georgia Election Code.
(Former § 2-007)
Sec. 2-31. - Absentee registration.
Absentee registration shall be per the Georgia Election Code.
(Former § 2-008)
Secs. 2-32—2-50. - Reserved.
ARTICLE III. - CANDIDATES

Sec. 2-51. - Notice of candidacy.
Each candidate desiring to have his name placed on the ballot for an office to be filled shall file per the Georgia Election Code.
(Former § 2-009)
Sec. 2-52. - Qualification fees.
The qualification fee for candidates filing a notice of candidacy in any general or special election for mayor and/or city councilman, shall be the maximum amount allowed by the Georgia Election Code, which fee shall be paid at the time of filing.
(Former § 2-010)
Sec. 2-53. - Campaign financing disclosure.
All candidates shall keep all such records and file such reports required by the Georgia Campaign and Financial Disclosure Act.
(Former § 2-011)
Secs. 2-54—2-75. - Reserved.
ARTICLE IV. - VOTING

Sec. 2-76. - Election officials.
(a)
Appointment. The following election officials shall be appointed by the council and receive compensation as provided by same:
Municipal election superintendent; chief manager; two assistant managers; clerks, as necessary.
(b)
Qualifications and powers. The municipal election superintendent and all poll officers shall meet such qualifications and exercise all such powers and duties as are provided in the Georgia Election Code.
(Former § 2-012)
Sec. 2-77. - Election districts.
The area comprising the corporate limits of the city shall be divided into election districts as determined by Home Rule.
(Former § 2-013)
Sec. 2-78. - Polling places.
The polling place within the city shall be located in the city and shall be designated by the council.
(Former § 2-014)
Sec. 2-79. - Date of election.
All municipal elections shall be held per the Georgia Election Code.
(Former § 2-015)
Sec. 2-80. - Write-in-votes.
Write-in votes shall be permitted in municipal elections, per the Georgia Election Code.
(Former § 2-016)
Sec. 2-81. - Absentee ballots.
Absentee ballots shall be used per the Georgia Election Code.
(Former § 2-017)
Sec. 2-82. - Contested elections.
Elections conducted pursuant to this may be contested as provided in the Georgia Election Code.
(Former § 2-018)
Secs. 2-83—2-100. - Reserved.
ARTICLE V. - RECALL

Sec. 2-101. - General.
The mayor or any city councilman shall be subject to recall as provided by state law.
(Former § 2-019)
Sec. 2-102. - Procedure for recall.
Recall of any elected officer from office shall be brought about in the manner provided by state law.
(Former § 2-020)
