ARTICLE I. - IN GENERAL

Sec. 16-1. - Applications.
Every person required to procure a license under the provisions of this chapter or any ordinance or law of this municipality shall submit an application for such license to the city clerk/treasurer, which application shall conform to the requirements of this chapter.
(1)
Form of application. Each application shall be a written statement upon forms provided by the city clerk/treasurer.
(2)
Contents of application. Each application shall contain the following information:
a.
Name and home address of the applicant if an individual, or home office address if a corporation or partnership;
b.
Place where the proposed business is to be located;
c.
Kind of business to be conducted;
d.
Names and home addresses of the partners, if a partnership;
e.
Names and home addresses of the officers and directors, if a corporation;
f.
Complete record of all arrests and convictions against the applicant and every partner, officer, or director of the applicant for violation of any and all laws and ordinances of the city, state, or federal government; and
g.
Such additional information which the city clerk/treasurer or city council may find reasonably necessary to the fair administration of this chapter.
(3)
Verification. Each application shall be sworn to by the applicant if an individual, or by a partner if a partnership, or by an officer if a corporation.
a.
In accordance with O.C.G.A. § 36-60-6, the city shall not issue a business license to any person engaged in a profession of business required to be licensed by the state under title 43 of the Official Code of Georgia Annotated (O.C.G.A. tit. 43). The person requesting a business license from the city must provide the city with evidence of licensure by the state. No business license may be issued by the city without such proof.
b.
Professions and businesses required to be licensed by the state are as follows:
Accountants
Architects
Athletic trainer
Athlete agents
Auctioneers
Barbers
Charitable solicitors
Chiropractors
Contractors, air conditioned
Contractors, low voltage
Contractors, utility
Cosmetologists
Counselors, professional
Dentists
Dental hygienists
Dietitians
Dietetic counselors
Driver training instructors
Driver training schools operators
Electrical contractors
Embalmers
Engineers, professional
Firearms dealers
Funeral directors
Geologists
Hotel, inns and roadhouse operators
Junk dealers
Landscape architects
Land surveyors
Librarians
Manicurist
Merchant, transient
Motor vehicle racetrack operators
Nurses
Nursing home administrators
Occupational therapists
Opticians, dispensing
Optometrists
Pest control, persons engaged in structural
Physical therapists
Physicians
Physician assistants
Plumbers
Podiatrists
Polygraph examiners
Private detective and private security business operators
Psychologists
Real estate appraisers
Real estate brokers and salespersons
Recreation administrators, leaders,
Specialists and technicians
Respiratory care
Sanitarians, registered professional
Scrap metal processors
Social workers
Speech language pathologists and audiologists
Therapists, marriage and family
Used car dealers
Used motor vehicle parts dealers, dismantlers and rebuilders and salvage dealers
Veterinarians and veterinary technicians
Water and wastewater treatment plant, operators and laboratory analysts
(4)
Payment of fee. Each application shall be accompanied by the amount of the fee chargeable for such license, such amount to be prorated by quarters to the end of the fiscal year.
a.
Issuance of receipts. The city clerk/treasurer shall issue a receipt to the applicant for the amount of the fee tendered with the application for a license, provided that such receipt shall not be construed as approval of the application, nor shall it entitle or authorize the applicant to open or maintain any business contrary to the provisions of this chapter.
b.
Rebate of fee. Upon the disapproval of any application for which a fee has been submitted under the provisions of this chapter, the city clerk/treasurer shall refund such fee, provided that the applicant is not otherwise indebted to the city.
(5)
Confidentiality of information. All information furnished or secured under the authority of this chapter shall be kept in strict confidence by the city clerk/treasurer, shall not be subject to public inspection, and shall be utilized solely by the officers of the city responsible for administering the provisions of this chapter.
(6)
False statements. False statements on any application for a license shall be grounds for immediate revocation of such license.
(Code 1998, § 32-101)
Sec. 16-2. - Procedures for issuance.
(a)
Issuance of license. Upon completion of the application, the city clerk/treasurer shall issue a business license to the applicant therefor, which license shall state the nature of the business authorized and bear the date of issuance and the signature of the city clerk/treasurer. The request for a beer/wine license is covered in chapter 4, alcoholic beverages.
(b)
Limitation on issuance. No license shall be issued to any applicant whose place of business is not in full compliance with the provisions of this chapter.
(c)
Council discretion. The mayor shall sign approval of the business license at his discretion and if he deems it necessary, will forward the request to the city council for their approval. If the license is disapproved, the city clerk/treasurer will follow procedures to revoke the issued license. The granting of a business license under the provisions of this chapter shall be deemed a privilege only, and nothing herein contained shall be construed as granting any person whose business is subject to municipal regulation any legal right to engage in such business.
(Code 1998, § 32-102)
Sec. 16-3. - Display of license.
It shall be the duty of any person conducting a licensed business in the city to keep his license posted in a conspicuous place on the premises used for such business at all times.
(Code 1998, § 32-103)
Sec. 16-4. - Inspections.
(a)
Search of premises. Whenever inspections are a reasonable precedent to the licensing of a business or to the detection of violations of public peace, order, or morality that would normally be cause to revoke a license for any period of time, it shall be the duty of the licensee, or the person in charge of the premises to be inspected, to admit thereto, for the purpose of making the inspection, any officer or employee of the city who is authorized or directed to make such inspection at any reasonable time that admission is requested.
(b)
Testing of material. Whenever an analysis of any commodity or material is a reasonable precedent to the licensing of a business or to the detection of violations of the public welfare that would normally be cause to revoke a license for any period of time, it shall be the duty of the licensee of the municipality whose business is governed by such provision to give to any authorized officer or employee of the city requesting the same, sufficient samples of such material or commodity for such analysis.
(c)
Refusal to allow inspection. In addition to any other penalty which may be provided, the mayor may revoke the license of any licensed proprietor of a licensed business in the city who refuses to permit any officer or employee who is authorized to make such inspection or take such sample to make the inspection, or take an adequate sample of the said commodity, or who interferes with such officer or employee while in the performance of his duty in making such inspection; provided, that no license shall be revoked for such cause unless written demand is made upon the licensee or person in charge of the premises, in the name of the city, stating that such inspection or sample is desired at the time it is sought to make the inspection or obtain the sample.
(Code 1998, § 32-104)
Sec. 16-5. - Termination and renewal of licenses.
(a)
All annual licenses shall terminate on December 31 when no provision to the contrary is made.
(b)
Each licensee shall renew the license by paying the license fee to the city clerk/treasurer by January 1 of each calendar year. The license will be considered past due February 1 of each year. If ownership of the business or any other pertinent information is needed, the business shall give the information to the city clerk/treasurer at this time.
(Code 1998, § 32-105)
Sec. 16-6. - Revocation, suspension, etc.
After affording the licensee notice of the charges and opportunity to be heard with respect to any revocation proceedings, the city council may, if it finds this chapter to have been violated by the licensee, his agent, or employee, revoke such license in its entirety, suspend the same for a specified period of time, place the licensee on probation, or place other conditions thereon as the city council may deem necessary.
(Code 1998, § 32-106)
Sec. 16-7. - Change of location.
In the absence of any provision to the contrary, the location of any licensed business or occupation may be changed, provided ten days notice thereof is given to the city clerk/treasurer, and provided that all building and zoning requirements are complied with.
(Code 1998, § 32-107)
Sec. 16-8. - Transfer of licenses.
All licenses shall be personal to the licensee to whom issued; but, in cases where the ownership is changed and both the name and location of the licensed business or occupation are maintained, the mayor and city council may allow the license to be transferred.
(Code 1998, § 32-108)
Sec. 16-9. - Duplicate licenses.
A duplicate license shall be issued by the city clerk/treasurer to replace a previously issued license which has been lost, stolen, defaced, or destroyed without any willful conduct on the part of the licensee, upon the filing of a sworn affidavit attesting to such fact and the payment of a fee to the city clerk/treasurer. The amount of the fee shall be as established by the city council, from time to time.
(Code 1998, § 32-109)
Sec. 16-10. - Branch offices.
For the purpose of this chapter, each branch establishment or location wherein a representative of the owner is employed and is authorized to transact business for such owner shall be deemed a separate place of business, for which a separate license shall be required; provided that warehouses and distributing plants used in connection with and incidental to a business licensed under the provisions of this chapter shall not be deemed to be separate places of business or branch offices.
(Code 1998, § 32-110)
Sec. 16-11. - Joint license.
A person engaged in two or more businesses at the same location shall be required to obtain separate licenses for conducting each of such businesses for which a license is required.
(Code 1998, § 32-111)
Sec. 16-12. - Penalties.
Any person who shall conduct a business or occupation without having obtained a license therefor as required by this chapter, or who shall violate any other provisions of this chapter, shall, upon conviction therefor, be punished according to the general penalties described in section 1-8.
(Code 1998, § 32-112)
Secs. 16-13—16-42. - Reserved.
