CHAPTER 6. - MUNICIPAL EMPLOYEES

Sec. 1-6001. - At-will status and grievance procedure.
(a)
All persons employed by the city shall be on an at-will basis; provided, however, city employees will be afforded the opportunity to participate in a grievance procedure as set forth in the city personnel manual; provided further that police officers who have not yet attained the rank of major or higher and fire fighters who have not yet attained the rank of deputy chief or higher will be subject to a merit system as set forth in the city personnel manual.
(b)
The human resources director shall create a personnel manual that may be presented to the city council for review.
(Ord. No. 2017-015, § 4(1-6001), 8-22-2017)
Sec. 1-6002. - Pay scale.
The city council shall approve a pay scale for use by the human resources director, and such approval may come in the form of a resolution that was adopted prior to the effective date of the ordinance from which this chapter is derived.
(Ord. No. 2017-015, § 4(1-6002), 8-22-2017)
Sec. 1-6003. - Personnel manual.
The human resources department shall prepare and submit to the city manager a personnel manual. The city manager shall present the proposed personnel manual to the city council for review and adoption. In order for the personnel manual to be effective, it must be ratified by resolution of the city council. Any material changes to the personnel manual must also be ratified by the city council in the form of a resolution.
(Amend. of 8-22-2017(01))
Sec. 1-6004. - Workforce plan.
At the time that the city manager presents the proposed annual budget, he or she shall also present to the city council the number of positions he or she is recommending for employment for the fiscal year. The city manager must describe the duties of each city employee in a separate communication to the city council, and the city council may approve, by ordinance, ratification of the personnel manual, or by other means the job descriptions provided by the city manager.
(Amend. of 8-22-2017(01))
Sec. 1-6005. - Hiring.
(a)
When considering hiring a department head, the city manager and/or city treasurer shall confirm that the proposed salary is consistent with the city pay scale and demonstrate to the city council how the potential hire will impact the annual budget.
(b)
Prior to extending any offer of employment to any person, the city manager and/or city treasurer shall confirm that the salary proposed is consistent with the pay scale adopted by the city council.
(Amend. of 8-22-2017(01); Ord. No. 2019-008, § 1, 4-23-2019)
Sec. 1-6006. - Limitation on employment of certain employees.
When an election or appointment results in a new elected or new appointed official, any municipal employee who works in the office of mayor, serves as an aide to a city councilmember, or as an assistant to an appointed official, may be reassigned at the request of the newly-elected or newly-appointed official. Nothing in this section shall be deemed to change the at-will status of any employee, including those identified in this chapter.
(Amend. of 8-22-2017(02))
Sec. 1-6007. - Appointment and removal of department heads and directors.
The following process shall govern the employment of department heads and directors:
(1)
Duties. Each city department shall be managed by a department head or director who shall be responsible for overseeing the day-to-day operations of their department and perform such duties and functions as provided by the city council and charter.
(2)
Appointments. The appointment of department heads and directors shall be governed as follows:
a.
The city treasurer, who shall also serve as the chief finance officer, shall report to the city council under both roles, and be responsible for the daily supervision, hiring and removal of all department heads and directors under the city finance department.
b.
All other department heads and directors shall be hired and removed by the city manager, and shall serve under the daily supervision of the city manager or his/her designee
(3)
Qualifications. Except as otherwise provided by the city charter, department heads and directors shall be appointed solely on the basis of their respective administrative and professional qualifications.
(4)
Compensation. Department heads and directors shall receive such compensation as prescribed by the city council.
(Ord. No. 2018-008, § 1, 2-27-2018; Ord. No. 2019-008, § 2, 4-23-2019)
Sec. 1-6008. - Criminal conviction question for city employees.
(a)
Purpose; applicability.
(1)
The purpose of this section is to ensure that an individual who is qualified for a city position, but has a criminal conviction, is afforded the opportunity to apply, and be considered, for the city position.
(2)
This section is applicable to any individual who applies for employment with the City of South Fulton after the effective date of this section.
(b)
Prohibition on inquiry of consideration of criminal convictions for prospective city employees until interview or consideration. Except as provided for below in section (d) of this code section, the city shall not inquire into or consider the criminal conviction of an applicant for employment with the city until the applicant is being interviewed or is otherwise qualified for employment by the city.
(c)
Revision of employment applications and notice required. The city shall revise all city employment application forms to meet the intent of this section and to include the following notification on each application:
"The City of South Fulton is an equal opportunity employer. No applicant shall be discriminated against on the basis of race, color, creed, national origin, marital status, public benefit status, gender, sexual orientation, or other criteria prohibited by City, state, or federal law. In accordance with the City Code, criminal convictions are not a bar to City employment, provided, that the prior criminal activity is not directly related to the position being sought."
(d)
Exceptions to prohibition on inquiry of consideration of criminal convictions for city employment. This section does not limit the right of the city:
(1)
To hire and/or fire at will;
(2)
To conduct criminal conviction background checks on applicants for positions where there is a statutory duty to do so, including inquiring on city employment applications whether there is a criminal conviction for those positions only;
(2)
To otherwise take into consideration during the hiring process a potential employee's criminal conviction; or
(3)
To notify applicants that laws and city policies will disqualify an individual with a particular criminal conviction from obtaining employment for particular positions based on the requirements of those positions.
(Ord. No. 2019-004, § 1, 1-22-2019)
Sec. 1-6009. - Departments, generally.
The following offices and units of governments are established within the city:
(1)
Communications and external affairs. Responsible for the development of internal and external communications, coordinates media relations, news releases, the city's website, social media, and newsletter.
(2)
Community development and regulatory affairs. Responsible for duties as the office of film and entertainment and all city planning and zoning activities and federal, state and local regulatory compliance related to this function. The head of this department shall be the director of community development & regulatory affairs, who will serve in an advisory capacity to the boards and council in all planning and zoning matters, to make recommendations to amend planning and regulatory ordinances, and to administer the enforcement of ordinances relating thereto. Additionally, the director or his/her designees will also staff the following boards and commissions:
Code enforcement board,
Historic and cultural landmarks commission,
Planning commission, and
Zoning board of appeals.
a.
Code enforcement. Responsible for the inspection and enforcement of residential and commercial properties that are in violation of the code pertaining to construction, land use regulations and maintenance of structures and premises.
b.
Planning and zoning. Serves as the primary point of contact with applicants throughout the land development process. Responsibilities include management of processes for the review and approval of land development permits, land disturbance permits, final plats, stream buffer variances, and other related activities to include property zoning information, rezoning, zoning variances, and subdivision platting; and ensuring development projects are designed to meet city design standards and state regulations.
c.
Permit and land development office. Responsible for the processing and issuance of all building permits, conducting field inspections for safety and occupancy and coordinating the review of all construction documents to ensure that structures are designed per the current applicable codes.
(3)
Destination South Fulton (DSF) is the City of South Fulton's economic development entity. DSF can provide demographic information on the city; assist with site selection to construct or locate businesses; and offer information on funding and incentives which may help attract and sustain existing business.
(4)
Finance. Responsible for providing general oversight and support for financial management, administrative, and technology operations for the city.
a.
Core financial and administrative functions include:
1.
Accounts payable.
2.
Accounts receivable.
3.
Business license processing.
4.
Contract and purchasing oversight.
5.
Payroll.
6.
General ledger administration.
7.
Financial auditing support and compliance with financial reporting requirements.
8.
Cash and debt service management.
9.
Budget development and oversight.
10.
Office equipment support.
11.
Financial records management.
12.
Grants administration.
13.
Business license. Responsible for the collection of occupational taxes and issuance of occupational tax certificates (business licenses) within the City of South Fulton. In addition, the office collects various excise taxes including hotel/motel, alcohol, rental, and energy excise taxes.
b.
The chief financial officer shall be authorized to sign all appeal bonds and related bond documentation on behalf of the city council or city, which may be essential to the administration of any case in court.
c.
The following offices are a part of the Finance Department:
1.
Accounting.
2.
Purchasing.
3.
Risk management.
4.
Budget management.
5.
Grant administration.
6.
Tax administration.
7.
Grant writing.
(5)
Fire. The Fire Department, led by the fire chief, shall be authorized to ensure that that all rules, regulations and laws of the state and city relative to fire prevention and extinguishment are duly observed.
(6)
Human resources. Headed by the human resources director and responsible for the managing the full range of workforce services, including recruitment and retention, benefits administration, employee relations, personnel records management, training and separation of city personnel.
(7)
Information technology. Headed by the IT director and responsible for the information technology strategy and computer systems while managing all technical services and relationships.
(8)
Municipal court. Headed by the court administrator and responsible for the administration and operation of the city's municipal court system.
(9)
Parks, recreation and cultural affairs. All park and recreation activities shall be the responsibility of the parks and recreation department, which shall be headed by the director of parks and recreation.
(10)
Police. The chief of police and all members of the police department shall have the power and authority of police officers generally and shall perform such duties as are required of them by the council or by law. The chief of police shall have general superintendence of the police department and custody of all property used and maintained for the purposes of said department.
(11)
Public works. Headed by the public works director and responsible for the administration, planning, engineering, construction, and maintenance of the city's infrastructure.
a.
General services. Headed by the facilities manager and oversees new construction as well as the modification, renovation, and major maintenance of city facilities.
b.
Fleet services. Headed by the fleet manager and oversees the maintenance of city vehicles.
(Ord. No. 2020-006, § 4, 3-17-2020)
Editor's note— Ord. No. 2020-006, § 4, adopted March 17, 2020, set out provisions intended for use as § 1-6008. Inasmuch as the were already provisions so designated, at the editor's discretion, these provisions have been included as § 1-6009.
Sec. 1-6010. - City of South Fulton healthy workplace ordinance.
1-6010.1 General. The City of South Fulton is committed to providing a safe and respectful working environment that is free from workplace bullying/abusive conduct, and harassment. The city prohibits and will not tolerate any form of workplace bullying and/or harassment by and against city employees, supervisors, managers, applicants for employment, and others in the workplace environment.
All employees are responsible for maintaining and contributing to an environment that is free from bullying and/or harassment. All employees (including supervisors and managers) are expected to conduct themselves in a manner that demonstrates professional conduct and mutual respect for others. Supervisors and managers must make every reasonable effort to establish and maintain a workplace free of bullying/abusive conduct and harassment.
1-6010.2 Prohibited conduct. The workplace environment of the city shall be devoid of the following conduct:
(1)
Abusive conduct/bullying. Abusive conduct means acts or omissions that would cause a reasonable person, based on the severity, nature, and frequency of the conduct, to believe that an employee was subject to an abusive work environment/conduct made with malice, meaning with the intention of harming someone, that a reasonable person would find hostile, offensive, humiliating, intimidating, and unrelated to an employer's legitimate business interests. Abusive conduct may include, but is not limited to:
• Repeated verbal or written abuse, including derogatory remarks, insults, and epithets.
• Verbal, nonverbal, or physical conduct of a threatening, intimidating, or humiliating nature.
• The sabotage or undermining of an employee's work performance.
This list is illustrative only and not exhaustive. A single act generally will not constitute abusive conduct unless the conduct is determined to be severe and egregious.
(2)
Harassment. Harassment means malicious, unwanted, repetitive and abusive conduct; arbitrary, unreasonable and/or capricious; verbal, written and/or physical; repeatedly by an employer, its agents, supervisors or employees, outside the legitimate interests of the company and unwanted by the person, and that creates an intimidating, humiliating, hostile or offensive work environment, not suitable for the reasonable person to perform their duties or tasks in a normal manner. Conduct constituting workplace harassment includes, but is not limited to, acts such as those detailed below:
a.
Verbal outbursts of repeated episodes of impulsive, aggressive, violent behavior, or angry verbal outbursts which are grossly out of proportion and inappropriate to the situation.
b.
Injurious, defamatory or harmful expressions about the person, with or without the use of profanity.
c.
Hostile and humiliating remarks of professional disqualification.
d.
The unjustified threats of dismissal.
e.
The multiple disciplinary complaints of any of the active subjects of the harassment, whose recklessness is demonstrated by the result of the respective disciplinary processes.
f.
The humiliating disqualification of proposals or opinions of work.
g.
The comments or ridicules directed at the employee about the physical appearance or the way of dressing.
h.
The public allusion to facts pertaining to the personal and family privacy of the affected employee.
i.
The imposition of duties patently outside the scope of employment obligations, the openly disproportionate demands on the fulfillment of the work entrusted and the abrupt change of the workplace or of the contracted work without any objective basis regarding the business or service to which the employer is engaged.
j.
The refusal of the employer or other employees to provide information pertinent to the performance of tasks.
Prohibited conduct for the purposes of this section shall not be confused with conduct of management employees exercising management rights including, but not limited to, assigning tasks, reprimanding, assigning discipline, or directing. Conduct that constitutes a protected exercise of an individual's rights under the First Amendment to the United States Constitution shall not be deemed a violation of this section.
This section applies to use of city's email and other electronic communication systems or devices. Any employee who violates this section shall be subject to disciplinary action, up to and including termination of employment.
1-6010.3 Complaint procedure. The city expects all employees to report immediately all concerns of bullying/abusive conduct or harassment so that prompt and appropriate action can be taken in according with the city grievance policy and procedures and this section.
If you are subjected to any conduct that you believe violates this section or witness any such conduct, you must promptly speak to, write, or otherwise contact your direct supervisor or, if the conduct involves your direct supervisor, the next level above your direct supervisor, ideally within ten days of the offending conduct. If you have not received a satisfactory response within five days after reporting any incident of what you perceive to be prohibited conduct, please immediately contact the human resources department to ensure that a prompt investigation is completed. Prohibited conduct may be challenged even if the complaining party is not the intended target of the conduct.
The complaint should be as detailed as possible, including the elate, time, and location of the incident and the names of all individuals involved and any witnesses. Employees are expected to cooperate in any related investigation. The city will thoroughly investigate all complaints of prohibited conduct as soon as practicable and will take prompt corrective action in accordance with the city's grievance policy and procedures, including discipline, if appropriate. If after a thorough investigation, the employee is not satisfied with the result of the investigation, the employee may appeal the determination to an ad hoc grievance board.
1-6010.4 Ad hoc grievance/appeal board. An employee shall have the right to appeal an unsatisfactory determination of a complaint of bullying, abusive behavior or harassment to the grievance board. The board shall ensure that employees have a fair and impartial appeal and review of the determination of their complaint. The grievance board shall be ad hoc and be composed as follows:
(1)
A part-time municipal court judge as nonvoting chairperson of the board. The mayor shall select one of the judges from the current personnel roster.
(2)
Three randomly selected individuals from a pool of seven individuals appointed by each council member who are not current or retired city employees and who are a City of South Fulton citizen.
All members of this board shall be persons who have no personal relationships with any part to the grievance, that is, not related by blood or marriage, business partners, close personal friends or other relationship or circumstances that would tend to bias the judgment of the board members for or against any party to the grievance or appeal. There shall be no private, one on one conversations between individual board members and any party to the grievance concerning the merits of the grievance or appeal at any time during the course of the proceedings.
The grievance/appeal board shall hold a hearing on the grieved or appealed issue at which all appropriate witnesses and supporting information shall be heard as determined by the board. The chairperson shall follow the procedural rules of Robert's Rules of Order, newly revised or as amended, for the ad hoc grievance/appeal board hearing. The hearing shall be recorded. This recording shall be the only official record of the hearing. The evidentiary portion of the hearing before the board shall be open to the press and public, however, the deliberation of the findings of the board shall occur in closed session. After the board has heard from all involved parties, the chairperson will close the meeting. Only the voting members of the board shall be party to the deliberation of the findings of the board. After consideration of written materials and testimony given at the hearing, the board will issue through the chairperson a decision to the city manager or human resources director. The grievant/appellant and the appellee will receive copies of the board's decision which shall be final.
Members of the board shall be paid a per diem for each hearing they are required to conduct. If a hearing lasts multiple days, then the board members shall receive a separate per diem for each day of hearing. The per diem shall be the same for each member and shall be approved by the city council.
1-6010.5 No retaliation. The city prohibits any form of discipline, reprisal, intimidation, or retaliation for reporting incidents of workplace bullying/abusive conduct or harassment of any kind, pursuing a complaint of workplace bullying/abusive conduct or harassment, or participating and cooperating in related investigations. At-will employment status may not be used to terminate any employee in retaliation for filing a grievance.
(Ord. No. 2022-009, § 1, 3-22-2022)
Sec. 1-6011. - Temporary employment services.
1-6011.1 Purpose; applicability. The purpose of this section is to ensure that uniformed guidelines are followed in the hiring of temporary employees and contractors. This is section is applicable to temporary staff and contractors to fill vacant non-elective staff positions.
1-6011.2 Definitions.
Temporary staff is an individual who provides a service to the city through a staffing firm that administers the individual' s pay, benefits, employment taxes, and IRS reporting.
Independent contractor is an individual who meets the United States Department of Labor and Internal Revenue Service (IRS) Independent Contractor Tests.
Critical hire shall be considered a position that the city must fill in order to maintain citizen/life safety, and to successfully meet required financial and/or operational compliance standards that puts the city's financial standing and credit rating at risk. A critical hire is not the same as an important hire. The city has many positions that are important to operational success but would not be considered critical. Important positions shall not be approved for critical hire.
1-6011.3 Use of temporary staff. The use of temporary agencies and contract employees to fill vacant non-elective staff positions shall be limited to only those positions that have been identified as being a critical hire by a resolution of the city council. Temporary and/or contract employees hired through the critical hire process shall be term limited to a maximum of 120 days.
1-6011.4 Procedures for hiring. All critical hires must be procured through a contract resulting from a formal procurement. The human resource (HR) department is responsible for identifying and reviewing staffing vendor relationship by utilizing the city's procurement process. All contractual agreements must be procured and negotiated in advance of placement of temporary staff or contractors. Payment of services rendered by temporary and contract staff may only be paid directly to a third-party agency whose primary purpose is to provide temporary and contract workers.
The HR department is responsible for the overall management of the selection and hiring processes related to critical hires including, but not limited to, ensuring that the appropriate pre-employment screenings are conducted by the staffing firm in accordance with city employment practices.
Departments requesting to fill non-elective staff positions through the critical hire process shall complete a critical hire request form providing a compelling case for the critical nature of the position, along with the appropriate supporting documentation and data regarding the risk to citizen/life safety and/or the city's ability to meet compliance standards in order to protect its financial standing and/or credit rating.
Departments shall submit to the city manager for approval all requests to complete a critical hire for non-elective staff positions that meet the critical hire criteria for approval. Upon approval by the city manager, s/he shall subsequently submit to the city council for city council approval the need for a critical hire.
1-6011.5 Approval of critical hires by city council. The city council shall review the documentation submitted by the city manager, and upon determination of need, the city council shall by majority vote approve a resolution authorizing the use of a temporary agency and/or contract to fill the critical hire vacancy. In the event that the city council determines that the need for a critical hire does not exist, and that the position can be filled using the regular employee recruitment process, the position shall remain unfilled until such time as a suitable candidate is identified and hired through the regular city employee recruitment process.
1-6011.6 Discipline and termination of critical hires. Disciplinary actions will be handled by the HR department and the temporary agency representative. The release of all critical hires must be coordinated through the HR department directly with the agency.
(Ord. No. 2022-033, § 1, 9-27-2022)
