ARTICLE III. - DEFINITION OF CERTAIN TERMS USED

Sec. 301. - Definitions.
When used in these regulations, the following words and phrases shall have the meaning given in this section. Terms not herein defined shall have their customary dictionary definitions where not inconsistent with the context; words used in the singular number include the singular. Words used in the present tense include the future. The word "person" includes a "firm," "association," "organization," "partnership," "trust," "company," or "corporation" as well as an "individual." The word "building" includes the word "structure."
a.
County - The Chairman and County Commission of Harris County, Georgia.
b.
Comprehensive plan - Any part or element of the overall plan for development adopted by the planning commission as provided by the General Planning Enabling Act of 1957, No. 358, as amended.
Editor's note— The planning and zoning enabling act of 1957 has been repealed.
c.
Drainage plan - Shall mean any plan or element thereof which has been approved by the county commission and adopted by the planning commission.
d.
Easement - A grant by the property owner for use of a strip of land by the public, a corporation, or person(s) for specified reasons. See article XII, section 1209.
e.
Easement road - A private thoroughfare which affords the principal means of access to abutting property.
f.
Final plat - Shall mean a plat of a tract of land which meets the requirements of these regulations and the Georgia Standard Plat Act and is in form for recording in the office of the clerk of superior court.
Editor's note— Recordation of maps and plats, O.C.G.A. § 15-6-67 et seq.
g.
Lot - A portion or parcel of land separated from other portions or parcels by description as on a subdivision plat or record by survey map or as described by metes and bounds, and intended for transfer of ownership or for building development. For the purpose of this resolution, the term does not include any portion of a dedicated right-of-way.
h.
Major street plan - Shall mean the major street plan as adopted by the planning commission as an element of the county's comprehensive plan.
i.
Planning commission - Is the Harris County Planning Commission.
j.
Preliminary plat - Shall mean a tentative plan of a proposed subdivision submitted to the planning commission for its consideration.
k.
Sanitation - Is the Harris County Sanitarian. (Harris County Health Officer.)
l.
Street - Is a way for vehicular traffic, whether designated as an avenue, road, boulevard, highway, expressway, land, alley, or other way, and for the purposes of this resolution "streets" are divided into the following categories:
1.
Major or arterial streets - Those streets designated as such on the Major Thoroughfares Plan of Harris County, which serve primarily as major traffic ways for travel through and within the county.
2.
Secondary or collector street - A street used to carry traffic from the "minor streets" to the "major streets" and includes, but is not limited to, the principal entrance and circulation streets of a subdivision.
3.
Minor or local street - A street used primarily for access to the abutting properties.
4.
Alley - A minor way used for the service access to the back or side of properties otherwise abutting on a street.
5.
Cul-de-sac - A "minor street" having one end open to traffic and the other end permanently terminated with a paved turnaround.
6.
Dead end - A stub street in a subdivision which will at a later time be continued into another portion of the subdivision.
m.
Subdivider - Is the person, firm, corporation, syndicate or other entity having such a proprietary interest in the land to be subdivided as will authorize the maintenance of proceedings to subdivide such land under this resolution or the authorized agent of such person, firm or corporation for the purpose of undertaking activities covered by these regulations.
n.
Subdivision, major - Means all divisions of a tract or parcel of land into four (4) or more lots, building sites, or other divisions for the purpose, immediate or future, of sale, legacy or building development; and includes all division of land into two (2) or more lots involving a new street or a change in existing streets; or divisions of land involving the extension of water, sewer, or gas lines and includes resubdivision and, where appropriate to the context, relates to the process of subdividing or to the land or area subdivided.
1.
The following are not included with this definition:
(a)
The combination or recombination of portions of previously platted lots where the total number of lots is not increased and the resultant lots are equal to the standards of the county.
(b)
The division of land whereby all parcels are twenty-five (25) acres or greater in size.
2.
The following are included with this definition:
(a)
If it is determined by the building inspection department at the time minor subdivision approval is being pursued by a subdivider, that the subject proposed minor subdivision is contemplated to be further subdivided by the subdivider or his/her transferees within a two-year period of time from the date the first subdivision approval is obtained, and whereby, through said subdivisions of land, there is created four (4) or more lots, building sites or other divisions, then the major subdivision requirements must be met at the very first instance by the original subdivider.
(b)
If it is determined by the building inspection department at the time minor subdivision approval is being pursued by a subdivider, that the subject property of the proposed minor subdivision was derived as the result of a previous subdivision of land, which was approved under the minor subdivision requirements, and said previous subdivision of land occurred within two (2) years from the current pursuit of minor subdivision approval and the result of approval of the current minor subdivision in conjunction with the previous subdivision would yield four (4) or more lots, building sites or other divisions of land, then the current subdivision of land shall be subject to the major subdivision requirements.
3.
The division of land into parcels of five (5) acres or more where no new street is involved or no new utiliy improvements are required may be submitted for approval on a final plat if the subdivider chooses to forego preliminary plat review.
o.
Subdivision, minor - Means all divisions of a tract of land into less than four (4) lots, building sites, or other division for the purpose, whether immediate or future, of sale, legacy, or building development, and, where appropriate to the context, relates to the process of subdividing or to the land or area subdivided. The following are not included within this definition:
1.
All divisions of land involving a new street; a change in an existing street; or the extension of water, sewer, or gas lines (this is a major subdivision).
2.
The combination or recombination of portions of previously platted lots where the total number of lots is not increased and the resultant lots are equal to the standards of the county.
(Ord. No. 4-92, 12-15-92; Ord. No. 1-93B, 6-1-93; Ord. No. 1-93D, 10-5-93; Ord. No. 3-96, 7-2-96)
