APPENDIX A - ZONING[1]
Footnotes:
--- (1) ---
Editor's note— The county's zoning ordinance was originally adopted by §§ 1—4 of Ord. No. 2-88, adopted Feb. 2, 1988, effective Feb. 3, 1988. A new ordinance was adopted and effective Jan. 2, 1990. Amendatory ordinances have been included in their proper places, and a history note following the affected section has been included. Absence of such a note indicates the section was derived unamended from the original 1990 ordinance. Nonsubstantive stylistic changes have been made to bring the ordinance into conformity with the Code of Ordinances. Editorial emendations made for the sake of clarity are included in brackets [ ]. Obvious misspellings have been corrected without comment.
Cross reference— Administration, ch. 2; parks and recreation; ch. 3.5; planning and development, ch. 4; taxation, licenses and business regulations, ch. 6; subdivisions, app. B; cable television franchises, app. C; payment of expenses for members of county boards, § 2-2.
State Law reference— Location of adult bookstores and movie houses, O.C.G.A. § 36-60-3; zoning procedures, O.C.G.A. § 36-66-1 et seq.; condominiums, O.C.G.A. § 44-3-114; time-share interval form of ownership, O.C.G.A. § 44-3-164; covenants running with the land, O.C.G.A. § 44-5-60; historic preservation, O.C.G.A. § 44-10-1 et seq.
State Constitution reference— Planning and zoning, Ga. Const. art. IX, § II, ¶ IV.

ARTICLE I. - SHORT TITLE, PURPOSE AND APPLICATION

Sec. 1. - Short title.
These regulations shall be known and may be cited as "The Zoning Ordinance of Harris County, Georgia".
Sec. 2. - Purpose.
The regulations set forth herein are enacted to implement the comprehensive plan for land uses in order to encourage the most appropriate use of land, to maintain and stabilize the value of property, to prevent the overcrowding of land and undue concentrations of population and to create a comprehensive and stable pattern of land uses which will facilitate the planning and provision of transportation, water, sewage, schools, parks and other facilities; and to promote the health, safety and welfare of present and future inhabitants.
Sec. 3. - Application.
Except as hereinafter provided, no building shall be erected, or structurally altered, nor shall any building or premises be used for any purpose other than permitted in the zoning district in which the building or premises is located. No land or lot area shall be reduced or diminished so that the yards or open spaces shall be smaller than prescribed herein, nor shall the lot area per family be reduced in any manner except in conformity with the regulations hereby established for the district in which such building is located. No yard or open space provided about any building for the purpose of complying with these regulations shall be considered as providing a yard or other open space for any other building. This ordinance is an exclusionary zoning ordinance.
ARTICLE II. - DEFINITIONS
For the purpose of this ordinance, certain terms or words used herein shall be interpreted as follows:
The word "person" includes a firm, association, organization, partnership, trust, company, proprietorship or corporation as well as an individual.
The present tense includes the future tense, the singular number includes the plural, and the plural number includes the singular.
The word "shall" is mandatory, the word "may" is permissive.
The words "used or occupied" include the words "intended, designed or arranged to be used or occupied."
The word "lot" includes the words "plot" or "parcel."
The following words, terms and phrases are hereby defined as follows and shall be interpreted as such throughout this ordinance. Terms not herein defined shall have the meaning customarily assigned to them.
Accessory building - A subordinate building, the use of which is incidental to that of a main building and located on the same lot therewith.
Accessory use - A use customarily incidental, appropriate and subordinate to the principal use of land or buildings and located on the same lot therewith.
Alterations - As applied to a building or structure, means a change or rearrangement in the structural parts, or an enlargement, whether by extending on a side or by increasing in height, for public utility purposes.
Area, building - The total area taken on a horizontal plane at the average ground elevation of the principal building and all accessory buildings exclusive of uncovered porches, terraces and steps.
Automobile wrecking - The dismantling, storage, sale, or dumping of used motor vehicles, not in running condition, or parts thereof.
Bed and breakfast inn - An owner-occupied dwelling unit that contains no more than six (6) guest rooms where short-term lodging, with or without meals, is provided for compensation.
Billboard - See "Sign."
Boarding or rooming house - A dwelling other than a hotel where, for compensation and by prearrangement for definite periods, meals are provided for three (3) or more but not exceeding twelve (12) persons on a weekly or monthly basis.
Buffer - An area of natural vegetation or manmade construction, which is intended to provide a visual and dimensional separation between dissimilar land uses.
(1)
Natural buffer: A visual screen of natural vegetation six (6) feet in height or any combination of existing and replanted vegetation which can reasonably be expected to be at least six (6) feet in height within two (2) growing seasons with such density so as to present an opaque visual separation when viewed from one (1) side to the other throughout the year.
(2)
Structural buffer: A visual screen created through construction of a solid wooden fence, decorative masonry wall, earthen berm, or combination of fence or wall with an earthen berm, supplemented with vegetation, so as to present an opaque visual separation when viewed from one (1) side to the other throughout the year.
Building height - The vertical distance measured from the average ground elevation to the highest point of the roof for flat roofs, to the deck line of mansard roofs, and to the mean height between eaves and ridge for gable, hip and gambrel roofs.
City - Each city within Harris County that has adopted this ordinance.
Clinic - See "Medical facility."
Commercial outdoor recreation development (CORD) - A development of at least five (5) acres or more that encompasses active and/or passive outdoor recreational activities.
Community unit planned development (CUPD) - A development of at least five hundred (500) acres or more encompassing planned mixed-use of property and buildings as permitted in A-O, R-1, R-2, R-3, C-1, C-3, C-4, CORD, and M-1 districts, the nature of which is to encourage the integration of diverse land uses and promote sustainable economic growth.
County - Any reference to "county" used within this ordinance will denote Harris County, Georgia.
Coverage - The lot area covered by all buildings located therein, including the area covered by all overhanging roofs.
Day care home, family - A home occupation which provides for six (6) or less persons who are not residents of the premises, care and supervision by a State of Georgia registered resident adult for less than twenty-four (24) hours per day on a regular basis for compensation.
District - Any section or sections of the county or city for which the regulations governing the use of land and the use, density, bulk, height, and coverage of buildings and other structures are uniform.
Drive-in commercial uses - Any retail commercial use providing considerable off-street parking and catering primarily to vehicular trade such as drive-in restaurants, drive-in theaters, and similar uses.
Dwelling unit - One (1) room or rooms connected together, constituting a separate, independent housekeeping establishment for occupancy by one (1) family, and physically separated from other rooms or dwelling units which may be in the same structure, and containing independent cooking, sleeping and sanitary facilities.
Dwelling - See "Residence."
Exclusionary zoning - Only the uses contained in article 4 shall be allowed in the listed zones.
Family - One (1) or more persons related by blood, marriage, or adoption, consisting of spouse, children, grandchildren, parents, or grandparents, or who requires medical attention, guardianship, or assistance due to disability, occupying the premises and living as a single nonprofit housekeeping unit as distinguished from a group occupying a boarding or lodging house, hotel, club, or similar dwelling for group use. A family shall be deemed to include domestic servants employed by said family.
Farm dinner - A meal held on a working sustainable farm and comprised of agricultural products (fruits, produce and meat products) predominately raised on said farm, open to the general public, and limited to once a calendar quarter.
Farm tour, educational - A tour on a working sustainable farm for the purpose of providing learning experiences about life on a farm. Examples include but are not limited to a walking tour, a self-driving tour, or a riding tour on a wagon or hay ride. May include a snack shop as an accessory use (see article II, definition and article IV, section 2).
Farmers' market - A place of business not exceeding 2,000 square feet located on a working sustainable farm of at least 25 acres in which agricultural products (fruits, produce, meat products, and dairy products), at least 50 percent of which are grown on the working farm with the remainder being from other, preferably local, locations, are made available for purchase by consumers. May include a snack shop (see definition).
Festival, agricultural/educational - An event which centers on and celebrates some unique aspect of the community such as strawberry, blueberry or butterfly festival, but does not include carnivals. A festival is limited to three days in duration and not more than three festivals in a calendar year on the same parcel and/or under the same ownership/applicant (person or entity). A detailed operational plan must be submitted with the special use permit application stating the type of festival, the type and number of vendors, the hours of operation, a scaled-drawing showing the location of event and the parking areas, and any other information deemed pertinent.
Filling station - See "Gasoline service station."
Floating zone - A zoning technique under which the county adopts a zoning district in the text of the zoning ordinance but is not placed on the official zoning map. The county reserves the mapping decision until a developer makes an application to have the floating zone applied to his property. Each floating zone will have density and site development standards.
Floor area - The sum of the gross floor area for each of the several stories under roof, measured from the exterior limits or faces of a building or structure.
Frontage - All the property on one (1) side of a street between two (2) intersecting streets (crossing or terminating) measured along the line of the street, or if the street is dead ended, then all of the property abutting on one (1) side between an intersecting street and the dead end of the street.
Garage apartment - A dwelling unit for one (1) family erected above a private garage.
Garage, private - An accessory building or a part of a main building used for storage purpose only.
Garage, repair - A building in which are provided facilities for the care, servicing, repair, or equipping of motor vehicles.
Garbage - Discarded animal and vegetable refuse and trash.
Gasoline service station - Any area of land, including structures thereon, that is used for the retail sale of gasoline or oil but not butane or propane fuels, or automobile accessories, and incidental services, including facilities for lubricating, handwashing and cleaning, or otherwise servicing automobiles, but not including painting.
Generating facility, major - Facilities (including buildings, equipment, generators, etc.) which are designed and operated by public, private, or wholesale utilities which provide service (whether consumer based or wholesale) with a total output exceeding twenty (20) megawatts of power.
Generating facility, minor - Facilities (including buildings, equipment, generators, etc.) which are designed and operated by public or private utilities to provide service to their immediate customer base, and not exceeding a total output of twenty (20) megawatts of electrical power.
Green belt - A green belt is a five-foot strip of land which surrounds a commercial or manufacturing plant on three (3) sides and is planted with shrubs and trees. Green belt requirement may be waived by the Harris County Planning Commission.
Home occupation, residential - An occupation conducted in a dwelling unit, which is clearly subordinate to use of a dwelling unit for residential purposes. (See article V, section 12.1)
Home occupation, rural - An occupation conducted in a dwelling unit on a lot five acres or greater, which is clearly subordinate to the principal use of the parcel for dwelling and agricultural purposes, and does not change the residential and agricultural character of the area. (See article V, section 12.2)
Hospital - See "Medical facilities."
Hotel - A building occupied as the more or less temporary abiding place of individuals who are lodged with or without meals and in which there are more than twelve (12) sleeping rooms usually occupied singly and no provision made for cooking in any individual room or apartment.
Industrialized building - Any structure or component thereof which is wholly or in substantial part made, fabricated, formed, or assembled in manufacturing facilities for installation or assembly and installation on a building site and has been manufactured in such a manner that all parts or processes cannot be inspected at the installation site without disassembly, damage to, or destruction thereof, and bearing the approved insignia of the Commissioner of Community Affairs, Georgia Department of Community Affairs.
Junk - The term "junk" is defined to mean and shall include all scrap metals and their alloys, and bones, rags, used cloth, used rubber, used rope, used bottles, old cotton or used machinery, automobile wrecking, used tools, used appliances, used fixtures, used utensils, used boxes or crates, used pipe or pipe fittings, discarded building materials, used automotive or airplane tires, and other manufactured goods that are so worn, deteriorated or obsolete as to make them unusable in their existing condition; subject to being dismantled.
Junkyard - A lot, land or structure, or part thereof, used for the collecting, storage and/or sale of wastepaper, rags, scrap metal, discarded building materials or discarded machinery or vehicles not in running condition, or for the sale of parts thereof.
Kennel - Any building, lot, or premises on, or in which four (4) or more dogs, cats, or similar pets (at least eight (8) weeks of age) are kept. Any building, lot, or premises where dogs, cats, or similar pets are housed or accepted for boarding, for which remuneration is received.
Landfill, inert - A disposal site accepting only wastes that will not or are not likely to cause productions of leachate of environmental concern. Such wastes are limited to dirt and dirtlike products, concrete, rock, bricks, yard trimmings, stumps, limbs, and leaves. This definition excludes industrial and construction demolition wastes as defined by state codes applicable at the date of adoption of this ordinance or as amended from time to time by law.
Live-work unit - Buildings, or spaces within buildings, that are used jointly for commercial and low-density residential purposes, where the two are physically connected in one unit and the residential area of the space is accessory/secondary to the primary use as a place of work. This use is distinguished from a home occupation for which the work space is smaller and the floor space for live-work is specifically designed for both living and working areas.
Loading space - A space within the main building or on the same lot therewith, providing for the standing, loading, or unloading of a truck.
Lot - A parcel of land which is or may be occupied by a building and its accessory buildings or use customarily incident thereto, together with such yards or open spaces with the lot lines as may be required by this ordinance.
Lot area - The total horizontal area included within lot lines.
Lot, corner - A lot of which at least two (2) adjoining sides abut for their full lengths on a street, provided that the interior angle at the intersection of two (2) such sides is less than one hundred thirty-five (135) degrees.
Lot depth - The average distance from the street line of the lot to its rear line, measured in the general direction of the side lines of the lot.
Lot lines - The lines bounding a lot as defined herein.
Lot lines, front - In the case of an interior lot, the lines separating said lot from the street. In the case of a corner or double-frontage lot, the line separating said lot from the street in the request for building permit.
Lot lines, rear - The lot boundary opposite and most distant from the front lot line. In the case of a pointed or irregular lot, it shall be an imaginary line parallel to and farthest from the front lot line, not less than ten (10) feet long and wholly within the lot.
Lot line, side - A side lot line is any lot boundary line not a front lot line or rear lot line.
Lot width - The width of a lot at the building setback line measured at right angles to its depth.
Manufacturing - M-1 (Light Manufacturing) - The manufacture of items and goods for wholesale, or on-premises sales. The following are examples of light manufacturing:
Advertising displays
Bakery products
Beverages, nonalcoholic
Bottling works for beverages
Book binding and tooling
Brooms and brushes
Candy and other confectionery products
Canvas products
Costume jewelry and miscellaneous notions
Curtains and draperies
Custom furniture making, cabinet shops
Dairy products
Dental equipment and supplies
Floor coverings
Grain mill products
Ice
Medical and other professional instruments
Printing and publishing
Watches, clocks, clockwork-operated devices and parts
Yarns and threads
Manufacturing and sexually oriented establishments; M-2 (Heavy manufacturing uses and sexually oriented establishment uses) - The manufacture of items and goods for wholesale which has more than ten (10) employees or the operation of a sexually oriented establishment as defined in this ordinance and the ordinance to regulate sexually oriented establishments in Harris County, Georgia. The following are examples of heavy manufacturing:
Aircraft, including parts
Apparel and other textile products
Automatic temperature control
Automobiles, trucks, trailers, and parts
Boat manufacture
Brick and structural tile
Building materials
Canning of food, beverages
Ceramic products
Cigarettes, cigars and other tobacco products
Communications equipment, including radio and TV
Concrete and concrete products
Cosmetics and toiletries
Cotton gin
Cut stone and allied products
Cutlery, hand tools and general hardware
Electrical appliances
Electrical machinery, equipment and supplies
Engines and turbines
Fabricated metal products
Fan machinery and equipment
Food and kindred products (except meats)
Furniture (wood and metal)
Glass and glass products
Gum and wood chemicals
Hardwood flooring
Leather products
Luggage
Metal cans
Metal stamping
Millwork (wood)
Motorcycle, bicycle
Musical instruments
Pharmaceutical products
Photographic equipment and supplies
Plastic products
Porcelain products
Silverware
Steel products
Toys
Wax products
Wood products
Manufacturing - M1, M-2 (Permitted on approval of board of commissioners only):
Agricultural chemicals
Ammunition
Animal and marine fats and oils
Asphalt or asphalt products
Carbon
Cement
Chemicals, general unless specified elsewhere
Clay refractories
Coal, coke or related tar products
Coffee and coffee products
Explosives
Fertilizers
Fur goods
Gas or gas products
Glue
Gypsum
Hair processing
Leather or fur tanning, curing, finishing or dying [Dyeing]
Iron or steel
Lime products
Matches
Meat and meat products, to include meat processing or slaughter operations
Metal casting and processing
Monument works
Paint and allied products
Paper and allied products
Paper-bound containers and boxes
Petroleum products
Plastic, raw
Railroad equipment
Rubber and rubber products
Soaps and detergents
Stone processing
Sugar refining
Wood or lumber processing, including wood pulp or fiber
Manufactured housing (mobile home) unit - A structure, transportable in one or more sections, which, in the traveling mode, is eight body feet or more in width or 40 body feet or more in length, or when erected on site, is 320 or more square feet and which is built on a permanent chassis and designed to be used as a dwelling with or without a permanent foundation when connected to the required utilities and includes the plumbing, heating, air-conditioning, and electrical systems contained herein; except that such term shall include any structure which meets all the requirements of this paragraph except the size requirements and with respect to which the manufacturer voluntarily files a certification required by the secretary of Housing and Urban Development (HUD) and complies with the standards established under the National Manufactured Housing Construction and Safety Standards Act of 1974, 42 U.S.C. Section 5401, et seq.
Manufactured housing (mobile home) unit, pre-owned - Any manufactured housing unit that has been previously used as a residential dwelling and has been titled.
Manufactured housing unit park - Any area, tract, site or plot of land whereupon a minimum of four manufactured housing unit spaces as herein defined where manufactured housing units are placed, located or maintained, or intended to be placed, located or maintained, and shall include all accessory buildings used or intended to be used as part of the equipment thereof.
Editor's note— The term "manufactured housing unit spaces" is not defined in this article. Regulations are found in art. V, §§ 14, 15.
Medical facilities -
Dental or medical clinic - A facility for the examination and treatment of ill and afflicted human outpatients provided, however, that patients are not kept overnight except under emergency conditions.
Hospital - An institution providing health services primarily for human in-patient medical or surgical care for the sick or injured and including related facilities such as laboratories, out-patient departments, training facilities, central services facilities, and staff offices which are an integral part of the facilities.
Health clinic - A facility primarily utilized by a health unit for the provision of public health services including related facilities such as laboratories, clinics, and administrative offices operated in connection therewith.
Health club - Buildings and facilities owned and operated for physical body conditioning purposes, and operated primarily for profit or to render a service which is carried over as a business.
Nursing home, personal care home, assisted living - A health facility where persons are housed and furnished with meals and continuing nursing care for compensation.
Motel - A building or group of buildings used for the temporary residence of motorists or travelers.
Natural disaster - Flood, tornado, fire, earthquake, etc.
Nonconforming use - A building, structure or use of land existing at the time of enactment of this ordinance and which does not conform to the regulations of the district in which it is situated.
Park - Would include camping sites, camping grounds, primitive camping, boat launching sites.
Parking lot - An off-street facility including parking spaces along with adequate provision for drives and aisles for maneuvering and giving access, and for entrance and exit, all laid out in a way to be usable for the parking of more than six automobiles.
Parking space - An off-street space available for the parking of one motor vehicle and having an area of not less than 200 square feet exclusive of passageways and driveways appurtenant thereto and giving access.
Planned unit developments (PUDs) - Land development projects comprehensively planned as an entity via a unitary site plan which permits flexibility in building siting, mixtures of housing types and land uses, usable open spaces, and the preservation of significant natural features. The following are types of planned unit developments permitted in Harris County.
Planned residential development - A planned development whose primary or principal land use is residential;
Planned commercial development - A planned development whose primary or principal land use is commercial;
Planned manufacturing development - A planned development whose primary or principal land use is manufacturing.
Planning commission - The Harris County Planning Commission.
Produce stand - A seasonal structure not exceeding 500 square feet in which fruits and vegetables are made available for purchase by consumers.
Public uses - Public parks, schools, and administrative, cultural, and service buildings not including public land or buildings devoted solely to storage and maintenance of equipment and material.
Range - A place where shooting is practiced. Any range shall be of sufficient size and configuration to contain the flight of any projectile within its boundaries.
Residence, single-family - A detached building designed for one welling unit to be occupied exclusively by one family.
Residence, two-family - A detached building designed to be occupied by two families living independently of each other.
Residence, three or more families - A building designed for three or more dwelling units to be occupied by a number of families not exceeding the number of dwelling units provided.
Resort development - Shall mean a development of at least 500 acres or more that encompasses active and passive recreational activities, housing, and other supportive commercial land uses such as restaurants, shops and motels. The recreational activities shall be open to the public and development of these shall be concurrent with the proposed housing development. In order to be defined as a resort development at least five of these activities shall be proposed: 1) golf, 2) tennis, 3) swimming pool, 4) boating, 5) beach, 6) walking trail, 7) horseback riding, 8) amusement devises as defined by current amusement standards, or others as approved by Harris County Planning Commission.
School, public - A tax-supported institution of learning, including colleges and universities.
School, semipublic - An institution of learning, including colleges and universities.
Self-service laundry - A laundry providing home-type washing, drying, and/or ironing machines for hire to be used primarily by the customers on the premises.
Sexually oriented establishments - An adult arcade; adult bookstore, adult novelty store or adult video store; adult cabaret; adult motel; adult motion picture theater; adult theater; escort agency; massage parlor; nude model studio; or sexual encounter center, as each such classification of establishments so listed above is defined in the ordinance to regulate sexually oriented establishments in Harris County, Georgia.
Shopping center - A group of commercial establishments, planned, developed, owned and managed as a unit, with off-street parking provided on the property and related in its location, size, and type of shops to the trade area which the unit serves.
Snack shop - The selling of prepackaged sealed foods, which require no further warming, heating, refrigeration, or preparation and/or the selling of prepackaged sealed nonalcoholic beverages, which require no further warming, heating, or preparation.
Solar collection system - A panel or other solar energy device, the primary purpose of which is to provide the collection, inversion, storage, and distribution of solar energy for the generation of electricity, space heating, space cooling or water heating. A solar collection system is considered an accessory use in resort zoning districts, except for residential uses located therein, and is permitted on five acres or less of land. See supplemental regulations for additional information.
Solar energy equipment - Any device associated with a solar energy system, such as an outdoor electrical unit/control box, that transfers solar energy from the solar energy system to the intended on-site structure.
Special events facility. Any place kept, used, maintained, advertised, and held out to the public as a place which serves as a location for special events including, but not limited to, weddings and receptions, anniversary receptions, bar/bat mitzvah receptions, birthday parties, and other such parties, receptions or events. Such facility will have a seating capacity of at least 50 people. Such facility shall include, but not be limited to, reception halls, conference centers, and banquet centers which have applied for and been issued a special use permit for a special events facility, and shall not include places of worship or restaurants. The special use shall also allow catering to take place on-site without the need for rezoning.
Special exception - A special exception is a use which is compatible with the primary district use but, because of its nature, should be considered by the board of commissioners through application for issuance of a special use permit.
Special use permit - A permit required as a precondition to a certain land use under this ordinance which is identified as a special exception. The grant of a special use permit is identified as a zoning decision of the Harris County Board of Commissioners, therefore, requiring a public notice and hearing.
Story - That portion of a building included between the surface of any floor and the surface of the floor next above it, or if there be no floor above it, then the space between the floor and ceiling next above it.
Street - A public or private thoroughfare which affords the principal means of access to abutting property.
Street line - The legal line between street right-of-way and abutting property.
Structure - "Structure" means a combination of materials to form a construction that is safe and stable and includes among other things stadiums, platforms, radio and television towers, sheds, storage bins, fences, and display signs.
Temporary building - A temporary building may be a mobile home, metal or wood building which may be used on site before and during construction. See "Exceptions and modifications," section V [article VII].
Trailer - Manufactured housing (mobile home) units.
Trailer, travel or camping - A portable or mobile living unit used for recreative occupancy away from the place of residence of the occupants, and not constituting the principal place of residence of the occupants, a unit eight feet wide or less not inspected by the State Fire Commissioner's Office or U.S. Department of Housing and Urban Development (HUD).
Use - The specific purpose for which land or building is designed, arranged, or intended, and for which it is or may be lawfully occupied or maintained. The term "permitted use" or its equivalent shall not be deemed to include any nonconforming use.
Utility, private - An establishment whose primary business is to provide essential services directly to a specified group of the general public who are not provided such services by a public utility (i.e. private community water or sewage systems that serve a homeowners' association or other limited group of individuals)."
Utility, public - An establishment whose primary business is to provide essential services directly to the general public such as electricity, water, gas, sewage, telephone, etc. Rates charged by such utilities are regulated by state public service commission.
Utility, wholesale - An establishment whose primary business is to provide services and/or products to public utilities. Rates charged by such utilities are not regulated by the state public service commission.
Variance - A modification of a zoning district regulation development requirement approved by the board of zoning adjustment, otherwise required under article IV, section 3, which is approved by the board of zoning adjustments.
Yard - An open space between a building and the adjoining lot lines, unoccupied and unobstructed by any portion of a structure from the ground upward except where otherwise specifically provided in this ordinance. In measuring a yard for the purpose of determining the width of the side yard, the depth of a front yard of [or] the depth of a rear yard, the shortest horizontal distance between the lot line and the main building shall be used.
Yard, front - An open, unoccupied space on the same lot with a main building extending the full width of the lot and situated between the street line and the front line of the building projected to the side line of the lot. The depth of the front yard shall be measured between the front line of the building and the street line.
Yard, rear - An open (other than for permitted accessory structures) space on the same lot with the principal building between the rear line of the building and the rear line of the lot and extending the full width of the lot.
Yard, side - An open, unoccupied space on the same lot with the building, situated between the building and the side line of the lot and extending from the front yard to the rear yard. Any lot line not a rear line or a front line shall be deemed a side line.
Zoning condition - Any stipulation made by the board of commissioners as a part of a zoning decision affecting property which imposes a requirement on the use or development of property which is different from the use or development regulations set forth in the zoning district to which the property is being rezoned. By way of example, but not as a limitation, such zoning conditions may relate to the use, density, construction materials, architectural style and design, location of structures, and buffer area.
Zoning decision - Final action by the board of commissioners which results in:
a)
The adoption of a zoning ordinance;
b)
The adoption of an amendment to a zoning ordinance which changes the text of the zoning ordinance;
c)
The adoption of an amendment to the zoning ordinance which rezones property from one zoning district to another; or
d)
The grant of a special use permit.
(Ord. of 12-4-90; Ord. No. 1-93A, 6-1-93; Ord. No. 4-96, 7-2-96; Ord. No. 10-98, 8-4-98; Ord. No. 11-98, 8-4-98; Ord. No. 01-99, 7-6-99; Ord. No. 02-00, 5-2-2000; Ord. No. 08-00, 9-5-2000; Ord. No. 02-01, 3-6-2001; Ord. No. 07-03, § 2, 8-19-2003; Ord. No. 05-04, §§ 1, 2, 8-17-2004; Ord. No. 03-06, § 1, 6-6-2006; Ord. No. 04-07, § 1, 7-3-2007; Ord. No. 10-07, § 1, 12-4-2007; Ord. No. 06-08, § 1, 9-2-2008; Ord. No. 07-08, § 1, 9-2-2008; Ord. No. 02-09, § 1, 5-5-2009; Ord. No. 02-11, § 1A, 2-1-2011; Ord. No. 01-12, § 1A, 1-3-2012; Ord. No. 03-12, § 1A, 4-3-2012; Ord. No. 05-12, § 1, 5-1-2012; Ord. No. 09-12, § 1, 10-2-2012; Ord. No. 10-12, § 1, 10-2-2012; Ord. No. 11-12, § 1, 10-2-2012; Ord. No. 02-13 , § 1A, 10-1-2013; Ord. No. 03-14 , § 1A—D, 10-7-2014; Ord. No. 06-14 , § 1A, 11-4-2014; Ord. No. 02-17 , § 1A, 8-1-2017; Ord. No. 01-19 ; § 1A, 1-15-2019)
ARTICLE III. - ZONING DISTRICTS AND MAP

Sec. 1. - Establishment of zoning districts.
For purposes of this ordinance, the county is hereby divided into districts, as follows:
EXPAND
Apartment/Office
A/O Apartment and Office Building
Agricultural
A-1 General Agricultural and Forestry District
Residential
R-R Rural Residential District
R-1 Low-Density Residential District
R-2 Medium-Density Residential District
R-3 High-Density Residential District
Commercial
C-1 Central Commercial District
C-3 Neighborhood Commercial District
C-4 Highway Commercial District
Manufacturing
M-1 General Manufacturing District
M-2 Heavy Manufacturing District and Sexually OrientedEstablishment District
Manufactured Housing
MHU-1 Manufactured Housing Unit District—Parks
MHU-2 Manufactured Housing Unit District—Subdivisions
[Floating]
[CORD] [Commercial Outdoor Recreation Development]
PRD Planned Residential Development
PCD Planned Commercial Development
PMD Planned Manufacturing Development
CUPD Community Unit Planned Development
  (Ord. No. 1-93C, 10-5-93; Ord. No. 1-94A, 1-4-94; Ord. No. 11-98, 8-4-98; Ord. No. 02-01, 3-6-2001; Ord. No. 05-04, § 3, 8-17-2004)
Sec. 2. - Zoning map.
The location and boundaries of the zoning districts established by this ordinance are bounded and defined as shown on the maps entitled "Zoning Map of Harris County, Georgia." Said map shall also be identified by the signature of the clerk of the board of commissioners and the date of adoption of this ordinance. The zoning maps and all explanatory matters thereon are hereby adopted and made a part of this ordinance.
Changes made in district boundaries or other matters portrayed on the zoning maps shall be entered on said maps promptly after such change has been approved by the governing authority together with an entry on the maps showing the date and ordinance number such action was approved. No amendment to this ordinance which involves matters portrayed on the zoning maps shall become effective until such change and entry has been made on said maps.
Zoning maps shall be kept and maintained by the building inspector and shall be available for inspection and examination by the public at all reasonable times.
Sec. 3. - Interpretation of zoning boundaries.
Where uncertainty exists as to the boundaries of districts as shown on the zoning maps, the following rules shall apply:
1.
Boundaries shown as following or approximately following streets, highways or alleys shall be construed to follow the center lines of such streets, highways or alleys.
2.
Boundaries shown as following or approximately following railroad lines shall be construed to follow the right-of-way of said railroad line.
3.
Boundaries shown as following or approximately following platted lot lines or other property lines shall be construed to be said lot lines.
4.
Boundaries indicated as following or approximately following shorelines shall be construed to follow such shorelines and in the event of change in the shoreline shall be construed as moving with the actual shoreline; boundaries indicated as following or approximately following the center lines of streams, rivers, canals, lakes or other bodies of water shall be construed to follow such center lines.
5.
Boundaries indicated as following or approximately following the city limits of the appropriate city shall be construed as following such city limits.
6.
Distances not specifically indicated on the zoning map shall be determined by the scale of the map.
When the application of the aforementioned rules leaves a reasonable doubt as to the boundaries between two districts, the regulations of the more restrictive district shall govern the entire parcel in question, unless otherwise determined by the board of zoning adjustment.
ARTICLE IV. - ZONING DISTRICT OBJECTIVES, USES AND REGULATIONS

Sec. 1. - District objectives.
1.1. A/O Apartment/Office:
The purpose of this district is to create an environment especially suited to a group of professional, general administrative and general sales offices, together with high-density residential uses.
1.2. A-1 General Agricultural and Forestry District:
The objective of this district is to preserve land areas suitable for eventual rezoning when the need and availability of community facilities warrant its development. The types of uses, area and intensity of development permitted in this district are designed to protect agricultural uses until rezoning is warranted and appropriate changes in districts can be made.
This district also allows live-work units. See definitions (article II) and supplementary district regulations (article V).
No new A-1 General Agricultural and Forestry District can be created which contains less than four acres.
1.3. R-R Rural Residential District:
The objective of this district is to preserve the natural resources and environmentally sensitive areas of the county while providing for low density residential use.
No new R-R district may be created which contains less than ten acres.
1.4. R-1 Low-Density Residential District:
The objective of this district is to preserve land areas for single dwelling unit structures and to promote residential areas with low densities. These areas are intended to be geographically defined and protected from the encroachment of uses not performing a function necessary to a residential environment. Certain nonresidential uses which are more compatible with residential uses may be permitted on review by the board of zoning adjustment. In addition to the primary structure, only one detached residential structure shall be permitted on the same lot as the primary structure, shall be on the same utilities as the primary structure, shall be no more than 800 square feet, and shall be located to the rear or side yard of the primary structure. Prohibited are: detached structures which may be or are intended to be rented out as living areas.
No new R-1 Low-Density Residential District may be created which contains less than four (4) acres.
1.5. R-2 Medium-Density Residential District:
The objective of this district is to provide and preserve land areas for single dwelling unit structures and low-density multiple dwelling unit structures, not to exceed two dwelling units per structure, which will achieve an overall medium density of residential development. Certain uses which are more compatible with residential uses than with nonresidential uses are also permitted on review of the board of zoning adjustment. R-2 districts should be located in areas with good proximity to central community facilities and in areas where a stable transition from one district or density or development to another is desirable.
No new R-2 Medium-Density Residential District may be created which contains less than four acres.
1.6. R-3 High-Density Residential District:
The objective of this district is to promote and encourage the development of multidwelling unit structures in areas served by facilities and services necessary to result in efficient, but not overcrowded, high-density residential development. Intensities of land development should be limited to avoid congestion of building and traffic and to provide adequate open space for a healthful and tasteful environment. Nonresidential uses permitted on review should be limited to those necessary to directly serve residents in high-density residential districts.
No new R-3 High-Density Residential District may be created which contains less than four acres.
1.7. C-1 Central Business [Commercial] District:
The objective of this district is to provide and preserve a central area of intensive commercial, financial, professional, governmental and cultural activities scaled to pedestrian needs. Uses which do not require a central location and create hazards in the performance of centralized functions are discouraged.
This district also allows live-work units. See definitions (article II) and supplementary district regulations (article V).
No new C-1 Central Business [Commercial] District may be created which contains less than four acres.
1.8. C-3 Neighborhood Commercial District:
The objective of this district is to encourage unified groupings of retail and personnel service outlets that provide for the daily needs and the convenience of residential neighborhood residents. It is intended that neighborhood shopping areas be developed as units with adequate off-street parking and access controls and with appropriate buffers to protect and preserve surrounding residential development.
This district also allows live-work units. See definitions (article II) and supplementary district regulations (article V).
No new C-3 Neighborhood Commercial District may be created which contains less than three acres.
1.9. C-4 Highway Commercial District:
The objective of this district is to provide areas for the development of commercial establishments which cater specifically to motor vehicle needs. It is also the intent of this district to provide adequate land areas in terms of width and depth to meet the needs of commercial development where access is dependent on vehicular trade. In certain instances where the objectives of this district can be met, manufacturing activities where products are sold on the premises only may be permitted. The location and development of these commercial activities shall be encouraged so as to minimize traffic hazards and interference with adjacent uses.
This district also allows live-work units. See definitions (article II) and supplementary district regulations (article V).
No new C-4 Highway Commercial District may be created which contains less than four acres.
1.10. M-1 General Manufacturing District:
The objective of this district is to provide areas for the development of light manufacturing and assembly plants and their related activities. It is also the intent of this district that noise, odor, dust and glare associated with uses permitted in this district be confined with buildings so as to minimize the effects upon adjacent development and uses. It is also the intent of this district that traffic generated by uses permitted including raw materials, finished products and employees, be minimal but that transportation facilities and routes be easily accessible.
No new M-1 General Manufacturing District may be created which contains less than five acres.
1.11. M-2 Heavy Manufacturing District and Sexually Oriented Establishment District:
The objective of this district is to provide areas which are suitable for manufacturing uses which might produce objectionable characteristics as a part of their normal operational activities but to minimize their effects upon surrounding development through strict adherence to performance standards and by review of manufacturing uses which produce abnormal objectional characteristics and to provide areas which are suitable for sexually oriented establishment uses which studies have shown might produce objectionable characteristics through adverse secondary effects into the surrounding community.
No new M-2 Heavy Manufacturing District or Sexually Oriented Establishment District may be created which contains less than ten acres.
1.12. MHU-1 Manufactured Housing Unit District—Parks:
The objective of this district is to provide areas within the county for the placement of manufactured housing units in parks which are designed for the placement of manufactured housing units.
No new MHU-1 district may be created which contains less than four acres.
1.13. MHU-2 Manufactured Housing Unit District—Subdivisions:
The objective of this district is to provide areas within the county for placement of manufactured housing units in concentrated locations and for proper management of land development. The district shall permit subdivisions designed for the placement of manufactured housing units. This district also allows single-family residences.
No new MHU-2 district may be created which contains less than four acres.
1.14. CORD—Commercial Outdoor Recreation Development District:
This district is a floating zone. The objective of this district is to provide areas for private recreational facilities and activities. No CORD district may be created which contains less than five acres. This does not include seasonal hunting rights between consenting parties.
1.15 PRD—Planned Residential Development
A planned development with principal land use designated as residential; R-1, R-2, R-3. Commercial uses are secondary and may include C-1, C-3, non-residential A-1, and CORD district uses, with limitations provided in Section 3, subsection 3.15, without requiring specific zoning for non-residential uses. The intent is to encourage development in areas of the county that have the required infrastructure and are capable of supporting the residential recreational, and commercial features. No new PRD district may be created which contains less than 100 acres.
1.16 PCD—Planned Commercial Development
A planned development whose primary or principle land use is commercial. Residential, as well as CORD District uses are permitted, provided they are secondary to the commercial use of the development. No new PCD District may be created which contains less than 50 acres.
1.17 PMD—Planned Manufacturing Development
A planned development whose primary or principle land use is manufacturing. Residential, commercial, and CORD District uses are permitted, provided they are secondary to the manufacturing use of the development. No new PMD District may be created which contains less than 100 acres.
1.18—Resort
The objective of this district is to provide areas within the county to encompass recreational activities as well as other related activities in order to promote tourism and serve existing residents of the county and cities. The district may include temporary and permanent housing.
No new resort development district shall be created after October 6, 1993. It is the intent that all property designated and zoned as Resort development which existed on October 6, 1993 shall be permitted to exist unless otherwise rezoned. After August 19, 2003 no Resort zone shall be enlarged, subdivided or otherwise changed without being rezoned in accordance with the Harris County Zoning Ordinance for the zone and uses intended for the subdivision or change.
1.19—Community Unit Planned Development. A planned development which requires the mixed-use of apartments/offices (A/O), low-density residential (R-1), medium-density residential (R-2), high-density residential (R-3), central commercial (C-1), neighborhood commercial (C-3), highway commercial (C-4), general manufacturing (M-1), and commercial outdoor recreation (CORD) in areas that can physically and environmentally accommodate such development and where sufficient transportation infrastructure, utility infrastructure, and governmental services are either planned or readily available to support the development. No new CUPD district may be created which contains less than 500 acres.
(Ord. of 12-4-90; Ord. No. 1-93C, 10-5-93; Ord. No. 1-94A, 1-4-94; Ord. No. 11-98, 8-4-98; Ord. No. 02-01, 3-6-2001; Ord. No. 07-03, § 3, 8-19-2003; Ord. No. 05-04, § 4, 8-17-2004; Ord. No. 04-07, § 2, 7-3-2007; Ord. No. 06-08, §§ 2—5, 9-2-2008; Ord. No. 11-10, § 1A, 11-2-2010; Ord. No. 03-19 , § 1, 6-18-2019)
Sec. 2. - Permitted uses in zoning districts.
The following schedule sets forth the uses permitted in the zoning districts established in article III, section 1, subject to the following:
1.
Compliance with zoning district regulations set forth in section 3 of this article; and supplementary district regulations found in article V.
2.
Provision of off-street parking as required by the following schedule of uses and as provided in article V, section 3.
3.
Compliance with the applicable special use regulations as referenced in the following schedule of uses.
4.
(a)
Applications for special exceptions in zoning districts denoted by an "*" shall be initiated by the filing of an application for special use permit with the Harris County Department of Community Development. Applications shall be submitted in accordance with a schedule adopted annually by the board of commissioners. The planning commission and the board of commissioners shall hold public hearings in accordance with the adopted schedule.
(b)
Applicant shall post a sign as set forth in article X, section 1(c)(b)(1), (2), (4), (5), (6) and (7);
(c)
Applicant's sign shall read as follows:
EXPAND
NOTICE OF SPECIAL USE APPLICATION
Applicant or Owner:
Address:
Telephone:
Proposed Use:
Date & Time of Planning Commission Hearing:
Date & Time of Board of Commissioners Hearing:
Location of Hearings:
Additional Information: Harris County Department of Community Development, 706-628-4700
  (d)
The department of community development shall provide public notification as set forth in article X, section 1(c)(a);
(e)
The department of community development shall notify the abutting property owners as set forth in article X, section 1(c)(c);
(f)
The public hearing procedures shall be as set forth in article X, section 1(d);
(g)
The planning commission public hearing and action shall be as set forth in article X, section 1(e);
(h)
The board of commissioners public hearing and action shall be as set forth in article X, section 1(f);
(i)
The board of commissioners, in making its decision, shall consider the zoning standards as set forth in article X, section 1(g) in its review of the special use permit being sought by the applicant.
All land, buildings, and structures located in this county shall be used only in accordance with uses permitted in the zoning district in which such land, buildings, or structures are located. Such permitted uses are shown on the following schedule of uses. Any use not specifically permitted by the applicable zoning district is prohibited.
The following schedule of use [uses] is a chart designed to indicate a specific use of land, the citation to any special use regulations which apply to that use, all off-street parking space requirements which apply to that use, and all zoning districts in which that use is permitted.
EXPAND
Use Special Use
Regulation
Article and Section
Number Applicable
to Each Use Off-Street
Parking Space
Requirements
For Each Use Zoning District
in Which Use
is Permitted
Article Section
Number
1. Accessory Building V 6 None All
2. Advertising Agency None 1-300 sq. ft. floor area C-1, C-3, C-4, A/O
3. Agricultural Production:
A. Animals (no sales) None None A-1, R-R, M-1, M-2
B. Crops (no sales) None None A-1, R-R, R-1, M-1, M-2
C. Sale of product on premises None None A-1, M-1, M-2
4. Air Conditioning Supplies and Parts None 1-300 sq. ft. floor area C-1, C-4, M-1
5. Aircraft Sales and Service None 1-200 sq. ft. floor area C-4
6. Airports VI 9 None A-1*
7. Alarm Systems None 1-300 sq. ft. floor area C-1, C-4
8. Ambulance Service None 1-each employee C-1, C-4, M-1, M-2
9. Ammunition Manufacturing None 1½-employee
plus 1500 sq. ft. floor area M-1*, M-2*
10. Amusement Parks, Commercial None 1-200 sq. ft. floor area CORD*
11. Animal Hospital and Service None 1-400 sq. ft. floor area C-1, C-4
12. Antiques (See Specialty Shop [No. 136])
13. Apparel and Accessories Sales (Including Shoes) None 1-300 sq. ft. floor area C-1, C-3, C-4, A/O
14. Apparel Service (Other Than Dry Cleaning, Laundering) None 1-300 sq. ft. floor area C-1, C-3, C-4
15. Appliance Sales and Service None 1-300 sq. ft. floor area C-1, C-3, C-4
16. Art Gallery None 1-300 sq. ft. floor area C-1, C-3, C-4
17. Auditoriums, Arenas, Auctions, Equine Boarding and Stable Facilities, Exhibit Halls None 1-each 3 seats A-1*, C-1*, C-4*
18. Automotive:
A. Accessories and supplies None 1-300 sq. ft. floor area C-1, C-3, C-4
B. Repair and service-minor
(service station) V 17 1-300 sq. ft. floor area C-1, C-3, C-4
C. Sales None 1-300 sq. ft. floor area C-1, C-4
D. Washing None 10 - each lane C-1, C-3, C-4
E. Wrecking (see junkyard [No. 84])
F. Body and paint None 1-300 sq. ft. floor area C-1, C-4
19. Awning and canopy company None 1-300 sq. ft. floor area C-1, C-4
20. Bakery None 1-300 sq. ft. C-1, C-3, C-4, M-1
21. Bait shop None 1-300 sq. ft. floor area C-1, C-4
22. Bank and Financial Institutions None 1-300 sq. ft. floor area C-1, C-3, C-4, A/O
23. Barber and Beauty Shops None 1-200 sq. ft. floor area C-1, C-3, C-4, A/O
23.5. Bed and Breakfast Inns None 1-guest room A-1, R-R,
2-owner's dwelling unit R-1*, C-1*
24. Beer Sales - Package, and Carry Out - Retail None 1-200 sq. ft. floor area C-1, C-3, C-4
(Consumption on premises - see eating and drinking [No. 54])
25. Beer Sales - Wholesale None 1-300 sq. ft. floor area C-4, M-1
26. Bicycle Sales and Service None 1-300 sq. ft. floor area C-1, C-3, C-4
27. Billiard Hall None 1-300 sq. ft. floor area C-1, C-4
28. Blood Banks and Centers None 1-300 sq. ft. floor area C-1, C-4
29. Boat and Marine Rental, Sales, Repair and Storage None 1-400 sq. ft. floor area C-1, C-4, M-1
30. Book, Stationery, and Art Supply None 1-300 sq. ft. floor area C-1, C-3, C-4
31. Bottles Equipment and Supplies None 1-1½ employee plus 1-500 sq. ft. floor area M-1, M-2
32. Bowling Alleys None 5 each alley C-1, C-4
33. Building Materials - Retail and Wholesale (Excluding Lumberyards) None 1-400 sq. ft. floor area C-4, M-1, M-2
34. Cabinet Makers, Supplies and Equipment None 1-300 sq. ft. floor area C-1, C-4, M-1, M-2
35. Camera and Photographic Sales and Services None 1-300 sq. ft. floor area C-1, C-3, C-4
36. Carpet Cleaners None 1-300 sq. ft. floor area C-1, C-3, C-4
37. Catery [cattery] None 1-300 sq. ft. floor area C-1, C-3, C-4
38. Cemetery, Commercial V 11 None A-1*
39. Churches, Synagogues, Temples and Related Activities None 1 - 4 seats All districts
40. Civic, Social and Fraternal Organizations None 1-200 sq. ft. floor area A-1, C-1, C-3, C-4
41. Colleges and Universities:
A. Auditorium and similar facilities None 1 - 3 seats All districts*
B. Dormitories and similar facilities None 1 - 3 beds All districts*
C. All other facilities None 1-500 sq. ft. floor area All districts*
42. Condominiums and Townhouses V 18 2 per unit R-3, A/O
43. Contractor or Construction Offices and Shops None 1-400 sq. ft. floor area C-1, C-4, M-1
43.1 Corn Maze V 22 2 each acre lot area A-1*
44. Dancing Schools None 1-500 sq. ft. floor area C-1, C-3, C-4
45. Deer and Game Processing None 1-300 sq. ft. floor area A-1*, C-4*, M-1*, M-2*
46. Delicatessen None 1-200 sq. ft. floor area C-1, C-3, C-4
47. Dentist None 1-300 sq. ft. floor area plus 1 each employee C-1, C-3, C-4
48. Department Store None 1-300 sq. ft. floor area C-1, C-4
49. Drive-In Theater V 13 See special regulations C-4*
50. Dry Cleaning (See Laundering [No. 87])
51. Drugstore - Retail None 1-300 sq. ft. floor area C-1, C-3, C-4
52. Dry Goods, Fabrics and Notions - Retail None 1-300 sq. ft. floor area C-1, C-3, C-4
53. Dwelling (See Residential [No. 128])
54. Eating and Drinking:
A. Inside service None 1-200 sq. ft. floor area C-1, C-3, C-4, A/O
B. Automobile curb and drive-through None 1-200 sq. ft. floor area C-1, C-4
55. Electrical, Heating, and Plumbing Sales and Service None 1-400 sq. ft. floor area C-1, C-4, M-1
56. Employment Service None 1-500 sq. ft. floor area C-1, C-3, C-4
57. Equipment - Farm and Construction - Sales, Service and Repair None 1-500 sq. ft. floor area C-4, M-1, M-2
58. Exterminator - Pest None 1-500 sq. ft. floor area C-1, C-4
58.1 Farm Dinner None 1-300 sq. ft. floor area A-1*
59. Farm Supplies and Feed Processing None 1-500 sq. ft. floor area A-1*, C-1, C-4
59.1 Farm Tour, Educational V 22 2 each acre lot area A-1*
60. Farmers Market None 1-300 sq. ft. floor area A-1*
60.1 Festival, Agricultural/Educational None 1-300 sq. ft. floor area A-1*
61. Florist None 1-300 sq. ft. floor area C-1, C-3, C-4
62. Food Stores - Retail None 1-200 sq. ft. floor area C-1, C-3, C-4
63. Freight Depots - Truck and Rail None 1-1,000 sq. ft. floor area C-4, M-1, M-2
64. Fuel Storage None 1-each employee C-4*, M-1*, M-2*
65. Funeral Homes and Mortuaries None 1 - 3 seats in chapel C-4
66. Furniture None 1-400 sq. ft. floor area C-1, C-3, C-4
67. Garage - Repair (See Automobile [No. 18])
68. Garage Apartment None 2 spaces R-2, R-3
69. Gasoline Service Station
(See Automobile [No. 18])
70. Gift Shop None 1-300 sq. ft. floor area C-1, C-3, C-4
71. A. Golf course - 9- or 18-hole None 3 - hole CORD*
B. Golf course - miniature None 1-500 sq. ft. lot area CORD*
C. Golf course - driving range None 1-500 sq. ft. lot area CORD*
71.5. Group Home None 1-500 [sq. ft. floor area] A-1*
72. Gunsmith None 1-300 sq. ft. floor area C-1, C-3, C-4
73. Hardware - General Retail None 1-300 sq. ft. floor area C-1, C-3, C-4
74. Health Club None 1-400 sq. ft. floor area C-1, C-3, C-4, A/O
75. Heating, Electrical, and Plumbing Sales and Service None 1-400 sq. ft. floor area C-1, C-4, M-1
76. Heating Supply and Service (See Building Supply [No. 33])
77. Hobby Shops None 1-300 sq. ft. floor area C-1, C-3, C-4
78. Home Occupation
A. Residential V 12.1 Dependent upon use A-1, MHU-2, all R districts, Resort
B. Rural V 12.2 Dependent upon use A-1, R-R
79. Hospitals and Clinics (Excluding Animal) None 1 - 3 beds
1 - each employee C-1, C-4
80. A. Hotels None 1 per room C-1, C-4
B. Cocktail lounge/restaurant None 1-100 sq. ft. floor area
plus 1 per employee C-1, C-4
81. Household Furnishings None 1-400 sq. ft. floor area C-1, C-3, C-4
82. Ice Manufacture and Sales None 1-300 sq. ft. floor area C-4, M-1
83. Jewelry Stores - Sales and Service None 1-300 sq. ft. floor area C-1, C-3, C-4
84. Junkyards (Including Salvage and Scrap Metal) V 10 1-500 sq. ft. floor area M-1*, M-2*
85. Kennels None 1-300 sq. ft. floor area A-1*, C-4*
86. Landfill - Inert V 19 A-1*, M-1*, M-2*
87. Laundering and Dry Cleaning:
A. Plant None 1-each employee C-4, M-1
B. Pickup station None 1-300 sq. ft. floor area C-1, C-3, C-4
C. Self-service None 1-300 sq. ft. floor area C-1, C-3, C-4
88. Leather Goods (See Specialty Shop [No. 136])
89. Libraries None 1-each 3 seats All R and C districts*
90. Liquor Sales None 1-300 sq. ft. floor area C-1, C-4
91. Lumberyards and Millwork None 1-each employee plus 1-500 sq. ft. floor area C-4, M-1, M-2
92. Machinery Sales, Service and Rental None 1-500 sq. ft. floor area C-1, C-4, M-1
93. Mail Order Agency None 1-300 sq. ft. floor area C-1, C-3, C-4
94. Manufactured Housing Unit V 15 2-each unit A-1, MHU-1,
MHU-2
95. Manufactured Housing Park V 14 2-each unit plus 1-each 3 units MHU-1
96. Manufacturing (See Individual Uses)
97. Meat Packing, Butchering and/or Processing (See Deer and Game Processing [No. 45]) None 1-300 sq. ft. floor area M-1*, M-2*
98. Medical Services (See Hospitals and Clinics [No. 79] and Offices [No. 113.B])
99. Mental Homes, Sanitariums None 1-each 3 beds A-1*
100. Mining (Rock and Minerals) None None M-2*
101. Mini storage (self-service) None 1/10 units
1/employee C-3*, C-4, M-1*
102. Monument Sales None 1-1,000 sq. ft. lot area C-1, C-4
103. Motion Picture Theater (Excluding Drive-In) None 1-each 5 seats C-1, C-4
104. A. Motels None 1 per room C-1, C-4
B. Cocktail lounge/restaurant None 1-100 sq. ft. floor area
plus 1 per employee C-1, C-4
105. Motorcycle Sales and Service None 1-300 sq. ft. floor area C-1, C-4
106. Moving Service None 1-each employee plus
1-1000 sq. ft. floor area C-4, M-1
107. Musical Instruments and Supplies
None 1-300 sq. ft. floor area C-1, C-3, C-4
108. Newspaper Publishing, Printing and Distribution None 1-each employee plus
1-500 sq. ft. floor area C-1, C-4
109. Night Club (See Eating and Drinking Places [No. 54])
110. Nurseries - Plants None 1-400 sq. ft. floor area A-1, C-1, C-3, C-4
111. Nursery School None 1-1½ employee R-2*, R-3*, C-3*, C-4*
112. Nursing Home, Personal Care Home, Assisted Living None 1-3 beds A-1*, R-3*, C-1*, C-3*, C-4*
113. Office:
A. Professional other than medical
None 1-300 sq. ft. floor area C-1, C-3, C-4, A/O
B. Professional - Medical None 1-300 sq. ft. plus 1-each employee C-1, C-3, C-4, A/O
C. Business services None 1-300 sq. ft. floor area C-1, C-3, C-4, A/O
D. Governmental None 1-300 sq. ft. floor area C-1, C-3, C-4, A/O
E. All others None 1-300 sq. ft. floor area C-1, C-3, C-4, A/O
114. Office Equipment and Supply None 1-300 sq. ft. floor area C-1, C-3, C-4
115. Optical Sales and Service None 1-300 sq. ft. floor area C-1, C-3, C-4
116. Parks - Campgrounds, Camp Sites, Primitive Camps, Boat Launching Sites None 2-site CORD*
117. Photography Studios None 1-300 sq. ft. floor area C-1, C-3, C-4
118. Plumbing, Heating, and Electrical Sales and Service None 1-400 sq. ft. floor area C-1, C-4, M-1
119. Post Office None 1-300 sq. ft. floor area C-1, C-3, C-4, A/O
120. Printing None 1-300 sq. ft. floor area C-1, C-4, M-1, M-2
120.1. Produce Stand None None A-1, C-3, C-4
121. Public Buildings and Government Uses Not Specifically Listed Herein None To be determined All districts*
122. Radio and TV Broadcasting Studios None 1-400 sq. ft. floor area C-1, C-3, C-4
123. Radio and TV Transmitter and Tower None Article VI-A All districts* except R-1
124. Radio and TV Sales and Service None 1-300 sq. ft. floor area C-1, C-3, C-4
125. Railroad Freight Station None 1-500 sq. ft. floor area C-1, C-4, M-1, M-2
126. Railroad Passenger Station None 1-400 sq. ft. floor area A-1, C-1, C-4, M-1, M-2
127. Ranges:
A. Rifle, shotgun, archery See definitions
[article II] 1-employee plus 1-1½ each part CORD*
B. Pistol: See definitions
[article II]
1. Outside 1-500 sq. ft. lot area CORD*
2. Inside 1-500 sq. ft. lot area A-1*, C-1*, C-4*
128. Residential/Industrialized Building:
A. Single dwelling unit per structure None 2-each A-1, R-R, R-1, R-2, R-3, MHU-2
B. 2 dwelling units per structure None 2-each unit R-2, R-3
C. 3 or more dwelling units per
structure None 3-each 2 units R-3, A/O
D. Major residential subdivision
1. Where any one or more lots are less than 5 acres in size None 2-each unit R-1
2. Where all lots are greater than 5 acres in size None 2-each unit R-1, A-1
3. Where all lots are equal to or greater than 2 acres in size 2-each unit R-R, R-1, A-1
E. Live-Work Unit None 1-300 sq. ft. floor area A-1*, C-1*, C-3*, C-4*, CORD*
128.5 Resort See definitions (Article II) and Article IV Section 3.16 None Resort*
129. Restaurant (See Eating and Drinking Establishments [No. 54])
130. Roller Skating Rink None 1-300 sq. ft. floor area C-1, C-4
131. Schools:
A. Commercial or trade None 1-500 sq. ft. floor area All districts*
B. Public or semipublic:
1. Elementary None 1-1½ employees All districts*
2. Junior high None 1-1½ employees All districts*
3. High school None 1-1½ employees plus
1-500 sq. ft. floor area All districts*
131.5. Sexually Oriented Establishments See definitions (Article II) and see Ordinance to Regulate Sexually Oriented Establishments in Harris County, Georgia [Code Sec. 6-131 et seq.] 1-200 sq. ft. floor area plus, 1-1 employee M-2
132. Shoe Repair (See Apparel Service [No. 13])
133. Shopping Center None 1-300 sq. ft. floor area C-1, C-3, C-4
134. Signs - Off-Premises V 2 None Depends on usage
135. Signs - On-Premises V 2 None Depends on usage
135.1. Solar collection systems V 23 None Resort, except for residential uses located therein
135.5 Special Events Facility None 1-each 3 seats A-1*, C-1*, C-4*, CORD*
136. Specialty Goods Shops
(Antiques, Furs, Leather Goods) None 1-300 sq. ft. floor area C-1, C-3, C-4
137. Sporting Goods None 1-300 sq. ft. floor area C-1, C-3, C-4
138. Swimming Pools V 16 None All districts
139. Taxidermist None 1-300 sq. ft. floor area A-1*, C-4*, M-1*, M-2*
140. Television (See Radio [Nos. 122-124])
141. Tires - Sales and Service None 1-300 sq. ft. floor area C-1, C-4
142. Tires - Recapping None 1-500 sq. ft. floor area C-4, M-1
143. Truck Depot None 1-each 1½ employees C-4, M-1
144. Truck - Sales and Rental None 1-400 sq. ft. floor area C-1, C-4
145. Truck Service None 1-200 sq. ft. floor area C-1, C-4
146. University (See College
and University [No. 41])
147A. Utility, Private V 20 1-each employee All districts*
With no generating facility
With minor generating facility A-1*, C-4*, M-1*, M-2*
With major generating facility A-1*, C-4*, M-1*, M-2*
147B. Utility, Public V 20 1-each employee
With no generating facility All districts*
With minor generating facility A-1*, C-4*, M-1*, M-2*
With major generating facility C-4*, M-1*, M-2*
147C. Utility, Wholesale V 20 1-each employee
With no generating facility C-4*, M-1*,M-2*
With minor generating facility C-4*, M-1*, M-2*
With major generating facility C-4*, M-1*, M-2*
148. Veterinary Services (See Animal Hospital [No. 11])
149. Warehousing (not including Mini-Storage) None 1-1,000 sq. ft. floor area C-4, M-1
149.5 Weddings and Receptions,
Outdoor None 1-each 3 seats A-1*, C-1*, C-4*
150. A. Wholesale - With storage None 1-400 sq. ft. plus 1-employee C-4, M-1
B. Wholesale - Without storage None 1-400 sq. ft. plus 1-employee C-4, M-1
151. Winery None 1-300 sq. ft. floor space A-1
  (Ord. of 6-5-90, § 1; Ord. of 7-3-90, § 1; Ord. of 12-4-90; Ord. No. 193A, 6-1-93; Ord. No. 1-93C, 10-5-93; Ord. No. 1-94A, 1-4-94; Ord. No. 10-98, 8-4-98; Ord. No. 11-98, 8-4-98; Ord. No. 01-99, 7-6-99; Ord. No. 08-00, 9-5-2000; Ord. No. 09-00, 10-3-2000; Ord. No. 07-03, § 4, 8-19-2003; Ord. No. 07-04, §§ 1, 2, 10-5-2004; Ord. No. 10-07, § 2, 12-4-2007; Ord. No. 06-08, § 6, 9-2-2008; Ord. No. 04-09, § 1, 12-1-2009; Ord. No. 01-10, § 1, 4-6-2010; Ord. No. 08-10, § 1, 10-5-2010; Ord. No. 11-10, § 1B, 11-2-2010; Ord. No. 01-12, § 1B, 1-3-2012; Ord. No. 03-12, §§ 1B, C, 4-3-2012; Ord. No. 09-12, § 1, 10-2-2012; Ord. No. 10-12, § 1, 10-2-2012; Ord. No. 02-13 , § 1B, 10-1-2013; Ord. No. 01-14 , § 1, 1-7-2014; Ord. No. 02-14 , § 1, 4-1-2014; Ord. No. 03-14 , § 1E, 10-7-2014; Ord. No. 05-14 , § 1A, 11-4-2014; Ord. No. 06-14 , § 1B, 11-4-2014; Ord. No. 03-15 , § 1A, 11-3-2015; Ord. No. 01-17 , § 1A, 1-3-2017; Ord. No. 02-17 , § 1B, 8-1-2017; Ord. No. 01-19 ; § 1B, 1-15-2019; Ord. No. 03-20 , § 1A, 8-4-2020)
Sec. 3. - Zoning district regulations.
All lands, buildings and structures shall be developed in accordance with the zoning district regulations and use regulations applicable to the zoning district in which such land, buildings, and structures are located. Any development of land not in accordance with that permitted under these ordinances shall be prohibited.
3.1. A/O Apartment/Office
Residential
Commercial
EXPAND
A. Minimum Lot Requirements:
Area (See article VIII, section 3.e) Per R-3 requirements [§ 3.5] ½ acre with public water, 1 acre with private water
Width at Building Line Per R-3 requirements 75 feet
B. Maximum lot coverage 30% of the total lot area 50% of the total lot area
C. Minimum setback requirements:
Front 50 feet 20 feet
Side 10 feet None
Rear 25 feet 20 feet
Street Side 25 feet 20 feet
D. Maximum building height 65 feet or 5 stories 65 feet or 5 stories
  E.
Off-Street Parking:
As required in section 2 of this article and article V section 3.
F.
Other Requirements:
1.
Each lot shall abut on a public street for a distance of not less than 50 feet.
2.
More than 1 multi-dwelling-unit structure may be erected on the same lot provided there shall be a minimum distance of 20 feet between principal buildings.
3.
Reserved.
3.2. A-1 General Agricultural and Forestry District:
A.
Minimum lot requirements:
The district regulation for the use intended shall apply. (For example, an R-1 use shall use R-1 requirements.)
B.
Lot coverage:
The district regulation for the use intended shall apply.
C.
Minimum setback requirements:
The district regulation for the use intended shall apply.
D.
Maximum building height:
35 feet or 2½ stories.
E.
Off-street parking, loading and unloading:
As required in section 2 of this article and article V sections 3 and 4.
F.
Other requirements:
1.
Each lot shall abut on a public street for a distance of not less than 50 feet.
2.
The district regulation for the use intended shall apply.
3.3. R-R Rural Residential District:
A.
Minimum lot size requirements:
EXPAND
Area (See article VIII, section 3.e) 2 acres
Lot width at building line 90 feet
B. Maximum lot coverage:
25% of the total lot area
C. Minimum setback requirements:
Front 50 feet
Side 10 feet
Side for dwelling of more than 1 story 12 feet
Street side yard 50 feet
Rear yard 35 feet
D. Maximum building height:
35 feet or 2½ stories.
Accessory use buildings 15 feet in height.
E. Off-street parking:
As required in section 2 of this article and article V, section 3.
F. Other requirements:
1. Each lot shall abut on a public street for a distance of not less than 50 feet.
  3.4. R-1 Low-Density Residential District:
A.
Minimum Lot Size Requirements:
EXPAND
Area (see article VIII, section 3) 2 acres with public water, with exception of approved lots in subdivision plats, reviewed and approved by the Harris County Planning Commission as a variance and/or waiver as stipulated in article XVII, sections 1701, 1702, and 1703 of the Harris County Subdivision Regulations.
2 acres with private potable water.
Lot width at building line 90 feet
B. Maximum lot coverage:
25% of the total lot area.
C. Minimum setback requirements:
Front 50 feet
Side 10 feet
Side for dwelling of more than 1 story 12 feet
Street side yard 50 feet
Rear yard 35 feet
D. Maximum building height:
35 feet or 2½ stories.
Accessory use buildings 15 feet in height.
E. Off-street parking:
As required in section 2 of this article and article V section 3.
F. Other requirements:
1. Each lot shall abut on a public street for a distance of not less than 50 feet.
2. Permitted nonresidential uses shall have a minimum lot size of 30,000 square feet and shall be set back from all lot lines for a distance of not less than 50 feet.
  3.5. R-2 Medium-Density Residential District:
EXPAND
A. Minimum lot requirements:
Single-family R-1 requirements
Two-family:
Area per dwelling unit (See article VIII, section 3.e) ½ acre with public water

1 acre with private potable water source
Width at building line 100 feet
B. Maximum lot coverage:
Single-family R-1 requirements
Two-family 30% of the total lot area
C. Minimum setback requirements:
Single-family R-1 requirements
Two-family:
Front 50 feet
Side 10 feet
Side for dwellings of more than 1 story 12 feet
Street side yard 50 feet
Rear yard 35 feet
D. Maximum building height:
Single-family R-1 Requirements
Two-family: 35 feet or 2½ stories
Accessory use buildings 15 feet in height
E. Off-street parking:
As required in section 2 of this article and article V, section 3.
F. Other requirements:
1. Each lot shall abut on a public street for a distance of not less than 50 feet.
2. Permitted nonresidential use shall have a minimum lot size of 30,000 square feet and shall be set back from all lot lines for a distance of not less than 50 feet.
3. Whenever single-family residences are proposed to be built in an R-2 [district], they must meet the district regulations of the R-1 district.
  3.6. R-3 High-Density Residential District:
EXPAND
A. Minimum lot requirements:
Area - Single dwelling unit structure for multi- dwelling unit structures (See article VIII, section 3.e) R-1 requirements
4-acre minimum
Area per dwelling unit:
—Single dwelling unit structures R-1 requirements
—Multiunit dwelling structures up to 4 dwelling units 2,500 square feet per dwelling unit
—Each additional dwelling unit 1,600 square feet per dwelling unit
Lot width at building line:
Single-dwelling-unit structure R-1 requirements
Multi-dwelling-unit structures 100 feet
B. Maximum lot coverage:
Single Family R-1 requirements
R-3 30% of the total lot area
C. Minimum setback requirements:
Single-family R-1 requirements
R-3:
Front 50 feet
Side 10 feet
Street side yards 50 feet
Rear yards 35 feet
D. Maximum building height:
Single-family R-1 requirements
R-3 65 feet or 5 stories
E. Off-street parking:
As required in section 2 of this article and article V section 3.
F. Other requirements:
1. Each lot shall abut on a public street for a distance of not less than 50 feet.
2. Permitted nonresidential uses shall have a minimum lot size of 30,000 square feet and shall be set back from all lot lines for a distance of not less than 50 feet.
3. More than 1 multi-dwelling-unit structure may be erected on the same lot provided there shall be a minimum distance of 20 feet between principal buildings.
4. Whenever single-family residents [residences] or medium-density residences are proposed for an R-3 district, these residences must meet the district regulations of the R-1 or R-2 district respectively.
5. Must have an approved water supply and water system and an approved sewage disposal system.
  3.7. C-1 Central Business [Commercial] District:
EXPAND
A. Minimum lot requirements:
None.
B. Maximum lot coverage:
None.
C. Minimum setback requirements:
Front 20 feet
Side None
Street side yard 10 feet
Rear 20 feet
D. Maximum building height:
65 feet or 5 stories.
E. Off-street parking:
As required in Section 2 of this article and article V section 3.
F. Off-street loading and unloading:
As required in article V section 4.
G. Other requirements:
1. Rear yard requirement shall be waived if a lot abuts on an alley and if loading and unloading facilities are provided.
  3.8. C-3 Neighborhood Commercial District:
EXPAND
A. Minimum lot requirements:
Area 5,000 square feet
Width at building line 50 feet
B. Maximum lot coverage:
50% of the total lot area.
C. Minimum setback requirements:
Front 20 feet
Side None (see note [subsection G] 1)
Street side 25 feet
Rear 20 feet (See note [subsection G] 2)
D. Maximum building height:
35 feet or 2½ stories.
E. Off-street parking:
As required in section 2 of this article and article V section 3.
F. Off-street loading and unloading:
As required in article V section 4.
G. Other requirements:
1. A side yard setback of 25 feet shall be required where a side yard abuts a residential district, and 5 feet of the setback shall be planted with a buffer strip of shrubs and trees to provide an aesthetic appearance.
2. A rear yard setback of 20 feet shall be required when a rear yard abuts a residential district, and 5 feet of the setback shall be planted with a buffer strip of shrubs and trees to provide an aesthetic appearance.
  3.9 C-4 Highway Commercial District:
EXPAND
A. Minimum lot requirements:
Area 15,000 square feet
Width at building line 75 feet
B. Maximum lot coverage:
25% of the total lot area.
C. Minimum setback requirements:
Front 20 feet
Side None (see notes [subsection G] 1, 3)
Street side 20 feet
Rear 20 feet (see note [subsection G] 2)
D. Maximum building height:
65 feet or 5 stories.
E. Off-street parking:
As required in section 2 of this article and article V section 3.
F. Off-street loading and unloading:
As required in article V section 4.
G. Other requirements:
1. A side yard setback of 50 feet shall be required where a side yard abuts a residential district, and 5 feet of the setback shall be planted with a buffer strip of shrubs and trees to provide an aesthetic appearance.
2. A rear yard setback of 50 feet shall be required when a rear yard abuts a residential district, and 5 feet of the setback shall be planted with a buffer strip of shrubs and trees to provide an aesthetic appearance.
3. A 20-feet [foot] fire lane shall be required on one side of the major structure or single freestanding structure.
  3.10 M-1 General Manufacturing District:
EXPAND
A. Minimum lot requirements:
Area 1 acre
Width at building line 200 feet
B. Maximum lot coverage:
50% of the total lot area.
C. Minimum setback requirements:
Front 50 feet
Side 30 feet (see note [subsection G] 1)
Street side 50 feet
Rear 50 feet (see note [subsection G] 2)
D. Maximum building height:
65 feet or 5 stories.
E. Off-street parking:
As required in section 2 of this article and article V section 3.
F. Off-street loading and unloading:
As required in article V section 4.
G. Other requirements:
1. A side yard setback of 50 feet shall be required where a side yard abuts a residential district, and 5 feet of the setback shall be planted with a buffer strip of shrubs and trees to provide an aesthetic appearance.
2. When a rear yard abuts a residential district, 5 feet of the rear yard setback shall be planted with a buffer strip of shrubs and trees to provide an aesthetic appearance.
3. A green belt of 5 feet shall be required on 3 sides of the property unless waived by the Harris County Planning Commission.
  3.11(1). M-2 General [Heavy] Manufacturing District:
EXPAND
A. Minimum lot requirements:
Area 5 acres
Width at building line 500 feet
B. Maximum lot coverage:
50% of the total lot area.
C. Minimum setback requirements:
Front 100 feet
Side 100 feet (see note [subsection G] 1)
Rear 100 feet (see note [subsection G] 2)
D. Maximum building height:
65 feet or 5 stories.
E. Off-street parking:
As required in section 2 of this article and article V section 3.
F. Off-street loading and unloading:
As required in article V section 4.
G. Other requirements:
1. Where a side yard abuts a residential district, 5 feet of the setback shall be planted with a buffer strip of shrubs and trees to provide an aesthetic appearance.
2. Where a rear yard abuts a residential district, 5 feet of the setback shall be planted with a buffer strip of shrubs and trees to provide an aesthetic appearance.
3. A green belt of 5 feet shall be required on 3 sides of the property unless waived by the Harris County Planning Commission.
  3.11(2) Sexually Oriented Establishment District:
EXPAND
A. Minimum lot requirements:
Area 1 acre
Width at building line 100 feet
B. Maximum lot coverage:
25% of the total lot area.
C. Minimum setback requirements:
Front 100 feet
Side 25 feet
Rear 50 feet
D. Maximum building height:
35 feet or 2 stories.
E. Off-street parking:
As required in section 2 of this article and article V section 3.
F. Off-street loading and unloading:
As required in article V section 4.
G. Other requirements:
1. Location restrictions are outlined in the Ordinance to Regulate Sexually Oriented Establishments in Harris County, Georgia.
2. A green belt of 5 feet shall be required on 3 sides of the property unless waived by the Harris County Planning Commission.
  3.12. MHU-1 Manufactured Housing Unit District—Parks:
See article V, sections 14 and 15.
3.13. MHU-2 Manufactured Housing Unit District—Subdivisions:
See article IV, section 3.3 and article V, section 15.
3.14.  CORD Commercial Outdoor Recreation Development:
See definition [article II] and notes 1, 2, 3, 4 and 5 [below]:
1.
A site plan for the total acreage must be submitted to the Harris County Planning Commission for review and approval to ensure consistency with the overall plans for the appropriate development of the county. Final approval of the plan rests with the governing authority.
2.
Amendments to the site plan must be submitted to the Harris County Planning Commission for review and approval.
3.
When CORD abuts a public road, the minimum setback requirements shall be those of the most restrictive adjacent zoning district.
4.
A green belt of 5 feet shall be required on 3 sides of the property, unless waived by the Harris County Planning Commission.
5.
Off-street parking as required in [this] Article IV, Section 2.
3.15. PUD Planned Unit Developments:
See definitions (Article II) and notes below:
The intent of Planned Unit Development (PUD) zoning is to permit greater flexibility and, consequently, more creative and imaginative design for development of residential, commercial, or manufacturing areas than is generally possible under conventional zoning regulations. It is further intended to promote more economical and efficient use of land while providing a harmonious variety of housing choices, higher level of amenities, and preservation of natural qualities of open spaces. Within the PUD zones, a variety of housing types and land uses may be permitted in an orderly relationship to one another and to existing land uses, as well as with due regard to comprehensive planning within Harris County.
The regulations and development plan requirements for each PUD, listed below, are intended to evaluate each application on its own merit. It is recognized that some concepts will be more appropriate than others and the approval of an application in one location does not necessarily indicate the development will be applicable in other locations. It should be emphasized that those provisions are not to be used to circumvent the intent or use of conventional zoning standards. Certain development standards, including but not limited to height limitations, nonresidential building densities, interior setbacks, and total tract coverage, shall be approved conditionally by the board of commissioners.
No general, PUD Districts are to be created under this ordinance. The regulations for PUD Districts existing at the time of passage of this ordinance shall be the same as those of the PRD, PCD, and PMD Districts, whose primary uses are similar.
A.
PRD Planned Residential Development:
1.
Minimum development standards.
(a)
PRD must be a minimum of one hundred (100) acres.
(b)
All PRD lots shall have public water and public sewer. No septic tanks permitted. Developer shall be responsible for all costs to connect to public water and public sewer, regardless of political boundaries, to include all taps, fire plugs, and main, as well as the cost for any property or easement acquisition.
(c)
A minimum thirty (30) foot undisturbed vegetative buffer around the perimeter of the development outside of road rights of way.
(d)
Seventy-five (75) percent of the dwelling units shall be single family units.
(e)
Roads within residential and commercial development areas shall have curb and gutter and have a minimum right-of-way width of fifty-five (55) feet, twenty (20) foot paved surface, and two and one-half (2.5) foot curb and gutter. Utility easements shall be on either side or both sides of paved road surface and may fall within the right-of-way. In the absence of curb and gutter, roads shall meet minimum regulations as set forth in Chapter 4, Article IV, of the Code of Ordinances. No on street parking shall be permitted in residential or commercial development areas without adequate parking space provided between curbs (i.e. width of paved surface would increase from twenty (20) feet to thirty-four (34) feet).
(f)
Standards for commercial development shall adhere to regulations set forth in Appendix A (Zoning Ordinance), Article IV (Zoning District Objectives, Uses and Regulations), Section 3 (Zoning District Regulations).
(g)
Minimum residential lot size is ¼ acre. Residential lot building setbacks are 20 feet front, 30 feet back, 10 feet side, 20 feet for side streets.
(h)
Minimum of eight percent (8%) of the development area shall be designated for C-1 or C-3 commercial development. This area may be set in reserve, with natural vegetation, until such time that commercial development is feasible yet shall be easily accessibly by pedestrian traffic from residential areas and highway traffic from development access points.
(i)
All utilities shall be underground.
2.
Open space amenity requirements.
(a)
Applicability. PRD shall have a minimum of three (3) open space amenities, without duplication, as described in this section. At least two (2) of the amenities shall be located on land suitable for residential or commercial development.
(b)
General provisions for open space.
(1)
Land designated as open space on the approved development plan shall be maintained as open space and may not be subdivided or used for development.
(2)
Access for a public or private street shall be provided to all designated open space with a minimum of twenty (20) foot wide access to the open space areas. Lakes or ponds within the development used as open space shall provide adequate community access to at least fifty (50) percent of the shoreline and an undisturbed natural buffer of twenty (20) feet from the full pond mark and beyond the required access corridor. The required twenty (20) foot undisturbed natural buffer shall not be included in the calculation of Minimum Open Space as set forth in this article.
(3)
Open spaces shall be designated on plat as either public or private open space. Private open space is provided for benefit to owners and guests of owners within the development; public open space is provided for benefit to the public at large.
3.
Minimum open space dedication. Open space shall be dedicated in accordance with the table below. Percentages are based on total land area in the development. Roads, medians, buffers and road shoulders are not considered open space, but are included in the total development area for these calculations.
EXPAND
Total Development Area divided by Total Dwelling Units* Minimum Percent Open Space
2.0 acres and greater 20
1.0—2.0 acres 25
Less than 1.0 acre 35
  *Minimum density is calculated by dividing the total development area by the total number of dwelling units.
4.
Open space amenities. All required open space shall be classified in accordance with this Section.
(a)
Playground. Playground is for active recreation use and provides sunny and shaded play areas, shelter(s), benches, gymsets, swings or similar play equipment. Playgrounds may stand alone or be incorporated into other types of open space. Minimum size 25,000 square feet.
(b)
Square. Square is an area for passive recreational use. Squares shall be bounded by streets on a minimum of fifty percent (50%) of their perimeter, yet are encouraged to be completely bounded by streets or lanes. Squares are intended to be formal or semi-formal, be maintained with canopy trees and a landscaped understory or ground cover and have features that encourage use by residents. Minimum size 10,000 square feet.
(c)
Green. Green is an open space for active recreation use. Greens shall be completely open with grass cover to provide space for ballfields and other recreation activities that require relatively large open areas. Greens shall contain no structures and be bounded by streets on no more than one (1) side. Minimum size 150,000 square feet.
(d)
Park. Park is a open space for passive or active recreational use. Parks shall incorporate features that promote use such as shelters, tables, benches, and walking paths. Natural features such as streams can be incorporated into parks. Where feasible, parks should include a majority of the area covered with canopy trees with limited understory growth and/or landscaping to promote aesthetics and safety. Parks may include golf courses and water features. Minimum size 100,000 square feet.
(e)
Greenway. Greenway is large irregular open spaces designed to incorporate natural settings such as creeks, or other natural or manmade features. Greenways can be used for certain active recreational uses including, at a minimum trails for walking, jogging, and biking. Greenway shall connect points of interest such as other amenities, or areas of other civic use. Minimum width 75 feet.
(f)
Agricultural reserve. Agricultural Reserve is for active farming in the form of food or forage crop cultivation. Agricultural Reserves shall contain multiple forms of agricultural production including community gardens. Minimum area three (3) acres.
5.
Open space ownership and maintenance.
(a)
Open space may be owned by one or a combination of the following methods:
(1)
Fee simple ownership by a land or open space conservancy,
(2)
Common ownership by a Homeowners Association,
(3)
Common ownership by individual property owners within the subdivision,
(4)
Individual private ownership that maintains the open space in accordance with the purposes of this section; only in the case of Agricultural Reserve open space,
(5)
Deed restricted open space easements on individual private properties.
(b)
In all cases, development rights shall be restricted; oversight and enforcement will be provided by a land or open space conservancy.
(c)
The owner of open space will be responsible for the upkeep and maintenance of open space.
(d)
In the case of common ownership by a Homeowners Association (HOA), the restrictive covenants shall provide that in the event the HOA fails to maintain the open space according to the standards of this section, the Board of Commissioners may demand that the deficiency of maintenance be corrected, or upon reasonable notice, enter the open space to maintain it. The costs of such maintenance may be charged to the owner, HOA, or to the individual property owners that make up the HOA, and may include administrative costs and penalties. Such costs shall become a lien on all properties within the PRD.
(e)
The developer shall place in a conspicuous manner upon the Final Plat of the subdivision a notation concerning control of open space and shall record in the deed records of Harris County a permanent non-revocable easement and a declaration of covenants.
(f)
The developer will provide proof of formation, registration and incorporation of the HOA with the Secretary of State to the Director of Community Development prior to approval of a Final Plat.
(g)
HOA or similar legal entities that are responsible for the maintenance and control of open spaces shall be established by the developer who shall record in the deed records of Harris County in the office of the Clerk of Superior Court a declaration of covenants and restrictions that will govern the HOA or similar legal entity. A copy of such document shall be provided to the Director of Community Development and shall include, at a minimum, the following:
(1)
A provision for the establishment of the HOA or similar legal entity prior to approval of a Final Plat.
(2)
The HOA or similar legal entity has clear legal authority to maintain and exercise control over such common open space.
(3)
The HOA or similar legal entity has the power to assess and compel contributions from property owners within the development to cover the cost of maintenance and upkeep of open spaces. Assessments levied shall become a lien on the property, if unpaid.
(4)
Open space restrictions are perpetual.
(5)
The HOA or similar legal entity must have the ability to adjust the assessment to meet expenses.
(6)
The HOA or similar legal entity must be responsible for liability insurance, applicable state, county, and municipal property taxes and maintenance of open spaces and other facilities under its control.
(7)
It shall be expressly stated within the restrictive covenants or HOA operating documents that it will be the responsibility of the developer or successors or assigns to enforce such covenants and restrictions or to correct any deficiencies prior to transfer of control to the HOA Board of Directors.
(8)
It shall be the responsibility of the developer to identify an appropriate land or open space conservancy and to record in the deed records of Harris County in the office of the Clerk of Superior Court an arrangement for control or oversight of open space maintenance in a land trust or similar conservation-oriented non-profit organization that is bona fide and in perpetual existence and the conveyance instrument shall contain an appropriate provision for retransfer in the event the organization becomes unable to carry out its functions.
6.
Rezoning procedure.
(a)
A concept plan shall be submitted at the time of a rezoning request for all PRD. If the zoning of subject property is appropriate, only a concept plan is required.
(b)
An applicant shall file, together with the prescribed application and fee, a concept plan reflecting at a minimum, the following:
(1)
The boundaries of the entire tract or parcel.
(2)
Generalized location of existing and proposed external roads and adjacent land use and development.
(3)
Generalized location and description of various internal proposed land use components, including information as to proposed densities and intensities, proposed size and heights of the development.
(4)
Generalized location and description of proposed roads, proposed dedicated open spaces and perimeter buffer areas.
(5)
Proposed phasing of the development.
(6)
An illustrative plan providing for the physical layout of the entire development including all streets, lots, parcels, and open space types.
(7)
During the concept plan approval phase, the director of community development and developer will review plans to determine if minimum standards are met prior to the planning commission review.
7.
Application for preliminary plat and final plat approval. After the concept plan and rezoning request has been recommended for approval by the planning commission and rezoned by the board of commissioners; or, if the existing zoning is appropriate, preliminary and final plat procedures as provided in the Harris County Subdivision Regulations shall apply.
B.
PCD Planned Commercial Development: See definitions (Article II), district objectives (Article IV), and notes below:
Uses of property and buildings in this district are the same as those permitted in R-1, R-2, R-3, C-1, C-3, C-4, and CORD Districts. Residential densities in the PCD shall not exceed one (1) dwelling per net residential acreage.
C.
PMD Planned Manufacturing Development: See definitions (Article II), district objectives (Article IV), and notes below:
Uses of property and buildings in this District are the same as those permitted in R-1, R-2, R-3, C-1, C-3, C-4, M-1, M-2 and CORD Districts. Residential densities in the PMD shall not exceed one (1) dwelling per net residential acreage.
D.
Preliminary Development Plan: Any person, firm, company or other business entity applying for a zoning amendment to establish a planned unit development shall submit a preliminary development plan, along with the appropriate applications and fees, to the department of community development, consisting of:
1.
A site plan showing:
(a)
The direction of north, appropriate scale, and topography
(b)
The location of subject property in relation to the entire county
(c)
The uses of the properties adjacent to the site
(d)
The proposed uses and densities planned for the site
(e)
The access to, and traffic circulation within, the site
2.
A proposed development schedule for the project
3.
The project shall be located in an area for which public facilities and services are available and adequate for the uses proposed; provided, however, that the applicant may provide such facilities which are not presently available, and written assurances of such provision shall be included as part of the preliminary development plan which is submitted.
4.
The planning commission and board of commissioners shall review and act on the proposed zoning request and on any amendment to an approved preliminary development plan in accordance with the requirements of the Zoning Ordinance.
E.
Final development plan. Prior to the removal of natural vegetation, restructuring of the land, or construction of any improvements, an approved final development plan is required. a final development plan, which shall be consistent with the preliminary development plan, shall be submitted to the department of community development, and shall contain:
1.
A site plan showing:
(a)
The direction of north, appropriate scale, and topography in not greater than the intervals required under the Erosion and Sedimentation Act [of 1975] (O.C.G.A. § 12-7-1 et seq.) and listed in the "Manual for Erosion and Sediment Control in Georgia"
(b)
The proposed location and height of all structures
(c)
The use of all land and structures
(d)
The location and use of structures adjacent to the site
(e)
The location and dimensions of street, common driveways and walkways pertinent to the site
(f)
The location of service and loading areas and spaces
(g)
The location, size, number, and character of all exterior signs and lighting
(h)
The location, character, and extent of vegetative landscaping, retaining and screening walls, and other treatments for the protection of adjoining properties
(i)
The facilities for stormwater drainage and control
(j)
The location and character of all public improvements including utilities
2.
A copy of any deed restrictions to be recorded.
3.
A comprehensive impact analysis indicating the probable effect of the planned development on the county school system, emergency services (fire, police, EMS) and any probable impact on existing traffic patterns and capacities of adjacent roads/streets in the immediate area. Such analysis shall be prepared by a professional civil engineer, registered in the State of Georgia, or other individual whose profession lends itself to adequate analysis.
4.
A development schedule indicating the appropriate date when construction of the project, or stage thereof, can be expected to begin and be completed.
5.
Any other information necessary to establish compliance with this and other ordinances of the availability of adequate utility compliance.
6.
A detailed fire protection plan indicating the location and size of all existing and proposed fire mains, fire hydrants, and fire access lanes, as well as a description of all fire protection measures and devices for structures.
7.
The public improvements included in the final development plan shall be consistent with the Harris County Subdivision Regulations, and compliance with said regulations shall be reviewed as part of the final development process.
8.
The applicant shall provide for and establish an organization or other legal entity for the control and maintenance of any common property designated on the final development plan. Such entity shall be created by covenants running with the land, and such covenants shall be included as part of the final development plans and subject to approval by the board of commissioners.
9.
Structures and open spaces shall be arranged in such a way as best serves the needs of residents and commercial users of the planned development, and to minimize any adverse effects on the neighboring districts.
10.
Scenic assets and natural features, such as trees, streams, and topographic features, shall be protected and preserved to the greatest extent possible.
11.
At least fifty (50) percent of the area remaining after the development of buildings, parking, right-of-way, and utility and drainage easements, shall be developed to serve the uses of the development with, including but not limited to, landscaping, patios, walks, play areas, recreation, and other uses consistent with the character of the planned development.
12.
Building setbacks and buffers shall recognize and honor existing, adjacent land development. However, in no case shall a building be constructed closer than thirty-five (35) feet from the planning development district boundary. Setbacks from any adjoining roadway right-of-way shall be the same as those for the individual uses relative to the appropriate, individual zoning designation when the lot abuts a major/arterial or secondary/collector roadway. When a respective lot abuts a minor or local street then the setback may be reduced upon approval by the board of commissioners.
13.
Adequate screening and separation between different land uses shall be provided by buffering or other acceptable methods.
14.
Vehicular access to the planned development shall be from streets capable of supporting existing and projected traffic. No streets or access roads within the planned development shall connect to the public street system in such a way as to encourage the use of secondary/collector streets or minor/local streets as thoroughfares.
15.
The planned development shall include provisions for safe and convenient pedestrian access and circulation.
F.
Final development plan review:
1.
Upon receipt of an applicant's final development plan, the department of community development shall transmit a copy of the plan to the appropriate departments and agencies for review, report, and recommendation. Such officials and agencies shall each, within thirty (30) days from receiving the plan and documentation, furnish the department of community development a report pertinent to their respective jurisdictional concerns.
2.
Upon receipt of the various review comments, the department community development shall schedule the development plan for review at the next available scheduled meeting of the planning commission. The planning commission shall review the applicant's final development plan, and within thirty (30) days of their review shall also prepare and forward their written report and recommendation on the final development plan to the board of commissioners of approval or disapproval at the next available scheduled meeting of the Harris County Board of Commissioners.
G.
Amending a final development plan.
1.
The final development plan may be amended by the planning commission, provided the procedure specified in the previous section for review and approval is followed.
2.
Minor changes in the locating, siting, or character of buildings and structures as shown on the final development plan may be authorized by the building official. No change authorized by the building official under this section may increase the size of any building or structure by more than ten (10) percent, nor change the location of any building or structure by more than ten (10) feet in any direction; provided, notwithstanding anything in the foregoing, the building official may not permit change beyond the minimum or maximum requirements set forth in this ordinance. All other changes in the final development plan, including changes in the site plan and in the development schedule, must be made under the procedures that are applicable to the initial approval of a final development plan.
3.16. Resort. See definitions [Article II] and notes 1, 2 and 3 (below).
1.
A site plan for the total acreage must be submitted to the Harris County Planning Commission for review and approval to ensure consistency with the overall plans for the appropriate development of the county. Final approval of the plan rests with the governing authority.
2.
Amendments to the site plan must be submitted to the Harris County Planning Commission for review and approval.
3.
Where resort development abuts a public road, the minimum setback requirements shall be those of the most restrictive adjacent zoning district.
3.17. CUPD Community Unit Planned Development. See definitions (Article II) and notes below:
The intent of the Community Unit Planned Development is to encourage large, planned mixed use developments, which shall include both residential and commercial components, at locations within the County that can physically and environmentally accommodate development of an urban character and where sufficient transportation infrastructure, utility infrastructure, and governmental services are either planned or readily available to support the development. The mixed-use nature of the developments should encourage the integration of diverse land uses and promote sustainable economic growth and the creation of jobs.
A.
General requirements.
1.
Uses. Uses of property and buildings in this District are the same as those permitted in A-O, R-1, R-2, R-3, C-1, C-3, C-4, CORD and M-1 Districts. Individual buildings within a CUPD may be used for any or a combination of land uses permitted in this District except that M-1 uses shall not be combined with R-1, R-2, R-3 or A-O uses within a single building. Notwithstanding anything to the contrary contained herein, when there are multiple, primary uses contained within a building, then (a) the setback requirements that normally apply between different uses shall not apply to require any separation of the uses within a building; and (b) the parking requirements for the building shall be the total of the individual parking requirements for the different uses contained therein, provided, however, that the parking requirements, if any, for any commonly used areas within the building shall be no greater than the requirement for that use within the building requiring the least amount of parking.
2.
Minimum area. The minimum area permitted to be zoned for a CUPD is five hundred (500) acres.
3.
Green space. Each CUPD shall have a minimum of twenty (20) percent of the gross acres of the CUPD dedicated or set aside as green space. For the purposes of these district regulations, the term "green space" shall mean a public or privately-owned area within the property outside of any principal building, parking area or the landscaped grounds of any single-family residence, which is open to the sky and set aside and intended for the outdoor enjoyment of occupant(s) within or visitors to the property, including but not limited to natural areas subject to conservation easements or limited to open space pursuant to recorded covenants, and which may but is not required to include such pedestrian-oriented improvements as landscaping, sidewalks, walkway paths, pergolas, gazebos, bikeways, golf cart paths, exercise or play equipment, swimming pools, cabanas, ball fields, benches and golf courses and fifty (50) percent of any flood plain or other areas inappropriate for construction. Greenspace shall not include any areas included within the right-of-way of any roads, parkways, parking lots, or other paved surfaces. The gross acres set aside as greenspace shall not include or be made up of more than fifty (50) percent of water bodies, lakes, ponds, streams, or retention ponds.
4.
Accessory uses. A property in the CUPD district may contain any accessory structure or use customarily related to and subordinate to any principal use permitted herein.
5.
Density. Overall density is permitted to be greater in a CUPD district than in other districts to (a) create an environment less dependent on automobile travel and (b) support infrastructure costs associated with such developments and (c) consolidate development on less land to preserve more green space and open land.
6.
Requirement for sewer and water. Any lot other than single-family residential lots and any single-family residential lot smaller than two acres in size shall be served by either a public or private sanitary sewer system. Single-family residential lots two (2) acres or greater in size may be served by septic tanks, but no septic tank may serve more than one (1) single-family lot. All structures, whether residential or commercial, will be served by public water.
7.
Compliance with special CUPD district regulations. Uses within a CUPD shall be required to comply with the development regulations for that use contained elsewhere in this ordinance, (including but not limited to minimum lot size, density, minimum lot width, minimum setbacks, maximum coverage by principal buildings, maximum building height, minimum floor area of a dwelling unit, screening and buffers) except to the extent that there are different regulations for that aspect of the development of property within the CUPD set forth elsewhere in the Special CUPD District Regulations in which case the Special CUPD District Regulations shall apply, control over and supercede the development regulations set forth elsewhere in this ordinance.
8.
No requirements for common ownership. Property within a CUPD may be owned by multiple property owners and still retain its status as a CUPD provided that there is a property owners association or other organization which is responsible for the control and maintenance of those portions of the property that are available to be used by all owners of property within the CUPD.
9.
No requirement to abut a public street. Notwithstanding any provision to the contrary contained herein, no use within a CUPD shall be required to abut or be accessed by a public street provided that said use abuts or is accessed by a private street maintained by a mandatory membership property owners association or other organization that is responsible for the control and maintenance of the private street. With the exception of street width and curb and gutter requirements, all private streets must be built to comply with county standards. Private drives and private alleyways shall not be considered streets.
10.
Perimeter set-back requirement. Except as provided for below, the building setback line adjacent to the exterior boundary of the CUPD shall be one hundred (100) feet. Notwithstanding the above, where the exterior boundary line of the CUPD is adjacent to a state or federal highway, or major transportation corridor, arterial or collector street, the building setback line shall be fifty (50) feet.
11.
Perimeter buffer. There shall be a 50-foot natural buffer or planted buffer around the perimeter of the CUPD with the exception that there shall only be a requirements for a 20-foot natural buffer, planted buffer or planted landscape strip around the perimeter of any property zoned CUPD where the property within the CUPD, directly adjacent to said buffer or strip, is designated for non-residential or non-industrial uses and said property fronts on a state or federal highway, major transportation corridor, arterial or collector street. All buffers shall comply with any adjoining zoning uses.
12.
Interior buffer. Except as may be otherwise provided for herein, there shall be a 25-foot natural or planted buffer or planted landscape strip separating residential uses from industrial or commercial uses within the CUPD. Notwithstanding the above, this requirement for a buffer or landscape strip may be waived administratively by the board of commissioners or its designee in situations where residential use(s) abuts commercial use(s) and it is determined the commercial use(s) will serve the residential areas within the CUPD, will be physically configured in a way where they are accessible to pedestrians, will serve as a focal point for community interaction, and will not have an adverse impact on surrounding residential use(s).
13.
General buffer guidelines. All buffers may be disturbed to accommodate utility installation, grading, the installation and maintenance of a fence, berm, wall or walking trail, and other construction activities provided that it is re-planted upon the completion of the activity which disturbs the buffer. A fence or wall (no thicker in its widest part than forty-eight (48) inches) shall be permitted to be constructed along the outer exterior boundary of any buffer area. Walking trails are permitted within buffer areas. Dead, diseased and overgrown or overplanted trees, shrubs and other landscaping may be removed from all buffer areas to preserve the buffer in a neat, attractive and healthy condition fit on a long-term basis for its intended purpose as a buffer.
B.
Conceptual master plan. Any person, firm, company or other business entity applying for a zoning amendment to establish a CUPD shall along with the zoning application submit a conceptual master plan, along with the appropriate applications and fees, to the department of community development, consisting of:
1.
A site plan showing:
a.
The direction of north, appropriate scale and topography.
b.
The location of subject property in relation to the entire county.
c.
The uses of property adjacent to the site.
d.
The proposed uses and densities planned for the site.
e.
The access to the site and general traffic circulation therein.
f.
Buffers adjacent to the property not subject to the CUPD.
2.
The project shall be located in an area for which public facilities and services are available and adequate for the uses that are proposed; provided, however, that the applicant may provide such facilities which are not presently available, and written assurances of such provision shall be included as a part of the conceptual master plan which is submitted.
3.
A comprehensive impact analysis indicating the probable effect of the CUPD on the county school system, emergency services (fire, police, EMS) and any probable impact on existing traffic patterns and capacities of adjacent roads/streets in the immediate area. Such analysis shall be prepared by a professional civil engineer, registered in the State of Georgia, or other individual whose profession lends itself to adequate analysis.
4.
The planning commission and board of commissioners shall review and act on the proposed zoning request for a CUPD and the conceptual master plan in accordance with the zoning ordinance. Upon the approval by the board of commissioners of the uses and densities contained in a conceptual master plan, and any buffers within the CUPD adjacent to property not subject to the CUPD, said densities shall not be exceeded, new uses introduced or buffer requirements reduced unless an amendment to the CUPD has been approved by the planning commission and board of commissioners to: (a) permit additional uses at specified densities; (b) increase the densities of already permitted use; and/or as the case may be (c) reduce the buffers requirements for property within the CUPD that is adjacent to property not subject to the CUPD. Except for the above, applicant shall have the right to modify the conceptual master plan approved by the Board of Commissioners, including the right to transfer or shift permitted uses and densities to different locations within the CUPD so long as the overall level of development yields of the approved plan are not exceeded.
C.
Final development plan requirements. Prior to removal of natural vegetation, restructuring of land, or construction of any improvements, an approved final development plan is required. All final development plans for that portion of the CUPD where development activities will be occurring shall be submitted to the department of community development for review and approval by the zoning administrator, and shall contain:
1.
A site plan showing:
a.
The direction of north, appropriate scale, and topography in not greater than the intervals required under the Georgia Erosion and Sedimentation Act (O.C.G.A. § 12-7-1 et seq.) and listed in the "Manual for Erosion and Sediment Control in Georgia."
b.
The proposed location and height of all structures.
c.
The use of all land and structures.
d.
The location and use of structures adjacent to the site.
e.
The location and dimensions of streets, common driveways and walkways pertinent to the site.
f.
The location of service and loading areas and spaces.
g.
The location, size, number and character of all exterior signs and lighting.
h.
The location, character, and extent of existing vegetation landscaping, retaining and screening walls, and other treatment for the protection of adjoining properties.
i.
The facilities for stormwater drainage and control.
j.
The location and character of all public improvements including utilities.
k.
The densities for that portion of the CUPD, provided, however, that nothing herein shall require the densities of uses for any portion of the CUPD to be equal to or less than the approved densities for that use within the CUPD as a whole, provided, however, that the overall densities for that use within the CUPD have not been exceeded.
2.
An estimated development schedule indicating the approximate date when construction of the project, can be expected to begin and be completed and details on the proposed phasing plan by land use.
3.
Any other information necessary to establish compliance with this and other ordinances of the availability of adequate utility capacity.
4.
A detailed fire protection plan indicating the location and size of all existing and proposed fire mains, fire hydrants, and fire access lanes, as well as a description of all fire protection measures and devices for structures.
5.
The public improvements included in the final development plan shall be consistent with the Harris County Subdivision Regulations except where the same are in conflict with these CUPD District Regulations, in which event these district regulations shall control.
D.
Final development plan review.
1.
Upon receipt of an applicant's final development plan for that portion of the CUPD where development activities will be occurring, the department of community development shall within thirty (30) days from the submission of the final development plan review and approve the same if it is in compliance with the above-referenced requirements for a final development plan. If the final development plan is not in compliance with these requirements, the department of community development shall within the same time frame notify applicant in writing of the exact nature of the deficiencies. Upon said deficiencies being corrected by applicant, the department shall within ten (10) days of that date approve the final development plan. Upon the approval of the final development plan, the applicant may commence with the development activities on that portion of the CUPD for which a final development plan has been approved.
E.
Special CUPD district regulations for uses within a CUPD.
1. R-1 Low Density Residential
a. Minimum lot requirement:
Single-family 30,000 sq. feet
b. Width at building line 100 feet
c. Minimum setback requirements:
Front 25 feet
Side 10 feet
Side for dwelling of more than 1 story 10 feet
Street side yard 25 feet
Rear yard 25 feet
d. Maximum building height:
Single family 2.5 stories not to exceed 35 feet
Accessory use building 2 stories not to exceed 25 feet
e. Maximum lot coverage: 40% of total area
2. R-2 Medium Density Residential
a. Minimum lot requirements:
Single-family and two-family 15,000 sq. feet
Width at building line 75 feet
b. Maximum lot coverage:
Single-family 50% of total area
Two-family 50% of total area
c. Minimum setback requirements:
Single-family and two-family
Front 25 feet
Side 7.5 feet
Side for dwelling of more than 1 story 7.5 feet
Street side yard 15 feet
Rear yard 25 feet
d. Maximum building height:
Single-family and two-family 2.5 stories not to exceed 35 feet
Accessory use building 2 stories not to exceed 25
3. R-3 High-Density Residential
a. Minimum lot requirements:
Attached single-family or multi-family unit structure 2 acre minimum
Detached single-family dwelling unit 6,500 square feet
b. Area per attached single-family or multi-dwelling unit structure: 20 units/acre max
c. Lot width at building line:
Detached single-dwelling unit structure 35 feet
Attached single-family dwelling unit 22 feet per dwelling
Multi-dwelling unit structure 100 feet
d. Maximum building height 3 stories not to exceed 50 feet
e. Maximum lot coverage:
Detached single-family 50%
Attached single-family 100%
Multi-dwelling unit structure 50%
f. Minimum setback requirements:
Detached single-family
Front 10 feet
Side 0/5 feet (0 feet on side yard where house on immediately adjacent lot does not abut property line and 5 feet on side yard where house on immediately adjacent lot abuts property line).
Street side yards 15 feet
Rear yards 15 feet
Attached single family
Front 0 feet
Side 0 feet
Street side yards 0 feet
Rear yards 0 feet
  F.
Right to rely on approved densities. Since property zoned to a CUPD will likely be developed over a period of years due to the large minimum size requirements for a CUPD, the permitted development densities within a CUPD shall not be reduced and the development standards applicable to the CUPD shall not be made more restrictive from what is in effect for the property at the time it was zoned to a CUPD use.
G.
Amendment to final development plan. Amendments to the final development plan shall be submitted, reviewed and approved in the same manner as the initial final development plan. An owner of property within a CUPD may only have the right to seek to amend that portion of the CUPD owned by said owner.
(Ord. of 12-4-90; Ord. No. 1-94A, 1-4-94; Ord. No. 11-98, 8-4-98; Ord. No. 02-01, 3-6-2001; Ord. No. 06-03, 6-17-2003; Ord. No. 07-03, § 5, 8-19-2003; Ord. No. 05-04, § 5, 8-17-2004; Ord. No. 01-19 , § 1C, 1-15-2019; Ord. No. 03-19 , § 1, 6-18-2019)
ARTICLE V. - SUPPLEMENTARY DISTRICT REGULATIONS

Sec. 1. - Corner visibility.
On a corner lot in any zoning district except the C-l Central Commercial District, nothing shall be erected, placed, planted, or allowed to grow in such a manner as materially to impede vision between a height of two and a half (2½) and ten (10) feet above the centerline grades of the intersecting streets in the area bounded by the street lines of such corner lots and a line joining points along said street lines fifty (50) feet from the point of the intersection.
Sec. 2. - Signs.
2.1. General provisions.
This article shall hereafter be known and cited as the Harris County Sign Ordinance.
2.2. Findings.
2.2.1. The county finds that signs are a proper use of private property, are a means of personal free expression and a necessary component of a commercial environment. As such, signs are entitled to the protection of the law. In the absence of regulation, however, the number of signs tends to proliferate, with property owners desiring an increasing number and size of signs, leading to cluttered and aesthetically blighted thoroughfares. In addition, the competition among competing sign owners for visibility of their signs contributes to safety hazards for both vehicles and pedestrians and undermines the sign owners' original purpose of presenting a clear message of its idea or identification of its premises.
2.2.2. The county finds that the regulation of the size, height, number and spacing of signs is necessary to protect the public safety, to assure compatibility of signs with surrounding land uses, to enhance the business and economy of the county, to protect the public investment in the streets and highways, to maintain the tranquil environment of residential areas, to promote industry and commerce, to eliminate visual clutter and blight, to provide an aesthetically appealing environment, and to provide for the orderly and reasonable display of advertising for the benefit of all the county's citizens.
2.2.3. The county finds that there is a substantial difference between signs erected by public authority and signs erected by private citizens or businesses. Signs erected by public authority are virtually all erected for the purpose of maintaining the public safety either through direct control of traffic or through provision of such type signage as street signs which enable the traveling public to know where they are located and to find where they are going. As such, with the exception of signs identifying government buildings, virtually all government signs are erected purely for public safety purposes. Moreover, their use in the public right-of-way is necessary to ensure their visibility to the motoring public. The county commission finds that public utility signs are frequently of the same nature as those signs erected by governmental entities in that they provide necessary information to safeguard the public from downed power lines and from street excavations. Even where signs serve a propriety purpose, such as identifying markings on utility poles, those signs are marked primarily for the purpose of benefitting the public generally through identification of locations where there may be temporary losses of power.
2.2.4. The county finds that some signage has a single targeted function and that identification of such signage by description is impossible without referring to its function. For instance, address numerals are used for the sole purpose of location addresses, which is of benefit to persons looking for those addresses and is essential to public safety personnel responding to emergencies. Subdivision signs at the entrances to subdivisions favor a similar purpose in enabling both the traveling public and emergency personnel to quickly locate subdivision entrances for the purpose of either visitation or responding to emergency calls. While such signage is referenced based upon the function it serves within the context of this ordinance, the bulk of the provisions of this chapter are unrelated to the content of the speech provided and allow maximum expressive potential to sign owners.
2.3. Intent and purpose.
2.3.1. The intent of this section is to provide for the regulation of signs, which are erected on and visible from the road system of Harris County, Georgia.
2.3.2. The purposes of this section are:
a.
To protect the rights of individuals and businesses to convey their messages through signs;
b.
To encourage the effective use of signs as a means of communication;
c.
To promote economic development;
d.
To improve traffic and pedestrian safety as it may be affected by distracting signs;
e.
To regulate signs by zoning district, size, height, location on a lot, number, methods of construction, maintenance, and illumination;
f.
To prevent the destruction of the natural beauty and environment of the county and to maintain and enhance the aesthetic environment of the county;
g.
To protect the public health, safety and general welfare;
h.
To restrict the continued existence of abandoned or nonconforming signs unless in compliance with the terms of this section and to eliminate, over time, all nonconforming signs; and
i.
To ensure the fair and consistent enforcement of sign standards.
2.4. Definitions. Words and phrases used in this section shall have the meanings set forth in this section. Words and phrases not defined in this section, but defined in the zoning ordinance of Harris County, shall be given the meanings set forth in such ordinance. All other words and phrases shall be given their common, ordinary meaning, unless the context clearly requires otherwise.
"A" frame sign: A detached moveable sign which has two display areas, hinged at the top and an interior angle not to exceed 60 degrees. It shall be located in front of and in connection with a nonresidential location.
Abandoned sign: Any sign that contains or exhibits broken panels, visible rust, visible rot, damaged support structures, or missing letters or which is otherwise dilapidated, unsightly, or unkempt, and for which no person accepts maintenance responsibility.
Animated sign: Any sign, or part of a sign, that uses any movement or change of lighting or color to depict action or create a special effect or scene. Changeable copy signs meeting the standards of this section are excluded from the definition of animated signs.
Audible sign: Any sign which emits a sound, which is audible, or emits a signal, which can be converted into audible sounds, whether by radio or other means.
Banner: A sign other than a flag with or without characters, letters, illustrations or ornamentation applied to cloth, paper, fabric, vinyl or canvas that is intended to be hung either with a frame or without a frame. Neither flags nor canopy signs are considered banners. See also feather banners.
Beacon: Any light with one or more beams directed into the atmosphere or directed at one or more points not on the same lot as the light source; also, any light with one or more beams that rotate or move.
Billboard: A freestanding sign that exceeds the sign area limitations established by this section.
Building sign: Any sign attached to any part of a building in contrast to a freestanding sign. The following are included in this definition:
(1)
Awning/canopy sign: Any sign that is a part of, or attached to, an awning, canopy or other fabric, plastic or structural protective cover over a door, entrance, window, or outdoor service area.
(2)
Flat roof sign: A sign located on the roof of a building if there is no space between the sign and the roof.
(3)
Marquee sign: Any sign attached flat against the marquee or permanent sidewalk canopy of a building and not extending above the top of the marquee or canopy.
(4)
Mansard: An inclined decorative roof-like projection that is attached to an exterior building facade.
(5)
Parapet: The extension of a building facade above the line of the structural roof.
(6)
Projecting sign: A sign that is suspended or projected from the wall, eave, or soffit of the building.
(7)
Under-canopy sign: A display attached to the underside of a marquee or canopy.
(8)
Wall sign: A sign mounted parallel to and on the exterior surface of a building.
(9)
Window sign: A sign that is placed inside a window or upon the window panes or glass, either inside or outside the building, and is visible from the exterior of the structure.
Changeable copy sign: A sign which allows words, characters, letters, figures, design characteristics, symbols, logos, numbers or illustrations to be changed without altering the sign. The following are included in this definition:
(1)
Automatic changeable copy sign: A sign on which copy is changed automatically on a lamp bank or through mechanical means, e.g. electrical or electronic units. Such changes may only occur one time every 60 seconds and do not otherwise scroll, blink, roll, rotate or otherwise change.
(2)
Manual changeable copy sign: A sign on which copy is changed manually in the field, e.g. reader boards with changeable letters.
Code enforcement officer: The term code enforcement officer shall mean and shall be either the director of community development or the Harris County Code Enforcement Officer.
Dilapidated signs: A sign that is in such condition as to create a hazard, nuisance or to be unsafe or fail to comply with any provision of the building or electrical codes of the county.
Double-faced sign: A sign structure with two sign faces that are parallel (back-to-back) or that form an angle to one another.
Feather banner: A banner mounted vertically on a pole and designed in such a manner to flutter as a result of wind or a fan
Festoons: Strings of ribbons, tinsel, small flags, pennants, streamers, pinwheels, or other devices or long narrow strips of fabric, plastic, or other pliable material designed to move in the wind.
Flag: Any fabric or bunting containing colors, patterns, or symbols used as a symbol of a government or other entity or organization.
Flashing sign: A sign, the illumination of which is not kept constant in intensity at all times when in use and which exhibits marked changes in lighting effects.
Freestanding sign: A sign permanently attached to the ground and that is wholly independent of any building or other structure. The term "freestanding sign" includes but is not limited to the following:
(1)
Ground sign: A freestanding sign in which the entire bottom of the sign face or structure is in contact with the ground, providing a solid and continuous background for the sign face from the ground to the top of the sign, also referred to as a "monument sign".
(2)
Pole sign: A sign that is mounted on one or two freestanding poles, column(s), or similar support.
Illuminated sign, external: A sign that is partially or completely illuminated at any time by an artificial light source that directly or indirectly illuminates the face of the sign from outside the sign structure. Such source cannot be a device that changes color, flashes or alternates.
Illuminated sign, internal: A sign that is illuminated by an artificial light source from within the sign structure over any or all of its sign face. Such source cannot be a device that changes color, flashes, or alternates.
Incidental sign: A small sign, emblem, or decal no larger than one square foot. Such signs are normally located on doors, windows, and gas pumps, and are generally not readily visible or legible from public rights-of-way.
Inflatable signs: A sign that is intended to be expanded by air or other gas for its proper display or support.
Lot: A parcel of land that is of sufficient size to meet minimum zoning requirements for lot area, coverage, and use, and that can provide such yards and other open spaces as required by the zoning standards and recorded in the deed records of Harris County as a single parcel.
Marquee: Any permanent roof-like structure or canopy of rigid materials supported by and extending from the façade of a building.
Monument sign: See freestanding sign.
Moving sign: A sign which revolves, rotates, swings, undulates, or otherwise attracts attention through movement of parts.
Multi-tenant: One or more buildings, located on a single premises or development, containing two or more separate and distinct individual establishments, which occupy separate portions of the building(s) and which are physically separated from each other by walls.
Non-conforming sign: Any sign that is legal at the time of erection that does not conform to the requirements of this amendment.
Obscene signs: Any sign meeting the standards of obscenity as defined by O.C.G.A § 16-12-80(b).
Off-premises sign: Any outdoor sign, notice or advertising devise used to advertise, announce, or promote a business, professional, commercial or industrial enterprise or undertaking which is located and which is operated at a site other than the premises upon which the sign is located.
Permanent sign: Any sign which, when installed, is intended for permanent use. A permanent freestanding sign shall be of a type and construction as not to be easily or readily removed from the lot on which it has been erected. Permanent sign excludes signs that were manufactured or designed to be movable or temporary but were later installed in such a manner as to be immovable.
Permit: A sign permit reviewed, approved, and issued by the department of community development.
Permittee: The person or entity to whom a permit has been issued.
Portable sign: A sign which is not permanently affixed to the ground or to a structure, including but not limited to signs on trailers or signs mounted or painted on vehicles which are parked in such a manner as to serve the purpose of a sign. Such sign shall not exceed 32 square feet if double faced or 16 square feet in sign area per side.
Principal building: The building in which the principal use of the lot is conducted. Nonresidential lots with multiple principal uses may have multiple principal buildings, but storage buildings, garages, and other structures with clearly accessory uses shall not be considered principal buildings.
Principal freestanding sign: The main, most prominent or largest freestanding sign on a property.
Principal use: The primary purpose for which land or a building is used.
Project entrance sign: On properties housing multiple buildings and/or uses, a freestanding sign located at the entrance of the development.
Public/institutional use: A non-profit or quasi-public use, such as a religious institution, library, public or private school, hospital or government-owned or government-operated structure or land used for public purposes.
Public sign: A sign erected or caused to be erected by a governmental entity.
Roof sign: A sign mounted on, and supported by, the main portion of a building or above the uppermost edge of a parapet wall or a building, and which is wholly or partially supported by such building. Signs mounted on mansard facades, pent eaves and architectural projections, such as canopies or marquees, shall not be considered to be roof signs but are considered building signs.
Sign: Any structure, display, or device that is used to advertise, identify, direct, or attract attention to a business, institution, organization, person, idea, product, service, event, or location by any means, including words, letters, figures, design characteristics, symbols, logos, fixtures, colors, movement or illumination.
Sign face: That portion of the surface of a sign structure where words, letters, figures, symbols, logos, fixtures, colors, or other design elements are or may be located in order to convey the message, idea, or intent for which the sign has been erected or placed. The sign face may be composed of two or more modules on the same surface that are separated or surrounded by open space or by portions of a sign structure not intended to contain any advertising message or idea and are purely structural or decorative in nature.
Sign module: Each portion or unit of a sign face that is clearly separate from other such units by virtue of the expression of a complete thought, message, logo, or idea.
Sign structure: A structure exclusively or primarily intended to support a sign face and which, in combination with the sign face, comprises a sign as defined in this chapter. A sign structure comprises all elements of a freestanding sign, including the sign face, background, or decorative elements related to the presentation or support of the sign's message, and the structural supports. A structure that incidentally supports a sign face but whose primary purpose is other than providing such support, such as, but not limited to, an exterior wall of a building, a roof, a structural retaining wall, or a decorative freestanding fence or wall at a project entrance is not considered a sign structure.
Standard yard sign: A temporary non-illuminated sign with an area not greater than four and one-half square feet with a sign face for short-term use, containing no reflective elements, flags or projections.
Temporary pole sign: A temporary non-illuminated sign with an area not greater than four and one-half square feet with a sign face for short-term use, containing no reflective elements, flags or projections, mounted on a pole on a nonresidential lot.
Temporary window sign: A temporary non-illuminated sign with an area not greater than three square feet, containing no reflective elements, flags or projections and mounted in the window of a nonresidential structure.
Unlawful (illegal) sign: Any sign erected without a permit when a permit for the sign was otherwise required by this section or previously adopted ordinance or code; a permitted sign which has not been properly erected in accordance with the permit application and approved sign permit; or an otherwise lawful and permitted sign that has become hazardous or a nuisance to the public due to poor maintenance, dilapidation or abandonment.
Visible: Capable of being read from public right-of-way or adjacent property, without visual aid by a person with normal vision.
2.5. Compliance required. Signs placed within the unincorporated area of the county shall be erected in conformity with the standards of this section.
2.6. Signs that are regulated. The regulations and requirements of this section apply to all signs that are or are intended to be viewed from a public right-of-way or adjacent property, or that are intended to be viewed from outdoor areas or public property.
2.7. Exemptions. The following are exempt from permitting requirements imposed by this article, but must meet applicable regulations of this chapter:
2.7.1. A-frame signs. One such sign shall be allowed at each nonresidential space located on the ground floor of a building and which has direct front door access to and from a public sidewalk/access. Such signs shall not exceed eight square feet if double-faced or four square feet in sign area per side and shall not be illuminated. Such signs shall be located so as not to obstruct the pedestrian way.
2.7.2. Address numerals. Address numerals not to exceed four inches in height in single family residential districts and ten inches in all other districts.
2.7.3. Antique or collectible signs.
2.7.4. Flags. Two flags are permitted without a permit. Additional flags beyond the allowance of two shall require permitting and shall be considered in the property's overall sign allowance.
2.7.5. Holiday decorations. Holiday decorations and displays erected on a seasonal basis that are not intended to be permanent in nature and displayed for no longer than 45 days.
2.7.6. Home occupation signs. Approved home occupation uses shall be allowed one identification sign not to exceed four square feet if double-faced in area or no more than two square feet per side. If said sign is a free standing sign, not attached to the building, such sign shall not exceed four feet in height.
2.7.7. Incidental signs as defined in this chapter.
2.7.8. Temporary pole signs. In addition to any other permitted sign in this section, temporary pole signs up to four square feet in sign area, with an aggregate sign area not exceeding ten square feet per lot for all such signs; such signs shall be a maximum height of four feet with a minimum setback of ten feet from all property lines.
2.7.9. Legibility. Any sign that is not legible from a distance of more than three feet beyond the lot line of the lot or parcel on which the sign is located.
2.7.10. Official signs. Signs placed by or at the direction of a governmental body, governmental agency or public authority, such as, but not limited to, traffic signs, signals, or regulatory devices or warnings; official emblems, public notices, or official instruments; signs providing directions to specific facilities or locations; signs of historical interest; signs designating special events or areas of architectural or historic significance or gateways; or other similar governmental signs or devices. Such signs are authorized within all rights-of- way or other properties controlled by such governmental body, agency, or authority; and at such other locations as a governmental body, governmental agency or public authority may direct.
2.7.11. Residential zones. Signs on residentially zoned or residentially used property as long as they meet the requirements of this section.
2.7.12. Window displays. Window displays of goods available on a site are not considered to be signs and are exempt from these sign regulations.
2.7.13. Window signs. No more than 50 percent or 35 square feet, whichever is less, of the total available glass area shall be used to display permanent and temporary window signs. No window signs are allowed above the first floor unless the building is a multi-tenant office or commercial structure wherein tenants have primary direct access from their space to the outside.
2.8. Prohibited signs. The following types of signs are prohibited:
2.8.1. Abandoned signs.
2.8.2. Animated and flashing signs.
2.8.3. Attached and painted sign. Signs that are painted on or attached to trees, fence posts, utility poles, or rocks or other natural features.
2.8.4. Audible or smoke emitting signs. A sign that emits or utilizes in any manner any sound capable of being detected on any traveled road or highway by a person with normal hearing, or a sign that emits smoke, vapor or odors, is not allowed.
2.8.5. Beacons.
2.8.6. Billboards.
2.8.7. Dilapidated signs.
2.8.8. Festoons. Unless used as a temporary sign as outlined in section 6-90 (Temporary Signs), such are prohibited.
2.8.9. Flashing signs. Signs containing reflective elements that sparkle in the sunlight or that contain luminous paint that glows in the dark.
2.8.10. Illegal activity. Signs that advertise an activity illegal under county, state or federal law.
2.8.11. Inflatable signs.
2.8.12. Interstate highways. No sign shall be erected that abuts or is visible from Interstate Highways 85 and 185 right-of-way in the county.
2.8.13. Lights, strands of. Unless used as temporary signage subject to the time restrictions of section 6-90.
2.8.14. Obscene signs.
2.8.15. Obstructions. No sign shall obstruct any fire escape, window, door, or opening usable for fire prevention or suppression, or prevent free passage from one part of a roof to any other part thereof. No sign shall extend above a parapet wall, be affixed to a fire escape, or interfere with any opening required for ventilation.
2.8.16. Portable signs. Unless used as a temporary sign as outlined in section 6-90 (Temporary Signs).
2.8.17. Roof signs.
2.8.18. Unlawful/illegal signs.
2.8.19. Warning or traffic devices, imitation. Any sign that displays intermittent lights resembling the flashing lights customarily used in traffic signals or in police, fire, ambulance, or rescue vehicles, and any sign that uses the words "stop", "danger," or other message or content in a manner that might mislead or confuse a driver. No red, green, or yellow illuminated sign shall be permitted within 300 feet of any traffic light.
2.8.20. Within street or highway right-of-way. No sign, whether temporary or permanent, except signs conforming to the Manual of Uniform Traffic Control Devices, and authorized by such manual, shall be placed in any right-of-way.
2.9. Physical characteristics of permanent signs.
2.9.1. Permanent signs. Permanent signs shall conform to the physical standards of this section.
2.9.2. Design, material, and maintenance.
a.
All signs shall be designed and constructed in accordance with the applicable provisions of the International Building Code and the National Electrical Code;
b.
The area on private property around the sign on which it is erected shall be properly maintained clear of brush, trees, and other obstacles so as to make signs readily visible.
c.
All burned-out bulbs or damaged panels shall be replaced.
d.
All sign copy shall be maintained securely to the face and all missing copy shall be replaced;
e.
All signs shall be maintained in good structural condition at all times so that the public and traffic safety are not compromised, and
f.
It shall be the responsibility of the sign owner to maintain and ensure compliance with the provisions of this chapter.
2.9.3. Minimum sign setback. Except as otherwise specifically provided for, the minimum set back for any freestanding sign shall be ten feet from the front right-of-way lines and shall be ten feet from the side and rear lot lines. However, in no case will a sign be allowed to obscure vision at a street or driveway intersection, or railway crossing. Vision clearance shall be measured at intersections by a line formed by the connection of two lines measured from the intersection and stretching away from the intersection along the right-of-way for a distance of 20 feet. No sign shall be erected within the triangle formed by the end points of such measurements and their connecting line.
2.9.4. Illumination. No sign shall be illuminated by lights that flash, move, change in intensity, or turn on intermittently more than once a day, unless it is a permitted automatic changeable copy sign as allowed in this ordinance. To prevent glare visible from a public street or adjoining property, the beam of any light shall be directed so as not to be visible beyond the sign at which it is directed and the light source shall not be visible from any point on an adjacent property of the public right-of-way.
a.
Signs in residential zoning districts shall not be illuminated.
b.
Temporary signs shall not be illuminated.
2.10. Off-premises sign.
2.10.1. Off-premises signs are permitted in C-4, M-1 and M-2 zoning districts.
2.10.2. There shall be a minimum distance of 800 feet between all off-premises signs, whether conforming or non-conforming.
2.11. Temporary signs.
2.11.1. Temporary signage for uses other than single family and two-family residential use is limited to temporary pole signs, temporary window signs, banners, feather banners, A-frame signs and portable signs. A commercial entity may utilize temporary pole signs, banners and feather banners for premises under that entity's control for four periods of ten days each per year, or alternatively one period of 30 days per year. A- frame signs and temporary window signs may be utilized at all times in accordance with these regulations.
2.11.2. Standard yard signs.
a.
Standard yard signs are permitted on all properties utilized for single family and two-family residential use.
b.
Standard yard signs are temporary signs designed for short term use and contain no reflective elements, flags or projections, and otherwise meet all standards of this section.
c.
All standard yard signs shall be located entirely on private property. Any such sign erected on public right-of-way is subject to immediate removal without prior notice.
d.
The sign face of a standard yard sign shall not exceed four and one-half square feet. The aggregate sign area of all standard yard signs on a lot shall not exceed 16 square feet.
e.
No standard yard sign shall be illuminated or include changeable copy.
f.
For single and two-family residential properties, standard yard signs shall stand at a height of not greater than three feet and shall be mounted in the yard on a wooden stake or metal frame with a thickness or diameter not greater than one and one-half inches. Alternatively, not more than one standard yard sign on such residential properties may be suspended from a wooden mailbox post where both the supporting structure and the cross are inserted at a 90 degree angle into the supporting structure are composed of wood measuring four inches by four inches and erected to an overall height not exceeding five feet.
2.11.3. Temporary window signs. Temporary window signs are permitted for properties with a primary use other than single and two-family residential. Temporary window signs, each of which measure no more than four square feet in sign area may be mounted in the window of a nonresidential use, provided no more than 35 percent of the visibility through the window is obscured by all such signs. Alternatively, one temporary window sign may be mounted on the wall adjacent to the primary entrance of each business. There is no durational limit on such signs.
2.11.4. Banners.
a.
Banners are allowed in all zoning districts of the county other than single and two-family residential districts. Every nonresidential entity located in the county shall be permitted to display one banner in accordance with the time limits specified in section 2.11.1; provided that no banner shall be displayed at the same time as a feather banner, and the time periods for which banners and feathers are permitted are cumulative.
b.
The maximum size of any such banner shall be no more than 50 square feet.
c.
Each banner displayed shall be made from cloth, paper, fabric, vinyl or canvas with a minimum weight of eight ounces. Each banner shall have metal grommets placed 15 inches on centers and in the corners for attachment. All edges of each banner shall be hemmed and reinforced by adding reinforcing material, such as rope or nylon tape, to the edges.
d.
Each banner shall be mounted on a building or similar solid structure. No banner displayed pursuant to this section shall be mounted on poles, wires or other such devices.
f.
Each time a banner is displayed pursuant to the provisions of this section, there shall be charged a permit fee as established from time to time by the county commission. Application for permit and payment of the permit fee shall be made to the department of community development in the same manner and shall be handled as other sign permits, provided the department may utilize a truncated application form for banner permits that includes only the information necessary to determine eligibility for the permit. No banner shall be displayed until the permit has been issued by the county and the permit fee has been paid.
g.
Within 48 hours after notification of a violation of this section, prohibited banners shall be removed.
2.11.5. Feather banners.
a.
Feather banners are permitted for nonresidential entities, limited to one feather banner for each 40 feet of linear street frontage, not to exceed three such signs for any lot. Feather banners shall be permitted for the time period provided by section 2.11.1; provided no feather banner shall be displayed at the same time as a banner, and the time periods for which feather banners and banners are permitted are cumulative.
b.
The maximum size of each feather banner shall be no more than 27 square feet.
c.
Each feather banner displayed shall be made from cloth or fabric. Use of plastic is prohibited. All edges of each feather banner shall be hemmed and reinforced.
d.
Each time a feather banner is displayed pursuant to the provisions of this section, there shall be charged a permit fee as established from time to time by the county commission. Application for permit and payment of the permit fee shall be mode to the office of the department of community development in the same manner and shall be handled as other sign permits, provided the department may utilize a truncated application form for feather banner permits that includes only the information necessary to determine eligibility for the permit. No feather banner shall be displayed until the permit has been issued by the county and the permit fee has been paid.
e.
Within 48 hours after notification of a violation of this section, prohibited feather flags shall be removed.
2.11.6. A-frame signs.
a.
One A-frame sign is permitted per nonresidential entity in all nonresidential districts, provided the entity occupies ground floor space with a direct access to public right-of-way.
b.
A-frame signs are limited to 42 inches in height, 30 inches in width, with overall sign face area note to exceed six square feet.
c.
A-frame signs constitute a form of signage that is granted by a permit but which is utilized only during active hours for which the commercial entity is open. A-frame signs shall be located entirely on private property.
d.
A-frame signs shall not be illuminated.
e.
Plastic board or unfinished plywood are prohibited materials for sidewalk signs.
f.
A-frame signs shall be located on or adjacent to sidewalks in such manner that they do not encroach upon required four foot accessible pedestrian paths.
g.
The base of an A-frame sign shall not be located more than 18 inches from the facade of the entity responsible for the sign.
h.
A-frame signs may only be displayed during business hours and shall be removed when the entity is closed.
i.
A-frame signs shall be composed of stained or painted wood with a sign face composed of wood or slate (chalk) board or dry erase board.
2.11.7. Area, height and setback. In a nonresidential zoning district temporary pole signs no larger than six square feet in sign face area per sign face and five feet in height may be permitted as a temporary sign. No temporary pole sign shall be located in the public right-of-way, and in any event, shall be located no less than ten feet from the back of the curb or from the edge of the pavement on streets with no curbing. The square footage of said pole sign, when combined with other signs on the same lot, shall not exceed the total square footage authorized for signs in the land use category. Said pole sign shall not contain lights or be lit by external means.
2.11.8. Duration of temporary signs. Each temporary permit will be valid for a period not to exceed 30 consecutive days. No 30-day permit may be issued within 60 days after the expiration of any other 30-day period. Individual businesses, offices or other nonresidential uses within a building or complex housing multiple uses shall coordinate with the owner of the property as to use of the lot's overall allowance as provided in this section.
2.11.9. Number of temporary signs. One permit for a combination of the listed types of temporary signs may be issued if all the temporary signs are for a concurrent time period. The permit holder shall be responsible for the prompt and complete removal of such signs upon the expiration of the permit.
2.11.10. Location of temporary signs.
a.
No temporary sign shall be located in the public right-of-way, and in any event will be no less than ten feet from the back of the curb or from the edge of the pavement on streets with no curbing.
b.
Temporary signs are not allowed to be placed within or on the railroad right-of-way or private street easement.
c.
A temporary sign shall not be affixed to any tree, utility pole, or official traffic sign or structure.
d.
A temporary sign shall be erected and maintained only with the permission of the owner of the property upon which the sign is located.
2.11.11. Construction and lighting standards of temporary signs.
a.
Non-permanent but water-resistant construction materials may be used, such as, but not limited to, poster board, foam core board, or illustration board.
b.
The words, letters, figures, symbols, logos, fixtures, colors, or other design elements that convey the sign's message shall be permanently applied to the sign's face. Automatic changeable copy signs are prohibited as temporary signs.
c.
Temporary signs shall not be illuminated.
2.11.12. Portable signs and streamers. Portable signs and streamers are allowed as temporary signs only on a property zoned commercial or industrial subject to all provisions that pertain to temporary signs and the following additional restrictions.
a.
Portable signs. One portable sign per developed lot or business is allowed under the following conditions and requirements:
(1)
Prior to the erection or placement of these signs or devices, all required fees and taxes shall be paid by the owner of the sign.
(2)
The maximum size allowance for these devises and signs shall not exceed 32 square feet. The square footage of said portable sign, when combined with other signs on the same lot, shall not exceed the total square footage authorized for signs in the land use category. Said sign shall not have flashing lights.
(3)
No portable sign shall be placed on a lot that is used for residential purposes.
(4)
The sign must be placed on the site in such a manner as to be at ten feet from the right-of-way and to not be an obstruction for traffic or visibility.
(5)
To prevent wind damage to the sign or other property, the sign must be securely anchored to the site.
(6)
All electrical connections to the sign must be in compliance with the electrical code as adopted by the county, and must be inspected prior to use.
(7)
The maximum number of portable sign permits to be issued to a single location or site at any given time shall be one sign, not to exceed the time allowance of section 2.11.1.
(8)
A site or location for the purpose of this section shall be defined as land under common ownership.
b.
Streamers.
(1)
Streamers shall be counted towards the total square foot sign area permitted for the lot on which they are placed, and when added to the area of all other signs on said lot shall not exceed the total sign area permitted for the lot.
(2)
No part of any streamer shall be located in, on or within ten feet of a public right-of-way.
2.12. Sign types permitted in specific zoning districts. The following schedules of sign uses indicates signs permitted in each zoning district. All other signs not mentioned are prohibited. Signs listed in section 6-87 (Exemptions) are permitted in all districts.
EXPAND
USE &/OR ZONING PRINCIPAL FREESTANDING - ONE USE ON PROPERTY PRINCIPAL FREESTANDING - MULTIPLE TENANT USES PROJECT ENTRANCE SIGN PERMITTED BUILDING SIGNAGE
Max # Max Sign Structure Area Max
Height Illumination Max # Max Sign Structure Area Max
Height Illumination Max # Max Sign Structure Area Max
Height Illumination Max # Max Sign Structure Area of Wall on which Sign is Placed Max
Height Illumination Max Sign Area Additional Under Canopy Sign Max Sign Structure Area of Signs on Free-Standing Canopy
A/O Apartment n/a n/a n/a n/a n/a n/a n/a n/a 2 per single entrance 32 SF 8' external n/a n/a n/a n/a n/a n/a
1 per entrance 64 SF dbl faced 8' external
A/O Office 1 per single use 16 SF
dbl faced 8' none 1 per multiple tenant 32 SF
dbl faced 8' none 2 per single entrance 32 SF 8' external 1 per tenant up to 25% per tenant for total max of 100 SF n/a none n/a n/a
1 per entrance 64 SF
dbl faced 8' external
A-1 1 per lot 32 SF
dbl faced 8' external n/a n/a n/a n/a 2 per single entrance 32 SF 8' external none n/a n/a n/a n/a n/a
1 per entrance 64 SF
dbl faced 8' external
Public/Institutional 1 per lot 32 SF
dbl faced 8' external or internal 1 per lot 64 SF
dbl faced 8' external or internal 2 per single entrance 32 SF 8' external 1 per tenant up to 25% per tenant for total max of 100 SF n/a none 1 per tenant; up to 4 SF dbl faced 10% of area, max 9 SF
1 per entrance 64 SF
dbl faced 8' external
RR, R-1, R-2, R-3, MHU-1, MHU-2 1 per lot 6 SF
dbl faced 3' none n/a n/a n/a n/a 2 per single entrance 32 SF 8' external 1 2 SF/side or 4 SF dbl faced n/a none n/a n/a
1 per entrance 64 SF
dbl faced 8' external
C-1 1 per lot 25 SF
dbl faced 8' external n/a n/a n/a n/a n/a n/a n/a n/a 1 per facade 2 SF per LF n/a none n/a n/a
C-3 1 per lot 32 SF
dbl faced 8' external or internal 1 per lot 64 SF
total 8' external or internal 2 per single entrance 32 SF Monument sign only 8' external 1 per tenant up to 25% per tenant for total max of 100 SF n/a none 1 per tenant; up to 4 SF dbl faced n/a
1 per entrance 64 SF Monument sign only dbl faced 8' external
C-4 1 per lot 64 SF
dbl faced 8' external or internal 1 per lot 100 SF total 20' external or internal 2 per single entrance 32 SF Monument sign only 8' external 1 per tenant up to 25% per tenant for total max of 100 SF n/a none 1 per tenant up to 4 SF dbl faced 10% of area, max 9 SF
1 per entrance 64 SF Monument sign only dbl faced 8' external
M-1, M-2 1 per lot 64 SF
dbl faced 8' external or internal 1 per lot 100 SF total 20' external or internal 2 per single entrance 32 SF Monument sign only 8' external 1 per tenant up to 25% per tenant for total max of 100 SF n/a none 1 per tenant up to 4 SF dbl faced 10% of area, max 9 SF
1 per entrance 64 SF Monument sign only dbl faced 8' external
CORD 1 per lot 64 SF
dbl faced 8' external or internal 1 per lot 100 SF total 20' external or internal 2 per single entrance 32 SF Monument sign only 8' external 1 per tenant up to 25% per tenant for total max of 100 SF n/a none 1 per tenant up to 4 SF dbl faced 10% of area, max 9 SF
1 per entrance 64 SF Monument sign only dbl faced 8' external
PRD, PCD, PMD, CUPD Regulations based on use of parcel Regulations based on use of parcel 2 per single entrance 32 SF Monument sign only 8' external Regulations based on use of parcel
1 per entrance 64 SF Monument sign only dbl faced 8' external
Resort Regulations based on use of parcel Regulations based on use of parcel 2 per single entrance 32 SF Monument sign only 8' external Regulations based on use of parcel
1 per entrance 64 SF Monument sign only dbl faced 8' external
  2.13. Nonconforming signs.
2.13.1. Signs lawfully erected under prior ordinances which do not conform to provisions of this section, shall be deemed to be legal nonconforming signs and may remain, except as otherwise specifically qualified in this section. Such signs shall not be enlarged, extended, structurally reconstructed, replaced or altered in any manner; except a sign face may be changed so long as the new sign face does not increase either in height or sign area or utilize a different technology. This provision shall not have the effect of excusing any violation of any other section. Nor shall this provision have the effect of permitting the continued existence of any unsafe sign or any sign that is not in a good state of repair.
2.13.2. Nothing in this section shall be deemed to prevent keeping in good repair a nonconforming sign. No repairs other than minor maintenance and upkeep of nonconforming signs shall be permitted except to make the sign comply with the requirements of this section. A nonconforming sign which has been declared by the Code Enforcement Officer of Harris County to be unsafe because of its physical condition shall not be repaired, rebuilt or restored unless such repair or restoration will result in a sign which conforms to all applicable provisions of this section.
2.13.3. When a nonconforming sign is destroyed or toppled by an act of God, forces of nature or any other destructive action or occurrence beyond the control of the sign owner, said sign may be replaced to its original nonconforming condition.
2.14. Sign permits.
2.14.1. Permit required. A permit shall be required for the erection, alteration or reconstruction of any sign unless otherwise noted in section 6-87 (Exemptions) and shall be issued by the community development department in accordance with the regulations contained in this chapter.
2.14.2. Purpose. The purpose of this section is to provide a timely and standardized mechanism for reviewing applications for sign permits to ensure signs within the county comply with the objective standards of this chapter, including, but not limited to, the height and size provisions.
2.14.3. Authority. The code enforcement officer is authorized to review and approve or disapprove an application for a sign permit pursuant to the procedures of this section and the standards of this chapter.
2.14.4. Applicability. No sign, except those specified in section 6-87 (Exemptions) of this chapter, shall be erected, placed, reconstructed or structurally altered without the sign owner having first obtained a sign permit from the code enforcement officer, pursuant to the procedures in this section and the standards of this chapter.
2.14.5. Permitted signs by ordinance. Pursuant to section 6-87 (Exemptions) of this chapter, a general permit has been granted for those signs listed therein, and no application for a sign permit is required so long as all applicable standards of this chapter are met.
2.14.6. Procedure. The following procedure shall govern the application for, and the issuance of all sign permits under this chapter.
2.14.7. Initial submission and review of application. Application for a sign permit shall be made on the form provided by the code enforcement officer and shall be accompanied by the information and documents listed on the form and the fee as required by the county. An application will only be deemed as completed when all required information and accompanying documents are received. The following information will be required at a minimum.
a.
The type and purpose of the sign as defined in this chapter.
b.
The value of the sign.
c.
A survey to scale showing the street address of the property upon which the subject sign is to be located, the proposed location of subject sign on the property, the distance of the proposed sign from the property's boundaries, and all existing structures or buildings on the property.
d.
The square foot area per sign face and the aggregate square foot area if there is more than one sign face.
e.
The name(s) and address(es) of the owner(s) of the real property upon which the sign is to be located.
f.
Written consent of the owner of the property, or his/her agent, granting permission for the placement, maintenance, size and height of the sign to be placed on the property.
g.
For building signs: a set of building elevations or photographs of the building facade shall be supplied.
h.
The name, address, telephone number, and business license number of the sign contractor unless the sign is handwritten or hand-painted by a non-professional sign contractor.
i.
Scaled elevation of the size and height of the proposed sign from ground level and adjacent street level.
2.14.8. Action by code enforcement officer. The code enforcement officer has five working days to determine whether the application is complete. If the application is determined to be incomplete, the applicant will be notified by phone, e-mail, or in writing. Within 15 working days after the application is determined complete, the code enforcement officer shall review the application in accordance with this section and determine whether the application complies with the standards in this chapter.
2.14.9. Approval. If the code enforcement officer finds that the completed application complies with the standards of this chapter, the code enforcement officer shall approve a sign permit. Complete sign applications for which no action has been taken after 20 working days of submission shall be deemed approved.
2.14.10. Fails to comply. If the code enforcement officer determines the application fails to comply with the standards of this chapter, the applicant shall be provided a written notification with explanation of denial. If the applicant resubmits the application within 60 days of the written notification of denial, the resubmitted application does not require payment of an additional fee.
2.14.11. Resubmittal. A revised application shall be resubmitted to the code enforcement officer and reviewed by the officer within 15 working days after its resubmittal. The code enforcement officer shall approve or disapprove the application, based on the criteria in this chapter.
2.14.12. Criteria. A sign permit shall be approved upon a finding that the proposed signage meets the criteria of this section.
2.14.13. Expiration. A sign permit shall become null and void if the sign for which the permit was issued has not been installed and completed within six months after the date of issuance; provided, however, that when an applicant can demonstrate that a commercial entity was engaged to construct the permitted sign, but the fabrication has not yet been completed, one 90 day extension may be granted by the code enforcement officer. No refunds will be made for fees paid for permits that expired due to failure to erect a permitted sign. If later an individual desires to erect a sign at the same location, a new application and applicable fee must be submitted in accordance with the fee schedule applicable at such time.
2.14.14. Amendments. A sign permit may be amended, extended, or modified only in accordance with the procedures established for its original approval.
2.14.15. Maintenance of permit. The owner or lessee of a lot containing signs requiring a permit under this chapter shall, at all times, maintain a sign permit for such property.
2.14.16. Assignment of sign permits. A current or valid sign permit shall be freely assigned or transferred to a successor as owner or lessee of the property or holder of a business license for the same premises, subject only to filing such application as the county may require and paying any applicable fees. The assignment shall be accomplished by filing and shall not require approval unless changes are made to the height, location or material of the sign. If such changes are proposed, a new sign permit must be received and the procedures for a new sign as outlined in this section must be adhered to.
2.14.17. Appeals. The following procedures shall govern the appeal of any decision to deny an application for a sign permit under this chapter.
a.
Any applicant aggrieved or affected by the denial of an application for a sign permit may appeal the determination to the board of zoning adjustments by filing written notice of appeal with the community development director within ten business days of the decision. The appeal shall be scheduled and heard in conformance with the adopted hearing schedule of the board, provided all appeals shall be heard no later than 60 days following filing of the notice of appeal.
b.
At the hearing, the appellant shall be allowed to present evidence and testimony and may call witnesses on his behalf. The official from whose decision appeal was taken may likewise present evidence and testimony and may call witness on behalf of the decision. Appeal hearings shall be tape recorded; an appellant may provide a certified court reporter to take down the proceedings at the sole expense of the appellant. In considering the appeal, the board of zoning adjustments shall be bound by the standards specified in this section and shall render its decision no later than 30 days from date of hearing.
c.
Any party aggrieved or affected by the decision of the board of zoning adjustments may appeal to the appropriate court.
2.15. Enforcement.
2.15.1. Enforcement officer. The provisions of this chapter shall be administered and enforced by the code enforcement officer as defined herein.
2.15.2. Notice. The code enforcement officer shall give the permittee not less than ten nor more than 30 days written notice of violation based on the practical considerations of completing measures to comport with the standards of this chapter, to correct deficiencies or to remove a sign which is in violation of this chapter. If the permittee refuses to correct the deficiencies or remove the sign, the code enforcement officer will have the sign removed at the expense of the permittee.
2.15.3. Penalties. If the violation is not eliminated within the required time period, the sign permit shall be revoked, and a citation shall be issued, which shall be returnable and heard in the Magistrate Court of Harris County, and if convicted of violating this section or any portion thereof shall be guilty of an offense and shall be punished by a fine not to exceed $500.00 per offense. Each day in which the violation continues to occur shall constitute a separate violation.
2.15.4. Public nuisance. Any violation of this chapter is hereby declared to be a public nuisance.
2.15.5. Appeal. Any violator may appeal the determination of the code enforcement officer to the board of zoning adjustments with the procedures outlined in section 2.14.17 (Appeals). Any appeal shall act as a supersedes of the county's enforcement of this chapter, except to the extent that violation of this chapter is deemed to present a safety hazard to the public.
2.15.6. Legal proceedings. The code enforcement officer, upon a finding that any provision of this chapter is being violated, is authorized to institute legal proceedings to enjoin violations of this chapter. The violator shall be liable for court costs and reasonable attorney fees incurred by the county.
(Ord. No. 1-96A, 2-20-96; Ord. No. 01-19 , § 1D, 1-15-2019)
Sec. 3. - Off-street parking.
3.1.  Requirements for Off-Street Parking:
In all zoning districts there shall be provided at the time any permitted use is established, enlarged or increased in capacity, off-street parking spaces for automobiles in accordance with the schedule set forth in article IV, section 2, and as set forth herein.
1.
For the purpose of applying the off-street parking requirements set forth in article IV, section 2, "floor area" is defined as the gross floor area used or intended to be used by the public for the purchase of goods and services and shall include areas occupied by fixtures and equipment for display or sale of merchandise. "Lot area" is defined as the area or portion of a lot actually used for display or sale of goods and services to the public.
2.
Joint off-street parking facilities for two (2) or more uses will be established so long as the required number of off-street parking spaces shall not be equal to less than the sum of the requirements for the individual uses computed separately.
3.
Fractional off-street parking space requirements shall be counted as a whole space if the fraction is greater than one-half.
4.
Off-street parking area shall not be considered as loading or unloading areas. No off-street parking facility in existence at the effective date of these regulations shall be reduced to an amount less than required for a similar use.
3.2. Establishment of Off-Street Parking:
Wherever off-street parking is required for the development of a lot, it shall be established and maintained as follows:
1.
Each off-street parking space shall consist of a designated and defined area of at least ten (10) feet in width and twenty (20) feet in length exclusive of access drives and aisles.
2.
Except for lots devoted to single and two (2) dwelling units per structure uses, all areas established for off-street parking shall be designed and be of such size that no vehicle is required to back into a public street to obtain egress.
3.
All areas devoted to off-street parking shall have clearly defined access drives of ingress and egress not to exceed twenty-five (25) feet, to include curbs.
4.
All areas devoted to permanent off-street parking shall be of a hard surface or in such manner that no dust will result from continuous use. Each off-street parking space shall be clearly marked or otherwise defined. Gravel or plant mix is also acceptable.
5.
No off-street parking space shall extend beyond any lot line; and where an off-street parking space abuts a residential lot line, a setback line of five (5) feet shall be established.
6.
All areas devoted to ingress or egress in a commercial, industrial or multifamily zone shall be denoted by curbing.
Sec. 4. - Off-street loading and unloading.
In all zoning districts where permitted uses require the receipt or distribution of materials or merchandise by truck or similar vehicle shall provide [sic] off-street loading and unloading space [shall be provided]. Such requirements will apply to new structures or that portion of existing structures which are altered or expanded after the effective date of the regulations.
4.1.  Requirements for Off-Street Loading and Unloading Space:
1.
One (1) space shall be required for the first twenty thousand (20,000) square feet of floor area plus one (1) additional space for each twenty thousand (20,000) square feet of floor area up to one hundred thousand (100,000) square feet and one (1) space for each additional forty thousand (40,000) square feet thereafter.
2.
The minimum size of an off-street loading and unloading space shall be ten (10) feet by fifty (50) feet exclusive of driveway and maneuvering space.
3.
No street or alley shall be considered as part of the off-street loading or unloading area.
4.
All areas for loading and unloading shall be so designed and located to permit traffic to exit facing a street or alley.
5.
Off-street loading and unloading spaces may occupy all or any part of any required yard area.
Sec. 5. - Access to streets.
The following regulations shall govern ingress and egress to all lots in all zoning districts:
1.
A point of access, i.e., driveway, curb cut, entrance or exit point, shall not exceed twenty-five (25) feet in width on lots for residential uses and thirty-five (35) feet in width on lots for uses other than residential provided the point of access does not exceed fifty (50) percent of the frontage on the street.
2.
The number of access points for each lot shall be governed by the width of lot frontage as follows:
EXPAND
Less than 75 feet 1 access point
75—200 feet 2 access points
More than 200 feet 2 access points plus 1 additional access point each additional 100 feet frontage in excess of 200
  3.
No two (2) access points on the same lot frontage shall be closer than twenty-five (25) feet from their nearest edges.
4.
No access point shall be located closer to any street intersection than twenty (20) feet measured from its nearest edge to the curb radius tangent point or property line radius point.
5.
On lots other than residential, no access point shall be located closer to any side lot line than twenty (20) feet. Where access to a state or federal highway is controlled by regulations other than those stated herein, those rules and regulations shall prevail, whichever is more restrictive.
6.
Prior to any curb cut or driveway cut, a permit must be obtained from the public works department. If a driveway pipe is requested, the applicant must bear the cost of the pipe and its installment.
Sec. 6. - Accessory buildings.
An accessory building may be erected either attached or unattached to a principal building on the same lot. An attached accessory building shall be considered a part of the principal building and shall comply with the requirements of the district in which it is located.
An unattached accessory building shall be located in the rear yard of the principal building, shall not occupy more than thirty (30) percent of the area of the rear yard, shall not be located closer than fifteen (15) feet to the principal building on an adjoining lot, shall not be located closer than ten (10) feet to any rear or interior side lot line, and shall not project into any required front or street side yard. On corner lots, the accessory building may not be located closer to the road right-of-way than the minimum setback requirements. Except that unattached accessory buildings eight hundred (800) square feet or less which are used for the private, noncommercial and non-dwelling use of the resident may be built in the rear yard or side yard in A-1, R-1 and R-2 districts and shall not require a building permit.
(Ord. No. 02-99, 7-6-99)
Sec. 7. - Drainage.
1.
Storm Sewers: Storm sewers and drains shall be provided in each subdivision. They shall be designed to carry not less than the stormwater from a rainfall expected to occur once in ten (10) years, with a runoff of ninety (90) percent for pavements and buildings and a variable runoff factor depending upon topography or ground for other purposes. Storm drain pipes shall consist of reinforced concrete, bituminous coated corrugated meal or bitumized fiber pipe. The storm sewer system shall be designed and sized to accommodate and provide for future extensions. The entire storm sewer system shall be approved by the county engineer or duly appointed agent of the county board of commissioners prior its installations.
2.
Drainage Swales and Ditches: All drainage swales and ditches must be a minimum of six (6) feet wide with a six-to-one (6:1) slope on each side. They must be constructed of sod, asphalt or concrete sufficient to prevent erosion.
3.
[Driveways, Headwalls, Masonry Mailboxes:] All driveways shall slope away from streets or roads at a rate of one-quarter (¼) inch to one-half (½) inch per foot for a distance of ten (10) feet. No headwalls or masonry mailboxes [may be] erected on right-of-way.
Sec. 8. - Storage of certain vehicles and equipment.
(1)
The storage of certain vehicles and equipment (defined as one (1) automobile without current license plate, camping or travel trailers, recreational vehicles, and boats and boat motors) is prohibited in residential districts for time periods in excess of seventy-two (72) hours unless such vehicles and equipment are stored in a carport, enclosed building, or behind a portion of a building which screens it from the street.
(2)
The storage or parking of any truck with three (3) or more axles in a residential district is prohibited.
(3)
It shall be unlawful for any person to park or leave unattended any vehicle upon the right-of-way of any public road on the county highway system for more than 96 hours.
(Ord. No. 6-96, 11-5-96; Ord. No. 03-08, § 1, 8-5-2008)
Sec. 9. - Airports.
Proposed public airports shall be so located and of sufficient size to meet Federal Aviation Agency requirements and not constitute a nuisance to surrounding uses.
Sec. 10. - Automobile wrecking, junkyards, body shops and motor vehicle garage.
10.1. Location of Automobile and Junkyards:
No operation shall be located nearer than three hundred (300) feet from any established residential district.
10.2. Screening:
All outdoor storage of salvage and wrecking operations shall be conducted within an enclosed solid opaque fence or solid opaque wall not less than six feet in height nor more than ten feet in height. All of the above businesses shall ensure that the storage of vehicles are [is] screened from public view from any public road. Additional screening shall be required to screen view of stored items. Any fence or wall erected for screening purposes shall be properly painted or otherwise maintained in good condition.
10.3. Storage of Materials or Vehicles:
The storage of salvaged materials, junk materials or vehicles shall not exceed six feet in height.
Vehicles awaiting repair shall not be stored outside of the business establishment or fenced area for periods greater than 48 hours.
Sec. 11. - Cemetery (commercial).
11.1. Location:
All cemeteries hereafter established shall have direct access to major thoroughfares with ingress and egress so designed to minimize traffic congestion.
11.2. Size:
Any new cemetery shall be located on a site containing not less than ten acres. Structure setback shall conform to the district regulations in which the site is located. All burial lots shall be set back not less than 25 feet from any lot line.
Sec. 12. - Customary home occupations.
12.1. Residential home occupation. The conduct of business in residential units may be permitted under the provisions of this section in Agricultural/Forestry, Residential and Manufactured Housing Unit - Subdivisions. It is the intent of this section to ensure the compatibility of home occupations with their uses permitted in the applicable districts; to maintain and preserve the character of the districts in which the home occupation exists; and to prevent excessive noise, traffic and other potential nuisances from commercial uses being conducted in these districts. Residential home occupations, where permitted, must meet the following requirements:
1.
A home occupation is subordinate to the use of a dwelling unit for residential purposes.
2.
A home occupation must be operated by the owner of the dwelling unit or with written approval of the owner if applicant resides in a rented dwelling unit.
3.
No more than one person who is not a resident of the dwelling unit may be employed on premises in the conduct of a home occupation.
4.
Any off-premises employees of the home occupation shall not congregate on the premises for any purpose concerning the home occupation.
5.
The home occupation shall be located and conducted in such a manner that the average neighbor under normal circumstances would not be aware of its existence. There shall be no goods, products or commodities received or stored on the premises intended for resale or delivery to customers except by U.S. Mail or parcel service.
6.
No traffic shall be generated by such home occupations in greater volumes than would normally be expected in the residential neighborhood, and any need for parking generated by the conduct of such home occupation shall be met off-street and other than in a front yard of the dwelling unit.
7.
On-premises, retail sales are limited to products or goods produced or fabricated on the premises as a result of the home occupation.
8.
There shall be no external indication of the home occupation or variation from the residential character of the principal use, except as required by local, state and/or federal law.
9.
No on-street parking of business related vehicles (either marked or commercially equipped) shall be permitted at any home. Business vehicles having a gross vehicle weight of 10,000 pounds or less are permitted to park overnight on the premises. The number of business related vehicles is limited to one.
10.
Residential home occupation is limited to the use of a practicing professional or to the office use of the operator of a business whose primary work location is off premises, and may involve very limited visits or access by clients or customers. [Examples may include, but are not limited to: architectural, engineering, land surveying services; art studio; consulting services; data processing; direct sale product distribution; graphic services; dressmaking, sewing, tailoring, contract sewing; electronic assembly; financial planning or investment services; flower arranging; house cleaning service; insurance sales or broker; interior design; real estate sales or broker; tutoring, etc.] In addition, "cottage food operators" as defined and licensed by the Georgia Department of Agriculture is permitted.
11.
No manufacturing process (the production of goods industrially, making something into a finished product on a large industrial scale, or producing something with machines in an industrial manner) shall be permitted; in addition, no automotive services shall be permitted.
12.2. Rural home occupation. Rural home occupations in Agricultural/Forestry and Rural Residential districts may be permitted under the provision of this section. It is the intent of this section to ensure the compatibility of home occupations with other uses permitted in the applicable districts; to maintain and preserve the agricultural and rural character of the area; to prevent excessive noise, traffic, and other potential nuisances from commercial uses being conducted in the applicable districts. The purpose of rural home occupations is to provide a means for residents in the large lot rural districts to participate in the types of businesses that may require more space for equipment and materials than permitted in residential home occupation districts but do not require the type of facilities offered in commercial districts. Rural home occupations, where permitted, must meet the following requirements:
1.
The minimum lot size is five acres. For lots less than five acres, the home occupation is limited to the provision of section 12.1.
2.
The rural home occupation must be clearly subordinate to the principal use of the parcel for dwelling and agricultural purposes, not change the residential and agricultural character of the area, and must be operated by the owner of the property or with written approval of the owner if applicant resides in a rented dwelling unit.
3.
No more than three persons who are not residents of the dwelling unit may be employed on premises in the conduct of a home occupation.
4.
Any off-premises employees of the home occupation shall not congregate on the premises for any purpose concerning the home occupation.
5.
The home occupation may be conducted within a dwelling or within an accessory building provided that all structures used are harmonious in appearance with the zoning district where the rural home occupation will locate.
6.
There shall be no external indication of the home occupation or variation from the rural character of the principal use, except as required by local, state and/or federal law.
7.
One accessory building not exceeding 2,500 square feet and located behind the principal dwelling may be used in connection with the home occupation. If the accessory building is to be occupied it must meet state building codes.
8.
Storage of equipment or materials used in the conduct of the home occupation is permitted.
9.
On-premises retail sales are limited to products or goods produced or fabricated on the premises as a result of the home occupation.
10.
Rural home occupation is limited to the uses described in section 12.1.10 and to contractors, trade practitioners, and other vendors of services in which storage of equipment is required in the course in the conduct of business. [Examples may include, but are not limited to, all those listed in section 12.1.10; veterinary services; masonry, plumbing, electrical, painting, and light construction, contractors; lawn maintenance; etc.]
11.
No manufacturing process (the production of goods industrially, making something into a finished product on a large industrial scale, or producing something with machines in an industrial manner) shall be permitted; in addition, no automotive services shall be permitted.
(Ord. No. 10-98, 8-4-98; Ord. No. 02-13 , § 1C, 10-1-2013; Ord. No. 05-14 , § 1B, 11-4-2014)
Sec. 13. - Drive-in theater.
13.1. Location:
The site must have direct access to a major thoroughfare with ingress and egress separated and marked to minimize traffic congestion.
13.2. Site:
The theater screen shall not be visible from any public street within 1,500 feet. Automobiles parked in the viewing area shall be effectively screened on all sides by a wall, fence, or densely planted evergreen hedge of not less than six feet in height. All setbacks in the zone in which the use is permitted shall apply to all main or accessory structures.
13.3. Admissions Waiting Space:
Off-street admission waiting space for patrons shall be equal to 20 percent of the capacity of the theater.
13.4. Other Requirements:
The sale of refreshments and play area shall be limited to the use of patrons of the theater. No central loudspeaker system is permitted. All parking and access way shall be adequately lighted; however, all lighting shall be shielded to prevent glare or reflection onto a public street or adjoining property.
Sec. 14. - Manufactured housing unit parks.
The purpose of this section is to provide for sound and healthy residential environments sufficient to meet the unique needs of inhabitants living in manufactured housing units, to protect mobile home groups from encroachment by incompatible land uses, and to encourage the consolidation of manufactured housing units into manufactured housing unit districts. In districts where manufactured housing unit parks are permitted, the following minimum standards shall apply:
14.1. Minimum Park Requirements:
EXPAND
Area: 3 acres and 10 spaces available for immediate occupancy. 7,500 square feet of land area for each manufactured housing unit to be parked.
Yards: Front - 50 feet; rear and side - 25 feet.
Height: Maximum 1 story or 15 feet.
Open space: 150 square feet of park and recreation area per mobile home space.
  14.2. Manufactured Housing Unit Space Requirements:
EXPAND
Space width: 40 feet minimum.
Front yard: 10 feet minimum.
Side yard: 20 feet between manufactured housing unit.
Rear yard: 25 feet minimum.
Parking: 2 spaces for each manufactured housing unit.
  14.3. Other Requirements:
1.
Survey site plan required shall include the following: name and address of owner, vicinity map, scale - 1″=100′ north arrow, numbered lots, lot numbers, size of lots, street layout, trash container(s) location, location of all utilities including sewage, unless originally approved with site plans—no accessory buildings or additions to manufactured housing units allowed.
2.
Access roads within manufactured housing unit parks shall be not less than 20 feet and shall be paved with a hard surface treatment.
3.
There shall be established and maintained guest parking facilities at a ratio of one space per three manufactured housing unit spaces. If access roads are paved to a width of 32 feet, guest off-street parking spaces shall not be required.
4.
Each manufactured housing unit space shall be equipped with a pad ten feet for a single-wide, 20 feet for a double-wide by 45 feet long of six inches of compacted gravel or other similar material.
5.
Each manufactured housing unit space shall be furnished with connections to water, sewer or septic [tank], and electricity utilities; and all will be approved by the appropriate public department.
6.
Manufactured housing units may not be used for nonresidential use within manufactured housing unit parks except for the manufactured housing unit park office.
7.
Standards for manufactured housing unit shall also apply to the latest edition of the building codes adopted by the State of Georgia.
8.
No owner of a manufactured housing park shall allow a manufactured housing unit to locate or relocate within the park without a location placement permit from the county inspector's office and proof of tax paid.
9.
An approved trash container(s), to be compatible with the Harris County sanitation pickup service, shall be located within 150 feet of any manufactured housing unit park and shall be screened by a solid opaque fence of adequate height to screen from view any material in [the] container. Such trash containers shall be provided by the manufactured housing unit park owner/operator.
10.
All owners, operators of said manufactured housing park shall be responsible for the upkeep of all drives (access roads) within the confines of said park; and the grounds shall be clear of all litter, trash, garbage, inoperable automobiles, trucks, etc. as well as maintaining grounds (cutting of grass, maintenance of other landscaping), and drainage to assure a clean, habitable, and sanitary environment.
11.
It shall be the responsibility of the owner/manager of said manufactured housing parks to not rent, lease, or otherwise convey the use of property within confined said manufactured housing park until proper permits have been issued by Harris County Inspector for said location. A registration shall be required to be kept on premises of all lots rented, leased, or otherwise conveyed to include date, name, address, phone, lot number, size and model.
12.
A five-foot buffer strip shall be planted within the 25-foot side and rear yards of the manufactured housing unit park.
13.
Skirting: All manufactured housing units shall have suitable skirting between the base of the unit and the ground. This skirting shall be made of either concrete block, brick, wood, or other materials intended for such use. Openings in the skirting shall not be more than two inches square.
14.
Anchors. All units shall be provided with anchors as required by the latest edition of the building codes adopted by the State of Georgia.
15.
Inspection: Before electric service is given any manufactured housing unit, the unit and the lot upon which it is located shall be inspected by the building department after the necessary permits are approved, and all other requirements of this ordinance and other laws, [and] codes, effecting [affecting] said location.
16.
Travel trailers: Manufactured housing unit space shall not be used for accommodation of travel trailers or recreational vehicles under any circumstances.
17.
Conditions. The manufactured housing unit to be placed shall bear a label certifying it was constructed in compliance with the National Manufactured Housing Construction and Safety Standards Act of 1974, 42 U.S.C. Section 5401, et seq. (the HUD Code) and shall be installed in accordance with O.C.G.A. § 8-2-160, et seq., prior to issuance of permit.
(Ord. of 7-3-90, §§ 2—6; Ord. No. 02-11, § 1B, 2-1-2011)
Sec. 15. - Manufactured housing unit.
The purpose of this section is to provide for compatibility of manufactured housing units and to impose standards, conditions and an inspection program for pre-owned manufactured homes which are relocated in or to the county.
15.1 Compatibility.
1.
The manufactured housing unit must have a pitched roof and be covered with material that is residential in appearance, including, but not limited to, approved wood, asphalt composition, or fiberglass composition shingles, but excluding corrugated aluminum, corrugated fiberglass or corrugated metal roof.
2.
The exterior siding must be residential in appearance, including, but not limited to, clapboards, simulated clapboards, such as conventional vinyl or metal siding, wood shingles, shakes, or similar material, but excluding smooth, ribbed, or corrugated metal or plastic panels.
3.
The manufactured housing unit must have a measured minimum width dimension of at least 20 feet, exclusive of those manufactured housing units to be placed in an MHU-1 zone, which must be a minimum of 12 feet in width.
4.
The manufactured housing unit must be placed on a foundation and be anchored in a manner that complies with the latest published edition of the building codes adopted by the State of Georgia.
5.
The manufactured housing unit must have the area underneath the home completely enclosed with a permanent perimeter enclosure. The enclosure shall be of either rock, brick, concrete block, concrete with stucco type finish, except for a minimum of 18-inch by 24-inch latchable access door and required crawl space venting.
6.
The hitch, axles and wheels must be removed from the unit when placed.
7.
Condition: The manufactured housing unit to be placed must bear a label certifying that it was constructed in compliance with the National Manufactured Housing Construction and Safety Standards Act of 1974, 42 U.S.C. Section 5401, et seq. (the HUD Code) prior to issuance of permit and shall be installed in accordance with O.C.G.A. § 8-2-160, et seq.
8.
The compatibility standards set forth in this section apply only to manufactured housing units to be located in zoning areas designated as A-1 General Agricultural and Forestry, and MHU-2 Manufactured Housing Unit Districts - Subdivisions.
15.2 Pre-owned manufactured housing unit.
In addition to the preceding requirements, the following applies to pre-owned manufactured housing units:
1.
Permit. A permit shall be required to locate a pre-owned manufactured housing unit in the county. Permit shall be issued within seven days of receipt of all required items.
A.
To obtain a permit for a unit located at another site within the county, applicants shall provide to the building inspector:
(1)
An affidavit signed by the applicant that the pre-owned manufactured housing unit meets health and safety standards required by this ordinance; and
(2)
Payment of permit and inspection fee required by this subsection.
B.
To obtain a permit for a unit located outside the county, applicants shall provide, in addition to the items required above, the following to the building inspector:
(1)
Photographs of the interior and exterior of the pre-owned manufactured housing unit showing that the home meets the minimum health and safety standards of the State Building Code and the HUD code, and
(2)
A refundable cash deposit or a guarantee of condition bond to guarantee that the required affidavit and photographs reasonably portray or represent the existing condition of the pre-owned manufactured housing unit proposed for relocation to the county.
2.
Inspection. Upon receipt of a permit, applicants may relocate the manufactured housing unit on a residential site for the purposes of inspection. Once the installation of the manufactured housing unit is complete, applicant shall contact the building inspector to arrange for an inspection. Installation includes the construction of a foundation system on which the manufactured housing unit is placed, and the supporting, blocking, leveling, securing, and anchoring of such pre-owned manufactured housing unit and connecting multiple or expandable sections of such unit.
3.
Fees.
A.
Permit and inspection fee. A permit and inspection fee shall be charged to cover the permit application processing and inspection of the pre-owned manufactured home. Such fee covers the initial inspection and one follow-up inspection of the pre-owned manufactured home. An additional fee shall be charged for each additional follow-up inspection that may be necessary.
B.
Pre-inspection fee. At the request of the applicant, the building inspector shall inspect a pre-owned manufactured housing unit prior to its being relocated in the county regardless of whether the unit is located at another site in the county or in an adjoining county. If the pre-owned manufactured home is located in the county, there shall be, in addition to the permit and inspection fee, a pre-inspection fee. If the pre-owned manufactured home is located in an adjoining county, there shall be, in addition to the permit and inspection fee, a pre-inspection fee and mileage based on miles traveled outside the county at the IRS mileage reimbursement rate current at the time of inspection. The pre-inspection pertains only to the health and safety standards required by this section and the HUD Code, and does not pertain to the road worthiness of a pre-owned manufactured home that is to be relocated.
4.
Minimum health and safety standards. All pre-owned manufactured housing units shall be in compliance with the state building code, and the Federal Manufactured Housing Construction and Safety Standards Act of 1974, 42 U.S.C. Section 5401-5445 (the HUD Code) and shall not have been altered in such a way that the home no longer meets the HUD Code.
5.
Enforcement.
A.
Permanent connection to utilities shall not be approved until the building inspector has issued a certificate of occupancy.
B.
Owners of pre-owned manufactured housing units that are not in compliance upon a third inspection shall have their permit revoked and shall be required to remove the unit from the county at their own expense.
C.
The cash deposit or guarantee of condition bond will be forfeited after 90 days from the date of inspection, unless all conditions and standards are met prior to the end of the 90 days or an extension has been issued in writing by the building inspector.
6.
Penalties. Failure to remove a pre-owned manufactured housing unit from the county upon failure to receive a certificate of occupancy shall be punishable by a fine not exceeding $1,000.00. Each day any violation under this section continues shall be considered a separate offense.
(Ord. of 7-3-90, § 8; Ord. No. 02-11, § 1C, 2-1-2011)
Editor's note— Section 7 of an ordinance adopted July 3, 1990, repealed former § 15, "Manufactured Housing Unit Standards." These were included subsections 13—17 of § 14.3 by §§ 2—6 of the same ordinance. Section 8 added a new § 15.
Sec. 16. - Swimming pool.
The following regulations shall apply to swimming pools:
1.
Private swimming pools may be established in agricultural and residential zoning districts provided they are to be used solely by the occupants of the property on which it is [they are] located and their guests. No part of the swimming pool may extend into any required front yard in [an] agricultural zone or into any required front or side yard in [a] residential zone.
2.
Swimming pools may be established in any zoning district. They may be located anywhere within the back yard of a residential zone based on topography. All noncommercial pools shall be enclosed by a fence or wall adjacent to the pool decking not less than four feet in height. All commercial pools shall be enclosed by a fence or wall adjacent to the pool decking and not less than six feet in height to prevent uncontrolled access.
(Ord. No. 1-96B, 5-7-96)
Sec. 17. - Gasoline service stations.
The following regulations shall apply to all gasoline service stations:
1.
There shall be a building setback from all street right-of-way lines a distance of not less than 50 feet. Other yard setbacks shall conform to the zone in which the station is located.
2.
Gasoline pump islands shall not be located closer than 15 feet to any street right-of-way line; however, when pump islands are constructed perpendicular to the pavement edge, the pump island shall be located not less than 30 feet from the right-of-way lines.
Sec. 18. - Condominium and townhouse development.
The following regulations shall apply to all condominium and townhouse development:
1.
The applicant shall submit a site plan, front elevation and typical floor plan of the proposed units.
2.
Each unit shall be independently served by separate utilities and services and, if multistoried, shall be served by interior stairways.
3.
Accessory structures shall be located in the rear yard only.
4.
No vehicular entrance or curb cut shall be permitted to the front of any individual townhouse or condominium unit.
5.
A permit for the construction of condominium or townhouse development shall be issued in accordance with the regulations set forth after evidence has been presented in the form of proposed deed covenants and restrictions requiring the maintenance of jointly owned areas.
Sec. 19. - Inert landfill.
Permits for inert landfills must be approved by the appropriate state agencies and notifications of adjacent property owners prior to approval of county commissioners. Inert landfills approved by the appropriate state agency for handling such permits and operations will be allowed to operate without expanding said operation. Any such expansion must have all necessary approvals with notifications of all adjacent property owners.
Sec. 20. - Utilities and generating facilities.
In order to assure the protection of existing and future residential developments, the installation of new utility and/or generating facilities, and the expansion of existing generating facilities shall comply with the following standards:
1.
Noise. Applications for the development or expansion of any generating facility, major or minor, must provide verification that all generating equipment:
a.
is located no less than 400 feet from any adjacent property line;
b.
will not exceed 46 dBA and 70 dBC at any point 400 feet from the source of the noise;
c.
will not increase the current dBA and dBC levels on the property of any existing residential or agricultural use;
d.
will provide measures for the cessation of operations of the generating facility if noise levels exceed those allowed above.
2.
Water. In order to protect ground and surface water resources in Harris County, under no conditions shall water be taken by applicant from any source, including but not limited to, surface ponds, streams, wells, or any source other than that supplied by the Harris County Water Department. The applicant is to provide all materials and labor required by the Harris County Water Department necessary for adequate connection to the public water system.
3.
Environmental impact of emissions. Emissions from the facility shall remain within the limits set by the Environmental Protection Division of the Georgia Department of Natural Resources at all times. If, at any time, the emissions are found and confirmed by the EPD to be in excess of the limits established by the EPD, all operations of the generating facility will cease immediately until the facility can be operated in compliance with the approved emissions regulations. Failure to cease operations immediately upon notice of emissions violations by EPD will result in a mandatory closing of the facility by Harris County authorities.
4.
Lighting. Sources of exterior illumination shall be directed away from all adjoining residential property and public roads, and shall not exceed one and two-tenths (1.2) footcandles in intensity along the property lines of any adjoining property of residential use when measured 36 to 48 inches above grade at any point along the common property line. No lighting shall illuminate a public road, directly or indirectly, with a level of intensity that is deemed by the Georgia Department of Transportation, or by the Harris County Department of Public Works, to be potentially hazardous to vehicular traffic.
5.
Fire suppression. All facilities involved in the use or storage of flammable fuels or products shall present for approval a detailed plan of the fire protection measures proposed for the facility. No site development plan will be approved without an approved fire protection plan.
6.
Site plan. A site plan is to be submitted which demonstrates that all buildings, structures, activities and uses of the proposed project are in compliance with zoning and subdivision regulations of Harris County.
7.
Access. A site plan is to be submitted which demonstrates that access to and from the property complies with all state and county ordinances regarding road access.
(Ord. No. 01-99, 7-6-99)
Sec. 21. - Live-work unit.
The following regulations shall apply to all live-work units
1.
Only permitted in zoning districts A-1 General Agricultural and Forestry, C-1 Central Business [Commercial], C-3 Neighborhood Commercial, C-4 Highway Commercial, and CORD Commercial Outdoor Recreation Development upon approval of special use permit by the board of commissioners.
2.
The district regulations for the zoning district in which the unit is located shall apply.
3.
Occupancy Limit - Only those persons living in the residential area of the unit shall be engaged in the occupation within the work area; the residential area cannot be rented out or operated as a rooming/boarding house.
4.
Use Restriction - Sales representatives and/or customers are not permitted in the residential area.
5.
Floor Area - Minimum of 1,000 square feet with work area no smaller than 150 square feet and no larger than 40 percent of the total floor space in the unit.
6.
Connection of Areas - There shall be a physical connection between the work area and the residential area.
7.
Location of Residential Area - Residential area shall be above the first-floor work area and not on the main/ground/street level unless the unit is properly designed to ensure residential area privacy.
(Ord. No. 06-08, § 7, 9-2-2008; Ord. No. 01-10, § 2, 4-6-2010)
Sec. 22. - Snack shop.
22.1. As a temporary accessory use to the following principal uses:
1.
Corn maze.
2.
Farm tours, educational.
3.
Pumpkin patch (as allowed in article IV, section 2, item #3C)
22.2. Snack shop standards:
1.
A temporary structure not to exceed 200 square feet.
2.
No electrical service and/or no water service.
3.
Hours of operation must mirror hours of operation of principal use (see [section] 22.1).
4.
Structure must be located off the right-of-way.
5.
Structure must be removed at end of seasonal operation.
( Ord. No. 03-14 , § 1F, 10-7-2014)
Sec. 23. - Solar collection systems.
23.1. Solar collection systems shall be considered an accessory use in resort zoning districts in accordance with the following requirements:
1.
A solar panel site located in a resort zoning district, and not on an individual residential property within the district, shall require the submittal of an addendum to the resort master plan for review and approval by the Harris County Planning Commission.
2.
Freestanding solar panels located on the ground or attached to a framework located on the ground shall not exceed 20 feet in height above the ground.
3.
Freestanding solar panels shall meet the setback as required for in the district in which they are located.
4.
The total coverage of a lot with freestanding solar panels cannot exceed the greater of 50 percent lot coverage or the maximum allowable coverage for the district in which they are located.
5.
Roof-mounted solar panels installed on a building or structure with a sloped roof shall not project vertically more than the height requirements for the district in which they are located.
6.
A solar energy system shall not be used to display advertising, including signage, streamers, pennants, spinners, reflectors, ribbons, tinsel, balloons, flags, banners or similar materials.
7.
Systems located on the roof shall provide, as part of their permit application, evidence of design review and structural certification if the slope of the panel differs from the roof pitch. All panels on commercial roofs shall provide this information regardless of slopes, as well as any residential roof with greater than 50 percent coverage.
8.
The identification of the manufacturer(s) or installer and appropriate warning signage shall be posted on or near the panels in a clearly visible manner.
9.
No solar energy system shall be installed until evidence has been presented to the department of community development that the electric utility company has been informed of the customer's intent to install an interconnected customer-owned generator. Off-grid systems shall be exempt from this requirement.
10.
Any panels installed to be used by someone other than the owner of the property shall provide an affidavit or evidence of agreement between the lot owner and facility's owner or operator confirming the facility owner or operator has permission of the property owner to install and utilize solar panels.
23.2. The following requirements shall be met for decommissioning solar collection systems:
1.
Freestanding solar collection systems that have not been active and in continuous service for a period of one year shall be removed at the expense of the owner or operator.
2.
The site shall be restored to as natural condition as possible within six months of the removal.
23.3. The following requirements shall be met for building/development permit applications for a solar collection system:
1.
A descriptive plot plan including setbacks, panel sizes, locations of property lines, buildings, and road right-of-ways for freestanding solar panels.
2.
Any other relevant studies, reports, certificates and approvals as may be reasonably requested by the department of community development, including, but not limited to, design review.
( Ord. No. 06-14 , § 1C, 11-4-2014)
ARTICLE VI. - NONCONFORMING USES OF LAND AND STRUCTURES
Except as otherwise provided in this article, a nonconforming use or utilization of land or structures existing at the time of enactment of this ordinance or the adoption of an amendment thereto and only where said usage of land and structures is in actual performance may be continued and maintained provided that such use of land or structure was not established or created in violation of any previous zoning ordinance in effect in Harris County and remains in violation of this ordinance.
(Ord. No. 1-96C, 5-21-96)

Sec. 1. - Alteration or enlargement of structures.
A nonconforming structure shall not be added to or enlarged in any manner unless said structure, including additions and enlargements, is made to conform to all the regulations or other appropriate related codes. An appeal from this section may be submitted to the board of zoning adjustment.
Sec. 2. - Cessation of use of land or structure.
A nonconforming use of land or structures that has been discontinued for a period of 12 months may not be resumed except in conformity with the regulations of the district in which it is located.
Sec. 3. - Damage to nonconforming uses.
Any nonconforming use of land or structure which is damaged to an extent of 60 percent of its fair market value shall not be restored except in conformity with current regulations and building codes. In the case of damage to a manufactured housing unit in place at the time of adoption of this ordinance, application for replacement may be made to the county inspector within one year of date of damage.
Sec. 4. - Repairs to nonconforming uses.
Such repairs and maintenance to nonconforming uses as are required to keep them in sound condition may be made to a nonconforming structure provided no structural alterations shall be made except in conformity with this ordinance or as are required by other laws or ordinances.
ARTICLE VI-A. - STANDARDS FOR TELECOMMUNICATIONS ANTENNAS AND TOWERS

Sec. 1. - Purposes.
This ordinance is designed and intended to balance the interests of the residents of Harris County, telecommunications providers, and telecommunications customers in the siting of telecommunications facilities within unincorporated Harris County so as to protect the health, safety, and integrity of residential neighborhoods; and to foster, through appropriate zoning and land use controls, a competitive environment for telecommunications carriers that does not unreasonably discriminate among providers of functionally equivalent personal wireless services. This ordinance shall not prohibit, or have the effect of prohibiting, the provision of personal wireless services. This ordinance is intended to promote Harris County as a proactive County in the availability of personal wireless telecommunications service. To that end, this ordinance shall:
(A)
Provide for the appropriate location and development of telecommunications facilities within unincorporated Harris County;
(B)
Protect Harris County's built and natural environment by promoting compatible design standards for telecommunications facilities;
(C)
Minimize adverse visual impacts of telecommunications facilities through careful design, siting, landscape screening and innovative camouflaging techniques;
(D)
Avoid potential damage to adjacent properties from tower or antennas failure through engineering and careful siting of telecommunications tower structures and antennas;
(E)
Maximize use of any new and existing telecommunications towers through colocation so as to minimize the need to construct new towers and minimize the total number of towers throughout the County;
(F)
Maximize and encourage use of alternate telecommunication tower structures as a primary option rather than construction of additional single-use towers; and
(G)
Encourage and promote the location of new telecommunications activities in areas which are not zoned for residential use.
(Ord. No. 06-02, § 1, 8-21-2002)
Sec. 2. - Definitions.
As used in this Ordinance, the following terms shall have the meanings indicated:
(A)
Alternative tower structure: man-made trees, clock towers, bell steeples, light poles and similar alternative-design mounting structures that camouflage or conceal the presence of antennas or towers.
(B)
Antenna: any exterior apparatus designed for telephonic, radio, or television communications through the sending and/or receiving of electromagnetic waves.
(C)
FAA: the Federal Aviation Administration.
(D)
FCC: the Federal Communications Commission.
(E)
Governing authority: the Board of Commissioners of Harris County.
(F)
Preexisting towers and antennas: the meaning set forth in Section 3 (D) of this Ordinance.
(G)
Height: when referring to a tower or other structure, the distance measured from ground level at the base of the structure to the highest point on the tower or other structure, even if said highest point is an antenna.
(H)
Tower: any structure that is designed and constructed primarily for the purpose of supporting one or more antennas, including self-supporting lattice towers, guy towers, or monopole towers. The term includes radio and television transmission towers, microwave towers, common-carrier towers, cellular telephone towers, alternative tower structures, and the like.
(I)
Telecommunication facility: towers or antennas, either individually or together.
(J)
Planning and Zoning Department: the Harris County Planning and Zoning Department and/or the Harris County Planning and Zoning Director as such may exist and from time to time be organized by the Harris County Board of Commissioners.
(Ord. No. 06-02, § 2, 8-21-2002)
Sec. 3. - Applicability.
(A)
District Height Limitations. The requirements set forth in this Ordinance shall govern the location of towers that exceed, and antennas that are installed at a height in excess of, the height limitations specified for each zoning district. The height limitations applicable to buildings and structures shall not apply to towers and antennas, except as provided herein.
(B)
Public Property. Antennas or towers located on property owned, leased, or otherwise controlled by the governing authority shall be exempt from the requirements of this Ordinance, provided a license or lease authorizing such antenna or tower has been approved by the governing authority.
(C)
Amateur Radio, Receive-Only Antennas. This Ordinance shall not govern any tower, or the installation of any antenna, that is under seventy (70) feet in height and is owned and operated by a federally-licensed amateur radio station operator or is used exclusively for receive only antennas.
(D)
Pre-Existing Towers and Antennas. Any tower or antenna for which a permit has been properly issued prior to the effective date of this Ordinance shall not be required to meet the requirements of this Ordinance, other than the requirements of Section 4(D) and Section 4(E). Any such towers or antennas shall be referred to in this Ordinance as "preexisting towers" or "preexisting antennas".
(Ord. No. 06-02, § 3, 8-21-2002)
Sec. 4. - Standards applicable to all towers and antennas.
No tower or antenna shall be located in Harris County except as set forth in this Ordinance. The following standards shall apply to all towers and antennas, unless the governing authority reduces the standards if the goals of this Ordinance would be better served thereby:
(A)
Principal or Accessory Use. Antennas and towers may be considered either principal or accessory uses. A different existing use or an existing structure on the same lot shall not preclude the installation of an antenna or tower on such lot. For the purposes of determining whether the installation of a tower or antenna complies with district development regulations, including but not limited to set-back requirements, lot coverage requirements, and other such requirements, the dimensions of the entire lot shall control, even though the antennas or towers may be located on leased parcels within such lots. Towers that are constructed and antennas that are installed in accordance with the provisions of this Ordinance shall not be deemed to constitute the expansion of a non-conforming use or structure.
(B)
Inventory of Existing Sites. Each applicant for an antenna and/or tower shall provide to the Planning and Zoning Department an inventory of its existing towers that are either within the geographic area of Harris County or within one-half mile of the border thereof, including specific information about the location, height, and design of each tower.
(C)
Aesthetics; Lighting. The guidelines set forth in this paragraph shall govern the location of all towers, and the installation of all antennas, governed by this Ordinance; provided, however, that the governing authority may waive these requirements if it determines that the goals of this Ordinance are better served thereby. The determination whether a proposed tower or antenna meets these requirements shall be within the discretion of the Harris County Board of Commissioners. This list is not an exclusive list of the aesthetic issues the governing authority may consider; these are merely guidelines. The governing authority may consider any factor that serves the goals and purposes of this Ordinance.
(1)
Towers shall either maintain a galvanized steel finish or, subject to any applicable standards of the FAA, be painted a neutral color, so as to reduce visual obtrusiveness.
(2)
At a tower site, the design of the buildings and related structures shall use materials, colors, textures, screening, and landscaping that will blend the tower facilities to the natural setting and built environment.
(3)
If an antenna is installed on a structure other than a tower, the antenna and supporting electrical and mechanical equipment must be of a neutral color that is identical to, or closely compatible with, the color of the supporting structure so as to make the antenna and related equipment as visually unobtrusive as possible.
(4)
Towers shall not be artificially lighted, unless required by the FAA or other applicable authority. If lighting is required, the governing authority may review the available lighting alternatives and approve the design that would cause the least disturbance to the surrounding views. No advertising or signage is permitted on telecommunications facilities.
(D)
Federal Requirements. All towers must meet or exceed current standards and regulations of the FAA, the FCC, and any other agency of the federal government with the authority to regulate towers and antennas. If such standards and regulations are changed, then the owners of the towers and antennas governed by this Ordinance shall bring such towers and antennas into compliance with such revised standards and regulations within six (6) months of the effective date of such standards and regulations, unless a more stringent compliance schedule is mandated by the controlling federal agency. Failure to bring towers and antennas into compliance with such revised standards and regulations shall constitute grounds for the removal of the tower or antenna at the owner's expense. Any such removal by the governing authority shall be in the manner provided in Sections 41-2-7 through 41-2-17 of the Official Code of Georgia.
(E)
Building Codes; Safety Standards. To ensure the structural integrity of towers, the owner of a tower shall ensure that it is maintained in compliance with standards for towers that are published by the Electronic Industries Association, as amended from time to time. If, upon inspection, the governing authority concludes that a tower fails to comply with such codes and standards and constitutes a danger to persons or property, then upon notice being provided to the owner of the tower, the owner shall have thirty (30) days to bring such tower into compliance with such standards. If the owner fails to bring such tower into compliance within said thirty (30) days, the governing authority may remove such tower at the owner's expense. Any such removal by the governing authority shall be in the manner provided in Sections 41-2-7 through 41-2-17 of the Official Code of Georgia.
(F)
Site location and development shall preserve the preexisting character of the surrounding buildings and land uses and the zoning district as much as possible. Personal wireless telecommunications towers shall be integrated through location and design to blend in with existing characteristics of the site to the extent practical.
(G)
Existing on-site vegetation shall be preserved or improved, and disturbance of the existing topography shall be minimized, unless such disturbance would result in less visual impact of the site to the surrounding area.
(H)
At a tower site, the design of the buildings and related structures shall, to the extent possible, use materials, colors, textures, screening, and landscaping that will blend the tower and related facilities to the natural setting and built environment.
(I)
Placement of more than one tower on a lot shall be permitted, provided all set-back, design, and landscape requirements are met as to each tower. Structures may be located as close to each other as technically feasible, provided tower failure characteristics of the towers on the site will not lead to multiple failures in the event that one fails.
(J)
Towers must be set back a distance equal to the height of the tower from any residential property line and all public rights-of-way, plus any other applicable set-back requirements for the zoning district encompassing the proposed tower.
(K)
Towers, guys, and accessory facilities must satisfy the minimum zoning district setback requirements for front, side, and rear yards. In no case shall a tower be located in the required front yard, back yard, or side yard set back in a residential district.
(L)
Towers shall not be sited where they will negatively affect historic or scenic view corridors as designated by the governing authority or any state or federal law or agency or where they will create visual clutter.
(M)
Towers shall be enclosed by decay-resistant security fencing installed along the perimeter of the compound not less than six (6) feet in height and shall be equipped with an appropriate anti-climbing device or other similar protective device designed to prevent tower access.
(N)
The following requirements shall govern the landscaping surrounding towers.
(1)
Tower facilities shall be landscaped with a buffer of plant materials that effectively screens the view of the tower compound from adjacent properties. The standard buffer shall consist of a landscaped strip at least ten (10) feet wide outside the required fence.
(2)
In locations where the visual impact of the tower would be minimal, as determined by the Planning and Zoning Department, the landscaping requirement may be reduced or waived altogether.
(3)
Existing mature tree growth and natural land forms on the site shall be preserved to the maximum extent possible. In some cases, such as towers sited on large, wooded lots, natural growth around the property perimeter may provide an adequate buffer at the discretion of the Planning and Zoning Department.
(O)
Any tower proposed at a height greater than one hundred (100) feet, up to one hundred twenty (120) feet shall be designed and intended to accommodate at least three (3) users. Furthermore, for every additional twenty (20) feet of height, said tower shall be designed to accommodate an additional user.
(Ord. No. 06-02, § 4, 8-21-2002)
Sec. 5. - Application procedures for all towers and antennas.
The following must be provided when applying for a permit for a telecommunications facility:
(A)
Site plan, prepared and sealed by an appropriate licensing professional, to scale specifying the location of the telecommunications facilities, height of facilities, set-backs, transmission building and/or other accessory uses, access, parking, fences, landscape plan, and adjacent land uses.
(B)
A full description of the environment surrounding the proposed telecommunications facility, including any adjacent residential structures and districts, structures and sites of historic significance, or scenic view corridors.
(C)
A description of anticipated maintenance needs for the telecommunications facility, including frequency of service, personnel needs, equipment needs, and traffic, noise, or safety impacts of such maintenance.
(D)
Report from a qualified, independent engineer licensed in the State of Georgia, documenting the following:
(1)
Telecommunications facility height and design, including technical, engineering, economic, and other pertinent factors governing selection of the proposed design;
(2)
Total anticipated capacity of the telecommunications facility; including number and types of antennas which can be accommodated;
(3)
Evidence of structural integrity of the tower structure; and
(4)
Structural failure characteristics of the telecommunications facility and demonstration that site and setbacks are of adequate size to contain debris should a failure occur.
(5)
A definition of the area of service to be served by the antenna or tower and whether such antenna or tower is needed for coverage or capacity.
(6)
Information showing the proposed facility would provide the needed coverage or capacity, and that they cannot provide personal wireless communication service without the use of the proposed tower or antennas.
(7)
The identity of a community liaison officer appointed by the applicant to resolve issues of concern to neighbors and residents relating to the construction and operation of the facility. Include name, address, telephone number, facsimile number, and electronic mail address and pager number, if applicable.
(8)
Identification of the geographic service area for the subject installation, including:
(a)
A map showing the site and the nearest or associated telecommunications facility sites within the network;
(b)
A description of the distance between existing or proposed telecommunications facility sites; and
(c)
A description of how this service area fits into and is necessary for the service network.
(9)
Provide information to justify why co-location on an existing tower is not being proposed.
(10)
If the proposed site is zoned residential applicants must justify why alternative non-residential sites have not been proposed.
(E)
Each application shall include a five year facilities plan and site inventory including the following:
(a)
A list of all existing, to be upgraded or replaced, and proposed telecommunications facility sites within Harris County and a map showing these sites. The list must include (1) street address, land lot, section, district, and parcel number; (2) zoning district; (3) type of building and number of stories; (4) the number of antennas and base transceiver stations per site and the location and type of antenna installation (stand alone, rooftop, building facade, etc.), and location of the base transceiver station installation(s); (5) the height from ground to the top of the antenna installation; and (6) the radio frequency range in megahertz, the wattage output of the equipment and effective radiated power. Furthermore, after a tower structure has been approved, the applicant must submit a permit renewal application, which reports the status on the use of said tower, annually to the Planning and Zoning Department for administrative approval.
(b)
If the applicant does not know specific future tower and antenna site locations but does know of areas where telecommunications facilities will be needed within the next five (5) years to provide service, the applicant shall list the land lots contained within the anticipated geographic service area and identify each geographic service are with a number that will correspond to the future telecommunication facility site.
(F)
A copy of the license from the Federal Communication Commission and a written statement from the Federal Aviation Agency and any appropriate state review authority (i.e. State Historic Preservation Officer-SHPO, etc.) stating that the proposed telecommunications facility complies with regulations administered by that agency or that the tower is exempt from those regulations.
(G)
The applicant shall provide any other information requested by the Planning and Zoning Department in order to fully evaluate the potential impact of the proposed facility.
(H)
The applicant shall pay all applicable fees as set out in the Schedule Fees for the Harris County Planning and Zoning Department.
(Ord. No. 06-02, § 5, 8-21-2002)
Sec. 6. - Permitted uses.
(A)
General. The uses listed in this Section are deemed to be permitted uses and shall not require a special use permit but shall require application and administrative review as provided for in Section 6. Nevertheless, all such uses shall comply with Section 3 of this Ordinance and all other applicable ordinances.
(B)
Specified Permitted Uses. The following uses are specifically permitted:
(1)
In commercial zoning districts (C-1, C-3 and C-4), locating a tower up to a height of fifty (50) feet (or eighty (80) feet if designed and intended to accommodate at least two (2) users), or an antenna, including the placement of additional buildings or other supporting equipment used in connection with the tower or antenna shall be allowed as a use by right; provided, however, that such tower shall be set back from any existing residential property line and/or public right-of-way a distance equal to the height of the tower plus the required setback for the applicable zoning district.
(C)
In industrial zoning districts (M-1 and M-2), locating a tower up to a height of eight (80) feet (or one hundred (100) feet if designed and intended to accommodate at least two (2) users), or an antenna, including the placement of additional buildings or other supporting equipment used in connection with the tower or antenna shall be allowed as a use by right; provided, however, that such tower shall be set back from any existing residential property line and/or public right-of-way a distance equal to the height of the tower plus the required setback for the applicable zoning district.
(D)
Installing an antenna on an existing structure other than a tower (such as a building, sign, light pole, water tower, or other free-standing nonresidential structure) so long as said additional antenna adds no more than twenty (20) feet to the height of said existing structure. For antennas attached to the roof or a supporting structure on a rooftop, a 1:1 setback ratio (example: ten (10) foot high antenna and supporting structures requires a ten (10) foot setback from edge of roof) shall be maintained unless an alternative placement is shown to reduce visual impact; provided, however, the height limitation for the zoning district is not exceeded.
(E)
Installing an antenna on any existing tower of any height, so long as the addition of said antenna adds no more than twenty (20) feet to the height of said existing tower and said existing tower is not a preexisting tower; provided, however, that such specific permitted use shall not include the placement of additional buildings or other supporting equipment used in connection with said antenna.
(Ord. No. 06-02, § 6, 8-21-2002)
Sec. 7. - Administrative approvals.
(A)
General. The Planning and Zoning Department may administratively approve the permitted uses listed in this Article. Each applicant for administrative approval shall apply to the Planning and Zoning Department, providing the information set forth in Sections 4 and 5 of this Ordinance. The applicant shall provide to the Planning and Zoning Department all information and supplementary materials that the Department requests in consideration of the requested administrative approval. If an administrative approval is denied, the applicant may appeal said denial to the Board of Commissioners of Harris County.
(B)
Specific Administratively Approved Uses. The following may be approved by the Planning and Zoning Department after conducting an administrative review:
(1)
Installing an antenna on an existing tower of any height, including a preexisting tower and further including the placement of additional buildings or other supporting equipment used in connection with said antenna, so long as the addition of said antenna adds no more than twenty (20) feet to the height of said existing tower; provided the requirements and intent of this Ordinance are met.
(2)
In commercial zoning districts (C-1, C-3 or C-4), locating a tower up to a height of one-hundred seventy-five (175) feet (or one-hundred ninety-five (195) feet if designed and intended to accommodate at least three (3) users), or an antenna, including the placement of additional buildings or other supporting equipment used in connection with the tower or antenna; provided, however, that such tower shall be setback from any existing residential property line and/or public right-of-way a distance equal to the height of the tower plus the required setback for the applicable zoning district, and provided that the requirements and intent of this Ordinance are met.
(3)
In industrial zoning districts (M-1 or M-2), locating a tower up to a height of one hundred seventy-five (175) feet (or one-hundred ninety-five (195) feet if designed and intended to accommodate at least two (2) users), or an antenna, including the placement of additional buildings or other supporting equipment used in connection with the tower or antenna; provided, however, that such tower shall be set back from any existing residential property line and/or public right-of-way a distance equal to the height of the tower plus the required setback for the applicable zoning district, and provided that the requirements and intent of this Ordinance are met.
(Ord. No. 06-02, § 7, 8-21-2002)
Sec. 8. - Special use permits.
(A)
General. The following provisions shall govern the issuance of special use permits:
(1)
If the tower or antenna is not a permitted use under Section 6 of this Ordinance or permitted to be approved administratively pursuant to Section 7 of this Ordinance, then a special use permit shall be required for construction of a tower or the placement of an antenna in all zoning districts A-1, A-0, R-2, R-3, CORD and PUD to include PRD, PCD, and PMD. The construction of a tower or placement of an antenna is specifically excluded from and is prohibited in R-1, R-R, MHU-1 and MHU-2 zoning districts.
(2)
In granting a special use permit, the governing authority may impose conditions to the extent the governing authority concludes such conditions are necessary to minimize any adverse effect of the proposed tower on adjoining properties.
(3)
Any information of an engineering nature that the applicant submits, whether civil, mechanical, or electrical shall be certified by a licensed professional engineer.
(4)
Information Required. Each applicant requesting a special use permit under this Ordinance shall comply with the requirements of Sections 4 and 5 and other applicable provisions of this Ordinance. In addition to the requirements of Sections 4 and 5, the site plan shall also include:
(a)
A scaled elevation view; and
(b)
Supporting drawings, calculations, and other documentation, signed and sealed by appropriate licensed professionals showing the location and dimensions of all improvements, including information concerning topography, radio frequency coverage, and other information deemed by the governing authority to be necessary to assess compliance with this Ordinance.
(5)
Factors Considered in Granting Special Use Permits. The governing authority shall consider the following factors in determining whether to issue a special use permit, although the governing authority may waive, reduce, or increase the burden on the applicant of one or more of these criteria if the governing authority concludes that the goals of this Ordinance are better served thereby:
(a)
Height of the proposed tower;
(b)
Proximity of the tower to residential structures and residential district boundaries;
(c)
Nature of uses on adjacent and nearby properties;
(d)
Surrounding topography;
(e)
Surrounding tree coverage and foliage;
(f)
Design of the tower, with particular reference to design characteristics that have the effect of reducing or eliminating visual obtrusiveness;
(g)
Proposed ingress and egress;
(h)
Availability of suitable existing towers, other structures, and alternative sites as discussed in Sections 5(E) and 9 of this Ordinance; and
(i)
Any other factors, limitations, or standards listed in this Ordinance.
(Ord. No. 06-02, § 8, 8-21-2002)
Sec. 9. - Availability of suitable existing towers or other structures.
(A)
No new tower shall be permitted unless the applicant demonstrates to the reasonable satisfaction of the governing authority that no existing tower or structure can accommodate the applicant's proposed antenna. Evidence submitted to demonstrate that no existing tower or structure can accommodate the applicant's proposed antenna may consist of any of the following:
(1)
No existing towers or structures are located within the geographic area required to meet applicant's engineering requirements.
(2)
Existing towers or structures are not of sufficient height to meet applicant's engineering requirements.
(3)
Existing towers or structures do not have sufficient structural strength to support applicant's proposed antenna and related equipment.
(4)
The applicant's proposed antenna would cause electromagnetic interference with the antenna on the existing tower or structures, or the antenna on the existing towers or structures would cause interference with the applicant's proposed antenna.
(5)
The applicant demonstrates that there are other limiting factors that render existing towers and structures unsuitable.
(B)
Applicants and owners shall allow other future personal wireless service companies, including public and quasipublic agencies, using functionally equivalent personal wireless technology to co-locate antennas, equipment and facilities on a telecommunications facility unless specific technical constraints or applicable law prohibit said co-location. Applicant and other personal wireless carriers shall provide a mechanism for the construction and maintenance of shared facilities and infrastructure and shall provide for equitable sharing of costs in accordance with industry standards.
(Ord. No. 06-02, § 9, 8-21-2002)
Sec. 10. - Removal of abandoned antennas and towers.
(A)
Any antenna or tower that is not operated for a continuous period of thirty-six (36) months shall be considered abandoned, and the owner of such antenna or tower shall remove same within ninety (90) days of receipt of notice from the governing authority notifying the owner of such abandonment.
(B)
If such antenna or tower is not removed within said ninety (90) days, the governing authority may, in the manner provided in Sections 41-2-7 through 41-2-17 of the Official Code of Georgia, remove such antenna or tower at the owner's expense.
(C)
If there are two (2) or more users of a single tower, then this provision shall not become effective until all users cease using the tower.
(Ord. No. 06-02, § 10, 8-21-2002)
Sec. 11. - Written decisions.
(A)
Any decisions by the Planning and Zoning Department denying a request to place, construct, or modify a telecommunications facility shall be in writing and supported by substantial evidence in a written record.
(B)
Any decision by the Board of Commissioners denying or approving a request to place, construct, or modify a telecommunications facility shall be in writing and supported by substantial evidence in a written record.
(Ord. No. 06-02, § 11, 8-21-2002)
Sec. 12. - Penalties for violation.
(A)
Any person who erects or attempts to erect a telecommunications facility covered by this Ordinance without having first obtained the necessary building permit, use by right, or special use permit, in the manner provided in this Ordinance shall be deemed in violation of this Ordinance. Any responsible party or other persons convicted by a court of competent jurisdiction of violating any provision of this Ordinance shall be guilty of violating a duly adopted Ordinance of the County and shall be punished either by a fine not to exceed one thousand dollars ($1,000.00) or by imprisonment not to exceed sixty (60) days or both.
(B)
If any structure is erected, constructed, reconstructed, altered, repaired, converted, or maintained in violation of this Ordinance or without obtaining required permits, or if any building, structure or land is used in violation of this Ordinance, the County, in addition to any other remedies, may institute proceedings to prevent such unlawful erection, construction, reconstruction, alteration, conversion, maintenance, or use, or to correct or abate such violations. Each and every day such unlawful erection, construction, reconstruction, alteration, conversion, maintenance, or use continues may be deemed a separate offense.
(Ord. No. 06-02, § 12, 8-21-2002)
ARTICLE VI-B. - BROADBAND READY COMMUNITY

Sec. 1. - Purpose.
This article is designed and intended to promote Harris County as a proactive county by being a broadband ready community.
( Ord. No. 01-20 , § 1, 1-7-2020)
Sec. 2. - Definitions.
As used in this article, the following terms shall have the meanings indicated:
Broadband network project means any deployment of broadband services.
Harris County means Harris County, Georgia.
Applicant means a person applying for a permit for a broadband network project.
Permit means any local permit, license, certificate approval, registration, or similar form of approval required by policy, administrative rule, regulation, ordinance, or resolution with respect to a broadband network project.
( Ord. No. 01-20 , § 1, 1-7-2020)
Sec. 3. - Single point of contact.
Harris County, Georgia, shall appoint a single point of contact for all matters related to a broadband network project.
(a)
The single point of contact shall be the Community Development Director of the Harris County Community Development Department. The applicable location, phone number and email address can be found on the Harris County website at www.harriscountyga.gov/community-development; and
(b)
The single point of contact shall be available for matters related to a broadband network project or a related liaison who may direct such inquiry in real time, with general scope and responsibilities to including permitting and right-of-way; and
(c)
The single point of contact information must be current to maintain designation, by updating with such change in contact information on web pages and associated sources, within 15 calendar days of change.
( Ord. No. 01-20 , § 1, 1-7-2020)
Sec. 4. - Application completeness review.
(a)
The community development director shall determine whether an application is incomplete and notify the applicant by email of the determination within ten calendar days of receiving the application.
(b)
If the community development director does not respond to the applicant on whether the application is incomplete within ten calendar days, the application shall be assumed to be completed on the 11th day.
( Ord. No. 01-20 , § 1, 1-7-2020)
Sec. 5. - Notification of incomplete application.
(a)
If the community development director determines that an application is incomplete, the notification by email to the applicant shall specify all required components of the submitted application that were considered incomplete.
(b)
The community development director's response shall include a checklist of sequenced items that resulted in the application being deemed incomplete, and the review timeline shall be as follows:
(i)
The applicant has up to 40 calendar days from the date of the notification of incompleteness to respond back with corrections; and
(ii)
If the applicant does not respond back within 40 calendar days, the application is deemed cancelled.
(c)
If within ten calendar days, the community development director does not respond to the applicant on whether the corrected application is incomplete, the application shall be assumed to be complete on the 11th day; and
(d)
The community development director shall require a new submission and reset the process and application fees should an application be deemed incomplete a second time.
( Ord. No. 01-20 , § 1, 1-7-2020)
Sec. 6. - Approval or denial notification.
If on or before the 11th day as described in [section] 4(b), an application is deemed complete, the community development director shall approve or deny an application within ten calendar days unless a joint meeting between the applicant and the community development director is deemed as necessary.
(a)
If a joint meeting is deemed necessary, the joint meeting must occur within 15 calendar days of notification of completion and the joint meeting shall include:
(i)
Where applicant is going to conduct work,
(ii)
When the work will be conducted,
(iii)
What type of work will be done,
(iv)
Who the community development director can contact for specific details or related questions, and
(v)
Any permit seeking approval under application.
(b)
Following a joint meeting between the applicant and the community development director, the director shall deny or approve the application within ten calendar days.
(c)
Upon final approval, any required permit permitted shall be deemed issued.
( Ord. No. 01-20 , § 1, 1-7-2020)
Sec. 7. - Related fees.
(a)
Any fee imposed for the review of an application, issue a permit, or perform any other activity related to a broadband network project shall be reasonable, cost based, and nondiscriminatory to all applicants.
(b)
Any application fee that exceeds $100.00 shall be considered unreasonable unless the community development director can provide documentation justifying such fee based on a specific cost.
( Ord. No. 01-20 , § 1, 1-7-2020)
Sec. 8. - Other information.
(a)
Double fee. The county shall not require an application or permit(s) when already approved by an authorized state or federal jurisdiction. Provider shall notify and provide a copy of the approved permit to the department of community development prior to access of right-of-way within the county's jurisdiction.
(b)
Application validity timeline. Any approved application shall be valid for six months from the date of approval. Should a provider not commence the service request qualified in the approved application within six months, the application shall expire, and it shall require a new permit approval and any associated fees, as applicable.
(c)
Single service drop. The county shall not require a permit for a broadband service provide to perform an installation of a broadband service at an individual customer's service address as long as the facility being utilized only transverses a deminimis portion of the public right-of-way to reach the customer's property. The provide must still comply with the provisions of chapter 9 of title 25 of the O.C.G.A.
( Ord. No. 01-20 , § 1, 1-7-2020)
Sec. 9. - County acknowledgment.
(a)
Harris County acknowledges that a Georgia Certified Broadband Ready Community has an affirmative duty to notify the Georgia Department of Community Affairs of any changes to the information submitted as part of its application; and
(b)
Harris County acknowledges that failure to notify the Georgia Department of Community Affairs of changes may result in the revocation of Harris County's Broadband Ready Certification, should the certification be granted.
( Ord. No. 01-20 , § 1, 1-7-2020)
ARTICLE VII. - EXCEPTIONS AND MODIFICATIONS
The requirements and regulations set forth in this ordinance shall be subject to the following exceptions and modifications.

Sec. 1. - Front yard.
The front yard requirements of this ordinance shall not apply on lots where the average depth of existing front yards on developed lots located within one hundred (100) feet on each side thereof and within the same block and zoning district is greater or less than the minimum required front yard depth. In such case, the depth of the front yard on such lot shall be not less than the average front yard depth on such developed lots.
On double-frontage lots the required front yard shall be provided on each street.
Sec. 2. - Height lines.
Height limitations do not apply to the following: chimneys, church steeples, flagpoles, grain elevators, distribution lines, towers and poles, radio and television antennas, water towers and similar structures.
Sec. 3. - Projections into required yards.
Certain architectural features shall be permitted to project into required yard areas as follows:
1.
Cornices, canopies, eaves or similar features may project a distance not exceeding two and one-half (2.5) feet.
2.
Fire escapes may project a distance not to exceed four (4) feet.
3.
An uncovered stair or landing may project a distance not to exceed three (3) feet.
4.
Bay windows, balconies and chimneys may project a distance not to exceed two (2) feet provided such features do not occupy more than one-third the wall on which they are affixed.
5.
Patios may be located in side and rear yards provided they are not closer than five (5) feet to any adjacent property line.
6.
Fences, walls, and hedges may be located in required yards subject to the following limitations:
a.
They do not exceed eight (8) feet in height.
b.
They do not extend along side lot lines in front yards more than half the depth of required front yards.
c.
They do not impair corner visibility as set forth in this ordinance.
Sec. 4. - Temporary uses. (See Definitions)
Temporary buildings used in conjunction with construction work may only be permitted thirty (30) days prior to the construction work. Such temporary buildings shall be removed no later than fifteen (15) days upon completion of the construction work. Manufacturing housing units may be permitted in any zone, if a natural disaster has occurred. This use is permitted for only thirty (30) days and then shall require the additional approval for a time extension of thirty (30) days from the zoning board of adjustments.
Sec. 5. - Existing lots of record.
Any lot or parcel of land in any district which was on record in the Office of the Clerk of the Superior Court of Harris County at the date of adoption of this ordinance [January 4, 1994], or amendment thereof, which does not adjoin undeveloped land (or land which has been subdivided but a building permit has not been issued for the site), under the same ownership may be used as a building site even though such lot or parcel fails to meet the minimum requirements for lot area, lot width or both. With respect to such lots or parcels, yard requirements and other requirements shall be subject to the following:
1.
Meet applicable setback requirements.
2.
Not to exceed the maximum lot coverage requirements.
3.
Must have an approved on-site sewage permit from the Harris County Board of Health.
(Ord. No. 1-93C, 10-5-93; Ord. No. 1-94A, 1-4-94)
ARTICLE VIII. - ADMINISTRATION AND ENFORCEMENT

Sec. 1. - Enforcing officer.
The provisions of this ordinance shall be administered and enforced by the county inspector. This official shall have the right to enter upon any premises at any reasonable time prior to the issuance of certificate of occupancy for the purpose of making inspections of buildings or premises necessary in carrying out his duties in the enforcement of this ordinance.
Sec. 2. - Building permit required.
It shall be unlawful to commence the excavation for or the construction of any building or other structure, including accessory structures, but not including accessory structures eight hundred (800) square feet or less and located in A-1, R-1 and R-2 districts, or to store building materials or erect temporary field offices, or to commence the moving, alteration, or repair (except necessary repairs, not affecting the external or party walls, chimneys, stairways or heights of the buildings) of any structure, including accessory structures, until the building inspector has issued for such work a building permit including a statement that the plans, specifications and intended use of such structure in all respects conform with the provisions of this ordinance. Application for a building permit shall be made to the building inspector on forms provided for that purpose.
(Ord. No. 02-99, 7-6-99)
Sec. 3. - Approval of plans and issuance of building permit.
It shall be unlawful for the building inspector to approve any plans or issue a building permit for any excavation or construction until he has inspected such plans in detail and found them in conformity with this ordinance. To this end, the building inspector shall require that every application for a building permit for excavation, construction, use of land, moving or alteration be accompanied by a plan or plat drawn to scale and showing the following in sufficient detail to enable the building inspector to ascertain whether the proposed excavation, construction, use of land, moving or alteration is in conformance with this ordinance, and applicable building codes.
a.
The actual shape, proportion and dimensions of the lot to be built upon.
b.
The shape, size, and location of all buildings or other structures to be erected, altered or moved and any building or other structures already on the lot.
c.
The existing and intended use of all such buildings or other structures.
d.
The setback and side lines of buildings on adjoining lots and such other information concerning the lot or adjoining lots as may be essential for determining whether the provisions of this ordinance are being observed.
e.
Must have certificate from health department that property will conform to all health standards.
If the proposed excavation, construction, moving or alteration as set forth in the application, are in conformity with the provisions of this ordinance and other related laws and ordinances, the building inspector shall issue a building permit accordingly. If an application for a building permit is not approved, the building inspector shall state in writing on the application the cause of such disapproval. Issuance of a building permit shall, in no case, be construed as waiving any provision of this ordinance.
(Ord. No. 5-95, 5-2-95; Ord. No. 10-98, 8-4-98)
Sec. 4. - Expiration of building permit.
If the work described in any building permit has not begun within six (6) months from the date of issuance thereof, said permit shall expire.
Sec. 5. - Certificate of occupancy required.
No land or building or other structure or part thereof hereafter erected, moved or altered in its use shall be used until the county inspector/building official has issued a certificate of occupancy stating that such land or structure or part thereof is found to be in conformity with the provisions of this ordinance.
Within three (3) days after the owner or his agent has notified the county inspector/building official that a building or premises or part thereof is ready for occupancy or use, it shall be the duty of the building inspector to make a final inspection thereof, and to issue a certificate of occupancy if the building or premises or part thereof is found to conform with the provisions of this ordinance, or if such certificate is refused, to state the refusal in writing with the cause.
Sec. 6. - Penalties for violation of zoning ordinance.
Any person, firm, or corporation who violates any provision of the Zoning Ordinance of Harris County, Georgia, shall be guilty of a misdemeanor, and upon conviction in the magistrate court of this county, shall be fined an amount not to exceed one thousand dollars ($1,000.00) or imprisoned up to sixty (60) days or both for each violation. Each day such violation continues shall constitute a separate offense and shall subject such person, firm, or corporation to a fine or incarceration specified by this section for each such offense.
Ordinance violations may be tried in the Magistrate Court in Harris County, Georgia, upon citation issued by the county inspector or his designated agent.
Each citation shall state the time and place at which the accused violator is to appear for trial, shall identify the violation with which the accused is charged, shall have an identifying number by which it shall be filed with the court, shall indicate the identity of the accused and the date of service, and shall be signed by the county inspector or his designated agent who shall complete and serve the citation.
Prosecutions for violations of this ordinance in accordance with this section shall be commenced by the completion, signing and service of the citation by the county inspector or his designated agent either of whom is authorized by this ordinance to issue citations. The original of the citation shall be personally served upon the accused, and a copy shall be promptly filed with the magistrate court.
No person shall be arrested prior to the time of trial for violations under this section, but any person who fails to appear at trial shall be arrested thereafter on a warrant of the magistrate and required to post a bond for his future appearance.
(Ord. No. 10-98, 8-4-98)
Sec. 7. - Remedies.
In case any building or other structure is erected, constructed, reconstructed, altered, repaired, converted, or maintained, or any building, structure or land is used in violation of this ordinance, the county inspector or any other appropriate authority or any adjacent or neighboring property owner who would be specifically damaged by such violation, in addition to other remedies, may institute injunction, mandamus, or other appropriate action or proceeding to prevent such unlawful erection, construction, reconstruction, alteration, repair, conversion, maintenance or use, to correct or abate such violation or to prevent occupancy of such building, structure or land.
ARTICLE IX. - BOARD OF ZONING ADJUSTMENT
A board of zoning adjustment is hereby established.

Sec. 1. - Appointment.
The board of zoning adjustment shall consist of five (5) members each to be appointed by the governing authority or authorities of area served for a term of three (3) years, with staggered terms. Any vacancy in the membership shall be filled for the unexpired term in the same manner as the initial appointment and members are removable by cause by the appointing authority upon written charges and after a public hearing. A new chairman shall be elected annually by the membership of the board.
Sec. 2. - Meetings.
Meetings of the board of zoning adjustment shall be held at the call of the chairman and at such other times as the board may determine. Such chairman, or in his absence, an acting chairman, may administer oaths and compel attendance of witnesses. All called meetings shall be open to the public. The board shall keep minutes and records of its proceedings which shall be open to the public.
Sec. 3. - Appeals.
Appeals to the board of zoning adjustment may be taken by any person aggrieved or by any officer, department, board or bureau affected by the decision of the administrative office of this ordinance. Such appeal shall be filed thirty (30) days in advance in writing with the board of zoning adjustment stating the grounds thereof. The enforcing officer shall transmit to the board all papers constituting the record upon which the action appealed was taken.
The board of zoning adjustment shall establish a reasonable time for hearing of any appeals authorized under this section and shall give at least fifteen (15) days' notice of such hearing by publishing the time, date, and location of the public hearing within the newspaper of general circulation within the county in which are carried the legal advertisements of the county. The board shall give written notice by regular mail to the owners, as shown by Harris County tax records, of property that abuts the property on which an appeal is filed, and shall give written notice by regular mail to all parties who are prosecuting the appeal. Such written notice shall include a description of the appeal and the time, date and location of the public hearing. All written notices required by this section shall be effective upon depositing such notice with the U.S. Postal Service with sufficient postage affixed thereto.
Upon the hearing any party may appear in person or by agent or attorney.
(Ord. No. 5-95, 5-2-95)
Sec. 4. - Powers.
The board of zoning adjustment shall have the following powers:
1.
To hear and decide appeals where it is alleged there is an error in order, requirement, decision or determination made by an administrative official in the enforcement of this ordinance or of any ordinance adopted pursuant thereto.
2.
In the case of manufactured housing units in place at the time of adoption of this ordinance, to hear and decide variances for the alteration or enlargement of nonconforming structures. This power shall not be exercised in conflict of article VI, section 3 of this ordinance.
3.
To hear and decide variances from the district regulations where by reason of exceptional narrowness, shallowness, or shape of a specific piece of property or where by reason of exceptional topographic conditions or other extraordinary or exceptional conditions of a piece of property, the strict application of the district regulations would result in practical difficulties to, or undue hardship upon, the owner of the property, provided that this relief may be granted without substantially impairing the intent and purpose of the zoning ordinances. In granting a variance, the board may attach such conditions regarding the location, character and other features of a proposed building or structure as it may deem advisable to the purpose of the zoning ordinance will be served and the public health, safety and welfare secured. The board shall not have authority to grant a variance of the use or density requirements of the zoning district relating to the property for which a variance is requested.
4.
The board of zoning adjustment does not have the power to rezone. Rezoning is purely a function of the governing authority.
5.
The owner of the property or his designated agent may apply for a permit based upon the granting of a variance, subject to all conditions imposed, for a period of six (6) months from the date of the decision of the board of zoning adjustment. If no permit is obtained before the expiration of the six (6) months, the decision of the board shall be of no force and effect. Resubmission of the appeal shall be made in accordance with section 3 of this article.
In exercising the above-mentioned powers, the board of zoning adjustment may reverse or affirm, wholly or partly, or may modify the order, requirement, decision or determination as ought to be made, and to that end shall have the powers of the officer from whom the appeal is taken. The concurring vote of three (3) members of the board shall be necessary to reverse any order, requirements, decision or determination of any such administrative official, or to decide in favor of the applicant on any matter upon which it is required to pass under this ordinance, or to effect any variance to the requirement of this ordinance. The board of zoning adjustment shall not be required to return the original papers acted upon by it, but it shall be sufficient to return certified or sworn copies thereof or of such portions thereof as may be called on by such writ. The return shall concisely set forth such other facts as may be pertinent and material to show the grounds of the decision appealed from and shall be verified.
Sec. 5. - Appeals from board of zoning adjustment decision.
Any party aggrieved by any final judgment or decision of such board of zoning adjustment, may within fifteen (15) days thereafter appeal therefrom of the superior court or court of like jurisdiction, by filing with such board a written notice of appeal specifying the judgment or decision from which appeal is taken. In case of such appeal such board shall cause a transcript of the proceedings in the case to be certified to the court to which the appeal is taken and the case in such court to be tried de novo.
ARTICLE X. - AMENDMENTS AND ALTERATIONS

Sec. 1. - Amendments.
Sec. 1(a). Definitions of Amendments; Who May Request an Amendment; and Frequency of Amendments:
"Amendment" as used in this section means a change in the text of the zoning ordinance or a change in the official zoning maps of the county authorized by a zoning decision made only after compliance with the procedures set forth in this section.
(1)
An amendment to the text may be made by the board of commissioners. A proposed amendment to the text may be initiated by the planning commission or by any person who owns property within the zoning jurisdiction of the county. Unless initiated by the board of commissioners or by the planning commission, all proposed map amendments shall be submitted by the owner of such property or the authorized agent of the owner. An authorized agent shall have written authorization from the property owner, and such authorization shall be notarized and attached to the application.
(2)
A proposed amendment to the zoning map affecting the same property shall not be submitted more than once every twenty-four (24) months, regardless of final zoning decision, said interval shall begin with the date of final decision by the board of commissioners. The board of commissioners may, in its discretion, reduce or waive the twenty-four-month interval between applications for proposed amendments to the zoning map affecting the same property. However, there shall be at least a six-month interval between the date of the board of commissioners' final action on the original application and a subsequent application affecting the same property. The twenty-four-month interval shall not apply to applications for proposed amendments initiated by the board of commissioners or by the planning commission, in which case the interval required before a subsequent application may be filed shall be at least six (6) months. An application to amend zoning conditions may be submitted at any time.
Sec. 1(b). Initiation of Amendments:
Each proposed amendment to the text or to the official zoning map shall be initiated by filing an application with the building inspection and zoning department. Applications for proposed amendments shall include at least the following information, in addition to any other information required by the building inspection and zoning department:
(1)
Applications for proposed amendments to the text shall include the following information:
a.
Name and address of the applicant;
b.
Current provisions of the text to be affected by the proposed amendment;
c.
Proposed wording of the proposed amendment to the text; and
d.
Reason for proposed amendment.
(2)
Applications for proposed amendments to the zoning maps shall include the following:
a.
Name and address of the applicant;
b.
A legal description of the tract(s) proposed to be rezoned.
c.
Three (3) copies of a plat, drawn to scale, showing north arrow, land lot and district, the dimensions, acreage and location of the tract(s) prepared by an engineer, or land surveyor, whose state registration is current and valid. The architect's or land surveyor's seal shall be affixed to the plat.
d.
The present and proposed zoning district for the tract(s).
e.
Existing intermediate regional floodplain and structures.
f.
The names and addresses of the owner(s) of the land and of the agent(s) for the owner(s), if any.
(3)
Conceptual site plan requirements for rezoning: Any applicant seeking rezoning of property to the following districts of Harris County, Georgia (A/O, C-1, C-3, C-4, M-1 or M-2) or seeking rezoning for any property for residential development (one hundred (100) acres or more in A-1, R-R, and R-1 and any request in R-2 or R-3) shall submit a conceptual site plan, with the application for rezoning, depicting the proposed use of the property including:
a.
Vicinity map.
b.
Delineation and dimensions of the boundary of the proposed district.
c.
The present zoning classification of all adjacent property.
d.
A conceptual lot layout with lot sizes along with a conceptual street layout.
e.
Required yard setbacks appropriately dimensioned.
f.
For C-1, C-3, C-4, M-1 or M-2 rezonings, a conceptual building site layout depicting the proposed building(s) location.
g.
The proposed location of ingress/egress points into the proposed development. For all property which ingress and egress must be obtained by access from a road within the state highway system, a letter giving preliminary approval of the access(es) location(s).
h.
The location of all required off-street parking and loading areas; off street parking for individual, single-family residences is not required to be shown.
i.
The location and extent of required buffer areas, depicting extent of natural vegetation and type and location of additional vegetation, if required.
j.
Location and width of all easements.
k.
Provisions for the supply of water and sewage to and throughout the development.
l.
Date, north arrow, scale, property owner and/or developer and address.
Minor changes in the approved conceptual plan may be authorized by the zoning official, provided such changes do not go beyond the minimum or maximum requirements of the plan or of this ordinance.
(4)
Applications for proposed amendments shall be submitted in accordance with a schedule adopted annually by the board of commissioners. Said schedule shall provide that each application for a proposed amendment shall be submitted at least fifty (50) days prior to the date on which it is to be considered by the board of commissioners as related to the zoning district requested and the size of the property affected. A fee shall not be charged for proposed amendments initiated by members of the board of commissioners or by members of the planning commission.
(5)
An applicant shall not be permitted to withdraw an application for a proposed amendment after the legal advertising for said proposed amendment, as required by this article, shall have first appeared, unless such withdrawal is made with the approval of the board of commissioners as provided in section 1(f)2.
(6)
An applicant may file site plans, renderings, construction specifications, written development restrictions and other zoning conditions which the applicant proposes as binding restrictions upon the development and use of the property that is the subject of the proposed amendment. However, any such zoning conditions shall be filed with the building inspection and zoning department at least seven (7) days prior to the public hearing before the board of commissioners. If any such zoning conditions are proposed by an applicant and have not been filed as required by this subsection, the board of commissioners, at the time of the public hearing on the proposed amendment, shall defer any action on such action on such proposed amendment to a specific meeting date. The date designated for action on the proposed amendment shall be set at a time which is sufficient to allow the applicant to comply with the filing requirements of this subsection.
Section 1(c). Public Notification:
(a)
Legal notice: Notice of public hearings before the planning commission and the board of commissioners as required by this section shall be published within a newspaper of general circulation within the county and shall state the time, place and purpose of the hearing and shall also include the location of property that is the subject of the zoning action, the present zoning district of said property, and the proposed zoning district of said property. Such notice shall be published at least fifteen (15) but not more than forty-five (45) days prior to the date of the hearing.
(b)
Signs posted. When an application has been made for a proposed amendment to the zoning maps, the applicant shall post signs on the subject property as follows:
1)
Said sign shall be located on private property at or near the margin of the public right-of-way upon which said property abuts or depends upon for access.
2)
The signs shall be placed on the property at five hundred (500) foot intervals. If the property in question has a five hundred (500) foot or less frontage, only one (1) sign is required. If the property fronts on more than one (1) public right-of-way, one (1) sign shall be required for each right-of-way.
3)
The sign shall read as follows:
NOTICE TO REZONE
EXPAND
Name of Applicant
or Owner: Present Zoning
Address: Proposed Zoning
Telephone: Proposed Use of Property:
  Date and Time of Planning Commission Hearing:
Location:
Date and Time of Board of Commissioners Hearing:
Additional Information: Harris County Department of Community Development, 628-4700
4)
Said sign shall be of wood, metal, or plastic, with minimum dimensions of forty-eight (48) inches vertical by ninety-six (96) inches horizontal in size, and the lettering thereon shall be black letters on a white background and the letters shall be at least three (3) inches in height.
5)
The applicant shall notify the department of community development in writing no less than fifteen (15) days prior to the first scheduled public hearing that the sign(s) has been erected and where it is located. Failure to do so may require the public hearing be rescheduled.
6)
The sign(s) shall contain no additional advertisement or words other than those specified herein.
7)
The sign(s) shall remain posted until final action has been taken by the board of commissioners. The sign(s) shall be removed by the applicant within ten (10) days after final action by the board of commissioners.
(c)
Letters to Abutting Property Owners:Where application is made for a proposed amendment to the zoning maps, the building inspection and zoning department shall notify, by regular mail, the owners, as shown by Harris County tax records, of property that abuts the property that is the subject of the proposed amendment. Such notice shall be mailed at least fifteen (15) days prior to the date of the planning commission public hearing and shall include a description of the proposed amendment and the dates, times, and places of the public hearings before the planning commission and the board of commissioners.
Section 1(d). Public Hearing Procedures:
Whenever a public hearing is required by these ordinances or by state law prior to a zoning decision, such public hearing, whether conducted by the board of commissioners or the planning commission, shall be conducted in accordance with the following procedures:
1)
The public hearing shall be called to order by the presiding officer.
2)
The presiding officer shall explain the procedures to be followed in the conduct of the public hearing.
3)
If the subject of the hearing is a zoning decision initiated by a petitioner other than the board of commissioners; the petitioner requesting such zoning decision, or the petitioner's agent, shall be recognized first and shall be permitted to present and explain the request for the zoning decision. If the request for a zoning decision is initiated by the board of commissioners, all members of the board of commissioners shall be allowed to speak as they are recognized by the presiding officer, regardless of whether such board member speaks in favor of or in opposition to the proposed zoning decision. Thereafter, all individuals who so desire shall be permitted to speak in favor of the zoning decision.
4)
After all individuals have had an opportunity to speak in accordance with paragraph 3) above, those individuals present at the public hearing who wish to speak in opposition to the requested zoning decision shall have an opportunity to speak.
5)
When any person wishes to speak at a public hearing, he shall raise his hand and, after being recognized by the presiding officer, shall stand and give his name, address, and make any comment appropriate to the proposed zoning decision.
6)
No time limit shall be imposed upon any person speaking at a public hearing, but all speakers are urged to make their comments brief and avoid repeating other comments.
7)
In the case of an application for a proposed amendment to the zoning ordinance text or maps, the applicant shall have an opportunity, after all comments in opposition have been made, to make summary remarks concerning the proposed zoning decision.
8)
Thereafter, the presiding officer shall announce that the public hearing for the requested zoning decision is closed. The planning commission shall then convene its business session to consider the proposed amendment and shall, at that time, take action on its recommendation to the board of commissioners. At the close of the public hearing before the board of commissioners, the board shall immediately convene its business session and consider the recommendation for the zoning decision and take action on the proposed amendment.
Section 1(e). Planning Commission Public Hearing and Action:
1)
All applications for proposed amendments shall be reviewed by the planning commission in a public hearing in accordance with the procedures set forth in section 1(d).
2)
The planning commission shall review and consider a recommendation to the board of commissioners with respect to the application for a proposed amendment. The planning commission may decide not to make a recommendation, or it may make any of the following recommendations with respect to an application for a proposed amendment: approval, denial, deferral, withdrawal, reduction of the land area for which the application is made, change of the zoning district requested, or imposition of zoning conditions. If no recommendation is decided by the planning commission, then it shall report to the board of commissioners that it makes no recommendation on the application.
3)
The planning commission shall submit its recommendation or report of no recommendation on an application for a proposed amendment to the board of commissioners prior to the scheduled public hearing in which the board of commissioners will consider the application for a zoning decision. If the planning commission fails to submit a recommendation or report prior to the public hearing, the planning commission's recommendation shall be deemed to be one of approval.
Section 1(f). Board of Commissioners Public Hearing and Action:
(1)
Before taking action on a proposed amendment and after the receipt of the planning commission recommendations or reports thereon, if applicable, the board of commissioners shall hold a public hearing on the proposed amendment.
(2)
So that the purpose of this zoning ordinance will be served and so that health, public safety and general welfare will be secured, the board of commissioners in its decision on the application for a proposed amendment may, in its legislative discretion, approve or deny the application for proposed amendment as submitted, defer a decision until a specific meeting date, require applicant to file a site plan or other plans regarding the project development and defer action to a later meeting date, or allow a withdrawal of the application by the applicant, if requested. The board of commissioners shall determine whether the withdrawal shall be subject to the twenty-four-month interval before refiling. The board of commissioners may also require that the land area for such application for proposed amendment is made be reduced, that the zoning district be change[d] to one other than that requested, or that zoning conditions be added or deleted, as the board deems appropriate.
Section 1(g). Zoning Standards:
Whenever this county shall exercise its zoning power, the following standards are considered relevant in balancing the county's interest in promoting the public health, safety, morality, or general welfare against the right to the unrestricted use of property:
a)
Whether the zoning decision will permit a use that is suitable in view of the use and development of adjacent or nearby property;
b)
Whether the zoning decision will adversely affect the existing use of adjacent or nearby property;
c)
Whether the property affected by the zoning decision has a reasonable economic use as currently zoned;
d)
Whether the zoning decision will result in a use which will or could cause an excessive or burdensome use of existing streets, transportation facilities, utilities, or schools;
e)
Whether the zoning decision conforms with the policy and intent of an adopted land use plan; and
f)
Whether other conditions exist that affect the use and development of the property in question and support either approval or denial of the zoning decision.
(Ord. No. 1-96B, 5-7-96; Ord. No. 03-00, 5-2-2000; Ord. No. 01-01, 1-16-2001; Ord. No. 03-01, 3-20-2001; Ord. No. 01-02, 3-5-2002)
Sec. 2. - Alteration of zoning conditions.
Section 2(a). Minor Alterations Approval:
The county inspector shall have the authority to approve the following minor alterations of zoning conditions provided such alterations would not change the purpose intended for such zoning condition and would not adversely affect county services or other property.
(1)
Building relocation, curb cut relocation and traffic circulation changes due to topographic, environmental or other design factors;
(2)
Parking design; and
(3)
Utility relocation.
Section 2(b). Amendments of Zoning Conditions:
An owner of property or his authorized agent may file an application to amend any zoning conditions which have been made a part of a zoning decision by the board of commissioners if such changes requested cannot be effected under the provisions of section 2(a). Such application shall be processed in accordance with the same procedures as those required for applications for proposed amendments to the zoning maps as provided in section I[1] of this article.
Sec. 3. - Fees.
Fees for appeals and applications for amendments to the (this) Ordinance shall be in accordance with the current schedule approved by the Harris County Board of Commissioners for the department of community development and shall be payable by an individual prior to action by the department of community development to initiate the proceeding so requested.
(Ord. No. 6-97, 9-2-97)
Sec. 4. - Legal status.
4.1. Interpretation:
In the interpretation and application of the zoning ordinances of Harris County, Georgia, the provisions shall be considered minimum requirements adopted for the promotion of the public health, safety, morals, and general welfare of the citizens of Harris County. Where the provisions of this ordinance require or impose more restrictive standards than are required by any other ordinance or law, the provisions of this ordinance shall control. Where the provisions of any other ordinance or law require more restrictive standards than are required by this ordinance, the provisions of such other ordinance or law shall control.
4.2. Saving Clause:
If any section, clause, provision, or portion of this ordinance shall be held to be invalid or unconstitutional by any court of competent jurisdiction, such holding shall not affect any other section, clause, provision, or portion of this ordinance which is not in and of itself invalid or unconstitutional.
4.3. Repeal of Conflicting Ordinances:
All ordinances or parts of any ordinance in conflict with any of the provisions of the Zoning Ordinance of Harris County, Georgia are hereby repealed.
