ARTICLE IX. - FINAL PLAT PROCEDURE

Sec. 901. - Application for final plat approval.
After the preliminary plat of a proposed land subdivision has been given tentative approval by the planning commission, the subdivider may, within the period specified for preliminary plat approval, submit to the department of community development, at least fifteen (15) days prior to the next regular meeting of the planning commission, the following:
a.
A letter requesting review and approval of a final plat and giving the name and address of the person to whom the notice of the hearing by the planning commission on the final plat shall be sent.
b.
Thirteen (13) copies and two (2) signed originals of the final plat an other related documents, as specified in article X.
For final plats which do not require preliminary plat review, the subdivider must submit to the department of community development, at least twenty-five (25) days prior to the next regular meeting of the planning commission, all items required above.
c.
A fee in accordance with the current schedule approved by the Harris County Board of Commissioners for the department of community development.
(Ord. No. 7-97, 9-2-97; Ord. No. 05-01, 8-21-2001)
Sec. 902. - Review of final plat.
The planning commission shall check the final plat for conformance with the tentatively approved preliminary plat, and with the rules and regulations of this resolution, and shall afford a hearing on the final plat, notice of the time and place of which shall be sent by the planning commission or its agent by regular mail to the person designated in the letter requesting final plat review and approval, not less than ten (10) days prior to the date of the hearing.
Thereafter, the planning commission shall approve or disapprove the final plat. A notation of the action shall be made on all copies of the final plat, including a statement of the reasons if the Final Plat is disapproved. If action is not taken by the planning commission within sixty-five (65) days of the date of the public hearing, the final plat shall be considered approved and a certificate of approval shall be issued on demand. However, the applicant for approval may waive this requirement and consent to an extension of time.
Sec. 903. - Recording of final plat.
Upon approval of the final plat, it shall be recorded in the office of the Clerk of Superior Court of Harris County. The owner or applicant shall be responsible for the recording of such final plat in the office of the clerk of superior court.
