ARTICLE XVII. - VARIANCES AND WAIVERS

Sec. 1701. - [Variances authorized.]
Where the planning commission finds that extraordinary and unnecessary hardships may result from strict compliance with these regulations, it may vary the regulations so that substantial justice may be done and the public interest secured; provided that such variations will not have the effect of nullifying the intent and purpose of the official map, the master plan, or the zoning resolution, if any or all of such exists.
Cross reference— Zoning, app. A.
Sec. 1702. - [Waivers authorized.]
Where the planning commission finds that, due to the special circumstances of a particular plat, the provision of certain required improvements is not requisite in the interest of the public health, safety and general welfare or is inappropriate because of inadequacy or lack of connection facilities adjacent or in proximity to the proposed subdivision, it may waive such requirements subject to appropriate conditions.
Sec. 1703. - [Conditions.]
In granting variances and modifications, the planning commission shall require such conditions as will, in its judgment, secure substantially the objectives of the standards or requirements so varied or modified.
Sec. 1704. - Dividing property among immediate family and heirs.
a.
Immediate family. The Harris County Planning and Zoning Administrator shall have the authority to waive the Harris County Subdivision Regulations for special circumstances involving the subdividing of parcels of land to permit the subdivision of land on a private easement road set forth in Section 1210 of this Appendix wherein property is divided and transferred by gift from a property owner to members of his immediate family for the specific purpose of building a permanent residence for the donee family member. This authorization shall be limited solely to a property given to a landowner's immediate family which shall consist of spouse, children, grandchildren, parents, grandparents, siblings, nieces and nephews. The number of subdivided lots shall not exceed six (6) and must have a minimum lot size of five (5) acres; provided, further, a subdivision of land among family on a private easement road as provided for herein shall not constitute a major subdivision as defined in Section 301, n, Subdivision, major, of Article III. Definitions of Certain Terms Used in Subdivision Regulations, but shall be deemed to be a minor subdivision as defined in Section 301, o, Subdivision, minor. The subdivided lots shall not be for resale or for speculation upon completion of a dwelling and shall not be subdivided again for a period of five (5) years. In the event that the request for subdivision among family members is disapproved by the planning and zoning administrator, the decision denying such may be appealed to the Harris County Planning Commission within thirty (30) days of the denial. Any request for more than six (6) lots shall be reviewed by the planning and zoning administrator and then submitted to the Harris County Planning Commission with comments and recommendations for final determination.
b.
Heirs. The Harris County Planning and Zoning Administrator shall have the authority to waive the Harris County Subdivision Regulations under special circumstances of a particular plat involving the subdividing of parcels of land where probated personal Last Wills and Testaments dictate the dividing of property among heirs. In special circumstances of this nature, there shall be no more than one dwelling house on a five (5) acre or less parcel of land and no more than six (6) parcels may front on a private easement road. In the event that the request for subdivision among heirs is disapproved by the planning and zoning administrator, the decision denying such may be appealed to the Harris County Planning Commission within thirty (30) days of the denial. Any request for more than six (6) lots shall be reviewed by the planning and zoning administrator and then submitted to the Harris County Planning Commission with comments and recommendations for final determination.
(Ord. No. 06-04, § 3, 10-5-2004)
Sec. 1705. - Easement waivers.
The Harris County Planning and Zoning Administrator shall have the authority to approve subdivision of property on an easement as provided for in Section 1209 of this Appendix where the creation of an easement is for the purpose of property division among family members (i.e. for property distribution to heirs through estate settlement). This section is intended to provide flexibility in preventing the creation of land locked properties situations where property is distributed among family members and not with the intention to provide an exemption to the requirement that all property front on public roads and not with the intention to provide an exemption to facilitate commercial subdivision development on private easement roads. In the event that the request for subdivision among family members is disapproved by the planning and zoning administrator, the decision denying such may be appealed to the Harris County Planning Commission within thirty (30) days of the denial.
(Ord. No. 4-92, 12-15-92; Ord. No. 06-04, § 4, 10-5-2004)
Sec. 1706. - [Notice.]
Owners of properties abutting any property under consideration for a variance to the subdivision regulations shall be notified, by regular mail at the owner's address as shown by the Harris County Tax Records, of the proposed variance. Such notice shall be mailed at least fifteen (15) days prior to the scheduled hearing of the variance request.
(Ord. No. 9-97, 11-4-97)
