ARTICLE IV. - PLATTING, JURISDICTION, ENFORCEMENT

Sec. 401. - Platting authority.
From and after the passage of this resolution [January 2, 1990], the planning commission shall be the official platting authority, and no plat of land subdivision shall be entitled to record in the office of the Clerk of Superior Court of Harris County unless it shall have the approval of the planning commission inscribed thereon. The filing or recording of a plat of a subdivision without the approval of the planning commission as required by this resolution is declared to be a misdemeanor.
Sec. 402. - Use of a plat.
The transfer of, sale of, agreement to sell, or negotiation to sell land by reference to or exhibition of, or other use of a plat of a subdivision that has not been given final approval by the planning commission and recorded in the office of the Clerk of Superior Court of Harris County is prohibited, and the description by metes and bounds in the instrument of transfer or other document shall not exempt the transaction from penalties.
Sec. 403. - Plat approval.
After this resolution shall have been put into effect, any subdivision that fails to meet the requirements of this resolution shall be disapproved by the planning commission.
Sec. 404. - Acceptance of streets.
No public authority shall accept, improve or maintain any street not shown on an approved and recorded final plat unless such street shall have received the legal status of a public street prior to the adoption of this resolution [January 2, 1990].
Sec. 405. - Building permits and erection of buildings.
No building permit shall be issued and no building shall be erected on any lot in the unincorporated portion of Harris County unless the street giving access thereto has been accepted as a public street in accordance with this resolution, or unless such street had attained the status of a public street prior to the effective date of this resolution [January 3, 1990]. Any building erected in violation of these provisions is an unlawful structure; and the building inspector, county attorney or other agent of the county shall enjoin such erection or cause the building to be vacated or moved.
