Chapter 8 - BUSINESSES[1]
modified

Footnotes:
--- (1) ---
State Law reference— Business and occupation taxes, O.C.G.A. § 48-13-5 et seq.

Sec. 8-1. - Occupation tax required.
Each person engaged in any business, trade, profession or occupation in the county, whether with a location in the county, or, in the case of an out-of-state business, with no location in the state, exerting substantial efforts within the state pursuant to O.C.G.A. § 48-13-7, shall pay an occupation tax for such business, trade, profession or occupation, which tax and any applicable registration shall be displayed in a conspicuous place in the place of business, if the taxpayer has a permanent business location in the county. If the taxpayer has no permanent business location in the county, such business tax registration shall be shown to the zoning administrator or his deputies, or to any sheriff's deputy upon his request.
(Code 2000, § 18-31; Ord. of 11-1-1999, § 1)
Sec. 8-2. - Definitions.
modified
The following words, terms and phrases, when used in this chapter, shall have the meanings ascribed to them in this section, except where the context clearly indicates a different meaning:
Administrative fee means a component of an occupational tax that approximates the reasonable cost of handling and processing the occupation tax.
Dominant line means the type of business, within a multiple-line business, from which the greatest amount of income is derived.
Location or office shall not include a temporary worksite that serves a single customer or project.
Occupation tax means a tax levied on persons, partnerships, corporations or other entities for engaging in an occupation, profession or business for revenue-raising purposes.
Person shall be held to include sole proprietors, corporations, partnerships, nonprofits, or any other form of business organization, but specifically excludes charitable nonprofit organizations which utilize 50 percent of their proceeds for charitable purposes.
Practitioner of profession or occupation means one who by state law requires state licensure regulating such profession or occupation. The term "practitioner of profession or occupation" does not include a practitioner who is an employee of a business if the business pays an occupation tax.
Regulatory fees means payments, whether designated a license fee, permit fee or by another name, which are required by a local government as an exercise of its police power and as a part of or as an aid to regulation of an occupation, profession or business. The amount of a regulatory fee shall approximate the reasonable cost of the actual regulatory activity performed by the county. A regulatory fee may not include an administrative fee. Development impact fees as defined by O.C.G.A. § 36-71-2(8) or other costs or conditions of zoning or land development are not regulatory fees.
(Code 2000, § 18-32; Ord. of 11-1-1999, § 2)
Sec. 8-3. - Administrative and regulatory fee structure; occupation tax structure.
(a)
A non-prorated, nonrefundable administrative fee shall be required on all business occupation tax accounts for the initial startup or reopening of those accounts. Occupational tax accounts not renewed prior to January 31 of any year will be required to pay the administrative fee to reopen the account. The amount of the administrative fee shall be as established by the board of commissioners from time to time.
(b)
A regulatory fee will be imposed as provided under O.C.G.A. § 48-13-9 on those applicable businesses. A regulatory fee may not include an administrative fee.
(c)
If a business or individual initially engages in an activity regulated by the county on or after July 1 in any year, the regulatory fee for the remaining portion of the year shall be 50 percent of the regulatory fee for the entire year.
(d)
Every business, individual, and location subject to payment of a regulatory fee levied by this chapter shall display a current regulatory certificate in a conspicuous place at the location for which such certificate was issued. If the taxpayer does not have a permanent location within the county, the regulatory fee certificate or an unaltered duplicate of such certificate shall be shown to any sheriff's deputy upon request.
(e)
The regulatory fee schedule for persons in the below-listed occupations and professions shall be as established by the board of county commissioners, from time to time.
EXPAND
Fortuneteller:
Operating in own home
Transient
Circus or carnival, per week
Vending machines for merchandise (excluding postage stamps)
First 50, per machine
After 50 machines, per machine
Game machines and pool tables
First 50, per machine
After 50 machines, per machine
Itinerants of every kind, including vendors of books and maps, pictures, toys and other articles, and including all persons selling any articles of any kind on the street or from house to house
Itinerants of the kind who go from place to place repairing roofs, and painters and/or dealers in stone, marble, granite or any other article of merchandise not otherwise provided for
  (Code 2000, § 18-33; Ord. of 11-1-1999, § 3)
Sec. 8-4. - Occupation tax levied; restrictions.
(a)
An occupation tax shall be levied upon those businesses and practitioners of professions and occupations with one or more locations or offices within the unincorporated areas of the county and upon the applicable out-of-state businesses with no location or office in the state pursuant to O.C.G.A. § 48-13-7, and upon out-of-state businesses with no location or office in the county but with employees or agents engaging in substantial efforts to solicit business or serve customers or clients in the state in accordance with the following schedule:
EXPAND
Number of Employees Occupational Tax
0—5 $   50.00
6—10   150.00
11—20   250.00
21—50   500.00
51—100   750.00
101—200  1,200.00
201—300  1,500.00
301—400  2,000.00
401 and up  2,500.00
  (b)
A business or practitioner subject to an occupation tax by another local government and claiming an exemption from or limitation to the occupation tax imposed by this chapter shall submit documentation as to current payment of the occupation tax to the other local government and the basis of such tax.
(1)
If a business or practitioner with no location or office in the state provides to the county proof of payment of a local business or occupation tax in another state which purports to tax the business' or practitioner's sales or services in this state, then the business or practitioner shall be exempt from the occupation tax levied in this section.
(2)
A business or practitioner with no location or office in the state shall only be required to pay occupation tax to the local government in the state where the largest dollar volume of business is done or service is performed by such business or practitioner. This limitation shall only apply when the business or practitioner has provided to the county satisfactory proof as to the applicability of this subsection.
(3)
A business or practitioner which has locations in the state subject to occupation tax by more than one local government in the state shall only be subject to occupation tax by the county for the number of employees who are employed within unincorporated areas of the county. This limitation shall only apply when the business or practitioner has provided to the county satisfactory proof of current payment of the occupation of the other local governments.
(4)
If any employee works for the same business or practitioner in more than one jurisdiction and the business or practitioner submits proof of this, the employee shall be counted as an employee in the county only if the county is the jurisdiction where such employee works for the longest period of time within the calendar year.
(c)
If a business or practitioner commences business in the county on or after July 1 in any year, the occupation tax for the remaining portion of the year shall be 50 percent of the tax imposed for the entire year. The administrative fee shall not be reduced.
(d)
If a business or practitioner does not know how many employees, which are the basis of this occupation tax, will be employed by the business or practitioner during the current calendar year, then the business or practitioner shall file a return estimating the number of employees as the basis of this occupation tax. If such estimate is not accurate, then no later than December 31, the business or practitioner shall file an amended return indicating the actual number of employees during the previous calendar year. Any overpayment of the occupation tax may be credited to the business or practitioner's account for future tax liability, offset against other amounts due and owing to the county for any reason or paid to the business or practitioner at the discretion of the zoning administrator.
(e)
Real estate brokers shall be subject to occupation tax pursuant to this chapter only if they maintain a principal or branch office in the county.
(Code 2000, § 18-34; Ord. of 11-1-1999, § 4)
Sec. 8-5. - Number of businesses considered operating in county.
Where a person conducts business at more than one fixed location, each location or place shall be considered a separate business for the purpose of occupation tax.
(Code 2000, § 18-35; Ord. of 11-1-1999, § 5)
Sec. 8-6. - Professionals as classified in state law.
(a)
Practitioners of professions, as described in O.C.G.A. § 48-13-9(c)(1)—(18), shall elect as their entire occupation tax one of the following:
(1)
The occupation tax based on number of employees.
(2)
A fee shall be charged per practitioner who is licensed to provide the service, such tax to be paid at the practitioner's office or location. The per-practitioner fee applies to each person in the business who qualifies as a practitioner under the state's regulatory guidelines and framework. The amount of the per-practitioner fee shall be as established by the board of commissioners from time to time.
(b)
This election is to be made on an annual basis and must be done by January 5 of each year.
(Code 2000, § 18-36; Ord. of 11-1-1999, § 6)
Sec. 8-7. - Practitioners exclusively practicing for a government.
Any practitioner whose office is maintained by and who is employed in practice exclusively by the United States, the state, a municipality or county of the state, or instrumentalities of the United States, shall not be required to obtain or pay an occupation tax for the practice.
(Code 2000, § 18-37; Ord. of 11-1-1999, § 7)
Sec. 8-8. - Purpose and scope of tax.
The occupation tax levied in this chapter is for revenue purposes only and is not for regulatory purposes, nor is the payment of the tax made a condition precedent to the practice of any such profession, trade or calling. The occupation tax only applies to those businesses and occupations which are covered by the provisions of O.C.G.A. §§ 48-13-5 to 48-13-26. All other applicable businesses and occupations are taxed by the local government pursuant to the pertinent general and/or local law and ordinance.
(Code 2000, § 18-38; Ord. of 11-1-1999, § 8)
Sec. 8-9. - When tax due and payable; effect of transacting business when tax delinquent.
(a)
This registration and occupation tax shall be payable by January 1 of each year, shall be delinquent if not paid by March 1 of each year, and shall be subject to penalties for delinquencies as prescribed by section 8-16. On any new profession, trade or calling begun in the county, the registration and tax shall be delinquent if not obtained immediately upon beginning business. The tax registration provided in this section shall be issued by the zoning administrator and if any person whose duty it is to obtain a registration shall, after the registration or occupation tax becomes delinquent, transact or offer to transact in the county any of the kind of profession, trade or calling subject to this chapter without having first obtained such registration, such offender shall, upon conviction by the magistrate judge, be punished by a fine not to exceed $1,000.00, or imprisonment not to exceed 30 days, either or both, in the discretion of the magistrate judge.
(b)
In addition to the remedies specified in subsection (a) of this section, the zoning administrator, as marshal, may proceed to collect in the same manner as provided by law for tax executions.
(Code 2000, § 18-39; Ord. of 11-1-1999, § 9)
Sec. 8-10. - Exemption on grounds that business is operated for charitable purpose.
No business on which a business registration or occupation tax is levied by this chapter shall be exempt from the registration or tax on the grounds that such business is operated for a charitable purpose, unless 50 percent or more of the entire proceeds from the business are devoted to such purpose.
(Code 2000, § 18-40; Ord. of 11-1-1999, § 10)
Sec. 8-11. - Evidence of state registration required if applicable; state registration to be displayed.
(a)
Each person who is licensed by the secretary of state pursuant to O.C.G.A. title 43 shall provide evidence of proper and current state licensure before the county registration may be issued.
(b)
Each person who is licensed by the state shall post the state license in a conspicuous place in the licensee's place of business and shall keep the license there at all times while the license remains valid.
(Code 2000, § 18-41; Ord. of 11-1-1999, § 11)
Sec. 8-12. - Evidence of qualification required if applicable.
Any business required to obtain health permits, bonds, certificates of qualification, certificates of competency, or any other regulatory matter shall first, before the issuance of a county business registration, show evidence of such qualification.
(Code 2000, § 18-42; Ord. of 11-1-1999, § 12)
Sec. 8-13. - Liability of officers and agents; registration required; failure to obtain.
All persons subject to the occupation tax levy pursuant to this chapter shall be required to obtain the necessary registration for the business as described in this chapter, and in default thereof the officer or agent soliciting for or representing such persons shall be subject to the same penalty as other persons who fail to obtain a registration. Every person commencing business in the county after January 1 of each year shall likewise obtain the registration provided for in this section before commencing the business; and any person transacting, or offering to transact in the county, any of the kind of business, trade, profession or occupation without first having obtained such registration, shall be subject to penalties provided thereof.
(Code 2000, § 18-43; Ord. of 11-1-1999, § 13)
Sec. 8-14. - When registration and tax due and payable; effect of transacting business when tax delinquent.
(a)
Each registration shall be for the calendar year unless otherwise specifically provided. There is imposed a penalty upon each business which fails to apply for and obtain an appropriate business registration and pay all taxes and fees as provided in this chapter before January 31 of each year. These penalties shall be in addition to all other penalties, civil and criminal, provided in this chapter, and may be collected by the remedies provided for the collection of the occupation tax, and shall have the same lien and priority as the occupation tax to which the penalty is applied.
(b)
The registration provided for in this chapter shall be issued by the zoning administrator; and if any person whose duty it is to obtain a registration shall, after the occupation tax becomes delinquent, transact or offer to transact in the county any of the kind of business, trade, profession or occupation without having first obtained registration, such offender shall be subject to the penalties provided in section 8-16.
(Code 2000, § 18-44; Ord. of 11-1-1999, § 14)
Sec. 8-15. - Filing returns; other information required or requested.
(a)
On or before January 31 of each year, an individual, business or practitioner subject to an occupation tax pursuant to this chapter shall file with the zoning administrator, on a form approved by and available from the county, a signed return attesting to the number of employees of such business or practitioner during the calendar year.
(b)
Individuals, businesses and practitioners doing business in the county shall submit to the zoning administrator or make available within 30 days such information as may be required or requested by the county to determine the applicability and amount of the occupation tax or regulatory fee or to facilitate the levy or collection of the occupation tax and/or regulatory fee.
(Code 2000, § 18-45; Ord. of 11-1-1999, § 15)
Sec. 8-16. - Penalty for violation of this chapter.
Any person violating any provision of this chapter shall, upon conviction by the magistrate judge, be punished according to the general penalties described in section 1-11.
(Code 2000, § 18-46; Ord. of 11-1-1999, § 16)
Sec. 8-17. - Zoning administrator of county; subpoena and arresting powers.
The zoning administrator and his duly designated officers and inspectors or his successors shall be classified as deputy marshal-business inspector with full subpoena powers in conjunction with any violation pertaining to this chapter.
(Code 2000, § 18-47; Ord. of 11-1-1999, § 17)
Sec. 8-18. - Businesses not covered by this chapter.
The following businesses are not covered by the provisions of this chapter but may be assessed an occupation tax or other type of tax pursuant to the provisions of other general laws of the state or by act of local law:
(1)
Those businesses regulated by the state public service commission.
(2)
Those electric service businesses organized under O.C.G.A. § 46-3-1 et seq.
(3)
Any farm operation for the production from or on the land of agricultural products, but not including agribusiness.
(4)
Cooperative marketing associations governed by O.C.G.A. § 2-10-105.
(5)
Insurance companies governed by O.C.G.A. § 33-8-8 et seq.
(6)
Motor common carriers governed by O.C.G.A. § 46-7-15.
(7)
Those businesses governed by O.C.G.A. § 48-5-355.
(8)
Agricultural products and livestock raised in the state governed by O.C.G.A. § 48-5-356.
(9)
Depository financial institutions governed by O.C.G.A. § 48-6-93.
(10)
Facilities operated by a charitable trust governed by O.C.G.A. § 48-13-55.
(Code 2000, § 18-48; Ord. of 11-1-1999, § 18)
Sec. 8-19. - Occupation tax inapplicable where prohibited by law or provided for pursuant to other existing law.
An occupation tax shall not apply to the gross receipts of any part of a business where such levy is prohibited or exempted by the laws of the state or of the United States.
(Code 2000, § 18-49; Ord. of 11-1-1999, § 19)
Sec. 8-20. - More than one place or line of business.
Where a business is operated at more than one place or where the business includes more than one line, such business shall be required to obtain the necessary registration for each location and line and pay an occupation tax in accordance with the number of employees for each location and line.
(Code 2000, § 18-50; Ord. of 11-1-1999, § 20)
Sec. 8-21. - Execution for delinquent occupation tax.
In addition to the other remedies provided for in this chapter for the collection of the occupation tax levied in this chapter, the zoning administrator, upon any tax or installment of such tax becoming delinquent and remaining unpaid, shall issue execution for the correct amount against the person, partnership or corporation liable for such tax, which execution shall bear interest at the rate of 12 percent per annum from the date when such tax or installment becomes delinquent, and the lien shall cover the property in the county of the person, partnership or corporation liable for such tax, all as provided by the ordinances of the county and the laws of the state. The lien of such occupation tax shall become fixed on and dated from the time when such tax or any installment thereof becomes delinquent. The execution shall be levied by the magistrate judge of the county upon the property of the defendant located in the county, and sufficient property shall be advertised and sold to pay the amount of such execution, with interest and costs. All other proceedings in relation thereto shall be had as is provided by ordinances of the county and the laws of the state, and the defendant in such execution shall have the rights of defense, by affidavit of illegality and otherwise, which are provided by applicable laws in regard to tax executions. When a nulla bona entry has been entered by proper authority upon an execution issued by the zoning administrator against any person defaulting on the occupation tax, the person against whom the entry was made shall not be allowed or entitled to have or collect any fees or charges whatsoever for services rendered after the entry of the nulla bona. If, at any time after the entry of nulla bona has been made, the person against whom the execution issues pays the tax in full, together with all interest and costs accrued on the tax, the person may collect any fees and charges due him as though he had never defaulted in the payment of the taxes.
(Code 2000, § 18-51; Ord. of 11-1-1999, § 21)
Sec. 8-22. - Amendment; repeal of provisions.
This chapter shall be subject to amendment or repeal, in whole or in part, at any time, and no such amendment or repeal shall be construed to deny the right of the board of commissioners to assess and collect any of the taxes or other charges prescribed. The amendment may increase or lower the amounts and tax rates of any occupation and may change their classification. Payment of any occupation tax provided for shall not be construed as prohibiting the levy or collection by the county of additional occupational taxes upon the same person, property or business.
(Code 2000, § 18-52; Ord. of 11-1-1999, § 22)
Sec. 8-23. - Applications of provisions to prior ordinance.
This chapter does not repeal or affect the enforcement of any part of any ordinance heretofore passed where taxes levied under such prior ordinance have not been paid in full. So much and such parts of ordinances heretofore passed as provided for the issuing and enforcing of execution for any tax or assessment required by such ordinances, or that imposed fines or penalties for the nonpayment of such tax, or for the failure to pay regulatory fees provided for in such ordinances, or failure to comply with any other provisions of this chapter, shall continue and remain in force until such tax, regulatory fee or assessment shall be fully paid.
(Code 2000, § 18-53; Ord. of 11-1-1999, § 23)
Sec. 8-24. - Enforcement of provision.
It is made the duty of the zoning administrator to see that the provisions of this chapter relating to occupation taxes are observed, and to summon all violators of the same to appear before the magistrate judge. It is made the further duty of the zoning administrator, county sheriff, members of the sheriff's department, and their assistants, to inspect all registrations issued by the county, as often as in their judgment it may seem necessary to determine whether the registration held is the proper one for the business sought to be transacted thereunder.
(Code 2000, § 18-54; Ord. of 11-1-1999, § 24)
Sec. 8-25. - Provisions to remain in full force and effect until changed by commissioners.
This chapter shall remain in full force and effect until changed by amendment adopted by the board of commissioners. All provisions relating to any form of tax levied in this chapter shall remain in full force and effect until such taxes have been paid in full.
(Code 2000, § 18-55; Ord. of 11-1-1999, § 25)
Sec. 8-26. - Requirement of public hearing before tax increase.
The board of commissioners shall conduct at least one public hearing before adopting any ordinance or resolution which will increase the rate of occupation tax as set forth in this chapter.
(Code 2000, § 18-56; Ord. of 11-1-1999, § 26)
Sec. 8-27. - Option to establish exemption or reduction in occupation tax.
The board of commissioners may, by subsequent ordinance or resolution, provide for an exemption or reduction in occupation tax to one or more types of businesses or practitioners of occupations or professions as part of a plan for economic development or attracting or encouraging selected types of businesses or practitioners of selected occupations or professions. Such exemptions or reductions in occupation tax shall not be arbitrary or capricious and the reasons shall be set forth in the minutes of the board of commissioners or in a plan.
(Code 2000, § 18-57; Ord. of 11-1-1999, § 27)
Sec. 8-28. - Conflicts between specific and general provisions.
Where there is an apparent conflict in this chapter between specific and general provisions, it is the intention of this chapter that the specific shall control.
(Code 2000, § 18-58; Ord. of 11-1-1999, § 28)
