Chapter 12 - ENVIRONMENT
ARTICLE I. - IN GENERAL

Secs. 12-1—12-18. - Reserved.
ARTICLE II. - JUNK[1]
modified

Footnotes:
--- (1) ---
State Law reference— Authority to provide by ordinance for removal and disposal of junked vehicles, O.C.G.A. § 36-60-4; abandoned motor vehicles, O.C.G.A. § 40-11-1 et seq.; counties have the power to enforce, prevent, and punish violations of the state nuisance abatement laws, in addition to any provisions of its own local enabling Act, charter, or local ordinances or regulations for the abatement of nuisances, O.C.G.A. § 41-2-1 et seq.

Sec. 12-19. - Unlawful on residential property.
(a)
In clarification and reinforcement of current zoning regulations aimed at fostering the highest residential standards for areas zoned residential, currently rural residential, R1-40, R2-15, R-4, R-3, P-M, and P-R, formerly R-15, R-20, R-40, RMF, RMH, and MHP, and to prohibit conditions that constitute a health hazard or unsightly nuisance within any unincorporated area in the county zoned, now or hereafter, residential, no lot or part of a lot shall be used for the collection, storage, keeping, sale, or abandonment of junk, including scrap metal, paper, or scrapped, ruined, inoperable, immobile, or junked motor vehicles, boats, trailers, or machinery or parts thereof, old refrigerators and other old household appliances and used brick, wood, or other building products.
(b)
Any motor vehicle, boat, trailer, or machinery shall be prima facie within the prohibited category of subsection (a) of this section if it:
(1)
Shall remain at the same location for 30 days, creating an unsanitary and dangerous condition or visual nuisance;
(2)
Does not have a currently valid registration, tag, or license and is a category of property that is required by law to have such a registration, tag, or license to be lawfully operated on public highways or waters; or
(3)
Shall remain in a condition for 30 days where it is inoperable in its ordinary capacity of operation.
(Code 2000, § 26-181; Ord. of 8-3-1998)
Sec. 12-20. - Violation.
(a)
Any person violating any provision of this article, upon notification by the building inspector or other official designated by the county, shall have 30 days to remove the offending property, item or object from the property zoned residential. The failure to remove the property, item, or object within the stated period shall subject the violator to the punishment and remedies specified in the county zoning regulations. The county may, at its discretion, remove the property, item, or object from the residential zoned property at the violator's expense.
(b)
Notification under subsection (a) of this section shall be accomplished by any reasonable means, including, without limitation, service pursuant to O.C.G.A. § 9-11-4 or depositing in the mail a notice of violation in a certified letter to the owner or lawful occupant of the involved lot at the person's last known address, whether or not such owner or occupant accepts delivery of the letter.
(c)
This article shall be in force and applicable to all lots in the county zoned residential, including R2-15, R1-40, R-4, R-3, rural-residential, P-M, and P-R, as of 30 days from the enactment of the ordinance from which this article is derived.
(Code 2000, § 26-182; Ord. of 8-3-1998)
