PART I - SPECIAL ACTS AND RELATED LAWS
ARTICLE I. - BOARD OF COMMISSIONERS[1]
modified

Footnotes:
--- (1) ---
Editor's note— Printed herein is 1923 Ga. Laws (Act No. 41), page 255, which established in the county a board of commissioners. Amendments to the act are indicated by parenthetical history notes following amended provisions. The absence of a history note indicates that the provision remains unchanged from the original act. Obvious misspellings have been corrected without notation. For stylistic purposes, a uniform system of headings and catchlines has been used. Additions made for clarity are indicated by brackets.
State Law reference— Home rule for counties, Ga. Const. art. IX, § II, ¶ I; counties a body corporate and politic, Ga. Const. art. IX, § I, ¶ I; county officers, election, term, compensation, Ga. Const. art. IX, § I, ¶ III; county government generally, O.C.G.A. § 36-1-1 et seq.; board of commissioners authorized to adopt ordinances for the governing and policing of the unincorporated areas of the county, O.C.G.A. § 36-1-20(a); county a body corporate, O.C.G.A. § 36-1-3; grants of state funds to counties, O.C.G.A. § 36-17-1 et seq.; organization of county government, O.C.G.A. § 36-5-20 et seq.; authority to control property of the county, O.C.G.A. § 36-5-22.1(a)(1); matters over which governing authority has jurisdiction, O.C.G.A. § 36-5-22.1; county property generally, O.C.G.A. § 36-9-1 et seq.; code of ethics for government service, O.C.G.A. § 45-10-1; code of ethics for members of boards, commissions and authorities, O.C.G.A. § 45-10-3.

Sec. 1. - Established.
(a)
There is established in Jasper County a board of commissioners, which shall be the governing authority of Jasper County and shall be composed of five members as provided in this section. For the purpose of electing members of the board, Jasper County is divided into five commissioner districts which shall be and correspond to those five numbered districts described in and attached to and made a part of this Act and further identified as Plan Name: jasperp1 Plan Type: Local User: staff Administrator: Jasper. When used in such attachment, the terms 'Tract' and 'BG' (Block Group) shall mean and describe the same geographical boundaries as provided in the report of the Bureau of the Census for the United States decennial census of 2000 for the State of Georgia. The separate numeric designations in a Tract description which are underneath a 'BG' heading shall mean and describe individual Blocks within a Block Group as provided in the report of the Bureau of the Census for the United States decennial census of 2000 for the State of Georgia. Any part of Jasper County which is not included in any such district described in that attachment shall be included within that district contiguous to such part which contains the least population according to the United States decennial census of 2000 for the State of Georgia. Any part of Jasper County which is described in that attachment as being in a particular district shall nevertheless not be included within such district if such part is not contiguous to such district. Such noncontiguous part shall instead be included within that district contiguous to such part which contains the least population according to the United States decennial census of 2000 for the State of Georgia. Except as otherwise provided in the description of any commissioner district, whenever the description of such district refers to a named city, it shall mean the geographical boundaries of that city as shown on the census map for the United States decennial census of 2000 for the State of Georgia.
(b)
(1)
One commissioner shall be elected from each commissioner district by the electors residing solely within each respective district. A commissioner must reside within the district from which such commissioner is elected. Candidates for the office of commissioner shall certify at the time of their qualification as candidates that they are residents of the commissioner district from which they seek election.
(2)
In all elections conducted pursuant to this Act, each candidate shall designate, at the time of qualifying, the district from which they offer as a candidate. To be elected as a member of the board, a candidate must receive the highest number of votes cast for the seat they are seeking; and, at the same time, a candidate must receive a majority of the total votes cast for the election of a commissioner to that seat. In the event no candidate for a particular seat receives a majority of the votes for the seat the candidate is seeking, a run-off election shall be conducted for that particular seat in accordance with the provisions of Chapter 2 of Title 21 of the O.C.G.A., the 'Georgia Election Code,' as now or hereafter amended.
(c)
The members of the board of commissioners in office on January 1, 2008, shall continue to serve until the expiration of the terms for which they were elected, which terms shall expire December 31, 2008, and until successors are elected and qualified. At the general election in 2008, the members of the board shall be elected from Commissioner Districts 1 through 5 in accordance with the provisions of subsection (a) of this section to take office on January 1, 2009, for terms as set forth in this Act and until their successors are elected and qualified. Thereafter, successors shall be elected in the general election in the year in which the terms of office expire and shall take office on the first day of January immediately following their election for terms as set forth in this Act and until their successors are elected and qualified.
(2008 Ga. Laws (Act No. 634), page 4036, § 1(1))
Sec. 2. - Term of office.
The term of the members of the board of commissioners shall be four years and such members shall be elected pursuant to Chapter 2 of Title 21 of the O.C.G.A., the 'Georgia Election Code.'
(2008 Ga. Laws (Act No. 634), page 4036, § 1(2))
State Law reference— Georgia Election Code, O.C.G.A. § 21-2-1 et seq.
Sec. 3. - Quorum.
Any three commissioners shall constitute a quorum for the transaction of business, and they must concur to pass any order or decree.
(2008 Ga. Laws (Act No. 634), page 4036, § 1(3))
Sec. 4. - Jurisdiction.
The board of commissioners shall have exclusive jurisdiction when sitting for county purposes over the following subject matter:
(1)
Governing and controlling all the property of the county as they may deem expedient, according to law;
(2)
In levying a general tax for general and a special tax for particular county purposes, according to the provisions of the Code and the laws of Georgia;
(3)
In establishing, altering and abolishing roads, bridges and ferries in conformity to law;
(4)
In establishing and changing militia districts and election precincts;
(5)
In examining and allowing all claims against the county;
(6)
In examining and auditing the accounts of all officers having the care, management, keeping, collecting and disbursement of money belonging to the county or appropriated for its use and benefit, and bringing them for a settlement;
(7)
In making such rules and regulations for the support of the poor of the county as are authorized by law, or not inconsistent therewith; and
(8)
In regulating peddling and fixing cost of license therefor, and such other powers as were vested by law in the inferior court, when sitting for county purposes, prior to the adoption of the present State Constitution, and shall have no jurisdiction save and except such as pertain to county matters.
(2008 Ga. Laws (Act No. 634), page 4036, § 1(4))
Sec. 5. - Meetings.
Said board of commissioners shall hold 12 regular sessions annually, to be held on the first Monday of each month, unless such day is a legal holiday, then on such day as the commissioners may direct, and at such times as the board of commissioners shall establish; provided, nevertheless, that a majority of said board may convene the same in extra sessions whenever in their judgment the same may be necessary.
(2008 Ga. Laws (Act No. 634), page 4036, § 1(5))
Sec. 6. - Chairperson.
The chairperson of the board of commissioners shall be elected by majority vote of the commissioners at the first meeting of the board each year to serve a term of one year and shall:
(1)
Preside at all meetings of the board;
(2)
Establish the agenda for each meeting of the board as directed by the individual board members; and
(3)
Execute all approved documents as chief executive of Jasper County.
(2008 Ga. Laws (Act No. 634), page 4036, § 1(6))
Sec. 7. - Vice-chairperson.
There shall be elected, by majority vote of the members of the board of commissioners at the first meeting of the board each year, a vice-chairperson who shall serve a term of one year and shall perform those duties of the commission chairperson, when said commission chairperson is in absentia.
(2008 Ga. Laws (Act No. 634), page 4036, § 1(7))
Sec. 8. - Clerk of board; compensation, bond.
Said board of commissioners may elect a clerk to be known as the clerk of the board of commissioners of Jasper County, may prescribe the duties, fix the compensation as hereinafter provided and require a bond for the faithful performance of the clerk's duties, which said clerk shall hold office during the pleasure of said board; and it shall be the duty of the clerk of said board to attend the sessions of said commissioners, to keep a minute of the proceedings in a well-bound book to be provided at the expense of the county, and to perform such other duties as may be required by said board.
(2008 Ga. Laws (Act No. 634), page 4036, § 1(8))
Sec. 9. - County manager.
Said board of commissioners may appoint a full-time manager to be known as the county manager of Jasper County, may prescribe the duties, fix the compensation, and require a bond for the faithful performance of the manager's duties, which said manager shall serve at the pleasure of said board; and it shall be the duty of the county manager to attend the sessions of said commissioners, and to perform such other duties as may be required by said board. At the board's discretion, the county manager may serve as the clerk of the board.
(2008 Ga. Laws (Act No. 634), page 4036, § 1(9))
Sec. 10. - Official bonds.
Said board of commissioners or a majority of them shall have authority to approve all official bonds formerly required of the justices of the inferior court, and sent them by the Governor, with the dedimus to qualify such officers and deliver them their commissions.
(2008 Ga. Laws (Act No. 634), page 4036, § 1(10))
Sec. 11. - Board deemed a body corporate.
Said board of commissioners shall be a body corporate, and may sue and be sued, plead and be impleaded, in all matters within their jurisdiction, as herein defined, but no judgment, order or decree of any court shall have effect against the individual property of any member of said board, but shall constitute a charge against said county.
(2008 Ga. Laws (Act No. 634), page 4036, § 1(11))
Sec. 12. - To be sworn.
Each commissioner, before entering upon the discharge of their duties, shall be sworn by each other, and a record thereof entered in the book of minutes to be kept by them as hereinbefore provided, well and truly to discharge his or her duty as such.
(2008 Ga. Laws (Act No. 634), page 4036, § 1(12))
Sec. 13. - Compensation.
For the terms of office beginning January 1, 2009, the chairperson of the board shall receive the sum of $800.00 per month as base compensation. The other members shall each receive the sum of $600.00 per month as base compensation for their services. For all successive terms of office the compensation of the chair and the other board members shall be set by home rule as authorized by Article IX, Section II, Paragraph I of the Constitution of the State of Georgia. Expenses for official county business incurred outside of the county are to be reimbursed to the commissioners at the same rate as county employees.
(2008 Ga. Laws (Act No. 634), page 4036, § 1(13))
Sec. 14. - Bonds of commissioners.
Each commissioner before entering upon the discharge of their duties, and each of their successors in office, shall give bond in the sum of $2,000.00 payable to the Governor of this State, said bonds be approved by the probate court judge of Jasper County, conditioned upon the faithful performance of their duty.
(2008 Ga. Laws (Act No. 634), page 4036, § 1(14))
Sec. 15. - Costs in misdemeanor case when convicts are sentenced to chain gang.
Said board of commissioners are hereby authorized and directed to pay to the proper officers the actual cost in the case where misdemeanor convicts are sentenced to the work detail of said county, and served their term upon said work detail, provided, they are sentenced to said work detail for a period of three months or more.
(2008 Ga. Laws (Act No. 634), page 4036, § 1(15))
Sec. 16. - Vacancies.
(a)
In the event of a vacancy by death, resignation, permanent change of the residence of a commissioner from the district from which said commissioner was elected, or otherwise, such vacancy shall be filled for the remainder of the term by appointment of a resident of the vacated commissioner district by a majority vote of the remaining members of the board, provided the remaining term of office is less than 12 months, or by special election if the remaining term of office exceeds 12 months. Said election of the legal and qualified voters of the commissioner district shall be governed by the law, rules and regulations governing general elections. And the persons receiving the largest number of votes shall serve the remainder of the term thus rendered vacant.
(b)
In the event a commissioner fails to attend six consecutive regular meetings, except for reason of military service, the board may declare said commissioner's seat vacant, and said vacancy shall be filled in accordance with subsection (a) of this section.
(2008 Ga. Laws (Act No. 634), page 4036, § 1(16))
Editor's note— The descriptions of the five commissioner districts attached to Act No. 634, § 1, enacted March 10, 2008 (2008 Ga. Laws (Act No. 634), page 4036, § 1), was not included in this printing of the Local Laws and Special Acts at the discretion of the editor.
ARTICLE II. - DEVELOPMENT AUTHORITY[2]
modified

Footnotes:
--- (2) ---
Editor's note— Printed herein is 1968 Ga. Laws (Act No. 126), page 1550, which amended the state constitution to provide for the Jasper County Industrial Development Authority. The amendment was continued in force and effect by 1986 Ga. Laws, page 4155. Amendments to the act are indicated by parenthetical history notes following amended provisions. The absence of a history note indicates that the provision remains unchanged from the original act. Obvious misspellings have been corrected without notation. For stylistic purposes, a uniform system of headings, catchlines and citations to state statutes has been used. Additions made for clarity are indicated by brackets.
State Law reference— Development Authorities Law, O.C.G.A. § 36-62-1 et seq.

Sec. 1. - Created.
There is hereby created a body corporate and politic in Jasper County, to be known as the "Jasper County Industrial Development Authority," which shall be an instrumentality of Jasper County and a public corporation and which in this amendment is hereafter referred to as the "Authority."
Sec. 2. - Members.
The Authority shall consist of five members who shall be appointed by the Board of Commissioners of Roads and Revenues of Jasper County and they shall serve for a term of five years. Vacancies shall be filled for the unexpired term by the said Board of County Commissioners. A majority of the members shall constitute a quorum and a majority may act for the Authority in any matter. No vacancy shall impair the power of the Authority to act.
Sec. 3. - Immunity from taxation.
The property, obligations and the interest on the obligations of the Authority shall have the same immunity from taxation as the property, obligations and interest on the obligations of Jasper County. The exemptions from taxation herein provided shall not include exemptions from sale and use taxes on property purchased by the Authority or for use by the Authority.
Sec. 4. - Powers.
The powers of the Authority shall include, but not be limited to, the power:
(1)
To receive and administer gifts, grants and donations and to administer trusts;
(2)
To borrow money, to issue notes, bonds and revenue certificates, to execute trust agreements or indentures, and to sell, convey, mortgage, pledge and assign any and all of its funds, property and income as security therefor;
(3)
To contract with political subdivisions of the State of Georgia and with private persons and corporations and to sue and be sued in its corporate name;
(4)
To have and exercise usual powers of private corporation except such as are inconsistent with this amendment, including the power to appoint and hire officers, agents and employees and to provide their compensation and duties, which officers and agents may or may not be members of the Authority, and the power to adopt and amend a corporate seal and bylaws and regulations for the conduct and management of the Authority;
(5)
To encourage and promote the expansion and development of industrial and commercial facilities in Jasper County so as to relieve insofar as possible unemployment within its boundaries, and to that end to acquire by purchase or gift any building or structure within the limits of Jasper County, suitable for and intended for use as a factory, mill, shop, processing plant, assembly plant, or fabricating plant, including all necessary and appurtenant lands and appurtenances thereto, and all necessary or useful furnishing, machinery and equipment. Such acquisition may be through the acquisition of land and the construction thereon of a building, including the demolition of existing structures, or through the acquisition of an existing building and the remodeling, renovating, reconstructing, furnishing and equipping of such building;
(6)
No building acquired hereunder shall be operated by the Authority but shall be leased or sold to one or more persons, firms or corporations. If sold, the purchase price may be paid at one time or in installments falling due in not more than thirty (30) years from the date of transfer of possession. The lessee or purchaser shall be required to pay all costs of operating and maintaining the building or buildings and to pay rentals or installments sufficient, together with other revenues which may be pledged for the purpose, to retire all bonds, both principal and interest, and to pay all other expenses which the Authority may have incurred in connection with the undertaking;
(7)
To accumulate its funds from year to year and to invest accumulated funds in any manner that public funds of the State of Georgia or any of its political subdivisions may be invested;
(8)
To designate officers to sign and act for the Authority generally or in any specific matter;
(9)
To do any and all acts and things necessary or convenient to accomplish the purpose and powers of the Authority as herein stated.
Sec. 5. - Debts.
The Authority shall not be authorized to create in any manner any debt, liability or obligation against the State of Georgia or Jasper County.
Sec. 6. - Compensation.
The members of the Authority shall receive no compensation for their services to the Authority.
Sec. 7. - Bonds.
In order to finance any undertaking within the scope of its power or to refund any bonds then outstanding, the Authority is hereby authorized to issue bonds bearing rate or rates of interest and maturing at the years and amounts determined by the Authority and the procedure of validation, issuance and delivery shall be in all respects in accordance with the Revenue Bond Law (1937 Ga. Laws, page 761), as amended, Ga. Code Ann. Supp. Chapter 87-8, as if said obligations had been originally authorized to be issued thereunder; provided, however, that any property, real or personal, of the Authority may be pledged, mortgaged, conveyed, assigned, hypothecated or otherwise encumbered as security for any lawful debt of the Authority. The Authority may execute any trust agreement or indenture not in conflict with the provisions of this amendment to provide security for any bonds issued as provided herein, and such trust agreement or indenture may provide for foreclosure or forced sale of any property of the Authority upon default on such bonds either in payment of principal or interest or under any term or condition under which such bonds are issued. Nothing herein contained shall be construed to create a right to compel any exercise of the taxiing powers of Jasper County to pay any such bonds or the interest thereon nor to enforce payment thereof against any property of Jasper County.
Sec. 8. - Additional bonds.
The Authority may authorize additional bonds for extensions and permanent improvements to any industrial building acquired hereunder, to be placed in escrow and to be negotiated from time to time as proceeds for that purpose may become necessary. Bonds so placed in escrow shall, when sold and delivered, have such standing with the bonds of the same issue as may be provided in the authorizing proceedings.
Sec. 9. - Bond issuance exceptions.
No bonds except refunding bonds shall be issued hereunder unless the Authority shall have found and declared that:
(1)
The undertaking for which the bonds are to be issued will increase employment in Jasper County.
(2)
The lessee or purchaser of the building or buildings involved will not by virtue of establishing operations in said County, reduce the number of employees employed by said lessee or purchaser elsewhere in the State of Georgia.
Sec. 10. - Use of funds.
No moneys derived by the Authority from any source other than gifts and contributions from private individuals, firms, or corporations shall at any time be used for entertainment, or other promotional expenses.
Sec. 11. - Property.
Should said Authority for any reason be dissolved, title to all property of every kind and nature, real and personal, held by the Authority at the time of such dissolution shall revert to Jasper County subject to any mortgages, liens, leases or other encumbrances outstanding against or in respect to said property at that time.
Sec. 12. - Purpose.
This amendment is adopted for the purpose of promoting and expanding for the public good and welfare industry and trade within Jasper County and reducing unemployment to the greatest extent possible, and this amendment and any law enacted with reference to the Authority shall be liberally construed for the accomplishment of these purposes.
Sec. 13. - Effective date.
This amendment shall be effective immediately upon proclamation of its ratification by the Governor and the first members of the Authority shall be appointed within thirty (30) days after such proclamation.
Sec. 14. - General assembly.
The General Assembly may by law further define and prescribe the powers and duties of the Authority and the exercise thereof, and may enlarge and restrict the same, and may likewise further regulate the management and conduct of the Authority. The Authority shall be an instrumentality of Jasper County and the scope of its operations shall be limited to the territory embraced within said County. The General Assembly shall not extend the jurisdiction of the Authority nor the scope of its operations beyond such limits.
ARTICLE III. - WATER AND SEWER AUTHORITY[3]
modified

Footnotes:
--- (3) ---
Editor's note— Printed herein is 1999 Ga. Laws (Act No. 216), page 4595, which created the Jasper County Water and Sewer Authority. Amendments to the act are indicated by parenthetical history notes following amended provisions. The absence of a history note indicates that the provision remains unchanged from the original act. Obvious misspellings have been corrected without notation. For stylistic purposes, a uniform system of headings, catchlines and citations to state statutes has been used. Additions made for clarity are indicated by brackets.

Sec. 1. - Creation; membership.
(a)
There is created a body corporate and politic, to be known as the Jasper County Water and Sewer Authority, which shall be deemed to be a public corporation and by that name, style, and title said body may contract and be contracted with, sue and be sued, implead and be impleaded, and complain and defend in all courts of law and equity, except that the authority or the trustee acting under any trust indenture shall in no event be liable for any torts committed by its officers, agents, or employees.
(b)
The authority shall consist of nine members. The board of commissioners of Jasper County shall appoint the members of the authority, each of whom shall reside in Jasper County. The board of commissioners of Jasper County shall appoint three of the initial members for initial terms of three years, three of the initial members for initial terms of two years, and three of the initial members for initial terms of one year; with subsequent appointments for terms of office of three years. Vacancies shall be filled for an unexpired term by the board of commissioners of Jasper County. Any authority member who is convicted of a felony shall be removed from the authority upon the date of conviction, regardless of appeal processes. A majority of the members shall constitute a quorum and a majority may act for the authority in any matter. No vacancy shall impair the power of the authority to act. The authority shall elect one of its members as chairperson and another member as vice chairperson. It shall also elect a secretary and treasurer who does not necessarily have to be a member of the authority and who, if not a member, shall have no voting rights. The members of the authority shall serve without compensation. The authority may make rules and regulations and adopt bylaws for its own government. It shall have perpetual existence.
Sec. 2. - Definitions.
As used in this Act, the term:
(1)
"Authority" means the Jasper County Water and Sewer Authority created by Section 1 of this Act.
(2)
"Cost of the project" shall embrace the cost of construction, the cost of all lands, properties, rights, easements, and franchises acquired, the cost of all machinery and equipment, financing charges, interest prior to and during construction, and for one year after completion of construction, the cost of engineering, architectural, fiscal, and legal expenses, and of plans and specifications, and other expenses necessary or incident to determining the feasibility or practicability of the project, administrative expenses, and such other expenses as may be necessary or incident to the financing authorized in this Act, the construction of any project, the placing of the same in operation, and the condemnation of property necessary for such construction and operation. Any obligation or expense incurred for any of the foregoing purposes shall be regarded as a part of the cost of the project and may be paid or reimbursed as such out of the proceeds of revenue bonds issued under the provisions of this Act for such project.
(3)
"Project" means and includes the acquisition and construction of systems, plants, works, instrumentalities, and properties: (A) used or useful in connection with the obtaining of a water supply and the conservation, treatment, distribution, and sale of water for public and private uses; or (B) used or useful in connection with the collection, treatment, and disposal of sewage and like waste water; together with all parts of any such system, plant, work, instrumentality, and property and all appurtenances thereto, including lands, easements, rights in land, water rights, contract rights, franchises, approaches, dams, reservoirs, generating stations, sewage disposal plants, intercepting sewers, trunk, connecting, and other sewers and water mains, filtration works, pumping stations, and equipment.
(4)
"Revenue bonds" and "bonds" mean revenue bonds authorized to be issued pursuant to this Act.
(5)
"Self-liquidating" means that the revenues and earnings to be derived by the authority therefrom and all properties used, leased, and sold in connection therewith will be sufficient to pay the cost of operating, maintaining, repairing, improving, and extending the project and to pay the principal and interest of the revenue bonds which may be issued for the cost of such project or projects.
Sec. 3. - Powers.
The authority shall have the following powers:
(1)
To have a seal and alter the same at its pleasure;
(2)
To acquire by purchase, lease, gift, or otherwise and to hold, lease, and dispose of real and personal property of every kind and character for its corporate purposes;
(3)
To acquire in its own name by purchase, on such terms and conditions and in such manner as it may deem proper, or by condemnation in accordance with the provisions of any and all existing laws applicable to the condemnation of property for public use, real property or rights of easements therein or franchises necessary or convenient for its corporate purposes and to use the same so long as its corporate existence shall continue and to lease or make contracts with respect to the use of or dispose of the same in any manner it deems to the best advantage of the authority. The authority shall be under no obligation to accept and pay for any property condemned under this Act except from the funds provided under the authority of this Act, and in any proceedings to condemn, such orders may be made by the court having jurisdiction of the suit, action, or proceedings as may be just to the authority and to the owners of the property to be condemned; provided, however, that the power of eminent domain shall no be exercised outside the limits of Jasper County;
(4)
To enter into an agreement with the governing authority of Jasper County and any municipalities therein, with respect to acquiring a source of water supply, providing sewerage service, preparing engineering data, plans, and specifications for a water and sewerage system, extending water mains, apportioning the costs of constructing, extending, and maintaining a water or sewerage system, or both, providing for the testing and inspection of facilities constructed, providing for rates to be charged for water and sewerage services furnished to users of the system, providing for the reading of meters and keeping of pertinent records, apportioning or designating the responsibility for any functions normally maintained by a water and sewerage system, providing for the ownership of the various facilities constructed or acquired, and providing for such other matters or contingencies as might be necessary or desirable in order to secure for Jasper County a satisfactory and reliable water and sewerage system at the most reasonable cost possible;
(5)
To appoint, select, and employ such officers, agents, and employees as shall be necessary in the judgment of the authority to accomplish the purposes of the authority, including engineering, architectural, and construction experts, fiscal agents, and attorneys; to fix their respective compensation; and to provide for pension and retirement plans for these officers, agents, and employees; provided, however, that any contract for the design of a sewerage system shall contain a provision ensuring proper supervision and inspection of the installation of the system, either by agreeing with the design engineer to supervise and inspect the installation or by agreeing that the supervision and inspection shall be performed by another engineer not associated with any contractor or subcontractor responsible for installing the system. The authority may require bond of any person handling funds of the authority;
(6)
To make contracts and leases and to execute all instruments necessary or convenient, including contracts for construction of projects and leases of projects or contracts with respect to the use of projects which the authority causes to be erected or acquired. Any and all persons, firms, and corporations and any and all consolidated governments, political subdivisions, departments, institutions, or agencies of the state are authorized to enter into contracts, leases, or agreements with the authority upon such terms and for such purposes as they deem advisable. Without limiting the generality of the foregoing provisions of this paragraph, authority is specifically granted to consolidated governments, municipal corporations, and counties and to the authority to enter into contracts, lease agreements, or other undertakings relative to the furnishing of water or sewerage service and facilities, or both, by the authority to such consolidated governments, municipal corporations, and counties to the authority for a term not exceeding 50 years. As to any consolidated government, political subdivision, department, institution, or agency of this state which shall enter into an agreement under the authority granted in this paragraph or in paragraph (4) of this section, the obligation to perform and fulfill such agreement shall constitute a general obligation of such entity for which its full faith and credit shall be pledged;
(7)
To construct, erect, acquire, own, repair, remodel, maintain, add to, extend, improve, equip, operate, and manage projects, as defined in paragraph (3) of this section, the cost of any such project to be paid in whole or in part from the proceeds of revenue bonds of the authority or from such proceeds and any grant from the United States of America or any agency or instrumentality thereof or from the State of Georgia or any agency, instrumentality, consolidated government, or political subdivision thereof;
(8)
To make loans with and accept grants of money or materials or property of any kind from the United States of America or any agency or instrumentality thereof upon such terms and conditions as the United States of America or such agency or instrumentality may impose;
(9)
To make loans with and accept grants of money, materials, or property of any kind from the State of Georgia or any agency, instrumentality, consolidated government, or political subdivision thereof upon such terms and conditions as the State of Georgia or such agency, instrumentality, consolidated government, or political subdivision may impose;
(10)
To borrow money for any of the authority's corporate purposes and to issue negotiable revenue bonds payable solely from funds pledged for that purpose and to provide for the payment of the same and for the rights of the holders thereof;
(11)
To exercise any power usually possessed by private corporations performing similar functions, including the power to make short-term loans and to approve, execute, deliver, or accept appropriate evidence of any such indebtedness; provided, however, that no such power is in conflict with the Constitution or general laws of this state;
(12)
The authority and any trustee acting under any trust indenture are specifically authorized from time to time to sell, lease, grant, exchange, or otherwise dispose of any surplus property, both real and personal, or interest therein not required in the normal operation of and usable in the furtherance of the purpose for which the authority was created, except as such right and power might be limited as provided elsewhere in this Act;
(13)
Except as otherwise provided in this Act, the authority may exercise any of its powers or provide any of its services inside the boundaries of any local government within Jasper County and, when authorized by contract with the governing authority thereof, within the limits of another municipality or county;
(14)
The authority shall further have full and plenary power and duty to make and enforce rules and regulations for the management and operation of the water and sewerage systems which now exist and as hereafter added to, extended, or improved by any project or projects constructed under the provisions of this Act; to prescribe, fix, and collect rates, fees, tolls, or charges and to revise from time to time and collect such rates, fees, tolls, or charges for the services, facilities, or commodities furnished; and, in anticipation of the collection of the revenues of such undertaking or project, to issue revenue bonds as provided in this Act to finance in whole or in part the acquisition, construction, reconstruction, improvement, betterment, or extension of the water and sewerage systems; and to pledge to the punctual payment of the bonds and interest thereon, all or any part of the revenues of such undertaking or project, including the revenues of improvements, betterments, or extensions thereto; and to classify and differentiate such rates, fees, tolls, or charges in any reasonable manner, including, but not limited to, small, intermediate and large consumers and industrial, commercial, and residential consumers and, with respect to sewer rates, according to the amount of suspended solids and the biological oxygen demand of sewerage users. Additionally, and not in limitation of the foregoing, the authority, in fixing water or sewerage rates, or both, shall be fully authorized and empowered to comply with any state or federal Acts and any lawful regulations adopted pursuant to any such Act. As a limitation of the power of the authority, however, if at any time there are issued and outstanding revenue bonds for the payment of which the revenues of the authority are pledged, the authority shall make no decrease in rates for water and sewer service which will in any way impair the obligations contained in the revenue bonds;
(15)
The authority shall further have the power to acquire insurance for its property, its authority members, and its officers and employees, including but not limited to fire, wind, storm, extended coverage insurance, and vehicular liability insurance; all other types of liability insurance; casualty insurance, fidelity insurance, comprehensive insurance, public officials' liability insurance, general public liability insurance covering all hazards, group life insurance, group accident insurance, group health insurance, group hospitalization insurance, group medical insurance, or any combination thereof; together with any and all other types of insurance on its property, officers, authority members, and employees as the authority in its judgment and discretion deems meet and proper in the conduct of its business; and on such terms and conditions and in such amounts as the authority deems appropriate in its judgment and discretion; and with the payment of premiums and charges therefor, together with any other costs incident thereto, to be paid in whole or in part by the authority and out of the general funds of the authority as the authority may determine;
(16)
The authority is further authorized and empowered to adopt rules and regulations providing for the suspension of service to delinquent customers. The authority, through its executive director, or such other employees as the authority designates, shall have the right and power to issue executions of any past due charges, which executions shall be a lien upon and against the land and other properties of the assessed party which lien shall be of equal priority, rank, and dignity having the same attributes, rights, and powers as to collection and foreclosure thereof as an execution for unpaid ad valorem taxes of the State of Georgia or the County of Jasper; provided, however, that no such lien shall exist as to third parties until execution therefor shall have been issued by the authority and placed upon the general execution docket of the Superior Court of Jasper County. In the event that sewerage service is discontinued pursuant to this section, the appropriate health authorities shall be immediately notified;
(17)
The authority shall further have the right and power to purchase, install, construct, repair, and replace fire hydrants on public property, together with all needful and necessary accessories and adjuncts thereto, in connection with existing or new water lines or mains of the authority and to defray and pay for any part or all of the cost and expense thereof, labor, material, and otherwise, utilizing any available funds of the authority therefor;
(18)
The authority is authorized to:
(A)
Qualify, apply for, and obtain a license or permit, known as a National Pollution Discharge Elimination System (N.P.D.E.S.) permit, or monetary grants for the collection, treatment, and discharge of waste waters pursuant to the provisions of the Federal Water Pollution Control Act, as amended (33 U.S.C. Section 1251 et seq.), and O.C.G.A. tit. 12, ch. 5, art. 2, the "Georgia Water Quality Control Act," as amended, and the respective regulations adopted pursuant thereto;
(B)
By regulations provide for the adoption, promulgation, administration, setting of standards and provisions for regulating, enforcing, amending, monitoring, and compelling compliance with the terms, conditions, and provisions of a pretreatment program pertaining to the pretreatment of industrial waste water effluent that is to be delivered into the authority's sewerage system and is to be treated by the waste water treatment facilities of such authority, which pretreatment program shall include and comply with all requirements and provisions applicable thereto as set forth in both the Federal Water Pollution Control Act, as amended (33 U.S.C. Sections 1251 et seq.), and O.C.G.A. tit. 12, ch. 5, art. 2, the "Georgia Water Quality Control Act," as amended, and the respective regulations thereto; and additional restrictions that are required in order to allow the authority to comply with its N.P.D.E.S. permit; provided, however, that any regulations issued subsequent to the initial regulations issued pursuant to the authority in this Act or any amendment to such initial regulation shall not go into effect until notice thereof has been advertised in the official organ of Jasper County at least twice, not later than 15 days prior to the effective date thereof, and until an opportunity for interested parties to be heard thereon has been provided at least five days before such effective date;
(C)
Make application to the Superior Court of Jasper County, Georgia, for injunctive relief against any person who has engaged in or is about to engage in any act or practice which constitutes or will constitute a violation of any provision of such pretreatment regulations by seeking an order enjoining and restraining such act or practice. Upon a showing by the authority that such person has engaged in or is about to engage in any such act or practice, a permanent or temporary injunction, restraining order, or other order shall be granted without the necessity of showing a lack of adequate remedy at law;
(D)
To provide that any person, firm, or corporation that fails to comply with any of the pretreatment standards or requirements set forth in such pretreatment regulations shall be liable to civil penalty not to exceed $1,000.00 per day for each day during which such noncompliance continues. The executive director of the authority, or such other employee the authority designates, after a hearing shall determine whether or not any such person is in noncompliance of any such standard or requirement and may, upon a proper finding, issue his or her order imposing such civil penalties as provided in this Act. Any person so penalized is entitled to judicial review. In this connection, all hearings and proceedings for judicial review shall be in accordance with Code Section 50-13-19 of the O.C.G.A. [O.C.G.A. § 50-13-19] and venue shall be in the Superior Court of Jasper County. All penalties recovered by the executive director shall be paid into the general treasury of the authority and to the credit of its general fund;
(E)
In any instance of an emergency, where there is a violation of a regulation of the pretreatment program of the authority or where a condition exists which presently causes or where the continuance of which causes (i) a present danger to the life or health of persons or (ii) is permanently and seriously damaging water or waste water treatment equipment or facilities, the executive director, or such employee as the authority designates, is authorized to immediately terminate water or sewer service, or both, as is necessary to stop and eliminate such danger or damage; and
(F)
Upon the issuance of any order assessing a civil penalty and after the expiration of 30 days following the date of any such order, with no appeal taken as provided in Code Section 50-13-19 of the O.C.G.A. [O.C.G.A. § 50-13-19], the authority, through and by its executive director, or such other employee as the authority designates, shall have the right and power to issue executions on any such order assessing a civil penalty, and, in the amount thereof, such execution shall be a lien upon and against the land and other properties of the assessed party which lien shall be of equal priority, rank, and dignity having the same attributes, rights, and powers as to collection and foreclosure thereof as an execution for unpaid ad valorem taxes of the State of Georgia or the County of Jasper; and
(19)
To do all things necessary or convenient to carry out the powers expressly given in this Act.
Sec. 4. - Financing projects.
The authority, or any authority or body which has or which may in the future succeed to the powers, duties, and liabilities vested in the authority created in this Act, shall have power and is authorized at one time, or from time to time, to borrow money for the purpose of paying all or any part of the cost, as defined in this Act, of any one or more projects and to provide by resolution for the issuance of negotiable revenue bonds of that purpose. The principal and interest of such revenue bonds shall be payable solely from the special fund provided in this section for such payment. The bonds of each issue shall be dated, shall bear interest at such rate or rates not to exceed the maximum limit prescribed in O.C.G.A. tit. 36, ch. 82, the "Revenue Bond Law," as now or hereafter amended, shall be payable semiannually, and shall be payable in such medium of payment as to both principal and interest as may be determined by the authority and may be made redeemable before maturity, at the option of the authority, at such price or prices and under such terms and conditions as may be fixed by the authority in the resolution providing for the issuance of the bonds.
Sec. 5. - Revenue bonds; form; denominations; registration; place of payment.
The authority shall determine the form of the bonds, including any interest coupons to be attached thereto, and shall fix the denomination or denominations of the bonds and the place or places of payment of principal and interest thereof, which may be at any bank or trust company inside or outside the state. The bonds may be issued in coupon or registered form, or both, as the authority may determine and provision may be made for the registration of any coupon bond as to principal alone and also as to both the principal and interest.
Sec. 6. - Signatures and seal of revenue bonds.
All such bonds shall bear the manual or facsimile signature of the chairperson of the authority and the attesting manual or facsimile signature of the secretary of the authority, and the official seal of the authority shall be affixed thereto. The signature of one of such officers shall be placed manually on each bond. Any coupons attached thereto shall bear the manual or facsimile signature of the chairperson or the secretary of the authority. Any coupon may bear the facsimile signature of such person and any bond may bear the facsimile signature of and may be manually signed, sealed, and attested to on behalf of the authority by such persons as at the actual time of the execution of such bonds shall be duly authorized or hold the proper office, although at the date of such bonds such persons may not have been so authorized or shall not have held such office. In case any officer whose signature shall appear on any bonds or whose facsimile signature shall appear on any coupon shall cease to be such officer before the delivery of such bonds, such signature shall nevertheless be valid and sufficient for all purposes the same as if he or she had remained in office until such delivery.
Sec. 7. - Negotiability; exemption from taxation of revenue bonds.
All revenue bonds issued under the provisions of this Act shall have all the qualities and incidents of negotiable instruments under the laws of the State of Georgia pertaining to negotiable instruments. Such bonds are declared to be issued for essential public and governmental purposes, and the bonds, their transfer, and the income therefrom shall be exempt from all taxation within the state.
Sec. 8. - Sale, price of revenue bonds.
The authority may sell such bonds in such manner and for such price as it may determine to be for the best interests of the authority.
Sec. 9. - Proceeds of bonds.
The proceeds of such bonds shall be used solely for the payment of the cost of the project or projects, and unless otherwise provided in the resolution authorizing the issuance of the bonds or in any trust indenture, additional bonds may in like manner be issued to provide the amount of any deficit which, unless otherwise provided in the resolution authorizing the issuance of the bonds or in any trust indenture, shall be deemed to be of the same and shall be entitled to payment from the same fund without preference or priority of the bonds first issued for the same purpose. If the proceeds of the bonds of any issue shall exceed the amount required for the purpose for which such bonds are issued, the surplus shall be paid into the fund provided for in this Act to be used for paying the principal of and the interest on such bonds.
Sec. 10. - Interim receipts, certificates or temporary bonds.
Prior to the preparation of definitive bonds, the authority may, under like restrictions, issue interim receipts, interim certificates, or temporary bonds, with or without coupons, exchangeable for definitive bonds upon the issuance of the latter.
Sec. 11. - Replacement of lost or mutilated bonds.
The authority may also provide for the replacement of any bond which shall become mutilated or be destroyed or lost.
Sec. 12. - Conditions precedent to issue of revenue bonds; object of issue.
Such revenue bonds may be issued without any other proceedings or the happening of any other conditions or things than those proceedings, conditions, and things which are specified or required by this Act. In the discretion of the authority, revenue bonds of a single issue may be issued for the purpose of any particular project. Any resolution providing for the issuance of revenue bonds under the provisions of this Act shall become effective immediately upon its passage and need not be published or posted, and any such resolution may be passed at any regular, special, or adjourned meeting of the authority by a majority of the quorum as provided in this Act.
Sec. 13. - Credit not pledged.
Revenue bonds issued under the provisions of this Act shall not be deemed to constitute a debt of Jasper County or a pledge of the faith and credit of the county, but the bonds shall be payable solely from the fund provided for in this Act, and the issuance of such revenue bonds shall not directly, indirectly, or contingently obligate the county to levy or to pledge any form of taxation whatever therefor or to make any appropriation for their payment, and all such bonds shall contain recitals on their face covering substantially the foregoing provisions of this section; provided, however, that the governing authority of Jasper County is authorized to contract with the authority for any of the undertakings authorized in this Act. Such county may in connection therewith, jointly or severally, use any funds from any lawful source or from the proceeds of the issue and sale of bonds for such purpose.
Sec. 14. - Trust indenture as security.
In the discretion of the authority, any issue of such revenue bonds may be secured by a trust indenture by and between the authority and a corporate trustee, which may be any trust company or bank inside or outside the state having the power of a trust company. Such trust indenture may pledge or assign fees, tolls, charges, revenues, and earnings to be received by the authority. Either the resolution providing for the issuance of revenue bonds or such trust indenture may contain such provisions for protecting and enforcing the rights and remedies of the bondholders as may be reasonable and proper and not in violation of law, including covenants setting forth the duties of the authority in relation to the acquisition of property, the construction of the project, the maintenance, operation, repair, and insurance of the project, and the custody, safeguarding, and application of all moneys; and may also provide that any project shall be constructed and paid for under the supervision and approval of consulting engineers or architects employed or designated by the authority who are satisfactory to the original purchasers of the bonds issued therefor; and may also require that the security given by contractors and by any depositary of the proceeds of the bonds or revenues or any other moneys be satisfactory to such purchasers, and may also contain provisions concerning the conditions, if any, upon which additional revenue bonds may be issued. It shall be unlawful for any bank or trust company incorporated under the laws of this state to act as such depositary and to furnish such indemnifying bonds or pledge such securities as may be required by the authority. Such indenture may set forth the rights and remedies of the bondholders and of the trustee and may restrict the individual right of action of bondholders as is customary in trust indentures securing bonds and debentures of private corporations. In addition to the foregoing, such trust indenture may contain such other provisions as the authority may deem reasonable and proper for the security of the bondholder. All expenses incurred in carrying out such trust indenture may be treated as a part of the cost of maintenance, operation, and repair of the project affected by such indenture.
Sec. 15. - To whom proceeds of bonds shall be paid.
The authority shall, in the resolution providing for the issuance of revenue bonds or in any trust indenture, provide for the payment of the proceeds of the sale of the bonds to any officer or person who, or any agency, bank, or trust company which, shall act as trustee of such bonds and shall hold and apply the same to the purposes hereof, subject to such regulations as this Act and such resolution or trust indenture may provide.
Sec. 16. - Sinking fund.
The revenues, fees, tolls, charges, and earnings derived from any particular project or projects, regardless of whether or not such fees, tolls, charges, earnings, and revenues were produced by a particular project for which bonds have been issued, unless otherwise pledged and allocated, may be pledged and allocated by the authority to the payment of the principal of and interest on revenue bonds of the authority as the resolution authorizing the issuance of the bonds or in the trust instrument may provide, and such funds so pledged from whatever source received, which pledge may include funds received from one or more or all sources, shall be set aside at regular intervals as may be provided in the resolution or trust indenture into a sinking fund, which sinking fund shall be pledged to and charged with the payments of:
(1)
The interest on such revenue bonds as such interest shall fall due;
(2)
The principal of the bonds as the same shall fall due;
(3)
The necessary charges of paying agents for paying principal and interest; and
(4)
Any premium upon bonds retired by call or purchase as provided in this section.
The use and disposition of such sinking funds shall be subject to such regulations as may be provided in the resolution authorizing the issuance of the revenue bonds or in the trust indenture, but, except as may otherwise be provided in such resolution or trust indenture, such sinking fund shall be a fund for the benefit of all revenue bonds without distinction or priority of one over another. Subject to the provisions of the resolution authorizing the issuance of the bonds or in any trust indenture, surplus moneys in the sinking fund may be applied to the purchase or redemption of bonds, and any such bonds so purchased or redeemed shall forthwith be canceled and shall not again be issued.
Sec. 17. - Remedies of bondholders.
Any holder of revenue bonds issued under the provisions of this Act or any of the coupons appertaining thereto and the trustee under the trust indenture, if any, except to the extent the rights provided for in this Act may be restricted by resolution passed before the issuance of the bonds or by any trust indenture, may, either at law or in equity, by suit, action, mandamus, or other proceedings protect and enforce any and all rights under the laws of the State of Georgia or granted under this Act or under such resolution or trust indenture and may enforce and compel performance of all duties required by this Act or by such resolution or trust indenture to be performed by the authority or any officer thereof, including the fixing, charging, and collecting of revenues, fees, tolls, and other charges for the use of the facilities and services furnished.
Sec. 18. - Refunding bonds.
The authority is authorized to provide by resolution for the issue of revenue refunding bonds of the authority for the purpose of refunding any revenue bonds issued under the provisions of this Act and then outstanding, together with accrued interest thereon. The issuance of such revenue refunding bonds, the maturities and all other details thereof, the rights of the holders thereof, and the duties of the authority in respect to the same shall be governed by the foregoing provisions of this Act insofar as the same may be applicable.
Sec. 19. - Jurisdiction and venue.
Any action to protect or enforce any rights under the provisions of this Act or any suit or action against such authority shall be brought in the Superior Court of Jasper County, Georgia, and any action pertaining to validation of any bonds issued under the provisions of this Act shall likewise be brought in such court which shall have exclusive, original jurisdiction of such actions; provided, however, that the venue of any action against the authority shall be in the superior court of the county in which the power of the authority is exercised or services are provided by the authority if the act giving rise to such action is committed within such county.
Sec. 20. - Validation of revenue bonds.
Bonds of the authority shall be confirmed and validated in accordance with the procedure of O.C.G.A. § 36-82-60 et seq., the "Revenue Bond Law," as now or hereafter amended. The petition for validation shall also make defendant to such action any consolidated government, municipality, county, authority, subdivision, or instrumentality of the State of Georgia which has contracted with the authority to furnish or receive the services and facilities of the water and sewerage system for which bonds are to be issued and sought to be validated, and such consolidated government, municipality, county, authority, subdivision, or instrumentality shall be required to show cause, if any exists, why such contract or contracts and the terms and conditions thereof should not be inquired into by the court and the validity of the terms thereof be determined and the contract or contracts adjudicated as security for the payment of any such bonds of the authority. The bonds when validated, and the judgment of validation, shall be final and conclusive with respect to such bonds against the authority issuing the same and any municipality, county, authority, subdivision, or instrumentality contracting with the authority.
Sec. 21. - Interest of bondholders protected.
While any of the bonds issued by the authority remain outstanding, the powers, duties, or existence of the authority or of its officers, employees, or agents shall not be diminished or impaired in any manner that will affect adversely the interests and rights of the holders of such bonds, and no other entity, department, agency, or authority will be created which will compete with the authority to such an extent as to affect adversely the interests and rights of the holders of such bonds. The provisions of this Act shall be for the benefit of the authority and the holders of any such bonds and, upon the issuance of bonds under the provisions hereof, shall constitute a contract with the holders of such bonds.
Sec. 22. - Moneys received considered trust funds.
All moneys received pursuant to the authority of this Act, whether as proceeds from the sale of revenue bonds, as proceeds of short-term loans, as grants or other contributions, or as revenues, fees, and earnings, shall be deemed to be trust funds to be held and applied solely as provided in this Act.
Sec. 23. - Tax-exempt status of the authority.
The properties of the authority, both real and personal, are declared to be public properties used for the benefit and welfare of the people of the State of Georgia and not for purposes of private or corporate benefit and income, and such properties and the authority shall be exempt from all taxes and special assessments of any consolidated government, city, county, or the state or any political subdivision thereof.
Sec. 24. - Powers declared supplemental and additional.
The foregoing sections of this Act shall be deemed to provide an additional and alternative method for the doing of the things authorized thereby and shall be regarded as supplemental and additional to powers conferred by other laws and shall not be regarded as in derogation of any powers now existing.
ARTICLE IV. - HOMESTEAD EXEMPTIONS
DIVISION 1. - EXEMPTION ON HOMESTEAD FROM AD VALOREM TAXES[4]
modified

Footnotes:
--- (4) ---
Editor's note— Printed herein is 1992 Ga. Laws (Act No. 1239), page 6508, which provides an exemption on homesteads from ad valorem taxes. Amendments to the act are indicated by parenthetical history notes following amended provisions. The absence of a history note indicates that the provision remains unchanged from the original act. Obvious misspellings have been corrected without notation. For stylistic purposes, a uniform system of headings, catchlines and citations to state statutes has been used. Additions made for clarity are indicated by brackets.

Sec. 1. - Definitions.
For purposes of this Act, the term:
(1)
"Ad valorem taxes for county purposes" means all ad valorem taxes for county purposes levied by, for, or on behalf of Jasper County, except taxes to retire school bond indebtedness and county school district taxes for educational purposes.
(2)
"Homestead" means homestead as defined and qualified in O.C.G.A. § 48-5-40 and shall also include real property where the person who is the applicant holds real property subject to a written lease of not less than ten years in duration; the applicant has held the property subject to such a lease for not less than three years prior to the year for which application is made; and the applicant is the owner of all improvements located on the real property.
Sec. 2. - Amount of exemption.
Each resident of Jasper County is granted an exemption on that person's homestead from all Jasper County ad valorem taxes for county purposes in the amount of $8,000.00 of the assessed value of that homestead.
(1998 Ga. Laws, page 3829)
Sec. 3. - Application forms.
The tax commissioner of Jasper County or the designee thereof shall provide application forms for the exemption granted by this Act and shall require such information as may be necessary to determine the eligibility of the owner for the exemption.
Sec. 4. - Automatic yearly renewal; responsibility to notify county upon becoming ineligible.
The exemption shall be claimed and returned as provided in O.C.G.A. § 48-5-50.1. The exemption shall be automatically renewed from year to year as long as the owner occupies the residence as a homestead. It shall be the duty of any person granted the homestead exemption under this Act to notify the tax commissioner of Jasper County or the designee thereof in the event that person for any reason becomes ineligible for that exemption.
Sec. 5. - Other taxes not affected.
(a)
The exemption granted by this Act shall not apply to or affect any state taxes or municipal taxes.
(b)
The exemption granted by this Act shall be in lieu of any other homestead exemption from Jasper County ad valorem taxes for county purposes.
Editor's note— The original text of this act includes the phrase "or county school district taxes for educational purposes" after the words "taxes" in the second line. That phrase has been omitted from this compilation at the request of the county. The text of the original act remains as adopted by the legislature.
Sec. 6. - Effective date.
The exemption granted by this Act shall apply to all taxable years beginning on or after January 1, 1993.
DIVISION 2. - SUPPLEMENTAL HOMESTEAD EXEMPTIONS[5]
modified

Footnotes:
--- (5) ---
Editor's note— Printed herein is 1998 Ga. Laws (Act No. 622), page 3829, which provides for homestead exemptions which supplement applicable general law. Amendments to the act are indicated by parenthetical history notes following amended provisions. The absence of a history note indicates that the provision remains unchanged from the original act. Obvious misspellings have been corrected without notation. For stylistic purposes, a uniform system of headings, catchlines and citations to state statutes has been used. Additions made for clarity are indicated by brackets.

Sec. 1. - Amount of exemption.
Each resident of Jasper County who is entitled to a homestead exemption under the provisions of O.C.G.A. § 48-5-44, 48-5-47, or 48-5-52 is granted an exemption on that person's homestead from those Jasper County ad valorem taxes described in the applicable general law in the amount of $6,000.00 of the assessed value of that homestead. The value of that property in excess of such exempted amount shall remain subject to taxation. It is the intent of this Act to increase each homestead exemption provided for by general law by $6,000.00; it is not the intent of this Act to create a new homestead exemption.
Sec. 2. - Supplemental exemption.
(a)
Any person who, as of January 1, 1998, has applied for and is eligible for the $2,000.00 homestead exemption from county ad valorem taxes for county purposes pursuant to O.C.G.A. § 48-5-44 shall be eligible for the supplemental exemption granted by this Act without further application if that person has applied for and been eligible for the immediately preceding year for such exemption.
(b)
Any person who, as of January 1, 1998, is 65 or older and has applied for and is eligible for the $4,000.00 homestead exemption from state and county ad valorem taxes pursuant to O.C.G.A. § 48-5-47 shall be eligible for the supplemental exemption granted by this Act without further application if that person has applied for and been eligible for the immediately preceding year for such exemption. The supplemental exemption shall not affect state ad valorem taxes and shall only operate to increase the homestead exemption for the purposes of county ad valorem taxes.
(c)
Any person who, as of January 1, 1998, is 62 or over and has applied for and is eligible for the $4,000.00 homestead exemption from county ad valorem taxes for educational purposes, including taxes to retire school bond indebtedness, pursuant to O.C.G.A. § 48-5-52 shall be eligible for the supplemental exemption granted by this Act without further application if that person has applied for and been eligible for the immediately preceding year for such exemption.
Sec. 3. - Automatic yearly renewal; responsibility to notify county upon becoming ineligible.
The exemption shall be claimed and returned as provided in O.C.G.A. § 48-5-50.1. The exemption shall be automatically renewed from year to year as long as the applicant occupies the residence as a homestead. After a person has filed for the applicable exemption, it shall not be necessary for such person to file thereafter for any year, and the exemption shall continue to be allowed to such person unless and until such person no longer meets the criteria set forth in the applicable general law for such exemption. It shall be the duty of any person granted the homestead exemption under this Act to notify the tax commissioner of Jasper County or the designee thereof in the event that such person for any reason becomes ineligible for that exemption.
Sec. 4. - (Reserved).
Editor's note— Section 4 of 1998 Ga. Laws, page 3829, increased the homestead exemption from county ad valorem taxes provided by 1992 Ga. Laws, page 6508, to $8,000.00.
Sec. 5. - Effective date.
The exemption granted by this Act shall apply to all taxable years beginning on or after January 1, 1999.
ARTICLE V. - COUNTY DEPOSITORY[6]
modified

Footnotes:
--- (6) ---
Editor's note— Printed herein is 1983 Ga. Laws (Act No. 479), page 4605, which abolished the office of treasurer and provided for appointment of a depository. Amendments to the act are indicated by parenthetical history notes following amended provisions. The absence of a history note indicates that the provision remains unchanged from the original act. Obvious misspellings have been corrected without notation. For stylistic purposes, a uniform system of headings, catchlines and citations to state statutes has been used. Additions made for clarity are indicated by brackets.
State Law reference— Designation of depository, O.C.G.A. § 45-8-14.

Sec. 1. - Office of treasurer abolished.
Effective December 31, 1984, or upon a vacancy occurring in the office of treasurer of Jasper County prior to that date, the office of treasurer of Jasper County shall stand abolished.
Sec. 2. - Annual appointment of depositories.
The governing authority of Jasper County annually shall appoint a depository or depositories of all funds of Jasper County. All county funds which were paid to the treasurer shall be paid to the clerk of the board of commissioners of Jasper County and shall be deposited in said county depository or depositories.
Sec. 3. - Clerk responsible for county funds.
The clerk of the board of commissioners of Jasper County shall exercise all the duties, responsibilities, powers, and functions relative to the receiving and transferring of county funds heretofore exercised by the treasurer. The clerk of the board of commissioners shall hold no other elective or appointive office.
ARTICLE VI. - TAX COMMISSIONER[7]
modified

Footnotes:
--- (7) ---
Editor's note— Printed herein is 1935 Ga. Laws (Act No. 328), page 703, which established the office of tax commissioner. Amendments to the act are indicated by parenthetical history notes following amended provisions. The absence of a history note indicates that the provision remains unchanged from the original act. Obvious misspellings have been corrected without notation. For stylistic purposes, a uniform system of headings, catchlines and citations to state statutes has been used. Additions made for clarity are indicated by brackets.

Sec. 1. - Consolidation of offices.
That, in accordance with and by authority of an amendment to the Constitution of the State of Georgia, approved August 18th, 1924, and ratified at the general election of 1924, the offices and duties of the tax-receiver and of the tax-collector of Jasper County, Georgia, shall, on and after the first day of January, 1937, be and they are hereby consolidated into one office to be known as county tax-commissioner of Jasper County, Georgia.
Sec. 2. - Tax-commissioner; duties.
That the office of county tax-commissioner of Jasper County, Georgia, is hereby created; and the rights, duties, and liabilities of the office of county tax-commissioner of Jasper County, Georgia, shall be the same as the rights, duties, and liabilities of the tax-receiver's and the tax-collector's offices of said county as heretofore existing; and all laws applicable to the offices of tax-collector and tax-receiver shall apply to the office of county tax-commissioner of Jasper County, Georgia, so far as the same are applicable and not inconsistent with the provisions of this Act.
Sec. 3. - Term of office.
That the County Tax-Commissioner of Jasper County, Georgia, shall hold office for a term of four years, beginning on January 1, 1937, and shall be elected at the general election to be held in said county in the year 1936 for the election of State and county officers, and at the general election every four years thereafter, at the same time and place and under the same rules and regulations prescribed by law for the election of the clerk of the Superior Court and other county officers.
Sec. 4. - Oath.
That before entering upon the discharge of the duties of this office, either as appointee or elected in accordance with the terms of this Act, the county tax-commissioner shall take and subscribe to the oath now required by tax-collectors.
Sec. 5. - Bond.
That the County Tax-Commissioner of Jasper County, Georgia, whether by election or appointment, at the time of entering upon the duties of said office shall give good and solvent bond with security as follows:
(a)
A bond and security payable to his Excellency, the Governor of Georgia, and his successors in office, in a sum equal to one half of the estimated State taxes to be due from Jasper County for the period for which said officer is required to give bond, which shall be filled in by the Comptroller-general of Georgia before being sent out for execution from the Executive office and to be conditioned as bonds of tax-collectors for State taxes are now conditioned and approved required of tax-collector's bonds.
(b)
A bond and security payable to the Ordinary of Jasper County, Georgia, and his successors in office, conditioned for the faithful performance of his duties as such county tax-commissioner in a sum to be fixed by the board of Commissioners of Jasper County, Georgia, which shall not be less than one half the amount of county taxes estimated by the Board of Commissioners of Roads and Revenues of Jasper County, Georgia, that will be due for the term for which said bond is fixed, and shall be secured by a reliable surety company acceptable to the county commissioners and approved by them and the Ordinary of Jasper County, Georgia, and shall be filed and recorded in the office of the Ordinary of Jasper County, Georgia.
(c)
If said county tax-commissioner, whether elected or appointed, shall fail or neglect to give and file said bond, as hereinabove required, within ten (10) days from the time of the beginning of the discharge of the duties of this office, the Board of Commissioners of Roads and Revenues of Jasper County, Georgia, shall declare a vacancy in this office, which vacancy shall be filled in the manner provided for the filling of vacancies by the terms of this Act.
(d)
The premiums on the above required bonds shall be paid by the County of Jasper, just as other county expenses are paid.
Sec. 6. - Salary.
(a)
The Tax Commissioner of Jasper County shall be compensated as provided pursuant to the applicable salary provisions of general law.
(b)
The tax commissioner shall diligently and faithfully undertake to collect all fees, forfeitures, commissions, costs, allowances, penalties, funds, moneys, and all other emoluments and perquisites formerly allowed him or her as compensation for services in any capacity, and shall receive and hold the same in trust for said county as public moneys and shall pay the same into the county treasury on or before the 15th day of each month next following the month in which they were collected or received. At the time of each such monthly payment into the county treasury, the tax commissioner shall furnish the governing authority of the county a detailed, itemized statement, under oath, of all such funds received during the preceding month by such officer and paid into the county treasury. The statement shall show the respective amounts of money collected and the source thereof.
(c)
The tax commissioner shall be authorized to employ such assistants and other personnel as may be approved by the governing authority of Jasper County to assist in the performance of the duties of the tax commissioner's office. The compensation of such assistants and personnel shall be fixed by the governing authority of the county. It shall be within the sole power of the tax commissioner to name the persons to be employed as such assistants and personnel, to prescribe their duties and powers, and to remove or replace them with within his or her sole discretion and authority.
(d)
All expenses of the tax commissioner's office, expressly including the compensation of personnel, shall be paid from any funds of the county available for such purpose. All supplies, materials, furnishings, furniture, utilities, and equipment, and the repair, replacement, and maintenance thereof, as may be reasonably required in discharging the official duties of said office, shall be furnished by the county and shall be paid from any funds of the county available for such purpose. The determination of such requirements shall be at the sole discretion of the governing authority of Jasper County.
(1937 Ga. Laws (Act No. 441), page 1352, § 1; 1975 Ga. Laws (Act No. 99), page 2768, § 1; 2008 Ga. Laws (Act No. 642), page 4088)
Sec. 7. - Collection of taxes.
That all taxes that are due and payable at the time the provisions of this Act become effective, and all tax fi. fas. theretofore issued and uncollected by the tax-collector of Jasper County, Georgia, shall have full force and effect and be collectible as issued by said county tax-commissioner.
Sec. 8. - Purpose of act.
That it is the purpose and intent of this Act to put into effect in Jasper County the provisions of article 11, section 3, paragraph 1, of the Constitution of this State, authorizing the consolidation of the offices of tax-receiver and tax-collector, and to provide that all compensation, fees, commissions, and forfeitures under existing laws, or as may be hereafter provided, as compensation for the services of tax-receivers, shall become the general funds of Jasper County, Georgia, and be paid to the county treasurer or designated depository except the commissions allowed the tax-receiver for receiving the State taxes, which shall be paid into the general funds of the State; and to provide that the compensation, fees, commissions, and forfeitures under existing laws, or as may be hereafter provided as compensation for the services of tax-collectors, shall be paid to the said tax-commissioner as his compensation or salary.
Sec. 9. - Vacancy.
That if a vacancy for any cause occurs in said office of county tax-commissioner, it shall be filled in the following manner:
(a)
If a vacancy occurs within six months prior to the expiration of the existing term, the Board of Commissioners of Roads and Revenues of Jasper County, Georgia, shall by a majority vote appoint some qualified person to discharge the duties of the office of county tax-commissioner for said County of Jasper for the remainder of said term, who shall execute the oath and bond prescribed by the terms of this Act; and said appointee shall receive as his compensation the pro rata part of the salary of said officer for the time so filled by him.
(b)
Should a vacancy occur prior to six months of the expiration of the existing term, the Board of Commissioners of Roads and Revenues of Jasper County, Georgia, shall by a majority vote appoint some qualified person to discharge the duties of said office until a county tax-commissioner is elected at a special election called to fill said vacancy, and advise the ordinary of said vacancy, who shall call a special election to fill said vacancy for the remainder of said term, which special election shall be held not earlier than twenty (20) days after notice so given to said ordinary and not later than forty (40) days after said vacancy occurs. The ordinary shall give ten (10) days notice of the date of said election, by publication in the legal gazette of Jasper County, Georgia, and by posting a notice on the bulletin-board in the county court-house of Jasper County, Georgia; and the person elected shall make oath and give bond as required of regularly elected county Tax-Commissioners of Jasper County, Georgia, and shall receive the pro rata part of the salary for the remainder of said year for which the salary had been fixed, and shall perform the duties of said office for said unexpired term; and the returns of said election shall be made to the Governor, who shall commission the person receiving a majority of the qualified legal votes cast in said election.
(c)
Should there be more than two candidates and neither receiving a majority of the legal votes cast, the ordinary shall call another election or elections to fill said vacancy until a majority is obtained.
Sec. 10. - Invalidity of part of act.
That each section of this Act and each part thereof is hereby declared to be independent sections and parts of sections, and the holding of any section or any part of a section to be void or ineffective for any cause shall not affect any other section of this Act or part of a section.
Sec. 11. - Referendum.
That before this Act shall go into effect the same shall be ratified at an election to be held on the tenth day of April, 1935, notice of which election shall be published in the Monticello News for the space of ten (10) days prior to said election, by a majority of the qualified voters of Jasper County, Georgia, who vote as hereinafter provided. The ballot furnished the voter in this referendum shall have printed thereon the following: "For Consolidating offices of Tax-Receiver and Tax-Collector, and creating office of Tax-Commissioner," and "Against Consolidating offices of Tax-Receiver and Tax-Collector, and creating office of Tax-Commissioner." The ballots in said election shall be turned over to the ordinary of Jasper County, and the result of said election be declared by him. Said election shall be held in connection with and at the same time as any other special election required by law to be held on said date and all questions required by any local bill or bills to be submitted to the people on the same date may be submitted on one ballot.
SPECIAL ACTS/RELATED LAWS COMPARATIVE TABLE
GEORGIA LAWS
This table shows the location of the sections of the basic Charter and any amendments thereto.
EXPAND
Ga. Laws
Year Act No. Page Section Section
this Charter
1937 441 1352 1 Art. VI, § 6
1975 99 2768 1 Art. VI, § 6
1998 3829 Art. IV, Div. 1,
§ 2
2008 634 4036 1(1)—1(16) Art. I, § 1—
Art. I, § 16
642 4088 Art. VI, § 6
