LOS ANGELES COUNTY CODE
1987
VOLUMES 1—8
A Codification of the General Ordinances
of Los Angeles County, California
Under the Auspices of the Board of Supervisors
Gloria Molina, First District
Mark Ridley-Thomas, Second District
Zev Yaroslavsky, Third District
Don Knabe, Fourth District
Michael D. Antonovich, Fifth District
EXPAND
The Executive Officer
of the Board of Supervisors The County Counsel
John Krattli
Sachi A. Hamai
  Codified, Indexed and Published by
THE LOS ANGELES COUNTY CODE
1987
VOLUME 1
A Codification of the General Ordinances
of Los Angeles County, California
Codified, Indexed and Published by
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Volume 1
Charter
Title 1 General Provisions
Title 2 Administration
Title 3 Advisory Commissions and Committees
Title 4 Revenue and Finance
Volume 2
Title 5 Personnel
Title 6 Salaries
Volume 3
Title 7 Business Licenses
Title 8 Consumer Protection and Business Regulations
Title 9 (Reserved)
Volume 4
Title 10 Animals
Title 11 Health and Safety
Title 12 Environmental Protection
Title 13 Public Peace, Morals and Welfare
Title 14 (Reserved)
Volume 5
Title 15 Vehicles and Traffic
Title 16 Highways
Title 17 Parks, Beaches and Other Public Areas
Title 18 (Reserved)
Title 19 Airports and Harbors
Title 20 Utilities
Flood Control District Code
Volume 6
Title 21 Subdivisions
Title 22 Planning and Zoning
Titles 23—25 (Reserved)
Volume 7
Title 26 Building Code
Title 27 Electrical Code
Title 28 Plumbing Code
Title 29 Mechanical Code
Title 30 Residential Code
Title 31 Green Building Standards Code
Title 32 Fire Code
Volume 8
Index of Major Subjects
Ordinance List and Disposition Table
PREFACE
Volume 1 of the Los Angeles County Code is a codification of the general and permanent ordinances of Los Angeles County, California, published in 1987 by Book Publishing Company.
During original codification, the ordinances were compiled, edited and indexed by the editorial staff of Book Publishing Company under the direction of the office of the County Counsel of Los Angeles County. The Los Angeles County Code is being kept current with regular supplementation by Municipal Code Corporation.
PUBLISHER'S NOTE
The Los Angeles County Code is organized by subject matter under an expandable, three-factor decimal numbering system which is designed to facilitate future changes with minimum disturbance to current regulations. Each section number includes in its sequence the title, chapter and section number. For example, Section 1.04.030 is Section 30 (.030) in Chapter 4 (.04) of Title 1. In most instances, sections are numbered by tens (.010, .020, .030, etc.), leaving nine vacant positions between original sections to accommodate new provisions. Chapters and titles are also numbered to provide for expansion.
In parentheses following each code section is a legislative history note, which lists all ordinances which have affected that section since the date of original enactment.
Footnotes to statutory provisions and to related code provisions in other code volumes appear at the end of each title.
A subject-matter index covering all of the provisions of this volume and locating subjects by code section number is set out at the end of the volume.
A complete Ordinance List and Disposition Table is set forth in Volume 8 of the code; it lists all the county's ordinances, gives an outline of their contents and subjects, and indicates the chapter of the code where each ordinance's provisions appear.
