Chapter 2.118 - FILMING PERMIT COORDINATION OFFICE
Sections:

2.118.010 - Continuation of office—Operation.
There is continued within the county a filming permit coordination office hereinafter referred to as the "office," which shall be managed and operated in such a manner as is determined by the board of supervisors without need for further amendment to the ordinance codified in this chapter.
(Ord. 90-0093 § 3, 1990.)
2.118.020 - Filming permit coordination office—Duties.
The office shall:
A.
Coordinate with county departments and districts the approval and issuance of all facility usage permits required to film on county or district property, and cooperate with the Museum of Art, Museum of Natural History, and Arboreta and Botanic Gardens with regard to coordinating the issuance of permits for filming at facilities of the Arboreta and Botanic Gardens, Museum of Art and Museum of Natural History under Section 2.118.070
B.
Coordinate with county departments and districts the approval and issuance of all regulatory permits for on-location filming;
C.
Coordinate the approval and collection of all fees with the necessary county department and districts as required by county or district policy;
D.
Reimburse the departments and districts involved for services provided, rental fees or other costs incurred by the departments or districts in connection with film permits;
E.
Investigate minor complaints and assist in the resolution of minor disputes between the film industry and county agencies concerning filming in Los Angeles County; however, if the issues are major in nature, the office shall consult with the filming advisory committee in the resolution of these issues;
F.
Develop and administer programs to promote the development of the filming industry in Los Angeles County;
G.
Cooperate with other governmental agencies seeking to promote the development of the film industry in Los Angeles County to fully recover all county costs involved in the operations of the office;
H.
Periodically review and recommend, if necessary, changes in the schedule of application fees and use and service charges to fully recover all county costs involved in the operations of this office;
I.
Provide technical assistance and resource material to permit applicants and individuals or organizations desiring to conduct a motion picture, television company or photography business in Los Angeles County;
J.
Consult with and advise other county departments, districts and the board of supervisors in all matters relating to filming, including but not limited to, recommended changes and improvements in legislation, policies, procedures and methods;
K.
Coordinate with county agencies the periodic review of the county's filming permit processing system and make recommendations to the board of supervisors regarding ways to increase the system's efficiency and effectiveness;
L.
Review, approve, and issue permits for on-location filming on private property in the county, as authorized by Title 22 of this code, the zoning ordinance;
M.
Perform such other duties as may be prescribed by the board of supervisors;
N.
Develop records, reports, and statistical data, including but not limited to, complaints, types, and number of permits, violations and area filming schedules.
(Ord. 91-0018 § 1, 1991; Ord. 90-0093 § 4, 1990.)
2.118.030 - Filming permit coordination office—Departmental responsibilities.
A.
Affected departments or districts shall expeditiously process all filming permit clearance requests referred to them by the office for approval.
B.
Each department or district shall assist the office in the completion of studies relative to the efficiency and effectiveness of the county filming permit system, including, but not limited to, county policies, fees, regulation, procedures and legislation.
C.
Departments and districts shall cooperate with the office in its efforts to coordinate and revise the permit process, procedures, rules and regulations.
D.
Departments and districts shall cooperate with and assist the office in the accomplishment of its duties.
E.
Each regulatory department and district will periodically review and prepare detailed rules, procedures and requirements for filming in areas under their jurisdiction and transmit this data to the office in a format which can be distributed to the filming permit applicant.
(Ord. 90-0093 § 5, 1990; Ord. 89-0026 § 1 (part), 1989.)
2.118.040 - Film permit—Reconsideration request.
A department or district may fail to clear a film permit application in whole or in part; however, the office may request the department, after a review with the applicant, to reconsider its rejection, but shall have no authority to reverse a departmental or district decision.
(Ord. 90-0093 § 6, 1990; Ord. 89-0026 § 1 (part), 1989.)
2.118.050 - Office to be self-supporting—Cost-recovery fee schedule.
A.
The office shall, by January 1, 1993, be fully self-supporting through cost-recovery fees, which shall be periodically and as necessary, increased or, alternatively, services shall be reduced to ensure that no county costs are incurred.
B.
The fee levels shall be as follows:
1.
Application to the film permit coordination office shall be subject to an administration fee of $315.00 for each filming, and a $100.00 annual registration fee for stills.
2.
On January 1, 1993 and each succeeding January 1st thereafter, the amount of each fee shall be adjusted as follows: by calculating the percentage movement in the Consumer Price Index for All Urban Wage Earners and Clerical Workers for the Los Angeles Area as compiled by the United States Department of Labor, Bureau of Labor Statistics during the preceding January through December period, adjusting each fee by said percentage amount and rounding off to the nearest dollar. However, no adjustment shall increase any fee in excess of the reasonable cost of providing services; provided further, however, that no adjustment shall be made to decrease any existing fee.
3.
Subsequent increases or decreases in application fees and use and service charges may be made from time to time by the board of supervisors without amendment to the ordinance codified in this chapter.
C.
In those instances where the board of supervisors, by resolution or order, determines it to be in the public interest to accept applications without a fee, the filming permit office shall accept such applications subject to the requirements specified in such resolution or order.
D.
In addition to the film permit coordination office administration and annual registration fees provided in subsection A of this section, the following fees shall accompany applications as specified:
1.
Riders for filming permit, $20.00;
2.
Riders for stills, $15.00;
3.
County facilities, filming, $400.00 per day;
4.
County facilities, set days and strike days, $100.00 per day;
5.
For the purpose of this section, "county facilities" excludes property in the Museum of Art, Museum of Natural History, arboreta and botanical gardens and flood control district, which facilities shall require such use charges as may be set by the board of supervisors.
(Ord. 92-0031 § 1, 1992; Ord. 90-0093 § 8, 1990.)
2.118.060 - Film permit—Rider defined.
For the purposes of this chapter a "rider" to a film permit is defined as a minor addition, change or deletion to the permit, as determined by the officer.
(Ord. 90-0093 § 9, 1990; Ord. 89-0026 § 1 (part), 1989.)
2.118.070 - Permits for filming at Arboreta and Botanic Gardens, Museum of Art and Museum of Natural History.
A.
Permits for filming at facilities of the Arboreta and Botanic Gardens, Museum of Art and Museum of Natural History shall be issued, and fees charged and collected therefor, at each facility and the filming permit coordination office in accordance with the provisions of this section.
B.
Applications for filming permits shall be administered and permits issued by the filming permit coordination office in accordance with subsection A of Section 2.118.020. Applications shall be subject to an administration fee of $200.00 for each filming and a $100.00 annual registration fee for stills in accordance with and subject to any adjustments to such fees as provided in subsection B of Section 2.118.050. The annual registration fee for stills shall not be required of an applicant who has previously paid the annual registration fee for stills for such period under subsection B1 of Section 2.118.050
C.
In addition to the administration and annual registration fees provided in subsection B of this section, fees for filming at facilities of the Arboreta and Botanic Gardens, Museum of Art or Museum of Natural History shall be charged and collected, and all filming at such facilities shall be administered, as provided by contracts approved by the board of supervisors with the nonprofit private support organizations of the Arboreta and Botanic Gardens, Museum of Art or Museum of Natural History, as the case may be, or by order of the board. Fees charged for filming at such facilities shall be in accordance with this section and such other rates and/or schedules as are approved by the board of supervisors.
(Ord. 91-0018 § 2, 1991.)
