Chapter 2.08 - DEPARTMENT OF CHIEF ADMINISTRATIVE OFFICER
Sections:

2.08.010 - Department and position created—Names.
There is created a department of the county of Los Angeles, which shall be known and designated as the "department of the chief executive officer" (hereinafter referred in this chapter as "department"). Whenever the term "chief administrative officer" is used in this code, it shall be deemed to mean "chief executive officer."
(Ord. 2007-0062 § 1, 2007: Ord. 7636 § 3, 1959: Ord. 5680 § 1 (part), 1951: Ord. 4099 Art. 6 § 118, 1942.)
2.08.030 - Vacancy filling—Assistant chief authority.
Whenever the office of chief administrative officer is vacant, the assistant chief administrative officer shall, until the vacancy is filled in the manner provided by the Charter of this county, act as and perform and discharge all of the duties of the chief administrative officer, with like authority and subject to the same obligation and penalties as the said chief administrative officer.
(Ord. 7636 § 5, 1959: Ord. 7258 § 1, 1957: Ord. 4099 Art. 6 § 118.5, 1942.)
2.08.040 - Duties generally—Supervision by board.
Under the supervision of the board of supervisors, and subject to its direction, the matters set out in Chapter 2.08 shall be the duty of the chief administrative officer.
(Ord. 95-0052 § 1, 1995: Ord. 4099 Art. 6 § 119, 1942.)
2.08.050 - Administrative supervision and control.
It shall be the duty of the chief administrative officer to execute, on behalf of the board of supervisors, its administrative supervision and control of the affairs of the county placed in his/her charge by said board, and of all departments, services, institutions and districts of the county as for whom or for which the board of supervisors of the county is required by law to adopt an annual budget, except the sheriff, the assessor, the district attorney and the civil service commission; to attend meetings of the board of supervisors with the right to report on or to discuss any matter before said board concerning the affairs of the departments, services, institutions or districts under his/her supervision; to assist the board of supervisors in coordinating the functions and operations of the several such departments, services, institutions or departments of the county, and on behalf of said board of supervisors to administer, enforce and carry out the policies, rules, regulations and ordinances of the board of supervisors relating to the administration of such departments, services, institutions or districts of the county.
(Ord. 95-0052 § 2, 1995: Ord. 5896 § 1 (part), 1952: Ord. 5680 § 1 (part), 1951: Ord. 4099 Art. 6 § 120, 1942.)
2.08.060 - Coordination of departmental administration.
It shall be the duty of the chief administrative officer to coordinate the administration of all departments, services, institutions or districts under his/her supervision, and to accomplish said purpose he/she is hereby given the power and authority, pursuant to orders of the board of supervisors, to transfer equipment, machinery, furnishings or supplies from one department service, institution or district to another; and to make recommendations to the board of supervisors and the director of personnel for the temporary transfer of such personnel as in his/her judgment is necessary from time to time to enable the respective departments, services, institutions or districts to perform their functions or accomplish their work with the greatest efficiency.
(Ord. 95-0052 § 3, 1995: Ord. 9246 § 9 (part), 1967: Ord. 5896 § 1 (part), 1952: Ord. 5680 § 1 (part), 1951: Ord. 4099 Art. 6 § 123, 1942.)
2.08.070 - Reserved.
2.08.090 - Estimates of expenditures.
Subject to the rules, regulations and ordinances of the board of supervisors, it shall be the duty of the chief administrative officer to cause to be prepared and submitted to him/her by each department, service, institution or district under his/her jurisdiction, itemized annual estimates of expenditures required by such department, service, institution or district for salaries and wages, maintenance and operation, and capital outlay; to submit to the board of supervisors his recommendation on the annual tabulation of estimates submitted to the board of supervisors by the county auditor; to make recommendations to said board of supervisors on any and all proposed additions, increases, decreases or changes which may be made on any of the items or amounts in the preliminary budget before the adoption of the final budget by the board of supervisors; to recommend to the board of supervisors the cancellation or transfer of any items in the final budget adopted by said board of supervisors which the chief administrative officer may deem advisable, expedient or advantageous to the best interests of the county or district, as the case may be.
(Ord. 95-0052 § 5, 1995: Ord. 11673 § 1 (part), 1978: Ord. 5896 § 1 (part), 1952: Ord. 5680 § 1 (part), 1951: Ord. 4099 Art. 6 § 121, 1942.)
2.08.100 - Supervision of expenditures.
As agent of the board of supervisors, it shall be the duty of the chief administrative officer to supervise the expenditures of all departments, services, institutions or districts placed under his/her supervision by Ordinance 4099, and also the departments of the sheriff, district attorney, assessor, and civil service commission; to report to the board of supervisors on whether such expenditures are necessary in his/her opinion for the current needs of such departments, services, institutions or districts; to report to the board on any proposed purchase by any department, service, institution or district from funds appropriated thereto for capital outlay which in his/her judgment should not be made. In order that the chief administrative officer may make such report, every proposed purchase from capital outlay by any such department, service, institution or district of the county shall first be submitted to said chief administrative officer by the officer, person, board or commission in charge of said department, service, institution or district. If the chief administrative officer disapproves any such proposed purchase, the officer, person, board or commission which is the administrative head of such department, service, institution or district proposing to make such expenditure shall refrain from making such purchase for a period of 15 days from such disapproval.
(Ord. 95-0052 § 6, 1995: Ord. 5896 § 1 (part), 1952: Ord. 5680 § 1 (part), 1951: Ord. 4099 Art. 6 § 122, 1942.)
2.08.115 - Employer-employee relations.
A.
The chief administrative officer shall make reports and recommendations to the board of supervisors with respect to the compensation and benefits of county employees and the administration of rules and procedures to be followed in the county's employer-employee relationships.
B.
The chief administrative officer, after consultation with representatives of affected employee organizations, affected department heads or management representatives, and other interested persons, may:
1.
Adopt and promulgate rules and regulations governing the activity of certified employee organizations on county property, including, but not limited to, procedures for conferring with management, use of bulletin boards and other available county facilities, and solicitation of membership. Any affected certified employee organization or certified council of employee organizations shall have the right to appeal to the Los Angeles County employee relations commission any rule or rules adopted pursuant to this provision applicable to the employee representation unit for which the organization or council is certified;
2.
Adopt and promulgate rules and regulations governing the county's employer-employee relationships, including, but not limited to, procedures for the registration of all employee organizations, use of available county facilities by employee organizations, and such other rules and regulations necessary for the uniform administration of the county's employer-employee relationships.
C.
The chief administrative officer shall, on behalf on the county, conduct and engage in all negotiations, meet-and-confer sessions, and consultations with recognized bargaining units and certified employee organizations in accordance with the directions and instructions of the board of supervisors and within the scope of authority granted by said board.
(Ord. 94-0094P § 5, 1994; Ord. 12296 § 1, 1981: Ord. 4099 Art. 6 § 126.1, 1942.)
2.08.120 - Authority to call for assistance.
The chief administrative officer may call upon any officer or employee in any department, service, institution or district under his/her supervision to perform any service which such officer or employee is legally authorized or required to perform, to assist in carrying out any of the powers and duties vested by this chapter in the chief administration officer.
(Ord. 95-0052 § 7, 1995: Ord. 5896 § 1 (part), 1951: Ord. 5680 § 1 (part), 1951: Ord. 4099 Art. 6 § 125, 1942.)
2.08.130 - Repair and maintenance of quarters.
Every county officer and department shall perform or cause to be performed such management, maintenance and repairs on quarters occupied by such officer or department and other quarters for the management, maintenance or repair of which either the county (or a district of which the board of supervisors is, or in its ex officio capacity is, the governing body), is responsible, as the chief administrative officer finds to be most feasible.
(Ord. 5896 § 1 (part), 1952: Ord. 5680 § 1 (part), 1951: Ord. 5221 § 3, 1948: Ord. 4099 Art. 6 § 124.9, 1942.)
2.08.140 - Powers of county officers not divested.
No provision of Ordinance 4099 shall be deemed or construed to grant any authority to, or impose any duty upon, the chief administrative officer which is vested or imposed by general law or the Charter of the county of Los Angeles in or on any other county officer, board, commission, department or employee.
(Ord. 4099 Art. 6 § 126, 1942.)
2.08.142 - Chief of protocol.
There is created the position of chief of protocol, which provides liaison with the Consular Corps, other protocol offices and the community at large, and organizes, formalizes, and extends protocol activities to enhance foreign investment, trade and international understanding and goodwill. The office of protocol supports the chief of protocol's mission.
1.
Under the direction of the chief executive officer, the chief of protocol may solicit, accept and recognize, or reject, gifts to support and fund protocol purposes and activities. Such gifts may be accepted, subject to the requirements of Government Code section 25355, and any policy established by the Board of Supervisors related to the acceptance of gifts. Such gifts may be used for protocol activities including recognition events and hospitality, subject to the availability of donated funds. From such donated funds, the chief of protocol, under the direction of the chief executive officer, may purchase services, furnishings, materials, supplies, fixtures, equipment, and other personal property needed for protocol purposes and activities.
(Ord. 2007-0083 § 1, 2007: Ord. 83-0167 § 1, 1983.)
2.08.150 - Acquisition of property—Administration of transactions.
Except as otherwise expressly delegated by the board of supervisors the chief administrative officer shall administer and negotiate for the board of supervisors all transactions pertaining to purchases, sales, dedications, leases or rentals of real property or any interest therein, to or by either the county or any public entity of which the board of supervisors is ex officio the governing body, including concessions and space allocations of property owned by or in the possession of the county or any such public entity.
(Ord. 95-0052 § 8, 1995.)
2.08.151 - Assistance to county counsel.
Where property is being acquired by eminent domain by the county or by any public entity of which the board of supervisors is ex officio the governing body, if requested to do so by the county counsel, the chief administrative officer may assist in negotiations for settlement and in the service of papers.
(Ord. 95-0052 § 9, 1995.)
2.08.152 - Property leasing—Procedure generally—Provisions adopted by reference.
A.
Pursuant to Government Code Section 25537, the alternate procedure hereinafter set forth is adopted for the leasing of real property belonging to the county of Los Angeles in those cases where the object of such leasing is to provide for the use of the property for such public purposes as are authorized by law, and where the performance of the obligations of the proposed lease will require financial responsibility and management experience upon the part of the lessee.
B.
The provisions of Government Code Sections 25526 through 25530 and Government Code Sections 25533 through 25535 relating to the leasing of real property are adopted by reference as though set forth in full in this section, except that the final acceptance of any bid may be made at any meeting held within 21 days after receipt of the bid or within such longer period as may be deemed reasonable by the board of supervisors, and except that no oral bids will be accepted, and leases shall be awarded in each case to the responsible bidder who makes the highest sealed proposal; provided, that the board of supervisors may in any case reject all proposals.
C.
In addition to the provisions adopted by reference in subsection B of this section, there may be included in any resolution of intention to lease county property, and the notice thereof, a request that all prospective bidders supply information upon their financial responsibility and management experience, and other information relevant to the proposed lease, by a time specified in the resolution and notice, which may be either prior to, concurrent with or subsequent to the date for receipt of proposals, and which information shall be in such detail and form as may be specified by the chief administrative officer or other officer having administrative jurisdiction over the leasing of the particular property involved. In addition, the resolution and notice may specify that each bidder shall submit a bid, signature or proposal bond or other assurance, security or guaranty that the bidder, if successful, will execute the proposed lease in accordance with the terms of his/her bid. The amount and form of the bond or other assurance, security or guaranty which may be required shall be specified in the resolution and notice.
D.
In the event that two or more equal proposals of responsible bidders are received, the lease shall be awarded to that bidder who, in the judgment of the board of supervisors, is best qualified to manage and operate the property to be leased, taking into account financial responsibility, management experience and such other factors as the board of supervisors may deem relevant and material, and, in the event that the board of supervisors is unable to ascertain the bidder best qualified to manage and operate the property to be leased, then the lease shall be awarded to one of such two or more responsible bidders submitting equal proposals by such other method as the board of supervisors may at the time find to be reasonable and proper.
E.
Nothing in this code shall be deemed to prevent the leasing of county property pursuant to Government Code Sections 25536, 25515, 26227 et seq., or Section 25549.1 et seq.; nor shall anything in this chapter be deemed to prevent the leasing of county property pursuant to Government Code Sections 25526 through 25535 in those cases wherein the proposed lease is not for the effectuation of a public purpose through management and operation of the leasehold by a lessee possessing financial responsibility and management experience, and the alternate procedure provided in this chapter encompasses the same.
(Ord. 95-0052 § 10, 1995.)
2.08.153 - Property leasing—10-year leases.
The chief administrative officer, in recommending to the board of supervisors that it enter into any lease, either as lessee or lessor, for a term of 10 years or more shall clearly state in his/her communication to the board of supervisors, "This proposes a lease for a term of 10 years," or "This proposes a lease for a term of more than 10 years, to wit, for a term of years," as the case may be.
(Ord. 95-0052 § 11, 1995.)
2.08.154 - Property leasing—Report by real estate management commission.
The board of supervisors shall not enter into any lease for a term of 10 years or longer, whether the county is the lessee or lessor, until it has received and considered the report on such proposed lease by the real estate management commission. This section does not require the board of supervisors to follow the recommendations of the real estate management commission.
(Ord. 95-0052 § 12, 1995.)
2.08.158 - Sale of real property—Lease during negotiations.
Pending a sale made by negotiations pursuant to Section 2.08.157 of this chapter, the chief administrative officer may lease the real property by direct negotiation on behalf of the county on a month-to-month tenancy, but in no event for more than 12 months without first obtaining the approval of the board of supervisors.
(Ord. 95-0052 § 16, 1995.)
2.08.159 - Minor leases.
A.
Anything in this chapter to the contrary notwithstanding, the taking of bids is not required in the case of leases or amendments to leases of a duration not exceeding 10 years and having an estimated rental value of not more than $5,000.00 per month. Where the bidding procedure is not used, the monthly rental in the executed lease shall not exceed $5,000.00 per month, the term of the executed lease shall not exceed 10 years, and the lease is not renewable. The chief administrative officer is authorized to execute leases or amendments to leases excluded from the bidding procedure pursuant to this section.
B.
Pursuant to Government Code Sections 25537 and 25538.1, the chief administrative officer is authorized to act on behalf of the board of supervisors with respect to the lease of any real property of the county where the total rental to be paid to the county pursuant to the lease or any lease amendment does not exceed $75,000.00, provided the chief administrative officer accepts the highest proposal for the proposed lease submitted in response to a call for bids posted in at least three public places for not less than 15 days and published for not less than two weeks in a newspaper of general circulation or rejects all bids.
(Ord. 95-0052 § 17, 1995.)
2.08.160 - Purchase of real property—$75,000.00 or less.
Pursuant to the authority granted by California Government Code section 25350.60, the Chief Executive Officer is authorized to perform all acts necessary to approve and accept for the County the acquisition of any interest in real property where the purchase price for such interest does not exceed $75,000.00, in accordance with the following specified procedures:
A.
Establishment of Purchase Price. The purchase price, if any, must be based on a summary of just compensation and may be adjusted only with the written concurrence of County Counsel. The summary of just compensation shall be prepared in accordance with generally recognized real estate appraisal principles. The preparation of the summary of just compensation and the negotiations shall be performed in accordance with Government Code sections 7260 et seq.
B.
Environmental Clearance. The purchase may not be consummated prior to compliance with the applicable environmental statutes and regulations.
C.
Approval of Acquisition by Planning Agency. The Chief Executive Officer shall submit the proposed acquisition to the appropriate planning agency in accordance with Government Code section 65402, or any statute which may later become appropriate, prior to the acquisition of the property.
D.
Assurance of Funding. Prior to committing the County to acquisition of the property, funding must be identified as assured by the appropriate authority. For acquisitions to be paid from gas tax funds, the Department of Public Works will be the appropriate authority. For acquisitions made from general fund sources, the Chief Executive Officer will be the appropriate authority. For all special district acquisitions, the district's financial officer will be the appropriate authority.
E.
Form of Instrument. All instruments conveying ownership of a property interest must be in a form acceptable to County Counsel.
F.
Condemnation. Notwithstanding any other provision of this chapter, the Chief Executive Officer's authority shall be exercised in conjunction with the County Counsel for any acquisition of an interest in real property where a resolution of condemnation has been previously adopted by the Board of Supervisors of the County of Los Angeles for the County of Los Angeles, or in its ex officio capacity for any other public entity.
G.
Acceptance of Gifts. The Chief Executive Officer is authorized to accept gifts consisting solely of real property interests. All requirements for the compliance with the environmental statutes and regulations and planning agency review shall be completed prior to acceptance.
H.
Expiration of Authority. The authority granted to the Chief Executive Officer pursuant to this Section shall be effective through and including July 31, 2014, after which time it shall be deemed expired and of no further effect.
(Ord. 2009-0046 § 1, 2009; Ord. 95-0052 § 18, 1995.)
2.08.161 - Licenses and permits—Issuance conditions.
The chief administrative officer and, subject to the direction and control of the chief administrative officer, his/her designates within the department, may grant licenses or permits permitting the use of county-owned property by persons, firms, corporations, cities, districts and public agencies, and may apply for and agree to pay for licenses or permits permitting the use of real property by the county if:
A.
The estimated or actual compensation passing either to or from the county for the license or permit conforms to the limits set out in Sections 2.08.159 or 2.08.163 as applicable; and
B.
The license or permit falls into one or more of the following categories:
1.
Little League or Pop Warner type of food and soft drink vending stands in public parks;
2.
Permits of any duration to and from public utilities, municipalities, school districts, irrigation, flood control or other special districts within the county (but excluding franchises) for utility lines, cables, pipelines, vaults, anchors, poles, towers, meters and similar devices, including the installation and maintenance thereof;
3.
Permits of any duration for ingress and egress of county property;
4.
Licenses for a period of five days or less for use of county land for the sale of food and soft drinks at miscellaneous special sporting events, i.e., volleyball tournaments, archery shoots, etc.;
5.
Licenses to permit use of space on county property for vending machines or coin-operated devices, i.e., storage lockers, photocopy machines, telescopes, etc.;
6.
Permits issued by the filming permit coordination office as provided in this chapter if the estimated or actual compensation passing either to or from the county for the permit is $5,000.00 or less;
7.
Concessions for blind-operated cafeterias and vending stands in county buildings;
8.
Licenses permitting catering trucks to enter county-owned or operated parking lots for the purpose of vending food and soft drinks;
9.
Licenses to private persons to undertake geological surveys or core drillings on county land;
10.
Licenses and permits for a period of five days or less for use of county property for community activities, including parking purposes;
11.
Right-of-entry permits from the county to other public agencies prior to the sale of an easement or fee title in county-owned property;
12.
Temporary permits to or from the county for miscellaneous purposes not specified above;
13.
Permits for the use of county court facilities for litigation in which private judges preside, provided the use of such facilities does not interfere with the operations of the courts and would further the interests of justice. Compensation for such permits shall be at a daily rate adequate to reimburse all associated county costs, as determined by the chief administrative officer, and shall not exceed $5,000.00 per permit.
(Ord. 95-0052 § 19, 1995.)
2.08.162 - Easements.
Pursuant to the authority granted by California Government Code Section 25526.6, the chief administrative officer is authorized to grant or otherwise convey an easement for the use of any real property of the county to the state or to any county, city, district or public agency or corporation or to any public utility corporation upon a finding by the chief administrative officer that the conveyance is in the public interest and that the interest conveyed will not substantially conflict or interfere with the use of the property by the county.
(Ord. 95-0052 § 20, 1995.)
2.08.163 - Leasing of property.
Pursuant to Government Code Section 25350.51, the chief administrative officer is authorized to lease or amend existing leases of real property for use by county departments for a term not to exceed three years and for a rental not to exceed $7,500.00 per month and to amend real property leases for improvement or alterations, or both, with a total cost not to exceed $7,500.00 provided that the amendment does not extend the term of the lease and that no more than two amendments, not to exceed $7,500.00 each, are made within a 12-month period. Notice of intention to consummate such a lease shall be as required by Section 25350.51 of the Government Code.
(Ord. 2002-0039 § 1, 2002: Ord. 95-0052 § 21, 1995.)
2.08.164 - Sale of surplus property—Auction sales; appraised fair market value not exceeding $500,000.
A.
Pursuant to the authority granted by California Government Code sections 25538.1 and 25539, the chief administrative officer is authorized to act on behalf of the board of supervisors in conformity with all applicable laws, concerning the auction sale of an interest in county-owned real property where the appraised fair market value of the interest to be sold does not exceed $500,000.00, regardless of the final selling price. The chief administrative officer is authorized to perform any and all acts, including but not limited to, the marketing of the property and the execution of deeds, purchase and sales contracts, escrow instructions, and any other documents customarily associated with the sale of real property, provided that the following procedures are followed:
1.
The chief administrative officer shall find that the property to be sold is no longer necessary for county or other public purposes and that the appraised fair market value, based on a written appraisal by a licensed real estate appraiser, or certified by a qualified county employee and verified by the chief administrative officer to be his best estimate of fair market value as determined by comparable sales in the area, does not exceed $500,000.00. The chief administrative officer shall determine the minimum bid, the amount of the nonrefundable deposit, whether payment of the purchase price less the nonrefundable deposit shall be all cash or in deferred payments evidenced by a promissory note secured by a purchase money deed of trust, the schedule for cash payment(s), the term, payments, and interest rate payable under the promissory note, if any, and the other terms and conditions of the sale. The chief administrative officer shall further determine whether to offer a broker's commission in the manner set forth in subsection A.6, below.
2.
The chief administrative officer shall execute a notice and resolution declaring its intention to sell the property (the "notice and resolution of intention to sell") which shall include the minimum bid price, any nonrefundable deposit amount, the payment terms as described in subsection A.1, above, the address and description of the property in sufficient detail for the reader to reasonably identify the location of the property, the time frame to complete the purchase, whether a broker's commission may be payable to a licensed real estate broker representing a buyer ("buyer's broker") and the amount and rate thereof, any other terms and conditions pertaining to the sale, and the time, not less than three weeks thereafter, and place at which sealed bids to purchase will be received and considered and a call for oral bids made. The auction may be conducted at any location deemed appropriate by the chief administrative officer.
3.
The chief administrative officer may elect to utilize an outside vendor, who is a licensed real estate broker, to represent the county (the "representing broker"), who may market the property on behalf of the county and/or perform the auction as the chief administrative officer's duly authorized representative consistent with the provisions of this Section 2.08.164. The selection and hiring of a representing broker shall be in accordance with all legal requirements and all applicable county contracting procedures. Any contract retaining such a representing broker shall specify the fees payable for each act of the representing broker under this Section 2.08.164 and shall require all acts performed by such representing broker to be in compliance with Government Code section 25539 and this Section 2.08.164
4.
The chief administrative officer, or his duly authorized representative (either of which, the "auctioneer"), shall cause the notice and resolution of intention to sell the property to be posted in three public places in the county, not less than 15 days before the date of the auction, and shall publish in the county the notice and resolution of intention to sell in accordance with Government Code section 6063. In addition, the auctioneer may, if duly authorized, list the property on a multiple listing service, post for sale signs, purchase advertising space in such newspapers, magazines, and other periodicals, or on the internet, and use such other means of advertising as, in his or her judgment, will publicize the sale to those persons likely to bid for and purchase the property.
5.
The auctioneer, at the time and place specified in the notice and resolution of intention to sell, shall open, examine, and declare all sealed bids which have been received. The highest sealed qualified bid shall be accepted unless a higher oral qualified bid is accepted or the chief administrative officer rejects all bids. A qualified bid is one which conforms to all of the terms and conditions specified in the notice and resolution of intention to sell and which is made by a responsible bidder. A responsible bidder is one who has presented evidence satisfactory to the auctioneer that he or she has the ability to timely pay the nonrefundable deposit required in the notice and resolution of intention to sell. In determining which is the highest sealed qualified bid, the auctioneer shall not subtract therefrom the commission, if any, which the bid provides shall be paid to a buyer's broker. Before accepting any bid, the auctioneer shall call for oral bids. If, upon the call for oral bidding an oral qualified bid is made, for a price exceeding by at least five percent, the highest sealed qualified bid, such highest oral qualified bid shall be finally accepted or the chief administrative officer may reject all bids. In determining which is the highest oral qualified bid, the auctioneer shall not subtract therefrom the commission, if any, which the oral bid provides shall be paid to a buyer's broker.
6.
In the event the chief administrative officer elects to pay a brokerage commission to a buyer's broker, then the potential for payment of such commission shall be provided for in the notice and resolution of intention to sell and shall be paid upon conclusion of the sale in accordance with Government Code sections 25527, 25531, and 25532.
7.
Subject to final approval by the board of supervisors, as provided herein, the chief administrative officer shall accept the highest qualified bid at the time sealed bids are examined and any oral bids are made, or within 10 days thereafter or shall reject any and all written or oral bids and withdraw the property from sale if the chief administrative officer deems such action to be for the best public interest.
8.
The chief administrative officer's acceptance of a bid shall be subject to approval of the board of supervisors by resolution authorizing and directing the execution of the deed.
B.
For auction sales of property for which the appraised fair market value is not in excess of $500,000.00 and for which the estimated sales price does not exceed $100,000.00, the chief administrative officer may, in addition to exercising the powers set forth above, and pursuant to the authority granted by California Government Code section 25526.7:
1.
Accept the next highest qualified bid in the event the accepted high bidder defaults on the purchase of the property within 90 days following the date the board approves the sale, provided the option to accept the next highest qualified bid is set forth in the notice of resolution and intention to sell and further provided that the sale is approved by the board of supervisors in the manner set forth in subsection A.8, above, within 90 days following the original high bidder's default; or
2.
Negotiate a direct sale to any person of any real property which had, in the prior twelve-month period, been subject to auction under the procedures contained in subsections A.1 through A.7, above, and for which no qualified bid was made which was equal to or greater than the minimum bid price set forth in the notice and resolution of intention to sell such property. Any such sale shall be for not less than the minimum bid price set forth in the notice and resolution of intention to sell and shall be subject to final approval by the board of supervisors in the manner set forth in subsection A.8, above.
(Ord. 2005-0043 § 2, 2005: Ord. 95-0052 § 22, 1995.)
2.08.165 - Architectural, engineering and related services—$75,000.00 or less.
A.
Pursuant to the authority granted by California Government Code Section 31000.9, the chief administrative officer is authorized to perform any or all acts or actions permitted or required of the board of supervisors to enter into contracts and amendments thereto on behalf of the county for architectural, engineering and related services for asset management related activities where the amount of the consultant services contract and amendments does not exceed $75,000.00, and is further authorized to enter into amendments to consultant services contracts entered into by the board of supervisors where the amount of any such amendment does not exceed 10 percent of the amount of the original contract or $75,000.00, whichever is less. The aggregate total amount of amendments to contracts entered into by the board of supervisors may not exceed 25 percent of the amount of the original contract.
B.
The chief administrative officer shall exercise his/her authority in conformance with the following procedures:
1.
On projects, studies and reports with an estimated fee under $25,000.00, the chief administrative officer shall:
a.
Prepare a work statement;
b.
Select a consultant from a list maintained by the department, the selection to be based on professional expertise, specific project requirements, time commitments and fee schedules on file with the department;
c.
Negotiate a fee with the consultant, including a maximum cost, using established departmental procedures, fee schedules and project requirements; and
d.
Execute the contract after approval as to form by county counsel and receipt of insurance certificates from the consultant.
2.
On projects, studies and reports with an estimated fee in excess of $25,000.00 or more, the chief administrative officer shall:
a.
Prepare a work statement;
b.
Solicit requests for proposals which shall be evaluated by the department;
c.
Select a consultant on the basis of professional expertise in the area of service need, organization, experience, ability to meet county needs and time commitment;
d.
Negotiate a "not-to-exceed fee" with the consultant; and
e.
Execute the consultant agreement after approval as to form by county counsel and receipt of insurance certificates from the consultant.
C.
The chief administrative officer shall exercise his/her authority in conformance with the following procedures:
1.
Whenever the architectural or engineering fee is estimated to be $75,000.00 or less, the chief administrative officer may appoint an architect or engineer. Architects shall be selected from a list provided by the architectural evaluation board and reviewed by the supervisor in whose district the project is located.
(Ord. 95-0052 § 23, 1995.)
2.08.166 - Delegation of additional duties.
Pursuant to statutory and Charter provisions, the chief administrative officer is authorized to perform certain duties on behalf of the board of supervisors pursuant to California Government Code Sections 25350.51, 25350.60, 25537, 25538.1 and 31000.9. The chief administrative officer will maintain, as a public record, documentation of staff recommendations and support materials for all actions under this delegation of authority. Quarterly reports will be submitted to the board of supervisors listing all actions completed under this delegation. The chief administrative officer may not take any action requiring funding until the chief administrative officer has certified that funding is available and has authorized the expenditure of such funds.
(Ord. 95-0052 § 24, 1995.)
2.08.167 - Delegation to subordinates.
The chief administrative officer may delegate the authority granted by this chapter to appropriate department of the chief administrative officer's staff under the chief administrative officer's direction and control. Thereafter, or until revoked, such subordinates may exercise any and all authority delegated by the board of supervisors to the chief administrative officer in the sections.
(Ord. 95-0052 § 25, 1995.)
2.08.168 - Authority to accept deeds for grants to county.
The chief administrative officer is authorized to accept and consent to the recordation of any deed or grant conveying any interest in, or easement upon, real property to the county of Los Angeles or other special district under the authority of the board of supervisors, including those documents containing provisions of indemnification.
(Ord. 95-0052 § 26, 1995.)
2.08.169 - Marina del Rey Leases.
The chief administrative officer shall participate with, and assist the director of beaches and harbors in, negotiating the terms and conditions of leases of county-owned properties in the Marina del Rey.
(Ord. 97-0068 § 1, 1997.)
2.08.170 - Administrator; MacLaren Children's Center.
The administrator, MacLaren Children's Center, shall be appointed by the chief administrative officer and shall supervise and direct the operations of the Center, and facilitate interdepartmental cooperation at the Center. The department heads of county departments, including but not limited to, department of children and family services, probation department, department of mental health, and department of health services, shall assign personnel as necessary to the Center, and such personnel, while so assigned, shall work under the direction and supervision of the administrator. The administrator, for purposes of departmental administration at the Center, including but not limited to personnel administration, shall be a subordinate of each department head who assigns personnel to the Center, and each such department head shall delegate to the administrator the exercise of judgment or discretion to impose discipline or take any other personnel action on behalf of the department head regarding personnel assigned to the Center.
(Ord. 99-0023 § 1, 1999.)
