Part 7 - SANITATION
Sections:

19.12.1090 - Sanitation—Responsibility of lessee or agent—Correction by county authorized when—Costs.
The lessee, agent, manager or person in charge of a facility or water area under lease from the county, or owned in fee in any county harbor, waterway or maritime facility shall at all times maintain the premises under his charge in a clean, sanitary condition, free from malodorous materials and accumulations of garbage, refuse, debris and other waste materials. Should the director find that any facility or water area under lease is not so maintained, he shall in writing notify said lessee, agent, manager or other person in charge of said facility or area to immediately commence and diligently prosecute to completion the necessary correction of the unsanitary condition, to the satisfaction of the director. Failure to do so with reasonable dispatch shall be a violation of Part 7 of this chapter, and the director may then cause the condition to be corrected as he deems necessary, and the costs of such correction to be charged to said lessee, agent, manager or person in charge.
(Ord. 9359 Art. 7 § 706, 1967.)
19.12.1100 - Toilet fixtures—Use prohibited.
Vessel's Toilet Fixtures Not to be Used. No person shall operate the toilet fixtures of a vessel within a County harbor, waterway, or maritime facility at any time so as to cause or permit to pass or to be discharged into the waters of such harbor, waterway, or maritime facility any excrement, sewage, or other waste matter or contaminant of any kind.
(Ord. 2012-0006 § 20, 2012: Ord. 95-0043 § 4, 1995; Ord. 86-0039 § 43, 1986: Ord. 9359 Art. 7 § 704, 1967.)
19.12.1110 - Use of vessel as place of abode—Restrictions.
A.
No person shall, within a county harbor, waterway or maritime facility, use any vessel, floating home, houseboat or any other floating facility as an abode in excess of three days within any one-week period unless such person shall first have authorization by the lessee, agent, manager or person in charge of such facility for a liveaboard status, and secondly, have obtained a liveaboard permit from the harbor master. The liveaboard permit shall establish compliance by such vessel, floating home, houseboat or other floating facility with the following:
1.
Compliance with the requirements for seaworthiness as described in Section 19.12.1060 of this code, unless otherwise exempted or temporarily excused by the provisions of that section;
2.
Installation of a federally approved marine sanitation device or self-contained portable toilet which has been demonstrated to the satisfaction of the harbor master to prohibit the overboard discharge of treated or untreated excrement, sewage, or other waste matter or contaminant of any kind while within the Marina del Rey Small Craft Harbor.
If it is determined by the harbor master that the criteria for issuance of a liveaboard permit have been satisfactorily met, the harbor master shall issue a liveaboard decal which shall be prominently placed, as directed by the harbor master, on the vessel, floating home, houseboat or any other floating facility. Liveaboard permits shall be valid for a period of one year commencing with the first day of the month following the month of issuance and shall be renewed on each successive annual anniversary of the previous term's commencement date. Any renewal of a liveaboard permit shall be issued by the harbor master upon the same terms as required for the initial permit. In the case of a floating home, no annual renewal of a liveaboard permit shall be issued following the tenth anniversary of the effective date of the ordinance adding this subsection unless the owner provides the harbor master with his or her statement, made under penalty of perjury, that no transfer of ownership, as defined by Section 19.12.1060 B2, has occurred with respect to that floating home since the tenth anniversary of the effective date of the ordinance adding this subsection. Failure to have obtained such a liveaboard permit shall be a violation of Part 7 of this chapter.
B.
For vessels, floating homes, houseboats or other floating facilities which had obtained authorization for use for a liveaboard status by the respective lessee, agent, manager or person in charge of the facility prior to the effective date of the ordinance adding this section to the code, a liveaboard permit shall be obtained within 120 days of the effective date of the ordinance adding this subsection to the code unless a longer time period is provided in order to demonstrate seaworthiness pursuant to the operation of Section 19.12.1060C or D.
C.
For all other vessels, floating homes, houseboats or other floating facilities not covered by subsection B of this section, a liveaboard permit shall be obtained prior to the commencement of the use of the vessel, floating home, houseboat or other floating facility as an abode in excess of three days within any one-week period.
D.
Regardless of the length of occupancy:
1.
A person living aboard any vessel, floating home, houseboat or other floating facility using the harbor, waterway or maritime facilities shall not use the toilet fixtures of any vessel, floating home, houseboat or other floating facility unless such use will not violate the provisions of Section 19.12.1100 of this code;
2.
Toilet fixtures of any vessel, floating home, houseboat or other floating facility which is used as an abode may be sealed by the harbor master unless such fixtures can be operated in compliance with Section 19.12.1100 of this code so long as the vessel, floating home, houseboat or other floating facility remains in the harbor;
3.
The owner of any vessel, floating home, houseboat or other floating facility not equipped with approved and acceptable devices for the neutralization or storage of contaminants shall post notices that the toilet facilities aboard shall not be used while the vessel, floating home, houseboat or other floating facility is moored in or using the waters of the harbor, waterway or maritime facility.
E.
The director and/or harbor master may promulgate such additional regulations in connection with vessels used as abodes as may be necessary to insure the maintenance of sanitary and sightly conditions and the preservation and protection of the public health, safety, peace, welfare and convenience in the use of any county harbor, waterway or maritime facility, or portion thereof. A violation of any part of such regulations shall be cause for revocation for use of vessel, floating home, houseboat or floating facility as an abode, and it shall be unlawful for any person to live aboard such vessel, floating home, houseboat or floating facility until such violation has been corrected to the satisfaction of the director.
(Ord. 99-0016 § 4, 1999; Ord. 95-0043 § 5, 1995: Ord. 86-0039 § 44, 1986: Ord. 10783 § 2, 1973: Ord. 9359 Art. 7 § 705, 1967.)
19.12.1120 - Discharge of refuse, sewage or other waste.
It is unlawful for a person to throw, discard, discharge or deposit any refuse, trash, sewage or waste matter of any description upon the lands or into the waters of a county harbor, waterway or maritime facility, or for a person to discharge or deposit material of any kind on or adjacent to the banks, shores, bulkheads, piers, wharves or beaches of any county harbor, waterway or maritime facility where such material may be liable to be washed or otherwise deposited into the waters of a harbor, waterway or maritime facility by tides, floods, storms, waves, or accidental displacement.
(Ord. 9359 Art. 7 § 701, 1967.)
19.12.1130 - Dead animals or fish.
A.
A person shall not place or deposit and subsequently abandon any dead animals, fish, shellfish, bait or other putrefying matter on or along the structures, vessels, floats, piers, sidewalks or land of a county harbor, waterway or maritime facility, nor shall a person throw or deposit any animal carcass in the waters of a harbor or maritime facility.
B.
A person shall not clean fish on the jetties, breakwater, seawalls, harbor structures, floats, piers, sidewalks, land or waters in a harbor waterway or maritime facility except at those places specifically designated by the director for the purpose of cleaning fish.
(Ord. 9359 Art. 7 § 703, 1967.)
19.12.1140 - Discharge of petroleum, coal or paint products.
A.
A person shall not discharge or deposit or permit to pass into the waters of a county harbor, waterway or maritime facility any coal, tar, oil, gasoline, sludge or residuary products of coal, petroleum, asphalt, bitumen or other refined oil products, nor any varnish, lacquer or paint products.
B.
Any such discharge, deposit or spill of said products shall be immediately reported to the harbor master and any other local or personal agency having concurrent jurisdiction, and it shall be a violation of Part 7 of this chapter to fail to do so.
(Ord. 86-0039 § 45, 1986: Ord. 9359 Art. 7 § 702, 1967.)
