Chapter 11.13 - INDEPENDENT WHOLESALE VEHICLES
Sections:

11.13.010 - Definitions.
The following words and phrases shall apply to this chapter irrespective of their use in other Chapters of Part 1 of this Title:
A.
"Independent Wholesale Food Vehicle" means any vehicle, not owned by the shipper or receiver, that is used to transport food from a warehouse, manufacturer, distributor, or other wholesale provider for delivery to a retailer, warehouse, distributor, or other destination. An independent wholesale food vehicle shall not be permitted to conduct sales at the retail level. An independent wholesale food vehicle originating outside of the jurisdiction of the director, which has been inspected by the health officer at the jurisdiction of origin and which bears an identification that the jurisdiction of origin has issued a public health permit, shall not be required to obtain a public health license from Los Angeles county under this chapter.
B.
"Approved" means approved by the director based upon a determination of conformity with applicable laws, current public health principles, practices, and generally recognized industry standards that protect the public health subject to annual certification.
(Ord. 2007-0089 § 84, 2007.)
11.13.020 - Requirements for independent wholesale food vehicle storage facilities.
A.
Adequate facilities shall be provided for the sanitary disposal of liquid waste from the wholesale food vehicle.
B.
Adequate facilities shall be provided for the sanitary disposal of garbage and rubbish originating from the wholesale food vehicle.
C.
Hot and cold water, under pressure, shall be available for cleaning the wholesale food vehicle.
(Ord. 2007-0089 § 85, 2007.)
11.13.030 - Requirements for wholesale food vehicles.
A.
The compartments in which food is carried on wholesale food vehicles shall be enclosed and the exterior doors and windows shall be tightly fitted to prevent the entrance of dust, dirt, moisture, or vermin.
B.
The floor shall be of non-corrosive, nontoxic metal, or other approved material, extending at least 4 inches (4") up the side of the compartment. Tight-fitting, nonabsorbent hardwood flooring may be used when only dry food products are transported. The interior floor, sides, and top of the food compartment shall be free from cracks, seams, or linings where vermin may harbor, and shall be constructed of a smooth, washable, impervious material capable of withstanding frequent cleaning with acceptable sanitizing agents, including steam. Slide rails, hooks, shelves, racks, and similar equipment shall be constructed of a nontoxic, non-corrosive, easily cleanable material, and shall be so installed as to be readily accessible or easily removable for cleaning. Vehicles shall be so constructed that no liquid wastes from the food compartment can drain onto any street, sidewalk, or premises.
C.
All food compartments used to hold potentially hazardous foods shall be provided with an approved mechanism capable of maintaining potentially hazardous foods at or below 45°F or at or above 135°F during transportation.
(Ord. 2007-0089 § 86, 2007.)
11.13.040 - Requirements for food vehicle identification.
The name, address, and telephone number of the owner/operator, permittee, or business name shall be legible, clearly visible, and permanently indicated on at least two sides of the exterior of the vehicle. The name shall be at least three inches (3") high and shall have strokes at least three-eighths inch (3/8") wide, and shall be of a color contrasting with the vehicle exterior. Letters and numbers for the address and telephone number shall not be less than one inch high.
(Ord. 2007-0089 § 87, 2007.)
11.13.050 - Food vehicle temperature requirements.
All potentially hazardous foods being transported in food compartments shall be held at a temperature at or below 45°F or at or above 135°F. If frozen foods are carried, the food temperature shall be maintained at 5°F or below. An accurate device for measuring temperature shall be maintained inside the food compartments where potentially hazardous foods are held.
(Ord. 2007-0089 § 88, 2007.)
11.13.060 - Food protection.
A.
No person shall carry, transport, or convey any food for commercial purposes unless such food is protected from all contamination. No food shall be carried in the driver's or passenger's compartment of any wholesale food vehicle.
B.
All unpackaged food shall be contained, suspended, or handled so that it does not come into actual contact with the floor, walls, or ceiling of the vehicle or with the clothing of persons who load or unload food product. All unpackaged food shall be loaded and unloaded using a manner that protects the food.
C.
All unpackaged food shall be contained, suspended, or handled so that it does not come into actual contact with the floor, walls, or ceiling of the vehicle or with the clothing of persons who load or unload food product. All unpackaged food shall be loaded and unloaded in a manner that protects the food at all times.
D.
All vehicle food compartments shall be maintained clean, sanitary, and in good repair.
E.
The doors to the food compartment shall be kept tightly closed at all times, except when loading or unloading food.
F.
No person shall carry, transport, or convey pesticides, poisons, or other chemicals in the same compartment of a vehicle with food products, feed, or other material intended for consumption by humans or animals.
(Ord. 2007-0089 § 89, 2007.)
11.13.070 - Exemptions.
Private individuals transporting food for personal use are exempted from the provisions of this chapter.
(Ord. 2007-0089 § 90, 2007.)
11.13.080 - Certification decal for approved vehicles.
Independent wholesale food vehicles that conform to the requirements of this article, that have been inspected and approved by the director, and for which the required health permit fee has been paid, shall be provided with a certification decal which shall be affixed to a clearly visible area on the left side of the rear portion of the vehicle. It shall be unlawful to operate an independent wholesale food vehicle without a certification decal. It shall be unlawful to deface, modify, duplicate, camouflage, or falsity this decal.
(Ord. 2007-0089 § 91, 2007.)
