Rule 3 - ADMINISTRATION
Rules:

3.01 - Director of personnel.
The director of personnel shall:
A.
Administer the civil service system in accordance with these Civil Service Rules;
B.
Appoint all assistants, deputies and other persons in the department, and delegate duties where necessary;
C.
Administer and make effective the provisions of these Rules, establishing such administrative controls as may be necessary;
D.
Make recommendations relative to matters of policy and for necessary amendments to these Rules;
E.
Report to the board of supervisors from time to time as directed concerning the details of the work of the department;
F.
Prepare the budget for the department, approve accounts, and administer generally the expenditure of funds appropriated for the operation of the department of personnel;
G.
Classify all positions in the classified service, maintain schematic list of all classes in the classification plan, and prepare and maintain specifications for each class;
H.
Order, prepare and conduct all examinations; the director shall:
1.
Determine the examinations to be conducted,
2.
Determine the minimum qualifications of all applicants, the subjects to be covered in each examination; methods of testing, and the relative weights,
3.
Prepare and post bulletins announcing examinations,
4.
Prepare the content of questions to be used in each examination, together with the standards or key answers,
5.
Make arrangements for and supervise the conduct of the examinations, appointing such experts, special examiners, and other persons as deemed necessary,
6.
Grade the examination papers and evaluate the qualifications of applicants,
7.
Pass upon all questions relating to the eligibility of applicants, the admissibility of applicants to the examination, extensions of time, and all questions arising during the course of an examination, subject to appeal to the commission as provided in these Rules,
8.
Prepare a complete report of each examination together with a report on all appeals from rulings or appeals from any part of the examination;
I.
Ascertain and report performance ratings;
J.
Certify payrolls or accounts in accordance with Section 36 of the Charter;
K.
Perform all other functions necessary for the proper carrying out of these Rules and the provisions of the Charter relating to the civil service system, and such additional duties as may be assigned from time to time by the board of supervisors;
L.
Use publicity, paid advertising, or other public-relations means to interest people in becoming employees of the county of Los Angeles.
(Ord. 88-0020 ยง 1 (part), 1988.)
3.02 - Director of personnel pro tem.
Whenever it is necessary for the director of personnel to be absent, the director shall designate one of the assistants, deputies or other persons in the department to have all of the powers and duties and to act for the director.
(Ord. 88-0020 ยง 1 (part), 1988.)
3.03 - Delegation to other departments.
A.
Except where the authority is restricted to the director of personnel by the Charter, the director of personnel may delegate his authority in operational activities, such as, but not limited to classification, recruitment and selection and employee development, to the other department or district heads. Delegation of authority by the director of personnel shall be in writing.
B.
Delegation is subject to audit by the director of personnel to insure compliance with the Charter, Civil Service Rules and policy guidelines.
C.
Delegation may be revoked by the director of personnel, in writing, at any time. (Amended by Board Order No. 80 (part), 9/1/87.)
