Chapter 18 - FIRE PROTECTION[1]

Footnotes:
--- (1) ---
State Law reference— Authority to provide police and fire protection, Ga. Const. art. IX, § II, ¶ III(a)(1); regulation of fire and other hazards to persons and property generally, O.C.G.A. § 25-2-1 et seq.; statewide application of International Fire Code, O.C.G.A. § 8-2-25(a).

Sec. 18-001. - Fire department to answer calls in the city and within a five mile radius of the corporate city limits.
The fire department of the city is hereby authorized and directed to answer all calls within the city and all fire calls within a five mile radius of the corporate city limits.
(Prior Code, § 15-001)
Sec. 18-002. - Charge for calls inside and outside city.
There could be a charge to the insurance policy if a fire clause is included in the insured's policy for each fire call answered by the city fire services. The amount of fire service charges will be determined from time to time by the mayor and council.
(Prior Code, § 15-002)
Sec. 18-003. - Damaging fire plugs.
It shall be a misdemeanor for any person or persons to hit, knock down or otherwise injure a fire plug, either from carelessness or otherwise, and the violator shall be subject to a fine of at least an amount that it will cost to replace same as a minimum fine.
(Prior Code, § 15-003)
Sec. 18-004. - Compensation of volunteer department.
The city shall pay the volunteer fire department per active member for all drills and fires. The amount of compensation will be determined from time to time by the mayor and council.
(Prior Code, § 15-004)
Sec. 18-005. - Fire prevention code adopted.
There is hereby adopted for the purpose of establishing rules and regulations for the prevention of fire, that certain code known as the Fire Prevention Code, as recommended by the American Insurance Association, being particularly the 1970 Edition thereof and the whole thereof save and except such portions as are hereafter debted, modifies or amended, a copy of which code is attached hereto and made a part hereof, and said code is hereby adopted and incorporated as fully as if set out at length herein.
(Prior Code, § 15-011)
