Chapter 1 - GENERAL PROVISIONS

Sec. 1-001. - How Code is designated and cited.
The ordinances embraced in the following chapters and sections shall constitute and be designated as the "Code of Ordinances of the City of Butler, Georgia," and may be so cited. The Code also may be cited as the "Butler City Code."
(Prior Code, § 1-001)
Sec. 1-002. - Rules of construction and definitions.
In the construction of this Code, and of all ordinances, the following rules shall be observed, unless such construction would be inconsistent with the manifest intent of the city council.
Charter. The term "Charter" means the Charter, as amended, of the City of Butler, Georgia.
City. The terms "the city" or "this city" means the City of Butler, Georgia.
Code. The term "the Code" or "this Code" means this Code of Ordinances, unless the context clearly indicates otherwise.
Computation of time. Unless otherwise specifically provided, the time within which an act is required to be done shall be computed by excluding the first day and including the last; except that the last; except that the last day shall be excluded if it is Sunday.
Council, city council. The term "the council" or "city council" means the City Council of the City of Butler.
County. The term "the county" or "this county" means the County of Taylor, Georgia.
Delegation of authority. Whenever a provision appears requiring the head of a department or other officer of the city to do some act or perform some duty, it shall be construed to authorize such department to do the required act or perform the required duty unless the terms of the provision designate otherwise.
Gender. A term importing the masculine gender only shall extend and be implied to female and to firms, partnerships and corporations as well as to males.
Interpretation. In the interpretation and application of any provision of this Code, it shall be held to be the minimum requirement adopted for the promotion of the public health, safety, comfort, convenience and general welfare. Where any provision of this Code imposes greater restrictions upon the subject matter than any general provisions imposed by this Code, the provision imposing the greater restriction or regulation shall be applicable.
Joint authority. Whenever a "joint authority" is given to three or more persons or officers, it shall be construed as giving such authority to a majority of them.
Month. The term "month" means a calendar month.
Names of officers, departments. The name or title of any officer or department shall be read as though the words "of the City of Butler" were added thereto.
Nontechnical andtechnical words. The ordinary significance shall be applied to all words, except words of art, or words connected with a particular trade or subject matter, in which case they shall have the significance attached to them by experts in such trade, or with reference to such subject matter.
Number. The singular number shall include the plural and the plural number shall include the singular.
Oath. The term "oath" shall be construed to include an affirmation in all cases in which, by law, an affirmation may be substituted for an oath, and in such cases the terms "swear" and "sworn" shall be equivalent to the terms "affirm" and "affirmed."
O.C.G.A. The term "O.C.G.A." means the Official Code of Georgia Annotated, as amended.
Officials orofficers. Whenever reference is made to officials, boards, commissions, departments or other municipal agents by title only, such reference shall be read as though followed by the words "of the City of Butler, Georgia."
Or, and. The term "or" may be read as "and" and the term "and" may be read as "or" if the sense requires it.
Owner. The term "owner" applied to real estate, includes any part owner, joint owner, tenant in common, tenant in partnership, joint interest or other fee interest in the whole or a part of such real estate.
Person. The term "person" includes firms, partnerships, associations, organizations and bodies politic and corporate, as well as a natural person.
Preceding, following. The terms "preceding" and "following" mean next before and next after, respectively.
Schedule of fees and charges. The term "schedule of fees and charges" means an official list compiled and published by the city which contains rates for utility and other public enterprises, fees, deposit amounts and various charges as determined from time to time by the mayor and council, an official copy of which is maintained in the office of the city clerk where it is available for reference and review during normal business hours.
Shall, may. The term "shall" is mandatory; the term "may" is permissive.
Signature orsubscription. The term "signature" or "subscription" includes a mark when the person cannot write.
State. The term "the state" or "this state" means the State of Georgia.
Street. The term "street" shall be construed to include streets, avenues, boulevards, roads, alleys, lanes, viaducts and all other public ways in the city and shall include all parts thereof constituting the designate right-of-way.
Substantial compliance. A "substantial compliance" with any requirement of this Code or ordinances amendatory thereof, especially on the part of public officers, shall be deemed and held sufficient; and no proceeding shall be declared void for want of such compliance, unless expressly so provided.
Tense. The present or past tense includes the future.
Week. The term "week" means seven days.
Year. The term "year" means a calendar year.
(Prior Code, § 1-002)
State Law reference— Computation of time, O.C.G.A. § 1-3-1; statutory definitions and rules of construction, O.C.G.A. § 1-3-1 et seq.; construction of definitions, O.C.G.A. § 1-3-2; meaning of certain words, O.C.G.A. § 1-3-3; time, O.C.G.A. § 9-11-6.
Sec. 1-003. - Catchlines of sections.
The catchlines of the several sections of this Code printed in boldface type are intended a mere catchwords to indicate the contents of the section and shall not be deemed or taken to be titles of such sections, nor as any part of the section, nor unless expressly so provided, shall they be deemed when any of such sections, including the catchlines, are amended or re-enacted.
(Prior Code, § 1-003)
State Law reference— Notes and catchlines of code sections not part of law, O.C.G.A. § 1-1-7.
Sec. 1-004. - Effect of repeal of ordinance.
A.
The repeal of an ordinance shall not revive any ordinances in force before or at the time the ordinance repealed took effect.
B.
The repeal of an ordinance shall not affect any punishment or penalty incurred before the repeal took effect, no any suit, prosecution or proceeding for violation of said ordinance pending at the time of the repeal.
(Prior Code, § 1-004)
Sec. 1-005. - Severability of parts of Code.
It is hereby declared to be the intention of the mayor and council that the sections, paragraphs, sentences, clauses and phrases of this Code are severable, and if any phrase, clause, sentence, paragraph or section of this Code shall be declared unconstitutional, invalid or unenforceable by the valid judgment or decree of a court of competent jurisdiction, such unconstitutionally shall not affect any of the remaining phrases, clauses, sentences, paragraphs and sections of this Code.
(Prior Code, § 1-005)
Sec. 1-006. - Amendments to Code; effect of new ordinances; amendatory language.
A.
All ordinances passed subsequent to this Code of Ordinances that amend, repeal or in any way affect this Code of Ordinances may be numbered in accordance with the numbering system of this Code and printed for inclusion therein. When subsequent ordinances repeal any chapter, section or subsection or any portion thereof, such repealed portions may be excluded from said Code by omission from reprinted pages. The subsequent ordinances as numbered and printed, or omitted in the case of repeal, shall be prima facie evidence of such subsequent ordinances until such time that this Code of Ordinances and subsequent ordinances numbered or omitted are re-adopted as a new Code of Ordinances by the mayor and council.
B.
Amendments to any of the provisions of this Code shall be made by amending such provisions by specific reference to the section number of this Code in the following language: "That section _____ of the Code of Ordinances of the City of Butler, is hereby amended to read as follows:…." The new provisions shall then be set out in full as desired.
C.
In the event a new section not heretofore existing is to be added, the following language shall be used: "That the Code of Ordinances of the City of Butler, Georgia, is hereby amended by adding a section, to be numbered _____, which said sections reads as follows:…." The new section shall then be set out in full as desired.
D.
All sections, articles, chapters or provisions desired to be repealed must be specifically repealed by section, article or chapter number, with reference to the subject matter, as the case may be.
(Prior Code, § 1-006)
Sec. 1-007. - Altering Code.
It shall be unlawful for any person, firm or corporation to change or amend by additions or deletions, any part or portion of this Code or to insert or delete pages, or portions thereof, or to alter or tamper with such Code in any manner whatsoever which will cause the law of the City of Butler to be misrepresented thereby.
(Prior Code, § 1-007)
Sec. 1-008. - General penalty; continuing violations; violation as public nuisance.
A.
Whenever in this Code, or in any ordinance or resolution of the city, or rule or regulation or order promulgated by an office or agency of the city under authority duly vested in him or it, any act is prohibited or is declared to be unlawful, or the doing of any act is required or the failure to do any act is declared to be unlawful, and no specific penalty is provided for the violation thereof, the violation of any such provision of this Code or any such ordinance, resolution, rule regulation or order shall be punished by a fine as determined from time to time by ordinance, to imprison offenders for a period of not more than 60 days, or to labor on the roads and streets or other public works of said city for not more than 60 days, and said judge shall have the power and authority to impose any one or more of these punishments when he shall find that the facts of the case so justify. Said judge shall not have the authority to inflict a greater punishment for contempt than to impose a fine as determined from time to time by ordinance or imprisonment not exceeding 20 days, or any combination of the two. All sentences may be in the alternative, and fines may be imposed with the alternative of the other punishment in the event the fines are not paid. Each day any violation of any provision of this Code or of any such ordinance, resolution, rule, regulation or order shall continue shall constitute a separate offense.
B.
In addition to the penalties hereinabove provided, any condition caused or permitted to exist in violation of any of the provisions of this Code or any such ordinance, resolution, rule regulation or order shall be deemed a public nuisance and may be abated by the city as provided by law. Each day that such condition continues shall be regarded as a new and separate offense.
(Prior Code, § 1-008)
Sec. 1-009. - Supplementation of Code.
A.
By contract or by city personnel, supplements to this Code may be prepared on at least an annual basis. A supplement to the Code may include all substantive, permanent and general parts of ordinances passed by the city council during the period covered by the supplement and all changes made thereby in the Code. The pages of a supplement shall be so numbered that they will fit properly into the Code and will, where necessary, replace pages that have become obsolete or partially obsolete, and the new pages shall be so prepared that, when they have been inserted, the Code will be current through the date of the adoption of the latest ordinance included in the supplement.
B.
In preparing a supplement to this Code, all portions of the Code which have been repealed shall be excluded from the Code by the omission thereof from reprinted pages.
C.
When preparing a supplement to this Code, the codifier (meaning the person authorized to prepare the supplement) may make formal, non-substantive changes in ordinances and parts of ordinances included in the supplement, insofar as it is necessary to do so to embody them into a unified Code. For example, the codifier may:
1.
Organize the ordinance material into appropriate subdivisions.
2.
Provide appropriate catchlines, headings and titles for sections and other subdivisions of the Code printed in the supplement, and make changes in such catchlines, headings and titles.
3.
Assign appropriate numbers to sections and other subdivisions to be inserted in the Code and, where necessary to accommodate new material, change existing sections or other subdivision numbers.
4.
Change the words "this ordinance" or words of the same meaning to "this chapter," "this article," "this division," etc., as the case may be, or to "sections _____" (inserting section numbers to indicate the sections of the Code which embody the substantive sections of the ordinance incorporated into the Code).
5.
Make other non-substantive changes necessary to preserve the original meanings of ordinance sections inserted into the Code; but in no case shall the codifier make any change in the meaning or effect of ordinance material included in the supplement or already embodied in the Code.
Sec. 1-010. - Ordinances not affected by Code.
A.
Nothing in the ordinance adopting this Code shall be construed to repeal or otherwise affect the validity of any of the following in effect at the time of adoption of this Code:
1.
Any offense or act committed or done or any penalty or forfeiture incurred or any contract or right established or accruing before the effective date of this Code.
2.
Any ordinance or resolution promising or guaranteeing the payment of money for the city or authorizing the issuance of any bonds of the city or any evidence of the city's indebtedness.
3.
Any contract or obligation assumed by the city.
4.
Any ordinance fixing the salary of any city officer or employee, unless superseded.
5.
Any ordinance or resolution establishing and/or prescribing employment, benefits, and/or personnel policies and procedures for any town officer or town employee.
6.
Any right or franchise granted by the city.
7.
Any ordinance or resolution dedicating, naming, establishing, locating, relocating, opening, widening, paving, etc., any street or public way in the city.
8.
Any appropriation ordinance.
9.
Any ordinance or resolution which, by its own terms, is effective for a stated or limited term.
10.
Any ordinance or resolution providing for local improvements and assessing taxes therefor.
11.
Any zoning ordinance or amendments thereto, and any ordinance establishing a board of zoning appeals or planning commission, including joint commissions.
12.
Any ordinance or resolution dedicating or accepting any subdivision plat or providing for subdivision regulations.
13.
Any ordinance or resolution describing or altering the boundaries of the city.
14.
The administrative ordinances or resolutions of the city not in conflict or inconsistent with the provisions of this Code.
15.
Any ordinance levying or imposing taxes not included herein.
16.
Any ordinance or resolution establishing or prescribing street grades in the city.
17.
Any ordinance or regulation prescribing traffic regulations for specific locations concerning through streets, parking limitations, parking prohibitions, one-way traffic, limitations on loads of vehicles or loading zones, not in conflict or inconsistent with this Code.
18.
Any ordinance or resolution of agreement with another political subdivision.
19.
Any other ordinance or resolution, or part thereof, which is not of a general and permanent nature; or which is referred to elsewhere in this Code as continuing in effect.
B.
No such ordinance shall be construed to revive any ordinance or part thereof that has been repealed by a subsequent ordinance which is repealed by this chapter; and all such ordinances are hereby recognized as continuing in full force and effect to the same extent as if set out at length herein.
Sec. 1-011. - Rates, charges and fees established.
A.
Unless otherwise provided for, all rates, charges, or fees necessary for the administration and enforcement of the provisions of this Code shall be as currently established or as hereafter adopted by motion, resolution or ordinance of the city council, from time to time. Any rates, charges, or fees established by the city pursuant to the regulations or requirements established herein may be changed from time to time by the city council, and such changes shall be considered an amendment to this Code.
B.
Whenever any provision of this Code provides that a rate, charge, or fee shall be established by the city council, from time to time, and the amount of such rate, charge, or fee is not expressed in this Code in any dollar amount, then the amount of such rate, charge, or fee shall be the most recent and latest amount established, set or fixed by the city council by ordinance, resolution or motion.
