Chapter 15 - CABLE TELEVISION FRANCHISE
ARTICLE I. - IN GENERAL

Sec. 15-1. - Definitions.
For purposes of this chapter, the following terms, phrases, words and their derivations shall have the meanings set forth in this section, unless the context clearly indicates that another meaning is intended. When not inconsistent with the context, words used in the present tense include the future, words used in the plural number include the singular number and words used in the singular number include the plural number.
Cable services means "cable services" as defined in the Communications Act of 1934, as amended by the Cable Communications Policy Act of 1984 and the Cable Television Consumer Protection and Competition Act of 1992, and as may be further amended from time to time (the "Cable Act"). In the event that "cable services" is no longer defined in the Cable Act or the definition in the Cable Act otherwise becomes inapplicable, "cable services" shall mean "cable services" as defined in the Cable Act immediately prior to such term no longer being defined in the Cable Act or such definition otherwise becoming inapplicable.
Cable system means any "cable system" as defined in the Cable Act.
Franchise means an initial authorization, or renewal thereof, issued by the city, whether such authorization is designated as a franchise, permit, license, resolution, contract, certificate, agreement or otherwise, which authorizes the occupation and use of the streets to provide telecommunications services.
Grantee means the legal entity to which is granted the right, authority and responsibility to construct, install, operate and maintain a system of equipment as necessary to furnish, supply and distribute cable or telecommunications services or both, to inhabitants within the franchise area.
Streets means the surface of, and the spaces above and below, all streets, alleyways, avenues, highways, boulevards, driveways, bridges, tunnels, parks, parkways, public grounds or waters, and other public rights-of-way within or belonging to the city.
Telecommunications services means the receipt and/or distribution, through any means, including, without limitation, coaxial cable, optical fiber, or satellite or microwave transmission, of one or more audio, voice or data signals. Telecommunications services includes both cable services and non-cable telecommunications services.
(Former § 15-001(1.1))
Sec. 15-2. - Granting authority.
(a)
No person shall provide cable services or operate a cable system without a franchise granted in accordance with the provisions of this section and no person shall use or occupy the streets to provide any telecommunications service other than cable services without a franchise granted in accordance with the provisions of this section.
(b)
The council may grant one or more franchises in accordance with this section, provided that the council reserves the right to modify any provision of this section by amendment hereof.
(c)
The grant of any franchise shall be made by adoption of a separate ordinance and shall be on such terms and conditions as may be specified in said separate ordinance and/or a franchise agreement between the city and the franchisee.
(d)
Any franchise granted shall be nonexclusive. The city specifically reserves the right to grant, at any time, such additional franchises as it deems appropriate and or itself engage in the provision of telecommunications services.
(e)
A franchise may be granted for all or any defined portion of the city and for all or less than all telecommunications services, and for telecommunications services for all or less than all purposes.
(f)
The grant of franchises by the city shall be subject to the provisions of applicable law, such as the provisions in the Communications Act of 1934, as amended, governing cable television franchises and renewals thereof.
(Former § 15-001(2.1))
Sec. 15-3. - Franchise applications.
(a)
Applications for franchises shall be submitted in such form and be issued on such terms and conditions as the council may determine, subject to applicable laws and regulations.
(b)
Any application for a franchise shall contain and/or require the following information with respect to the proposed franchise and such other information as the council shall deem necessary or appropriate:
(1)
The applicant's name, address, telephone number, and federal employer identification number or social security number; copy of applicant's corporate charter or partnership agreement as applicable; and any trade names (and registrations) used by applicant;
(2)
A detailed statement of the corporation or business entity organization of the applicant, including but not limited to the following, and to whatever extent required by the city:
a.
The names and the residence and business addresses of all officers, members and directors of the applicant;
b.
The names, residence, and business addresses of all persons and entities having any share of the ownership of the applicant and the respective ownership share of each person or entity;
c.
The names and address of any parent or subsidiary of the applicant, namely, any other business entity owning or controlling applicant in whole or in part or owned or controlled in whole or in part by the applicant, and a statement describing the nature of any such parent or subsidiary business entity, including but not limited to telecommunications or cable systems owned or controlled by the applicant, its parent, and subsidiary, and the areas served thereby;
d.
A detailed and complete financial statement of applicant, certified by an independent certified public accountant, for the fiscal year immediately preceding the date of the application hereunder, or a letter or other acceptable evidence in writing from a recognized lending institution or funding source, addressed to both the applicant and the council, setting forth the basis for a study performed by such lending institution or funding source, and a clear statement of its intent as a lending institution or funding source to provide whatever capital shall be required by the applicant to construct and operate the proposed telecommunications or cable system in the city, or a statement from an independent certified public accountant certifying the applicant has available sufficient free, net, and uncommitted cash resources to construct and operate the proposed cable or telecommunications system in the city;
e.
A detailed financial plan (pro forma) describing for each year of the franchise, the projected number of subscribers, rates, all revenues, operating expenses, capital expenditures, depreciation schedules, income statements, and a sources and uses of funds statement; and
f.
A statement identifying, by place and date, any other cable system or telecommunication franchise(s) awarded to the applicant, its parent or subsidiary; the status of said franchise(s) with respect to completion thereof; the total cost of completion of such franchised cable or telecommunication system(s); and the amount of applicant's and its parent's or subsidiary's resources committed to the completion thereof;
(3)
A detailed description of the proposed plan of operation of the applicant which shall include the following:
a.
A description of the cable services and any other telecommunications services proposed to be provided;
b.
A detailed map indicating all areas proposed to be served, and a proposed time schedule for the installation of all equipment necessary to become operational throughout the entire area to be serviced;
c.
A statement or schedule setting forth all proposed classifications of rates and charges to be made against subscribers and all rates and charges as to each of said classifications, including installation charges, cable service charges, and any other telecommunications service charges;
d.
A detailed, informative, and referenced statement describing the actual equipment and operational standards proposed by the applicant;
e.
A copy of the form of any agreement, undertaking, or other instrument proposed to be entered into between the applicant and any subscriber to cable or telecommunications services; and
f.
A detailed statement setting forth in its entirety any and all agreements and undertakings, whether formal or informal, written, oral, or implied, existing or proposed to exist between the applicant and any person, firm, or corporation which materially relate or pertain to or depend upon the application and the granting of the franchise;
(4)
A copy of any agreement covering the franchise area, if existing between the applicant and any utility providing for the use of any facilities of the utility, including but not limited to, poles, lines, or conduits; and
(5)
Any other details, statements, supplementary information, or references pertinent to the subject matter of such application which shall be required or requested by the council, or by any other provision of law or regulation.
(c)
Non-refundable application fees for new franchises. No application for a new franchise shall be considered without payment by the applicant of the application fees as provided in this section. If a franchise is granted, the application fees will not be deemed a credit towards any other fees or sums due by the grantee. If an application is denied, the application fee will not be refunded.
(1)
Purpose of application fees. The application fees provided by this section will serve to cover the direct and indirect costs incurred by the city in processing the application, evaluating the applicant, and granting a franchise, and shall include, but not be limited to, administrative, engineering, publication, legal, and consultant's expenses.
(2)
Application fee. The applicant will be expected to pay the reasonable costs of the city in evaluating the application. Notwithstanding any other requirement of this section, each applicant must furnish with its proposal a non-refundable application fee in the amount of $2,000.00 by certified check or cashier's check made payable to the city.
(Former § 15-001(2.2))
Sec. 15-4. - Responsibilities of applicants.
It shall be the responsibility of each applicant for a franchise to comply with all applicable laws, ordinances, resolutions, rules, regulations and other directives of the city and any federal, state or local governmental authority having jurisdiction.
(Former § 15-001(2.3))
Sec. 15-5. - Public availability of applications.
To the extent required by law, applications for franchises, including any additions, modifications or amendments thereto, shall be available for public inspection at a designated city office during normal business hours.
(Former § 15-001(2.4))
Sec. 15-6. - Evaluation criteria.
In making any determination hereunder as to any application for a franchise, the council may consider such factors as it deems appropriate and in the public interest, including, without limitation:
(1)
The adequacy of the proposed compensation to be paid to the city, including the value of any facilities and telecommunications services offered by the applicant to the city;
(2)
The legal, financial, technical and other appropriate qualifications of the applicant;
(3)
The ability of the applicant to maintain the property of the city in good condition throughout the term of the franchise;
(4)
The value and efficiency to the city and its residents of the cable services and other telecommunications services to be provided, including the type of telecommunications services to be provided as well as alternatives to those services and services that may be precluded by the grant of the franchise;
(5)
The willingness and ability of the applicant to meet construction and physical requirements and to abide by all purpose and policy conditions, limitations and requirements with respect to the franchise; and
(6)
Any other public interest factors or considerations deemed pertinent for safeguarding the city and the public.
(Former § 15-001(2.5))
Sec. 15-7. - Procedure for consideration of and action on applications.
(a)
The city may make such investigations and take or authorize the taking of such other steps as the council deems necessary or appropriate to consider and act on applications for franchises and determine whether a franchise should be granted to an applicant, and may require the applicant to furnish additional information and data for this purpose. In considering applications, the council may seek advice from other city officials or bodies, from such other advisory bodies as it may establish or determine appropriate, and/or from the public, and may request the preparation of one or more reports to be submitted to the council, which may include recommendations with respect to such applications.
(b)
If the council, after considering such information as it determines to be appropriate, elects to further consider one or more applications, the council shall set one or more public hearings for consideration of the application(s), fixing and setting forth a day, hour and place certain when and where any persons having any interest therein or objections thereto may file written comments and appear before the council and be heard, and providing notice of such public hearing(s) per applicable law.
(c)
The council may authorize negotiations between city officials and applicants to determine whether the city and such applicants are able to reach agreement on the terms of the proposed franchise.
(d)
Upon completion of the steps deemed appropriate by the council, the council may grant the franchise, and may specify the conditions under which the franchise is granted. Alternatively, the council may reject any and all applications from whatever source and whenever received except that a franchising authority may not grant an exclusive franchise and may not unreasonably refuse to award an additional competitive franchise. The council also reserves the right to waive any or all requirements when it determines that the best interests of the city may be served thereby and may, if it so desires, request new or additional proposals.
(Former § 15-001(2.6))
Sec. 15-8. - Terms and conditions of franchise.
The terms and conditions applicable to any franchise granted pursuant to this section shall be set forth in the separate ordinance granting the franchise or in a separate written agreement. Such separate ordinance or written agreement, among other things, shall address the following subjects:
(1)
The term of the franchise;
(2)
The franchise area and the cable services and other telecommunications services and purposes of such other telecommunications services, if any, which are the subject of the franchise;
(3)
The compensation to be paid to city, which may include the payment of fees or the provision of facilities or services, or both;
(4)
The circumstances upon which the franchise may be terminated or cancelled;
(5)
The mechanisms, such as performance bonds, security funds or letters of credit, to be put in place to ensure the performance of the franchisee's obligations under the franchise;
(6)
The city's right to inspect the facilities and records of the franchisee;
(7)
Insurance and indemnification requirements applicable to the franchisee;
(8)
The obligation of the franchisee to maintain complete and accurate books of account and records, and the city's inspection rights with respect thereto;
(9)
Provisions to ensure quality workmanship and construction methods;
(10)
Provisions to ensure that the franchisee will comply with all applicable city, state and federal laws, regulations, rules and policies, including, without limitation, those related to employment, purchasing and investigations;
(11)
Provisions to ensure adequate oversight and regulation of the franchisee by the city;
(12)
Provisions to restrict the assignment or other transfer of the franchise without the prior written consent of the city;
(13)
Remedies available to the city to protect the city's interest in the event of the franchisee's failure to comply with terms and conditions of the franchise;
(14)
Provisions to ensure that franchisee will obtain all necessary licenses and permits from and comply with all laws, regulations, rules and policies of any governmental body having jurisdiction over franchisee, including the Federal Communications Commission;
(15)
Provisions to ensure franchisee will protect property of city and the delivery of public services from damage or interruption resulting from construction, operation, maintenance, repair or removal of improvements related to the franchise;
(16)
Provisions designed to minimize the extent to which the public use of the streets of the city are disrupted in connection with the construction of improvements relating to the franchise; and
(17)
Such other provisions as the city determines are necessary or appropriate in the furtherance of the public interest.
(Former § 15-001(2.7))
Sec. 15-9. - Delegation.
Consistent with applicable law, the council shall have the right to delegate and re-delegate, and to revoke any such delegation or re-delegation, from time to time, any of its rights or obligations under this section to any body, organization or official. Any such delegation, re-delegation or revocation, no matter how often made, shall not be deemed an amendment to this section or to require the consent of any applicant for a franchise or franchisee. The council may also establish and appoint one or more advisory boards, with such duration and such number of members as the council shall determine, to advise it on such of the matters which are the subject of this section.
(Former § 15-001(3.1))
Sec. 15-10. - Regulations for satellite receivers stations.
(a)
The city has become aware of the availability for residential use of dish type satellite signal receiving stations, and, it is the desire of the city to both permit reasonable use of property owners of their property and to protect the rights of other property owners. The city is aware of its duty to protect the health, safety and welfare of the residents of the city, and the city will not prohibit the use of such receiving stations, but will permit their use subject to reasonable regulations. The placement of such stations shall be only in the rear portion of the property, and such stations shall be otherwise regulated.
(b)
Dish type satellite receiving stations (stations"), subject to the following regulations, may be located in the city.
(c)
Stations shall not be linked to receivers not located on the same lot or property as the station.
(d)
Stations shall be located in the rear yard only, and behind the principal dwelling or structure located on the lot, and shall be located so that however turned or otherwise used, all parts of the station will be set back at least six feet from the side yard lines and shall be set back from the rear lot line no less than six feet or one-half the depth of the rear yard, whichever is greater.
(e)
The height of the station, with the dish antennae turned perpendicular to the ground, shall not extend beyond 15 feet, and the maximum diameter of any dish antennae shall not exceed 12 feet.
(f)
No installation of the station shall commence before a permit is obtained from the city building inspector or his designee.
(g)
All stations, together with all other structures, patios, decks and impervious surfaces (excluding driveways), may occupy an area of land no larger than 50 percent of the rear yard.
(h)
Vegetation screening and/or fencing with a minimum height of six feet shall be required between the station and residential properties which abut the rear yard, between the antennae and any street that borders the front or corner side yard of the property in question, and between the antennae and residential property across such a front or side street, so as to screen the station from the view of persons inside nearby residential properties and from persons on those public streets.
(i)
As an additional remedy, the unauthorized or improper operation or maintenance of any dish type satellite signal receiving station shall be deemed and is declared to be a public nuisance and may be subject to abatement summarily by a restraining order or injunction issued by a competent court of jurisdiction.
(j)
Any person violating any portion of this section shall be deemed guilty of a misdemeanor and following conviction thereof shall be fined in an amount not exceeding $100.00. Each day such violation is committed or permitted to continue, shall constitute a separate offense and shall be punishable as such hereunder.
(Former § 15-002)
Secs. 15-11—15-25. - Reserved.
ARTICLE II. - UTILITY USE OF PUBLIC RIGHT-OF-WAY AND PERMITS AND REGISTRATION

Sec. 15-26. - Intent and purpose.
Pursuant to the Charter of the city, it is empowered to regulate roadside areas, including rights-of-way. The city is vitally concerned with the use, construction within, and occupancy of all rights-of-way in the city as such rights-of-way are a valuable and limited resource which must be utilized to promote the public health, safety, welfare, economic development of the city and to protect public work infrastructure. Per O.C.G.A. §§ 36-76-1 et seq. known as the "Consumer Choice for Television Act" of 2007, the city retains regulatory powers over certain activity of cable and video providers with respect to public rights-of-way within or belonging to the city. Per O.C.G.A. §§ 46-5-1 et seq. telephone companies shall comply with all applicable local laws and regulations, including municipal ordinances and regulations, regarding the placement and maintenance of facilities in the public rights-of-way that are reasonable, nondiscriminatory, and applicable to all users of the public rights-of-way within or belonging to the city. The city desires to establish reasonable nondiscriminatory regulations for the installation construction, maintenance, renewal, removal and relocations of utility facilities that are not more restrictive than equivalent regulations promulgated by the Georgia Department of Transportation with respect to utilities on the state highway system under authority of O.C.G.A. § 32-4-70. Therefore, the city, under the authority of the laws and Constitution of the State of Georgia, including but not limited to Article 9, Section 1, Paragraph 1 of the Georgia Constitution, O.C.G.A. §§ 36-1-20 and O.C.G.A. 32-4-42(6), has adopted the ordinance from which this chapter derives for the purpose of regulating public and private entities which use the city rights-of-way.
(Former § 15-003(1.))
Sec. 15-27. - Scope.
This chapter shall apply to all utilities and facilities occupying the rights-of-way as provided herein.
(Former § 15-003(2.))
Sec. 15-28. - Definitions.
For this chapter, the following terms, phrases, words, and their derivations have the meanings set forth herein.
Construct means, but shall not be limited to, dig, bore, tunnel, trench, excavate, obstruct, install or remove signs, or facilities, other than landscaping or ornamental plantings, in, on, above, within, over, below, under, or through any part of the rights-of-way. Construct shall also include the act of opening and/or cutting into the surface of any paved or improved surface that is any part of the right-of-way.
Construction means, but shall not be limited to, the act or process of digging, boring, tunneling, trenching, excavating, obstructing, installing or removing signs or facilities, other than landscaping or ornamental plantings, in, on, above, within, over, below, under, or through any part of the rights-of-way. Construction shall also include the act of opening, boring and/or cutting into the surface of any part of the right-of-way.
Director means the city manager or his/her designee.
Emergency means a condition that poses a clear and immediate danger to life, health, or safety of a person, or of significant damage or loss of real or personal property.
Facility or facilities means any tangible thing, including but not limited to pipes, mains, conduits, cables, wires, poles, towers, traffic and other signals, and other equipment, appurtenances, appliances and future technology of any utility in, on, along, over, or under any part of the rights-of-way within the city.
Facilities representative(s) means the specifically identified agent(s)/employee(s) of a utility who are authorized to direct field activities of that utility and serve as official notice agent(s) for facilities related information. Utility shall be required to make sure at least one of its facilities representatives available at all times to receive notice of, and immediately direct response to, facilities related emergencies or situations.
FCC means the Federal Communications Commission or any successor thereto.
Permit means an authorization which grants permission to conduct specific regulated activities on, in, over, under or within any public right-of-way, and which may be subject to conditions specified in a written agreement with the city or in a related provision of this Code of Ordinances.
Right(s)-of-way means the surface and space in, on, above, within, over, below, under or through any real property in which the city has an interest in law or equity, whether held in fee, or other estate or interest, or as a trustee for the public, including, but not limited to any public street, boulevard, road, highway, freeway, lane, alley, court, sidewalk, parkway, or any other place, area, or real property owned by or under the legal or equitable control of the city, now or hereafter, that consistent with the purposes for which it was dedicated, may be used for the purposes of constructing, operating, repairing or replacing facilities.
Service(s) means the offering of any service by a utility for a fee directly to the public, or to such classes of users as to be effectively available directly to the public, or alternatively, the provision of any service by a utility between two or more points for a proprietary purpose to a class of users other than the general public.
Service agreement means a valid license agreement, service agreement, franchise agreement, or operating agreement issued by the city or state pursuant to law and accepted by a utility or entered into by and between the city and a utility, which allows such utility to operate or provide service within the geographic limits of the city.
Street or streets means the surface of, as well as the spaces above and below, any and all the streets, alleys, avenues, roads, bridges, tunnels and public places of the city within the corporate limits of the city, as the same now exist or may be hereafter extended or altered, and any location thereon, thereover or thereunder, and any portion thereof.
Transfer means the disposal by the utility, directly or indirectly, by gift, assignment, sale, merger, consolidation, or otherwise, of more than 50 percent at one time of the ownership or controlling interest in the facilities, or of more than 50 percent cumulatively over the term of a written approval of Registration of such interests to a corporation, partnership, limited partnership, trust, or association, or person or group of persons acting in concert.
Unused facilities means facilities located in the rights-of-way which have remained unused for 12 months and for which the utility is unable to provide the city with a plan detailing the procedure by which the utility intends to begin actively using such facilities within the next 12 months, or that it has a potential purchaser or user of the facilities who will be actively using the facilities within the next 12 months, or, that the availability of such facilities is required by the utility to adequately and efficiently operate its facilities.
Utility or utilities means all privately, publicly, or cooperatively owned systems for producing, transmitting, or distributing communication, data, information, telecommunication, cable television, video services, power, electricity, light, heat, gas, oil, crude products, water/sewer, steam, fire and police signals, traffic control devices, and street lighting systems, and housing or conduit for any of the foregoing, which directly or indirectly serve the public or any part thereof. The term "utility" may also be used to refer to the owner, operator, utility, service, contractor or subcontractor, or any agent thereof, of any above-described utility or utility facility.
(Former § 15-003(3.))
Sec. 15-29. - Registration required.
Each utility who occupies, uses or has facilities in the rights-of-way at the time of passage of the ordinance from which this chapter derives, including by lease, sublease or assignment, to operate facilities located in the rights-of-way, unless specifically exempted by state or federal law or this Code, shall file a registration statement with the department within 90 days of the effective date of this chapter.
(Former § 15-003(4.))
Sec. 15-30. - Registration procedure.
The registration information provided to the city shall be on a form approved by the city and include, but not be limited to:
(1)
The name, legal status (i.e. partnership, corporation, etc.), street address, email address, and telephone and facsimile numbers of the utility filing the registration statement (the "registrant"). If the registrant is not the owner of the facility in the right-of-way, the registration shall include the name, street address, email address if applicable, and telephone and facsimile numbers of the owner;
(2)
The name, street address, email address if applicable and telephone and facsimile numbers of one or more facilities representative(s). Current information regarding how to contact the facilities representative(s) in an emergency shall be provided at the time of filing a registration and shall be updated as necessary to assure accurate contact information is available to the city at all times;
(3)
A copy, if requested, of the utility's certificate of authority (or other acceptable evidence of authority to operate) from the Georgia Public Service Commission and/or the FCC and any other similar approvals, permits, or agreements;
(4)
A copy, if requested, of the service agreement, if applicable or other legal instrument that authorizes the utility to use or occupy the right-of-way for the purpose described in the registration.
(Former § 15-003(5.))
Sec. 15-31. - Incomplete registration.
If a registration is incomplete, the director shall notify the registrant and shall provide a reasonable period of time in which to complete the registration.
(Former § 15-003(6.))
Sec. 15-32. - Complete registration.
If a registration is complete, the director shall so notify the utility in writing. Acceptance of the registration shall not convey title in the rights-of-way. Acceptance of the registration is only the nonexclusive, limited right to occupy rights-of-way in the city for the limited purposes stated in the acceptance. Acceptance of the registration does not excuse a utility from obtaining permits required by city ordinances nor from obtaining appropriate access or pole attachment agreements before using the facilities of others, including the city. Acceptance of the registration does not excuse a utility from notifying the city of construction as required herein.
(Former § 15-003(7.))
Sec. 15-33. - Facilities in place without registration.
Beginning one year after the effective date of this chapter, any facilities or part of a facility found in a right-of-way for which registration is required but has not been obtained unless specifically exempted by law, and for which no valid service agreement exists with the city, may be deemed to be a nuisance and an unauthorized use of the rights-of-way. The city may exercise any remedies or rights it has at law or in equity, including, but not limited to abating the nuisance; taking possession of the facilities, evicting the utility from the right-of-way; prosecuting the violator; and/or any other remedy provided by city ordinance or otherwise allowed in law or in equity.
(Former § 15-003(8.))
Sec. 15-34. - Permit required.
It shall be unlawful for any utility to excavate or to construct, install, maintain, renew, remove or relocate facilities in, on, along, over or under the public roads of the city without a permit from the city per this chapter.
(Former § 15-003(9.))
Sec. 15-35. - Permit procedure.
Utility permits shall be obtained from the director (or such other person as the city manager may designate) upon application made on forms prescribed by the city. The written application shall include the following:
(1)
The name and address of the utility;
(2)
The nature, extent, and location of any work proposed to be done, along with satisfactory plans as attachments showing in detail the location of the proposed facility or operations as described in the permit application. The plans shall show the size or capacity of facilities to be installed; their relationship to street features such as right-of-way lines, pavement edge, structures, etc., horizontal and vertical clearance to critical elements of the roadway and any other information necessary to evaluate the impact on the street and its operation;
(3)
The name and address of the person or firm who is to do such work;
(4)
The name, street address, email address if applicable and telephone and facsimile numbers of one or more facilities representative(s);
(5)
The projected dates for the work to be started and finished;
(6)
An indemnity bond or other acceptable security in an amount to be set by the city to pay any damages to any part of the city road system or other city property or to any city employee or member of the public caused by activity or work of the utility performed under authority of the permit issued;
(7)
A copy, if requested, of the registrant's certificate of authority (or other acceptable evidence of authority to operate) from the Georgia Public Service Commission and/or the FCC and any other similar approvals, permits, or agreements; and
(8)
A copy, if requested, of the service agreement, if applicable or other legal instrument that authorizes the utility to use or occupy the right-of-way for the purpose described in the application.
(Former § 15-003(10.))
Sec. 15-36. - Permit fees.
Fees shall be determined by the director, subject to the approval by resolution of the city council. A fee schedule shall be available at the offices of the director and the city clerk and open for public inspection.
(Former § 15-003(11.))
Sec. 15-37. - Issuance of permit.
If the director determines the applicant has satisfied the following requirements, the director may issue a permit. Whether issuing of the approval will be consistent with this chapter; whether applicant has submitted a complete application and has secured all certificates and other authorizations required by law, if applicable, in order to construct facilities in the manner proposed by the applicant; and the impact on safety, visual quality of the streets, traffic flow, and other users of the right-of-way and the difficulty and length of time of the project, construction or maintenance.
(Former § 15-003(12.))
Sec. 15-38. - Emergency situations.
Each utility shall, as soon as reasonably practicable, notify the director of any event regarding its facilities which is an emergency. The utility shall take whatever actions are necessary to respond to the emergency. A utility who engages in an emergency excavation shall take all reasonable precautions to avoid or minimize damage to any existing facilities. If the city becomes aware of an emergency regarding utility facilities, the city may attempt to contact the affected utility or facilities representative. The city may take whatever action it deems necessary in order to respond to the emergency, including cut or move any of the wires, cables, amplifiers, appliances, or other parts of the facilities. The city shall not incur any liability to the utility for such emergency actions, and the cost of such shall be paid by each utility affected by the emergency.
(Former § 15-003(13.))
Sec. 15-39. - Effective period of permit.
Each permit shall have a set commencement and expiration date based on information provided in the applicant's permit application. The permit shall remain in place until construction is completed or until its expiration date unless the utility is in default. The director may give written notice of default to a utility if it is determined that a utility has: Violated any provision or requirement of the issuance or acceptance of a permit application or any law of the city, state, or federal government; attempted to evade any provision or requirement of this chapter; practiced any fraud or deceit upon the city; or made a material misrepresentation or omission of fact in its permit application.
(Former § 15-003(14.))
Sec. 15-40. - Cancellation for cause.
If a utility fails to cure a default within 20 working days after notice is provided to the utility by the city, then such default shall be a material breach and city may exercise any remedies or rights it has at law or in equity to terminate the permit. If the director decides there is cause or reason to terminate, the following procedure shall be followed: City shall serve a utility with a written notice of the reason or cause for proposed termination and shall allow a utility a minimum of 15 calendar days to cure its breach. If the utility fails to cure within 15 calendar days, the city may declare the permit terminated.
(Former § 15-003(15.))
Sec. 15-41. - Expiration of permit.
If work is not begun within six months of the date of issuance, the permit will automatically expire.
(Former § 15-003(16.))
Sec. 15-42. - Utility Accommodation Manual adopted.
The 1988 Utility Accommodation Policy and Standards Manual, including all references contained therein to codes, rules, regulations, schedules, forms and appendix items, except Appendix B (permit forms and supporting documents), promulgated by the state department of transportation, as may be amended from time to time, is hereby adopted by reference and incorporated as if fully set forth herein, subject to the amendments and modification herein. A copy of the manual shall be maintained at the offices of the director or his designee and open for public inspection. Any conflicts between this chapter and the manual shall be resolved in favor of the more stringent requirement. References to state personnel, agencies, and fees shall be interpreted, where required, as meaning the city municipal equivalents.
(Former § 15-003(17.))
Sec. 15-43. - Protection of traffic and roadway.
Unless specifically in the permit, no utility may occupy the city rights-of-way unless sufficient space is available so that the free flow and safety of traffic and other capacity considerations are not unduly impaired and the installation does not prevent the department from reasonably maintaining the streets, structures, traffic control devices and other appurtenant facilities, and further provided that maintenance and operations of the facilities do not jeopardize the traffic, street structure, other users of the right-of-way or the right-of-way itself.
(Former § 15-003(18.))
Sec. 15-44. - Grading.
If the grades or lines of any street within the city right-of-way are changed at any time by the city during the term of the permit and this change involves an area in which the utility's facilities are located, then the utility shall, at its own cost and expense and upon the request of the city upon at least ten business days' notice, protect or promptly alter or relocate the facilities, or any part thereof, so as to conform with such new grades or lines. In the event the utility refuses or neglects to so protect, alter, or relocate all or part of the facilities, the city shall have the right to break through, remove, alter, or relocated all or any part of the facilities without any liability to the utility and the utility shall pay to the city the costs incurred in connection with such breaking through, removal, alteration, or relocation.
(Former § 15-003(19.))
Sec. 15-45. - Installation of poles and other wireholding structures and relocation.
Unless otherwise provided in a valid service agreement, no placement of any pole or wire holding structure of the utility is to be considered a vested interest in the right-of-way, and such poles or structures are to be removed, relocated underground, or modified by the utility at its own expense whenever the city determines that the public convenience or welfare would be enhanced thereby. The facilities shall be so located and installed as to cause minimum interference with the rights and convenience of property owners.
(Former § 15-003(20.))
Sec. 15-46. - Blasting.
As provided in O.C.G.A § 25-9-6 (the Georgia Utility Facility Protection Act) and other applicable state law currently in place or as amended, no utility shall commence, perform, or engage in blasting or in excavating with mechanized excavating facilities unless and until the utility planning the blasting or excavating has given 48 hours' notice by submitting a locate request to the utility protection center, beginning the next working day after such notice is provided, excluding hours during days other than working days.
(Former § 15-003(21.))
Sec. 15-47. - Repair.
Each utility shall be responsible for the cost of repairing any facilities in the rights-of-way and adjoining property or other facilities which it or its facilities damage. A utility shall be liable, at its own cost and expense, to replace, restore or repair, any street, facilities or property or structure thereon, thereunder, thereover or adjacent thereto that may become disturbed or damaged as a result of the construction or installation, operation, upgrade, repair or removal of facilities to a condition as good as its condition before the work performed by the utility that caused such disturbance or damage. If the utility does not commence such replacement or repair after 20 working days following written notice from the city, the city or the owner of the affected structure or property may make such replacement or repair and the utility shall pay the reasonable and actual cost of the same.
(Former § 15-003(22.))
Sec. 15-48. - Inspection.
The utility shall make the construction site available to the director and to all others as authorized by law for inspection at all reasonable times during the execution and upon completion of the construction. At any time, including the time of inspection, the director may order the immediate cessation of any work which poses a threat to the health, safety, or welfare of the public, violates any law, or which violates the terms and conditions of the permit and/or this chapter or issue an order to correct work which does not conform to the permit and/or applicable standards, conditions or codes. When the construction under any permit is completed, the utility shall notify the department.
(Former § 15-003(23.))
Sec. 15-49. - Additional permits required.
The utility shall obtain all construction, building or other permits or approvals as according to city ordinance, state and federal law. In addition, a permittee shall comply with all requirements of laws, shall complete work in a way as to not cause any unnecessary or unauthorized obstructions of sidewalks, streets, waterways or railways, and is responsible for all work done in the rights-of-way. No rights-of-way obstruction or excavation may be performed when seasonally prohibited or when conditions are unreasonable for such work, except in the case of an Emergency as outlined above.
(Former § 15-003(24.))
Sec. 15-50. - Abandonment.
Facilities of a utility who fails to comply with the above provision shall be deemed to be abandoned. Abandoned facilities are deemed to be a nuisance. The city may exercise any remedies or rights it has at law or in equity, including, but not limited to abating the nuisance; taking possession of the facilities, evicting the utility from the right-of-way; prosecuting the violator; and/or any other remedy provided by city ordinance or otherwise at law or in equity.
(Former § 15-003(25.))
Sec. 15-51. - Prohibitions and penalties.
No utility shall use the rights-of-way to operate any facilities that have not been authorized by the city in accordance with this chapter. No utility shall place or have placed any facilities in, on, above, within, over, below, under, or through the rights-of-way, unless allowed under this chapter. Each unauthorized use shall be deemed to be a violation and a distinct and separate offense. Each and every day any violation of this chapter continues shall constitute a distinct and separate offense. No utility shall fail to comply with this chapter. Each failure to comply shall be deemed a distinct and separate offense. Each day any violation of this chapter continues shall constitute a distinct and separate offense. Every utility convicted of a violation of any provision of this chapter shall be punished by a fine not exceeding $1,000.00 per violation. In addition to the penalty prescribed above, the city may pursue other remedies such as abatement of nuisances, injunctive relief and revocation of licenses or permits.
(Former § 15-003(26.))
Sec. 15-52. - Reservation of regulatory and police powers.
The city by issuing a written approval of registration under this chapter, does not surrender or to any extent lose, waive, impair, or lessen the lawful powers and rights, which it has now or may be hereafter vested in the city under the Constitution and laws of the United States, the state and the City Charter, and under the provisions of the city's codified ordinances to regulate the use of the rights-of-way. The utility by applying for and being issued a written permit, is deemed to acknowledge that all lawful powers and rights, regulatory power, or police power, or otherwise as are or the same may be from time to time vested in or reserved to the city, shall be in full force and effect and subject to the exercise thereof by the city at any time. A utility is deemed to acknowledge that its interests are subject to the regulatory and police powers of the city to adopt and enforce general ordinances necessary to the safety and welfare of the public and is deemed to agree to comply with all applicable general laws enacted by the city pursuant to such powers. In particular, all utilities shall comply with city zoning and other land use requirements pertaining to the placement and specifications of facilities.
(Former § 15-003(27.))
Sec. 15-53. - Compliance.
No person shall be relieved of its obligation to comply with any of the provisions of this chapter by reason of any failure of city to enforce compliance.
(Former § 15-003(28.))
Sec. 15-54. - Appeal of administrative decisions.
All appeals provided for by this chapter and any notification to the city required by this chapter shall be in writing and sent via certified mail to the director as specified in this chapter.
(Former § 15-003(29.))
Sec. 15-55. - Discontinuance.
A utility who has discontinued or is discontinuing operation of any facilities in the city shall:
(1)
Provide information satisfactory to the city that the utility's obligations for its facilities in the rights-of-way under this chapter and any other provision in the codified ordinances or other laws have been lawfully assumed by another utility;
(2)
Submit a written proposal to re-use its facilities;
(c)
Submit a written proposal for abandonment of facilities. Said proposal must be approved by the director;
(d)
Remove its entire facilities within a reasonable amount of time and in a manner acceptable to the city;
(5)
Submit to the city, in good faith and within a reasonable amount of time, a proposal for transferring ownership of its facilities to the city. If a utility proceeds under this clause, the city may, at its option do one or more of the following: purchase the facilities; accept donation of some or all facilities, or require the utility to post a bond in an amount sufficient to reimburse the city for its reasonably anticipated costs to be incurred in removing the facilities.
(Former § 15-003(30.))
