Chapter 1 - GENERAL PROVISIONS

Sec. 1-1. - Purpose; how Code designated and cited.
(a)
General. The mayor and council of the City of Social Circle, Georgia ("city") desires to maintain a system by which all regulations of the city are easily accessed and understood by law enforcement officers and other city and county employees, local elected officials, and members of the general public. It is also the stated intention of the mayor and council that all regulations of the city be kept in a manner that will provide the same accessibility and understanding of such regulations in posterity.
(b)
Amendment of the Official Code of the City of Social Circle, Georgia. This document, the Official Code of the City of Social Circle, has been created and is hereby amended in order to fulfill the stated purpose identified in subsection (a) above.
(Former § 1-001(1.1, 1.2))
Sec. 1-2. - Definitions.
Advise and consent. Whenever the term "advise and consent of the council" is used in this Code, it shall be construed to mean an affirmative vote of the majority of a quorum of the council.
Building inspector means the building inspector of the city.
City means the City of Social Circle, Georgia.
City council or council means the mayor and city council of the city.
City manager means the person hired by the council as the chief administrative officer of the city, to whom all city employees are responsible with respect to performance of their job duties.
Clerk means the person hired by the council and appointed by the council as the clerk or the acting clerk of the city.
Code means the Official Code of the City of Social Circle, Georgia, adopted as such by the council.
County shall mean Walton County, Georgia.
Court or city court means the city court of the city.
Judge or recorder means the judge of the city court.
Mayor means the mayor of the city.
Mayor and council (or council) means the mayor and council of the city.
Misdemeanor means a violation punishable by a fine not in excess of $1,000.00, confinement not exceeding six months, or both.
Official means the mayor or a member of the council.
Ordinance means a legislative act of the council of a general and permanent nature.
Owner, when applied to a building or to land, shall include any part owner, joint owner, tenant in common, joint tenant, or tenant by the entirety, of the whole or a part of such building or land.
Person includes a person, corporation, entity, firm, partnership, association, organization, and any other group acting as a unit.
Personal property includes every type of property except real property.
Property includes real, personal and mixed estates and interests.
Real property includes lands, tenements and hereditaments.
Reasonable time or notice shall be deemed to mean only such time as may be necessary for the prompt performance of the act required.
Resolution means a legislative act of the council of a special or temporary character.
Sidewalk means an improved portion of street between the curb and the adjacent property, intended for the use of pedestrians.
State means the State of Georgia.
Street means any public way, road, highway, street, avenue, boulevard, parkway, alley, viaduct or bridge, and the approaches thereto, within the city.
Tenant or occupant, when applied to a building or to land, shall include any person holding a written or oral lease of, or who occupies the whole or a part of, such building or land, either alone or with others.
(Former § 1-001(2.1—2.26))
Sec. 1-3. - Amendments; hearings.
(a)
Amendments to the Code. The council may from time to time amend the Code. The council may read and consider the proposed amendment at a regularly scheduled or properly called special meeting of the council. Following the reading, the council may vote to adopt, adopt with modifications, disapprove or table the proposed amendment. If the vote is for adoption, then the city manager shall make the amendment a physical part of the Code. Said amendment shall immediately upon adoption by the council become part of this Code.
(b)
Public hearings; other requirements. In addition to the requirements in subsection (a) above, certain sections of this Code require that a public hearing be properly called, advertised and conducted concerning certain proposed amendments, prior to the council's consideration and adoption of said amendments. These public hearing requirements, along with any other provisions of this Code pertaining to such amendments, shall be adhered to by the council.
(c)
Amendments to Code. The council may also from time to time adopt regulations that currently do not exist in the Code, or otherwise make revisions or changes to the structure or content of the Code itself. In so doing, the council shall follow the procedures set forth in subsection (a) above. In addition, the council shall conduct a public hearing if such a hearing is required by law or by the charter of the city. If the council votes to adopt new regulations, or votes to otherwise make revisions or changes to the structure or content of the Code, then the city manager shall make the regulations a physical part of the Code. Said new regulations shall immediately upon adoption by the council become part of this Code.
(Former § 1-003(1.1—1.3))
Sec. 1-4. - Rules of construction.
In the construction of this Code the following rules shall be observed, unless such construction would be inconsistent with the manifest intent of the council:
(1)
General rule. All words and phrases shall be construed and understood according to the common and approved usage of the language; but technical words and phrases and such others as may have acquired a peculiar and appropriate meaning in the law shall be construed and understood according to such peculiar and appropriate meaning.
(2)
Delegation of authority. Whenever this Code requires the head of a department or other officer of the city to do some act or perform some duty, it shall be construed to authorize subordinates to do the required act or perform the required duty unless the terms of the Code require otherwise.
(3)
Computation of time. The time within which an act is to be done as provided in this Code or in any order issued thereunder, when expressed in days, shall be computed by excluding the first day and including the last, except if the last day is Sunday or a holiday it shall be excluded; when any such time is expressed in hours, Sunday, from midnight to midnight, shall be excluded.
(4)
Overlapping provisions. Where any provision of this Code imposes greater restrictions upon the subject matter than any general provisions imposed by this Code, the provision imposing the greater restriction or regulation shall be applicable.
(Former § 1-003(2.))
Sec. 1-5. - Violations and penalties.
(a)
Violations. Except as otherwise provided herein, any person who violates the Code shall be guilty of a misdemeanor, and may be prosecuted in the city court.
(b)
Penalties.
(1)
Penalties specified by Code section. The monetary and/or civil penalties to be imposed upon persons who violate the Code are specified within the individual sections of this Code, except as otherwise established by the council or by law.
(2)
Penalty where no penalty provided. Any person who violates this Code for which no penalty has been set forth shall, upon conviction, be subject to punishment by a fine not to exceed $1,000.00, or by confinement for a maximum term not to exceed six months, or both.
(3)
Each day violation occurs constitutes separate offense. Except as otherwise specified herein, any violation of this Code shall constitute a separate offense each day it occurs, and be subject to a separate penalty for each day of violation.
(c)
Enforcement.
(1)
City manager. Except as otherwise specified herein, the city manager is responsible for daily administration of the Code. This includes, but is not limited to, ensuring the Code is viable and up to date, applying the Code, and informing the council on any need to amend the Code.
(2)
Citations. Except as otherwise specified herein, the city manager should see that any person violating this Code is issued a citation to appear in the city court.
(Former § 1-004)
Sec. 1-6. - Severability.
(a)
Severability.
(1)
General. If any chapter, section, paragraph, phrase or clause or any part of the Code shall be declared invalid or unconstitutional, or if the provisions of any part of said document as applied to any particular situation or set of circumstances shall be declared invalid or unconstitutional, such invalidity shall not be construed to affect the portions of this document not so held to be invalid, or the application of the Code to other circumstances not so held to be invalid. It is hereby declared as the intent of the council that the Code would have been adopted had such invalid portion not been included herein.
(2)
Conflicts between specific and general provisions. Where there is an apparent conflict in this Code between specific and general provisions, the specific shall control.
(b)
Repeal of conflicting provisions. All Codes and ordinances, or parts thereof, in conflict with the contents of this Code, and not preserved hereby, are hereby repealed, and this Code shall remain in effect until amended or repealed by the council.
(Former § 1-002)
Sec. 1-7. - Adoption of state minimum standard codes.
(a)
Intent and purpose. It is the desire of the city to adopt, in all respects, the various standard codes relating to amusement devised, building, fire prevention, gas, grading, housing, mechanical, plumbing and swimming pools.
(b)
The adoption of these codes is done to facilitate proper inspection activities by the city, Walton and Newton Counties, Georgia relating to construction and to maintenance of buildings within the corporate limits of said town and relating to public safety, health and general welfare.
(c)
The following codes are hereby adopted by reference in the form referenced below as amended and approved by the state department of community affairs as though they were copied herein fully:
(1)
International Building Code, 2018 Edition.
(2)
International Fuel Gas Code, 2018 Edition.
(3)
International Mechanical Code, as published by the International Code Council, 2018 Edition.
(4)
International Plumbing Code, 2018 Edition.
(5)
National Electrical Code, 2017 Edition.
(6)
International Fire Code as published by the International Code Council, 2018 Edition.
(7)
International Residential Code for One- and Two-Family Dwellings, 2012 Edition.
(8)
International Swimming Pool and Spa Code, 2018 Edition.
(9)
International Existing Building Code, 2018 Edition.
(10)
International Property Maintenance Code, 2012 Edition.
(11)
Life Safety Code, as published by the National Fire Protection Association.
(12)
International Energy Conservation Code, 2015 Edition.
(13)
National Green Building Standard, 2008 Edition.
(14)
Georgia 120-3-20, or otherwise known as the Accessibility Code.
(d)
The State Minimum Fire Safety Standards adopted in the rules and regulations promulgated by the safety and fire commissioner pursuant to O.C.G.A. §§ 25-2-1 et seq., and O.C.G.A. §§ 8-2-200 et seq., including all subsequent revisions thereof (the "State Rules and Regulations"), are adopted herein by reference.
(e)
Notwithstanding any other provisions of law or any local ordinance to the contrary, in the event of a conflict between the state rule and regulations and any other adopted by reference herein, the provisions of the state rules and regulations shall prevail. Subject to the forgoing, in the event of any conflict between any specific code or standard, the following shall act as the guide:
EXPAND
Area Primary Supplement
Occupancy Classification LSC IBC
Building Construction types including allowable height, allowable building areas, and the requirements for sprinkler protection related to minimum building construction types. IBC LSC
Means of Egress LSC None
Standpipes IBC IFC
Interior Finish LSC None
HVAC Systems IMC None
Vertical Openings LSC None
Sprinkler Systems Minimum Construction Standard LSC None
Smoke Alarms and Smoke Detection Systems State
Statute None
Portable Extinguishers IFC None
Cooking Equipment LSC and
NFPA 96 None
Fuel Fired Appliances IFGC NFPA 54
Liquefied Petroleum Gas NFPA 58 NFPA 54
Compressed Natural Gas NFPA 52 None
LSC = Life Safety Code
IFC = International Fire Code
IBC = International Building Code
IMC = International Mechanical Code
IFGC = International Fuel Gas Code
NFPA = National Fire Protection Association
  (Ord. No. 2020-1, § 1, 2-18-2020)
