ARTICLE 12. - GC—GENERAL COMMERCIAL[4]

Footnotes:
--- (4) ---
Cross reference— Businesses, ch. 18.

Sec. 1201. - Purpose.
GC zoning districts are intended to provide adequate space for various types of general commercial business uses, including the retailing of major goods and services of larger scale than allowed in NC districts and other types of more intensive commercial activities involving non industrial use of chemicals, outdoor displays, sales and storage and establishments that rely on highway oriented passerby traffic.
Sec. 1202. - Permitted uses.
A.
The following principal uses are permitted in GC districts:
1.
Uses permitted in the NC district and any retail business or service which does not have continuous, unenclosed outside storage, and which is not otherwise listed herein.
2.
Gasoline service station that meets the following development standards:
a.
All structures, including underground storage tanks, must be placed at least 30 feet from any property line.
b.
Curb cuts must be located at least 15 feet from the intersection of street lines.
3.
Hotel.
4.
Office.
5.
Bank.
6.
Radio station.
7.
Printing, copying, publishing establishment.
8.
Off-street parking lot or parking garage.
9.
Auctions.
10.
Education or training facility..
11.
Lodge or club.
12.
Local, state, or federal government building.
13.
(Reserved).
14.
Outdoor advertising sign.
15.
Automobile sales and service establishment, excluding the sales and storage of junked vehicles..
16.
Intermediate care home.
17.
Nursing home.
18.
Personal care home, group or congregate.
19.
Day care facility meeting the following development standards:
a.
Compliance with the rules promulgated by the Georgia Department of Human Resources, where applicable.
20.
Offices and banks.
21.
Schools, churches, libraries and public buildings.
a.
A 25-foot buffer must be provided along all side and rear property lines.
b.
No property line on which any proposed church is to be established shall be located within 300 feet of the main entrance of an establishment which has been licensed for the sale of alcoholic beverages.
22.
Taxistands.
23.
Bus stations.
24.
Temporary commercial uses, such as but not limited to circuses and carnivals and auto auctions, provided that the following regulations are met.
a.
The sheriff's department approves of the temporary use with regard to access to the site and appropriate traffic control management while the activities are conducted.
b.
The county health department approves the temporary use with regard to potable water availability and the adequacy and number of sanitary facilities (e.g., portable toilets).
c.
The zoning administrator, after receiving approval from the sheriff and health departments, shall issue a temporary permit for said use, which shall not exceed 14 days and which may include conditions of permit issuance as may be necessary to protect the public interest and implement the requirements of the sheriff's and health departments; provided, however, that no permit shall be issued if the applicant, or the applicant's agents, or others so closely related to the current applicant as to constitute a common endeavor, has been issued a prior permit which use resulted in complaints indicating that the use was detrimental or potentially detrimental to the health, safety or general welfare of the citizens of the county and where, after reasonable inquiry into the complaints, the zoning administer is satisfied that the issuance of a new permit and the requested use may reasonably be expected to expose the county to a similar threat.
d.
The sheriff's department and the county health department shall approve or deny their approval within ten (10) days of an application for a temporary use. If denied, reasons for the denial shall be stated in writing. Within fifteen (15) days of the receipt of a completed application, the zoning administrator shall approve or deny the temporary use in writing to the applicant. If the use is denied, the zoning administrator shall state the reasons for denial in writing and provide said decision to the applicant. If the temporary permit is denied, an applicant may appeal said decision to the Screven County Superior Court by petition for Writ of Certiorari within thirty (30) days of the decision.
B.
The following principal uses are permitted as conditional uses in GC districts:
1.
Manufactured homes, single-family dwellings, multifamily dwellings.
2.
Flea markets.
3.
Wholesale operations.
4.
Parking areas.
5.
Funeral homes.
6.
Reserved.
7.
Retail businesses which allow off-premises consumption and on-premises consumption sales of alcoholic beverages (subject to compliance with applicable Screven County codes).
8.
Utility substation meeting the following development standards:
a.
Structures must be placed at least 30 feet from all property lines.
b.
Structures must be enclosed by a woven-wire fence at least eight feet high with bottom of fence either flush with the ground or with a masonry footing.
c.
No vehicles or equipment may be stored on the lot.
d.
A 25-foot minimum buffer must be maintained along the side and rear property lines.
e.
Lot size may be reduced to not less than 0.5 acre for utility substations provided other development standards are met and, if a private well is to be placed on the lot, the lot size is sufficient to support a well consistent with the other provisions of this ordinance, other ordinances, and the laws and regulations of the State of Georgia.
9.
Communications towers as permitted and governed by the provisions of article 17 of this ordinance.
C.
The following accessory uses are permitted in GC districts:
1.
Those determined by the zoning administrator to be customarily incidental and subordinate to the principal use.
2.
Manufacturing in connection with the principal retail business or service on the lot meeting the following standards:
a.
Occupies less than 40 percent of the floor area.
b.
Employs no more than five persons. (The intent here is to ensure that activities which are primarily manufacturing in nature are directed away from commercial zoning districts and into manufacturing zoning districts. Establishments with five or fewer manufacturing employees in connection with a commercial activity are considered to be primarily commercial and compatible with a commercial district. Manufacturing activities with more than five employees would be considered large enough to belong in a manufacturing district with other such uses rather than in a commercial district.)
(Ord. No 2003-06, § 2, 4-8-2003; Ord. of 11-9-2004(2), § 24; Ord. of 4-13-2021(2), § 35)
Sec. 1203. - Development standards for GC districts.
The following standards are required within GC districts:
EXPAND
A. Minimum heated floor
area for buildings: 1,000 square feet.
B. Minimum lot area:
1. Private water and sewer: 30,000 square feet and as specified by the Screven County Health Department.
2. Public water and sewer: 12,000 square feet
3. Public water only: 20,000 square feet
C. Minimum lot width: 100 feet.
D. Minimum front yard setback: 35 feet.
E. Minimum side yard setback: 15 feet (interior)
35 feet (street).
F. Minimum rear yard setback: 15 feet.
  G.
Maximum building height: Maximum building height shall not exceed 45 feet. This height limit does not apply to projections not intended for human habitation. For buildings and structures with such projections, the minimum required yards must be increased one foot for every two feet (or part of two feet) of height greater than 45 feet.
H.
(Reserved).
I.
Sight distance: Within 30 feet of an intersection's pavement edge, plants cannot be of a type which will obstruct the view of vehicular traffic. There may be some flexibility in regard to the maximum trunk diameter when protected by a guardrail or some other suitable type barrier beyond 30 feet from [the] intersection's pavement edge. Almost any type of planted vegetation is permissible.
J.
Applicability to land and buildings: No building, structure or land may be used or occupied—and no building or structure or part of a building or structure may be erected, constructed, reconstructed, moved, or structurally altered—unless in conformity with all of the regulations specified for the district in which it is located.
K.
Every use must be on a lot: No building or structure may be erected or use established unless upon a lot as defined by this ordinance.
L.
Multiple principal buildings on commercial lots: More than one principal building and its accessory buildings may be erected on a lot in a GC zoning district, except for single-family dwellings.
M.
Open space not to be encroached upon: No open space may be encroached upon or reduced in any manner except in conformity with the yard, setback, off-street parking spaces, and other such required development standards contained in the ordinance. Shrubbery, driveways, retaining walls, fences, curbs, and buffers (see definition in article 2) are not considered to be encroachments of yards. Open space areas as required by this ordinance must be permanently maintained as open space in accordance with the requirements of this ordinance.
N.
Reduction of yards or lot area: Except as otherwise provided in this ordinance, a lot existing at the time of passage of this ordinance may not be reduced, divided, or changed so as to produce a tract of land which does not comply with the minimum dimension or area requirements of this ordinance for the district in which it is located unless that reduction or division is necessary to provide land which is needed and accepted for public use.
O.
Lots with multiple frontage: In the case of a corner lot or double frontage lot, front yard setback requirements apply to all lot lines abutting a street.
P.
Landlocked lots: In the case of a landlocked lot (lot without direct access to a public street or road) lawfully existing as of the effective date of this ordinance, the property owner is entitled to one building permit, as long as all of the following requirements are met:
1.
No other principal building exists or is being constructed on the property.
2.
No other valid building permit has been issued prior to the effective date of this ordinance and is currently valid.
3.
The property was and continues to be under single ownership since the effective date of this ordinance.
4.
The property owner has acquired a 30-foot easement to a city-, county-, or state-maintained street or road, and the easement has been duly recorded and made a part of the property deed.
5.
In the event the property is divided, no additional permits will be issued.
Q.
Street frontage: No principal building may be erected on any lot which has less than 30 feet of immediate frontage on at least one public street.
R.
Yards and other spaces: No part of a yard, other open space, off-street parking, or loading space required for another building may be included as a part of the yard, off-street parking, or loading space required for another building, except as specifically provided for in this ordinance.
S.
Substandard lots: Any lot existing at the time of the adoption of this ordinance, which has an area or a width which is less than required by this ordinance, is subject to the following exceptions and modifications:
1.
Adjoining lots in same ownership: When two or more adjoining and vacant lots within a nonapproved development with continuous frontage are in a single ownership at the time of application and such lots have a frontage or lot area less than is required by the district in which they are located, such lots must be replatted or reparceled so as to create one or more lots which conform to the minimum frontage and area requirements of the district;
2.
Single lot: When a lot has an area or frontage which does not conform with the requirements of the district in which it is located, but was a lot at the effective date of this ordinance, such a lot may be used for any use allowed in the zoning district in which it is located as long as all other requirements of this ordinance are met.
T.
Encroachment on public rights-of-way: No building, structure, service area, required off-street parking, or loading/unloading facility is permitted to encroach on public rights-of-way.
U.
Physical design standards: Minimum design standards for driveways, loading areas, and other such physical site improvements are contained in applicable development regulations of Screven County. Consult the zoning administrator for specific requirements.
V.
Off-street parking and service requirements: Minimum standards for off-street parking and service requirements are contained in the Screven County Standard for Off-street Parking and Service Facilities (appendix B [to this appendix]).
W.
Other applicable development regulations: Information concerning any other applicable development regulations may be obtained from the zoning administrator.
X.
Signs: Minimum design and location standards for signs are contained in the Screven County Sign Ordinance. Consult that document [article 18 of this appendix] for specific requirements.
Y.
(Reserved).
(Ord. of 11-9-2004(2), § 25)
