ARTICLE 2. - DEFINITIONS OF TERMS USED

Sec. 201. - Interpretation of certain common terms.
When used in this ordinance, the following words and phrases have the meaning as defined in this article. Terms not defined here have the same meaning as is found in American Heritage College Dictionary, 4th Edition, here consistent with the context. The terms "must," "will," and "shall" are mandatory in nature, indicating that an action has to be done. The term "may" is permissive and allows discretion regarding an action. When consistent with the context, words used in the singular number include the plural, and those used in the plural number include the singular. Words used in the present tense include the future. The word "developer" includes a "firm," "corporation," "copartnership," "association," "institution," or "person." The word "lot" includes the words "plot" and "parcel." The word "building" includes the word "structure." The word "used" or "occupied," as applied to any land or building, includes in its meaning the word "intended," "arranged," or "designed," "to be used" or "occupied."
(Ord. of 4-13-2021(2), § 2)
Sec. 202. - Definitions.
A.
General.
Administrator, zoning: The person appointed by the County Manager of Screven County to serve as the officer for administration of this zoning ordinance. Same as Building Official.
Agriculture: The raising of soil crops, livestock, fish, fowl, and commercial timber in a customary manner on tracts of land at least three acres in size, including all associated activities including, but not limited to, retail selling of products raised on the premises is permitted, provided that space necessary for the parking of customers' vehicles is provided off the public right-of-way. Commercial greenhouses and nurseries. See also section 702.
Airport: A transportation terminal facility where aircraft take off and land.
Airstrip, private: An area designated for the takeoff and landing of private, noncommercial aircraft, with no terminal facilities and no scheduled takeoffs and landings.
Alley: A secondary way that affords access to the side or rear of abutting property.
Antenna, dish: An outside structure intended for receiving audio or video signals via a satellite orbiting the earth. It is constructed of a round or square surface that is parabolically curved focusing on a low-noise signal amplifier and the apparatus is mounted on a base. Such antennas must meet the following development standards as well as all other applicable regulations:
1.
They must not exceed a size of 18 feet in diameter or exceed the height limitations for the district in which they are located.
Automobile service station: A land use where gasoline, oils, greases, batteries, tires, and general automobile accessories may be provided, but where no part of the premises is used for the storage or dismantling of wrecked or junked vehicles.
Block: A piece or parcel of land entirely surrounded by public highways or streets, other than alleys.
Board of commissioners: The Board of Commissioners of Screven County.
Boardinghouse: A multiple dwelling in which meals and lodging or just lodging are furnished for compensation to more than four but fewer than 20 persons. Provisions for meals may be made, provided [that] cooking is done in a central kitchen and not in individual rooms or suites. Other than a hotel or motel.
Boathouse: A house or shed for sheltering one or more boats which must be the property of the owner of the tract of land (shall conform to accessory building standards).
Buffer: A landscaped open area and/or screened area designed to separate incompatible uses.
Building: Any structure having a roof and intended for shelter, housing, or enclosure of persons, animals, or property of any kind.
Buildable area: That portion of any lot which may be used or built upon in accordance with the regulations governing the given zoning district within which the particular lot is located, once the various front, side and rear yard requirements required for the district have been subtracted from the total area.
Building, accessory: A structure used for a purpose that is customarily incidental and subordinate to the principal use or structure, and located on the same lot as such a principal use or structure.
Building, principal: The building on a lot in which the principal use of the lot is conducted.
Building height: The vertical distance measured from the average elevation of the finished grade along the front of the building to that elevation equal to the elevation of the highest point of the building.
Building line: A line extended along the foundation of a building from which is measured the distance that a building must be set back to meet the minimum distance from the building line to the front, rear or side property line or in some cases, to the centerline of an adjacent roadway.
Building official: One of the persons, officers or officials or his authorized representative, whom the county manager has appointed to administer and enforce the building code.
Building site: The ground area of a building or buildings together with all open spaces surrounded by said building or buildings or any area where land disturbing activity is proposed.
Camper: A motor home, tent, trailer, or other self-contained vehicle designed for recreational purposes. This type of vehicle shall not be considered as a permanent habitable space.
Campground: Any parcel or tract of real property that is designed for camping or outdoor recreation and containing two or more camping spaces offered for the use of the public or members of an organization. Campgrounds may or may not necessarily be designed to accommodate recreational vehicles. Campgrounds may be "primitive," where no sanitary facilities are provided for the comfort and convenience of campers. Campgrounds may be "semi-primitive," where rudimentary facilities (privies and/or fireplaces) may be provided. Campgrounds may be "developed," where utilities (sewer, water, and electricity), restrooms and refuse disposal are available. Campgrounds may be "fully developed," with one or more service buildings.
Cemetery: Land either already reserved for burial plots or which may, in the future, be so reserved; it may be maintained either by a family, a church or other place of worship, or a business.
Centerline, street: That line surveyed and monumented by the governing authority as the centerline of a street, or if such a centerline has not been surveyed, it is the line running midway between the outside curbs or ditches of the street.
Church: A building in which persons regularly assemble for religious worship, which is used for such purpose, along with any accessory activities, such as school, and as are customarily associated therewith.
City: Any incorporated municipality in Screven County.
Clinic: An establishment where medical or dental patients are admitted for examination and treatment, but where there is no overnight lodging.
Club or lodge: An incorporated or unincorporated association for civic, social, cultural, religious, fraternal, literary, political, recreation, or like activities, operated for the benefit of its members and not open to the general public.
Community living arrangement means any residence, whether operated for profit or not, which undertakes through its ownership or management to provide or arrange for the provision of daily personal services, supports, care, or treatment exclusively for two or more adults who are not related to the owner or administrator by blood or marriage and whose residential services are financially supported, in whole or in part, by funds designated through the Department of Human Resources, Division of Mental Health, Developmental Disabilities, and Addictive Diseases. A community living arrangement is also referred to as a "residence" that complies with the rules and regulation of Ga Comp. R. & Regs, Chapter 290-9-37, Rules and Regulations for Community Living Arrangements.
Completed application means an application which contains sufficient information showing all required and related information, which information is provided at the time of application and which has been reviewed and approved by the zoning administrator following determination that it is complete, and, as to major developments and subdivisions of more than five lots, the applicant has been notified by certified mail of that determination.
Conditional use: A use, specifically designated in this zoning ordinance, that may cause harmful or undesirable effects on surrounding or nearby properties within a given zoning district, but would in the opinion of the board of commissioners promote the public health, safety, morals, welfare, order, comfort, convenience, appearance, prosperity, or general welfare if such uses were controlled as to number, area, location, or relation to the neighborhood or, in the alternative, the application of any other standard provided by this zoning ordinance. A conditional use request shall apply to only one lot or parcel per request.
County: Screven County.
Curb cut: The point at which vehicular access is provided to an adjoining street from a lot.
DCA: Georgia Department of Community Affairs.
Day care facility: A facility designed and intended to provide care for children under the age of 15 years for not more than 12 hours per day. The maximum number of children permitted at such center shall be the greater of six or the maximum number permitted by the rules established by the Department of Human Resources for the State of Georgia.
Density: The number of dwelling units per acre of land use for residential purposes. Unless otherwise stated, density figures are to be in terms of net acres, or the land devoted to residential use exclusive of streets or other public lands.
Domesticated animal: An animal that is accustomed to living in or about the habitation of humans including, but not limited to, cows, dogs, cats, fowl, horses, swine, goats, rabbits, caged wild animals, and exotic animals.
Easement: The right or privilege of using another's property, for purposes such as construction and maintaining sanitary sewers, water mains, electric lines, telephone lines, storm sewers, gas lines, bicycle paths, ingress/egress, [and] pedestrian ways.
Equipment, heavy: Any equipment which has a gross vehicle weight, including the weight of the vehicle and its load, of more than 56,000 pounds.
Family: Two or more persons occupying a single dwelling unit where all members are related by blood, marriage, adoption, or in foster care.
1.
No single dwelling unit located in a single-family residential zoning district shall have more than four unrelated individuals residing therein, nor shall any "family" have, additionally, more than four unrelated individuals residing with said family.
2.
When the dwelling is located in any zoning district other than a single-family residential district, one of the following is permitted:
a.
Family related by blood, marriage, adoption or foster care may have two additional unrelated individuals; or
b.
Unrelated individuals not exceeding four.
3.
In all cases, household employees employed on the premises may be housed on the premises without being counted as a separate family or unrelated individual. The term "family" does not include any organization or institutional group.
Family burial plot: A place dedicated to and used, or intended to be used, for permanent interment of human remains, where said remains are of a family member of the property owner.
Family member: A child, grandchild, parent, grandparent, brother, sister or those similarly related by remarriage.
Farm: Any tract or parcel of land containing three or more acres on which bona fide agricultural and related uses are conducted as defined in "agriculture."
Flood boundary: That area delineated on the flood insurance rate map, published by the Federal Emergency Management Agency (FEMA) and as amended from time to time, which shows the boundary of the 100-year floodplain.
Floor area: The area of a dwelling exclusive of attic, basement, garage, carport, patios, and open porches measured from the exterior face of the exterior walls of a dwelling. Also, the gross leasable floor area for any business or industry based on interior dimensions.
Garage, public: Any garage, other than a private garage or carport, which is used for storage, parking, minor repair, rental, servicing, washing, adjusting, or equipping of automobiles or other motor vehicles, but not including the storage of wrecked or junked vehicles.
Garage, repair: A public garage intended to be used to make major commercial automobile, motorcycle, lawn mower, or other motor vehicle repairs; should meet the following development standards as well as all other applicable regulations:
1.
All body work and painting must be conducted within a fully enclosed building.
2.
No open storage of junk, wrecked vehicles, dismantled parts, or supplies visible beyond the premises is permitted.
Garage or carport, private: A covered space for the storage of one or more motor vehicles that is accessory to the principal use on the lot. No business, occupation or service may be conducted for profit within the private garage except a home occupation or a garage sale, provided [that] the garage sale is not conducted on a regular basis as part of the occupation or business of the owner or occupant of the garage.
Gray water. Water that is contaminated with soap, grease, etc., normally associated with bathing of people, washing dishes, laundry, and waste water from cooking. This term does not include human or animal body wastes.
Home occupation: An occupation for gain or support conducted by members of a family residing on the premises, and other employees, entirely within the principal or accessory building(s). The following standards must be met by all home occupations:
1.
No home occupation shall employ more than two persons who do not reside in the dwelling located on the premises.
2.
The home occupation must be incidental and subordinate to the residential use of the dwelling and must not change the residential character of the property.
3.
No display of products shall be visible from the street.
4.
The following and similar uses shall be considered home occupations, but are not limited to this list: accountant, addressing service, architect, art instructor, beauty shop (with no more than one operator), drafting, dressmaking, insurance agent, manufacturing agent, music instruction (students: limited to two students at a time), teacher, notary public, photographer, real estate agent, and tax consultant. The following and similar uses are considered appropriate uses of accessory buildings for home occupations: artist or craftsman's work area, photographic darkroom, clock repair shop, gunsmith shop, laboratory, potters shop, and basket weaver's shop.
5.
No internal or external alterations shall be permitted which would change the fire rating for the structure.
a.
If an accessory structure is used for the business, the size of the accessory structure is limited to 25 percent of the square footage of the residential building. It shall be located behind the residential building with setback requirements of no less than 20 feet from the rear property line and 30 feet from the side property line.
b.
One nonilluminated nameplate, not more than two square feet in area, may be attached to the building which shall contain only the name of the occupation conducted on the premises.
c.
A home occupation shall be operated in such a manner as not to be a nuisance to adjacent residential structures. This shall apply to noise, lighting, traffic, and unsightly outside storage, where applicable.
6.
No outside storage of materials or supplies used in connection with the home occupation shall be permitted.
7.
All parking for the home occupation shall be located on the property and only on the side or rear yards.
8.
Only vehicles designed and used primarily as passenger vehicles (including pickup trucks) shall be used in connection with home occupations in residential zoning district.
Hotel: A building in which overnight accommodations for transient guests are provided, but which does not provide separate cooking facilities. The term "hotel" includes the terms "motel" and "tourist court."
Hunting camp. A campground used seasonally by a property owner, and/or used with permission of the property owner by guests without a fee, containing improved spaces or unimproved land area for five or less tents, recreational vehicles, travel trailers, or campers. A campsite meeting this definition but with more than five campsites is a campground as defined in this zoning ordinance.
Industrialized building: Any structure or component thereof, which is, wholly or in substantial part, made, fabricated, formed, or assembled in manufacturing facilities for installation or assembly and installation on a building site and has been manufactured in such a manner that all parts or processes cannot be inspected at the installation site without disassembly, damage to, or destruction thereof; and which bears the insignia of approval issued the commissioner of the department of community affairs.
Intermediate care home: A facility that admits residents on medical referral. It maintains the services and facilities for institutional care and has a satisfactory agreement with a physician and dentist who will provide continuing supervision including emergencies. It otherwise complies with the rules and regulations contained in chapter 111-8-47: Intermediate Care Homes (Rules of the Georgia Department of Community Health).
Junkyard: Any use involving the parking, storage or disassembly of three or more junked vehicles, or wrecked or nonoperable automobiles, trucks, or other vehicles; storage, bailing, or otherwise dealing in scrap iron and other metals, used plumbing fixtures, old stoves, old refrigerators, and other old household appliances, and used brick, wood, or other building materials. These uses are considered junkyards whether or not all or part of these operations are conducted inside a building or in connection with, in addition to, or accessory to other uses of the premises.
Junked vehicle: Any wrecked or nonoperable automobile, truck, or other vehicle that does not bear a current license plate.
Kennel: The housing for four or more dogs, cats, or other domestic animals for the purpose of providing an income or revenue.
Loading space: Space logically and conveniently located for pickup and delivery service, scaled to the vehicles expected to be used, and accessible to such vehicles at all time.
Lot: A parcel of land under single or multiple ownership occupied or capable of being occupied by one or more buildings and customarily incidental accessory buildings or uses, including such open spaces as are required by this ordinance. In cases where a lot is divided by a county-maintained road, the lot shall be considered as two separate lots even if shown on county tax maps under one tax ID.
1.
Lot, corner: A lot located at the intersection of two or more streets.
2.
Lot, double frontage: A lot, other than a corner lot, which has frontage on more than one street.
3.
Lot, substandard: see infra.
Lot width: The distance between side lot lines measured at the front building line. If the lot is a corner lot, the lot width shall be the distance between the lot lines measured along the front building line.
Municipal solid waste: Any garbage or refuse, sludge from a wastewater treatment plant, water supply treatment plant, or air pollution control facility; and other discarded material including solid, liquid, semisolid, or contained gaseous material resulting from industrial, commercial, mining, and agricultural operations and community activities, but does not include recovered materials; solid or dissolved materials in domestic sewage, biomedical waste, coal ash, hazardous waste, solid or dissolved materials in irrigation return flows or industrial discharges that are point sources subject to permit under 33 U.S.C. Section 1342; or source, special nuclear, or by-product material as defined by the federal Atomic Energy Act of 1954, as amended (68 Stat. 923) Solid waste management means the systematic administration of activities which provide for the collection, source separation, storage, transportation, transfer, processing, treatment, and disposal of solid waste.
Municipal solid waste facility (MSWF) includes any facility for the collection, source separation, storage, transportation, transfer, processing, treatment or disposal of solid wastes.
Municipal solid waste facility site boundaries describe the approved location area or site for a solid waste management facility including all associated buildings, repair facilities, scales, transfer areas, runoff collection area, leachate collection system and holding tanks, roads, drainage collection system, solid waste disposal area fill and all associated equipment or other types of improvements.
Municipal solid waste transfer facility means any location outside a permitted solid waste facility for the purpose of transferring solid waste from one container, truck, rail car, or any other transportation vehicle, to another. County collection containers are not, and the collection of household waste is not, considered to be a "Municipal solid waste transfer facility.
Nursing home: A freestanding facility or distinct part or unit of a hospital required to be licensed or permitted as a nursing home under the provisions of O.C.G.A. Title 31, Chapter 8, Article 5, which is not owned or operated by the state or federal government.
Open space: An area that is intended to provide light and air and within which a structure is prohibited under the provisions of this ordinance.
Parking space: The storage space for one motor vehicle. (See Standard Building Code of SBCCI for dimension standards required of standard parking spaces and those accessible to handicapped persons.)
Personal care home: Any dwelling, whether operated for profit or not, which undertakes through its ownership or management to provide or arrange for the provision of housing, food service, and one or more personal services for two or more adults who are not related to the owner or administrator by blood or marriage that complies with the rules and regulation contained in Ga Comp. R. & Regs, Chapter 111-8-62.
Planning and zoning commission: The Screven County Planning and Zoning Commission.
Plat: A map, plan, or layout of a county, city, town, section, or subdivision indicating the location and boundaries of properties.
Private club: Buildings and facilities owned or operated by a corporation, association, person, or persons, for a social, educational, or recreational purpose, to which membership is required and where use of premises are restricted to members and their guests. The definition, "Private club" shall also include, in the appropriate context where an alcohol license, a "bona fide private club" as that term is defined in O.C.G.A. 3-7-1, which is defined as follows: Any nonprofit association organized under the laws of this state which:
1.
Has been in existence at least one year prior to the filing of its application for a license to be issued pursuant to O.C.G.A. 3-7-1;
2.
Has at least 75 regular dues-paying members;
3.
Owns, hires, or leases a building or space within a building for the reasonable use of its members, which building or space has suitable kitchen and dining room space and equipment and is staffed with a sufficient number of employees for cooking, preparing, and serving meals for its members and guests; and
4.
Has no member, officer, agent, or employee directly or indirectly receiving, in the form of salary or other compensation, any profits from the sale of alcoholic beverages beyond a fixed salary.
Public water: Water service provided by Screven County, incorporated areas within the county, or a private water system approved by the Department of Natural Resources.
Public sewer: Sanitary sewer service provided by Screven County or incorporated areas within the county.
Recreational vehicle: A vehicular-type, portable structure without a permanent foundation that can be towed, hauled, or driven and is primarily designed as a temporary living accommodation for recreational, camping, and travel use and including, but not limited to, travel trailers, truck campers, camping trailers, and self propelled motor homes. Also see definitions of "camper," trailer court," "trailer park," "travel trailer," and "travel trailer park" in this Section 202.B of this zoning ordinance.
Recreational vehicle, dependent unit: A recreational vehicle that has no sewage disposal holding capacity and/or devices for connecting sewage disposal facilities to a community waste disposal system. Occupants of such units are dependent upon external water and waste disposal systems that cannot be connected to the unit.
Recreational vehicle, independent unit: A recreational vehicle containing holding capacity for potable water, gray water and human wastes, and/or has devices for connecting to sanitary sewers or on-site waste disposal systems, or pumping stations for waste disposal. Occupants of such units are independent of external water and waste disposal systems for a limited period because such systems are constructed in the units. However, on-board water systems must be replenished, and on-board gray water and human waste receptacles must be emptied in proper facilities from time to time.
Recreational vehicle park: A developed campground, governed by a set of public or private management rules, that accommodates recreational vehicles on camping spaces for paying guests and which may include park-owned recreational vehicle(s) for rent. A recreational vehicle park is distinguished from a campground in that all or some of the camping sites provide recreational vehicle utility connection assemblies to enable the camping unit to connect to water, sewage disposal, electric power, telephone and sometimes cable television.
Recycling center: A facility which may be held in public and/or private ownership and which is designated to sort and process materials (aluminum cans, glass, newspaper, tin, HPDE and PET plastics), which have been separated from waste normally discharged into sanitary landfills and sold for reuse in other markets.
Residential industrialized building means any dwelling unit designed and constructed in compliance with the Georgia State Minimum Standard One and Two Family Dwelling Code which is wholly or in substantial part made, fabricated, formed, or assembled in a manufacturing facility and cannot be inspected at the installation site without disassembly, damage to, or destruction thereof. Any such structure shall not contain a permanent metal chassis and shall be affixed to a permanent load-bearing foundation. The term shall not include manufactured homes as defined by the National Manufactured Housing Construction and Safety Standards Act of 1974, 42 U.S.C. Section 5401, et seq.
Right-of-way: A strip of land designed, reserved, dedicated, or purchased for the purpose of pedestrian or vehicular access or utility line installation and owned by a county or municipality.
Sewage dumping station: A facility used to remove, store, treat and/or dispose of sewage and gray water from recreational vehicles and recreational vehicle holding tanks.
Story: That portion of a building, not including a basement, between the surface of any floor and the surface of the floor next above it, or if there is no floor above, then the space between the floor and the ceiling next above it.
Street or road, arterial: A road that is on the Georgia state highway system and is designated by a state route number. Such a street primarily serves the purpose of moving traffic through the county.
Street or road, collector: A road that is not on the Georgia state highway system. Such a road would usually serve to distribute traffic from individual lots to arterial streets or roads. They may also connect neighborhoods with one another.
Street or road, local: A road that serves adjacent property by providing access to the road network. A local street or road is characterized by short trips, low speeds, and small traffic volumes. The design of this type of road should be toward eliminating through traffic.
Structure: Anything constructed or erected that requires a fixed location on the ground or which is attached to something having a fixed location on the ground.
Structure, nonconforming: A structure which does not comply with the zoning district development standards of that district in which the structure is located.
Subdivision: The division of a tract or parcel of land into two (2) or more lots.
Use: Any purpose for which a building or tract of land may be designed, arranged, maintained, or occupied; or any activity, occupation, business, or operation carried on, in a building or structure or a tract of land.
Use, accessory: A use incidental or subordinate to the principal use and located on the same lot as the principal use.
Use, nonconforming: A use of land or building, or both, which does not conform to the regulations and standards of the district in which either or both is located, but which would be allowed to continue under the provisions for nonconforming uses found in section 403.
Use, principal: The main purpose for which a lot is used.
Variance: A modification of the terms of this ordinance granted by the planning and zoning commission where such modifications will not be contrary to the public interest, and where owing to conditions peculiar to the property and not as a result of any action on the part of the property owner, a literal enforcement of this ordinance would result in unnecessary and undue hardship, provided, however, that no variance shall be granted which shall authorize a land use not otherwise permitted in a particular district.
Yard: A required open space on a lot that is left unoccupied with structures and facilities, except as permitted in this ordinance. A yard may also be known as a setback.
Yard, front: The open space on a lot located between the right-of-way boundary of the abutting street and the front building line as extended to the lot lines to either side. Any yard lying between an abutting street and the building line is considered a front yard. For example, in the case of a corner lot which is abutted on two sides by streets, both yards abutting the streets would be front yards; setbacks and other development standards for front yards would apply to both of these yards.
Yard, rear: The open space located between the rear property line and the rear building line as extended to the side lot lines.
Yard, side: The open space located between the side property line and the side building line as extended to the front and rear lot lines.
Zoning administrator: The person, officer or official, or his authorized representative, whom the county manager has appointed to administer and enforce the zoning ordinance.
B.
Housing.
1.
Conventional construction: A dwelling unit constructed on the building site from basic materials delivered to the site; and which is constructed in accordance with the Standard Building Code of the Southern Building Code Congress International (SBCCI), and meeting the following development standards:
a.
The pitch of the dwelling unit's roof has a minimum vertical rise of two feet for each 12 feet of horizontal run, except that any such dwelling unit for which a building permit was applied prior to the adoption of this ordinance may be extended, enlarged or repaired as otherwise provided by this ordinance with the same roof pitch as that allowed by the aforesaid building permit. Galvanized metal roofing allowed in AG-3 and commercial districts only.
b.
The exterior siding consists of wood, hardboard, vinyl, brick, masonry, aluminum (vinyl-covered or painted, but in no case exceeding the reflectivity of gloss white paint) comparable in composition, appearance, and durability to the exterior siding commonly used in conventional residential construction. Galvanized metal siding allowed in AG-3 and commercial districts only.
c.
A curtain wall, unpierced except for required ventilation and access and constructed of materials manufactured for such purposes including, but not limited to, brick, concrete, rock or other materials which have been approved by the building inspector is installed so that it encloses the area located under the home to the ground level.
d.
Landings of the requisite composition and size as per the Standard Building Code of the Southern Building Code Congress International, with said provisions being expressly incorporated by reference herein as part of this requirement.
2.
Dwelling: A building or portion thereof designed, arranged, or used principally for residential occupancy, not including motels, hotels, boardinghouses, or roominghouses.
3.
Dwelling, apartment: Three or more dwelling units, under a single ownership, designed for lease or rent and located on one lot of land designed and intended for lease or rental.
4.
Dwelling, cluster: One of a series of attached or detached dwelling units developed under a single ownership.
5.
Dwelling, condominium: An individually owned dwelling unit in an attached, detached, or multifamily structure, combined with joint ownership of common areas of the buildings and grounds.
6.
Dwelling, multiple-family: A building designed, constructed, altered or used for three or more adjoining dwelling units. A multiple-family dwelling may be apartments or condominiums.
7.
Dwelling, single-family attached: A building containing two or more single-family dwelling units joined at one or more points by one or more party walls or other common facilities (not including the walls of an enclosed courtyard or similar area) and with property lines separating each dwelling unit.
8.
Dwelling, single-family detached: A single residential detached building, manufactured home or site-built, designed for or containing one dwelling unit.
9.
Dwelling, two-family: A detached dwelling designed, constructed, altered, or used for two adjoining dwelling units, with each dwelling unit having a party wall connecting it with the other dwelling unit, located on one lot; also known as a duplex.
10.
Dwelling unit: One or more rooms within a dwelling forming a separate, independent housekeeping establishment for use of one family involving owner or renter occupancy, with provisions for cooking, eating, and sleeping.
11.
Factory-built housing: An obsolete term used to describe an industrialized building. See definition of Industrialized building.
12.
HUD: U.S. Department of Housing and Urban Development.
13.
Industrialized building: A home manufactured in accordance with the Georgia Industrialized Building Act and the Rules of the Commissioner of the Georgia Department of Community Affairs issued pursuant thereto. State-approved buildings meet the state building and construction codes and bear an insignia of approval issued by the commissioner, and meeting the following standards:
a.
The pitch of the home's roof has a minimum vertical rise of two feet for each 12 feet of horizontal run, and the roof is finished with a type of shingle that is commonly used in conventional residential construction, except that any such home for which a building permit was applied prior to the adoption of this ordinance may be extended, enlarged or repaired as otherwise provided by this ordinance with the same roof pitch as that allowed by the aforesaid building permit. Galvanized metal roofs allowed in AG-3 and commercial districts only.
b.
The exterior siding consists of wood, hardboard, vinyl, brick, masonry, or aluminum (vinyl-covered or painted, but in no case exceeding the reflectivity of gloss white paint) comparable in composition, appearance, and durability to the exterior siding commonly used in conventional residential construction. Galvanized metal siding allowed in AG-3 and commercial districts only.
c.
The structure must be attached to a permanent foundation. Neither a curtain wall nor skirting is sufficient to satisfy this requirement.
d.
Skirting, unpierced except for required ventilation and access and constructed of materials manufactured for such purposes, including brick, concrete, rock or other materials which have been approved by the building inspector is installed so that it encloses the area located under the building to the ground level.
e.
The tongue, axles, transporting lights, and towing apparatus are removed after placement on the lot and before occupancy.
f.
Landings of the requisite composition and size as per the Standard Building Code of the Southern Building Code Congress International, with said provisions being expressly incorporated by reference herein as part of this requirement.
14.
Manufactured home: A dwelling unit fabricated in an off-site facility for installation or assembly at the building site, bearing a label certifying it is constructed in compliance with the National Manufactured Housing Construction and Safety Standards Act of 1974, and amended, 42 USC 5401 et seq. (the HUD Code, which became effective on June 15, 1976) and meeting the design standards required in the Screven County Manufactured Home Ordinance No. 98-08.
15.
Manufactured home, pre-HUD: Any manufactured home that was not constructed to the HUD Code, which was adopted June 1976.
16.
Manufactured home space: An area of land within a planned manufactured home community designed to accommodate one manufactured home.
17.
Manufactured housing: A general term used to describe a type of housing that is produced, either completely or partially in a factory, including manufactured homes, modular homes, and industrialized buildings.
18.
Mobile home: A term used to describe a manufactured home manufactured prior to June 15, 1976. See Manufactured home, pre-HUD.
19.
Mobile home park: A term used to describe a planned manufactured home park as described in the Screven County Manufactured Home Ordinance No. 98-08.
20.
Modular home: A factory-fabricated single-family dwelling that is constructed in one or more sections and complies with the definition of industrialized building.
21.
Multisection home: A term used to describe a manufactured home finished in two or more sections.
22.
National Manufactured Housing Construction and Safety Standards: The national building code for all manufactured homes built since June 15, 1976, written and administered by the U.S. Department of Housing and Urban Development; also known as the HUD Code.
23.
Planned apartment home community: A lot used as a residential area occupied by apartment homes and conforming to an approved development plan; with appropriate and adequate community services, recreation facilities, utilities, streets, and sidewalks provided by the developer.
24.
Planned manufactured home community: A lot used as a residential area occupied by manufactured homes, and conforming to the requirements of Screven County Manufactured Home Ordinance No. 98-08.
25.
Prefabricated home: A general term used to describe any home constructed in a factory setting including manufactured homes, modular homes, and industrialized buildings.
26.
SBCCI: Southern Building Code Congress International.
27.
Sectional home: A general term used to describe any home constructed in a factory setting, especially manufactured homes.
28.
Singlewide: An obsolete term used to describe a mobile home or manufactured home having a width of between eight and 16 feet.
29.
Site-built home: See definition of conventional construction.
30.
Skirting: A durable material used to enclose the space from the bottom of the manufactured home to grade. See requirements relating to skirting in the Screven County Manufactured Home Ordinance No. 98-08.
31.
Stick-built home: See [the] definition of Conventional construction.
32.
Trailer: An obsolete term used to describe a manufactured home.
33.
Trailer court: An obsolete term used to describe a planned manufactured home community. See [the] definition of Planned manufactured home community.
34.
Trailer park: An obsolete term used to describe a planned manufactured home community. See [the] definition of Planned manufactured home community.
37.
Wall, curtain: A nonloadbearing wall between columns or piers and which is not supported by girders or beams, but is supported on the ground.
(Ord. of 11-9-2004(2), §§ 1, 2; Ord. of 9-22-2009(2), § 2; Ord. of 4-13-2021(2), §§ 3—10)
