ARTICLE 1. - GENERAL

Sec. 101. - Short title.
This document is entitled, "The Zoning Ordinance of Screven County, Georgia." It may also be known by and cited by the short title of "Screven County Zoning Ordinance."
Sec. 102. - Authority.
The power of a local government to enact an ordinance intended to protect the public health, safety, and welfare is provided by the provisions of the constitution and laws of the State of Georgia.
Sec. 103. - Jurisdiction.
This ordinance applies to all land within the unincorporated areas of Screven County, Georgia.
Sec. 104. - Purposes.
A.
The Zoning Ordinance of Screven County, Georgia, seeks to encourage development of desirable land use patterns within Screven County in accordance with the Screven County Comprehensive Plan. The promotion of sound land use patterns is intended to reduce or eliminate the occurrence of certain conditions that can threaten the general health, safety, and welfare of the residents of Screven County. This ordinance should serve the following purposes:
1.
Reduce the occurrence of hazardous traffic patterns and general congestion.
2.
Secure safety from fire, panic, and other dangers.
3.
Ensure that adequate light and air are provided.
4.
Prevent the overcrowding of land, urban sprawl, and undue concentration of population.
5.
Facilitate the adequate provision of public utilities, to facilitate the adequate provision of transportation, water, sewerage, schools, parks, and other public requirements and facilities.
6.
Promote adequate living conditions and sustained suitability of neighborhoods.
7.
Protect property against blight and depreciation.
8.
Promote the proper location, height, bulk, number of stories and size of buildings and other structures, the size of yards, courts, and the use of other open spaces, the use of buildings, structures, and land for trade, industry, residence, recreation, agriculture, forestry, conservation, sanitation, protection against floods, public activities, and other purposes.
9.
Encourage the most appropriate use of land, buildings, and structures for other purposes.
B.
Additional benefits to the public interest that can accrue from the development of sound land use patterns are as follows:
1.
Efficient development and use of community utility networks.
2.
Economy in governmental expenditures.
3.
A higher level of convenience, order, prosperity, and aesthetics.
Sec. 105. - Content.
This ordinance provides for the following:
A.
Defines certain terms used in this ordinance.
B.
Establishes certain land use districts and specifies the boundaries of those districts.
C.
Provides procedures for administering and amending the ordinance.
D.
Regulates the erection, alteration, and use of buildings and structures.
E.
Provides penalties for violation of this ordinance.
F.
Defines the powers and duties, as they relate to this ordinance, of the board of commissioners, as well as such administrative officers, bodies, and agencies as the board of commissioners may establish for the efficient exercise of the zoning powers of Screven County under provisions specified in the Zoning Procedures Act, O.C.G.A. § 36-66-1 et seq.
G.
Repeals conflicting ordinances.
Sec. 106. - Related uniform development ordinances.
A.
Uniform development standards. The following uniform development standards are referred to frequently in the Screven County Zoning Ordinance.
1.
Standard Building Code of Southern Building Code Congress International (SBCCI), as amended.
2.
Standard Mechanical Code of SBCCI, as amended.
3.
Standard Plumbing Code of SBCCI, as amended.
4.
National Electrical Code, as published by the National Fire Protection Association, as amended.
5
Council of American Building Officials (CABO) One and Two Family Dwelling Code, as amended, with the exception of Part V—Plumbing (chapters 20—25) of this code.
