ARTICLE 20. - LEGAL STATUS PROVISIONS

Sec. 2001. - Conflict with other laws.
Should any requirement or standard conflict with any other law, rule or regulation of local, state or federal government body or agency having jurisdiction, then the most restrictive of such shall be applied.
Sec. 2002. - Severability of provisions.
It is hereby declared to be the intention of the county that the sections, paragraphs, sentences, clauses and phrases of this ordinance hereby adopted are severable, and if any phrase, clause, sentence, paragraph or section of this ordinance hereby adopted shall be declared unconstitutional or otherwise invalid by the valid judgment or decree of a court of competent jurisdiction, this unconstitutionality or invalidity shall not affect any of the remaining phrases, clauses, sentences, paragraphs and sections of this ordinance hereby adopted.
Sec. 2003. - Effect of catchlines.
The catchlines of the several sections of this ordinance printed in boldface type are intended as mere catchwords to indicate the contents of the sections and shall not be deemed or taken to be titles of the sections nor as any part of the sections, nor, unless expressly so provided, shall they be so deemed when any of the sections, including the catchlines, are amended or reenacted.
Sec. 2004. - Effective date.
This ordinance shall be effective as of
EXPAND
[the date of adoption of this ordinance]
_____
Chairman, Screven County Board of Commissioners
Screven County, Georgia
_____
Attest:
_____
County Administrator
Screven County, Georgia
  APPENDIX A
MANUFACTURED HOME INSTALLATION
ELECTRICAL SPECIFICATIONS (DRAWINGS) [10]
(RESERVED)
APPENDIX B
STANDARDS FOR OFF-STREET PARKING AND SERVICE FACILITIES
Footnotes:
--- (10) ---
Editor's note— The subject manufactured home installation electrical specifications drawings were omitted from this codification. Official copies of such drawings are on file in the planning and zoning commission office.

Sec. 101. - Scope.
This standard covers specifications for off street parking and service facilities in Screven County. Requirements for such facilities are specified by zoning district in the Screven County Zoning Resolution [Ordinance]. That ordinance refers the reader to this standard for specifications of required facilities.
Sec. 102. - General standards for parking space design.
A.
Parking spaces must not be reduced. Off-street parking spaces must not be reduced below the minimum required number for the use or facility to which they are assigned.
B.
Drainage, construction, and maintenance. All off-street parking, loading, and service areas must be drained so as to prevent damage to abutting properties and/or public streets, and must be constructed of materials which will ensure a surface resistant to erosion. All such areas must be at all times maintained at the expense of the owners in a clean, orderly, and dustfree condition to the extent that it does not create a nuisance.
C.
Separation from walkways, sidewalks, and streets. All off-street parking, loading, and service areas must be separated from walkways, sidewalks, and streets by curbing or other suitable protective device.
D.
Parking area design. Parking stalls must have a minimum width of 9½ feet and [a] length of 20 feet. There must be provided adequate interior driveways to connect each parking space with a public right-of-way. Interior driveways must be at least 24 feet wide where used with 90-degree angle parking, at least 18 feet wide where used with 60-degree angle parking, at least 12 feet wide where used with 45-degree angle parking, and at least 12 feet wide where used with parallel parking. Where there is no parking, interior driveways must be at least 12 feet wide for one-way traffic movement and at least 24 feet wide for two-way traffic movement.
E.
Handicap parking requirements. Handicapped spaces shall be provided in accordance with the following scale:
EXPAND
Total Parking Requirements Handicapped
Spaces
Required
Up to 25 1
26—50 2
51—75 3
76—100 4
101—150 5
151—200 6
201—300 7
301—400 8
401—500 9
500+ 2 percent of total required
  F.
Joint parking facilities. Two or more adjacent uses of the same or different types may provide joint parking facilities as long as the number of off-street parking spaces are not less than the sum of the individual requirements for each use.
G.
Pavement markings and signs. Each off-street parking space must be clearly marked, and directional arrows or signs must be provided wherever necessary. Markers, directional arrows, and signs must be properly maintained so as to ensure their maximum efficiency.
Sec. 103. - Number of parking spaces required.
Off-street parking space must be provided and maintained as specified in the following schedule. For uses not specifically listed here, the parking requirements for the listed use most similar to the unlisted use in question, as determined by the zoning administrator, will apply. Parking requirements by use are as follows:
A.
Apartment or other multifamily dwelling: Two spaces for each dwelling unit.
B.
Auditorium, stadium, assembly hall, gymnasium, theater, community recreation center, or church: Of the following three standards, the one which requires the greatest number of parking spaces:
1.
One space per four fixed seats in largest assembly room or area; or
2.
One space for each 40 square feet of floor area available for the accommodation of moveable seats, or combination of fixed and moveable seats, in the largest assembly room; or
3.
One space per each 150 square feet of gross floor area.
C.
Automobile fueling station: Two spaces (in addition to service area) for each pump and grease rack, but not less than four spaces, and one space for each two employees during the period of greatest employment, but not less than four spaces.
D.
Automobile sales and repair, service station, carwash: Two spaces (in addition to service area) for each pump and grease rack, but not less than four spaces—plus—one space for each 500 square feet of gross floor area of the shop or carwash.
E.
Bowling alley: Four spaces per alley—plus—requirements for any other use associated with the establishment such as a restaurant, etc.
F.
Club or lodge: One space for each two employees, plus one space for each 200 square feet of gross floor area within the main assembly area—plus—additional spaces for other uses permitted within the premises.
G.
Combined uses: The total number of required parking spaces must be equal to the sum of the spaces required for each separate use established by this schedule.
H.
Commercial recreation area (indoor or outdoor) such as YMCA or similar use: Whichever of the following two standards is the greatest:
1.
One space for each 150 square feet of gross floor, building, or ground area; or
2.
One space for each four seats or facilities available for patron use.
I.
Dance school: One space for each employee plus one space per 150 square feet of gross floor area—plus—adequate area for safe and convenient loading and unloading of students.
J.
Dwelling—single-family or two-family: 1½ spaces for each bedroom unit. Residential driveways will satisfy this need.
K.
Fraternity, sorority, college dormitory: One space for each two residents plus one space for each two employees.
L.
Golf course: Two spaces for each hole and one space for each two employees—plus—requirements for any other use associated with the golf course.
M.
Hospital, personal care home, intermediate care home, nursing home: One space for each three beds plus one space for each two employees (nurses, attendants, etc.) plus one space for each staff or visiting doctor.
N.
Hotel: One space for each three guest rooms, suites, or units plus one space for each two employees.
O.
Kindergarten, nursery school: One space for each employee—plus—adequate area for safe and convenient loading and unloading of students.
P.
Manufacturing activity, industry, warehouse: Two spaces for each three employees on shift of greatest employment, plus one space for each vehicle used directly in the conduct of the business.
Q.
Motel: One space for each unit plus one space for each two employees—plus—requirements for any other use associated with the establishment such as a restaurant, etc.
R.
Office, professional building, or similar use: One space for each 300 square feet of gross floor area, plus one space for each two employees.
S.
Personal service establishment: One space for each 200 square feet of gross floor area—but not less than two spaces for each employee.
T.
Restaurant, or place dispensing food, drink, or refreshment: One space for each three seats plus one space for each two employees on shift of greatest employment.
U.
Retail store of any type not otherwise specified in this schedule: One space per two hundred square feet of gross floor area.
V.
School—elementary: One space for each teacher, plus one space for each two employees and administrative personnel, plus one space for each classroom—plus—adequate area for safe and convenient loading and unloading of students.
W.
School—high, trade, colleges, universities: One space for each two teachers, employees, administrative personnel, and student—plus—adequate area for safe and convenient loading and unloading of students, plus five spaces for each classroom.
X.
Shopping center: One space for every 200 square feet of gross floor area.
Y.
Swimming pool, public: One space for every 200 square feet of water surface—plus—requirements for any other use associated with the establishment such as a restaurant, etc.
Z.
Wholesale establishment: One space for each employee plus sufficient space, plus one space for each vehicle used directly in the conduct of the business.
AA.
Funeral Parlors: 20 per parlor.
Sec. 104. - Number of loading spaces required.
Manufacturing, industrial, wholesale, and retail operations must provide loading space as follows:
A.
Spaces appropriate to functions. Off-street loading spaces must be provided as appropriate to the functions and scope of operation or individual or groups of buildings and uses.
B.
Design of loading spaces. Off-street loading spaces must be designed and constructed so that all maneuvering to park vehicles for loading can take place entirely within the property lines of the premises. Loading spaces must be provided so as not to interfere with the free, normal movement of vehicles and pedestrians on public rights-of-way.
C.
Ingress and egress. Ingress and egress to off-street loading spaces must conform to curb cut requirements specified in this standard.
Sec. 105. - Curb cut requirements.
In any case in which provision for ingress and egress involves the lowering or cutting away of curbs, such a curb cut is subject to the following provisions:
A.
Only one combined entrance and exit is allowed for any parcel of property with a frontage on any one street of less than 50 feet. No more than two combined entrances and exits are allowed for any parcel of property with a frontage on any one street of between 50 feet and 200 feet. For parcels of property having frontage on any one street of more than 200 feet, additional entrances or exits are permitted only after the developer demonstrates to the satisfaction of the planning commission that more curb cuts are needed for safety reasons, and such additional curb cuts are approved by the planning commission.
B.
At street intersections, curb cuts must be located at least 25 feet from the intersections of the two curblines (or such lines extended) or at least 15 feet from the intersection of the two intersecting property lines (or such lines extended), whichever is less.
C.
The distance between any two curb cuts on the same side of the street and located on one property must be at least ten feet. That distance is measured between the points at which the two curb cuts begin to deviate from the established curbline of the abutting street (in other words, between the intersections of the curb return radii and the established curbline of the abutting street).
D.
The minimum setback from all property lines for any driveway is two feet.
E.
The maximum permitted width of any driveway at the right-of-way line of the abutting street is 35 feet.
F.
The maximum permitted width of any curb cut, including the points at which the curb cut begins to deviate from the established curbline of the abutting street at either end of the curb cut (in other words, including the curb returns) is 50 feet. However, the zoning administrator may approve a specified larger width for a truckstop, if he determines that a larger curb cut is needed for safety reasons. The sum of the two curb return radii for any one curb cut must not exceed 15 feet.
