Chapter 46 - OFFENSES AND MISCELLANEOUS PROVISIONS[1]
Footnotes:
--- (1) ---
Editor's note— Ord. of 2-22-2005, §§ 1, 2, adopted Feb. 22, 2005, amended chapter 46 in its entirety to read as herein set out. Former chapter 46, § 46-1, pertained to similar subject matter. For complete list of derivations, see Code Comparative Table.
Cross reference— Traffic and motor vehicles, ch. 74.
State Law reference— Criminal Code of Georgia, O.C.G.A. § 16-1-1 et seq.; limitation on home rule powers of municipal corporations with respect to duplication of state criminal offenses, O.C.G.A. § 36-35-6(a)(2).

ARTICLE I. - COUNTY PROPERTY OFFENSES

Sec. 46-1. - Damaging county signs; penalty.
(a)
It shall be unlawful to alter, deface, knock down, remove or have in one's possession any county road name sign, traffic control sign or device or any other public sign erected by and under the authority of the board of commissioners.
(b)
It shall be unlawful to have or possess any of the traffic and other signs enumerated in O.C.G.A. § 40-6-26.
(c)
Violators of this section shall be tried in the county magistrate court and, upon conviction, shall be punished as provided in section 1-11.
(Ord. of 2-22-2005(2), §§ 1, 2)
Sec. 46-2. - Trespass on public property
It shall be unlawful for any person, without permission granted by the board of commissioners, to occupy any county reserve, street, park, or any ground, lot or other realty owned by the county, or any portion thereof, except for the specific purposes for which the property is held by the county for public use and at those times designated for public use.
(Ord. of 2-22-2005(2), §§ 1, 2)
Sec. 46-3. - Trespass on county property by registered sex offenders.
No individual who is required to register pursuant to the provisions of O.C.G.A. § 42-1-12 shall come onto or remain on any property owned, rented or used by the county for public recreation where minors under the age of 18 are likely to be present. Violations of this section shall be punished as provided in section 1-11
(Ord. of 1-18-11(2))
Secs. 46-4—46-30. - Reserved.
ARTICLE II. - DISORDERLY CONDUCT

Sec. 46-31. - Definitions.
Incite a riot shall mean, but is not limited to, urging or instigating other persons to riot, but shall not be deemed to mean the mere oral or written (1) advocacy of ideas or (2) expression of belief, not involving advocacy of any act or acts of violence or assertion of the rightness of, or the right to commit, any such act or acts.
Public Place shall mean any place to which the general public has access and a right to resort for business, entertainment or other lawful purpose, but does not necessarily mean a place devoted solely to the uses of the public. It shall also include the front or immediate area of any store, shop, restaurant, tavern or other place of business and also public grounds, areas and parks.
Riot shall mean a public disturbance involving (1), an act or acts of violence by one or more persons who are part of an assemblage of three or more persons, which act or acts shall constitute a clear and present danger of, or shall result in, damage or injury to the property of any other person or to the person of any other individual or (2) a threat or threats of the commission of an act or acts of violence by one or more persons who are part of an assemblage of three or more persons having, individually or collectively, the ability of immediate execution of such threat or threats, where the performance of the threatened act or acts of violence would constitute a clear and present danger of, or would result in, damage or injury to the property of any person or to the person of any other individual.
(Ord. of 2-22-2005(2), §§ 1, 2)
Sec. 46-32. - Disorderly conduct prohibited.
A person shall be guilty of disorderly conduct if, with the purpose of causing public danger, alarm, disorder, nuisance, or if his conduct is likely to cause public danger, alarm, disorder or nuisance, or if he willfully does any of the following acts in a public place:
(1)
Commits an act in a violent and tumultuous manner toward another whereby that other is placed in danger of his life, limb or health;
(2)
Commits an act in a violent and tumultuous manner toward another whereby the property of any person is placed in danger of being destroyed or damaged;
(3)
Causes, provokes or engages in any fight, brawl, or riotous conduct so as to endanger the life, limb, health or property of another;
(4)
Interferes with another's pursuit of lawful occupation by acts of violence;
(5)
Obstructs, either singly or together with other persons, the flow of vehicular or pedestrian traffic and refuses to clear such public way when ordered to do so by the sheriff or his deputies or other lawful authority known to be such;
(6)
Is in a public place under the influence of an intoxicating liquor or drug in such condition as to be unable to exercise care for his own safety or the safety of others;
(7)
Resists or obstructs the performance of duties by sheriff or his deputies or any other authorized official of the county, when known to be such an official;
(8)
Incites, attempts to incite, or is involved in attempting to incite a riot;
(9)
Addresses abusive language or threats to any member of the sheriff or his deputies, any other authorized official of the county who is engaged in the lawful performances of his duties, or any other person when such words have a tendency to cause acts of violence. Words merely causing displeasure, annoyance or resentment are not prohibited;
(10)
Damages, befouls or disturbs public property or the property of another so as to create hazardous, unhealthy or physically offensive conditions;
(11)
Makes or causes to be made any loud, boisterous and unreasonable noise or disturbance to the annoyance of any other persons nearby, or near to any public highway, road, street, lane, alley, park, square or common, whereby the public peace is broken or disturbed, or the traveling public is annoyed;
(12)
Fails to obey a lawful order to disperse by a police officer, when known to be such an official, where one or more persons are committing acts of disorderly conduct in the immediate vicinity, and the public health and safety is imminently threatened;
(13)
Uses of abusive or obscene language or makes an obscene gesture.
(Ord. of 2-22-2005(2), §§ 1, 2)
Sec. 46-33. - Exemptions.
This chapter shall not be construed to suppress the right of lawful assembly, picketing, public speaking or other lawful means of expressing public opinion not in contravention of other laws.
(Ord. of 2-22-2005(2), §§ 1, 2)
Sec. 46-34. - Penalties.
Any person who violates any of the provisions of this chapter shall be penalized as provided by the provisions of section 1-11 herein.
(Ord. of 2-22-2005(2), §§ 1, 2)
Secs. 46-35-46-40. - Reserved.
ARTICLE III. - LOITERING

Sec. 46-41 - Definitions, as used in this chapter.
Loitering shall mean remaining idle in essentially one location and shall include the concept of spending time idly; to be dilatory; to linger; to stay; to saunter; to delay; to stand around and shall also include the colloquial expression "hanging around."
Public place shall mean any place to which the general public has access and a right to resort for business, entertainment or other lawful purpose, but does not necessarily mean a place devoted solely to the uses of the public. It shall also include the front or immediate area of any store, shop, restaurant, tavern or other place of business and also public grounds, areas or parks.
(Ord. of 2-22-2005(2), §§ 1, 2)
Sec. 46-42 - Loitering—Police order to disperse—Penalty.
(a)
It shall be unlawful for any person to loiter, loaf, wander, stand or remain idle either alone and/or consort with others in a public place in such manner so as to:
(1)
Obstruct any public street, public highway, public sidewalk or any other public place or building by hindering or impeding or tending to hinder or impede the free and uninterrupted passage of vehicles, traffic or pedestrians.
(2)
Commit in or upon any public street, public highway, public sidewalk or any other public place or building any act or thing which is an obstruction or interference to the free and uninterrupted use of property or with any business lawfully conducted by anyone in or upon or facing or fronting on any such public street, public highway, public sidewalk or any other public place or building, all of which prevents the free and uninterrupted ingress, egress and regress, therein, thereon and thereto.
(3)
When any person causes or commits any of the conditions enumerated in subsection (a) herein, a police officer or any law enforcement official shall order that person to stop causing or committing such conditions and to move on or disperse. Any person who fails or refuses to obey such orders shall be guilty of a violation of the chapter.
(b)
Any person who violates any of the provisions of this chapter shall be punished as provided by the provisions of section 1-11 herein.
(Ord. of 2-22-2005(2), §§ 1, 2)
