Chapter 30 - FIRE PREVENTION AND PROTECTION[1]

Footnotes:
--- (1) ---
Cross reference— Buildings and building regulations, ch. 14; civil emergencies, ch. 22.
State Law reference— Impersonating a public officer or employee, O.C.G.A. § 16-10-23; obstruction or hindering of firefighters, O.C.G.A. § 16-10-24.1; obstruction or hindering of firefighters, O.C.G.A. § 16-10-24.1; false fire alarms, O.C.G.A. § 16-10-27; fireworks, O.C.G.A. § 25-10-1 et seq.; Georgia Fire Sprinkler Act, O.C.G.A. § 25-11-1 et seq.; regulation of fire and other hazards to persons and property generally, O.C.G.A. § 25-2-1 et seq.; smoke detector requirements, O.C.G.A. § 25-2-40; local fire departments generally, O.C.G.A. § 25-3-1 et seq.; local fire safety standards authorized, O.C.G.A. § 25-3-4; Georgia Firefighter Standards and Training Act, O.C.G.A. § 25-4-1 et seq.; mutual aid resource pacts, O.C.G.A. § 25-6-1 et seq.; Georgia Fire Academy Act, O.C.G.A. § 25-7-1 et seq.; following fire apparatus or emergency vehicle, O.C.G.A. § 40-6-247; crossing fire hose, O.C.G.A. § 40-6-248; Uniform Act for the Application of Building and Fire Related Codes to Existing Buildings, O.C.G.A. § 8-2-200 et seq.; statewide application of Standard Fire Prevention Code, O.C.G.A. § 8-2-25(a); fire escapes in buildings, O.C.G.A. § 8-2-50 et seq.; authority to provide police and fire protection, Ga. Const. art. IX, § II, ¶ III(a)(1).

Sec. 30-1. - Purpose and intent of chapter.
(a)
The board of commissioners of Screven County, Georgia ("BOC") finds that the best interests of the citizens of the county will be served by the availability of adequate fire protection to the citizens of the unincorporated areas of the county and those cities or municipalities which chose to be served by the county's fire department and to have the cost of that department be borne by the citizens who use the service. One purpose of this chapter is the creation of a county fire department by incorporating the existing volunteer fire units within the county, other than those funded and supported by the City of Newington and City of Sylvania, as county firefighting units.
Further, the BOC has determined that the most effective and appropriate means of providing adequate fire protection for the citizens living in the unincorporated areas of Screven County ("county") and those living within incorporated areas which wish to be served by the county's fire department ("department"), (which department was established as provided in section 30-3 of this Code in 1999), is to establish a fire protection special service district ("district") for that purpose pursuant to the provisions of the Georgia Constitution, article IX, section II, paragraph III ("Supplemental Powers Clause") and article IX, section II, paragraph IV ("Special Districts Clause").
(b)
Further, pursuant to those provisions set out in subsection (a) above, the BOC finds it to be in the best interest of the citizens of the county to fund the operation of the county's fire department by the implementation of a "special services tax levy" and such other fees and assessments as allowed by law sufficient to cover the cost of maintaining, operating and equipping the department, including the cost of capital items such as the acquisition of real property for fire stations, fire engines and other equipment and machinery. The BOC has determined that a special fund is to be created within the county's accounting system and all funds collected for the purpose of supporting the department, from the citizens of the unincorporated area of the county and from those cities or municipalities which enter into intergovernmental agreements to be served by the department (as defined below), be allocated to that fund and all such funds be utilized only for the services provided by the department within the district. No portion of the funds collected as part of the general ad valorem tax imposed upon all citizens of the county shall be used to support the department.
(Ord. No. 99-05, § 2, 5-25-1999; Ord. of 1-9-2018, § 2)
Sec. 30-2. - Definitions.
The following words, terms and phrases, when used in this chapter, shall have the meanings ascribed to them in this section, except where the context clearly indicates a different meaning:
Business means a physical structure owned, leased, rented or otherwise occupied by any person for the purpose of manufacturing, creating, packaging, enhancing, providing or delivering goods or services, whether or not for profit, including, but not limited to, commercial, professional, industrial, trade, or service establishments.
Department means the county fire department as established in section 30-3 of this Code.
Fire fighting service means the transportation of fire department equipment to a parcel and the actions of the department's personnel in responding to a call, extinguishing a fire, or both.
Fire protection special service district means the unincorporated area of the county and those cities or municipalities within the county which choose to be part of the fire protection special service district (which may also be termed, herein, "district") by an appropriate intergovernmental agreement in which the municipality also agrees to abide by the terms of chapter 30 of this Code.
Fire protection special service district assessment means the millage rate or fee established annually by the BOC to fund solely the operation of the Department and may be referred to in this chapter as "assessment" or "millage."
Manufactured home, mobile home or similar terms See section 42-2 of this Code. Such relocatable structures may be referred to herein as a "relocatable structure."
Parcel means a lot or tract of land situated in the county located in the unincorporated area of the county or within a municipality which chooses to be included in the fire protection special service district.
Person means individuals, corporations, partnerships, proprietorship, firm, enterprise, franchise, association, organization, trust, limited liability companies, limited liability partnerships, or other legal entity.
Residence means a physical structure designed for use by a person as a temporary or permanent residence, including, but not limited to, site-built homes, manufactured homes, mobile homes, and any other structure designed or used for habitation.
(Ord. No. 99-05, § 3, 5-25-1999; Ord. of 1-9-2018, § 3)
Cross reference— Definitions generally, § 1-2.
Sec. 30-3. - Creation of the county fire department.
(a)
The existing volunteer fire units located at Hiltonia, Rocky Ford, Jenk Hill and Cooperville are hereby incorporated into and made units of the county fire department. Each such unit shall be operated by not less than three firefighters with basic training, one of whom shall be certified by the state firefighters standards and training council or its successor.
(b)
The board of commissioners shall appoint a county fire chief who shall organize and supervise the operation of the county fire department. The fire chief shall answer directly to the county manager.
(c)
The county shall support the operation of the county fire department in such amounts as shall be budgeted from time to time by the board of commissioners. The fire chief with the assistance of the county manager shall compile and present proposed operations and capital budgets each fiscal year.
(Ord. No. 99-05, § 4, 5-25-1999)
Sec. 30-4. - Establishment of a fire protection special service district.
There is hereby created a fire protection special service district as defined in section 30-2.
(Ord. No. 1-9-2018, § 4)
Editor's note— Section 4 of an ordinance adopted January 9, 2018 repealed former § 30-4, and enacted a new § 30-4. Former § 30-4 pertained to the establishment of fire protection districts and derived from Ord. No. 99-05, adopted May 25, 1999.
Sec. 30-5. - Fire protection special service assessment or millage.
modified
(a)
Pursuant to the Supplemental Powers and Special Districts clauses of the Georgia Constitution, there is hereby established and levied an annual fire protection special service district assessment as defined in section 30-2. The assessment shall be levied against all parcels within the fire protection special service district provided, however, the assessment may be greater for those parcels upon which a business, residence or relocatable structure is located. If more than one business, residence or relocatable structure is located on one taxable parcel, the assessment shall be levied against each such business, residence or relocatable structure.
(b)
Notwithstanding anything contained herein to the contrary, when a manufactured home, mobile home or similar relocatable structure (as defined herein) is situated on a taxable parcel, which is not owned by the owner of the parcel, the assessment shall be assessed against the owner of the relocatable structure and no permit required pursuant to county or state law shall be issued for such relocatable structure for which such permit is sought until the millage due thereon has been paid in full.
(c)
If a business, residence or relocatable structure is not located on a taxable parcel on January 1 of any calendar year, beginning on January 1, 2018, or if construction of a building or dwelling is not completed and the business or dwelling occupied on January 1 of any calendar year, commencing on January 1, 2018, then the owner of the parcel on which the business, dwelling or relocatable structure is located or, in the case of relocatable structures owned by someone other than the owner of the parcel upon which it is situated, shall pay a percentage of the assessment determined by dividing the number of months or parts of a month during which the business, dwelling or structure is located on the parcel by 12.
(d)
To the extent allowed by state law, the assessment established in this chapter shall be included on the tax statements for ad valorem taxes created by the tax commissioner of the county and delinquent payments shall be charged such fees and interest and collected in the same manner as other delinquent ad valorem taxes.
(e)
All revenues derived from payment of the assessment established in this chapter shall be assigned to a special fund created within the county's accounting system and all such funds collected from the citizens of the unincorporated area of the county and from those cities or municipalities which enter into intergovernmental agreements to be served by the county allocated to that fund shall be utilized only for the services provided by the department within the district, including the maintaining, operating and equipping the department, the acquisition of land and the construction of buildings to be used solely to house the equipment and personnel of the department, and similar such uses. If, at the end of any fiscal year, there remain any funds unexpended in the account so established, the same shall not lapse or revert to the general funds of the county, but shall be maintained exclusively for the purposes specified in this chapter.
(f)
No part of the revenues derived from the assessment established in this chapter shall be used for any purpose other than those specified in this chapter and no part of the ad valorem revenues derived by the county from property located within municipalities not electing to be part of the district shall be used for such purposes. It is the intent of the county board of commissioners that neither property located within the limits of municipalities not electing to be included within the district nor the owners thereof be required to support any fire fighting service performed outside the limits of such municipalities.
(Ord. No. 1-9-2018, § 5; Ord. of 6-8-2021(1) , § 2)
Editor's note— Section 5 of an ordinance adopted January 9, 2018 repealed former § 30-5, and enacted a new § 30-5. Former § 30-5 pertained to fire service assessment and derived from Ord. No. 99-05, adopted May 25, 1999 and an ordinance adopted October 2, 2003.
