Chapter 18 - BUSINESSES[1]
Footnotes:
--- (1) ---
Cross reference— Alcoholic beverages, ch. 6; taxation, ch. 70; hotel-motel excise tax, § 70-61 et seq.; financial institutions business license tax, § 70-91 et seq.; HC - highway commercial, app. A, § 1101 et seq.; GC - general commercial, app. A, § 1201 et seq.; NC - neighborhood commercial, app. A, § 1301 et seq.; LI - light industrial, app. A, § 1401 et seq.; HI - heavy industrial, app. A, § 1501 et seq.

ARTICLE I. - IN GENERAL

Secs. 18-1—18-30. - Reserved.
ARTICLE II. - OCCUPATION TAXES AND REGULATORY FEES[2]

Footnotes:
--- (2) ---
State Law reference— Electrical contractors, plumbers, conditioned air contractors, low-voltage contractors, and utility contractors, O.C.G.A. § 43-14-1 et seq.; business and occupation taxes, O.C.G.A. § 48-13-1 et seq.; registration of nonresident contractors with state, O.C.G.A. § 48-13-31; .

Sec. 18-31. - Occupation tax required; occupation tax required for business dealings in the county.
Each person engaged in any business, trade, profession, or occupation in the county, whether with a location in the county or in the case of an out-of-state business with no location in the state exerting substantial efforts within the state pursuant to O.C.G.A. § 48-13-7, shall pay an occupation tax for such business, trade, profession, or occupation; which tax and any applicable registration shall be displayed in a conspicuous place in the place of business, if the taxpayer has a permanent business location in the county. If the taxpayer has no permanent business location in the county, such business tax registration shall be shown to the sheriff or this officer's deputies upon request.
(Ord. No. 96-02, § 1, 12-18-1995)
Sec. 18-32. - Definitions.
The following words, terms and phrases, when used in this article, shall have the meanings ascribed to them in this section, except where the context clearly indicates a different meaning:
Employee means an individual whose work is performed under the direction and supervision of the employer and whose employer withholds FICA, federal income tax, or state income tax from such individual's compensation, or whose employer issues to such individual for purposes of documenting compensation a form IRS W-2, but not a form IRS 1099.
Full-time employee means an employee who works 40 hours or more weekly, and, in addition, the average weekly hours of employees who work less than 40 hours weekly shall be added, and such sums shall be divided by 40 to produce full-time position equivalents, and each full-time position equivalent shall also be considered a full-time employee for purposes of this article. Fractional equivalents shall be rounded down to the nearest whole.
Location and office mean any structure or vehicle where a business, profession, or occupation is conducted, but shall not include a temporary or construction work site which serves a single customer or project, or a vehicle used for sales or delivery by a business or practitioner of a profession or occupation which has a location or office.
Number of employees means:
(1)
For an occupation, profession, trade, business or calling operating and having a location within the county during the calendar year prior to the calendar year in which the tax is being levied, the number of full-time employees employed on August 31 during the calendar year prior to the calendar year in which the tax is being levied. For an occupation, profession, trade, business or calling that has no full-time employees on August 31 during the calendar year prior to the year in which the tax is being levied, such occupation, profession, business or calling shall fall under subsection (2) of this definition.
(2)
For an occupation, profession, trade, business or calling not operating and having a business location within the county during the calendar year prior to the calendar year in which the tax is being levied, the number of full-time employees employed during the first three months of operation at a location within the county.
Occupation tax means a tax levied on persons, partnerships, corporations, or other entities for engaging in an occupation, profession, or business and enacted by a local government as a revenue-raising ordinance or resolution.
Occupation tax certificate means a document issued by the county acknowledging payment of the occupation tax and administrative fee.
Person means sole proprietors, corporations, partnerships, nonprofits, or any other form of business organization, but specifically excludes charitable nonprofit organizations which utilize 75 percent of their proceeds for charitable purposes.
Practitioners of professions and occupations means those individuals listed in O.C.G.A. § 48-13-9(c)(1)—(18), but does not include a practitioner who is an employee of a business if such business pays an occupation tax.
(Ord. No. 96-02, § 2, 12-18-1995)
Cross reference— Definitions generally, § 1-2.
Sec. 18-33. - Occupation tax levied; restrictions.
(a)
An occupation tax shall be levied upon those businesses and practitioners of professions and occupations with one or more locations or offices in the county and/or upon the applicable out-of-state businesses with no location or office in Georgia pursuant to O.C.G.A. § 48-13-7, based upon the following criteria: The number of employees of the business or practitioner at each business location within the county.
(b)
The tax rate determined by the number of employees for each business, trade, profession, or occupation is as follows:
EXPAND
Employees Tax Liability
0—3 $ 50.00
4—7 100.00
8—12 150.00
13—18 200.00
19—25 250.00
26 and over $300.00
  (c)
No business or practitioner shall be required to pay more than one occupation tax for each of its locations. No occupation tax shall be required from those real estate brokers, real estate agents, or real estate companies whose offices are located outside the jurisdiction and who sell property inside the jurisdiction.
(Ord. No. 96-02, § 3, 12-18-1995)
Sec. 18-34. - Paying occupation tax of business with no location in the state.
Registration and assessment of an occupation tax is hereby imposed on those businesses and practitioners of professions with no location or office in the state if the business's largest dollar volume of business in the state is in the county and the business or practitioner:
(1)
Has one or more employees or agents who exert substantial efforts within the jurisdiction of the county for the purpose of soliciting business or serving customers or clients; or
(2)
Owns personal or real property which generates income and which is located within the jurisdiction of the county.
(Ord. No. 96-02, § 4, 12-18-1995)
Sec. 18-35. - Registration and occupation tax certificate.
Each business shall provide information on a registration form provided by the county, which shall be in the form of an affidavit, identifying the line of business that the business conducts, the number of locations of the business, and the number of employees at each location. No business shall conduct any line of business without first having that line of business, the number of locations of the business, and the number of employees at each location registered with the county manager and such information being noted by the county manager upon the business registration form. Unless such business would be in violation of any state, federal or local law, the county manager shall issue an occupation tax certificate, which shall be displayed by the business in a conspicuous location. The issuance by the county manager of an occupation tax certificate shall not be determinative for any purpose that such business is in compliance with federal, state and local law, and such registration is subject to suspension and revocation as provided for elsewhere in this article.
(Ord. No. 96-02, § 5, 12-18-1995)
Sec. 18-36. - Number of businesses considered to be operating in the county.
Where a person conducts business at more than one fixed location, each location or place shall be considered a separate business for the purpose of occupation tax.
(Ord. No. 96-02, § 6, 12-18-1995)
Sec. 18-37. - Professionals as classified in O.C.G.A. § 48-13-9(c)(1)—(18).
Practitioners of professions or practicing groups as described in O.C.G.A. § 48-13-9(c)(1)—(18) shall elect as their entire occupation tax one of the following:
(1)
The occupation tax based on the number of employees.
(2)
A fee of $200.00 per practitioner who is licensed to provide the service.
This election is to be made on an annual basis and must be made by January 10 of each year. If no such election is made, the occupation tax shall be based on the number of employees. Payment of the tax shall constitute election.
(Ord. No. 96-02, § 7, 12-18-1995; Ord. No. 2002-07, § 3, 11-12-2002)
Sec. 18-38. - Practitioners exclusively practicing for a government.
Any practitioner whose office is maintained by and who is employed in practice exclusively by the United States, the state, a municipality or county of the state, instrumentalities of the United States, the state, or a municipality or county of the state shall not be required to obtain a license or pay an occupation tax for that practice.
(Ord. No. 96-02, § 8, 12-18-1995)
Sec. 18-39. - Purpose and scope of tax.
The occupation tax levied in this article is for revenue purposes only and is not for regulatory purposes. The occupation tax only applies to those businesses and occupations which are covered by the provisions of O.C.G.A. §§ 48-13-5—48-13-28. All other applicable businesses and occupations may be taxed by the local government pursuant to the pertinent general and/or local law and ordinance.
(Ord. No. 96-02, § 9, 12-18-1995)
Sec. 18-40. - When tax due and payable; effect of transacting business when tax delinquent.
(a)
Each such occupation tax shall be for the calendar year 1996 and succeeding calendar years thereafter unless otherwise specifically provided. The occupation tax shall be payable on January 1 of each year and shall, if not paid by January 10, be subject to a ten percent penalty for delinquency. Any new profession, trade, business or calling begun in the county in 1996 or succeeding years thereafter shall owe the occupation tax immediately upon commencing business and shall be delinquent if not paid within 15 days after commencing business. Such new business shall estimate the number of full-time employees to be used in its business at its county location during its first three months of operation, and the occupation tax shall be paid on that basis prior to the commencement of business. The new business shall file an additional registration within 30 calendar days of its initial three months of operation with the county manager indicating the actual number of full-time employees during its first three months of operation. At that time, the correct tax shall be calculated, and any additional tax or refund shall be due; provided, however, for any new profession, trade, business or calling which commences business on or after July 1 in any year, the occupation tax due for the remaining portion of the year shall be 50 percent of the tax imposed for the entire year.
(b)
In the event of a delinquency in payment of the occupation tax at the times provided for in this section, a penalty of ten percent of the amount of tax owing is hereby assessed. The occupation tax and penalties shall be collected in the same manner as provided by law for tax executions.
(Ord. No. 96-02, § 10, 12-18-1995; Ord. No. 2002-07, § 4, 11-12-2002)
Sec. 18-41. - Exemption on grounds that business is operated for charitable purpose.
No business on which a business registration or occupation tax is levied by this article shall be exempt from such registration or tax on the grounds that such business is operated for a charitable purpose, unless 75 percent or more of the entire proceeds from such business are devoted to such purpose.
(Ord. No. 96-02, § 11, 12-18-1995)
Sec. 18-42. - Evidence of state registration required, if applicable; state registration to be displayed.
(a)
Each person who is licensed by the secretary of state pursuant to O.C.G.A. tit. 43 (O.C.G.A. § 43-1-1 et seq.) shall provide evidence of proper and current state licensure before the county registration may be issued.
(b)
Each person who is licensed by the state shall post the state license in a conspicuous place in the licensee's place of business and shall keep the license there at all times while the license remains valid.
(Ord. No. 96-02, § 12, 12-18-1995)
Sec. 18-43. - Evidence of qualification required, if applicable.
Any business required to obtain health permits, bonds, certificates of qualification, certificates of competency, or any other regulatory matter shall first, before the issuance of a county business registration, show evidence that such requirements have been met.
(Ord. No. 96-02, § 13, 12-18-1995)
Sec. 18-44. - Liability of officers and agents; registration required; failure to obtain.
All persons subject to the occupation tax levy pursuant to this article shall be required to obtain the necessary registration for such business as described in this article, and in default thereof the officer or agent soliciting for or representing such persons shall be subject to the same penalty as other persons who fail to obtain a registration. Every person commencing business in the county after January 1 of each year shall likewise obtain the registration provided for in this section before commencing the business; and any person transacting or offering to transact, in the county, any of the kinds of business, trade, profession, or occupation without first having so obtained such registration shall be subject to penalties provided in section 18-45.
(Ord. No. 96-02, § 14, 12-18-1995)
Sec. 18-45. - Penalties for doing business without obtaining annual occupation tax certificate.
(a)
Each such occupation tax certificate shall be for the calendar year in which the occupation tax certificate was obtained unless otherwise specifically provided. There is hereby imposed a penalty upon each business which fails to apply for and obtain an appropriate occupation tax certificate and pay all tax and fees as provided in this article before April 1 of each year, and on April 1 each year hereafter. Every person commencing business in the county after January 1 of each year shall obtain the occupation tax certificate required before commencing such business. Any person transacting or offering to transact, in the county any business, trade, profession, or occupation without first having obtained such occupation tax certificate shall be subject to the penalties provided in section 18-46. Such penalties shall be in addition to all other penalties, civil and criminal, provided in this article; and may be collected by the remedies provided in this article for collection of the occupation tax, and shall have the same lien and priority as the occupation tax to which the penalty is applied.
(b)
The occupation tax certificate provided for in this article shall be issued by the county manager, and if any person whose duty it is to obtain an occupation tax certificate shall, after such occupation tax becomes delinquent, transact or offer to transact, in the county, any of the kinds of business, trade, profession, or occupation without having first obtained such occupation tax certificate, shall be subject to the penalties provided in this article.
(Ord. No. 96-02, § 15, 12-18-1995)
Sec. 18-46. - Penalty for violation of article.
Any person violating any provisions of this article shall, upon conviction before a court of competent jurisdiction, be punished as provided in section 1-11.
(Ord. No. 96-02, § 16, 12-18-1995)
Sec. 18-47. - Sheriff; subpoena and arrest powers.
The sheriff and his duly designated officer and inspectors or their successors shall be classified as deputy marshal-business inspectors with full subpoena and arrest powers in conjunction with any violation pertaining to the Business Tax Ordinance for 1996 and succeeding years.
(Ord. No. 96-02, § 17, 12-18-1995)
Sec. 18-48. - Businesses not covered by this article.
The following businesses are not covered by the provisions of this article but may be assessed an occupation tax or other type of tax pursuant to the provisions of other general laws of the state or by local law:
(1)
Those businesses regulated by the state public service commission.
(2)
Those electrical service businesses organized under O.C.G.A. tit. 46, ch. 3 (O.C.G.A. § 46-3-1 et seq.).
(3)
Any farm operation for the production from or on the land of agricultural products, but not including agribusiness.
(4)
Cooperative marketing associations governed by O.C.G.A. § 2-10-105.
(5)
Insurance companies governed by O.C.G.A. § 33-8-8 et seq.
(6)
Motor common carriers governed by O.C.G.A. § 46-7-15.
(7)
Those businesses governed by O.C.G.A. § 48-5-355. (Businesses that purchase carload lots of guano, meats, meal, flour, bran, cottonseed, or cottonseed meal and hulls.)
(8)
Agricultural products and livestock raised in the state governed by O.C.G.A. § 48-5-356.
(9)
Depository financial institutions governed by O.C.G.A. § 48-6-93.
(10)
Facilities operated by a charitable trust governed by O.C.G.A. § 48-13-55.
(Ord. No. 96-02, § 18, 12-18-1995)
Sec. 18-49. - Inspections.
The county manager, through his officers, agents, employees or representatives, may inspect the books and records of any business subject to the occupation tax, as well as the business premises of any such business, to ensure compliance with this article. Failure to submit to an inspection during regular business hours, or to provide access to the books and records of the business within 48 hours of being requested, shall be grounds for revocation or suspension of the tax registration. Adequate records shall be kept in the county, for examination by the county manager at that officer's discretion. If, after examination of the books or records, it is determined that a deficiency has occurred as a result of underreporting, a penalty of 1.5 percent per month of the deficiency for each month that the deficiency has existed shall be assessed.
(Ord. No. 96-02, § 19, 12-18-1995)
Sec. 18-50. - Lien taken for delinquent occupation tax.
In addition to the other remedies provided in this article for the collection of the occupation tax levied by this article, the county manager, upon any tax or installment of such tax becoming delinquent and remaining unpaid, shall issue execution for the correct amount of such tax against the persons, partnership, or corporation liable for such tax, which such execution shall bear interest at the rate of 12 percent per annum from the date when such tax or installment becomes delinquent, and the lien shall cover the property of the person, partnership, or corporation liable for such tax, all as provided by law. The lien of such occupation tax shall become fixed on and date from the time when such tax or any installment thereof becomes delinquent. The execution shall be levied by the sheriff of the county upon the property of defendant located in such jurisdiction, and sufficient property shall be advertised and sold to pay the amount of such execution, with interest and costs. All other proceedings in relation thereto shall be had as is provided by ordinances and the laws of the state, and the defendant in such execution shall have rights of defense, by affidavit of illegality and otherwise, which are provided by the applicable laws in regard to tax executions. When a nulla bona entry has been entered by proper authority upon an execution issued by the county manager against any person defaulting on the occupation tax, the person against whom the entry was made shall not be allowed or entitled to have or collect any fees or charges whatsoever for services rendered after the entry of the nulla bona. If, at any time after the entry of nulla bona has been made, the person against whom the execution issues pays the tax in full, together with all interest and costs accrued on the tax, the person may collect any fees and charges due him as though he had never defaulted in the payment of the taxes.
(Ord. No. 96-02, § 20, 12-18-1995)
Sec. 18-51. - Suspension; revocation.
(a)
All occupation tax certificates issued by the county manager under the provisions of this article shall be subject to suspension by the county manager and suspension or revocation by the board of commissioners upon the following terms and in the following manner: Upon information being furnished by any person that the holder of any occupation tax certificate issued under the provisions of this article has, in connection with the business, trade, profession or vocation for which this occupation tax certificate was issued, committed acts or is guilty of conduct contrary to the laws of the United States, the state, the county, or is guilty of conduct contrary to the public health, morals, peace or welfare of the citizens of the county, it shall be the duty of the county manager to issue or cause to be issued a written notice, directed to the holder of the license, requiring the license holder to appear before the board of commissioners and show cause why the license should not be suspended or revoked. The notice shall disclose the charges against the holder of the registration and shall state the time, date and place of hearing, which hearing shall not be held less than five days nor more than 15 days from the date of receipt of the notice by the registration holder. If, upon final hearing, the board of commissioners shall, in accordance with the opinion it entertains as to the evidence and testimony submitted, believe that the registration holder is guilty of the charges made, it shall be board's duty to suspend or revoke the license of the person to whom it was issued or by whom it was held.
(b)
The county manager may, if he shall deem it necessary for the protection or welfare of the people of the county, suspend the occupation tax certificate of any person against whom charges have been made, pending final hearing on the issue of whether or not the occupation tax certificate of this person should be further suspended or revoked. Prior to any such suspension, the county manager shall hold an informal hearing with the holder of the occupation tax certificate to hear such holder's response to the charges and the proposed suspension. The county manager shall then make the decision regarding suspension pending final hearing. In the event of either suspension or revocation, such person shall immediately cease to conduct the business, trade, profession or occupation in the county, for which the occupation tax certificate was issued, or suffer the penalties set forth in this article.
(Ord. No. 96-02, § 21, 12-18-1995)
Sec. 18-52. - Amendment or repeal of article provisions.
This article shall be subject to amendment or repeal, in whole or in part, at any time, and no such amendment or repeal shall be construed to deny the right of the board of commissioners to assess and collect any of the taxes or other charges prescribed. Such amendment may increase or lower the amounts and tax rates of any occupation and may change the classification thereof. The payment of any occupation tax provided for shall not be construed as prohibiting the levy or collection by the jurisdiction of additional occupation taxes upon the same person, property, or business.
(Ord. No. 96-02, § 22, 12-18-1995)
Sec. 18-53. - Applications of article provisions to prior ordinance.
This article does not repeal or affect the force of any part of any ordinance heretofore passed where taxes levied under such prior ordinance have not been paid in full. So much and such parts of ordinances heretofore and hereafter passed as provided for the issuing and enforcing of execution for any tax or assessment required by such ordinances, or that imposed fines or penalties for the nonpayment of such tax, or for failure to pay regulatory fees provided for in such ordinances, or failure to comply with any other provisions of this article, shall continue and remain in force until such tax, regulatory fee, or assessment shall be fully paid.
(Ord. No. 96-02, § 23, 12-18-1995)
Sec. 18-54. - Enforcement of article provisions.
It is hereby made the duty of the county manager, the sheriff or the county's code enforcement officers to see that the provisions of this article relating to occupation taxes are observed; and to summon all violators of such provisions to appear before the court.
(Ord. No. 96-02, § 24, 12-18-1995)
Sec. 18-55. - Article provisions to remain in full force and effect until changed by board of commissioners.
This article shall remain in full force and effect until changed by amendment adopted by the board of commissioners. All provisions hereto relating to any form of tax levied in this article shall remain in full force and effect until such taxes have been paid in full.
(Ord. No. 96-02, § 25, 12-18-1995)
Sec. 18-56. - Option to establish exemption or reduction in occupation tax.
The board of commissioners may by subsequent ordinance or resolution provide for an exemption or reduction in occupation tax to one or more types of businesses or practitioners of occupations or professions as part of a plan for economic development or attracting or encouraging selected types of businesses or practitioners of selected occupations or professions. Such exemptions or reductions in occupation tax shall not be arbitrary or capricious, and the reasons shall be set forth in the minutes of the board, or in any such subsequent resolution or ordinance.
(Ord. No. 96-02, § 27, 12-18-1995)
Sec. 18-57. - Conflicts between specific and general article provisions.
Where there is an apparent conflict in this article between specific and general provisions, it is the intention of this article that the specific shall control.
(Ord. No. 96-02, § 28, 12-18-1995)
Secs. 18-58—18-90. - Reserved.
ARTICLE III. - AMBULANCE SERVICES[3]
Footnotes:
--- (3) ---
State Law reference— Emergency medical services, O.C.G.A. § 31-11-1 et seq.; standards for ambulances, O.C.G.A. § 31-11-34; restrictions on operation, installation, maintenance, etc., of electronic security systems by local governments, O.C.G.A. § 36-60-12; emergency vehicle equipment, O.C.G.A. § 40-8-90 et seq.; Georgia Emergency Telephone Number 911 Service Act of 1977, O.C.G.A. § 46-5-120 et seq.; authority to provide ambulance and emergency rescue services, Ga. Const. art. IX, § II, ¶ III(a)(3).

DIVISION 1. - GENERALLY

Sec. 18-91. - Definitions.
(a)
Definitions contained in O.C.G.A. § 31-11-2 and in the Rules and Regulations for Ambulance Services in Ga. Admin. Code ch. 290-5-30 are hereby incorporated by reference; provided, however, that terms defined therein which are not used in this article shall be deemed to be inoperative.
(b)
The following words, terms and phrases, when used in this article, shall have the meanings ascribed to them in this section, except where the context clearly indicates a different meaning:
County license means an ambulance service license issued by the county that signifies that the licensee and its facilities and operations comply with this article.
County license officer means the chairman of the board of commissioners or his designee.
(Ord. No. 96-01, § 1(102), 10-10-1995)
Cross reference— Definitions generally, § 1-2.
Sec. 18-92. - Supervision and administration.
The board of commissioners shall specify from time to time the division or agency of the county which shall have supervisory and enforcement authority with respect to the provisions of this article. Whenever there is any requirement for the county to take any action or receive any action, the designated division or agency shall act on behalf of the county.
(Ord. No. 96-01, § 1(103), 10-10-1995)
Cross reference— Administration, ch. 2.
Sec. 18-93. - Indemnification.
Application and issuance of an occupation license for ambulance services shall constitute a covenant that any person owning or operating an ambulance service within the county shall indemnify and hold harmless the county and any resident of the county for any loss or damage resulting from the operations of the ambulance service.
(Ord. No. 96-01, § 1(302), 10-10-1995)
Sec. 18-94. - Penalty for violation of article.
Any person convicted of violating the provisions of this article shall be punished as provided in section 1-11.
(Ord. No. 96-01, § 1(303), 10-10-1995)
Secs. 18-95—18-120. - Reserved.
DIVISION 2. - MANAGEMENT AND REGULATIONS

Sec. 18-121. - Affected services.
(a)
This article shall apply to any ambulance service, except those listed in this section, which is proposed by any person to be located within the county or whose services are offered to county residents.
(b)
Exempt emergency medical services are an ambulance service operated by an agency of the United States government; a vehicle operated by a person who is not licensed to furnish emergency medical services and who is rendering assistance temporarily, such as in the case of a major catastrophe or emergency, because of the licensed ambulance services of the county are insufficient or unable to meet the demands thereof; or a licensed ambulance service requested to provide services as specified in any valid mutual aid agreement.
(Ord. No. 96-01, § 1(201), 10-10-1995)
Sec. 18-122. - General operations regulations.
(a)
General compliance. All ambulance services, its vehicles and personnel shall, at all times, be operated in compliance with all laws, rules, regulations, orders and decrees of the state and the county.
(b)
Occupation permit. No ambulance service shall commence operations until such time as a county occupational permit has been obtained. All occupational permits shall be subject to suspension and/or revocation, as provided in article II of this chapter, for any violation of this article or any other ordinance or regulation of the county.
(c)
Base station. All ambulance services offering services to residents of the county must have a permanent base of operations located within the county.
(d)
Hours of operation. All ambulance services offering services to residents of the county must provide such services 24 hours a day, seven days a week.
(e)
Staffing. All ambulance services offering services to residents of the county shall have at least two qualified and certified personnel on duty and available to answer calls for assistance, at all times. At least one of these individuals must_ be certified as a paramedic or a cardiac technician.
(f)
Vehicles. All vehicles operated by any ambulance service offering services to residents of the county shall be equipped to provide advanced life support at all times.
(g)
Public access. All ambulance services offering services to residents of the county must not advertise or encourage the use of any other telephone number other than 911 for emergency calls. Such services must establish a local or tollfree telephone number for residents to arrange for nonemergency transportation and/or business calls.
(h)
Zoning plan. All ambulance services offering services to residents of the county must comply at all times to the regional ambulance zoning plan. Violation of this plan shall constitute a violation of this article.
(Ord. No. 96-01, § 1(202), 10-10-1995)
