Sec. 3.05.04. - Exceptions.
(a)
The following land uses are excepted from the provisions of section 3.05.03:
(1)
Existing land uses, except as follows:
a.
When the existing land use, or any building or structure involved in that use, is enlarged, increased, or extended to occupy a greater area of land;
b.
When the existing land use, or any building or structure involved in that use, is moved (in whole or in part) to any other portion of the property; or
c.
When the existing land use ceases for a period of more than one year.
(2)
Agricultural production, provided that it is consistent with all state and federal laws, regulations promulgated by the Georgia Department of Agriculture, and Best Management Practices established by the Georgia Soil and Water Conservation Commission.
(3)
Timber harvesting as promulgated by the Georgia Forestry Commission incorporating and complying with best management practices.
(4)
Crossings by transportation facilities and utility lines. However, issuance of permits for such uses or activities is contingent upon the completion of a feasibility study that identifies alternative routing strategies that do not violate the RBZ, as well as a mitigation plan to minimize impacts on the RBZ.
(5)
Temporary stream, stream bank, and vegetation restoration projects, the goal of which is to restore the stream or RBZ to an ecologically healthy state.
(6)
Structures which, by their nature, cannot be located anywhere except within the RBZ. These include docks, boat launches, public water supply intake structures, facilities for natural water quality treatment and purification, and public wastewater treatment plant sewer lines and outfalls.
(7)
Wildlife and fishery management activities consistent with the purposes of O.C.G.A. ยง 12-2-8 (as amended).
(8)
Construction of a single-family residence, including the usual appurtenances, provided that:
a.
Based on the size, shape or topography of the property, as of the effective date of this ordinance, it is not reasonably possible to construct a single-family dwelling without encroaching upon the RBZ;
b.
The dwelling conforms with all other zoning regulations;
c.
The dwelling is located on a tract of land containing at least two acres. For purposes of these standards, the size of the tract of land shall not include any area that lies within the protected river or stream; and
d.
There shall be only one such dwelling on each two-acre or larger tract of land.
(9)
Other uses permitted by the Georgia DNR or under Section 404 of the Clean Water Act.
(b)
Notwithstanding the above, all excepted uses, structures or activities shall comply with the requirements of the Erosion and Sedimentation Act of 1975 (as amended) and all applicable Best Management Practices and shall not diminish water quality as defined by the Clean Water Act. All excepted uses shall be located as far from the stream bank as reasonably possible.
