PART I - CHARTER[1]
AN ACT
To amend, revise, consolidate, and supersede the Acts incorporating the Town of Tallulah Falls, in Habersham and Rabun counties; to create and establish a new Charter and municipal government for said town; to declare and consolidate the rights and powers of said corporation; to repeal a specific Act; to repeal conflicting laws; and for other purposes.
WHEREAS, the Town of Tallulah Falls, in Habersham and Rabun counties was incorporated by an Act of the General Assembly of Georgia, approved October 7, 1885 (Ga. L. 1885, p. 404) and reincorporated by an Act approved November 12, 1888 (Ga. L. 1888-89, p. 1003), which Act has been several times amended; and
WHEREAS, it is highly desirable and necessary, as well as in the interests of the people of the Town of Tallulah Falls, that said Acts be amended, revised, updated, and superseded.
Be it enacted by the General Assembly of Georgia:
Footnotes:
--- (1) ---
Editor's note— Printed herein is the Charter of the town, being 1984 Ga. Laws (Act No. 585), page 3547. Amendments are indicated by parenthetical history notes following amended sections. The absence of a history note indicates that the provision remains unchanged from the original act. Obvious misspellings have been corrected without notation. For stylistic purposes, a uniform system of headings, catchlines and capitalization has been used. Additions made for clarity are indicated by brackets.

ARTICLE I. - CREATION

Sec. 1.10. - Name.
This town and the inhabitants thereof, are constituted and declared a body politic and corporate under the name and style of Town of Tallulah Falls, Georgia, and by that name shall have perpetual succession.
Sec. 1.11. - Corporate boundaries.
The corporate boundaries of the Town of Tallulah Falls are more fully described in Appendix A attached to and made a part of this Act.
Sec. 1.12. - Powers and construction.
(a)
This town shall have all powers possible for a town to have under the present or future constitution and laws of this state as fully and completely as though they were specifically enumerated in this Charter.
(b)
The powers of this town shall be construed liberally in favor of the town. The specific mention or failure to mention particular powers shall not be construed as limiting in any way the power of this town.
Sec. 1.13. - Exercise of powers.
All powers, functions, rights, privileges, and immunities of the town, its officers, agencies, or employees shall be carried into execution as provided by this Charter. If this Charter makes no provisions such shall be carried into execution as provided by ordinance or as provided by pertinent laws of the State of Georgia.
Sec. 1.14. - Powers.
The Town of Tallulah Falls shall have the power to extend its water and sewerage systems outside the corporate limits of the city and provide and sell such water and sewerage services inside and outside the corporate limits of the city as provided by ordinance.
(1990 Ga. Laws (Act No. 934), page 4384, § 1)
ARTICLE II. - TOWN COUNCIL

Sec. 2.10. - Town council creation; composition; number; election.
The legislative authority of the government of this town, except as otherwise specifically provided in this Charter, shall be vested in a town council to be composed of a mayor and four council members. The mayor and council members shall be elected in the manner provided by article V of this Charter.
Sec. 2.11. - Town council terms and qualifications for office.
The members of the town council shall serve for terms of four years and until their respective successors are elected and oaths of office taken. No person shall be eligible to serve as mayor or town council member unless he shall have been a resident of the town six months immediately prior to the date of the election of mayor or members of the town council; each shall continue to reside therein during his period of service and shall be registered and qualified to vote in municipal elections of this town. No person related within the second degree by affinity, or within the third degree by consanguinity, to any elected officer of the town shall be elected or appointed to any office of the town other than as an unpaid volunteer, and with the consent of the majority of the remaining council members. "Unpaid volunteer" shall mean any person who takes on a role on behalf of the town for no compensation or remuneration.
(1990 Ga. Laws (Act No. 934), page 4384, § 2; 2018 Ga. Laws (Act No. 511), page 4044, § 1; 2020 Ga. Laws (Act No. 537) , page 4062, § 1)
Sec. 2.12. - Vacancy; filling of vacancies.
(a)
The office of mayor or council member shall become vacant upon the incumbent's death, resignation, removal, or otherwise.
(b)
A vacancy in the office of mayor or council member shall be filled as provided for in Article V.
(2018 Ga. Laws (Act No. 511), page 4044, § 1; 2020 Ga. Laws (Act No. 537) , page 4062, § 1)
Sec. 2.13. - Compensation and expenses.
The mayor and council members shall receive compensation for their services in an amount set by ordinance adopted as provided by general law. The mayor and council members shall be entitled to receive their actual and necessary expenses incurred in the performance of their duties of office.
Sec. 2.14. - Holding other office; voting when personally interested.
(a)
Except as authorized or permitted by general state law, the mayor or any council member shall not hold any other town office or town employment during the term for which he was elected, except as an unpaid volunteer, and with the consent of the majority of the remaining council members. "Unpaid volunteer" shall mean any person who takes on a role on behalf of the town for no compensation or remuneration.
(b)
Neither the mayor nor any member of the town council shall vote upon or sign or veto any question in which he is personally interested.
( 2020 Ga. Laws (Act No. 537) , page 4062, § 1)
Sec. 2.15. - General power and authority of the town council.
Except as otherwise provided by this Charter, the town council shall be vested with all the powers of government of this town as provided by article I.
Sec. 2.16. - Regular and special meetings.
(a)
The town council shall hold regular meetings at such times and places as prescribed by Charter.
(b)
Special meetings of the town council may be held on call of the mayor or three members of the town council. Notice of such special meetings shall be served on all other members personally, or by telephone personally, at least 48 hours in advance of the meeting. Such notice to council members shall not be required if the mayor and all council members are present when the special meeting is called. Such notice of any special meeting may be waived by a council member in writing before or after such a meeting, and attendance at the meeting shall also constitute a waiver of notice of any business transacted in such council member's presence. Only the business stated in the call may be transacted at the special meeting.
(c)
All meetings of the town council shall be public to the extent required by general state law and notice to the public of special meetings shall be made as fully as is reasonably possible twenty-four hours prior to such meetings.
(1996 Ga. Laws (Act No. 992), page 4463, § 1; 2007 Ga. Laws (Act No. 66), page 3533, § 1; 2020 Ga. Laws (Act No. 537) , page 4062, § 1)
Sec. 2.17. - Quorum; voting.
The mayor or mayor pro tem and three council members shall constitute a quorum and shall be authorized to transact business of the council. Voting on the adoption of ordinances shall be taken by voice vote or a show of hands, and the affirmative votes, negative votes, and any abstention shall be recorded in the journal. Any member of the council shall have the right to request a roll-call vote. The affirmative vote of three council members, or two council members and the mayor in the case of a tie vote, shall be required for the adoption of any ordinance, resolution, or motion except as otherwise provided for in this Charter. The mayor shall not vote when the mayor is an interested party or when he recuses himself from the vote. In the case of a tie vote where the mayor is unable to break the tie, the ordinance or resolution shall fail.
(1996 Ga. Laws (Act No. 992), page 4463, § 2; 2007 Ga. Laws (Act No. 66), page 3533, § 2; 2020 Ga. Laws (Act No. 537) , page 4062, § 1)
Sec. 2.18. - Action requiring an ordinance.
In addition to other acts required by general state law or by specific provisions of this Charter to be done by ordinance, acts of the town council which have the force and effect of law shall be done by ordinance.
Sec. 2.19. - Codes of technical regulations.
The town council may adopt any standard code of technical regulations by reference thereto in an adopting ordinance. A copy of each adopted code of technical regulations, as well as the adopting ordinance, shall be authenticated and recorded by the clerk pursuant to section 2.20.
Sec. 2.20. - Signing; authenticating; recording; codification; printing.
(a)
The clerk shall, by his signature, authenticate and record in full a properly indexed book kept for that purpose all ordinances adopted by the council.
(b)
The town council shall provide for the preparation of a general codification of all of the ordinances of the town having the force and effect of law. The general codification shall be adopted by the town council by ordinance and shall be published promptly, together with all amendments thereto and such codes of technical regulations and other rules and regulations as the town council may specify. This compilation shall be known and cited officially as "The Code of the Town of Tallulah Falls, Georgia."
(c)
The town council shall make such further arrangements as deemed desirable with respect to reproduction and distribution of any current code or additions to codes of technical regulations and other rules and regulations included in the code.
( 2020 Ga. Laws (Act No. 537) , page 4062, § 1)
Sec. 2.21. - Election of mayor; compensation.
The mayor shall be elected and serve for a term of four years and until his successor is elected and oath of office administered. He shall be a qualified elector of this town and shall have been a resident of this town six months immediately preceding his election. He shall continue to reside in the Town of Tallulah Falls during the period of his service. The compensation of the mayor shall be established in the same manner as for council members.
( 2020 Ga. Laws (Act No. 537) , page 4062, § 1)
Editor's note— The term of office of the mayor is now four years. See section 5.10.
Sec. 2.22. - Mayor pro tem.
The town council shall elect by majority vote from among its members a mayor pro tem who shall assume the duties, powers, and restrictions of the mayor upon declaration by the town council in the event of the mayor's disability or absence.
( 2020 Ga. Laws (Act No. 537) , page 4062, § 1)
Sec. 2.23. - Powers and duties of the mayor.
The mayor shall be the chief executive of this town. He shall possess all of the executive and administrative powers granted to the town under the constitution and laws of the State of Georgia, and all the executive and administrative powers in this Charter. It shall be the duty of the mayor to:
(1)
See that all laws and ordinances of the town are faithfully executed;
(2)
Exercise supervision over all executive and administrative work of the town and provide for the coordination of administrative activities;
(3)
Be the official head and spokesperson for the town for service of process and ceremonial purposes;
(4)
Sign as a matter of course all written contracts, ordinances, and other instruments executed by the town which by law are required to be in writing;
(5)
Vote as a member of the town council only at such times as are necessary to break a tie of the council;
(6)
Prepare and submit to the town council a recommended annual operating budget and recommended capital budget; and
(7)
Fulfill such other executive and administrative duties as the town council shall by ordinance establish.
( 2020 Ga. Laws (Act No. 537) , page 4062, § 1)
ARTICLE III. - ADMINISTRATIVE AFFAIRS

Sec. 3.10. - Boards, commissions, and authorities.
(a)
The town council shall create by ordinance such boards, commissions, and authorities to fulfill any investigative, quasi-judicial, or quasi-legislative function the town council deems necessary and shall by ordinance establish the composition, period of existence, duties, and powers thereof.
(b)
All members of boards, commissions, and authorities of the town shall be appointed by the town council for such terms of office and in such manner as shall be provided by ordinance, except where other appointing authority, term of office, or manner of appointment is prescribed by this Charter or general state law.
(c)
The town council, by ordinance, may provide for the compensation and reimbursement for actual and necessary expenses of the members of any board, commission, or authority.
(d)
Any vacancy on a board, commission, or authority of the town shall be filled for the unexpired term in the manner provided by ordinance adopted by town council.
(e)
Except as otherwise provided by this Charter, by ordinance, or by general state law, each board, commission, or authority of the town shall elect one of its members as chair and one member as vice-chair and may elect as its secretary one of its own members or may appoint as secretary an employee of the town. Each board, commission, or authority of the town government may establish such bylaws, rules, and regulations not inconsistent with this Charter, ordinances of the town, or general state law as it deems appropriate and necessary for the fulfillment of its duties or the conduct of its affairs, copies of which shall be filed with the clerk of the town.
( 2020 Ga. Laws (Act No. 537) , page 4062, § 1)
Sec. 3.11. - Reserved.
Editor's note— 2020 Ga. Laws (Act No. 537) , page 4062, § 1, repealed § 3.11, which pertained to restrictions on appointment of persons related to elected officers and derived from 2018 Ga. Laws (Act No. 511), page 4044, § 1.
ARTICLE IV. - JUDICIAL BRANCH

Sec. 4.10. - Creation; name.
There shall be a court to be known as the municipal court of the Town of Tallulah Falls.
Sec. 4.11. - Judge.
(a)
The municipal court shall be presided over by a chief judge and such part-time, full-time, or stand-by associate judges as shall be provided by ordinance.
(b)
No person shall be qualified or eligible to serve as a judge of the municipal court unless he shall have attained the age of 21 years. All judges shall be appointed by the town council.
(c)
Compensation of the judges shall be fixed by ordinance.
(d)
Judges may be removed for cause by a vote of three members of the town council.
(e)
Before entering on duties of his office, each judge shall take an oath given by the mayor that he will honestly and faithfully discharge the duties of his office to the best of his ability without fear, favor, or partiality. The oath shall be entered upon the minutes of the town council.
(1990 Ga. Laws (Act No. 934), page 4384, § 3)
Sec. 4.12. - Convening.
The municipal court shall be convened at regular intervals as designated by ordinance or as provided by ordinance.
Sec. 4.13. - Jurisdiction; powers.
(a)
The municipal court shall try and punish violations of all town ordinances.
(b)
The municipal court shall have authority to punish those in its presence for contempt, provided that such punishment shall not exceed $25.00 or 24 hours in jail.
(c)
The municipal court may fix punishment for offenses within its jurisdiction not exceeding a fine of $500.00 or imprisonment for not more than 60 days or both; but the punishment imposed shall not exceed any maximum specified in the ordinance or statute governing the particular offense. In any case, however, where a general state law authorizes the municipal court to impose greater punishment, such general state law shall control.
(d)
The municipal court shall have authority to establish a schedule of fees to defray the cost of operation and shall be entitled to reimbursement of the costs of meals, transportation, and caretaking of prisoners bound over to superior courts for violations of state law. This authority shall include but not be limited to the ability for the council to assess a technology fee to be set at an annual basis. This maximum amount of this fee cannot exceed the reasonable cost necessary to fund the technology and must be set out in a separate fund.
(e)
The municipal court shall have authority to establish bail and recognizances to ensure the presence of those charged with violations before said court and shall have discretionary authority to accept cash or personal or real property as surety for the appearance of persons charged with violations. Whenever any person shall give bail for his appearance and shall fail to appear at the time fixed for trial, his bond shall be forfeited by the judge presiding at such time, and an execution issued thereon by serving the defendant and his sureties with a rule nisi at least two days before a hearing on the rule nisi. In the event that cash or property is accepted in lieu of bond for security for the appearance of a defendant at trial; and if such defendant fails to appear at the time and place fixed for trial, the cash so deposited shall be on order of the judge declared forfeited to the town, or the property so deposited shall have a lien against it for the value forfeited, which lien shall be enforceable in the same manner and to the same extent as a lien for town property taxes.
(f)
The municipal court shall have the authority to bind prisoners over to the appropriate court when it appears by probable cause that a state law has been violated.
(g)
The municipal court shall have the same authority as superior courts to compel the production of evidence in the possession of any party; to enforce obedience to its orders, judgments, and sentences; and to administer such oaths as are necessary.
(h)
The municipal court may compel the presence of all parties necessary to a proper disposal of each case by the issuance of summons, subpoena, and warrants which may be served as executed by any officer as authorized by this charge or by general state law.
(i)
The municipal court is specifically vested with all of the jurisdiction and powers throughout the entire area of this town granted by general state laws to mayors', recorders', and police courts, and particularly by such laws as authorize the abatement of nuisances and prosecution of traffic violations.
(1984 Ga. Laws (Act No. 1062), page 4690, § 1; 2020 Ga. Laws (Act No. 537) , page 4062, § 1)
Sec. 4.14. - Appeal.
The right of appeal and any bond as may be required shall be had by writ of certiorari to the superior courts as provided by general state law.
Sec. 4.15. - Rules for court.
With the approval of the town council, the judge shall have full power and authority to make reasonable rules and regulations necessary and proper to secure the efficient and successful administration of the municipal court; provided, however, that the town council may adopt in part or in toto the rules and regulations for procedure in the superior court under the general laws of the State of Georgia. The rules and regulations made or adopted shall be filed with the town clerk, shall be available for public inspection, and, upon request, a copy shall be furnished to all defendants in municipal court proceedings at least 48 hours prior to said proceedings.
ARTICLE V. - ELECTIONS

Sec. 5.10. - Regular elections.
(a)
The mayor and council members in office on the effective date of this Act shall remain in office until the expiration of their terms and until their successors are elected and oath of office administered.
(b)
Successors to those two council members whose terms expire December 31, 1991, shall be elected on the Tuesday next following the first Monday in November of 1991 and quadrennially thereafter for a term of four years and until their successors are elected and qualified.
(c)
Successors to the mayor and those two council members whose terms expire December 31, 1993, shall be elected on the Tuesday next following the first Monday in November of 1993 and quadrennially thereafter for a term of four years and until their successors are elected and oath of office administered.
(d)
All municipal terms of office shall commence on January 1 immediately following the election for such position and after oaths of office are administered.
(e)
Oaths of office for mayor and council may be administered by the town clerk or any other official charged with the ability to administer oaths by state statute.
(1990 Ga. Laws (Act No. 934), page 4384, § 4; 2020 Ga. Laws (Act No. 537) , page 4062, § 1)
[Sec. 5.11. - Reserved.]
Sec. 5.12. - Special elections; vacancies.
In the event that a vacancy or vacancies occur in one or more positions of council members or mayor of the town for any cause whatsoever, the remaining council shall appoint (an) interim member(s) to serve until a special election or regular election can be held to fulfill the remainder of the vacated term(s). For purposes of the foregoing only, said election, or special election, as the case may be, shall be scheduled for the first Tuesday following the first Monday in November that is more than 30 days immediately following said vacancy. In the event that such vacancies result in there being no remaining council members, then the mayor shall make the appointments of said interim council member(s). The individuals so appointed shall then serve until the next election or special election to be held at the next available State specified special election date that is more than 30 days following said vacancies, whichever comes first. In the event that such vacancies result in neither council nor mayor remaining, then any three or more citizens and voters of the town shall order a special election to fill the balance of the unexpired terms of such offices. This special election shall be held at the next available State specified special election date that is more than 30 days following said vacancies. To be authorized by subsection (c) of Code Section 21-2-9 of the Official Code of Georgia Annotated.
(2018 Ga. Laws (Act No. 511), page 4044, § 1; 2020 Ga. Laws (Act No. 537) , page 4062, § 1)
Sec. 5.13. - Grounds for removal.
The mayor or any council member shall be subject to removal from office for any one or more of the following causes:
(1)
Misfeasance or malfeasance in office;
(2)
Conviction of a crime involving moral turpitude;
(3)
Failure at any time to possess any of the qualifications of office as provided by this Charter or by law;
(4)
Willful violation of any express prohibition of this Charter;
(5)
Abandonment of office or neglect to perform the duties thereof; or
(6)
Failure for any cause to perform the duties of office as required by this Charter or by law.
Sec. 5.14. - Procedure for removal.
Removal of an elected officer from office may be accomplished by one of the following methods:
(1)
By action of two-thirds' vote of the entire membership of the council. In the event an elected officer is sought to be removed by the action of the council, such officer shall be entitled to a written notice specifying the ground for removal and to a public hearing which shall be held not less than ten days from the service of such written notice. Any elected officer sought to be removed from office as herein provided shall have the right of appeal from the decision of the council to the Superior Court of Habersham or Rabun County. Such appeal shall be governed by the same rules as govern appeals to the superior court from the probate court;
(2)
By information filed in the Superior Court of Habersham County or in the Superior Court of Rabun County as provided by law; or
(3)
By recall as now or hereafter provided by Georgia law.
ARTICLE VI. - FINANCE

Sec. 6.10. - Property tax.
The town council may assess, levy, and collect an ad valorem tax on all real and personal property within the corporate limits of the town that is subject to such taxation by the state and county. This tax is for the purpose of raising revenues to defray the costs of operating the town government, providing governmental services, repayment of principal and interest on general obligations, and any other public purposes as determined by the town council in its discretion.
Sec. 6.11. - Millage rate; due dates; payment methods.
The town council, by ordinance, shall establish a millage rate for the town property tax, a due date, and in what length of time these taxes must be paid. The town council, by ordinance, may provide for the payment of these taxes by installments or in one lump sum, as well as authorize the voluntary payment of taxes prior to the time when due.
Sec. 6.12. - Occupation and business taxes.
The town council by ordinance shall have the power to levy such occupation or business taxes as are not denied by general state law. Such taxes may be levied on both individuals and corporations who transact business in this town or who practice or offer to practice any profession or calling therein to the extent such persons have a constitutionally sufficient nexus to this town to be so taxed. The town council may classify businesses, occupations, professions, or callings for the purpose of such taxation in any way which may be lawful and compel the payment of such taxes as provided in section 6.18.
Sec. 6.13. - Licenses; permits; fees.
The town council by ordinance shall have the power to require any individuals or corporations who transact business in this town or who practice or offer to practice any profession or calling therein to obtain a license or permit for such activity from the town and pay a reasonable fee for such license or permit where such activities are not now regulated by general state law in such a way as to preclude town regulation. Such fees may reflect the total cost to the town of regulating the activity and, if unpaid, shall be collected as provided in section 6.18. The town council by ordinance may establish reasonable requirements for obtaining or keeping such licenses as the public health, safety, and welfare necessitate.
Sec. 6.14. - Franchises.
The town council shall have the power to grant franchises for the use of this town's streets and alleys, for the purpose of railroads, street railways, telephone companies, electric companies, cable television, gas companies, transportation companies, and other similar organizations. The town council shall determine the duration, provisions, terms, whether the same shall be exclusive or nonexclusive, and the consideration for such franchises; provided, however, no franchise shall be granted for a period in excess of 35 years and no franchise shall be granted unless the town receives just and adequate compensation therefor. The town council shall provide for the registration of all franchises with the town clerk in a registration book to be kept by him. The town council may provide by ordinance for the registration within a reasonable time of all franchises previously granted.
Sec. 6.15. - Service charges.
The town council by ordinance shall have the power to assess and collect fees, charges, and tolls for sewer, sanitary, health, and water services or any other services rendered within and without the corporate limits of the town for the total cost to the town of providing such services. If unpaid, such charges shall be collected as provided in section 6.18.
Sec. 6.16. - Special assessments.
The town council by ordinance shall have the power to assess and collect the cost of constructing, reconstructing, widening, or improving any public way, street, sidewalk, curbing, gutters, sewers, or other utility mains and appurtenances from the abutting property owners under such terms and conditions as are reasonable. If unpaid, such charges shall be collected as provided in section 6.18.
Sec. 6.17. - Construction; other taxes.
This town shall be empowered to levy any other tax allowed now or hereafter by state law; and the specific mention of any right, power, or authority in this article shall not be construed as limiting in any way the general powers of this town to govern its local affairs.
Sec. 6.18. - Collection of delinquent taxes and fees.
The town council by ordinance may provide generally for the collection of delinquent taxes, fees, or other revenue due the town under sections 6.10 through 6.17 by whatever reasonable means as are not precluded by general state law. This shall include providing for the dates when the taxes or fees are due, late penalties or interest, issuance and execution of fieri facias, creation and priority of liens, making delinquent taxes and fees personal debts of the persons required to pay the taxes or fees imposed, revoking town licenses for failure to pay any town taxes or fees, allowing exceptions for hardship, and providing for the assignment or transfer of tax executions.
Sec. 6.19. - General obligation bonds.
The town council shall have the power to issue bonds for the purpose of raising revenue to carry out any project, program, or venture authorized under this Charter or the general laws of the state. Such bonding authority shall be exercised in accordance with the laws governing bond issuances by municipalities in effect at the time said issue is undertaken.
Sec. 6.20. - Revenue bonds.
Revenue bonds may be issued by the town council as state law now or hereafter provides. Such bonds are to be paid out of any revenue produced by the project, program, or venture for which they were issued.
Sec. 6.21. - Sale of town property.
(a)
The town council may sell and convey any real or personal property owned or held by the town for governmental or other purposes as provided by Code section 36-37-6 of the O.C.G.A. [O.C.G.A. § 36-37-6] or any other general state law as now or later amended.
(b)
The town council may quitclaim any rights it may have in property not needed for public purposes upon report by the mayor and adoption of a resolution, both finding that the property is not needed for public or other purposes and that the interest of the town has no readily ascertainable monetary value.
(c)
Whenever in opening, extending, or widening any street, avenue, alley, or public place of the town, a small parcel or tract of land is cut off or separated by such work from a larger tract or boundary of land owned by the town, the town council may authorize the mayor to execute and deliver in the name of the town a deed conveying said cut-off or separated parcel or tract of land to an abutting or adjoining property owner or owners in exchange for rights-of-way of said street, avenue, alley, or public place or in settlement of any alleged damages sustained by said abutting or adjoining property owner. All deeds and conveyances heretofore and hereafter so executed and delivered shall convey all title and interest in such property, notwithstanding the fact that no advertisement was or is hereafter made.
ARTICLE VII. - GENERAL PROVISIONS

Sec. 7.10. - Eminent domain.
The town council is empowered to acquire, construct, operate, and maintain public ways, parks, public grounds, cemeteries, markets, market houses, public buildings, libraries, sewers, drains, sewage treatment, waterworks, electrical systems, gas systems, airports, hospitals, and charitable, educational, recreational, sport, curative, corrective, detentional, penal and medical institutions, agencies and facilities, and any other public improvements inside or outside the town, and to regulate the use thereof, and for such purposes, property may be taken under Title 22 of the O.C.G.A. [O.C.G.A. title 22], subject to such amendments as shall be enacted, or any other Georgia law applicable now or provided in the future.
Sec. 7.11. - Official bonds.
The officers and employees of this town, both elective and appointive, shall execute such official bonds in such amounts and upon such terms and conditions as the town council shall from time to time require by ordinance or as may be provided by state law.
Sec. 7.12. - Prior ordinances.
All ordinances, bylaws, rules, and regulations now in force in the town not inconsistent with this Charter are declared valid and of full effect and force until amended or repealed by the town council.
Sec. 7.13. - Pending matters.
Except as specifically provided otherwise by this Charter, all rights, claims, actions, orders, contracts, and legal or administrative proceedings shall continue and any such ongoing work or cases shall be dealt with by such town agencies, personnel, or offices as may be provided by the town council.
Sec. 7.14. - Construction.
(a)
Section captions in this charter are informative only and are not to be considered as a part hereof.
(b)
The word "shall" is intended to be mandatory and the word "may" is not.
(c)
The singular shall include the plural and the masculine the feminine and vice versa.
Sec. 7.15. - Severability.
In the event any section, subsection, sentence, clause, or phrase of this Act shall be declared or adjudged invalid or unconstitutional, such adjudication shall in no manner affect the other sections, subsections, sentences, clauses, or phrases of this Act, which shall remain of full force and effect as if the section, subsection, sentence, clause, or phrase so declared or adjudged invalid or unconstitutional were not originally a part hereof. The general assembly declares that it would have passed the remaining parts of this Act if it had known that such part or parts hereof would be declared or adjudged invalid or unconstitutional.
Sec. 7.16. - Repealer.
An Act incorporating the Town of Tallulah Falls in the Counties of Habersham and Rabun, approved November 12, 1889 (Ga. L. 1888-89, p. 1003), as amended, is repealed in its entirety and all amendatory Acts thereto are likewise repealed in their entirety. All other laws and parts of laws in conflict with this Charter are repealed.
APPENDIX A. - CORPORATE BOUNDARIES
The Town of Tallulah Falls, in Habersham and Rabun counties, shall continue to be a municipal corporation under the name and style of Town of Tallulah Falls, Georgia, with corporate limits as follows:
All that tract or parcel of land lying and being in Habersham and Rabun Counties, Georgia, and being more fully described as follows:
Beginning at the intersection of the south line of land lot 220 of the 12th District, Habersham County, Georgia, with the thread of Tugalo River; thence in a westerly direction along the south line of land lots 220, 219 and 211 of the 12th District, Habersham County, to the southwest corner of said land lot 211; thence northerly along the west line of land lot 211 of the 12th District, land lots 179, 178, 177, and 176 of the 13th District, Habersham County, and land lots 175, 174, and 173 of the 13th District, Rabun County (formerly Habersham County) to the northwest corner of said land lot 173; thence easterly along the north line of land lots 173 and 185 of the 13th District, Rabun County, to the northeast corner of said land lot 185; thence southerly along the east line of land lot 185 of the 13th District, Rabun County, to the Tallulah River; thence across Tallulah River to the intersection of the north line of land lot 10 of the 5th District, Rabun County, with said Tallulah River; thence east along the north line of said land lot 10 of the 5th District to the northeast corner thereof; thence south along the east line of land lot 10 of the 5th District, Rabun County (said line being the dividing line between the 4th and 5th Districts of Rabun County) to the northwest corner of land lot 11 of the 4th District, Rabun County; thence east along the north line of land lot 11 of the 4th District, Rabun County, to the northeast corner of said land lot 11; thence south along the east line of land lot 11 of the 4th District, Rabun County, to the southeast corner thereof, which is also the northwest corner of land lot 14; thence east along the north line of land lots 14 and 37 of the 4th District, Rabun County, to its intersection with the thread of Chattooga River, said thread of Chattooga River being the line between the States of Georgia and South Carolina; thence down the thread of the Chattooga and Tugalo River to its intersection with the south line of land lot 220 of the 12th District, Habersham County, and the point of beginning. The area embraced within the above described boundaries includes all of land lots or fractional land lots 211, 219, 220 of the 12th District, Habersham County; 179, 178, 177, 176, 183, 182, 181, 180, 195, 194, and 193 of the 13th District, Habersham County, 173, 174, 175, 184 and 185 of the 13th District, Rabun County; 10, 11, 12, and 13 of the 5th District, Rabun County, 11, 12, 13, 14, 37 and 38 of the 4th District, Rabun County, all in the State of Georgia.
