Chapter 26 - OFFENSES AND MISCELLANEOUS PROVISIONS
ARTICLE I. - IN GENERAL

Sec. 26-1. - Disorderly conduct.
A person commits the offense of disorderly conduct when such person commits any of the following:
(1)
Acts in a violent or tumultuous manner toward another person whereby such person is placed in reasonable fear of the safety of such person's life, limb, or health;
(2)
Acts in a violent or tumultuous manner toward another person whereby the property of such person is placed in danger of being damaged or destroyed;
(3)
Without provocation, uses to or of another person in such other person's presence, opprobrious or abusive words which by their very utterance tend to incite to an immediate breach of the peace, that is to say, words which as a matter of common knowledge and under ordinary circumstances will, when used to or of another person in such other person's presence, naturally tend to provoke violent resentment, that is, words commonly called "fighting words"; or
(4)
Without provocation, uses obscene and vulgar or profane language in the presence of or by telephone to a person under the age of 14 years which threatens an immediate breach of the peace.
(Code 1991, § 31-101)
State Law reference— Disorderly conduct, O.C.G.A. § 16-11-39.
Sec. 26-2. - Discharging firearms, air guns, etc.
(a)
It shall be unlawful for any person in the city to discharge any gun, pistol, or other firearm within 300 yards of any street, alley, or building, or at any point upon the land of another person without the express consent of the owner or occupant thereof or to discharge at any time, any air gun, BB gun or toy gun which projects lead or any other missile.
(b)
This section shall not be construed to prohibit any officer of the law from discharging a firearm in the performance of his duty; nor to any citizen from discharging a firearm when lawfully defending person or property.
(Code 1991, § 31-102)
Sec. 26-3. - Report of treatment of wounds.
All physicians in the city are hereby required to report to the police department of the city all patients treated by physicians or diagnosed or known to be suffering from wounds inflicted by a dangerous or deadly weapon of any kind. Such report may be made, in writing or by telephone, giving the name of the reporting person and the patient and any other pertinent data requested by the police department. All reports shall be made within 24 hours after treatment by a physician.
(Code 1991, § 31-103)
Sec. 26-4. - Throwing of missiles.
It shall be unlawful for any person in the city to throw any stone, rock, or other missile upon or at any vehicle, building, tree, or other public or private property, or upon or at any person in any public or private way or place.
(Code 1991, § 31-104)
Sec. 26-5. - Ball playing.
It shall be unlawful for any person to play ball by throwing, catching, pitching, or batting a ball on any public street, alley, or sidewalk of the city.
(Code 1991, § 31-105)
Sec. 26-6. - Bonfires.
It shall be unlawful for any person, during a holiday or at any other time, to build a bonfire of any description within the city limits, except at places approved and designed by the chief of the fire department.
(Code 1991, § 31-106)
Sec. 26-7. - Drinking in public.
It shall be unlawful for any person to consume any spirituous malt or alcoholic beverage in or upon any street, alley, sidewalk, or other public way or place in the city, or within any public building.
(Code 1991, § 31-107)
Sec. 26-8. - Weeds.
It shall be unlawful for any owner or resident of any lot, area, or place located within this municipality to permit any weeds, grass, or deleterious, unhealthful growths to obtain a height exceeding ten inches on such property. For the purpose of this section, the term "weeds" shall be deemed to mean jimson, burdock, ragweed, thistle, cocklebur, dandelion, or other unsightly growths of a like kind.
(Code 1991, § 31-108)
Sec. 26-9. - Accumulation of junk.
It shall be unlawful for any owner or resident of any property in the city strike to permit to accumulate on such property any junk, including, but not limited to, any discarded, dismantled, wrecked, scrapped, ruined, or junked motor vehicles, or parts thereof.
(Code 1991, § 31-109)
Sec. 26-10. - Abandonment of motor vehicles.
It shall be unlawful for any person to abandon or to leave unattended for a period in excess of ten days any motor vehicle on any street, road, alley, or other public way in the municipality.
(Code 1991, § 31-110)
Sec. 26-11. - Games of chance.
It shall be unlawful to own, operate or maintain any game of chance or skill, such as billiards or pinball or other similar games, for which money or money's worth is customarily paid, unless there is first obtained a license from the mayor and council.
(Code 1991, § 31-111)
Sec. 26-12. - Obscenity.
It shall be unlawful for any person or group of persons to perform or cause to be performed any obscene, lewd, or immoral plays, songs, dances, or any other performance.
(Code 1991, § 31-112)
Sec. 26-13. - Alcoholic beverages.
It shall be unlawful to sell or trade any alcoholic beverages without a license . It shall be unlawful to possess such substances in public places or in any place outside of one's private property.
(Code 1991, § 31-113)
Sec. 26-14. - Trailers.
It shall be unlawful for any trailer, mobile home, or similarly designed vehicle, whether mounted on wheels or stationary, to be used as a residence within the city limits. No trailer, etc., shall stop within the city limits except on an emergency and temporary basis. Trailers may be used for temporary, commercial headquarters if the mayor and council in its discretion grants a permit, such permit to be valid for six months only.
(Code 1991, § 31-114)
Secs. 26-15—26-31. - Reserved.
ARTICLE II. - LITTERING[1]

Footnotes:
--- (1) ---
State Law reference— Littering public and private property, O.C.G.A. § 16-7-43 et seq.

Sec. 26-32. - City litter ordinance.
(a)
The term "litter" means all sand, gravel, slag, brickbats, rubbish, waste material, tin cans, refuse, garbage, trash, debris, dead animals, or discarded materials of every kind and description.
(b)
It shall be unlawful for any person to dump, deposit, throw, or leave or to cause or permit the dumping, depositing, placing, throwing, or leaving of litter on any public or private property in this city or any waters in this city.
(c)
Any person who violates this article, upon conviction thereof, shall be punished as follows:
(1)
According to section 1-9, by a fine of not more than $1,000.00 and/or six months in jail;
(2)
In the sound discretion of a court in which conviction is obtained, the person may be directed to pick up and remove from any public street or highway or public right-of-way for a distance not to exceed one mile any litter he has deposited and any and all litter deposited thereon by anyone else prior to that date of execution of sentence;
(3)
In the sound discretion of the judge of a court in which conviction is obtained, the person may be directed to pick up and remove from any public park, private right-of-way, or, with the prior permission of the legal owner or tenant in lawful possession of such property, any private property upon which it can be established by competent evidence that he has deposited litter, any and all litter deposited thereon by anyone prior to the date of execution of sentence;
(4)
The court may publish the names of persons convicted of violating subsection (a) of this section;
(5)
All law enforcement agencies, officers, and officials of the state or any political subdivision thereof or any enforcement agency, officer, or any official of any commission of the state or any political subdivision thereof is authorized, empowered, and directed to enforce compliance with this article; or
(6)
In the event that any person, firm, or corporation violates any provision of this article, the city attorney or other appropriate authority of the city may, in addition to other remedies, institute injunction, mandamus, or other appropriate action or proceeding to prevent such unlawful act or to correct or abate such violation.
(d)
Whenever litter is thrown, deposited, dropped, or dumped from any motor vehicle, boat, airplane, or other conveyance in violation of this article, it shall be prima-facie evidence that the operator of the conveyance has violated this article.
(e)
Whenever any litter which is dumped, deposited, thrown, or left on public or private property in violation of this section is discovered to contain any articles, including, but not limited to, letters, bills, publications, or other writing which display the name of a person thereon in such a manner as to indicate that the articles belong or belonged to such person, it shall be a rebuttable presumption that such person has violated this article.
(f)
No vehicle shall be driven or moved on any public road in this city unless such vehicle is covered by a tarpaulin canvas or equivalent so as to prevent any of its load from dropping, escaping, or shifting. However, this section shall not prohibit the necessary spreading of any substance in public road maintenance or public road construction operations.
(g)
No person shall operate or load for operation, on any public road, in this city, any vehicle with any load unless such load and the covering thereon is securely fastened so as to prevent said covering or load from becoming loose, or detached.
