DIVISION 3. - ESTABLISHMENT OF DISTRICTS

Sec. 38-225. - Districts.
For the purpose of this division, the city is divided into zoning districts designated as follows:
EXPAND
Zoning Districts Abbreviated Designation
Rural Residential RR
One unit per 5 acres, 2,000 square feet minimum house size
Residential Single-Family
1,200 square feet minimum house size R12H
1,500 square feet minimum house size R15H
1,800 square feet minimum house size R18H
2,000 square feet minimum house size R20H
Commercial
General Business C
Professional-Limited Commercial PLC
Government G
  (Ord. of 5-2016(2), § 4.1)
Sec. 38-226. - Incorporation of the zoning atlas maps.
The zoning districts drawn on maps entitled the Official Zoning Atlas District Maps for the City of Winterville, Georgia, hereinafter called the official zoning atlas with all notations; references and other information shown thereon are a part of this division. Said atlas shall be made a public record and shall be kept permanently in the office of the city clerk, where said atlas shall be accessible to the general public.
(Ord. of 5-2016(2), § 4.2)
Sec. 38-227. - Map amendment.
If, in accordance with provisions of this division, changes are made in the district boundaries or other information portrayed in the official zoning atlas, such changes shall be made on the official zoning atlas maps promptly after the change has been approved by the city council.
(Ord. of 5-2016(2), § 4.3)
Sec. 38-228. - Rules for determining boundaries.
Where uncertainty exists with respect to the boundaries of any of the aforesaid districts as shown on the official zoning atlas of the city, the following rules shall apply:
(1)
Unless otherwise indicated, the district boundaries are indicated as approximately following property lines, centerlines of streets or highways or alleys or railroads, shorelines of streams, reservoirs, or other bodies of water, or civil boundaries, and they shall be construed to follow such lines.
(2)
Where district boundaries are approximately parallel to the centerlines of streets, highways, or railroads, or right-of-way of the same, or the centerlines of streams, reservoirs, or other bodies of water, or said lines extended, such district boundaries shall be construed as being parallel thereto and at such distance there from as indicated on the official zoning atlas. If no distance is given, such dimensions shall be determined by the use of the scale shown on the official zoning atlas.
(3)
Where a district boundary line as appearing on the official zoning atlas divides a lot which is single ownership at the time of this enactment, the use classification of a larger portion may be extended to the remainder by the council without recourse to the amendment procedure.
(4)
Where a public road, street or alley is officially vacated or abandoned, the regulations applicable to the property to which it is reverted shall apply to such vacated or abandoned road, street or alley.
(5)
In the case the exact location of a boundary cannot be determined by the foregoing methods, the council shall, upon application, determine the location of the boundary.
(Ord. of 5-2016(2), § 4.4)
Sec. 38-229. - Twenty-year comprehensive plan.
Reference is made to the 20-year comprehensive plan for Athens-Clarke County and the city to be used as a general guide for future planning and zoning within the city. This plan is available in the office of the city clerk.
(Ord. of 5-2016(2), § 4.5)
Secs. 38-230—38-241. - Reserved.
