PART I - CHARTER[1]
Full Title
An Act to grant a new charter to the City of Winterville, now incorporated as the Town of Winterville; to provide for the powers of said city; to prescribe the corporate limits; to provide for the assumption of obligations; to continue existing valid ordinances; to provide for a mayor and council; to provide for elections; to provide for qualifications for office; to provide for qualification of voters; to provide for registration of voters; to provide for the filling of vacancies; to provide for oath of office; to provide for duties of mayor and council; to provide for mayor pro tem; to provide for employees of said city; to provide for sessions of mayor and council; to provide for compensation; to provide for policemen and firemen; to provide for a police court and procedure connected therewith; to prohibit intoxicants; to provide for cemeteries; to provide for taxation; to provide for revenue producing projects; to provide for eminent domain; to provide for building permits; to provide an effective date; to repeal conflicting laws; and for other purposes.
Be it enacted by the General Assembly of Georgia:

Footnotes:
--- (1) ---
Editor's note— Printed herein is the city's Charter as adopted and set forth in 1955 Ga. Laws (Act No. 247), page 2794. Amendments to the Act are indicated by parenthetical history notes following amended provisions. The absence of a history note indicates that the provision remains unchanged from the original Act. Obvious misspellings have been corrected without notation. For stylistic purposes, a uniform system of headings, catchlines, capitalization, and citations to state statutes has been used. Additions made for clarity are indicated by brackets.
State Law reference— Home rule for municipalities, Ga. Const. art. IX, § II, ¶ II; Home Rule Act of 1965, O.C.G.A. § 36-35-1 et seq.

Section 1.
The City of Winterville in the County of Clarke is hereby incorporated under the name and style of the City of Winterville. Said City of Winterville, as a municipality, shall have perpetual succession and is vested with the rights to contract, and be contracted with, to plead and be impleaded, to buy, own, enjoy and sell property of all kinds, to have and use a common seal, and do all other things and acts as may be necessary or needful to promote the municipal corporate purposes of said city, and to exercise such rights, powers, functions, privileges and immunities as ordinarily belong to municipal corporations generally under the law, as well as those hereinafter enumerated. Said corporate body under the name and style of the City of Winterville shall have all the rights, powers and privileges to purchase, acquire by gift, lease or otherwise, to receive, hold, possess, enjoy and retain in perpetuity or for any term of years or dispose of in any manner known to law, any interest in any real or personal property of whatsoever kind or nature or description within or without the limits of the City of Winterville for corporate purposes. The said city, through its mayor and council as hereinafter provided for, shall have special power to make and enter into contracts and agreements, as it may deem necessary for the welfare of the city or its citizens, and specially to make contracts with public or private electric light or power plants, telephone companies, waterworks plants or gas plants, or any other public convenience or necessary company for their products, service and convenience; to assess values of property; to levy and collect taxes, licenses, or other assessments thereon, and to remove nuisances and to have full power, control and supervision over all the streets, lanes, highways, sidewalks and alleys of this City. The said city, through its mayor and council, shall have the power and authority to grant franchises, easements and rights of way in the City of Winterville and in, on and under its public streets, alleys and other public places, to permit utilities, public or private, to serve persons in said City of Winterville.
[Sidenote: Corporate powers.]
(1959 Ga. Laws, p. 2399)
Section 2.
The corporate limits of the City of Winterville shall extend one (1) air-line mile, or 5,280 feet, in all directions, except as hereinafter provided, from the 32nd railroad mile post of the Athens branch of the Georgia Railroad near the depot of said city, except that any territory which, under the above limits and description, is located in any county other than Clarke County shall not be included within the city limits of Winterville and shall not be a part of the City of Winterville.
[Sidenote: Corporate limits.]
Section 3.
The City of Winterville is hereby made responsible as a corporate body for all legal debts, contracts and obligations for which the Town of Winterville, as incorporated under an Act approved August 15, 1904 (Ga. Laws 1904, p. 724), as amended, is now obligated.
[Sidenote: Existing obligations.]
Section 4.
All existing valid ordinances, rules, by laws, regulations and resolutions of the Town of Winterville not inconsistent with this charter shall remain in full force and effect for the City of Winterville until altered, amended or repealed. Any and all franchises, easements and rights of way granted heretofore by the City of Winterville to any utilities, public or private are hereby ratified, confirmed and approved.
[Sidenote: Existing ordinances, etc.]
(1959 Ga. Laws, p. 2400)
Section 5.
(a)
The government, supervision, powers, and control of the City of Winterville shall be vested in a mayor and four councilmen.
(b)
The mayor and councilmen in office on February 1, 1985, shall serve for the remainder of the terms for which they were elected and until their successors are elected and qualified.
(c)
City elections shall be held on the first Tuesday in September of each even-numbered year. All elections shall be by plurality vote and candidates for the offices of mayor or councilmen may reside anywhere within the city and shall be elected by the voters of the entire city. At the time of qualifying, candidates shall designate the office to which they seek election.
(d)
At the city election in 1986, a mayor and four councilmen shall be elected. The candidate receiving the highest number of votes for mayor shall be elected. The four candidates receiving the highest number of votes for councilmen shall be elected. Voters at such election shall be entitled to cast one vote for the office of mayor and four votes for councilmen. The two candidates receiving the two highest numbers of votes for the office of councilman at such election shall have initial terms of office of four years and until their respective successors are elected and qualified. The two candidates receiving the third and fourth highest number of votes for the office of councilman at such election shall have initial terms of office of two years and until their respective successors are elected and qualified. The candidate elected to the office of mayor at such election shall have an initial term of office of four years and until a successor is elected and qualified.
(e)
At subsequent city elections there shall be elected either two councilmen or a mayor and two councilmen to succeed the officers whose terms are expiring. Voters shall be entitled to vote for two candidates for councilmen and, if a mayor is to be elected, one vote for mayor. The candidates receiving the highest number of votes for mayor and the two highest numbers of votes for councilmen shall be elected. Following the initial terms of office provided in subsection (d) of this section, the terms of office of the mayor and councilmen shall be for four years and until their respective successors are elected and qualified.
(f)
Terms of office of the mayor and councilmen shall begin on January 1 following the city election.
(g)
Elections shall be conducted in accordance with [O.C.G.A. § 21-2-1, Georgia Election Code].
[Sidenote: Mayor and councilmen.]
(1985 Ga. Laws, p. 3925)
Section 6.
Any person who is a resident of the territory described as the corporate limits of the city and who has been a resident there of for the six months immediately preceding the date of the election, and who is twenty-one years of age and a qualified voter of said city, shall be eligible to be elected as mayor or councilman. Should the mayor or any councilman remove his residence from within the corporate limits of said city during his term of office, his office shall immediately become vacant.
[Sidenote: Qualifications.]
Section 7.
The persons elected at the aforesaid election in 1956 shall take office January 1, 1957, and shall have a term of office of two years and until their successors are elected and qualified. All future persons elected shall take office on January first after their election in September and shall have a like term of office..
[Sidenote: Terms.]
(1985 Ga. Laws, p. 3926)
Section 8.
Any person who has been a bona fide resident of said city for the six months immediately preceding an election and who is qualified to vote for members of the General Assembly, and is properly registered, shall be allowed to vote at any election held in said city.
[Sidenote: Qualified voters.]
Section 9.
The mayor and council shall provide suitable books or cards, or both, for the permanent registering of voters of said city. Every person registered shall take the following oath: "I do hereby solemnly swear that I am eighteen years of age, that I will have been a resident of the City of Winterville for six months on or before the date of the next city election and am qualified to vote for members of the General Assembly."
The clerk or other person designated by the mayor and council shall be the registrar of the city. He is hereby given the authority to administer the above oath. No person registering shall be required to again register as a qualified voter of said city as long as he remains a resident thereof and does not become otherwise disqualified.
Whenever an election is to be held for said city, the registrar shall close the registration records fifteen days before such election. It shall be the duty of the registrar to make a list of qualified voters for each election. The mayor and council are hereby authorized to provide by ordinance for additional rules and regulations regarding the registration of voters for said city.
[Sidenote: Registration of voters.]
Section 10.
(a)
Vacancies. The office of mayor or councilmember shall become vacant upon such person's failing or ceasing to reside in the city or upon the occurrence of any event specified by the Constitution of the State of Georgia, O.C.G.A., title 45, or such other applicable laws as are or may hereafter be enacted.
(b)
Filling of Vacancies. A vacancy in the office of mayor or councilmember shall be filled for the remainder of the unexpired term, if any, by appointment by the mayor or mayor pro tem with approval of the council if less than 12 months remains in the unexpired term, otherwise, such vacancy shall be filled by an election and in accordance with O.C.G.A., titles 21 and 45, or other such laws as are or may hereafter be enacted.
[Sidenote: Mayor and councilmen; vacancies.]
(1994 Ga. Laws, p. 3754; 2007 Ga. Laws (Act No. 180))
Section 11.
Before entering upon their duties as mayor and council of said city, the mayor and council shall take the following oath: "I do solemnly swear that I will faithfully discharge the duties devolved on me as Mayor or Councilman (as the case may be) of the City of Winterville; that I will faithfully execute and enforce the laws and ordinances of said city to the best of my ability, skill and knowledge, so help me God."
[Sidenote: Their oath.]
Section 12.
The mayor shall be the chief executive officer of said city and shall be charged with the duty of seeing that all laws, ordinances, rules and regulations of said city are enforced. He shall preside at all meetings of the council. He shall have veto power and may veto any ordinance, order or resolution of the city council and the same shall not become a law unless subsequently passed over his veto by a unanimous vote of the council.
[Sidenote: Mayor's powers and duties.]
Section 13.
The mayor and council shall constitute the legislative department of said city, and as such shall have full power and authority to establish such rules, laws, ordinances, regulations and orders as they deem proper, respecting any and all municipal affairs, and which they may consider necessary or proper, or incident to the good government of said town, and to the peace, security, health, happiness, welfare, protection or convenience of the inhabitants thereof, and for the preservation, peace, good order, and dignity of said government.
[Sidenote: Powers of mayor and council.]
Section 14.
The members of the council shall elect one of their number as mayor pro tem. who shall serve in the absence of the mayor and shall be vested with all the power and authority of the mayor.
[Sidenote: Mayor pro tem.]
Section 15.
The mayor and council of said city may elect a town clerk and treasurer, who shall hold office for such period of time and receive such compensation as may be provided by said mayor and council. Said mayor and council likewise may elect such other city employees as in their opinion should be employed. All such employees shall be elected for such term and upon such conditions as may be prescribed by said mayor and council, and shall receive such compensation as may be provided at the time of election.
[Sidenote: Officers and employees.]
Section 16.
The Mayor and Council of the City of Winterville shall have full power to fix the time, place and rules of procedure of their regular sessions. The mayor shall have power to convene the city council in special sessions whenever he deems it proper, and the mayor and council shall have full authority and power to perform any of their duties or powers at a special or called session.
[Sidenote: Meetings of council.]
Section 17.
The salary of the mayor and the compensation of each member of the council shall be set at a regular meeting prior to the holding of any regular election for such offices, and made public. Said salary and compensations shall not be increased during the term of office for which the mayor and council shall be elected.
[Sidenote: Compensation.]
Section 18.
The mayor and council shall have authority to elect a chief of police and such other policemen as they deem desirable and necessary, and to fix the compensation therefor.
[Sidenote: Police.]
Section 19.
The mayor and council shall likewise have the right to establish a fire department, with such officers and employees and at such salary as the mayor and council may determine.
[Sidenote: Fire department.]
Section 20. - Creation; Name.
There shall be a court to be known as the Municipal Court of the City of Winterville.
(1973 Ga. Laws, p. 2598; 1994 Ga. Laws, p. 3754; 2007 Ga. Laws (Act No. 180))
Section 21. - Chief Judge; Associate Judge.
(a)
The municipal court shall be presided over by a chief judge and such part-time, full-time, or standby judge as shall be provided by ordinance.
(b)
No person shall be qualified or eligible to serve as a judge on the municipal court unless he or she shall have attained the age of 21 years, shall be a member of the State Bar of Georgia, and shall possess all qualification required by law. All judges shall be appointed by the mayor and approved by the city council and shall serve until a successor is appointed and qualified.
(c)
Compensation of the judge or judges shall be fixed by the city council by ordinance.
(d)
Judges serve at will and may be removed from office at any time by a majority vote of the city council unless otherwise provided by ordinance.
(e)
Before assuming office, each judge shall take an oath, given by the mayor, that he or she will honestly and faithfully discharge the duties of his or her office to the best of his or her ability and without fear, favor, or partiality. The oath shall be entered upon the minutes of the city council journal.
(1973 Ga. Laws, p. 2598; 1983 Ga. Laws, p. 3707; 1994 Ga. Laws, p. 3757; 2007 Ga. Laws (Act No. 180))
Section 22. - Convening.
The municipal court shall be convened at regular intervals as provided by ordinance.
(1994 Ga. Laws, p. 3757; 2007 Ga. Laws (Act No. 180))
Section 23. - Jurisdiction; Powers.
(a)
The municipal court shall try and punish violations of this charter, all city ordinances, and such other violations as provided by law.
(b)
The municipal court shall have authority to punish those in its presence for contempt, provided that such punishment shall not exceed $200.00 or ten days in jail.
(c)
The municipal court may fix punishment for offenses within its jurisdiction not exceeding a fine of $1,000.00 or imprisonment for not more than six months or both or may fix punishment by fine, imprisonment, or alternative sentencing as now or hereafter provided by law.
(d)
The municipal court shall have authority to establish a schedule of fees to defray the cost of operation and shall be entitled to reimbursement of the cost of meals, transportation, and caretaking of prisoners bound over to superior courts for violations of state law.
(e)
The municipal court shall have authority to establish bail and recognizances to ensure the presence of those charged with violations before said court and shall have discretionary authority to accept cash or personal or real property as surety for the appearance of persons charged with violations. Whenever any person gives bail for his or her appearance and fails to appear at the time fixed for trial, his or her bond shall be forfeited to the judge presiding at such time, and an execution shall be issued thereon by serving the defendant and his or her sureties with a rule nisi, at least two days before a hearing on the rule nisi. In the event that cash or property is accepted in lieu of bond for security for the appearance of a defendant at trial, and if such defendant fails to appear at the time and place fixed for trial, the cash so deposited shall be on order of the judge declared forfeited to the city, or the property so deposited shall have a lien against it for the value forfeited, which lien shall be enforceable in the same manner and to the same extent as a lien for city property taxes.
(f)
The municipal court shall have the same authority as superior courts to compel the production of evidence in the possession of any party; to enforce obedience to its orders, judgments, and sentences; and to administer such oaths as are necessary.
(g)
The municipal court may compel the presence of all parties necessary to a proper disposal of each case by the issuance of summonses, subpoenas, and warrants which may be served as executed by any officer as authorized by this charter or by law.
(h)
Each judge of the municipal court shall be authorized to issue warrants for the arrest of persons charged with offenses against any ordinance of the city, and each judge of the municipal court shall have the same authority as a magistrate of the state to issue warrants for offenses against state laws committed within the city.
(1994 Ga. Laws, p. 3757; 2007 Ga. Laws (Act No. 180))
Section 24. - Certiorari.
The right of certiorari from the decision and judgment of the municipal court shall exist in all criminal cases and ordinance violations cases, and such certiorari shall be obtained under the sanction of a judge of the Superior Court of Clarke County under the laws of the State of Georgia regulating the granting and issuance of writs of certiorari.
(1994 Ga. Laws, p. 3757; 2007 Ga. Laws (Act No. 180))
Section 24.1. - Rules of Court.
With the approval of the city council, the judge shall have full power and authority to make reasonable rules and regulations necessary and proper to secure the efficient and successful administration of the municipal court; provided, however, that the city council may adopt in part or in toto the rules and regulations applicable to municipal courts. The rules and regulations made or adopted shall be filed with the city clerk, shall be available for public inspection, and, upon request, a copy shall be furnished to all defendants in municipal court proceeding at least 48 hours prior to said proceedings.
(2007 Ga. Laws (Act No. 180))
Section 25. - Reserved.
Section 26.
The said mayor and council shall have the exclusive right and authority to regulate and control any and all property heretofore or hereafter given and dedicated within the limits of said city to the public, to be used as a cemetery or place of public burial in said city. Said mayor and council shall have the right to prescribe and enforce all proper and necessary rules for the sale of lots in said cemetery, execute titles in the name of the city to purchasers of lots, and to have all other necessary authority and power for the regulation and control of such cemetery.
[Sidenote: Cemetery.]
Section 26.1. - Boards, Commissions, and Authorities.
(a)
The city council shall create by ordinance such boards, commissions, and authorities to fulfill any investigative, quasi-judicial, or quasi-legislative function the city council deems necessary and shall establish by ordinance the composition, period of existence, duties, and powers thereof.
(b)
All members of boards, commissions, and authorities of the city shall be appointed by the mayor with the approval of the city council for such terms of office and in such manner as shall be provided by ordinance, except where other appointing authority, terms of office, or manner of appointment is prescribed by this charter or by law.
(c)
The city council may provide by ordinance for the compensation and reimbursement for actual and necessary expenses of the members of any board, commission, or authority.
(d)
Except as otherwise provided by charter or by law, no member of any board, commission, or authority shall hold any elective office in the city.
(e)
Any vacancy on a board, commission, or authority of the city shall be filled for the unexpired term in the manner prescribed herein for the original appointment, except as otherwise provided by this charter or by law.
(f)
No member of a board, commission, or authority shall assume office until he or she has executed and filed with the clerk of the city an oath obligating himself or herself to faithfully and impartially perform the duties of his or her office, such oath to be prescribed by ordinance and administered by the mayor.
(g)
All board members serve at will and may be removed at any time by a majority vote of the members of the city council present unless otherwise provided by law.
(h)
Except as otherwise provided by this charter or by law, each board, commission, or authority of the city shall elect one of its members as chairperson and one member as vice-chairperson, and may elect as its secretary one of its own members or may appoint as secretary an employee of the city. Each board, commission, or authority of the city government may establish bylaws, rules, and regulations, not inconsistent with this charter, ordinances of the city, or law, as it deems appropriate and necessary for the fulfillment of its duties or the conduct of its affairs. Copies of such bylaws, rules, and regulations shall be filed with the clerk of the city.
(2007 Ga. Laws (Act No. 180))
Section 27.
The mayor and council of said city shall have the power therein to lay off, close, open and keep in good order and repair roads, streets and sidewalks, for the use of the public, and to provide how said paving, maintenance or care shall be paid, whether by said town or by the adjacent landowners, or by both; to prevent injury or annoyance to the public or individuals from anything dangerous or unwholesome; to protect places of divine worship in and about the premises where held; to abate, or cause to be abated, anything which, in the opinion of a majority of the whole council, shall be a nuisance; to protect the property and person of the citizens of said town; to preserve the peace and good order therein, and to punish all offenders for any and all kinds of disorderly conduct and breach of the peace in said town; to provide for the annual assessment of taxable property therein, which in no event shall be greater than two dollars ($2.00) on the hundred (100) worth of taxable property, provided that the mayor and council shall have the right to increase the ad valorem tax not to exceed five dollars ($5.00) on the hundred (100) for the purpose of providing a sinking fund for paying the principal and interest of any bonds that may issue hereafter by said city authorities in accordance with the laws of this State and this charter, this method to be used ancillary to or in lieu of a sinking fund for retirement of bonded indebtedness created from collection and anticipation of revenue from revenue-producing projects and systems, if said mayor and council so desire; to adopt rules for the regulations and government of its own body. The mayor and council shall have power to make and pass all needful orders, ordinances and by laws not contrary to the Constitution and laws of Georgia, to carry into effect the foregoing enumerated powers, and all others conferred upon said town.
[Sidenote: General powers.]
Section 28.
Said city, by and through its mayor and council, shall have full power and authority to acquire, construct, reconstruct, improve, and extend revenue-producing projects and systems, including condemnation of lands or premises necessary for same, to maintain and operate the same, to prescribe, revise, fix and collect rates, fees, tolls, and charge for the services, facilities and commodities furnished thereby and, in anticipation of the collection of revenues therefrom to issue negotiable certificates payable from such revenues, to finance the cost of construction and operation of same, and to exercise all the powers and authorities to do all the things and acts authorized by the Revenue Anticipation Law of 1937 of this State, and Acts amendatory thereof.
[Sidenote: Revenue-producing projects.]
Section 29.
The City of Winterville shall have the power of eminent domain to condemn public or private property for the use of said city, either within or without the corporate limits thereof, except property of any existing public utility.
[Sidenote: Eminent domain.]
Section 30.
Said mayor and council shall likewise have the power to prescribe by ordinance, rules and regulations for the erection or improvement of any building of any kind within the limits of said city, with authority to require building permit before same can be erected, and likewise full and complete authority to control and regulate the installation of all plumbing, for the protection of the property, the health and comfort of the inhabitants of said city.
[Sidenote: Buildings.]
Section 31.
This Act shall have effect immediately upon approval of the same, but no tax shall be levied by said city upon any property not within the old limits of said municipality, as defined by previous charter, but included within the new limits as defined in this Act, for any year prior to the year of 1955. In all other respects the charter and ordinances of the City of Winterville as presently constituted shall be operative within the new limits defined in this Act immediately upon approval hereof.
[Sidenote: Adoption of Charter.]
Section 32.
All laws and parts of laws in conflict with this Act are hereby repealed.
[Sidenote: Repealer.]
