ARTICLE VII. - SUBDIVISION REGULATIONS

Sec. 5-231. - Minor subdivision plat requirements.
(a)
Unapproved plats:
(1)
Nothing shall obligate the City of Doraville to issue a building permit for any buildings or structures for a lot or lots which have been created without the approval of the City of Doraville. For purposes of the subdivision of land, the City of Doraville does not abdicate its approval authority to DeKalb County, Georgia (DeKalb County) or any agent thereof although the City may elicit assistance from DeKalb County for the purposes of water and sewer services, street naming and addressing, curb-cut review and recommendation, and tax identification assignment.
(2)
Applicable review fees shall be doubled for plats which have been recorded without review and approval of the City of Doraville.
(b)
Fee(s):
(1)
A review fee (as established by City fee schedule) shall be due and payable to the City of Doraville at the time of plat submission and shall be nonrefundable. The City review fee payment along with the accompanying draft minor subdivision plat document (five (5) copies), shall constitute a valid application for review which shall initiate the review period described later herein. False, incorrect or incomplete plat documents will not trigger the review period.
(2)
The review fee is due and payable upon all second and subsequent submissions of red-line review comments.
(3)
At recording a per lot fee (as set forth in a separate fee schedule) shall be due and payable to the City of Doraville prior to the City Planner's signature of approval. This fee shall be in addition to any other fee(s) as may be assessed by DeKalb County for recording purposes.
(c)
Plan review process:
(1)
The plat shall be reviewed by the Doraville City Planner and in a limited fashion by DeKalb County, Georgia (for purposes of tax identification, street naming, and addressing; water and sewer availability; and curb-cuts as necessary) and any other review agent deemed necessary by the City Planner or the City of Doraville.
(2)
Red-line comments shall be returned to the applicant in order to correct deficiencies as a first plan review.
(3)
The applicant is required to return all red-line comments with each second and subsequent review.
(4)
Failure to provide red-line comments on a second plat review shall terminate the plan review and the plat shall be denied accordingly and the process shall begin anew with a new review time-frame and review fee.
(d)
Minimum requirements:
(1)
The minor subdivision survey plat shall be based on a certified boundary survey delineating the entirety of the property being contained within the minor subdivision plat, and tied to a point of reference (tie point) with the same degree of accuracy as the boundary survey itself. The survey shall have an accuracy of no less than one (1) in ten thousand (10,000), and shall meet all the requirements of Georgia Law regarding the recording of maps and plats.
(2)
A location sketch map shall be shown which indicates the property location in reference to verifiable monuments such as streets and other rights-of-way and/or other major geographical features.
(3)
The name(s) and lot number(s) of any previous recorded subdivision(s), if any, of which the land(s) may be a part of. If not, state "the property shown hereon is not part of any previously recorded subdivision."
(4)
The district(s) and land lot number(s) shall be shown.
(5)
The date of the drawing shall be shown (month, date, and year).
(6)
The current zoning of the lot(s) and any applicable condition(s), any prior map amendment variance(s) (both administrative and nonadministrative) and condition(s), If any, shall be shown.
(7)
Lot lines with dimensions to the nearest one-tenth ( 1/10 ) of a foot and bearings to the nearest second, and radii of rounded corners, as necessary to delineate each lot.
(8)
The lots shall be numbered in sequential order. If part of a previously recorded subdivision, the lot numbers shall be reflective of the sequential numbering of parent tracts (e.g., by adding a letter to the existing lot number beginning with a, b, c... etc).
(9)
Accurate location, material, and description of monuments and markers (all monuments shall be in place prior to approval of the minor subdivision plat).
(10)
Extent of the 100-year floodplain and a floodplain chart showing the area (in square feet) of the lot(s) within and outside the floodplain. The minimum lot area as required by zoning shall be met outside the floodplain and wetlands should be noted. Origin of the floodplain data shall be shown. The floodplain line, if any, shall be visually shown and labeled on the plat. The minimum finished floor elevation as required by the City's floodplain ordinance (three (3) feet above the base flood) shall be identified. If no floodplain or wetlands, a statement that "no wetlands or floodplain contained within the confines of the lots shown hereon" shall be included.
(11)
Street address numbers and tax identification numbers shall be shown. Applicants should be advised the location of the driveway determines the address on lots with more than one (1) public street frontage. Street address numbers and tax identification numbers shall be as assigned by DeKalb County, Georgia in their respective capacity of the taxing authority for the City of Doraville.
(12)
The name, address, and telephone number of the owner(s) of land being subdivided.
(13)
The name, address, and telephone number of the subdivider if other than the owner.
(14)
The name, address, and telephone number of the land surveyor or other person preparing the plat.
(15)
The names of all adjoining property owners of record, lot numbers and street address as applicable, subdivision name and unit or phase as applicable, and deed book and page number.
(16)
The magnetic true north point shall be shown.
(17)
The scale (engineer's) shall be shown and graphically demonstrated. The scale of the minor subdivision plat shall be one hundred (100) feet to one (1) inch (1″ equals 100′) or as shall be approved by the City Planner. Sheet size shall not exceed seventeen (17) inches by twenty-four (24) inches (17″ × 24″) for recording in DeKalb County.
(18)
The title of the subdivision shall be shown. The title of the subdivision shall be logically related the land being subdivided and shall not duplicate or replicate that of any existing, approved subdivision.
(19)
The building setback lines shall be shown on the plat, shall be labeled accordingly, and not merely located in a tabular fashion. The following setback abbreviations are approved for use: Front Building Setback (FSB), Side Building Setback (SSB), and Rear Building Setback (RSB).
(20)
The names of all adjoining public ways shall be shown.
(21)
Street rights-of-way and pavement dimensions shall be shown with centerline references.
(22)
Any existing or proposed sidewalks within the right-of-way shall be shown.
(23)
Any existing or proposed street light locations shall be shown.
(24)
All existing or proposed curb-cuts to be utilized for lot ingress/egress shall be shown. The Applicant is advised there is no guarantee that existing curb-cuts shall be deemed usable or that additional curb-cuts shall be permitted upon review by the applicable agency having jurisdiction over the street rights-of-way.
(25)
Label with width all existing and/or proposed utility easements and locations.
(26)
If a stream is present, show and label stream buffer as applicable.
(27)
Contours at vertical intervals of not more than two (2) feet where the proposed minor subdivision has an average slope of five (5) percent or less, or at vertical intervals of not more than five (5) feet where the average slope exceeds five (5) percent (contours to be field surveyed or taken from source datum acceptable to the City Planner and/or his designee).
(28)
The location, dimension, and area (in square feet) of all lots. All dimensions shall be field run to the nearest one hundredth of a foot and angles to the nearest minute. Lot areas shall be shown to the nearest tenth of a square foot.
(29)
The provider of water and sewer shall be identified.
(30)
All existing structure(s) to be retained, if any, and their respective number of stories and heated square feet. If any garage structure is present and the number of spaces within said structure, it should be noted. Otherwise, proposed structures and individual lot improvements shall not be shown unless requested by the City Planner.
(31)
The plat should provide if there are or are not protective covenants applicable to the lots. If covenants are separately recorded, a statement as follows is required:
"This plat is subject to the covenants set forth in the separate document(s) attached hereto dated ( MONTH, DATE, YEAR ), which hereby become a part of this plat. The City of Doraville does not enforce protective covenants."
(32)
A legal description of the parent tract boundary and that of proposed individual, platted lots shall be shown on the plat.
(33)
An original surveyor's seal shall be shown and attested with an original signature (blue or black ink) and date as per Georgia law. Mechanical reproductions of signatures shall not be accepted on approved plat documents, and, show the following:
"I (we) hereby certify that to the best of my (our) knowledge and belief this is a true and accurate survey of the property shown hereon, which has been prepared in accordance with the City of Doraville Subdivision Regulations, and the laws of the State of Georgia. Furthermore, I (we) hereby attest the lots shown hereon are in conformity with the City of Doraville Zoning Ordinance with such exceptions, if any, as shall be notated hereon."
Signature: _____
Date: _____ (MONTH, DATE, AND YEAR)
Show the following statement:
"Approved for recording by the City of Doraville, Georgia on ( MONTH, DATE, YEAR ) by ___________(PERSON/DESIGNEE), ___________(and TITLE)."
(34)
When lots are located on a curve or when side lot lines are at angles other than ninety (90) degrees, the minimum lot width measured in accordance with the provisions of the Zoning Ordinance may be required to be shown, if deemed necessary by the City Planner for clarity.
(35)
All other notations as may be required by the City Planner or his/her designee.
(e)
Right-of-way dedications: The use of a minor subdivision plat to dedicate public street rights-of-way and/or additions to deficient rights-of-way shall be prohibited.
(f)
Timeframe: The City of Doraville shall either approve or disapprove said minor subdivision plat within forty-five (45) calendar days of the date of plat submittal. If the City does not act within the forty-five-day timeframe, the plat shall be deemed approved.
(g)
Authentication of the plat:
(1)
When the City Planner has determined the plat meets the requirement described herein, a minimum of three (3) copies of the blue or black line plat shall be provided to the City.
(2)
An original surveyor's seal shall be shown and attested with an original signature (blue or black ink) and date as per Georgia law. Note: Mechanical reproductions of signatures shall not be accepted on approved plat documents.
(3)
Of the three (3) copies which will be signed by the City Planner:
One (1) copy shall be retained for file purposes by the City.
One (1) copy shall be given to the applicant for his records retention.
One (1) copy shall be given to the applicant for recording purposes.
(4)
A request of staff to sign more than three (3) copies of the plat will require an additional fee (per plat) as set forth by the City fee schedule
(5)
The City will not sign any Mylar or other reproducible plat item which has the potential for unauthorized changes.
(6)
The City Planner may designate a back up for the authenticating of plats by one (1) or more designees in his absence which shall generally be in the following descending order of preference: Mayor, City Clerk or building inspector. Designees may refuse authentication of the plat for good cause and defer action to the City Planner.
(h)
Recording:
(1)
The applicant is responsible for the recording of the plat within thirty (30) calendar days of authentication by the City. For further information on recording of plats, please contact the DeKalb County, Georgia Clerk of Superior Court.
(2)
All approved minor subdivision plats which have not been recorded within thirty (30) calendar days shall be remanded to the Doraville City Council for their consideration of action either upholding the plat approval or vacating the plat approval.
(i)
Time limit:
(1)
All minor subdivision plats shall expire and become null and void within one (1) calendar year—Three hundred sixty-five (365) days of the date of plat approval unless an appeal is filed before the expiration date with the City Clerk for hearing by the City Council as described below or a valid building permit has been issued to the property by the City. In the case of the issuance of a building permit, said building permit shall also expire at six-month intervals and shall not be renewed for minor subdivision plats more than three hundred sixty-five (365) days from the date of plat approval or as directed by the City Council.
(2)
City Staff shall not be required to notify the applicant in case of plats which were vacated due to time limit expiration.
(j)
Building permit: No building permit shall be accepted by the City of Doraville for lots shown thereon a minor subdivision plat until twenty-three (23) copies of the approved plat (with deed book and page number shown) are returned to the Doraville City Clerk or her designee.
(k)
Appeal: Any person believed to be aggrieved by a decision of denial by City staff of a minor subdivision plat, may file an appeal with the Doraville City Clerk within fifteen (15) calendar days of receipt of the denial. A nonrefundable appeal fee shall be assessed as set forth by City fee schedule. Said appeal fee is due and payable to the City of Doraville at the time of appeal filing. The appeal shall set forth in writing specifically why the appeal is mandated citing Code sections believed to be in error and/or any other supporting documentation and the remedy sought. A boundary survey of the tract in question and a legal description shall also be provided. The City Clerk shall schedule the appeal item for review by the City Council at the next available meeting. Nothing herein shall preclude the City Council from reviewing the appeal item in workshop to gather additional facts, to understand the merits (if any) of the appeal, or to seek counsel from their attorney and/or for other good cause. The applicant and/or his representative shall be required to attend the appeal hearing.
(l)
Revisions to approved minor subdivision plats:
(1)
Generally, revisions to approved minor subdivision plats shall be treated as new submissions with time frames and fees due accordingly unless initiated at the request of the City at which such time the City Council may waive fees or alter or amend the process as they deem necessary.
(2)
The following notes shall also be added to plat revisions:
"This plat supersedes and vacates the Plat of Record shown in Deed Book _______, and Page _______."
"The nature of the revision to the plat of record is to: ___________(briefly describe the revision requested)."
(3)
All other notations as may be required by the City Planner and/or his designee.
(Ord. No. 2008-26, § 1, 11-3-08)
Secs. 5-232—5-259. - Reserved.
