ARTICLE V. - NONCONFORMING USES
Within the zoning districts established by this chapter or amendments that may later be adopted there exist lots, structures and uses of structure and premises in combination which were lawful before this chapter was adopted or amended but which would be prohibited, regulated, or restricted under the terms of this chapter or future amendment. It is the intent of this chapter to permit these nonconformities to continue until they are removed, but not to encourage their survival. It is further the intent of this chapter that nonconformities shall not be enlarged upon, expanded or extended, nor be used as grounds for adding other structures or uses prohibited elsewhere in the same district.
Nonconforming uses are declared by this chapter to be incompatible with permitted uses in the districts involved. A nonconforming use of a structure, a nonconforming use of land, or a nonconforming use of structure and premises in combination shall not be extended or enlarged after passage of this chapter.
To avoid undue hardship, nothing in this chapter shall be deemed to require a change in the plans, construction, or designated use of any building on which actual construction was lawfully begun prior to the effective date of adoption of this chapter. Actual construction is hereby defined to include the placing of construction materials in permanent position and fastened in a permanent manner. Where excavation or demolition or removal of an existing building has been substantially began preparatory to rebuilding, such as excavation or demolition or removal shall be deemed to be actual construction.

Sec. 23-501. - Nonconforming lots of record.
In any district in which single-family dwellings are permitted, a single-family dwelling and customary accessory building may be erected on any single lot of record at the effective date of adoption or amendment of this chapter, not withstanding limitations imposed by other provisions of this chapter. Such lot must be in separate ownership and not of continuous frontage with other lots in the same ownership. This provision shall apply even though such lot fails to meet the requirements for area or width, or both, that are generally applicable in the district, provided that yard dimensions and requirements other than these applying to area or width, or both, of the lots shall conform to the regulations for the district in which such lot is located. Variance of yard requirements shall be obtained only through action of the City Council.
If two (2) or more lots or combinations of lots and portions of lots with continuous frontage in single ownership are of record at the time of passage or amendment of this chapter, and if all or part of the lots do not meet the requirements established for lot width and area, the lands involved shall be considered to be an undivided parcel for the purposes of this chapter, and no portion of said parcel shall be used or sold in a manner which diminishes compliance with lot width and area requirements established by this chapter, nor shall any division of any parcel be made which creates a lot with width or area below the requirements stated in this chapter.
Sec. 23-502. - Nonconforming uses of land (or land with minor structures only).
Where at the time of passage of this chapter lawful use of land exists which would not be permitted by the regulations imposed by this chapter, and where such use involves no individual structure with a replacement cost exceeding one thousand dollars ($1,000.00), the use may be continued so long as it remains otherwise lawful, provided:
(1)
No such nonconforming use shall be enlarged or increased, nor extended to occupy a greater area of land than was occupied at the effective date of adoption or amendment of this chapter.
(2)
No such nonconforming use shall be moved in whole or in part to any portion of the lot or parcel other than that occupied by such use at the effective date of adoption or amendment of this chapter;
(3)
If any such nonconforming use of land ceases for any reason for a period of more than one hundred eighty (180) days, any subsequent use of such land shall conform to the regulations specified by this chapter for the district in which such land is located.
(4)
No additional structure not conforming to the requirements of this chapter shall be erected in connection with such nonconforming use of land.
(Ord. No. 2014-06. § 2, 3-17-14)
Sec. 23-503. - Nonconforming structures.
Where a lawful structure exists at the effective date of adoption or amendment of this chapter that could not be built under the terms of this chapter due to restrictions on area, lot coverage, height, yards, its location on the lot, or other requirements concerning the structure, such structure may be continued so long as it remains otherwise lawful, subject to the following provisions:
(1)
No such nonconforming structure may be enlarged or altered in a way which increases its nonconformity, but any structure or portion thereof may be altered to decrease its nonconformity.
(2)
Should such nonconforming structure or nonconforming portion of structure be destroyed by any means to an extent of more than sixty (60) percent of its replacement cost at time of destruction, it shall not be reconstructed except in conformity with the provisions of this chapter.
(3)
Should such structure be moved for any reason for any distance whatever, it shall thereafter conform to the regulations for the district in which it is located after it is moved.
Sec. 23-504. - Nonconforming uses of structures or of structures and premises in combination.
modified
If lawful use involving individual structures with a replacement cost of one thousand dollars ($1,000.00) or more, or a structure and premises in combination, exists at the effective date of adoption or amendment of this chapter, the lawful use may be continued so long as it remains lawful subject to the following provisions:
(1)
No existing structure devoted to a use not permitted by this chapter in the district in which it is located shall be enlarged, extended, constructed, reconstructed, moved, or structurally altered except in changing the use of the structure to a use permitted in the district in which it is located;
(2)
Any nonconforming use may be extended throughout any parts of a building which were manifestly arranged or designed for such use at the time of adoption or amendment of this chapter, but no such use shall be extended to occupy any land outside such building or any separate building or structure. Where a non-conforming use is located in a tenant space of a multi-tenant building at the time of adoption or amendment of this chapter, such use shall not be extended to occupy any other tenant space(s) or portion of the building outside of such original tenant space.
(3)
If no structural alterations are made, any nonconforming use of a structure, or structure and premises, may be changed to another nonconforming use provided that the City Council, either by general rule or by making findings in the specific case, shall find that the proposed use is equally appropriate or more appropriate to the district than the existing nonconforming use. In permitting such change, the City Council may require appropriate conditions and safeguards in accord with the provisions of this chapter;
(4)
Any structure, or structure and land in combination, in or on which a nonconforming use is superseded by a permitted use, shall thereafter conform to the regulations for the district, and the nonconforming use may not thereafter be resumed;
(5)
When a nonconforming use of a structure, or structure and premises in combination, is discontinued or abandoned for six (6) months (except when government action impedes access to the premises), the structure, or structure and premises in combination, shall not thereafter be used except in conformity with the regulations of the district in which it is located;
(6)
Where nonconforming use status applies to a structure and premises in combination, removal or destruction of the structure shall eliminate the nonconforming status of the land. Destruction for the purpose of this subsection is defined as damage to an extent of more than sixty (60) percent of the replacement cost at time of destruction.
(7)
Structures incurring damage of less than sixty (60) percent of fair market value above the foundation may be restored, reconstructed and used as before, provided that such restoration is commenced within six (6) calendar months from the date damages were incurred. If reconstruction is not commenced within six (6) months, the use of said land or structure shall thereafter conform to the provisions of this chapter. Fair market value shall be determined by reference to current statutory provisions pertaining to real estate assessment and the records of the county assessor.
(8)
If a structure or premises is being used (or a legally nonconforming commercial use under the current zoning regulations, which requires a valid occupation tax certificate to operate, failure of said business to renew its previously valid occupation tax certificate, or otherwise operate without a valid occupation tax certificate (or a period of six (6) months or more shall constitute per se abandonment of said non-conforming use and any right to continue said business as a legal non-conforming use is thereby extinguished.
(Ord. No. 2014-14 , § 1, 12-31-14; Ord. No. 2022-34 , § 1, 7-18-22)
Sec. 23-505. - Repairs and maintenance.
On any nonconforming structure or portion of a structure containing a nonconforming use, work may be done in any period of twelve (12) consecutive months on ordinary repairs, or on repair or replacement of nonbearing walls, fixtures, wiring, or plumbing, to an extent not exceeding ten (10) percent of the current replacement cost of the nonconforming portion of the structure as the case may be, provided that the cubic content existing when it became nonconforming shall not be increased.
If a nonconforming structure or portion of a structure containing a nonconforming use becomes physically unsafe or unlawful due to lack of repairs and maintenance, and is declared by any duly authorized official to be unlawful by reason of physical condition, it shall not thereafter be restored, repaired, or rebuilt except in conformity with the regulations of the district in which it is located.
Nothing in this chapter shall be deemed to prevent the strengthening or restoring to a safe condition of any vacant, nonconforming structure or part thereof declared to be unsafe by any official charged with protecting the public safety, upon order of such official.
Sec. 23-506. - Reserved.
Editor's note— Section 3 of Ord. No. 2014-06, adopted March 17, 2014, repealed former § 23-506 which pertained to amortization and discontinuance, and derived from Ord. No. 136, adopted Sept. 7, 1971.
