ARTICLE V. - CITY PROPERTY[3]
Footnotes:
--- (3) ---
State Law reference— Power of expenditure, Ga. Const. art. 9, sec. 4, par. 2; discretion of governing body as to management and disposition of property, O.C.G.A. § 36-30-2; acquisition, sale and lease of real and personal property, O.C.G.A. § 36-37-1; disposition of municipal property, O.C.G.A. § 36-37-6; multiyear lease, purchase or lease purchase contracts, O.C.G.A. § 36-60-13; budgets and audits, O.C.G.A. § 36-81-1 et seq.; accounting for public funds, O.C.G.A. § 45-8-1 et seq.; local political subdivision purchases, O.C.G.A. § 50-5-100 et seq.

DIVISION 1. - GENERALLY

Sec. 2-106. - Use restricted; user's responsibility.
It shall be unlawful for any person to allow or permit the use of any City buildings or recreation center except to a financially responsible person. Such authority shall set forth the name and address of such financially responsible person granted such permission, and state the time such building shall be used and by whom and for what purpose, and clearly state that the person granted the permit shall be responsible for such building and contents thereof.
(Code 1969, § 2-34)
Sec. 2-107. - Use for unauthorized purpose prohibited.
It shall be an offense for any person to use any City building for any purpose other than the purpose for which such building is let to such person. The chief of police shall see that this section is carried out and enforced.
(Code 1969, § 2-35)
Sec. 2-108. - Permission for use required.
(a)
Any person desiring to use the City property for charitable, religious, patriotic, civic, fraternal or other similar purposes not for gain must make an application and obtain permission from the City Council.
(b)
It shall be unlawful for any person to have or use the municipal auditorium for any activity, exhibition, wrestling match, prize fight, show, performance or any other things to promote any profitable or commercial transaction or business or activity the chief or principal purpose of which is commercial gain or profit without first obtaining permission from the City Council.
(Code 1969, § 2-36)
Sec. 2-109. - Surrender of keys.
The City Manager or designee shall be custodian of keys to the municipal buildings located within the City. It shall be the duty of every person to whom a key is issued under this section, upon suspension, discharge, removal or discontinuance of the services to the City, to immediately surrender such keys to the custodian.
(Code 1969, § 2-37; Ord. No. 2013-11, § 9, 6-17-13)
Editor's note— Section 9 of Ord. No. 2013-11, adopted June 17, 2013, changed the title of § 2-109 from "Surrender of keys to clerk" to "Surrender of keys."
Sec. 2-110. - Liability for damage to City buildings.
Any person using any City building or property shall be liable for any damages to such buildings as a result of such use.
(Code 1969, § 2-38)
Sec. 2-111. - Donations of City property, funds to churches, etc., prohibited.
Donations and contributions of City property, funds and services to churches and religious organizations by the City are hereby prohibited. It shall be unlawful for any City funds, services or property to be contributed, donated or given to any church, religious or sectarian body or institution.
(Code 1969, § 2-39)
Sec. 2-112. - Use of City funds, property, services of personnel for private purposes prohibited; penalty.
(a)
It shall be unlawful for City funds, City property or services of personnel to be used when or where it is primarily for the benefit of any private person as distinguished from the public. It shall be likewise unlawful for any private person to receive any City funds, property or services of City personnel under circumstances mentioned in this section.
(b)
Any person violating any provision of this section shall, upon conviction thereof in the municipal court, be punished as provided in section 1-12. If the offender is an officer or employee of the City, such officer or employee shall, in addition to other penalties imposed, be subject to suspension definite or indefinite, demotion, removal or discharge in the discretion of the City Council.
(Code 1969, § 2-40)
Sec. 2-113. - Sale of personal property; procedure.
(a)
When it is deemed advisable to dispose of any personal property belonging to the City and used in the various departments thereof, or under the supervision of the City Manager or Mayor and Council, the sale of such property shall be made by the City Manager through a representative of the City Manager. The purchasing agent shall confer with the head of the department selling the property, with the view to getting the best price possible in making the sale. This section is not intended to authorize the sale of such property without a resolution of the Council, but where a resolution has, for any reason, provided for the sale of any such property belonging to the City, the sale of such property shall be supervised by the City Manager acting with the proper official of the City familiar with and in charge of the property proposed to be sold.
(b)
When any property owned by the City in the possession of its various departments has become worn out or useless, or has become junk or has been used to such an extent that it is advisable to dispose of same, the head of the department in charge of such property shall certify to the Council that certain itemized property is in possession of the department and is no longer useful in the service of the City and thereupon with authorization of the Council shall, at public or private sale, sell such property and turn the proceeds thereof over to the City Treasurer, crediting the department from which such property was obtained with the amount of same. Private sales of any such property requires approval by the City Council. No sale of such property shall be made by the Council where other provisions are made under other ordinances for such sales, but this section shall apply only to property of the kind named for the sale of which no provision is otherwise made; provided, however, the Council is hereby authorized to dispose of obsolete or worn out material accumulated in the various departments to the best advantage of the City by selling, trading or transferring, whichever in its discretion will be most advantageous to the City, or such property may be abandoned by motion of the City Council.
(c)
All public sales by the purchasing agent shall be advertised at least one (1) time in the official gazette of the City and by posting a notice of the time, place and terms of sale and describing the property to be sold in at least three (3) public places in the City, including the bulletin board in the lobby of the City Hall; provided, after a public offering of property for sale by the purchasing agent as provided in this section, it shall be lawful for the City Council to sell at private sale if same is deemed appropriate.
(Code 1969, § 2-41; Ord. No. 2013-11, § 10, 6-17-13)
Secs. 2-114—2-130. - Reserved.
DIVISION 2. - PROPERTY IN HANDS OF POLICE DEPARTMENT

Sec. 2-131. - Sale authorized.
The police department shall have the authority to sell at public outcry to the highest bidder for cash any and all articles of personal property that have come into the hands of the police department and which, after diligent effort has been made to ascertain the true and lawful owner thereof without success, remain unclaimed for a period of at least three (3) months.
(Ord. No. 184, § I, 1-19-76)
Sec. 2-132. - Record; identification of property.
The police department shall maintain a separate and complete catalog record of all property coming into its hands, such property to be identified in detail by its usual name, make and model, manufacturer's name and serial number, if any, and if no identifying name or numbers, to be fully described on such catalog record as to its physical properties and appearance. Such record shall also show the date such property came into the hands of the department and the disposal thereof.
(Ord. No. 184, § II, 1-19-76)
Sec. 2-133. - Attempt to find owner.
It shall be the duty of the police department to make a diligent effort to find the true owner of any article of personal property coming into its hands, and if such owner can be found to deliver such property to him. If the true owner of any such article cannot be found and the property remains unclaimed for a period of not less than three (3) months next preceding the date of sale as hereinafter provided, the department may proceed to sell such article as hereinafter provided.
(Ord. No. 184, § III, 1-19-76)
Sec. 2-134. - Location, manner of sale.
The police department may hold a public sale of all unclaimed articles of personal property held by it for at least three (3) months immediately preceding the date of sale at the headquarters of the police department. The date, time and location of such sale shall be established by the Mayor and City Council. All articles sold shall be sold for cash to the highest bidder on an "as is" basis, and no warranties of any nature, either express or implied, either as to merchantability, title, quality, or performance, or fitness for a particular purpose, shall be made by the police department.
(Ord. No. 184-A, § I, 10-2-89)
Sec. 2-135. - Notice of sale.
The sale referred to in this division shall be advertised in a newspaper of general circulation in the county, as well as the City, once each week for two (2) weeks immediately preceding the next sale date. The advertisement shall be of sufficient size and type to be easily read and understood by the general public and shall state definitely the time and place of such sale; that it shall be open to the public; and that all sales are to be made to the highest bidder for cash. Such advertisement may refer to the sale as an "Ole Hoss" sale or by any other appropriate name and shall state that only unclaimed property which has come into possession of the police department is being sold; that the police department makes no warranties whatsoever, either expressed or implied, as to merchantability, merchantable title, quality or performance, or fitness for a particular purpose, and all articles are sold "as is."
(Ord. No. 184, § V, 1-19-76)
Sec. 2-136. - Auctioneer.
The police department shall appoint a licensed auctioneer, a member of its own force or any other individual, to conduct the sale authorized by this division under the guidance of an employee of the police department and more than one (1) such person may act at any sale, either alternately or at the same time as the circumstances may dictate and in the discretion of the employee of the department who is in charge of the sale. The auctioneer or other individual acting shall be the sole arbiter in the case of a disputed sale and he shall not make a sale until all bidding on the article offered has ceased; however, there shall be no required number of bids before a sale is made.
(Ord. No. 184, § VI, 1-19-76)
Sec. 2-137. - Sales not warranted.
It shall be the duty of the auctioneer or other person holding a sale under this division to make public announcement before opening such sale that the police department does not warrant title to any article, nor is there any other warranty, either as to merchantability or fitness for a particular purpose, either expressed or implied, as to any article sold; that all sales are final and all articles are sold "as is." It shall be the duty of such auctioneer or other person in charge to make this announcement at intervals during the progress of the sales.
(Ord. No. 184, § VII, 1-19-76)
Sec. 2-138. - Accounting, disposition of receipts.
It shall be the duty of the police department to make a true accounting to the City of all the property sold under this division and money collected from the sales conducted as provided herein, which money shall be paid into the general fund of the City.
(Ord. No. 184, § VIII, 1-19-76; Ord. No. 184-A, § I, 10-2-89)
Secs. 2-139—2-145. - Reserved.
DIVISION 3. - NON-SMOKING AT HONEYSUCKLE PARK

Sec. 2-146. - No smoking.
(a)
All smoking or use of tobacco products is prohibited at Honeysuckle Park. The term "Honeysuckle Park" is deemed to include all vehicle City parking areas appurtenant to the park.
(b)
Violations of subsection (a) shall be punishable in accordance with section 1-12 of this Code.
(Ord. No. 2010-19, § 1, 8-2-10)
Editor's note— Section 1 of Ord. No. 2010-19, adopted Aug. 2, 2010, amended the Code by the addition of div. 3, § 2-114. However, said provision has been redesignated as div. 3, § 2-146 at the editor's discretion, for purposes of maintaining the sequential numbering of the Code.
Secs. 2-147—2-155. - Reserved.
