ARTICLE VIII. - APPLICATION OF DISTRICT REGULATIONS
The regulations set by this chapter within each district shall be minimum regulations and shall apply uniformly to each class or kind of structure or land, and particularly, except as hereinafter provided:

Sec. 23-801. - Applicability to land, buildings and open space.
No building, structure, land or open space shall hereafter be used or occupied and no building or structure or part thereof shall hereafter be erected, constructed, reconstructed, moved, or structurally altered unless in conformity with all of the regulations herein specified for the district in which it is located.
Sec. 23-802. - Height and density.
No building or other structure shall hereafter be erected or altered to exceed the height or bulk limits of this chapter; to accommodate or house a greater number of families; to occupy a greater percentage of lot area; or to have narrower or smaller rear yards, front yards, side yards, or other open spaces than herein required; or be in any other manner contrary to the provisions of this chapter.
Sec. 23-803. - Yard and other spaces.
No part of a yard or other open space or off-street parking or loading spaces required for any one (1) building shall be included as part of the yard or off-street parking or loading spaces required for another building, except as specifically provided for herein.
Sec. 23-804. - One principal residential building on a lot.
In single-family residential districts, zoned R-1, only one principal residential building and its accessory building(s) may hereafter be erected on any one lot in accordance with section 601, accessory uses or structures, and section 903, R-1 single-family residential district.
(Ord. of 1-24-11(1), § 1)
Sec. 23-805. - Minimum lot sizes for residences using septic tank systems.
No single-family residence shall be permitted on a lot of less than twenty-two thousand (22,000) square feet in a new subdivision which is to be served by septic tanks, regardless of the zoning district classification. With respect to existing platted lots, the DeKalb County Board of Health will evaluate each individual request for a permit on a case-by-case basis. This restriction on lot size does not apply to residential developments served by community sewer systems. Lots served by community sewer shall be no less than ten thousand two hundred (10,200) square feet.
Sec. 23-806. - Street frontage requirements.
Unless as otherwise specified within the dimensional requirements of a zoning district, no building or structure shall hereafter be erected on a lot that does not abut upon an open public paved (concrete and/or asphalt) street for at least a distance of thirty (30) feet. The exception to this requirement shall be for the residential single-family attached zoning districts (when developed as single-family attached dwellings) which shall maintain a minimum street frontage of twenty (20) feet on lots created prior to August 24, 2009, and a minimum of twenty-four (24) feet wide on lots created subsequent to August 24, 2009. Within the nonresidential districts that currently exist (C-1; C-2; O-I; O-W; M-1; and M-2) or nonresidential lots hereafter created, street frontage requirements may be met by frontage on either a State of Georgia street, a City street, or a DeKalb County street. All other districts where the development of dwelling units is permissible shall require a street frontage on an open public City or DeKalb County street. No lot shall attain its minimum street frontage on an interstate highway classification. The creation of flag lots, double frontage or through-lots is specifically prohibited within all zoning districts. Additionally, all lots within every zoning district shall meet the minimum lot width set forth by their respective zoning district at the Code required front building setback line. Effective August 24, 2009, no lot shall be created within the City of Doraville which does not abut upon a publicly-dedicated street which has been accepted either by the City of Doraville, Georgia, or DeKalb County, Georgia on its behalf, and where a plat of which has been approved for recording and authenticated by the Mayor and Council of the City of Doraville, Georgia. Variances to public street requirements are prohibited.
(Ord. No. 2009-22, § 1, 8-24-09)
Sec. 23-807. - Classification of streets.
For purposes of this chapter, all of the streets, roads and highways in the City of Doraville are classified in accordance with the DeKalb County Thoroughfare Plan as adopted January 24, 1978, or as may be subsequently adopted, and as maintained by the DeKalb County Planning Department or its assigns.
(Ord. of 1-24-11(2), § 1)
Sec. 23-808. - Jurisdiction.
The provisions of the following district regulations shall govern the location and use of buildings, structures, and land within the corporate limits of the City of Doraville, Georgia, as it is now constituted or as it may hereafter exist.
Sec. 23-809. - Reserved.
Editor's note— Ord. No. 2009-11, § 2, adopted May 26, 2009, repealed § 23-809, which pertained to dwelling space and derived from Ord. No. 136, adopted Sept. 7, 1971.
Sec. 23-810. - Residential unit density bonuses.
new
(a)
Purpose and intent. This section is intended to provide additional residential unit density for properties or developments that meet certain criteria, in excess of what may otherwise be permitted by the zoning district.
(b)
Limitations. This section does not provide additional building height, building stories, lot coverage beyond what is permitted by each zoning district, or a reduction in any other building requirement. Outside of the criteria of this section, unit density may not be increased beyond the maximum permitted.
(c)
Eligibility. All zoning districts that permit residential units per acre are eligible. Eligibility of amenities or improvements provided for bonuses are ultimately subject to the discretion of City Council. Multiple instances of a bonus may be given where applicable, subject to Council approval.
(d)
Total bonuses given. The sum of all bonuses granted to an individual property or project may not be in excess of one hundred (100) percent of the original, maximum density of the zoning district.
(e)
Affordability. When a density bonus is granted for affordability, all affordable dwelling units shall be located on the subject property for which the bonus was given. Developments granted bonuses for the provision of affordable dwelling units shall meet the following requirements:
(1)
Affordable units must be delivered concurrently with the market rate units in the development.
(2)
All affordable units must maintain their designated percentage of area median income (AMI) for at least fifteen (15) years.
(3)
The character of the affordable units must be consistent with those of the market rate units in the development.
(4)
Affordable units must be dispersed throughout the development.
(5)
Owners of affordable units shall provide proof of affordability to the City on an annual basis, including the following information for affordable units: Household size, age, income; sex, and race/ethnicity.
Owners of affordable units shall create, store, and maintain all project records for the duration of the affordability term.
(6)
As part of the application for a land disturbance permit, applicant shall submit an affordable housing plan, which shall include, at a level of detail appropriate to the request, the number, size, unit mix, location, affordability, and phasing of affordable units, and any other information as reasonably required by the Community Development Director.
(f)
Restrictive covenant agreements. All density bonuses are subject to a restrictive covenant agreement with the City. Unless otherwise stated in the criteria for the bonus, all improvements or amenities must remain for the lifespan of the development. The restrictive covenant agreement, which shall be in a form approved by the City Attorney and Community Development Director, shall be recorded with the property deed in DeKalb County, Georgia Records as a covenant running with the land. Community Development shall not issue an occupancy permit for any dwelling unit in the development until the deed restriction is recorded.
(g)
Council approval required. All bonuses granted by the provisions of this ordinance must be approved by the City Council.
(h)
Table of bonuses. See the table below for a list of improvements or amenities that are eligible for density bonuses.
EXPAND
Improvement or Amenity Criteria Bonus Given (%)
Public art Public art, including but not limited to, murals, sculptures, and interactive art. The size of the bonus given depends on the size and complexity of the installation provided. Up to 25%
Trails or greenways Construction and easement for trails, greenway, or similar when not otherwise required by section 12-37. May also be applicable to private tie-ins to existing trails or greenways. Up to 50%
Proximity to rail transit The site must be within a ½ mile of the Doraville MARTA station. 50%
Public open space A contiguous portion of the property shall be dedicated to the public for use as a park, greenspace, or other public open space and maintained by the property manager. Includes both the creation of new public open space and the expansion of existing City parks, as applicable. Up to 100%
Affordability
60%—80% AMI
(low income) When at least 10% of the units provided on the site, with a minimum of one, are for residents making 60% to 80% AMI, as defined by HUD. Units must remain at this level of affordability for 15 years. Up to 30%
Affordability
< 60% AMI
(very low income) When at least 5% of the units provided on the site, with a minimum of one, are for residents making less than 60% AMI, as defined by HUD. Units must remain at this level of affordability for 15 years. Up to 50%
Civil servant housing Units provided are set aside exclusively for use by police officers, firefighters, EMTs, teachers, and other civil servants. If set aside for rent or for sale, the rate for such units shall be limited to 30% of the tenant's gross monthly income. Up to 50%
Unit ownership Percent bonus granted based on the percent of units offered for-sale, rather than rental. Up to 100%
Micro residential units All units provided shall be "micro-units" of no more than 500 square feet in size. The site must be within ½ mile of the Doraville MARTA station. Up to 100%
  (Ord. No. 2022-20 , § 1, 3-14-22; Ord. No. 2022-43 , § 1, 3-14-22)
