ARTICLE I. - IN GENERAL

Sec. 17.5-1. - Short title.
This chapter shall be known and may be cited as "The Doraville Subdivision Regulations."
(Ord. No. 133, § 1, 10-2-67)
Sec. 17.5-2. - Definitions.
For the purpose of this chapter, the following words and phrases shall have the meanings respectively assigned to them by this section:
Block. A piece or parcel of land entirely surrounded by public highways or streets, other than alleys. In cases where the platting is incomplete or disconnected, the Planning Commission may determine the outline of the block.
Building setback line. The minimum horizontal distance between the street right-of-way line, or the street center line where appropriate, and the main building or any projection thereof except:
(1)
The projections of uncovered steps, uncovered balconies or uncovered porches which may project into a required front yard for a distance of not more than ten (10) feet.
(2)
Cornices projecting not more than three (3) feet.
City. The City of Doraville, Georgia.
City Council. The City Council of the City of Doraville, Georgia.
Comprehensive plan. A comprehensive plan, which may consist of several maps, data, and other descriptive matter, for the physical development of the City, or any portion thereof, including any amendments, extension, or additions thereto, commented on by the Planning Commission, adopted by the City Council, indicating the general location for major roads, parks or other public facilities and utilities, zoning districts, or other similar information.
County commissioners. Wherever the term "county commissioners" is used in this chapter, it shall be deemed to refer to the Board of Commissioners of Roads and Revenues of DeKalb County.
Frontage. Lot frontage is the distance for which the front property line of the lot and the street right-of-way line coincide.
Lot. A portion of a subdivision intended as a unit for transfer of ownership or for a development or both. In determining the area and dimensions of a lot, no part of any right-of-way may be included.
Lot, corner. A lot abutting upon two (2) or more streets at their intersection.
Lot, double frontage. A lot having frontage on two (2) nonintersecting streets as distinguished from a corner lot.
Lot of record. A lot which is part of a subdivision, the map of which has been recorded in the office of the clerk of the superior court of the county; or a parcel of land, the deed of which was recorded in the office of the clerk of the superior court of the county.
Pedestrian easement. A right-of-way within a block dedicated to public use, ten (10) feet or more in width, intended primarily for pedestrians and from which motor-propelled vehicles are excluded, and which is designed to improve or provide access to adjacent roads or lots.
Planning Commission. Wherever the term "Planning Commission" is used in these regulations, it shall be deemed to refer to the Doraville Planning Commission.
Streets and alleys. The term "street" means a way for vehicular traffic, whether designated as a street, highway, thoroughfare, parkway, throughway, road, avenue, boulevard, lane, place or however otherwise designated which affords the principal means of access to abutting property.
(1)
Expressway. A highway used primarily for fast or heavy through traffic, without intersections at grade or access to abutting property.
(2)
Major thoroughfare. An arterial street or highway used primarily for fast or heavy traffic with intersections at grade and direct access to abutting property, and on which the geometric design and traffic control measures are used to expedite the safe movement of through traffic.
(3)
Minor thoroughfare. An arterial or highway used for fast or heavy traffic with intersections at grade and direct access to abutting property which usually is located between major thoroughfares and intended to supplement the major thoroughfare system by carrying heavy movements of a slightly more local nature.
(4)
Collector street. A collector street carries traffic from residential or neighborhood streets to the arterial system of major and minor thoroughfares, including the principal entrance street of a residential or industrial development and a street for circulation within such a development.
(5)
Local street. A local street is used primarily for access to abutting properties in residential, industrial or other developments.
(6)
Alley. An alley is a minor way which is used primarily for vehicular service access to the back or side of properties otherwise abutting on a street.
Street right-of-way line. The dividing line between a lot, tract or parcel of land and a contiguous street.
Subdivider. Any person who undertakes the subdivision of land as defined herein.
Subdivision. The division, development or redivision of a lot, tract or parcel of land regardless of how it is to be used into two (2) or more lots either by plat or by metes and bounds description, or the division or redivision of land involving the dedication of a new park, playground, street, or other public right of way or facility; or the location, realignment or any other change in existing streets, alleys, easements, recreational areas, water areas, or other public improvements or facilities, and when appropriate to the context, shall relate to the act or process of subdividing or to the land subdivided.
For the purpose of these regulations, the following are excepted:
(1)
Any subdivision of land for agricultural purposes; provided, no lot thereby produced has an area of less than five (5) acres or an average width of less than four hundred (400) feet, and no new streets, roads or other rights of way are involved.
(2)
The sale or exchange of parcels of land between owners of adjoining properties; provided, that additional lots are not thereby created and that the lots created are not reduced below minimum sizes required by these regulations or the zoning ordinance.
(3)
The transfer of unsubdivided land or a lot or parcel of land established by deed or plat recorded among the land records of the county prior to the effective date of these regulations.
(4)
The division or sale of land by judicial decree.
Subdivision administrator. The person designated by the county planning director to process subdivisions in accordance with these regulations.
Thoroughfare plan. A comprehensive street plan of the City indicating existing and proposed location and right-of-way widths for expressways, major thoroughfares, minor thoroughfares, collector streets and other streets.
Zoning ordinance. A plan dividing the City into a number of districts of various shapes and sizes along with regulations within such districts to control erection, construction, reconstruction, alteration and use of buildings and structures and the uses of land for the purpose of promoting the health, safety, morals, convenience, order, prosperity, or general welfare of the City.
(Ord. No. 133, § 2, 10-2-67; Ord. No. 2013-11, § 13, 6-17-13)
Sec. 17.5-3. - Conference prior to preparation of plat required.
Prior to the preparation of the subdivision plat, the subdivider shall confer with officials of the county planning department and the City of Doraville for information affecting development of the proposed subdivision.
(Ord. No. 133, § 3, 10-2-67)
Secs. 17.5-4—17.5-20. - Reserved.
