ARTICLE V. - ROOMS, LODGINGS AND ACCOMMODATIONS[5]

Footnotes:
--- (5) ---
State Law reference— Municipal excise taxes on rooms, lodgings and accommodations, O.C.G.A. § 48-13-50 et seq.; operators of hotels, inns and roadhouses, O.C.G.A. § 43-21-1 et seq.

Sec. 6-141. - Definitions.
The following words, terms and phrases shall, for the purposes of this article and except where the context clearly indicates a different meaning, be defined as follows:
Due date means from the twentieth day after the close of the monthly period for which tax is to be computed.
Guest room means a room occupied, or intended, arranged or designed for occupancy, by one (1) or more occupants for the purpose of living quarters or residential use.
Hotel means any structure or any portion of a structure, including any lodginghouse, roominghouse, dormitory, turkish bath, bachelor hotel, studio hotel, motel, motor hotel, auto court, inn, public club or private club, containing guest rooms and which is occupied, or is intended or designed for occupancy, by guests, whether rent is paid in money, goods, labor or otherwise. It does not include any jail, hospital, asylum, sanitarium, orphanage, prison, detention or other building in which human beings are housed and detained under legal restraint.
Monthly period means the calendar months of any year.
Occupancy means the use or possession, or the right to the use or possession, of any room or apartment in a hotel or the right to the use or possession of the furnishings or to the services and accommodations accompanying the use and possession of the room.
Occupant means any person who, for a consideration, uses, possesses or has the right to use or possess any room in a hotel under any lease, concession, permit, right of access, license to use or other agreement or otherwise.
Operator means any person operating a hotel in the City, including, but not limited to, the owner or proprietor of such premises, lessee, sublessee, lender in possession, licensee or any other person otherwise operating such hotel.
Person means an individual, firm, partnership, joint adventure, association, social club, fraternal organization, or cooperative nonprofit membership, estate, trust, business trust, receiver, trustee, syndicate, or any other group or combination acting as a unit, the plural as well as the singular number, excepting the United States of America, the state, and any political subdivision of either thereof upon which the City is without power to impose the tax herein provided.
Rent means the consideration received for occupancy valued in money, whether received in money or otherwise, including all receipts, cash, credits, and property or services of any kind or nature, and also the amount for which credit is allowed by the operator to the occupant, without any deduction therefrom whatsoever.
Return means any return filed or required to be filed as herein provided.
Tax means the tax imposed by this article.
(Ord. No. 215, § I, 9-7-82)
Sec. 6-142. - Administration.
The City Clerk shall administer and enforce the provisions of this article for the collection of the tax imposed by this article.
(Ord. No. 215, § IX(a), 9-7-82)
Sec. 6-143. - Imposition and rate of tax.
There shall be paid a tax of five (5) percent of the rent for every occupancy of a guest room in a hotel in the City pursuant to the provisions of O.C.G.A. § 48-13-51(a)(3).
(Ord. No. 215, § II, 9-7-82; Ord. No. 215-B, § II, 2-1-88; Ord. No. 98-8, § 1, 4-20-98; Ord. No. 05-06, § 1, 2-22-05)
Sec. 6-144. - Collection of tax by operator.
Every operator maintaining a place of business in this City and renting guest rooms in this City shall collect the tax imposed by this article on the amount of rent from the occupant. The tax shall be collected during the initial ten (10) days of continuous occupancy. The tax shall not apply to rooms furnished for one (1) or more days to Georgia state or local government officials and employees traveling on official business or to rooms furnished to persons due to the destruction of their home or residence by fire or other casualty.
(Ord. No. 215, § III, 9-7-82; Ord. No. 0506, § 1, 2-22-05)
Sec. 6-145. - Registration of operator.
Every person engaging in business as an operator of a hotel in this City shall immediately register with the City Clerk on a form provided by the City Clerk. Such registration shall set forth the name under which such person transacts business or intends to transact business, the location of his place or places of business and such other information which would facilitate the collection of the tax as the City Clerk may require. The registration shall be signed by the owner if a natural person; in case of ownership by an association or partnership, by a member or partner; in the case of ownership by a corporation, by an officer. The City Clerk shall, after such registration, issue without charge a certificate of authority to each operator to collect the tax from the occupant. A separate registration shall be required for each place of business of an operator. Each certificate shall state the name and location of the business to which it is applicable.
(Ord. No. 215, § V, 9-7-82)
Sec. 6-146. - Due date of taxes.
All taxes due under this article shall be due and payable to the City Clerk monthly on or before the twentieth day of every month next succeeding each respective monthly period.
(Ord. No. 215, § VI(a), 9-7-82)
Sec. 6-147. - Return.
On or before the twentieth day of the month following each monthly period, a return for the preceding monthly period shall be filed with the City Clerk showing the gross rent, rent from permanent residents, taxable rent, amount of tax collected or otherwise due for the related period, and such other information as may be required by the City Clerk.
(Ord. No. 215, § VI, 9-7-82)
Sec. 6-148. - Collection fee allowed operators.
Operators collecting the tax imposed by this article shall be allowed a percentage of the tax due and accounted for and shall be reimbursed in the form of a deduction in submitting, reporting and payment of the amount due, if such amount is not delinquent at the time of payment. The rate of the deduction shall be the same rate authorized for deductions from the state tax under the Georgia Retailers' and Consumers' Sales and Use Tax Act, approved February 20, 1951 (1951 Ga. Laws, Page 360), as now or hereafter amended.
(Ord. No. 215, § VI, 9-7-82)
Sec. 6-149. - Deficiency determinations.
(a)
Recomputation of tax. If the City Clerk is not satisfied with the return or returns of the tax or the amount of the tax required to be paid to the City by any person under this article, he may compute and determine the amount required to be paid upon the basis of any information within his possession or that may come into his possession. One (1) or more deficiency determinations may be made of the amount due for one (1) or more monthly period.
(b)
Interest on deficiency. The amount of the determination shall bear interest at the rate of three-fourths of one (1) percent per month, or fraction thereof, from the due date of such taxes.
(c)
Notice of determination. The City Clerk shall give to the operator written notice of his determination. The notice may be served personally or by mail; if by mail such service shall be addressed to the operator at his address as it appears in the records of the City Clerk. Service by mail is complete when delivered by certified mail with a receipt signed by addressee.
(d)
Time limitation. Except in the case of failure to make a return, every notice of a deficiency determination shall be mailed within three (3) years after the twentieth day of the calendar month following the monthly period for which the amount is proposed to be determined, or within three (3) years after the return is filed, whichever period should last expire.
(Ord. No. 215, § VII, 9-7-82)
Sec. 6-150. - Determination if no return made.
(a)
Estimate of gross receipts. If any person fails to make a return under this article, the City Clerk shall make an estimate of the amount of the gross receipts of the person, or, as the case may be, of the amount of the total rentals in this City which are subject to the tax. The estimate shall be made for the period or periods in respect to which the person failed to make the return and shall be based upon any information which is or may come into the possession of the City Clerk. Written notice shall be given in the manner prescribed in subsection 6-149(c).
(b)
Interest on amount found due. The amount of the determination shall bear interest at the rate of three-fourths (¾) of one (1) percent per month, or fraction thereof, from the twentieth day of the month following the monthly period for which the amount or any portion thereof should have been returned, until the date of payment.
(Ord. No. 215, § VIII, 9-7-82)
Sec. 6-151. - Collection of tax.
(a)
Action for tax. At any time within three (3) years after any tax imposed by this article or any amount of tax required to be collected becomes due and payable and at any time within three (3) years after the delinquency of any tax or any amount of tax required to be collected, the City Clerk may bring an action in a court of competent jurisdiction in the name of the City to collect the amount delinquent together with interest, court fees, filing fees, attorney's fees and other legal fees incident thereto.
(b)
Duty if business transferred. If any operator liable for any amount under this article sells out his business or quits the business, his successors or assigns shall withhold sufficient of the purchase price to cover such amount until the former owner produces a receipt from the City Clerk showing that he has been paid or a certificate stating that no amount is due.
(c)
Liability. If the purchaser of a business fails to withhold purchase price as required, he shall be personally liable for the payment of the amount required to be withheld by him to the extent of the purchase price.
(d)
Erroneous, illegal collections. Whenever the amount of any tax or interest has been paid more than once, or has been erroneously or illegally collected or received by the City under this article, it may be offset by the City Clerk. If the operator or person determines that he has overpaid or paid more than once, which fact has not been determined by the City Clerk, he will have three (3) years from date of payment to file claim in writing stating the specific ground upon which claim is founded. The claim shall be audited. If the claim is approved by the City Clerk, the excess amount paid the City may be credited on any amounts then due and payable from the person by whom it was paid, or his administrators or executors.
(Ord. No. 215, § XII, 9-7-82)
Sec. 6-152. - Books, records.
(a)
Required. Every operator renting guest rooms in this City to a person shall keep such records, receipts, invoices and other pertinent papers in such form as the City Clerk may require.
(b)
Examination. The City Clerk or any person authorized in writing by the City Clerk may examine the books, papers, records, financial reports, equipment and other facilities of any operator renting guest rooms to a person and any operator liable for the tax, in order to verify the accuracy of any return made, or, if no return is made by the operator, to ascertain and determine the amount required to be paid.
(Ord. No. 215, § IX(b), (c), 9-7-82)
Sec. 6-153. - Reports.
In the administration of the provisions of this article, the City Clerk may require the filing of reports by any person having in such person's possession or custody information relating to rentals of guest rooms which are subject to the tax. The reports shall be filed when required by the City Clerk and shall set forth the rental charged for each occupancy, the date or dates of occupancy, and such other information as the City Clerk may require.
(Ord. No. 215, § IX(d), 9-7-82)
Secs. 6-154—6-170. - Reserved.
