Sec. 3.6.2. - Guiding principles.
A.
Support mixed-use development. The intent of the TCMU district is to encourage development of retail, residential, office and civic uses that collectively create a walkable, mixed-use setting. New residential, commercial, office, and institutional development will provide the opportunity for people to live, work, shop and engage in civic and cultural activities.
To accomplish this intent within the TCMU geography, vertical mixed-use, with retail, restaurants, or office on the lower floors and residences above, is encouraged. Generally, development in the town center should include medium to high-density mixed-use buildings with above ground-floor residential and townhouses. Residential density is an important component of a successful mixed-use area to support walkable retail and restaurants. Compatibility with adjacent development in terms of density and intensity is necessary and shall be considered. Higher residential density and higher intensity commercial uses should be established near similar existing development and along prominent corridors. Mixed-use development will promote employment, residential, commercial and cultural opportunities and enrich the varied social life of the TCMU district.
B.
Promote a pedestrian-oriented environment through design. New development should focus on human-scale design that is compatible with the Riverdale context to create a walkable environment that accommodates all ages and abilities. Streetscape elements shall complement building form and orientation to create a well-defined pedestrian zone. The visitor experience shall be enhanced through the provision of community amenities, including but not limited to sidewalks, crosswalks, street trees, lighting, and pedestrian oriented spaces. In addition, connections to open spaces, public buildings and public transportation shall be included in the network of pedestrian infrastructure.
C.
Establish a unique architectural identity for Riverdale that balances consistency and variety. The design standards established in the architectural and urban design standards apply to development within the TCMU district and are intended to ensure that new buildings are compatible with existing and future development in the district. Variety in architectural elements is encouraged to define a unique character for Riverdale.
( Ord. No. 7-2020 , ยง 1(Exh. A), 10-26-20)
