Sec. 3.1.6.8. - Dwelling unit standards.
A.
Minimum dwelling unit size. Minimum heated floor area shall be as follows:
1.
One-bedroom unit: 700 square feet.
2.
Two-bed unit: 900 square feet.
3.
Three-bedroom unit 1,100 square feet.
B.
Private yards. Dwelling units in all multifamily, condominium, townhouse, and single-family attached developments shall provide a rear yard in addition to the front yard. The minimum area of the rear yard shall be 400 square feet with a least dimension of 20 feet. End units of each condominium or townhouse building shall have a minimum side yard of 15 feet that shall run the full depth of the lot. An opaque fence or wall shall be installed at a 90-degree angle from the rear wall of the building that divides the dwelling units to create an appropriately-sized, private outdoor space for each household. Such fence or wall shall have a minimum height of six feet and extend a minimum of 12 feet from the rear of building. Multi-story buildings shall provide a terrace having minimum dimensions of ten feet in width and four feet in depth.
C.
Architectural design. In the event that a specific architectural design concept is to be a condition of approval of the development, the concept shall be set forth in the recorded protective covenants and restrictions. All multifamily housing types allowed in the multifamily district shall comply with the following standard:
1.
All four elevations of a multifamily, townhome, or single-family attached building shall feature a minimum building articulation of four feet every three dwelling units or alternately, creation of a distinctive facade based on varied architectural features or exterior finish materials. This standard is intended to achieve variation in the building facade that minimizes the bulk of the building and creates visual interest.
2.
Elements may include:
a.
Changes in the roofline at intervals not greater than 40 feet in continuous length, such as variations in roof pitch, overhangs, projections, and extended eaves;
b.
Distinctive window patterns that are not repeated within groupings of up to four dwelling units;
c.
Variations in the setback of the front facade of the building by at least five feet between adjoining dwelling units;
d.
Stepbacks on the facade of at least two feet in depth and four feet in width at intervals of not more than 30 feet;
e.
Diminishing upper floors (gross floor area of upper story is smaller than the gross floor area of the lower story);
f.
Balconies, bays, or changes in the wall plane of the front facade of the building;
g.
Garage door entrance(s) for automobiles located at the side or rear of the building; or
h.
Other architectural elements that the director determines accomplish the objective of visually dividing the structure into smaller identifiable sections.
D.
Exterior finish materials standards.
1.
The allowed exterior finishes include, but are not limited to, full-depth brick, stone, cast stone or other finished masonry, fiber cement panels, high-quality vinyl siding, EIFS, glass, wood or other natural materials, or similar material as approved by the community development director.
2.
Restrictions on vinyl siding and exterior insulations finish system (EIFS):
a.
Vinyl siding shall comply with product standards of the Vinyl Siding Institute (VSI). Vinyl siding shall be installed to the vinyl manufacturer's standards.
b.
EIFS siding shall be installed in accordance with the EIFS manufacturer's specifications.
c.
Use of these materials shall be consistent with the use of these materials on surrounding development.
3.
Fully one-half of the siding materials installed on all front facades shall be comprised of full-depth brick, stone or cast stone, fiber cement panels or an appropriate combination of these materials.
( Ord. No. 7-2020 , ยง 1(Exh. A), 10-26-20; Ord. No. 6-2021 , ยง 1(Exh. A), 11-16-21)
