Chapter 74 - UTILITIES[1]
Footnotes:
--- (1) ---
Cross reference— Buildings and building regulations, ch. 18; cable communications, ch. 26; environment, ch. 30; fire prevention and protection, ch. 34; floods, ch. 38; health and sanitation, ch. 42; solid waste, ch. 62; streets, sidewalks and other public places, ch. 66; development regulations, app. C.
State Law reference— Water well standards, O.C.G.A. § 12-5-120 et seq.; water resources, O.C.G.A. § 12-5-1 et seq.; dumping certain wastes in storm or sanitary sewers prohibited, O.C.G.A. § 12-8-2; power of municipality to grant franchises or make contracts with public utilities, O.C.G.A. § 36-34-2(7); authority to acquire, construct, extend, operate, maintain and collect fees for water and sewerage systems, O.C.G.A. § 36-34-5; adoption of ordinances, rules and regulations relating to payment for street improvements and construction of water, gas and sewer connections, payment of costs of connections, O.C.G.A. § 36-39-7; grants of state funds to municipal corporations for public purposes, O.C.G.A. § 36-40-20 et seq.; limitation on action expanding the power of regulation over any business activity regulated by the public service commission, O.C.G.A. § 36-35-6(a)(5); authority to provide sewage collection and disposal systems, Ga. Const. art. IX, § II, ¶ III(a)(6); authority to provide stormwater, sewerage collection and disposal systems, Ga. Const. art. IX, § II, ¶ III(a)(6); authority to provide for the development storage and distribution of water, Ga. Const. art. IX, § II, ¶ III(a)(7).

ARTICLE I. - IN GENERAL

Sec. 74-1. - Payment of utility services.
Payment of charges for utility services may be made by personal check. However, if a check is returned to the city for nonpayment, an additional charge of five percent of the amount of the utility charge or an amount as set forth in the schedule of fees and charges, whichever is greater, per check shall be assessed as a penalty and shall become a part of the utility charge. If a customer has three checks for utility services returned in a period of six months, the customer will no longer be able to pay by personal check for a period of one year from the date on which the third returned check was received by the city. In such instances, payment shall be made in cash, by certified or cashier's check, or by money order. After the one-year period, the customer may resume payment by personal check.
(Code 1976, § 19-1)
Sec. 74-2. - Deposits.
The city council may establish and amend by resolution from time to time the schedule of fees and charges for deposits required before the initiation or continuation of utility accounts.
(Code 1976, § 19-2)
Secs. 74-3—74-30. - Reserved.
ARTICLE II. - WATER AND SEWERS
DIVISION 1. - GENERALLY

Sec. 74-31. - Generally.
There shall be a system for the distribution of safe and pure water in the city and a system for the collection and disposal of waste. These systems and the functions necessary to effectuate same shall be the responsibility of the city council, which shall be authorized to employ such assistants and professional persons as may be necessary for this purpose.
(Code 1976, § 19-20)
Sec. 74-32. - Contracts with water authority.
The city council may from time to time negotiate with the Clayton County Water Authority to obtain water and sewerage service for the residents of the city and enter into contracts pursuant thereto.
(Code 1976, § 19-21)
State Law reference— Power of municipality to grant franchises or make contracts with public utilities, O.C.G.A. § 36-34-2(7).
Sec. 74-33. - Extending service beyond corporate limits.
No water or sewerage service shall be extended to any residence or business establishment outside the corporate limits without the express permission of the city council. Such permission shall be granted only by affirmative vote of a majority of a quorum and the city clerk shall maintain a special file of all requests together with the official action taken thereon.
(Code 1976, § 19-22)
Sec. 74-34. - Separate connections.
Each residence and user of the city water and sewerage system shall be required to have a separate and individual connection to the system and no water or sewer connection shall be extended to any other residence or user; provided, however, apartment houses, roominghouses and similar multiple dwellings may have a common connection with the permission of the city manager. Any property owner or other person who shall extend lines to any residence, tenant, or user other than the principal or original tenant, user or residence shall be deemed to be personally liable for the payment of all costs incurred by all tenants, users or residences served through the same meter, and the city shall have the right to discontinue water service until the owner pays all costs as set forth above. Tenants seeking a separate water connection may be connected to the city system on payment of all costs and expenses of making the connection and the appropriate deposit for service.
(Code 1976, § 19-23)
Sec. 74-35. - Customer permitting others to receive service through his system.
The customer shall not allow anyone else to receive service through his meter, or to connect with any system of the city, by or through his premises, pipes or equipment.
(Code 1976, § 19-24)
Sec. 74-36. - Water and sewerage bills; date due and payable; delinquency penalties.
(a)
All accounts or bills for water and sewerage service used or consumed shall be due and payable to the city, by consumers thereof, on the day succeeding the date of the mailing of such bills or accounts, and, to the amount of all such accounts or bills which are not paid before the expiration of the tenth day succeeding the date upon which such accounts or bills were mailed, an additional amount of ten percent shall be charged and collected; and if such accounts or bills, including the additional charge of ten percent, are not paid before the expiration of the 20th day succeeding the date on which such accounts or bills were mailed, the water service shall be discontinued and not turned on again until all delinquent charges, including the ten percent additional charge, plus a reconnection charge in an amount as set forth in the schedule of fees and charges, if water has been discontinued, are paid in full.
(b)
Valid checks mailed in the city and postmarked prior to midnight of the 20th day succeeding the date on which the bills or accounts were mailed will be accepted as payment. In the calculation of the 20th day hereinabove referred to, the date of the mailing of such accounts or bills shall not be included.
(c)
No discount shall be allowed for payment of water and sewerage bills.
(Code 1976, § 19-25)
Sec. 74-37. - Execution for water and sewerage charges.
Whenever water and sewerage bills shall be due by any person for using water and sewerage service and such bills shall not be paid on demand by the city water department, it shall be lawful for the city clerk to issue an execution to be signed by the city manager and directed to the chief of police of the city against such property owner for the water and sewerage bill due, as in the case of taxes due the city.
(Code 1976, § 19-26)
Sec. 74-38. - Refunds.
Without the express permission of the city council there shall be no refunds of connecting charges or other charges or billing provided for in this article.
(Code 1976, § 19-27)
Sec. 74-39. - Liability of city for failure to provide water or sewerage service.
The city does not and will not assume liability for damage to property or person or for inconvenience caused by a failure of the water or sewerage system. It is understood that the city may from time to time find it necessary to temporarily discontinue service to make additions, corrections, or repairs.
(Code 1976, § 19-28)
Sec. 74-40. - Water conservation plan.
(a)
Adopted. There is hereby adopted a city water conservation plan which shall control the delivery and usage of water during periods of emergency. A copy of this plan shall be maintained in the office of the clerk. The mayor is authorized to implement the relevant provisions of the water conservation plan as he deems necessary in his best judgement. Upon the mayor declaring any provision of the water conservation plan to be in effect, notice of such shall immediately be posted in a conspicuous place at city hall.
(b)
Penalty for violations. Any person violating the provisions of the water conservation plan as implemented by action of the mayor shall be guilty of a violation of this section. Upon conviction thereof, the violator shall be punished as provided in section 1-12. Upon notice to the city that any person has been convicted for a third offense against the plan, the city may, after giving 24-hour written notice thereof, terminate water service to such person.
(Code 1976, § 19-29)
Secs. 74-41—74-55. - Reserved.
DIVISION 2. - WATER

Sec. 74-56. - Application for connection; deposits for water service.
(a)
All persons desiring a supply of water from the city's mains must make application at the office of the city water department for service pipe and connection with the city's mains. This application shall be made in writing upon forms furnished by the city water department, giving location and number of the lot or building and shall set forth the purposes for which water is to be used. Such application shall be signed by the owner or tenant of the property or his authorized agent. The turning on of water at any premises shall mean that compliance with all rules and regulations of the water department of the city have been agreed to by the applicant.
(b)
Upon application for water service an owner of the premises for which the application is made who is also the occupant of such premises will be required to make a deposit in the amount specified in the schedule of fees and charges for residential premises. The deposit for commercial and industrial premises and apartments shall be two months' average bill. Persons making application for water service who are not the owners of the premises for which application is made or persons making application for water service who are not occupants of the premises for which application is made shall be required to make a like deposit before receiving water service. This deposit will be refunded in full after one year if the account has not had any late charges or cutoffs. Should any consumer fail to pay an account when due, the city shall use such deposit toward payment of the account. However, the property owner at all times is responsible for all water charges arising from service to his property incurred under his direction.
(Code 1976, § 19-40)
Sec. 74-57. - Water service installation charges.
(a)
The city council shall establish from time to time a schedule of fees for water installation, which shall include tapping the city water main, furnishing and installing a water meter and curb stop, and furnishing labor and material for installation of the water line from the city's water main in the street to the customer's property line. A copy of the schedule shall be available for public inspection and maintained for such purposes in city hall.
(b)
Fees for water installation involving meters larger than those specified in the schedule shall be established on an individual basis by the city council upon application therefor, but will generally be determined by the cost of the meter, labor and material for installation.
(c)
All fees set forth in the schedule shall be due and payable when the application for water installation is submitted to the city or as otherwise provided by the city council.
(Code 1976, § 19-41)
Sec. 74-58. - Meters required for water service.
No person shall tap on or use any water which is furnished through city water mains without the same being furnished by the city through a metering device approved by the city for his use, unless otherwise authorized to do so in writing by the city council.
(Code 1976, § 19-42)
Sec. 74-59. - Multiple use of one meter.
It is the policy of the city that each resident or user of the city water system shall be required to have a separate and individual connection to such system. Where one meter is shared by more than one user, the total gallonage passing through the meter shall be divided equally among all users and each user shall pay a water bill computed by applying the quotient to the rate charts set out in section 74-60.
(Code 1976, § 19-43)
Sec. 74-60. - Water rates.
The city council shall establish from time to time a schedule of residential, commercial and industrial rates for water service. A copy of the schedule shall be available for public inspection and maintained for such purposes in city hall.
(Code 1976, § 19-44)
Sec. 74-61. - Automatic sprinkler systems.
The city council shall establish from time to time a schedule of fees for the operation of an automatic sprinkler system for fire safety. These fees shall be in addition to any other charges or fees as may be established in this Code. A copy of the schedule shall be available for public inspection and maintained for such purposes in city hall.
(Code 1976, § 19-45)
Sec. 74-62. - Tampering with meters; permission to receive water.
No person shall tamper with or break any seal on any water meter or water measuring device connected to the water system of the city. No person shall be authorized to use any water supplied by the city through its water mains unless permission is first granted by agents, servants or employees of the city for the furnishing of such water.
(Code 1976, § 19-46)
Sec. 74-63. - Reconnection charges.
Should the city find it necessary to discontinue water service because of the customer's failure to pay his water bill under the regulations as set forth in section 74-36, the customer's meter will not be reactivated until:
(1)
The bill is paid in full; and
(2)
The customer pays a charge as set forth in the schedule of fees and charges for the restoration of service.
(Code 1976, § 19-47)
Sec. 74-64. - Use of water after disconnection by city.
If at any time water service is discontinued to any water customer or to any person, water service shall not be furnished again to such person until authorized by an agent, servant, or employee of the city, and the customer or person shall not, without the permission of the city, endeavor in any manner whatsoever to turn on or cause water from the city mains to be used for the customer or person who has had the water service discontinued.
(Code 1976, § 19-48)
Sec. 74-65. - Faulty meters.
(a)
If any meter should get out of order or for any reason fail to register and water is being used, the customer will be billed at the average monthly consumption as shown by meter when in order.
(b)
A customer believing his meter to be faulty may in writing request the city to check same. Upon the receipt of such request at the office of the city water department, along with a deposit as specified in the schedule of fees and charges, which is to partially cover the costs of removing the meter, sending the meter to a checking station and replacing the meter, this work will be accomplished and a check of the registering device made. Should the results of the check show the meter to be within two percent of correct, the deposit will be forfeited by the customer. Should the results of the check show the meter to be in error more than two percent or registering more water than actually is passing through the meter, the city will refund the deposit and replace or repair the meter at no charge to the customer.
(Code 1976, § 19-49)
Sec. 74-66. - Broken meters; meter locks.
(a)
It shall be the duty of every property owner receiving water service from the city to protect from damage or breakage any water meter or water meter lock serving the owner's premises. Should the city find any water meter or water meter lock damaged or broken, the water service shall be immediately discontinued, the owner and tenants (if any) notified, and in the case of a broken or damaged water meter a charge entered on the water ledger card showing the exact cost of removal (if necessary) of the meter and repairs made to same. In the case of a broken or damaged water meter lock, the lock shall be replaced and a charge as specified in the schedule of fees and charges entered on the water ledger card. Should a water meter lock be damaged more than once in a period of six months, a charge as specified in the schedule of fees and charges shall be placed on the water ledger card for each such instance.
(b)
In no event shall water service be reinstated until all charges set forth in this section have been paid in full. These charges are declared to be the responsibility of the owner of the premises served if the same are not paid by the tenant or occupant.
(Code 1976, § 19-50)
Sec. 74-67. - Vacant premises.
Where premises are vacant and the meter does not show any water used, the minimum rate for such meter shall be charged except where the premises are to be vacant for a period of three consecutive months or more and the city water department is so notified in writing.
(Code 1976, § 19-51)
Sec. 74-68. - Ownership and care of meters.
All meters, whether installed on private property or not, shall remain the property of the city. The cost of repairing and maintaining meters shall be borne by the city, except when meters are damaged due to hot water backing into them, or due to carelessness on the part of the consumers, property owners or their agents, when the costs of such repairs will be billed to the property owner and if not paid within 30 days the city will shut off the supply of water and add an amount as specified in the schedule of fees and charges to the amount due, to cover the cost of the cutoff, all of which shall be paid before service is again restored.
(Code 1976, § 19-52)
Sec. 74-69. - Permission to turn water off or on.
No person shall turn on or shut off the water in any of the pipes or mains of the city, without a permit or proper authority from the water department of the city, except licensed plumbers, and then only for the purpose of installing plumbing work or testing same.
(Code 1976, § 19-53)
Secs. 74-70—74-85. - Reserved.
DIVISION 3. - SEWERS

Sec. 74-86. - Definitions.
The following words, terms and phrases, when used in this division, shall have the meanings ascribed to them in this section, except where the context clearly indicates a different meaning:
Commercial user means any person having a business operation and having a sewer facility for use regardless of the manner of the arrangement of the business location thereof within any structure or building. Each separate business shall be considered a separate user of the sewerage system of the city for which a minimum charge as set forth by the terms of this division shall be assessed.
Dwelling unit means living quarters occupied by a single family such as an apartment, duplex unit, separate rooms set aside in a structure, or a single dwelling unit, or any similar living arrangement. For the purpose of establishing a sewer service charge, each dwelling unit shall be considered a customer and charged a minimum bill as set forth by the terms of this division regardless of whether such dwelling unit has a separate connection or is served through a common connection as authorized by section 74-59.
(Code 1976, § 19-60)
Cross reference— Definitions generally, § 1-2.
Sec. 74-87. - Sanitary facilities required.
All buildings or other places in the city where human beings live, are employed or congregate shall be provided with sewered water toilets, if a sewer is accessible to the property or lot upon which such buildings or other places are located; or, if a sewer is not accessible to such building or structure, then the same shall be provided with a water toilet connected to an approved septic tank.
(Code 1976, § 19-61)
Sec. 74-88. - Septic tanks; state regulations adopted.
(a)
There is hereby adopted by the city the code of regulations on the installation of septic tanks published by the state department of natural resources. Such code of regulations is hereby adopted to the same extent as if set out fully in this section, except as the same may be changed, modified and amended as follows: "All drain ditches shall not be less than 18 inches wide, and gravel shall be used instead of cinders."
(b)
It shall be unlawful for any person to install a septic tank until a permit has been issued by the health department of the county. The health department of the county may require such information from the applicant for such permit to assure that no ordinances of the city will be violated by the issuance of such permit.
(Code 1976, § 19-62)
Sec. 74-89. - Permit to connect and location of connections.
(a)
All connections to the city sewerage system shall be made at the place on the property designated by a duly authorized official of the city.
(b)
It shall be unlawful for any person to make any connection to, tap in, repair, add to or otherwise tamper with or change the sewerage system of the city without a permit therefor from the city manager. All work performed under such permit shall be subject to the inspection and approval of the duly authorized official of the city.
(Code 1976, § 19-65)
Sec. 74-90. - Sewerage connection fees.
(a)
The city council shall establish from time to time a schedule of fees for the connection of any premises, dwelling units, consumer users or industrial users to the city sewerage system. A copy of the schedule shall be available for public inspection and maintained for such purposes in city hall.
(b)
All fees set forth in the schedule shall be due and payable when the application for a sewerage connection is submitted to the city or as otherwise provided by the city council.
(Code 1976, § 19-66)
Sec. 74-91. - Compliance with plumbing code; inspection, etc.
All connections to the sewerage system of the city shall be in accordance with the plumbing code of the city. The permit shall be applied for and obtained by the person doing the work before the work is undertaken. All installations leading to the sanitary sewer shall be subject to inspection and final determination as to their adequacy or inadequacy by the director of public works. No person shall install or tap on to the sanitary sewer system prior to having the full and complete authorization of the director of public works prior to covering the lines leading into the sanitary sewer. All such tap-ons shall be done in keeping with the instructions and orders of the director of public works.
(Code 1976, § 19-67)
Sec. 74-92. - Furnishing materials for connections.
The city shall furnish all materials necessary to make such connections to the city sewerage system for the purpose of extending the system from the street to the property line of the premises for which the permit was secured. The permit holder shall be responsible for the cost of all materials necessary to extend the system on the private property and for any additional expansion in the system for which a new permit is required.
(Code 1976, § 19-68)
Sec. 74-93. - Surface water not to drain to sanitary sewer.
No person shall discharge or cause to be discharged any stormwater, surface water, groundwater and roof runoff into any sanitary sewer.
(Code 1976, § 19-70)
Sec. 74-94. - Sewerage rates.
(a)
The city council shall establish from time to time a schedule of residential, commercial and industrial rates for sewerage service. A copy of the schedule shall be available for public inspection and maintained for such purposes in city hall.
(b)
Billings made pursuant to this section shall be in accordance with sections 74-36 and 74-37.
(Code 1976, § 19-71)
Secs. 74-95—74-110. - Reserved.
ARTICLE III. - ASSESSMENTS

Sec. 74-111. - Definitions.
The following words, terms and phrases, when used in this article, shall have the meanings ascribed to them in this section, except where the context clearly indicates a different meaning:
Frontage means that portion of an individual lot, parcel or tract that actually abuts upon a state, county or city street, as measured from property line to property line. However, if the sewer line is located on property which either has no frontage on a state, county or city street, or the length of the sewer line laid in property exceeds two times the frontage of such property, frontage shall mean the actual length of sewer line laid within such property.
(Code 1976, § 19-100)
Cross reference— Definitions generally, § 1-2.
Sec. 74-112. - Lien against property.
The amount of assessments for sewers shall be a lien on abutting property. All property owners who have property in the city hereafter subject to assessment shall be provided written notice, sent by mail to the address listed for his tax bills, notifying the property owner that a sewer line is to be constructed and assessment will be made against his property. Such notice shall be sent at least 30 days prior to construction of the line.
(Code 1976, § 19-101)
Sec. 74-113. - Amounts, right of abutting property owners to connect.
(a)
In all cases where a sewer shall be laid by or under the authority of the city, the cost thereof shall be assessed to the extent authorized by law against the property and estates, respectively, abutting on such sewers, regardless of whether or not the property owner attaches his improvement to the sewer line.
(b)
Each lot or parcel of property abutting on a city sewer shall be assessed according to its frontage. In consideration of the payment of the assessment, the owners of such property and estates shall have the right to connect their drains from their abutting property and estates for the discharge of sewer into the sewer at their own expense.
(c)
Where the owner of a lot or parcel of property which has no city sewer in the street in front of or abutting the lot or parcel is required to or desires to connect to the city system in some other manner, with the approval of the city, the property owner shall pay to the city an amount equal to the most recent sewer assessment rate per frontage foot. This amount shall be paid in addition to any other charges to be made for the cost of installing the sewer connection from the lot or parcel of property to the city sewer system. If a city sewer is thereafter constructed in a street in front of and abutting such lot or parcel of property on which an amount equal to the front footage sewer assessment in effect at the time was paid the city for the privilege of connecting to the sewer system as above, the lot or parcel of property shall be given credit for the frontage so paid and no further assessment will be made against the frontage of the lot or parcel of property for the sewer so constructed.
(Code 1976, § 19-102)
Sec. 74-114. - Mandatory connections.
In all cases where a sewer line is laid by the city, the following property owners shall be required to connect to the system:
(1)
All those property owners who have a lot or parcel which abuts a street in which the sewer line is laid.
(2)
All those property owners who have a lot or parcel in which a sewer line is laid.
(Code 1976, § 19-103)
Sec. 74-115. - Payment for privilege of connecting to sewer when prior assessment was not made.
Where a lot or a parcel of property which has a city sewer in front of or abutting the lot or parcel to which the lot or parcel has never been connected and which no assessment by the city for the cost of the sewer or the use of the city sewer system has been made and the owner desires to connect to the city sewer system, the property owner shall be required to pay to the city an amount equal to the sewer assessment rate per frontage foot then in effect for each frontage foot of the lot or parcel of property so connected for the privilege of connecting the lot or parcel to the city sewer system.
(Code 1976, § 19-104)
Sec. 74-116. - Payment of assessment when sewer is extended in street.
If a sewer has been previously constructed in a street abutting a lot or parcel of land for a distance less than the full length of the side or front of the lot or parcel abutting the street and an assessment has been paid for such sewer, which assessment was based upon less than the entire length of the side or the front of the lot or parcel abutting the street, and the sewer is thereafter extended in the street abutting the lot or parcel, an assessment shall be made against the lot or parcel of land for the additional length of sewer laid in the abutting street based upon the sewer assessment rate then in effect at the time of the construction of the additional length of sewer.
(Code 1976, § 19-105)
Sec. 74-117. - Payment of assessment when pumping required for service.
In cases where residential, apartment, commercial or industrial buildings are constructed at an elevation which is too low to be served by gravity flow into the sewer for which assessment will be made, the owners of the residential, apartment, commercial or industrial buildings shall pay the assessment and when required to connect onto the sewer the owners shall install sewage pumping facilities to make use of the sewer.
(Code 1976, § 19-106)
Sec. 74-118. - Payment of assessment in installments.
Payment of assessment may be made in five installments, to wit: One-fifth in cash within 30 days of the date of the assessment, the balance in four equal annual payments, beginning one year after the initial payment, each payment to be evidenced by a promissory note bearing interest at the rate of 12 percent per annum from the date of the assessment until paid. The promissory notes shall provide that upon a default in payment of any note for a period of 30 days, the city shall have the right to declare the balance due on the assessment to be due and payable. Upon default of payment, the city shall have the right to collect the balance due by suit on the promissory note or notes, or, in lieu thereof, shall have the right to have execution issued against the property for the full balance of the assessment, with interest to date, and proceed to collect as allowed by law.
(Code 1976, § 19-107)
Sec. 74-119. - Deferment of payment of assessment limited; procedure; interest.
Payment of any assessment for sewers shall not be deferred for a longer period than four years. After the expiration of a four-year period, if the assessment has not been paid, execution shall issue and be promptly recorded upon the general execution docket for the amount of the assessment plus interest at 12 percent per annum from the date of the assessment to the date the execution is issued.
(Code 1976, § 19-108)
Sec. 74-120. - Fi. fas.; issuance where transferred assessments over specified age; notice; interest; docketing; collection.
(a)
Issuance, notice. When any of the assessments so transferred are at the time of transfer four years or more old, or thereafter become four years or more old, the city shall issue or cause to be issued fi. fas. for the assessments. However, it shall notify the owner of the property so assessed for sewers by mail at least 20 days prior to the issuance of execution in order to afford the owner an opportunity of paying the assessment and saving further charges thereof. The assessment as described in section 74-119 may be held by the city clerk until the time for the issuance of executions as herein provided.
(b)
Interest. The executions of fi. fas. shall include interest at the rate of 12 percent per annum from the date of the assessment until the date of the issuance of the fi. fas.
(c)
Docketing. It shall be the duty of the city clerk to cause all of the executions to be promptly entered upon the general execution docket of the county.
(d)
Collection. The procedure for the collection of these fi. fas., after they have been issued and recorded, shall be the same as other executions for taxes and public improvements.
(Code 1976, § 19-109)
Sec. 74-121. - Deferment of payment upon affidavit of indigency.
(a)
Any residential property owner may apply to the city for a deferment of payment of an assessment made under this article, subject to the following terms and conditions:
(1)
Deferment of payment of assessment shall be allowed only to those residential property owners who provide satisfactory proof to the city manager by affidavit of indigency declaring that the property owner does not have sufficient funds or reasonable access to sufficient funds with which to pay the assessment in installments as otherwise provided in this article, and that payment of the assessment would cause an undue hardship upon the property owner.
(2)
The affidavit of indigency shall be in a form satisfactory to the city manager to enable him to make a reasonable investigation into the financial status of the property owner.
(3)
The property owner must apply for an indigency deferment within 60 days of the receipt of the notice of assessment, on a form to be provided by the city.
(b)
The city manager shall make a reasonable inquiry into all applications for deferment and render his decision within ten days of such application. Failure to render a decision within such time shall be construed as an approval of the application. The city manager shall grant all such applications which demonstrate to his satisfaction that the applicant does not have sufficient funds or reasonable access to sufficient funds with which to pay the assessment in the installments as otherwise provided in this article and that requiring the applicant to pay the assessment would create an undue hardship. The decision of the city manager shall be final.
(c)
If such an application is approved, the assessment shall attach as a lien upon the property so assessed and payment thereof may be deferred without interest until the applicant transfers legal title to the property to another person or entity. Notwithstanding any other provision hereof, any transfer of legal title as a consequence of the death of the applicant, or his spouse, to any other person related thereto within the first or second degree shall not be considered a transfer of legal title hereunder.
(d)
Final approval of an application for deferral shall be conditioned upon the applicant executing an acknowledgment of lien in a form satisfactory to the city, which form shall be entered into the real estate records of the clerk of the superior court of the county.
(Code 1976, § 19-109.1)
Sec. 74-122. - Report and record of completion of sewer work.
When any sewer construction is completed, for which an assessment lien attached in favor of the city, the completion of the sewer shall be reported immediately to the city manager and he shall cause an entry of that completion to be promptly entered in a book provided for this recorded information, which book shall be made available to the public.
(Code 1976, § 19-110)
Sec. 74-123. - Charges for additional sewer connections.
Whenever it is necessary to install an additional sewer connection in front of any property, the cost thereof shall be paid by the property owner before it is installed.
(Code 1976, § 19-111)
Sec. 74-124. - Charges for extension to property line when sewers are constructed.
Under normal circumstances, the property owner shall be responsible for the construction and maintenance of all those portions of the service line serving his property up to the sewer tap. However, if the city should, for whatever reason, require that such service lines be constructed by the city, charges for such extensions shall be based upon the actual costs, including time and materials incurred by the city in making such connections. The cost of the extensions shall be assessed and collected in the same manner as the cost of sewers is assessed and collected.
(Code 1976, § 19-112)
Sec. 74-125. - Charges for connection to private sewers.
The city may issue permits to connect to any private sewer which is connected to the sewer system of the city and not otherwise provided for upon payment to the city of required fees and charges to be established by the city council from time to time and set forth in the schedule of fees and charges. Payment of charges shall be made before construction or before connection where the sewer is already constructed.
(Code 1976, § 19-113)
Sec. 74-126. - Permits for private sewers not to prevent assessments when public sewer laid.
Any permit for the construction of a private sewer, or for connection therewith, shall be granted and accepted upon the condition that thereafter, when the city constructs a public sewer, the abutting property shall be subject to assessment in the manner provided by the provisions of this Code and other ordinances of the city, without regard to the existence of, or connection with, the private sewer.
(Code 1976, § 19-114)
Sec. 74-127. - Charges for sewers laid by a developer for use of his development.
(a)
Established. Where sewers are laid by a developer for the use of his development, fees shall be collected in accordance with the schedule of fees and charges established by the council from time to time, copies of which shall be kept on file in the office of the city clerk.
(b)
Inspection fees. All sewer work, both storm and sanitary, grading and drainage improvements performed by private contract for private development approved on a permit by the city shall be subject to inspection and inspection fees established by the council.
(Code 1976, § 19-115)
Sec. 74-128. - Charges for connections of property outside the city.
The fee for the connection of property outside the city to sewers coming under the jurisdiction of the city shall be established by the city council and set forth in the schedule of fees and charges.
(Code 1976, § 19-116)
Sec. 74-129. - Exemption of a part of frontage of corner lots.
If a parcel of real property is located on a street corner (i.e., at the intersection of two streets, and having property abutting on two streets), the owner, and real estate thus situated, shall be assessed for sewer as provided by this article for the property abutting on the street in which a sewer is first laid; and when a sewer is laid in the other street, an amount of property as specified in section 74-130, as measured from the corner or intersection of the two streets, shall be exempt from the assessment for the last constructed sewer line.
(Code 1976, § 19-117)
Sec. 74-130. - Amount of exemption from sewer assessment on corner lots.
The amount of frontage exempt from sewer assessment under provisions of section 74-129 shall not exceed 300 feet as measured from the corner or intersection of the two streets in which sewers have been laid. If the property thus exempted from sewer assessment shall subsequently be utilized such that building permits are issued for any building requiring sewer service into the sewer for which exemption was made, the owner of such lot or lots shall pay an amount as specified in section 74-115 for the privilege of connecting to the sewer.
(Code 1976, § 19-118)
Sec. 74-131. - Assessments for installation of storm sewers on privately owned residential property.
(a)
Installations of storm sewers on privately owned residential property will be at the request of the property owner and the cost thereof shall be assessed upon the property and the estates, respectively, contingent upon the owner agreeing to provide appropriate documentation accepting liability for damages as a result of failures of such sewer and holding the city harmless upon such failure.
(b)
Storm sewers will be installed by the city crews or by contract in accordance with specifications for such sewers maintained by the city.
(c)
The total charge to a property owner for a storm sewer and assessed against such property shall include, but not be limited to, the cost of excavation, covering, pipe, labor and fringe benefits, overhead, equipment, materials and handling of materials incurred in the laying and installation of such sewer and appurtenances by the city crews or the contract price if constructed by private contract under these provisions.
(d)
Payment of the installation cost assessed for storm sewers laid on privately owned residential property shall be made by payment in full of the projected construction cost prior to the installation of the sewer, any excess of actual cost to be refunded to the property owner upon final determination.
(e)
Prior to the start of construction, the city shall obtain any temporary and/or permanent easement or easements necessary for the installment or replacement work within the requestee's property. The easement must be provided to the city at no cost by the requestee.
(Code 1976, § 19-119)
