Chapter 26 - CABLE COMMUNICATIONS[1]
Footnotes:
--- (1) ---
Cross reference— Businesses and business regulations, ch. 22; streets and sidewalks, ch. 86; utilities, ch. 98.
State Law reference— Municipalities prohibited from granting franchise for cable television within unincorporated area of county, O.C.G.A. § 36-18-3; avoiding or attempting to avoid charges for use of cable television service, O.C.G.A. § 46-5-2.

ARTICLE I. - IN GENEREAL[2]

Footnotes:
--- (2) ---
Editor's note— Ord. of June 16, 2009, enacted provisions intended for use as Art. II of this chapter. To preserve the style of this Code, and at the discretion of the editor, Art. I has been created.

Sec. 26-1. - Regulation of basic service tier rates and charges.
(a)
The city will follow the Federal Communications Commission's rate regulations in its regulation of the basic service rates and charges of the company, and any other cable television system operating within the city, notwithstanding any different or inconsistent provisions in the franchise.
(b)
In connection with such regulation, the city will ensure a reasonable opportunity for consideration of the views of interested parties.
(c)
In order to enable the city to regulate basic service rates and charges, the city manager or his designee is authorized to execute on behalf of the city and file with the Federal Communications Commission such certification forms or other instruments as required by the Federal Communications Commission's rate regulations.
(Code 1976, § 33½-1)
Sec. 26-2. - Authorized designee.
The (mayor, manager, clerk or other position), shall, on behalf of the city, exercise day-to-day administrative duties necessary to fulfill the regulatory authority of the city under O.C.G.A. § 46-5-1, et seq. and shall perform the following duties:
(a)
Review application information submitted by a telephone company to the city and, if an application is incomplete, notify the telegraph or telephone company within 15 business days of the receipt of such application, identifying in such notice all application deficiencies.
(b)
Report the receipt of a completed application to the council within 60 calendar days of the receipt of such completed application.
(c)
Review payments of due compensation submitted by the company to ensure compliance with the provisions of the amended law and this chapter.
(d)
Provide a coordination function between a telephone company and all city departments on any matter relating to the amended law and this chapter.
(e)
Arrange and evaluate, no more than once a year, a comprehensive review of the records of a company which is reasonably related to the calculation and payment of due compensation.
(f)
Provide to all telegraph and telephone companies located in its rights-of-way written notice of annexations and changes in municipal corporate boundaries.
(Ord. of 6-16-2009)
Secs. 26-3—26-20. - Reserved.
ARTICLE II. - TELEGRAPH AND TELEPHONE COMPANIES

Sec. 26-21. - Due compensation for telephone companies with end user retail customers within the city.
(a)
The city hereby requires due compensation of three percent of actual recurring local service revenues, as defined in paragraphs (8) and (9) of O.C.G.A. § 46-5-1(b); provided, however, that any company which pays in excess of three percent of actual recurring local service revenues pursuant to an existing franchise agreement shall continue to pay in accordance with the agreement until the expiration of the franchise agreement or December 31, 2012, whichever occurs first, and any company which pays in excess of three percent of actual recurring local service revenues in accordance with an occupational license tax arrangement shall continue to pay in accordance with such payment schedule until December 31, 2012.
(b)
Regarding any telephone company that does not have retail, end user customers located within the city's municipal boundaries, the payment by such company to a municipal authority in accordance with the rates set by regulations promulgated by the department of transportation for the use of its rights-of-way shall be considered the payment of due compensation.
(Ord. of 6-16-2009)
