ARTICLE V. - PERSONAL CARE HOME FACILITIES

Sec. 22-241. - Policy.
It shall be the policy of the city to provide for the establishment and regulation of personal care homes for the purpose of providing a safe, healthful and wholesome living environment for nonfamily ambulatory adults as an alternative to nursing homes and other similar institutional environments when such alternative living environments can be provided through the personal, protective care and watchful oversight of responsible supervisory adults.
(Code 1976, § 22½-1)
Sec. 22-242. - Definitions.
The following words, terms and phrases, when used in this article, shall have the meanings ascribed to them in this section, except where the context clearly indicates a different meaning:
Ambulatory adult means a person 18 years of age or older who has the ability to move from place to place by walking, either unaided or aided by a prosthesis, brace, cane, crutches or hand rails, or by propelling a wheelchair, and can perceive an emergency condition, whether caused by fire or otherwise, and escape without human assistance using the normal means of egress.
Commissioner means the commissioner of human resources.
Department means the state department of human resources or its duly authorized representatives.
Manager means the adult persons designated by the board of commissioners as responsible for the day-to-day management, administration and/or supervision of a personal care home. The manager shall be capable of operating the home in accordance with the rules and regulations set forth in this article.
Kitchen facilities means a food preparation and serving facility which includes at least a stove, refrigerator, sink and sufficient cabinets, countertops and areas for storage, preparation and serving of meals and subsequent cleanup.
Permit means authorization granted by the city to any person to operate a personal care home. Such a permit signifies satisfactory compliance with the rules and regulations set forth in this article.
Personal care means protective care and watchful oversight of a resident who needs a watchful environment, but who does not have an illness, injury or disability which requires chronic or convalescent care, including medical and nursing services. For the purpose of this definition, the term "protective care and watchful oversight" includes, but is not limited to, a daily awareness by the management of the resident's functioning, his whereabouts, the making and reminding a resident of appointments for medical checkups, the ability and readiness to intervene if a crisis arises for a resident, supervision in areas of nutrition, medication and actual provision of transient medical care, with a 24-hour responsibility for the well-being of the resident.
Personal care home and home mean a building, or group of buildings, facility or place in which is provided two or more beds and other facilities and services are provided, including rooms, meals and personal care for nonfamily ambulatory adults. For the purpose of this article, personal care homes shall be classified as family personal care homes, group personal care homes or congregate personal care homes. Such term does not include buildings which are devoted to independent living units which include kitchen facilities in which residents have the option of preparing and serving some or all of their own meals or boarding facilities which do not provide personal care.
(1)
Congregate personal care home means a home for adults which offers care to ten or more persons.
(2)
Family personal care home means a home for adults in a family-type residence, noninstitutional in character, which offers care to not more than three persons.
(3)
Group personal care home means a home for adult persons in a residence or other type of building, noninstitutional in character, which offers care to three—ten persons.
Responsible person means the manager or other adult person who is responsible for specified duties in a personal care home.
Sponsor means the sponsor of a resident or applicant for residence in a personal care home. Such person may be a relative, guardian or employee of an official agency responsible for the person's well-being.
(Code 1976, § 22½-2)
Cross reference— Definitions generally, § 1-2.
Sec. 22-243. - Authorization.
Personal care homes, as defined and discussed in this article exclusively, may be established and operated in the city, provided that the establishment and operation of personal care homes is performed in strict compliance with the provisions of this article.
(Code 1976, § 22½-3)
Sec. 22-244. - License required.
No person shall, in any manner, establish and/or operate a personal care home within the city without first obtaining a license from the city. Upon satisfactory review of a license application, the city shall issue a license, which shall remain in effect for a period not to exceed 12 months. Any person operating a personal care home as authorized under a state permit issued prior to the effective date of the ordinance from which this article is derived shall be required to acquire a city license within 30 days of the effective date of the ordinance from which this article is derived and to make whatever modifications are required for the operation of the personal care home to comply with all provisions of this article within six months after the issuance of such license.
(Code 1976, § 22½-4)
Sec. 22-245. - License fee.
The fee for a license required by this article shall be as set forth in the schedule of fees and charges on file in the office of the city clerk.
(Code 1976, § 22½-5)
Sec. 22-246. - Requirements for acceptance of permit application.
The city shall not accept a personal care home license application until such time as the applicant shall provide to the city a copy of a permit issued by the appropriate state agency authorizing the applicant to operate a personal care facility. The license issued by the city shall apply only to the same location, owner, management and conditions set out in the state permit.
(Code 1976, § 22½-6)
Sec. 22-247. - Compliance with state law.
A person licensed by the city to operate a personal care home shall comply at all times with all local, state and federal laws and regulations applicable to the operation of such facility.
(Code 1976, § 22½-7)
Sec. 22-248. - Revocation of license.
Upon a majority rule of the board of commissioners, the city may at any time revoke the license of a person to operate a personal care home after considering the evidence and testimony provided at a duly called public hearing, and determining that the continuation of the personal care home would not be in the best interest of the public due to the failure of management to strictly comply with the provisions of this article.
(Code 1976, § 22½-8)
Sec. 22-249. - Public hearing mandatory.
Within 15 days of the receipt of a bona fide complaint presented by any person to the city regarding a personal care home, it shall be mandatory for the board of commissioners to schedule a public hearing for the purpose of determining the facts and appropriate actions relative to the operation and licensure of the personal care home in question.
(Code 1976, § 22½-9)
Sec. 22-250. - Zoning.
Personal care homes of the types specifically provided for in this section shall be limited exclusively to the following zones within the city:
(1)
Family personal care homes: R-3, P-R and R-4.
(2)
Group personal care homes: R-4 and P-R.
(3)
Congregate personal care homes: C-3.
(Code 1976, § 22½-10)
Secs. 22-251—22-280. - Reserved.
