ARTICLE I. - IN GENERAL

Sec. 22-1. - Garage, stall or yard sales.
(a)
Permit required; fee. Any person desiring to sell personal property of every kind and character, not at their own residence, shall obtain a permit. A permit must be purchased three days prior to sale, pay a fee of $35.00 and must have written permission from said property owner where sale is to be held. Each permit shall be valid for a period of one day only. All of such sales shall be held only at such locations as designated by the city manager.
(1)
Personal property shall mean property which is owned, utilized, and maintained by an individual or members of his or her residence and acquired in the normal course of living in or maintaining a residence. It does not include merchandise which was purchased for resale or obtained on consignment.
(b)
Private individuals. Any person desiring to sell personal property of their own, on their own premises, within the city limits must obtain a permit from the City of Jesup at no charge. No sale shall last more than two consecutive days. No more than one sale of personal property at each residence within a 30-day period.
(c)
Nonprofit or charitable organizations. Any nonprofit or charitable organization shall be issued a permit from the city at no charge. Written permission from property owner must be presented before permit is issued to sell personal items or items produced or otherwise donated by its members or other interested parties.
(d)
End of sale. All merchandise or items associated with any sale shall be removed immediately at the end of sale.
(e)
Penalty. Any person who violate[s] any provision of this [section] shall be subject to the following penalties:
(1)
First violation—A fine of $100.00, or 30 days imprisonment, or both;
(2)
Second violation—A fine of $300.00, or 60 days imprisonment, or both;
(3)
Third and each subsequent violation—A fine of $600.00, or 90 days imprisonment, or both.
(Code 1976, § 28-1; Ord. of 2-2-2010)
Secs. 22-2—22-30. - Reserved.
