Chapter 78 - SEWERS[1]
Footnotes:
--- (1) ---
Cross reference— Buildings and building regulations, ch. 18; environment, ch. 38; floods, ch. 46; historical preservation, ch. 54; planning and zoning, ch. 70; utilities, ch. 98; zoning, app. A; subdivisions, app. B.
State Law reference— Acquisition, construction and operation of water and sewage systems, O.C.G.A. § 36-34-5.

ARTICLE I. - IN GENERAL

Sec. 78-1. - Definitions.
The following words, terms and phrases, when used in this chapter, shall have the meanings ascribed to them in this section, except where the context clearly indicates a different meaning:
BOD (denoting biochemical oxygen demand) means the quantity of oxygen utilized in the biochemical oxidation of organic matter under standard laboratory procedure in five days at 20 degrees Celsius expressed in milligrams per liter.
Building drain means the part of the lowest horizontal piping of a drainage system which receives the discharge from soil, waste and other drainage pipes inside the walls of the building and conveys it to the building sewer, beginning five feet (1.5 meters) outside the inner face of the building wall.
Building sewer means the extension from the building drain to the public sewer or other place of disposal.
Combined sewer means a sewer receiving both surface runoff and sewage.
Food service establishment means any commercial facility discharging kitchen or food preparation wastewaters including restaurants, motels, hotels, cafeterias, hospitals, schools, bars, etc., and any other facility which, in the Commission's opinion, would require a grease trap installation by virtue of its operation. Such definition normally includes any establishment which is required to have a state department of health food service license.
Garbage means solid wastes from the domestic and commercial preparation, cooking and dispensing of food, and from the handling, storage and sale of produce.
Grease trap/grease interceptor means the device which is utilized to effect the separation of grease and oils in wastewater effluents from food service establishments. Such traps or interceptors may be of the underground type normally referred to as large grease interceptors, or in the "under-the-counter" package units normally referred to as a smaller grease trap. However, the words "trap" and "interceptor" are generally used interchangeably.
Industrial waste means the liquid waste from industrial manufacturing processes, trades or businesses as distinct from sanitary sewage.
Natural outlet means any outlet into a watercourse, pond, ditch, lake or other body of surface or groundwater.
pH means the logarithm of the reciprocal of the weight of hydrogen ions in grams per liter of solution.
Properly shredded garbage means the wastes from the preparation, cooking and dispensing of food that have been shredded to such a degree that all particles will be carried freely under the flow conditions normally prevailing in public sewers, with no particle greater than one-half inch (1.27 centimeters) in any dimension.
Public sewer means a sewer in which all owners of abutting properties have equal rights, and is controlled by public authority.
Sanitary sewer means a sewer which carries sewage and to which stormwater, surface water and groundwater are not intentionally admitted.
Sewage means a combination of the water-carried wastes from residences, business buildings, institutions and industrial establishments, together with such groundwater, surface water and stormwater as may be present.
Sewage treatment plant means any arrangement of devices and structures used for treating sewage.
Sewage works means all facilities for collecting, pumping, treating and disposing of sewage.
Sewer means a pipe or conduit for carrying sewage.
Slug means any discharge of water, sewage or industrial waste which, in concentration of any given constituent or in quantity of flow, exceeds for any period of duration longer than 15 minutes or more than five times the average 24-hour concentration of flows during normal operation.
Storm drain and storm sewer mean a sewer which carries stormwater, surface water and drainage, but excludes sewage and industrial wastes, other than unpolluted cooling water.
Suspended solids means solids that are in suspension in water, sewage or other liquids, and which are removable by laboratory filtering.
Watercourse means a channel in which a flow of water occurs, either continuously or intermittently.
(Code 1976, § 29-1; Ord. of 4-17-2001)
Cross reference— Definitions generally, § 1-2.
Sec. 78-2. - Unsanitary disposal of wastes.
It shall be unlawful for any person, for any reason, to place, deposit or permit to be deposited in any unsanitary manner on public or private property within the city or in any area under the jurisdiction of the city, any human or animal excrement, garbage or other objectionable waste.
(Code 1976, § 29-2)
Sec. 78-3. - Discharge of wastes into natural outlet.
It shall be unlawful for any person to discharge into any natural outlet within the city, or in any area under the jurisdiction of the city, any sewage or other polluted waters, except where suitable treatment has been provided in accordance with subsequent provisions of this chapter.
(Code 1976, § 29-3)
Sec. 78-4. - Certain facilities restricted.
Except as otherwise provided in this chapter, it shall be unlawful for any person to construct or maintain any privy, privy vault, septic tank, cesspool or other facility intended or used for the disposal of sewage.
(Code 1976, § 29-4)
Sec. 78-5. - When sewer connection required.
The owners of all houses, buildings or properties used for human occupancy, employment, recreation or other purposes, situated within the city and abutting on any street, alley or right-of-way in which there is located, or may be located, a public sanitary or combined sewer of the city, are hereby required, at their expense, to install suitable toilet facilities within such houses, buildings or properties, and to connect such facilities directly with the proper public sewer in accordance with the provisions of this chapter, within 90 days after the date of official notice to do so, provided that such public sewer is within 100 feet (30.5 meters) of the property line.
(Code 1976, § 29-5)
Sec. 78-6. - Private sewage and wastewater disposal.
(a)
The disposal of sewage by means other than the use of the available sanitary sewage system shall be in accordance with local, county and state law. The disposal of sewage by private disposal systems shall be permissible only in instances where service from the available sanitary sewage system in not available.
(b)
Where a public sanitary or combined sewer is not available under the provisions of section 78-5, the building sewer shall be connected to a private wastewater disposal system complying with the provisions of this section.
(c)
Before commencement of construction of a private wastewater disposal system, the owner shall first obtain a written permit issued by the county health department. The application for such permit shall be made on a form furnished by the county health department, which the applicant shall supplement by any plans, specifications and other information as are deemed necessary by the county health department.
(d)
A permit for a private wastewater disposal system shall not become effective until the installation is completed to the satisfaction of the county health department. The county health department shall be allowed to inspect the work at any stage of construction, and in any event, the applicant for the permit shall notify the health department when the work is ready for final inspection and before any underground portions are covered.
(e)
The type, capacity, location and layout of a private wastewater disposal system shall comply with all recommendations of the state department of public health. No permit shall be issued for any private wastewater disposal system employing subsurface soil absorption facilities where the area of the lot does not meet requirements of the state department of human resources. No septic tank or cesspool shall be permitted to discharge to any natural outlet.
(f)
At such time as a public sewer becomes available to a property served by a private wastewater disposal system, as provided in subsection (e) of this section, a direct connection shall be made to the public sewer, within 60 days, in compliance with this section, and any septic tanks, cesspools and similar private wastewater disposal facilities shall be cleaned of sludge and filled with suitable material.
(g)
The owner shall operate and maintain the private wastewater disposal facilities in a sanitary manner, at all times, at no expense to the city.
(Code 1976, § 29-6)
Sec. 78-7. - Protection from damage; violation.
No unauthorized person shall maliciously, willfully or negligently break, damage, destroy, uncover, deface or tamper with any structure, appurtenance or equipment which is a part of the sewage works. Any person violating this provision shall be subject to immediate arrest under the charge of disorderly conduct.
(Code 1976, § 29-7)
Sec. 78-8. - Dumping waste into sewer system.
(a)
All persons dumping sewage waste into the city sanitary sewer system shall be subject to the following regulations:
(1)
All dumping shall be done on Monday through Sunday, from 7:00 a.m. until 5:00 p.m.
(2)
Dumping of waste shall be done only in the place designated by the city.
(b)
The fees which shall be charged to every person dumping waste into the city sanitary sewer system shall be as set forth in the schedule of fees and charges on file in the office of the city clerk. Such dumping fees shall be in addition to the business and occupation tax for septic tank and cleaning services, where applicable.
(Code 1976, § 29-8(a), (b)(1)—(3))
Sec. 78-9. - Dumping fee tickets.
(a)
Dumping fee tickets will have to be purchased at the city hall and presented to properly designated employees at the city sewage treatment plant prior to any waste dumping into the city sanitary sewer system.
(b)
The city clerk shall have printed tickets for dumping waste into the city sanitary sewer system, and such tickets shall be dated and signed by the city clerk.
(c)
No person shall be allowed to dump waste into the city sewer system without first presenting such ticket to the proper city employees prior to such dumping, and there shall be no credit given for any such dumping of waste into the city sewer system.
(Code 1976, § 29-8(b)(4)—(6))
Secs. 78-10—78-40. - Reserved.
ARTICLE II. - INSPECTIONS

Sec. 78-41. - Right of entry.
The city manager and other duly authorized representatives of the city, bearing proper credentials and identification, shall be permitted to enter all properties for the purposes of inspection, observation, measurement, sampling and testing in accordance with the provisions of this article.
(Code 1976, § 29-20)
Sec. 78-42. - Private property easements.
The city manager and other duly authorized representatives of the city, bearing proper credentials and identification, shall be permitted to enter all private properties through which the city holds a duly negotiated easement for the purposes of, but not limited to, inspection, observation, measurement, sampling, repair and maintenance of any portion of the sewage works lying within such easement. All entry and subsequent work, if any, on such easement shall be done in full accordance with the terms of the duly negotiated easement pertaining to the private property involved.
(Code 1976, § 29-21)
Sec. 78-43. - Limitation of authority.
The city manager or his representatives shall have no authority to inquire into any processes, including metallurgical, chemical, oil, refining, ceramic, paper or other industries, beyond that point having a direct bearing on the kind and source of discharge to the sewers, waterways or facilities for waste treatment.
(Code 1976, § 29-22)
Sec. 78-44. - Observance of safety rules; personal injury or property damage.
While performing the necessary work on private properties referred to in section 78-41, the city manager or duly authorized employees of the city shall observe all safety rules applicable to the premises established by the company, and the company shall be held harmless for injury or death by the city manager or duly authorized representatives, and the city shall indemnify the company against loss or damage to its property by the city manager or its duly authorized representatives and against liability claims and demands for personal injury or property damage asserted against the company and growing out of the gauging and sampling operation, except as may be caused by negligence or failure of the company to maintain safe conditions as required in section 78-128.
(Code 1976, § 29-23)
Sec. 78-45. - Notice to correct violations.
Any person found to be violating any provision of this chapter, except section 78-7, shall be served by the city with written notice stating the nature of the violation and providing a reasonable time limit for the satisfactory correction thereof. Within the period of time stated in such notice, the offender shall permanently cease all violations.
(Code 1976, § 29-24)
Sec. 78-46. - Continued violation beyond time limit for cessation; penalty.
Any person who shall continue any violation beyond the time limit provided for in section 78-45 shall be in violation of this chapter and, upon conviction, shall be fined as provided in section 1-11 for each violation. Each day in which any such violation shall continue shall be deemed a separate offense.
(Code 1976, § 29-25)
Sec. 78-47. - Liability for damages.
Any person violating any of the provisions of this chapter shall become liable to the city for any expense, loss or damage occasioned the city by reason of such violation.
(Code 1976, § 29-26)
Secs. 78-48—78-80. - Reserved.
ARTICLE III. - BUILDING SEWERS AND CONNECTIONS

Sec. 78-81. - Permit required.
No unauthorized person shall uncover, make any connections with or opening into, use, alter or disturb any public sewer, or appurtenance thereof, without first obtaining a written permit from the city manager.
(Code 1976, § 29-38)
Sec. 78-82. - Classification of permits.
There shall be two classes of building sewer permits for:
(1)
Residential and commercial service; and
(2)
Service to establishments producing industrial wastes.
(Code 1976, § 29-39)
Sec. 78-83. - Permit application.
For either classification of permits required by this article, the owner or his agent shall make application on a special form furnished by the city. The permit application shall be supplemented by any plans, specifications or other information considered pertinent in the judgment of the city manager.
(Code 1976, § 29-40)
Sec. 78-84. - Permit and inspection fee.
A permit and inspection fee as set forth in the schedule of fees and charges on file in the office of the city clerk shall be paid to the city at the time the application is filed for a permit as required by this article.
(Code 1976, § 29-41)
Sec. 78-85. - Liability for costs.
All costs and expense incidental to the installation and connection of a building sewer shall be borne by the owner. The owner shall indemnify the city from any loss or damage that may directly or indirectly be occasioned by the installation of the building sewer.
(Code 1976, § 29-42)
Sec. 78-86. - Separate sewer required; exception.
A separate and independent building sewer shall be provided for every building, except where one building stands at the rear of another on an interior lot and no private sewer is available or can be constructed to the rear building through an adjoining alley, court, yard or driveway, in which case, the building sewer from the front building may be extended to the rear building and the whole considered as one building sewer.
(Code 1976, § 29-43)
Sec. 78-87. - Use of old sewers.
Old building sewers may be used in connection with new buildings only when they are found, on examination and test by the city manager, to meet all requirements of this chapter.
(Code 1976, § 29-44)
Sec. 78-88. - Specifications generally.
The size, slope, alignment, materials of construction of a building sewer, and the methods to be used in excavating, placing of the pipe, jointing, testing and backfilling the trench, shall all conform to the requirements of the building and plumbing code or other applicable rules and regulations of the city. In the absence or amplification of code provisions, the materials and procedures set forth in appropriate specifications of the A.S.T.M. and W.P.C.F. Manual of Practice No. 9 shall apply.
(Code 1976, § 29-45)
Sec. 78-89. - Point of discharge.
Whenever possible, the building sewer shall be brought to the building at an elevation below the basement floor. In all buildings in which any building drain is too low to permit gravity flow to the public sewer, sanitary sewage carried by such building drain shall be lifted by an approved means and discharged into the building sewer.
(Code 1976, § 29-46)
Sec. 78-90. - Surface runoff and groundwater connections prohibited.
No person shall make a connection of roof downspouts, exterior foundation drains, areaway drains or other sources of surface runoff or groundwater to a building sewer or building drain which in turn is directly or indirectly connected to a public sanitary sewer.
(Code 1976, § 29-47)
Sec. 78-91. - Performance of work.
The connection of a building sewer into the public sewer shall conform to the requirements of the building and plumbing code or other applicable rules and regulations of the city, or the procedures set forth in appropriate specifications of the A.S.T.M. and the W.P.C.F. Manual of Practice No. 9. All such connections shall be made gastight and watertight. Any deviation from the prescribed procedures and materials must be approved by the city manager before installation.
(Code 1976, § 29-48)
Sec. 78-92. - Notification when ready for inspection; supervision of connection.
The applicant for a building sewer permit shall notify the city manager when the building sewer is ready for inspection and connection to the public sewer. The connection shall be made under the supervision of the city manager or his representative.
(Code 1976, § 29-49)
Sec. 78-93. - Excavations.
All excavations for building sewer installation shall be adequately guarded with barricades and lights so as to protect the public from hazard. Streets, sidewalks, parkways and other public property disturbed in the course of the work shall be restored in a manner satisfactory to the city.
(Code 1976, § 29-50)
Secs. 78-94—78-120. - Reserved.
ARTICLE IV. - USE OF PUBLIC SEWERS

Sec. 78-121. - Discharge of stormwater, surface water, groundwater, etc.
No person shall discharge, or cause to be discharged, any stormwater, surface water, groundwater, roof runoff, subsurface drainage, uncontaminated cooling water or unpolluted industrial process waters to any sanitary sewer.
(Code 1976, § 29-62)
Sec. 78-122. - Use of storm sewers.
Stormwater and all other unpolluted drainage shall be discharged to such sewers as are specifically designated as storm sewers, or to a natural outlet approved by the environmental protection division of the state department of natural resources. Industrial cooling water or unpolluted process waters may be discharged to a storm sewer or natural outlet upon the approval of the environmental protection division of the state department of natural resources.
(Code 1976, § 29-63)
Sec. 78-123. - Prohibited discharge of wastes.
No person shall discharge, or cause to be discharged, any of the following described waters or wastes to any public sewer:
(1)
Any gasoline, benzene, naphtha, fuel oil or other flammable or explosive liquid, solid or gas.
(2)
Any water or waste containing toxic or poisonous solids, liquids or gases in sufficient quantity, either singly or by interaction with other wastes, to injure or interfere with any sewage treatment process, constitute a hazard to humans or animals, create a public nuisance or create any hazard in the receiving waters of the sewage treatment plant.
(3)
Any water or wastewater having a pH lower than 5.0, or having other corrosive properties capable of causing damage or hazard to structures, equipment and personnel of the sewage works.
(4)
Solid or viscous substances in quantities, or of such size, capable of causing obstruction to the flow in sewers, or other interference with the proper operation of the sewage works such as, but not limited to, ashes, cinders, sand, mud, straw, shavings, metal, glass, rags, feathers, tar, plastics, wood, unground garbage, whole blood, paunch manure, hair and fleshings, entrails and paper dishes, cups, milk containers, etc., either whole or ground by garbage grinders.
(Code 1976, § 29-64)
Sec. 78-124. - Certain wastes restricted.
No person shall discharge, or cause to be discharged, the materials, waters or wastes listed in this section, if it appears likely, in the opinion of the city manager, that such materials, waters or wastes can harm either the sewers, sewage treatment process or equipment, have an adverse effect on the receiving stream or can otherwise endanger life, limb, public property or constitute a nuisance. In forming his opinion as to the acceptability of such wastes, the city manager will give consideration to such factors as the quantities of subject wastes in relation to flows and velocities in the sewers, materials of construction of the sewers, nature of the sewage treatment process, capacity of the sewage treatment plant, degree of treatability of wastes in the sewage treatment plant and other pertinent factors. Such prohibited substances are:
(1)
Any liquid or vapor having a temperature higher than 104 degrees Fahrenheit (40 degrees Celsius).
(2)
Any water or waste containing fats, wax, grease or oils, whether emulsified or not, in excess of 100 mg/l or containing substances which may solidify or become viscous at temperatures between 32—150 degrees Fahrenheit (0—65 degrees Celsius).
(3)
Any garbage that has not been properly shredded. The installation and operation of any garbage grinder equipped with a motor of three-fourths horsepower (0.76 hp metric) or greater shall be subject to the review and approval of the city manager.
(4)
Any water or waste containing strong acid, iron pickling wastes or concentrated plating solutions, whether neutralized or not.
(5)
Any water or waste containing iron, chromium, copper, zinc, cyanide and similar objectionable or toxic substances, or wastes exerting an excessive chlorine requirement to such degree that any such material received in the composite sewage at the sewage treatment works exceeds the limits established by the city manager and/or the environmental protection division of the state department of natural resources for such materials.
(6)
Any water or waste containing phenols or other taste-producing or odor-producing substances, in such concentrations exceeding limits which may be established by the city manager, as necessary, after treatment of the composite sewage, to meet the requirements of the state, federal or other public agencies of jurisdiction for such discharge to the receiving waters.
(7)
Any radioactive waste or isotope of such half-life or concentration as may exceed limits established by the city manager in compliance with applicable state or federal regulations.
(8)
Any water or waste having a pH in excess of 9.5.
(9)
Materials which exert or cause:
a.
Unusual concentrations of inert suspended solids or dissolved solids, such as, but not limited to, sodium chloride and sodium sulfate.
b.
Excessive discoloration, such as, but not limited to, dye wastes and vegetable tanning solutions.
c.
Unusual BOD (above 300 mg/l), chemical oxygen demand or chlorine requirement in such quantities as to constitute a significant load on the sewage treatment works.
d.
Unusual volume of flow or concentration of wastes constituting slugs, as defined in section 78-1.
(10)
Waters or wastes containing substances which are not amenable to treatment or reduction by the sewage treatment processes employed, or are amenable to treatment only to such degree that the sewage treatment plant effluent cannot meet the requirements of other agencies having jurisdiction over discharge to the receiving waters.
(11)
Waters or wastes containing suspended solids in excess of 300 mg/l.
(Code 1976, § 29-65)
Sec. 78-125. - Acceptability of restricted wastes.
(a)
If any waters or wastes are discharged, or proposed to be discharged, to the public sewers, which contain the substances or possess the characteristics enumerated in section 78-124, and which, in the judgment of the city manager and/or environmental protection division of the state department of natural resources, may have a deleterious effect upon the sewage works, processes, equipment or receiving waters, or which otherwise create a hazard to life or constitute a public nuisance, the city manager may:
(1)
Reject the wastes;
(2)
Require pretreatment to an acceptable condition for discharge to the public sewers;
(3)
Require control over the quantities and rates of discharge; and/or
(4)
Require payment to cover the added cost of handling and treating the wastes not covered by existing taxes or sewer charges under the provisions of section 78-130.
(b)
If the city manager permits the pretreatment or equalization of waste flows, the design, installation and operation of the plants and equipment shall comply with the pretreatment regulations of the United States Environmental Protection Agency as set forth in 40 CFR 403 of the Federal Register, and shall be subject to the approval and review of the city manager and the environmental protection division of the department of natural resources and subject to the requirements of all applicable codes, ordinances and laws.
(Code 1976, § 29-66)
Sec. 78-126. - Interceptors.
Grease, oil, and sand interceptors shall be provided when, in the opinion of the city manager, they are necessary for the proper handling of liquid wastes containing grease in excessive amounts, or any flammable wastes, sand, or other harmful ingredients; except that such interceptors shall not be required for private living quarters or dwelling units. All food service establishments shall be required to install grease traps or interceptors on connections to the public sewer system. Proof of periodic maintenance, cleaning, and inspection shall be provided to the city manager on a schedule dictated by the size and flow handled by the grease trap/interceptor. A maintenance/inspection log form for documentation of maintenance, cleaning, and inspection shall be provided by the city manager. A city inspector shall also periodically inspect the grease traps/interceptors in accordance with this chapter 78 and file a report with the establishment and the city manager. All the interceptors shall be of a type and capacity approved by the city manager, and shall be located as to be readily and easily accessible for cleaning and inspection
(Code 1976, § 29-67; Ord. of 4-17-2001)
Sec. 78-127. - Maintenance of preliminary treatment facilities.
Where preliminary treatment or flow equalizing facilities are provided for any waters or wastes, they shall be continuously maintained in satisfactory and effective operation by the owner, at his expense.
(Code 1976, § 29-68)
Sec. 78-128. - Control manhole.
When required by the city manager, the owner of any property serviced by a building sewer carrying industrial wastes shall install a suitable control manhole together with such necessary meters and other appurtenances in the building sewer to facilitate observation, sampling and measurement of the wastes. Such manhole, when required, shall be accessibly and safely located, and shall be constructed in accordance with plans approved by the city manager. The manhole shall be installed by the owner, at his expense, and shall be maintained by him so as to be safe and accessible, at all times.
(Code 1976, § 29-69)
Sec. 78-129. - Measurements, tests and analyses.
All measurements, tests and analyses of the characteristics of waters and wastes to which reference is made in this chapter shall be determined in accordance with the latest edition of Standard Methods for the Examination of Water and Wastewater, published by the American Public Health Association and shall be determined at the control manhole provided, or upon suitable samples taken at the control manhole. If no special manhole has been required, the control manhole shall be considered to be the nearest downstream manhole in the public sewer to the point at which the building sewer is connected. Sampling shall be carried out by customarily accepted methods to reflect the effect of constituents upon the sewage works and to determine the existence of hazards to life, limb and property. The particular analyses involved will determine whether a 24-hour composite of all outfalls of a premises is appropriate or whether a grab sample should be taken. Normally, but not always, BOD and suspended solids analyses are obtained from 24-hour composites of all outfalls, whereas pHs are determined from periodic grab samples.
(Code 1976, § 29-70)
Sec. 78-130. - Special arrangements.
No statement contained in this article shall be construed as preventing any special agreement or arrangement between the city and any industrial concern whereby an industrial waste of unusual strength or character may be accepted by the city for treatment, subject to payment therefor by the industrial concern.
(Code 1976, § 29-71)
Secs. 78-131—78-160. - Reserved.
ARTICLE V. - INDUSTRIAL WASTES

Sec. 78-161. - Participating industry to share costs.
For industries desiring to use the wastewater treatment plant, an agreement shall be executed for payment on behalf of the participating industry for its pro rata share of the costs. Such costs shall include the cost of building the plant, including debt service, as well as to provide for operational and maintenance costs on a regular basis.
(Code 1976, § 29-81)
Sec. 78-162. - Formula for establishing charges.
(a)
The following general formula shall be for establishing charges for treating industrial wastes. Such method of cost allocation or derivation of industrial charges is computed by several forms of the generalized formula:
(1)
Charge to industrial users, $/year.
(2)
Average unit cost of transport and treatment chargeable to volume, $/gallon.
(3)
Average unit cost of treatment, chargeable to BOD, $/pound.
(4)
Average unit cost of treatment, including sludge treatment, chargeable to SS, $/pound.
(5)
Volume of wastewater from industrial users, gallon/year.
(6)
Weight of BOD from industrial users, pound/year.
(7)
Weight of SS from industrial users, pound/year.
(b)
Any of the units set forth in subsection (a) of this section may include charges (surcharges) for concentrated wastes above an established minimum based on normal load criteria.
(Code 1976, § 29-82)
Sec. 78-163. - Method of payment.
The formula as set forth in section 78-162 deals with annual amounts based on information as supplied from bid data, industrial estimates, etc., for the purpose of maintaining a cash flow to cover the cost of operation. Such estimate is to be made in 12 equal installments, based on the figures of the preceding year, as adjusted, to allow for increases in operational and maintenance costs.
(Code 1976, § 29-83)
