Chapter 102 - VEGETATION[1]
Footnotes:
--- (1) ---
Cross reference— Buildings and building regulations, ch. 18; environment, ch. 38; weeds, rubbish, brush, trash, etc., § 38-31; manufactured homes, ch. 62; planning and zoning, ch. 70; streets and sidewalks, ch. 86; zoning, app. A; subdivisions, app. B.

ARTICLE I. - IN GENERAL

Secs. 102-1—102-30. - Reserved.
ARTICLE II. - PARK AND TREE DEPARTMENT

Sec. 102-31. - Established.
A park and tree department is hereby established as a part of the departmental organization of the city.
(Code 1976, § 2-121)
Sec. 102-32. - Department head.
The park and tree department shall be under the direction of the director of public works who shall be appointed by, and be responsible to, the city manager.
(Code 1976, § 2-122)
Secs. 102-33—102-60. - Reserved.
ARTICLE III. - TREE BOARD

Sec. 102-61. - Purpose.
The purpose of this article is to promote and protect the public health, safety and general welfare by providing for the regulation of the planting, maintenance and removal of trees, shrubs and vines within the city.
(Code 1976, § 2-134)
Sec. 102-62. - Creation; appointment; membership; staggered terms; meetings.
(a)
The city tree board shall be composed of seven members. Each commissioner from each commission district will appoint one member, totaling six members, and the mayor will appoint one additional member, to comprise the seven-member board. The appointed members shall be registered voters of the city. No member of the tree board shall be persons who hold elected public office in the city or Wayne County, Georgia. Appointments to the tree board shall be for overlapping terms of three years with terms expiring on December 31. With the exception of those appointments addressed in subsection (b) of this section, the regular initial appointments to the tree board which first occur after the passage of this section (which such initial appointments shall occur after the expiration of the current terms of the members of the tree board expire) shall be made so that the terms of said members shall be staggered. In order to establish staggered terms, the initial terms of two members shall be one year, and the initial terms of another two members will be two years, and the initial terms of another three members will be for three years. The members serving the one-year terms, the two-year terms, and the three-year terms shall be determined by agreement of the board of commissioners of the city and mayor or by lot in the absence of such agreement. If at the end of any term of office of a member, a successor thereto shall not have been appointed, then the member whose term of office shall have expired shall continue to hold office until his or her successor shall be so appointed. Any vacancy in the tree board shall be filled by appointment by the commissioner or mayor who made the original appointment to the tree board that is then vacant. In the event of the absence or vacancy of the commissioner or mayor who made such original appointment to the tree board, any such vacancy in the tree board shall be appointed by an affirmative majority vote of the remaining commissioners and the mayor. Members of the tree board can serve successive terms without limit. The members of the tree board shall receive no compensation for their services, and shall at all times maintain a current mailing address and telephone number on file with the city.
(b)
Following the passage of this section, the board of commissioners will make any additional appointments to such board necessitated by the increase in the number of the members of such board under this section by a majority vote of the commissioners and mayor.
(c)
The board of commissioners of the city shall be authorized to remove any member for cause after written notice and public hearing. Any one or more of the following shall constitute a reason for removing a member "for cause":
(1)
Participating as a member of the tree board at any regular or called meeting of the tree board under the influence of intoxicants, alcohol, or unprescribed or illegal drugs or using, possessing or selling the same in violation of the laws of the State of Georgia;
(2)
Charge and accusation for a misdemeanor which would adversely affect performance of his or her duties as a member of the tree board;
(3)
Conduct unbecoming of a member of the tree board, including, but not limited to, demeaning conduct or use of profanity or vulgar language during any open public meeting of the tree board;
(4)
Indictment of a felony;
(5)
Unauthorized use of city property, city telephones or other city communication equipment;
(6)
Filing false expense reports;
(7)
Three consecutive absences from tree board meetings without obtaining prior approval of a majority of the remaining members of the tree board; or
(8)
Repeated and continued discourteous treatment of members of the public during tree board meetings after being admonished concerning such conduct by the board of commissioners of the city.
Charges for "removable for cause" may be made by any city commissioner, any member of the tree board or by any citizen of the city. Any such charges must be made in writing, dated, signed and delivered to the board of commissioners of the city. A copy of any such charge must be mailed to the person making the charge to the member of the tree board against whom the charge is directed. Upon receipt of any such charge the board of commissioners of the city will then set a date and time for a public hearing. The city manager will notify both the party making the charge and the member of the tree board against whom the charges are directed of the date, time and place of the public hearing. The member of the tree board against whom charges are made shall have at least two weeks notice prior to the date set for the public hearing to prepare for the public hearing. In the event, after the public hearing, the board of commissioners of the city, by majority vote, removes the member of the tree board, the board of commissioners of the city will then proceed to fill the vacancy for the unexpired term pursuant to the foregoing provisions of this section.
(d)
Ex officio members shall be: (1) one member of the board of commissioners of the city as selected by the mayor, (2) the city employee responsible for planting, maintenance and removal of trees, shrubs and vines on city property (presently the superintendent of streets and sanitation or his or her representative), and (3) the Wayne County, Georgia Forester.
(e)
During the first month after being appointed after the passage of this section, and at the first meeting after July 1 of each year, the tree board shall elect: (1) a chairman, (2) a vice-chairman and (3) a secretary-treasurer from among its appointed members.
(f)
The tree board shall meet at least once during each quarter of the year during January, April, July and October. Additional meetings may be held as requested by the chairman. A quorum shall consist of three appointed members. If the chairman or vice-chairman is not present, the members present, by majority vote, shall designate one of the members to serve as acting chairman for that meeting.
(g)
During June of each year, the tree board shall submit a report on its activities during the past year to the board of commissioners of the city.
(Code 1976, § 2-135; Ord. No. 2017-006, § 1, 2-7-2017)
Editor's note— Ord. No. 2017-006, § 1, adopted Feb. 7, 2017, changed the title of § 102-62 from "Created; membership; compensation; term of office; officers; meetings; activities report" to read as herein set out.
Sec. 102-63. - Powers and authority.
The tree board created in this article shall have the power and authority to:
(1)
Determine the needs of the city for the planting, maintenance and removal of trees, shrubs and vines on city property.
(2)
Formulate a tree ordinance which will specify rules and regulations pertaining to trees, shrubs and vines as needed by the board in the performance of its duties, subject to approval by the board of commissioners.
(3)
Investigate the presence of hazardous or diseased trees, shrubs and vines on private property which may be a threat to the public safety or the trees and shrubs on nearby properties.
(4)
Specify requirements for persons engaged in the business of planting, maintenance and removal of trees within the city.
(5)
Prepare rules for the landscaping and removal and planting of trees and shrubs in new housing subdivisions and commercial property developments.
(6)
Offer recommendations for tree, shrub and vine plantings and maintenance on private property.
(7)
Submit to the board of commissioners for approval all rules, regulations, standards, specifications and requirements, and all revisions thereto, as prepared and recommended by the board.
(8)
Review all requests for variances from the approved rules, standards, specifications and requirements, and make recommendations to the board of commissioners pertaining thereto.
(9)
Report to the city manager and/or board of commissioners regarding its findings and recommendations.
(Code 1976, § 2-136)
Secs. 102-64—102-90. - Reserved.
ARTICLE IV. - TREES

Sec. 102-91. - Intent.
The intent of this article is to establish regulations for trees, shrubs and vines in the public areas of the city in order to better control problems with flooding, soil conservation, air pollution and noise within the city, and to make the city a healthier, safer and more beautiful place in which to live.
(Code 1976, § 20-110)
Sec. 102-92. - Definitions.
The following words, terms and phrases, when used in this article, shall have the meanings ascribed to them in this section, except where the context clearly indicates a different meaning:
Crown spread means the distance measured across the greatest diameter of a plant.
Park trees means either evergreen or deciduous trees, shrubs or vines on land designated as public park land owned by the city, or land to which the public has free access as a park.
Shade trees means any self-supporting woody plant of a species that is well-shaped, well-branched and well-foliated, which normally grows to an overall height of at least 35 feet and normally develops an average mature crown spread greater than 30 feet within the city.
Street trees means either evergreen or deciduous trees, shrubs or vines on land lying between the public right-of-way and private property lines on either side of all streets, avenues or ways within the city.
(Code 1976, § 20-111)
Cross reference— Definitions generally, § 1-2.
Sec. 102-93. - Inventory.
A listing of street, park, shade and small trees approved by the tree board for planting shall be maintained by the office of the city manager.
(Code 1976, § 20-112)
Sec. 102-94. - Planting distance from street corners and fireplugs.
(a)
No street tree shall be planted closer than 30 feet to any street corner, measured from the point of nearest intersecting curbs or curblines. However, shrubs maintained less than three feet in height are acceptable.
(b)
No street tree shall be planted closer than ten feet to any fireplug.
(Code 1976, § 20-113)
Sec. 102-95. - Planting distance from utilities.
No street tree, other than the species listed as small trees in this article, may be planted under or within ten lateral feet of any overhead utility wire, or over or within five lateral feet of any underground water line, sewer line, power line or other utility.
(Code 1976, § 20-114)
Sec. 102-96. - Public tree care; right to remove unsafe trees.
(a)
The city shall have the right to plant, prune, maintain and remove trees, plants, shrubs and vines within the lines of streets, alleys, avenues, lanes, squares and public grounds, as may be necessary, to ensure public safety and preserve or enhance the symmetry and beauty of such public grounds.
(b)
The city shall have the right to remove, or cause or order to be removed, any tree, or part thereof, which is in an unsafe condition, or which, by reason of its nature, is injurious to sewers, electrical power lines, gas lines, water lines or other public improvements or is affected with any injurious fungus, insect or other pest.
(Code 1976, § 20-115)
Sec. 102-97. - Topping; exemptions.
(a)
It shall be unlawful, as a normal practice, for any person, firm or city department to top any street tree, park tree or other tree on public property. For the purposes of this section, the term "topping" means the severe cutting back of limbs to stubs larger than three inches in diameter within the tree's crown to such a degree so as to remove the normal canopy and disfigure the tree.
(b)
Trees severely damaged by storms or other causes, or certain trees under utility wires where other pruning practices are impractical, shall be exempt from this section.
(Code 1976, § 20-116)
Sec. 102-98. - Pruning.
(a)
Every owner of any tree overhanging any street or right-of-way within the city shall prune the branches of such tree so that the branches shall not obstruct the light from any streetlamp or the view of any street intersection, and so that there shall be a clear space of eight feet above the surface of the street or sidewalk. Such owners shall remove all dead, diseased or dangerous trees, or broken or decayed limbs, which constitute a menace to the safety of the public.
(b)
The city shall have the right to prune any tree or shrub on private property when it interferes with the proper spread of light along the street from a streetlight or visibility of any traffic control device or sign.
(Code 1976, § 20-117)
Sec. 102-99. - Dead or diseased tree removal on private property.
The city shall have the right to cause the removal of any dead or diseased tree on private property within the city when such tree constitutes a hazard to life and property or harbors insects or disease which constitutes a potential threat to other trees within the city. Whenever the city tree board determines that such a dead or diseased tree exists within the city, they shall notify the property owner in writing, giving such owner 60 days' notice from the date of service to have such tree removed. Failure of the owner to comply with such provisions or order of the city tree board to remove such tree shall constitute a violation of this article, which shall be punishable as defined in section 1-11. The city shall also have the authority to remove such tree and place a lien on the property in the same manner as for taxes in order to cover the cost of such removal.
(Code 1976, § 20-118)
Sec. 102-100. - Stump removal.
All street and park tree stumps shall be removed below the surface of the ground so that the top of the stump shall not project above the surface of the ground.
(Code 1976, § 20-119)
Sec. 102-101. - Interference with city.
It shall be unlawful for any person to prevent, delay or interfere with the city or any of its agents while engaging in and about the planting, cultivating, mulching, pruning, spraying or removing of any street tree, park tree or tree on private grounds, as authorized in this article.
(Code 1976, § 20-120)
Sec. 102-102. - Violation; penalty.
Any person violating any provision of this article shall, upon conviction, be subject to punishment as provided in section 1-11.
(Code 1976, § 20-121)
