Chapter 4 - ANIMALS[1]

Sec. 4-1. - Livestock regulation.
(a)
Term defined. The term "livestock" means all animals of the equine, bovine, or swine class, including goats, sheep, mules, horses, hogs, cattle, and other grazing animals.
(b)
Livestock prohibited; exception. It shall be unlawful for any person to keep within the city any livestock; except under the following conditions:
(1)
Any housing or enclosure used by such animals or fowl shall be well drained, free from accumulations of animal excrement and objectionable odors, and otherwise clean and sanitary. Animal excrement shall be disposed of in a manner approved by health officer, animal control officer, or the city council.
(2)
Livestock must have adequate space provided, no less than one acre of land.
(3)
Animals and fowl shall be kept at minimum distances deemed reasonable and necessary by the health officer, animal control officer, or the city council.
(4)
All animals or fowl, except dogs in areas where confinement of dogs under the rabies control regulations does not apply.
(5)
In the case of bona fide licensed pet shops, veterinary hospitals, stockyards, poultry houses and similar commercial establishments, the health officer, animal control officer, or the city council may modify the requirements of this section where undue hardship would result from their strict enforcement.
(c)
Impoundment; penalty. Provided any of said livestock shall be found to be illegally kept within the city, notification shall be made to the livestock's owner, and this owner shall be ordered to correct his violation of said livestock ordinance. Any livestock found running at large shall be impounded. The owner of the livestock thus impounded shall be summoned to municipal court, and in order to regain his livestock, the owner shall be subject to a fine set by the council from time to time. This fine may also be imposed on the owner if his livestock shall be found to be kept within the city in violation of said livestock ordinance.
(Prior Code, § 31-101)
Sec. 4-2. - Dog control.
(a)
Rabies inoculation tag required by state law. All dog owners within the city must abide by the rabies inoculation tag requirements pursuant to state law.
(b)
Dogs as nuisances; penalties.
(1)
The mayor, city council or code enforcer, upon formal complaint by any citizen concerning a dog, shall conduct an investigation to determine whether said dog constitutes a nuisance.
(2)
Standards upon which the mayor and council may deem that a dog constitutes a nuisance shall include, but not be limited to, the following:
a.
Molests passersby or passing vehicles;
b.
Attacks other animals;
c.
Trespasses on school grounds, recreational areas or parks;
d.
Is repeatedly at large;
e.
Damages private or public property;
f.
Barks, whines or howls in an excessive, continuous or untimely fashion; or
g.
Constitutes a nuisance as the term is defined by the state law.
(3)
If the mayor, city council or code enforcer determines that a dog does constitute a nuisance, the owner of said dog shall be so notified and shall be given a reasonable period of time during which to correct those conditions constituting the nuisance. Failure to correct said nuisance within a period of time considered reasonable by the mayor and council shall be punishable as prescribed in section 1-9.
(4)
An exception to the prohibition in this section shall be permitted for hunting dogs, which will be allowed to run in wooded areas where permitted by the owner of the property, during hunting season, as established by federal and/or state laws and regulations. All hunting dogs shall bear tags containing the owner's name, address and phone number, and shall be vaccinated in accordance with state rabies shot regulations. All hunting dogs used in hunting games shall be properly supervised.
(c)
General restraint requirements.
(1)
The owner of any animal shall keep such animal in a condition of restraint to prevent such animal from being at large. An animal is under restraint within the meaning of this section if it is:
a.
Controlled by a leash;
b.
On or within a vehicle being driven or parked on the streets, provided the animal must be confined within any open vehicle by leash; or
c.
Confined on the owner's property at all times as defined by state law.
(2)
No animal shall be confined on the owner's premises by a leash less than ten feet in length, except by a leash which is a free running line. The length of the leash shall not be long enough to allow the animal to leave the premises of the owner. The term "free running line" means one which is attached or is secured by a swivel or other device which will turn and remain free running when wrapped around some object.
(Prior Code, § 31-102; Prior Ord., § 31-102)
State Law reference— Control of rabies, O.C.G.A. § 31-19-1 et seq.; inoculation of animals against rabies, O.C.G.A. § 31-19-5.
