Chapter 10 - FIRE PREVENTION AND PROTECTION[1]

Sec. 10-1. - Adoption of National Fire Prevention Code.
There is hereby adopted by the mayor and city council, for the purpose of prescribing regulations governing conditions hazardous to life and property from fire or explosion, that certain code known as the NFPA 101, 2000 edition, Life Safety Code, thereof and the whole thereof, except for such portions as may be hereinafter deleted, modified or amended, of which code not less than one copy has been and now is filed in the office of the city clerk, and the same is adopted and incorporated as fully as if set out at length herein, and from the date on which this section shall take effect, the provisions thereof shall be controlling within the corporate limits of the city.
(Prior Code, § 10-101)
Sec. 10-2. - Definitions of terms used in code.
(a)
Wherever the term "chief of the bureau of fire prevention" is used in the Fire Prevention Code, it shall be held to mean the chief of the fire department of the city, and whenever the term "bureau of fire prevention" is used in such code, it shall be held to mean the fire department of the city.
(b)
Wherever the term "corporation counsel" is used in the Fire Prevention Code, it shall be held to mean the city attorney.
(c)
Wherever the term "municipality" is used in the Fire Prevention Code, it shall be held to mean this city.
(Prior Code, § 10-102)
Sec. 10-3. - Penalties.
Any person who shall violate any of the provisions of the Fire Prevention Code or fail to comply therewith, or who shall violate or fail to comply with any order made thereunder, shall for each such failure or violation or noncompliance be punished according to the general penalties described in section 1-9.
(Prior Code, § 10-106)
Sec. 10-4. - Enforcement.
The Fire Prevention Code adopted herein shall be enforced by the fire chief and such subordinate officers and firefighters of the fire department as are required to effectuate the provisions of said code.
(Prior Code, § 10-104)
Sec. 10-5. - Power to make modifications.
The chief of the fire department shall be authorized to modify any of the provisions of the Fire Prevention Code upon application in writing by the owner or lessee of any property, or his duly authorized agent, when there are practical difficulties in the way of carrying out the strict letter of the code, provided that the spirit of the code shall be observed and the public safety secured. The particulars of such modification when granted or allowed and the decision of the fire chief thereon shall be entered upon the records of the department, and a signed copy shall be forwarded to the applicant.
(Prior Code, § 10-105)
