Chapter 58 - TAXATION[1]
Footnotes:
--- (1) ---
Cross reference— Any resolution or ordinance promising or guaranteeing the payment of money for the county or authorizing the issuance of any bonds of the county or any evidence of the county's indebtedness saved from repeal; any resolution or ordinance providing for local improvements and assessing taxes for such improvements saved from repeal, § 1-14(9); any resolution or ordinance levying or imposing taxes not included in this Code saved from repeal, § 1-14(14); administration, ch. 2; finance, § 2-91 et seq.; excise taxes for beverage dealers, § 6-101 et seq.
State Law reference— The Zoning Procedures Law, O.C.G.A. § 36-66-1 et seq.; taxation power of municipal and county governments, Ga. Const. art. IX, § IV, ¶ I.

ARTICLE I. - IN GENERAL

Sec. 58-1. - Due date for taxes.
November 15 shall be the due date in the county for all state or county taxes for all purposes contemplated by O.C.G.A. § 48-5-150.
(Res. of 6-3-1986)
Sec. 58-2. - Interest on unpaid taxes.
All taxes due the state or the county, as provided in O.C.G.A. § 48-5-150, remaining unpaid on November 15 in each year in the county shall bear interest at the rate specified in O.C.G.A. § 48-2-40 from November 15.
(Res. of 6-3-1986)
Sec. 58-3. - Acceptance of checks, money orders.
The county tax commissioner is authorized to receive personal, company, certified, treasurer's or cashier's checks or bank, postal or express money orders in payment of taxes and license fees.
(Res. of 7-2-1985(2))
Sec. 58-4. - [Post-issuance compliance policies and procedures for governmental tax-exempt bonds.]
(a)
Incorporation of tax closing documents. This section shall be deemed to include and hereby incorporates all covenants, certificates, instructions and information reporting documentation contained in the closing transcript or record of proceedings for any series of tax-exempt bonds, whether executed in connection with the issuance of any such series of obligations or executed post closing, (the "tax closing documentation") for each issue of tax-exempt bonds of the issuer.
(b)
Assignment of responsibility. The issuer hereby assigns the responsibility for post-issuance compliance set forth in this section to the issuer's finance director. Such officer is hereby designated the post-issuance compliance officer ("PICO"). Some or all of the responsibilities of the PICO may be assigned by the issuer to another officer or employee of the issuer (the "authorized representatives").
(c)
Tax documentation and retention. The PICO will assemble and document to his or her satisfaction the location of all tax closing documentation for each issue of tax-exempt bonds of the issuer. All tax closing documentation accumulated for each series of tax-exempt bonds shall be maintained for a period of three years following the final maturity of the tax-exempt bonds.
(d)
IRS correspondence and audits. The PICO will consult with qualified bond counsel immediately upon receipt of any correspondence from, or opening of an examination of any type with respect to tax-exempt bonds of the issuer by, the IRS.
(e)
Periodic review requirements. The PICO will review the implementation of the PICPP set forth in this section with the issuer at least annually during the term of any outstanding series of tax-exempt bonds.
(f)
Training requirements. The PICO will develop a training program that is designed to inform any successor PICO of the requirements of the PICPP and periodically train all the authorized representatives of their duties under the PICPP. Such training program may be developed with internal materials and shall include a review of the Code and the IRS's website established for the use of the tax-exempt bond community located at http://www.irs.gov/taxexemptbond/index.html?navmenu=menul.
(g)
Continuing disclosure obligation. In connection with the issuance of each series of tax-exempt bonds, the issuer may be obligated to execute a continuing disclosure certificate (the "disclosure certificate"). If the issuer is obligated to execute a disclosure certificate, the PICO shall be responsible for annual compliance with such disclosure certificate or shall be responsible for hiring a dissemination agent (as defined in the disclosure certificate) to comply with such annual disclosure obligations.
(h)
Approval and adoption. The issuer hereby approves and adopts the PICPP set forth in this section.
(i)
Time is of the essence. The issuer hereby authorizes and directs the PICO and any designated authorized representatives to take such actions deemed necessary, appropriate or desirable to effect the implementation of the PICPP set forth in this section immediately.
(Res. of 11-6-2012, §§ 1—9)
Editor's note— A resolution adopted Nov. 6, 2012, §§ 1—9, did not specify manner of inclusion; hence, codification as § 58-4 was at the discretion of the editor.
Secs. 58-5—58-30. - Reserved.
ARTICLE II. - OCCUPATION TAXES

Sec. 58-31. - Definitions.
The following words, terms and phrases, when used in this article, shall have the meanings ascribed to them in this section, except where the context clearly indicates a different meaning:
Administrative fee means a component of an occupation tax which approximates the reasonable cost of handling and processing the occupation tax.
Location of office does not include a temporary work site which serves a single customer or project.
Occupation tax means a tax levied on persons for engaging in an occupation, profession, or business for revenue raising purposes.
Person includes sole proprietors, corporations, partnerships, nonprofits, or any other form of business organization, but specifically excludes charitable nonprofit organizations which utilize at least 50 percent of their proceeds for charitable purposes.
Practitioner of profession or occupation is one who, by state law, requires state licensure regulating such profession or occupation, but shall not include a practitioner who is an employee of a business, if the business pays an occupation tax.
Regulatory fees means payments, whether designated as license fees, permit fees, or by another name, which are required by a local government as an exercise of its police power and as a part of or an aid to regulation of an occupation, profession, or business. The amount of a regulatory fee shall approximate the reasonable cost of the actual regulatory activity performed by the county. A regulatory fee may not include an administrative fee. Development impact fees as defined by O.C.G.A. § 36-71-2(8) or other costs or conditions of zoning or land development are not regulatory fees.
(Ord. of 11-1-1994(2), § 2)
Cross reference— Definitions generally, § 1-4.
Sec. 58-32. - Penalty for violation.
Any person violating any provision of this article shall, upon conviction before the county magistrate, be fined as provided in section 1-19.
(Ord. of 11-1-1994(2), § 15)
Sec. 58-33. - Levy of tax.
(a)
An occupation tax shall be levied upon those businesses and practitioners of professions and occupations with one or more locations or offices in the unincorporated portion of the county and upon the applicable out-of-state businesses with no location or office in the state, pursuant to O.C.G.A. § 48-13-7, based upon the number of employees of the business or practitioner.
(b)
The tax rate shall be determined by the number of employees for each business, trade, profession, or occupation and shall be as set forth in the schedule of fees and charges on file in the office of the county clerk.
(Ord. of 11-1-1994(2), § 4)
Sec. 58-34. - When occupation tax due and payable.
The amount of occupation tax due under this article shall be payable to the county on January 1 each year and shall be delinquent if not paid on or before April 1 each year.
(Ord. of 11-1-1994(2), § 18)
Sec. 58-35. - Required.
Each person engaged in any business, trade, profession, or occupation in the unincorporated portion of the county, whether with a location in the county, or in the case of an out-of-state business with no location in the state exerting substantial efforts within the state as set out in O.C.G.A. § 48-13-7, shall pay an occupation tax for such business, trade, profession, or occupation; which tax and any applicable registration shall be displayed in a conspicuous place in the place of business, if the taxpayer has a permanent business location in the county. If the taxpayer has no permanent business location in the county, such business tax registration shall be shown to the county code enforcement officer or his deputies or to any law enforcement officer of the county upon request.
(Ord. of 11-1-1994(2), § 2)
Sec. 58-36. - Duration, due date of tax.
(a)
Each occupation tax levied under this article shall be for the calendar year and succeeding years thereafter unless otherwise specifically provided. The registration and occupation tax shall be payable by January 1 of each year and shall, if not paid by April 1 each year, be subject to penalties for delinquency as prescribed in this article. On any new profession, trade, or calling begun in the county after April 1, 1995, or succeeding years thereafter, the registration and tax shall be delinquent if not obtained immediately upon beginning business, and a penalty of ten percent of the amount due or $50.00, whichever is greater, shall be imposed. The tax registration shall be issued by the code enforcement officer and if any person whose duty it is to obtain a registration shall, after such registration or occupation tax becomes delinquent, transact or offer to transact, in the county, any of the kind of profession, trade, or calling subject to this article without having first obtained such registration, such offender shall, upon conviction by the county magistrate, be punished as provided in section 1-19.
(b)
At the time of payment of the tax provided for in this article, each person liable for such tax shall make a sworn statement as to the number of persons employed by the taxpayer.
(c)
In addition to the remedies in subsections (a) and (b) of this section, the county may proceed to collect in the same manner as provided by law for tax executions.
(Ord. of 11-1-1994(2), § 10)
Sec. 58-37. - Purpose and scope of tax.
The occupation tax levied in this article is for revenue purposes only and is not for regulatory purposes, nor is the payment of the tax made a condition precedent to the practice of any such profession, trade, or calling. The occupation tax only applies to those businesses and occupations which are covered by the provisions of O.C.G.A. §§ 48-13-5—48-13-26. All other applicable businesses and occupations may be taxed by the county pursuant to the pertinent general or local laws, ordinances and the provisions of this Code.
(Ord. of 11-1-1994(2), § 9)
Sec. 58-38. - Administrative fee structure.
A nonprorated, nonrefundable administrative fee as set forth in the schedule of fees and charges on file in the office of the county clerk shall be required on all business and occupation tax accounts for the initial start-up, annual renewal, or reopening of those accounts.
(Ord. of 11-1-1994(2), § 3)
Cross reference— Administration, ch. 2.
Sec. 58-39. - Exempt businesses.
The following businesses are not covered by the provisions of this article, but may be assessed an occupation tax or other type of tax pursuant to the provisions of other general laws of the state or by local law:
(1)
Those businesses regulated by the state public service commission.
(2)
Those electrical service businesses organized under O.C.G.A. § 46-3-1 et seq.
(3)
Any farm operation for the production from or on the land of agricultural products, but not including agribusiness.
(4)
Cooperative marketing associations governed by O.C.G.A. § 2-10-105.
(5)
Insurance companies governed by O.C.G.A. § 33-8-8 et seq.
(6)
Motor common carriers governed by O.C.G.A. § 46-7-15.
(7)
Those businesses governed by O.C.G.A. § 48-5-355 (businesses that purchase carload lots of guano, meats, meal, flour, bran, cottonseed, or cottonseed meal and hulls).
(8)
Agricultural products and livestock raised in the state governed by O.C.G.A. § 48-5-356.
(9)
Depository financial institutions governed by O.C.G.A. § 48-6-93.
(10)
Facilities operated by a charitable trust governed by O.C.G.A. § 48-13-55.
(Ord. of 11-1-1994(2), § 17)
Sec. 58-40. - Enforcement.
It is the duty of the code enforcement officer to see that the provisions of this article relating to occupation taxes are observed and to summon all violators of the same to appear before the court. It is made the further duty of the code enforcement officer to inspect all registrations issued as often as in his judgment it may seem necessary to determine whether the registration held is proper.
(Ord. of 11-1-1994(2), § 23)
Sec. 58-41. - Code enforcement officer's subpoena and arrest powers.
The code enforcement officer shall have full subpoena and citation powers in conjunction with any violation pertaining to this article.
(Ord. of 11-1-1994(2), § 16)
Sec. 58-42. - Payment of occupation tax by newly established businesses.
In the case of a business subject to occupation tax for a calendar year, which was not conducted for any period of time in the unincorporated portion of the county in the preceding year, the owner, proprietor, manager, or executive officer of the business liable for occupation tax shall estimate the number of employees from the commencing date to the end of the year.
(Ord. of 11-1-1994(2), § 19)
Sec. 58-43. - Paying tax of out-of-state business.
Registration and assessment of an occupation tax is imposed on those businesses and practitioners of professions with no location or office in the state if the business's largest dollar volume of business in the state is in the unincorporated portion of the county and the business or practitioner:
(1)
Has one or more employees or agents who exert substantial efforts within the county for the purpose of soliciting business or serving customers or clients; or
(2)
Owns personal or real property which generates income and which is located within the unincorporated portion of the county.
(Ord. of 11-1-1994(2), § 5)
Sec. 58-44. - Multiple businesses separately taxed.
Where a person conducts business at more than one fixed location, each location or place shall be considered a separate business for the purpose of the occupation tax levied under this article.
(Ord. of 11-1-1994(2), § 6)
Sec. 58-45. - Professionals.
Practitioners of professions as described in O.C.G.A. § 48-13-9(c)(1)—(18) shall elect as their entire occupation tax one of the following:
(1)
The occupation tax based on number of employees.
(2)
A per-practitioner fee as set forth in the schedule of fees and charges on file in the office of the county clerk shall be paid at the practitioner's office or location. The per-practitioner fee applies to each person in the business who qualifies as a practitioner under the state's regulatory guidelines and framework.
(3)
This election is to be made on an annual basis and must be done by April 1 of each year.
(Ord. of 11-1-1994(2), § 7)
Sec. 58-46. - Practitioners exclusively practicing for a government.
Any practitioner whose office is maintained by and who is employed in practice exclusively by the United States, the state, a municipality or county of the state, instrumentalities of the United States, the state, or a municipality or county of the state shall not be required to obtain a license or pay an occupation tax for that practice.
(Ord. of 11-1-1994(2), § 8)
Sec. 58-47. - Evidence of state registration required if applicable.
Each person who is licensed by the secretary of state pursuant to O.C.G.A. § 43-1-1 et seq., shall provide evidence of proper and current state licensure before the county registration may be issued.
(Ord. of 11-1-1994(2), § 11)
Sec. 58-48. - Evidence of qualification required if applicable.
Any business required to obtain health permits, bonds, certificates of qualification, certificates of competency, or any other regulatory matter shall first, before the issuance of a county business registration, show evidence that such requirements have been met.
(Ord. of 11-1-1994(2), § 12)
Sec. 58-49. - Liability of officers and agents.
All persons subject to the occupation tax pursuant to this article shall be required to obtain the necessary registration for such business as described in this article, and in default thereof the officer or agent soliciting for or representing such persons shall be subject to the same penalty as other persons who fail to obtain a registration. Every person commencing business in the county after January 1 of each year shall likewise obtain the registration provided for in this article before commencing the business; and any person transacting, or offering to transact in the county, any of the kinds of business, trade, profession, or occupation without first having so obtained such registration, shall be subject to penalties provided for the violation of this article.
(Ord. of 11-1-1994(2), § 13)
Sec. 58-50. - Registration and delinquency.
(a)
Each such registration shall be for the year in which the registration was obtained. There is imposed a penalty upon each business which fails to apply for and obtain an appropriate business registration and pay all taxes and fees as provided in this article before April 1 of each year. Every person commencing business in the county after January 1 of each year shall obtain the registration required before commencing such business. Any person transacting or offering to transact in the county any business, trade, profession, or occupation without first having obtained such registration shall be subject to the penalties provided in section 58-32. Such penalties shall be in addition to all other penalties, civil and criminal, provided for the violation of this article; and shall have the same lien and priority as the occupation tax to which the penalty is applied.
(b)
The registration provided for in this section shall be issued by the code enforcement officer and, if any person whose duty it is to obtain a registration shall, after such occupation tax becomes delinquent, transact or offer to transact, in the county any of the kind of business, trade, profession, or occupation without having first obtained such registration, such offender shall be subject to the penalties provided for the violation of this article.
(Ord. of 11-1-1994(2), § 14)
Sec. 58-51. - Lien taken for delinquent occupation tax.
In addition to the other remedies provided in this article for the collection of the occupation tax levied by this article, the code enforcement officer, upon any tax or installment of such tax becoming delinquent and remaining unpaid, shall issue execution for the correct amount of such tax against the persons liable for such tax, which shall bear interest at the rate of 12 percent per annum from the date when such tax or installment becomes delinquent, and the lien shall cover the property of the person liable for such tax, all as provided by the law. The lien of such occupation tax shall become fixed on and date from the time when such tax or any installment thereof becomes delinquent. The execution shall be levied by the sheriff upon the property of the defendant located in the county, and sufficient property shall be advertised and sold to pay the amount of such execution, with interest and costs. All other proceedings in relation thereto shall be had as is provided by law, and the defendant in such execution shall have rights of defense, by affidavit of illegality and otherwise, which are provided by the applicable laws in regard to tax executions. When a nulla bona entry has been entered by proper authority upon an execution issued by the code enforcement officer against any person defaulting on the occupation tax, the person against whom the entry was made shall not be allowed or entitled to have or collect any fees or charges whatsoever for services rendered after the entry of the nulla bona. If, at any time after the entry of nulla bona has been made, the person against whom the execution issues pays the tax in full, together with all interest and costs accrued on the tax, the person may collect any fees and charges due him as though he had never defaulted in the payment of the taxes.
(Ord. of 11-1-1994(2), § 20)
Sec. 58-52. - Amendment and repeal.
This article shall be subject to amendment or repeal, in whole or in part, at any time, and no such amendment or repeal shall be construed to deny the right of the county to assess and collect any of the taxes or other charges prescribed. The payment of any occupation tax provided for in this article shall not be construed as prohibiting the levy or collection by the jurisdiction of additional occupation taxes upon the same person, property, or business.
(Ord. of 11-1-1994(2), § 21)
Sec. 58-53. - Public hearing before tax increase.
After January 1, 1996, the board of commissioners shall conduct at least one public hearing before adopting any ordinance or resolution which will increase the rate of occupation tax as set forth in this article.
(Ord. of 11-1-1994(2), § 25)
Secs. 58-54—58-90. - Reserved.
ARTICLE III. - INSURERS[2]

Footnotes:
--- (2) ---
State Law reference— General assembly authorized to provide for taxation of insurance companies based on gross direct premiums received from insurance policies within the unincorporated areas of counties, Ga. Const. art. IX, § IV, ¶ T(c).

Sec. 58-91. - License fee—Additional locations generally.
There is levied an annual license fee, as set forth in the schedule of fees and charges, upon every insurance company engaging in the business of insurance within the county; and there is levied an additional annual license fee in such amount for each separate business location in excess of one operated and maintained by any such company within the corporate limits.
State Law reference— Local tax on life insurance companies, O.C.G.A. § 33-8-8.1.
Sec. 58-92. - Same—Businesses lending money or offering term financing of sales; taking insurance applications.
There is levied an additional license fee, as set forth in the schedule of fees and charges, on each insurance company for each separate business location not otherwise subject to a license fee under section 58-91, which company is operated and maintained by a business organization which is engaged in the business of lending money or transacting sales involving term financing and which, in connection with the loans or sales involving term financing, offers, solicits, or takes applications for insurance through a licensed agent of the insurance company for insurance.
State Law reference— Local tax on other than life insurance companies, O.C.G.A. § 33-8-8.2.
Sec. 58-93. - Same—Additional locations of independent agencies and brokers.
There is levied an annual license fee upon independent agencies and brokers for each separate business location from which a life insurance business is conducted and which is not subject to the company license fee imposed by either section 58-91 or section 58-92, in the amount set forth in the schedule of fees and charges for each such location within the county.
Sec. 58-94. - Gross direct premiums tax—Levied.
There is levied an annual tax based solely upon gross direct premiums upon each insurer writing life, accident and sickness insurance within the county in an amount equal to one percent of the gross direct premiums received during the calendar year in accordance with O.C.G.A. § 33-8-8.1. The expression "gross direct premiums," as used in this section, shall mean gross direct premiums as used in O.C.G.A. § 33-8-4. The premium tax levied by this section is in addition to the license fees imposed by sections 58-91 and 58-92.
Sec. 58-95. - Same—Classes of insurance other than life, accident and sickness.
There is levied an annual tax upon each insurer, other than an insurer transacting business in the class of insurance designated in O.C.G.A. § 33-3-5(1), doing business as provided in O.C.G.A. § 33-8-8.2, in an amount equal to two percent of the gross direct premiums received during the calendar year, in accordance with O.C.G.A. § 33-8-8.2. The expression "gross direct premiums," as used in this section, shall mean gross direct premiums as used in O.C.G.A. § 33-8-8.2(a).
Sec. 58-96. - Due date for license fees.
License fees imposed in this article shall be due and payable February 1 of each year.
Secs. 58-97—58-130. - Reserved.
ARTICLE IV. - FINANCIAL INSTITUTIONS[3]

Footnotes:
--- (3) ---
State Law reference— Local depository financial institutions business license tax, O.C.G.A. § 48-6-93.

Sec. 58-131. - Definitions.
The following words, terms and phrases, when used in this article, shall have the meanings ascribed to them in this section, except where the context clearly indicates a different meaning:
Depository financial institution means state and national banks, state building and loan associations, and federal savings and loan associations.
Gross receipts has the same meaning as is ascribed to the term "gross receipts" for each such depository financial institution in O.C.G.A. § 48-6-93.
(Res. of 11-1-1983, § 1)
Cross reference— Definitions generally, § 1-4.
Sec. 58-132. - Tax levied.
(a)
Pursuant to the authority contained in O.C.G.A. § 48-6-93, there is levied for each year, upon each state and national bank, each federal savings and loan association, and each state building and loan association located in the county, not exempted by state law, an annual business license tax at the rate of 0.25 percent of the gross receipts of each such institution, or $1,000.00, per annum, whichever amount is greater.
(b)
The taxes levied by subsection (a) of this section for each year shall be levied on the amount of gross receipts received by each such depository financial institution during the immediately preceding calendar year.
(Res. of 11-1-1983, §§ 1, 2)
Sec. 58-133. - Returns.
Each depository financial institution subject to the tax levied by this article shall file with the county not later than March 1 of each year a return of its gross receipts received by it during the immediately preceding calendar year. The returns shall be made in the manner and in the form prescribed by the commissioner of the department of banking and shall be based on the allocation method set forth in O.C.G.A. § 48-6-93(d). The tax levied pursuant to this article shall be assessed and collected based upon the information provided in the return.
(Res. of 11-1-1983, § 3)
Sec. 58-134. - When taxes due and payable.
The taxes levied by this article shall be due and payable on April 1 of each year.
(Res. of 11-1-1983, § 4)
Secs. 58-135—58-160. - Reserved.
ARTICLE V. - HOTEL-MOTEL EXCISE TAX[4]

Footnotes:
--- (4) ---
Editor's note— An Ordinance adopted October 6, 2020(1) , § I, repealed the former art. V, §§ 58-161—58-174, and enacted a new art. V as set out herein. The former art. V pertained to tax on rooms, lodgings and accommodations and derived from an Ord. adopted July 3, 2007, arts. 1—14; Res. of 01-08-2019(1) , Exh. A.

Sec. 58-161. - Article name.
The Hotel-Motel Excise Tax Ordinance of Oconee County.
(Ord. of 10-6-2020(1) , § I)
Sec. 58-162. - Intent, purpose, and authorization to levy excise tax.
(a)
The intent of this ordinance is to levy an excise tax on rooms, lodgings, and accommodations to provide additional funding for the promotion of tourism, conventions, and trade shows in Oconee County, Georgia.
(b)
The purpose of this ordinance is to enact an excise tax upon the furnishing for value to the public of any room or rooms, lodgings or accommodations furnished by any person or legal entity licensed by or required to pay business or occupational taxes to the county for operating within the special district a hotel, motel, inn, lodge, tourist camp, tourist cabin, rental cabin or any other place in which rooms, lodgings, or accommodations are regularly furnished for value.
(c)
This excise tax shall be imposed under the authorization of House Bill 706 of the 2020 Regular Session of the Georgia General Assembly, pursuant to O.C.G.A. § 48-13-51(b).
(Ord. of 10-6-2020(1) , § II)
Sec. 58-163. - Definitions.
The following terms, for the purposes of this ordinance, shall be defined as follows:
County. The territorial limits of Oconee County, Georgia, under the governing authority of the county commission.
County clerk. The duly appointed county clerk, or designee.
County administrator. The duly appointed county administrator, or designee.
Destination marketing organization. A private sector nonprofit organization or other private entity which is exempt from federal income tax under Section 501(c)(6) of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986 that is supported by the tax under this article, government budget allocations, private membership, or any combination thereof and the primary responsibilities of which are to encourage travelers to visit their destinations, encourage meetings and expositions in the area, and provide visitor assistance and support as needed (O.C.G.A. § 48-13-50.2(1))
Due date. The twentieth day after the close of monthly period for which tax is to be computed. (O.C.G.A. § 48-13-53.2(a))
Estimated tax liability. The lodging provider's prospective tax liability based upon the average monthly tax remittance in the prior fiscal year, as adjusted for change in tax rate or substantial change in circumstances due to damage to the hotel. (O.C.G.A. § 48-13-53.2(b))
Finance director. The duly appointed administrator of finances for Oconee County, Georgia.
Folio. The primary documentation produced by a hotel or other facility that demonstrates interaction between the operator and the occupant, and which, at a minimum, reflects the name and address given by the occupant, the date(s) of occupancy, the amount of rent charged for each date together with the amounts of applicable excise tax(es), and the method(s) of payment.
Guest room. Accommodations occupied, or intended, arranged, or designated for transient occupancy of not more than 30 continuous days (O.C.G.A. § 48-13-51(h)(4)), by one or more occupants for the purpose of living quarters or residential use.
Hotel. Includes any hotel, motel, inn, lodge, tourist camp, tourist cabin, campground, or any other place in which rooms, lodgings, or accommodations are regularly furnished for value and shall apply to the furnishing for value of any room, lodging, or accommodation. (O.C.G.A. § 48-13-51(a)(1)(B)(i)).
Innkeeper/lodging provider/operator. Any person who is subject to taxation under this article for the furnishing for value to the public any rooms, lodgings, or accommodations. (O.C.G.A. § 48-13-50.2(2)).
Monthly period. Any calendar month of any year.
Occupancy. The use or possession, or the right to use or possession, of any room or apartment in a hotel or motel, or the right to use or possession of the furnishings or to the services and accommodations accompanying the use and possession of the room or apartment.
Occupant. Any person (or persons utilizing as a single unit) who, for a consideration, uses, possesses, or has the right to use or possess, any room or hotel or motel under any lease, concession, permit, right of access, license, agreement or otherwise.
Permanent resident. Any occupant who as of a given date shall have occupied, or has or shall have the right of occupancy, of any guest room in a hotel for more than 30 consecutive days.
Person. An individual, firm partnership, joint venture, association, social club, fraternal organization, joint stock company, corporation, nonprofit corporation or cooperative nonprofit membership, estate, trust, business trust receiver, trustee, syndicate, business entity, or any other group or combination acting as a unit, to include the plural as well as the singular number, excepting, however, the United States of America, the State of Georgia, and any political subdivision of either thereof upon which the governing authority of the county is without power to impose the tax herein provided.
Private sector non-profit organization. A chamber of commerce, a convention and visitors bureau, a regional travel association, or any other private group organized for similar purposes which is exempt from federal income tax under Section 501(c)(6) of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986; provided, however, that a county or municipality which has prior to April 1, 1990, contracted for a required expenditure under this Code section with a private group which is exempt from federal income tax under provisions of Section 501(c) of the Internal Revenue Code other than Section 501(c)(6) may continue to contract for required expenditures with such a private group. (O.C.G.A. § 48-13-50.2(3))
Promoting tourism, conventions, and trade shows. Planning, conducting, or participating in programs of information and publicity designed to attract or advertise tourism, conventions, or trade shows (O.C.G.A. § 48-13-50.2(4)).
Rent. The consideration received for occupancy valued in money, whether received in money or otherwise, including all receipts, cash, credits, and property or services of any kind or nature, and also the amount for which credit is allowed by the lodging provider to the occupant, without any deduction therefrom whatsoever.
State authority. An authority created by state law which serves a state-wide function, including, but not limited to, the Georgia Agricultural Exposition Authority, Georgia Aviation Authority, Georgia Building Authority, Georgia Development Authority, Georgia Environmental Finance Authority, Jekyll Island Authority, Lake Allatoona Preservation Authority, Georgia Medical Center Authority, Georgia Ports Authority, Georgia Regional Transportation Authority, State Road and Tollway Authority, Sports Hall of Fame Authority, Georgia Technology Authority, and Georgia World Congress Center Authority, but shall not mean an authority created for support of a local government or a local purpose or function and shall not include authorities such as area planning and development commissions and any organizational entities they may create, regional commissions and any organizational entities they may create, or local water and sewer authorities. (O.C.G.A. § 48-13-50.2(5)).
Tax. The excise tax of six percent on occupants imposed by this ordinance, as provided for by O.C.G.A. § 48-13-51(b).
Tax administrator. The individual appointed by the board, or the individual of any office of the county government which may in the future be designated as the administrative entity to collect, administer, and complete required annual reporting of the tax.
Tourism product development. the expenditure of funds for the creation or expansion of physical attractions which are available and open to the public and which improve destination appeal to visitors, support visitors' experience, and are used by visitors. Such expenditures may include capital costs and operating expenses. Tourism product development may include: (a) lodging for the public for no longer than 30 consecutive days to the same customer; (b) overnight or short-term sites for recreational vehicles, trailers, campers, or tents; (c) meeting, convention, exhibit, and public assembly facilities; (d) sports stadiums, arenas, and complexes; (e) golf courses associated with a resort development that are open to the general public on a contract or fee basis; (f) racing facilities, including dragstrips, motorcycle racetracks, and auto or stock car racetracks or speedways; (g) amusement centers, amusement parks, theme parks, or amusement piers; (h) hunting preserves, trapping preserves, or fishing preserves or lakes; (i) visitor information and welcome centers; (j) wayfinding signage; (k) permanent, nonmigrating carnivals or fairs; (l) airplanes, helicopters, buses, vans, or boats for excursions or sightseeing; (m) boat rentals, boat party fishing services, rowboat or canoe rentals, horse shows, natural wonder attractions, picnic grounds, river-rafting services, scenic railroads for amusement, aerial tramways, rodeos, water slides, or wave pools; (n) museums, planetariums, art galleries, botanical gardens, aquariums, or zoological gardens; (o) parks, trails, and other recreational facilities; or (p) performing arts facilities. (O.C.G.A. § 48-13-50.2(6)).
(Ord. of 10-6-2020(1) , § III)
Sec. 58-163. - Tax rate.
There is hereby set and levied on the occupant of a guest room of any hotel/motel/cabin/residence/lodge located within the special district a tax in the amount of six percent of the gross rent for such occupancy.
(Ord. of 10-6-2020(1) , § IV)
Sec. 58-165. - Effective date.
This article shall take effect on the 1 st day of January, 2021.
(Ord. of 10-6-2020(1) , § V)
Sec. 58-166. - Exemptions.
In accordance with O.C.G.A. § 48-13-51(h), the tax imposed by this ordinance shall not apply to (1) charges made for any rooms, lodgings, or accommodations provided to any persons who certify that they are staying in such room, lodging, or accommodation as a result of the destruction of their home or residence by fire or other casualty; (2) the use of meeting rooms and other such facilities or any rooms, lodgings, or accommodations provided without charge; (3) any rooms, lodgings, or accommodations furnished for a period of one or more days for use by Georgia state or local governmental officials or employees when traveling on official business. Notwithstanding the availability of any other means of identifying the person as a state or local government official or employee, whenever a person pays for any rooms, lodgings, or accommodations with a state or local government credit or debit card, such rooms, lodgings, or accommodations shall be deemed to have been furnished for use by a Georgia state or local government official or employee traveling on official business for purposes of the exemption provided by this paragraph. For purpose of the exemption provided under this paragraph, a local government official or employee shall include officials or employees of counties, municipalities, consolidated governments, or county or independent school districts; or (4) charges made for continuous use of any rooms, lodgings, or accommodations after the first 30 days of continuous occupancy. (O.C.G.A. § 48-13-51(h)).
(Ord. of 10-6-2020(1) , § VI)
Sec. 58-167. - Use of revenue.
(a)
Pursuant to O.C.G.A. § 48-13-51(b)(5)(A), an amount equal to not less than 50 percent of the total amount of taxes collected that exceed the amount of taxes that would be collected at the rate of five percent shall be expended for promoting tourism, conventions, and trade shows by the destination marketing organization, as defined in section 58-163 of this article, designated by the board; and
(b)
Pursuant to O.C.G.A. § 48-13-51(b)(5)(B), the remaining amount of taxes collected that exceed the amount of taxes that would be collected at the rate of five percent which are not otherwise expended under section 58-167(a) of this article shall be expended for tourism product development, as defined in section 58-163 of this article; and
(c)
Pursuant to O.C.G.A. § 48-13-51(a)(3), the amount of taxes that would be collected at the rate of five percent, as referenced in section 58-167(a) and (b) of this article, an amount equal to the amount by which the total taxes collected under this Code section exceed the taxes which would be collected at a rate of three percent for the purpose of promoting tourism, conventions, and trade shows. Amounts so expended shall be expended only through a contract or contracts with the state, a department of state government, a state authority, a convention and visitors bureau authority created by local Act of the General Assembly for a municipality, or a private sector nonprofit organization, or through a contract or contracts with some combination of such entities.
(Ord. of 10-6-2020(1) , § VII)
