Chapter 50 - ROADS[1]
Footnotes:
--- (1) ---
Cross reference— Any resolution or ordinance dedicating, naming, establishing, locating, relocating, opening, widening, paving, etc., any street or public way in the county saved from repeal, § 1-14(6); any resolution or ordinance providing for local improvements and assessing taxes therefor saved from repeal, § 1-14(9); any resolution or ordinance establishing or prescribing street grades in the county saved from repeal, § 1-14(15); buildings and building regulations, ch. 14; environment, ch. 26; manufactured homes and trailers, ch. 34; parks and recreation, ch. 42; planning, ch. 46; utilities, ch. 66.
State Law reference— Governmental authorization for construction or maintenance of any private road unlawful, O.C.G.A. § 32-1-8; state, county and municipal road systems, O.C.G.A. § 32-4-1 et seq.; county road systems, O.C.G.A. § 32-4-40 et seq.; regulation of maintenance and use of public roads generally, O.C.G.A. § 32-6-1 et seq.; power to construct and maintain roads, including curbs, sidewalks, street lights and devices to control the flow of traffic, Ga. Const. art. IX, § II, ¶ III(a)(4).

ARTICLE I. - IN GENERAL

Secs. 50-1—50-29. - Reserved.
ARTICLE II. - RESERVED[2]

Footnotes:
--- (2) ---
Editor's note— Article II, §§ 50-30—50-35, which pertained to driveways, has been removed from the Oconee County Code of Ordinances; however, the user's attention is directed to the Unified Development Code where similar provisions have been incorporated. The former art. II derived from an ordinance adopted Oct. 3, 1989, and an ordinance adopted Jan. 8, 2002.

Secs. 50-30—50-70. - Reserved.
ARTICLE III. - GRADING AND DRAINAGE
DIVISION 1. - GENERALLY

Sec. 50-71. - Definitions.
The following words, terms and phrases, when used in this article, shall have the meanings ascribed to them in this section, except where the context clearly indicates a different meaning:
Basement means a space having half or more of its floor-to-ceiling height below the average level of the adjoining ground and with a floor-to-ceiling height of not less than 6½ feet.
Building means any structure having a roof supported by columns or walls and intended for shelter, housing, or enclosure of persons, animals or chattels.
Driveway grade means the grade of the centerline of driveway measured at its steepest point.
Dwelling means any building or portion thereof which is designed for or used for residential purposes.
Easement means a grant by a property owner of the use of land for a specific purpose or purposes by the general public, or a corporation or a certain person or persons.
Gradient means slope.
Gradient formula means D = G×L/100 where D is vertical difference in elevation in feet; L is horizontal distance in feet; and G is slope or gradient expressed as a percent.
Infiltration means the use of pervious surfaces to allow rainfall to soak into the ground on site.
Intensity refers to the rate at which rain is falling at any given instant during the life of a rainfall event expressed in inches per hour.
Lot is defined in the county zoning regulations.
Lot lines means the lines bounding a lot.
Office means the county inspection department.
On-site means the individual property within its property lines except for the provision of streets for vehicular access, and essential services and facilities at the site.
Open space means a yard area which is not used for or occupied by a driveway, off-street parking, loading space, drying yard or refuse storage space.
Owner means any individual, firm, association, syndicate, partnership, corporation, trust, or any other legal entity having sufficient proprietary interest in the site.
Parcel means a general term including all plots of and with separate identification on the official tax appraisal maps. Parcels may or may not be lots, depending upon whether or not such parcels are created as provided in this article.
Principal use means the primary purpose for which land or a building is used.
Public utilities means water, gas, sanitary, and storm sewer, electrical, and communications lines and facilities, and improved drainage facilities.
Required means mandatory.
Return frequency refers to statistically expected time interval between recurrences of a storm of an equal or greater intensity for a given duration.
Right-of-way means access over or across particularly described property for a specific purpose or purposes.
Right-of-way line means the dividing line between a lot, tract or parcel of land and a contiguous right-of-way.
Sidewalk means that portion of on-site development that provides access through the site to the dwelling unit and includes walkways.
Street means a public or private thoroughfare which affords the principal means of access to abutting property.
Structure means anything constructed or erected, the use of which requires a location on the ground.
Surface water means the surface drainage of water, its management, control, transportation, storage, and disposal.
Swale means a shallow lineal depression with a parabolic cross section and gently sloped sides.
Variance means a modification of the literal provisions of this article when strict enforcement would cause undue hardship owing to conditions of the individual property on which the variance is sought.
Yard means a space on the same lot with a main building, such space being open, unoccupied and unobstructed by buildings or structures from ground to sky except where encroachments and accessory buildings are expressly permitted.
(Ord. of 11-6-1990(4), § 401)
Cross reference— Definitions generally, § 1-4.
Sec. 50-72. - Jurisdiction.
This article controls the grading and the drainage to be established thereby during the development of any portion of real property within the unincorporated portions of the county.
(Ord. of 11-6-1990(4), § 301)
Sec. 50-73. - Enforcement.
In case of any violation or attempted violation of the provisions of this article, the county may institute any appropriate action or proceeding to prevent such violation or attempted violation including injunctive relief, and the county building inspector is authorized to issue citations for violations hereof.
(Ord. of 11-6-1990(4), § 1301)
Sec. 50-74. - General principles.
(a)
Drainage of surface water should be provided away from all sides of all buildings and off the lot in a manner that will:
(1)
Minimize the possibility of dampness in basements and crawl spaces;
(2)
Prevent adverse supporting soil behavior;
(3)
Prevent soil erosion; and
(4)
Prevent standing or ponding of water on site.
(b)
Walks, driveways, retaining walls and other improvements should be constructed so as not to interfere with drainage. Required walks should not be used as drainage channels. Site grading and drainage should:
(1)
Provide suitable access from the abutting street to the dwelling and any accessory buildings;
(2)
Provide immediate diversion of water away from buildings and off the site;
(3)
Avoid concentrating runoff onto neighboring properties where erosion or other damage may be caused;
(4)
Provide usable outdoor space for occupants; and
(5)
Minimize erosion.
(c)
The Georgia Erosion and Sedimentation Act of 1975, O.C.G.A. § 12-7-1 et seq., as amended, where applicable, shall apply.
(Ord. of 11-6-1990(4), §§ 501, 502)
Sec. 50-75. - Access to dwellings.
(a)
Each dwelling under this article shall have safe and convenient pedestrian access from the street to the dwelling.
(b)
Each dwelling shall have convenient access for service and the provision of utilities.
(Ord. of 11-6-1990(4), § 801)
Sec. 50-76. - Groundwater hazards.
Buildings, structures, paved areas, driveways, and utilities shall be located on a site under this article in such a way as to reasonably minimize groundwater hazards.
(Ord. of 11-6-1990(4), § 901)
Sec. 50-77. - Drainage and flood hazard exposure.
(a)
The minimum grades at buildings and at openings into basements shall be at elevations which prevent adverse effects by water or water entering basements from flood levels.
(b)
Protection shall be equivalent to a 50-year return frequency after full development. The floor elevations of all habitable space shall be above runoff and flood levels equivalent to a 100-year return frequency after full development and as specified in appendix A of this Code.
(Ord. of 11-6-1990(4), § 1001)
Cross reference— Environment, ch. 26.
Sec. 50-78. - Special conditions.
When special conditions exist or arise during construction which were unforeseen and which necessitate precautionary or hazard mitigating measures, the inspection office shall require corrective work to mitigate potential adverse effects from the special conditions as may be necessary. Special conditions include rock formations, unstable soils or slopes, high ground water levels, springs, or other conditions which may adversely effect a property. It shall be the property owner's responsibility to assure proper design, construction and satisfactory performance where such are present.
(Ord. of 11-6-1990(4), § 1101)
Sec. 50-79. - Variances.
Variances from the requirements of this article may be granted by the inspection office upon the submission of such information as may be required by it. Any person aggrieved by the decision of the inspection office may appeal such decision to the board of commissioners.
(Ord. of 11-6-1990(4), § 1201)
Secs. 50-80—50-100. - Reserved.
DIVISION 2. - FINISHED GRADING

Sec. 50-101. - Generally.
All unpaved lot areas, except those preserved in an appropriate natural condition, should be fine graded to provide smooth even surfaces conforming to the elevations specified in this division. All debris should be removed prior to fine grading.
(Ord. of 11-6-1990(4), § 601)
Sec. 50-102. - Minimum protective slope.
All walls and foundations of buildings and any water-supply well should be provided with protective slopes to assure immediate drainage and diversion of surface water away from these structures and off the site.
(Ord. of 11-6-1990(4), § 602)
Sec. 50-103. - Minimum specifications.
Finish grading should:
(1)
Provide a minimum fall of six inches away from the structure in ten feet, except as restricted by side lot lines or other major considerations, without regard to soil type or ground frost conditions. The horizontal length of such slopes may be reduced as necessary at building corners and side yards.
(2)
Provide at least six inches in 25 feet (two percent gradient) in all other unpaved areas, subject to ground frost, expansive soils, or collapsible soils, or at least three inches in 25 feet (one percent gradient) in unpaved areas not subject to such conditions.
(3)
If minimum slopes cannot be attained, paved gutters or other drainage structures may be installed as required by the inspection office.
(4)
All unpaved areas should slope continuously at the gradients listed in subsection (2) of this section to lower elevations off site, or to a drainage structure on the lot.
(5)
Drainage swales or valleys formed by intersecting slopes should have adequate depth, width and longitudinal gradient to carry away the maximum predictable volume of stormwater runoff based on a 100-year return frequency. In no instance shall swales be positioned over sewage infiltration fields.
a.
Gradients of unpaved swales should not be less than required in subsection (2) of this section for other unpaved areas.
b.
Surface erosion protection should be in place to prevent accumulation of water in critical drainage swales.
(6)
Where catchbasins or inlets are installed, other than at required basements areaways, finish grade elevations of adjoining areas should provide for emergency surface overflow so that, in the event of failure of catchbasins or inlets, buildings and window wells (or areaways) will be protected against flooding.
(7)
Areaways for basement windows, entrances, and garage entrances should be provided with effective drainage facilities. Catchment areas should be as small as possible and must be protected from overflow of stormwater from adjacent areas.
(8)
Roof drainage should discharge at least five feet away from building walls when expansive, collapsible or erodible soils are present.
(Ord. of 11-6-1990(4), § 603)
Sec. 50-104. - Height, gradients.
The height and steepness of slopes and maximum gradients of unpaved drainage channels should be such as can be satisfactorily maintained without erosion or land slippage and should provide reasonable access to and around the structure.
(1)
For access around buildings and for maintenance of building and lot improvements, an area generally at least four feet wide with a gradient away from the building no steeper than one in ten (ten percent gradient) should be provided.
(2)
Where considered necessary by the inspection office, precautionary measures should be taken to stabilize the soil, e.g., retaining walls, sodding or planting.
(Ord. of 11-6-1990(4), § 603)
Sec. 50-105. - Drainage structures.
(a)
Suitable drainage structures, such as paved gutters, drain inlets and subsurface drainlines, should be installed, where necessary, to protect against dampness, flooding, erosion or other damage by surface water or groundwater. Drainage structures should be properly connected to adequate outlets that are protected by recorded permanent easements, if required.
(b)
Perimeter foundation drains are necessary on all houses with basements or potentially habitable living space below finish exterior earth grade or in other situations where water and/or soil conditions warrant their use. Outlets must not permit backflow into subsurface drains.
(Ord. of 11-6-1990(4), § 604)
Secs. 50-106—50-130. - Reserved.
DIVISION 3. - WALKS, STEPS AND DRIVEWAYS

Sec. 50-131. - Generally.
A walk and any necessary steps should provide safe and convenient use from a dwelling directly to the street or to a driveway connected to the street. Walk and step construction should be of durable and appropriate material, on stable adequately-drained subgrade or bed.
(Ord. of 11-6-1990(4), § 701)
Sec. 50-132. - Walk design.
(a)
The gradient of a walk under this division should not be steeper than one in 20 (five percent) in areas subject to frequent freezing or one in ten (ten percent) in other areas.
(b)
Cross-slopes should be adequate for immediate drainage of surface water off the walk; required walk must not be used as a drainage channel.
(c)
Walk surfaces should be at or below adjacent ground elevations.
(Ord. of 11-6-1990(4), § 702)
Sec. 50-133. - Step design.
(a)
Width of steps should not be less than the width of the walk that is served.
(b)
A single step in a walk and any flight of steps of more than five feet total rise should be avoided wherever practicable. A substantial handrail of durable construction must be provided if there is more than a 30-inch rise in a single flight.
(Ord. of 11-6-1990(4), § 703)
Sec. 50-134. - Driveways.
(a)
Driveways should be provided from the street to the garage or carport, if any; if no garage or carport, a driveway will generally extend to the rear line of the dwelling. In case of unusual difficulty or hardship, other parking space acceptable to the inspection office may be provided.
(b)
Construction should be with suitable subgrade, base, drainage and surfacing so as to be durable under the use and maintenance contemplated.
(1)
The longitudinal gradient of the driveway should not be less than one percent, nor steeper than permitted for walks if the driveway is also used as a required walk and, if used only as a driveway, no less than one percent and no steeper than 14 percent. Maximum gradient shall be determined at the steepest point. Crown or cross slope should not be greater than five percent.
(2)
Grade transitions should be provided at top and bottom of steep driveways to prevent dragging of vehicle undercarriages or bumper guards.
(3)
The gradient of a required parking space should not be steeper than five percent nor less than one percent.
(4)
Driveway culvert piping shall be a minimum of 15 inches in diameter installed with an absolute minimum of 1.25 feet. The minimum slope shall be one percent. Such pipe shall extend a minimum distance of four feet to each side of the area serviced. Rip-rap of number one stone shall be installed at the out invert of such pipe for a distance of three linear feet, where required.
(Ord. of 11-6-1990(4), § 704)
Secs. 50-135—50-160. - Reserved.
ARTICLE IV. - HAULING, LOGGING OPERATIONS
DIVISION 1. - GENERALLY

Sec. 50-161. - Scope.
This article shall cover any person who uses a county right-of-way in carrying out its business by loading, transporting, or unloading materials of any nature whether on the road surface or a county right-of-way or crossing the unpaved portion of the right-of-way, including ditches or embankments.
(Ord. of 6-1-1993, § 2)
Sec. 50-162. - Definitions.
The following words, terms and phrases, when used in this article, shall have the meanings ascribed to them in this section, except where the context clearly indicates a different meaning:
Access site means any temporary roadway, drive, structure, fill or device, existing or constructed, that is used or employed for the purpose of crossing, travel upon or use of county road rights-of-way.
County right-of-way means the shoulder, front slope, ditch, drain, and back slope, facility or any appurtenance of any county road.
County road means any county-owned or maintained highway, road, street, avenue, drive, detour or other way open to the public and intended or used for the passage of motor vehicles.
Harvester means any person involved in loading and hauling pulpwood, stone, fill dirt, or construction material or logging and timber operations coming under the provisions of this article.
Heavy equipment machinery and vehicles means any and all devices in, upon or by which any person or property may be transported or drawn, including, but not limited to, semitrailers, trailers, tractors and truck-tractors; provided, however, that vehicles in use immediately for the control or extinguishing of wild fire shall be exempt from this article.
Loading and unloading shall be defined by its everyday meaning but also shall include any activity known as harvesting or mining of any product or material.
Operations means those activities contemplated by this article, including the loading or transporting of raw materials such as stone, timber, pulpwood, fill dirt and construction material.
Operator means any person, and the officer's agents, and employees thereof, carrying out the activities contemplated by this article.
(Ord. of 6-1-1993, § 3)
Cross reference— Definitions generally, § 1-4.
Sec. 50-163. - Penalty for violations.
Each violation of the requirements of this article shall be punishable by a fine of $500.00. Each day any violation under this article continues shall be considered a separate offense.
(Ord. of 6-1-1993, § 10; Ord. of 7-7-2015 , § 4)
Sec. 50-164. - Inspection of site.
Upon completion of operations under this article, the operator shall give written or oral notification to the code enforcement officer. The site shall be inspected by a county official from the code enforcement office, road department, or county engineer's office, and the code enforcement officer shall provide notice of release of liability to the operator within ten days of notification of completion.
(Ord. of 6-1-1993, § 4(b))
Sec. 50-165. - Exemptions.
Small and limited operations of less than three tons in load less than 48 hours in duration and using existing driveways may be exempted from the bonding requirements of this article within the reasonable discretion of the code enforcement officer.
(Ord. of 6-1-1993, § 8)
Sec. 50-166. - Liability.
Any provisions of this article notwithstanding, an applicant or operator shall be liable to the county for the full amount of any damages caused by such operations, the amount of bond notwithstanding.
(Ord. of 6-1-1993, § 9(a))
Sec. 50-167. - Arbitration.
If the parties under this article cannot agree on the amount of damages, then the applicant shall have the right to request arbitration in writing. The county shall choose one arbitrator and the operator shall choose the second, both of whom shall be residents of the county. Together, the two designees shall choose a third arbitrator, who shall be a registered forester residing in the county or a county contiguous thereto. Within 30 days of their designation, such arbitration panel shall review the damages and render a decision which shall be subject to appeal to the county superior court.
(Ord. of 6-1-1993, § 9(b))
Sec. 50-168. - Notice required.
(a)
No person or firm shall harvest standing timber in any unincorporated area of Oconee County for delivery as pulpwood, logs, poles, posts, or wood chips to any wood yard or processing plant located inside or outside this state without first providing notice of such harvesting operations to the board or its designated agent prior to cutting any such timber.
(b)
Prior written notice, if possible, but in no event later than 24 hours after entering onto the property, shall be required of any person or firm harvesting such timber for each separate tract to be harvested thereby, shall be in such form as prescribed by rule or regulation of the director of the state forestry commission, and shall consist of the following, and, to the extent there is any conflict between the following and the prescribed form, then the requirements of the prescribed form shall prevail:
(1)
A map of the area which identifies the location of the tract to be harvested and, as to those trucks which will be traveling to and from such tract for purposes of picking up and hauling loads of cut forest products, the main point of ingress to such tract from a public road and, if different, the main point of egress from such tract to a public road;
(2)
A statement as to whether the timber will be removed pursuant to a lump sum sale, per unit sale, or owner harvest for purposes of ad valorem taxation under O.C.G.A. § 48-5-7.5;
(3)
The name, address, and daytime telephone number of the timber seller if the harvest is pursuant to a lump sum or per unit sale or of the timber owner if the harvest is an owner harvest; and
(4)
The name, business address, business telephone number, and nighttime or emergency telephone number of the person or firm harvesting such timber.
(c)
Notice may be submitted in person, by transmission of electronic mail or of electronic record via telefacsimile or such other means as approved by the board, or by mail;
(d)
The failure of any person or firm to provide the surety bond or irrevocable letter of credit required under section (a) above, shall render the notice required in this section ineffective for any such harvesting operations unless and until the person or firm providing such notice has delivered to the board or its designated agent a valid surety bond or irrevocable letter of credit.
(e)
Notice shall be effective for such harvesting operation on such tract within such unincorporated area of Oconee County upon receipt of the same by the board or its designated agent and compliance with the requirements of section (a) and until such time as the person or firm giving such notice has completed the harvesting operation for such tract; provided, however, that any subsequent change in the facts required to be provided for purposes of such notice shall be reported to the governing authority or its designated agent within three business days after such change.
( Ord. of 7-7-2015 , § 3)
Secs. 50-169—50-190. - Reserved.
DIVISION 2. - PERMIT

Sec. 50-191. - Required.
No harvester shall use an existing driveway or access point or install any new driveway, temporary driveway, or means of ingress and egress to any property abutting a county road or county-maintained road, without first making application to the board of commissioners through its code enforcement officer for and receive a permit authorizing such installation or use.
(Ord. of 6-1-1993, § 4(a))
Sec. 50-192. - Application.
The application for permits required by this division shall consist of the following:
(1)
The name, address and phone number of the party which will be loading or unloading.
(2)
The approximate location of access sites to the county road.
(3)
The date work will commence.
(4)
Name of the title owner of the tract.
(Ord. of 6-1-1993, § 4(b))
Sec. 50-193. - Bond.
(a)
Required. Any person or firm harvesting standing timber in any unincorporated area of Oconee County for delivery as pulpwood, logs, poles, posts, or wood chips to any wood yard or processing plant located inside or outside this state shall deliver to the board of commissioners, herein the "board" or its designated agent a valid surety bond, executed by a surety corporation authorized to transact business in this state, protecting Oconee County against any damage caused by such person or firm in the amount of $5,000.00 or, at the option of the person or firm harvesting timber, a valid irrevocable letter of credit issued by a bank or savings and loan association, as defined in O.C.G.A. § 7-1-4, in the amount of $5,000.00 in lieu of such bond.
(b)
Multiple operations. An existing bond may be used by an applicant for more than one operation provided there are no violations of any of the operations and provided further that no more than three operations shall be covered by the same bond. Any operation lasting longer or expected to last longer than 30 days shall be subject to a separate bond.
(c)
Release. Upon completion of the operations and inspection by the appropriate county by the code enforcement office, at the request of the applicant, the bond shall be returned to the applicant subject to deductions for repairs that are reasonably required under this article.
(d)
Denial of permit. No permit shall be issued to any applicant who has failed to satisfy any bonding requirements imposed upon persons engaged in the kind of work or activity proposed to be done or has not satisfactorily completed repairs and cleanup from any previously approved site for such applicant's agents.
(Ord. of 6-1-1993, § 6; Ord. of 7-7-2015 , § 2)
Sec. 50-194. - Display of permit.
It shall be the duty of any permittee under this division to post the permit issued to the applicant in a conspicuous place at the work site. It shall be unlawful for any person to exhibit a permit at or about any location not covered thereby, or to misrepresent the number of the permit or the date of the expiration of the permit.
(Ord. of 6-1-1993, § 7)
Secs. 50-195—50-220. - Reserved.
DIVISION 3. - OPERATION REQUIREMENTS

Sec. 50-221. - Loading sites.
All harvesting, grading or loading shall be conducted at a loading site off of county rights-of-way and behind the established ditch line of county roads.
(Ord. of 6-1-1993, § 5(a))
Sec. 50-222. - Ditches.
Ditches within 50 feet of a temporary driveway or right-of-way crossing shall be kept clear of all debris or residue at all times to allow for proper drainage. Culverts shall be installed at temporary entrances, as needed, to facilitate proper drainage flow. The code enforcement officer shall notify the operator of the requirement for a culvert based on good engineering and driveway maintenance practices.
(Ord. of 6-1-1993, § 5(b))
Sec. 50-223. - Warning signs.
Any person operating under this article on county rights-of-way shall be required to post warning signs at least 500 feet on both sides of a temporary driveway adequately warning oncoming traffic of persons, vehicles, equipment or machinery entering the roadway.
(Ord. of 6-1-1993, § 5(c))
Sec. 50-224. - Roadway.
County roads shall be kept serviceable and open at all times for school buses, emergency vehicles, mail carriers and traffic of the general public.
(Ord. of 6-1-1993, § 5(d))
Sec. 50-225. - Adjacent properties.
The operations under this article will not unreasonably interfere with vehicular and pedestrian traffic and the means of ingress and egress from the affective and adjacent properties.
(Ord. of 6-1-1993, § 5(e))
Sec. 50-226. - Supervision and inspection.
All work for which a permit is required under this article shall be subject to inspection and supervision by the county code enforcement officer, after consultation with the road superintendent and/or county engineer. The code enforcement officer shall have the authority to order the applicant to cease all hauling and logging operations immediately when the weather conditions compromise public safety or public property or when operations are in violation of the provisions of this article.
(Ord. of 6-1-1993, § 5(f))
Sec. 50-227. - Gravel and approaches.
The code enforcement officer may require the placement of gravel or prepare approaches to the county road or right-of-way when the duration of the operations or weather conditions require it. The standards applicable to such gravel and approaches shall be generally in accordance with soil erosion and sedimentation control procedures in article 11 of appendix A of this Code.
(Ord. of 6-1-1993, § 5(g))
Secs. 50-228—50-250. - Reserved.
ARTICLE V. - STREET LIGHTING

Sec. 50-251. - Definitions.
The following words, terms and phrases, when used in this article, shall have the meanings ascribed to them in this section, except where the context clearly indicates a different meaning:
Lot means any single tract of land which falls within any of the zoning classifications as defined by the zoning regulations of the county, and includes both improved and unimproved property.
Public rights-of-way means public streets, roads, sidewalks and alleyways.
(Ord. of 9-4-1990, art. I, § 1, art. III, § 1(b))
Cross reference— Definitions generally, § 1-4.
Sec. 50-252. - General responsibility.
The board of commissioners shall provide and be responsible for the construction, establishment, maintenance and operation of lighting fixtures for the illumination of public streets, roads, sidewalks and alleyways situated within the unincorporated area of the county in the manner and in accordance with the standards set forth in this article.
(Ord. of 9-4-1990, art. I, § 1)
Sec. 50-253. - Compliance required.
No person shall be permitted to establish lighting of public rights-of-way in any portion of the unincorporated area of the county without first complying with the provisions of this article.
(Ord. of 9-4-1990, art. I, § 1)
Sec. 50-254. - Duties of planning director.
The county planning director, his designee, or such other person or department as may be designated by the board of commissioners from time to time, shall be responsible for administering the street lighting program as set forth in this article and shall:
(1)
Advise prospective petitioners for proposed street lighting districts of the procedures required for the establishment of such districts pursuant to this article.
(2)
Establish the boundaries of proposed street lighting districts in accordance with such criteria and in such manner as the planning director may deem necessary and appropriate.
(3)
Establish an orderly system of numbering street lighting districts created pursuant to this article in conjunction with the county tax assessor and the county tax commissioner.
(4)
Provide standard form petitions for use by prospective petitioners.
(5)
Advise petition originators of estimated assessment rates for owners of property lying within proposed street lighting districts.
(6)
Examine all filed petitions for accuracy and for compliance with the provisions of this article.
(7)
Submit petitions to the board of commissioners, together with estimated assessment rates to owners of property lying within such districts and with such recommendations as the planning director may deem appropriate.
(8)
Coordinate the installation of lighting fixtures within such districts upon final approval by the board of commissioners.
(9)
Perform any and all other acts or duties necessary or proper for the attainment of the purposes of this article.
(Ord. of 9-4-1990, art. I, § 2)
Sec. 50-255. - Petition for creation of district.
The owner of residential lots within either an existing subdivision or a discrete and definable area, or the owner of property lying within an area zoned for purposes other than residential use, may submit to the planning director, for approval, a petition for the creation of a street lighting district wherein lighting fixtures for the illumination of public rights-of-way shall be installed and operated. The petition must contain the signatures of at least 66 percent of the owners of the property lying within the proposed street lighting district in favor of such designation and must contain an accurate description of the property to be included by tax map parcel numbers as the same are used by the county tax assessor and the county tax commissioner. The planning director shall, within 60 days from the date of approval of the petition, submit such petition to the board of commissioners for final approval. If 100 percent of the owners within any such proposed district shall fail to sign such petition, a notice of a public hearing to be conducted by the board of commissioners shall first be published in the newspaper in which the county advertisements are usually published once a week for two weeks immediately preceding the meeting at which the board of commissioners shall consider the creation of a street lighting district.
(Ord. of 9-4-1990, art. II, § 1)
Sec. 50-256. - Installation in subdivisions.
(a)
The owner of property lying within a proposed subdivision of land may, but shall not be required to, construct and install lighting fixtures for illumination of public rights-of-way to be located within such proposed subdivision, subject to the provisions of this article. A written request for authorization to construct and install lighting fixtures signed by all owners of such property shall be submitted to the planning director on such forms as may be prescribed, from time to time, by the planning director together with plans and specifications for such lighting fixtures for approval by the planning director. Such plans and specification shall be designed and/or approved by the public utility company which will provide electrical service to the proposed subdivision and shall include, but not be limited to, a preliminary plat of the proposed subdivision showing the location of the lighting fixtures within the subdivision as required by the appropriate public utility, and a description of the fixtures, poles, and other components approved for use by such utility company. Upon approval of the plans and specifications by the planning director, such plans, specifications, and other required documents, together with the recommendation of the planning director, shall be submitted to the board of commissioners for final approval. The construction and installation of such lighting fixtures shall not commence until:
(1)
The board of commissioners have approved such plans and specifications; and
(2)
The county planning commission has approved the preliminary plat of the proposed subdivision which shows the location of all lighting fixtures.
(b)
If the planning director denies the request by such owner or owners for authorization to construct and install such lighting fixtures, the planning director shall notify such owner or owners in writing of such denial and the reasons therefore. Any such owner shall have the right to appeal the decision of the planning director by filing a written notice of appeal with the planning director within 30 days from the date of such notice of denial. The planning director shall thereupon submit the notice of appeal to the board of commissioners together with all plans, specifications and other documents constituting the record upon which the action appealed from was taken for placement upon the agenda of the board of commissioners for its determination. The board of commissioners may reverse or affirm, in whole or in part, or may modify the decision from which the appeal is taken.
(Ord. of 9-4-1990, art. II, § 2)
Sec. 50-257. - Creation of special lighting districts by board.
Any other provision of this article to the contrary notwithstanding, the board of commissioners shall be authorized and empowered to create special street lighting districts and provide lighting fixtures in areas in which the board of commissioners have determined that special conditions exist which uniquely affect such areas so as to warrant the creation of such districts and the provision of such lighting fixtures therein. In making such determination, the special conditions which the board of commissioners may consider shall include, but not be limited to, public safety, security and welfare, and the creation of such street lighting districts shall be upon such terms and conditions and in such manner as the board of commissioners may deem necessary or proper. A notice of a public hearing to be conducted by the board of commissioners shall first be published in the newspaper in which county advertisements are usually published once a week for two weeks preceding the meeting at which the board of commissioners shall consider the creation of a street lighting district pursuant to this article.
(Ord. of 9-4-1990, art. II, § 3)
Sec. 50-258. - Costs and assessments.
(a)
The cost of providing and maintaining service in street lighting districts created pursuant to this article shall be the actual cost of the energy used plus the retirement of any construction costs incurred in the installation of lighting fixtures and an amount equal to ten percent of such sum to cover administrative expenses. Each property owner shall be responsible for and pay their pro rata share of such cost which shall be prorated among all property owners on the basis of the number of lots, whether improved or unimproved, owned by each property owner within such district. The construction costs incurred in the installation of lighting fixtures shall be retired in the manner set out by agreement between the public utility or other person or entity to whom the indebtedness is owed.
(b)
Any other provision of this article to the contrary notwithstanding, the board of commissioners shall be authorized to establish, by resolution duly adopted, the cost of providing and maintaining service in street lighting districts created pursuant to the provisions of this article as the board of commissioners may deem necessary or proper.
(c)
The county tax commissioner shall be responsible for the collection and receipt of moneys in payment of the cost of illuminating public rights-of-way from the owners of property lying within each street lighting district. The cost of such service shall be added to the tax statement issued annually to each such property owner. The board of commissioners shall be authorized to establish, by resolution duly adopted, such other manner or method of billing, accounting, collecting and receiving of moneys in payment of the cost of providing and maintaining street lighting districts as the board of commissioners may deem necessary or proper.
(Ord. of 9-4-1990, art. III)
Sec. 50-259. - Standards.
The American National Standard Practice of Roadway Lighting of the Illuminating Engineering Society, as approved by the American Standards Institute, as amended from time to time, is hereby adopted as the standard for the installation and operation of lighting in the unincorporated area of the county, with the following exceptions:
(1)
Lighting fixtures installed within public rights-of-way to be operated for the purpose of street illumination shall comply with these standards. The minimum average horizontal footcandle illumination level by roadway classification shall be:
EXPAND
Roadway
Classification Commercial
Area Intermediate
Area Residential
Area
Major 2.0 1.2 0.9
Collector 1.2 0.9 0.6
Local or residential 0.9 0.6 0.2
  The uniformity of illumination shall be such that the point of lowest illumination shall have at least one-third of the average horizontal footcandle required illumination level, except that on local or residential streets, it may not be less than one-sixth of this average.
(2)
Lighting fixtures installed within public rights-of-way as security lights or for the purpose of lighting areas other than streets shall be mounted on the side of the pole opposite from the street and shall be oriented in such a manner to ensure that the lateral light distribution pattern is parallel to the street and the vertical light distribution, at the initial light source, is perpendicular to the street, so as to protect the users of the street from objectionable glare.
(3)
Lighting fixtures installed within or outside of public rights-of-way for any other purpose shall be installed and operated in such a manner to prevent glare from being a hazard to or interfering with the normal use of public rights-of-way.
(Ord. of 9-4-1990, art. IV)
Sec. 50-260. - Contracts with utility companies.
The board of commissioners shall be authorized to enter into and make contracts with public utility companies and other firms, entities or persons for the purpose of carrying out and effecting the provisions of this article.
(Ord. of 9-4-1990, art. V, § 1)
Sec. 50-261. - Variances.
The board of commissioners shall be authorized to grant exceptions to the literal terms of this article where special conditions or hardships exist.
(Ord. of 9-4-1990, art. V, § 2)
Secs. 50-262—50-290. - Reserved.
ARTICLE VI. - UTILITY RELOCATION[3]

Footnotes:
--- (3) ---
Cross reference— Utilities, ch. 66.

Sec. 50-291. - Definitions.
The following words, terms and phrases, when used in this article, shall have the meanings ascribed to them in this section, except where the context clearly indicates a different meaning:
Public utility includes, but is not limited to, power, telephone, natural gas, storm drainage, sanitary sewer, and cable television.
(Ord. of 6-4-1996, § 1)
Cross reference— Definitions generally, § 1-4.
Sec. 50-292. - Compliance required.
All public utilities installed in the rights-of-way of public streets in the unincorporated area of the county, the county roads shall be installed in accordance with this article.
(Ord. of 6-4-1996, § 1)
Sec. 50-293. - Review, approval of plans for installation.
No public utility shall be installed in existing county roads or in a street to become a county road, other than those streets described in section 50-294, unless the plans for the same have been submitted to the county for review and approval. Such review and approval shall be based on the design standards then in use by the county and the location of other utilities installed prior to June 4, 1996.
(Ord. of 6-4-1996, § 2)
Sec. 50-294. - Applicability of subdivision regulations.
No public utility shall be installed in a street to become a county road pursuant to the land subdivision regulations of the county unless the plans for same have been submitted to the county for review and approval. Such review and approval shall be based on the design standards then in use by the county. The submission shall be made at the same time as the engineering layout and road profile required by the Unified Development Code, appendix A to this Code.
(Ord. of 6-4-1996, § 3)
Sec. 50-295. - Right of entry for inspection.
The employees, authorized agents and other duly authorized employees of the county, bearing proper credentials and identification, shall be permitted to enter upon all properties for the purpose of inspection of the installation of utilities.
(Ord. of 6-4-1996, § 4)
Sec. 50-296. - Review of design standards.
All design standards set forth in this article shall be reviewed by the board of commissioners and approved by resolution of the board.
(Ord. of 6-4-1996, § 5)
Sec. 50-297. - Removal, relocation of utility facilities.
(a)
Any utility using or occupying any part of a public road which the county has undertaken to improve or intends to improve shall remove and relocate its facility when, in the reasonable opinion of the county, the facility constitutes an obstruction or interference with the use or safe operation of such road by the traveling public or when, in the reasonable opinion of the county, the facility will interfere with such contemplated construction or maintenance.
(b)
Whenever the county reasonably determines it necessary to have a utility facility removed and relocated, the county shall give the utility at least 60 days' written notice directing the removal and relocation of such utility obstruction. If the utility does not thereafter begin removal within a reasonable time sufficient to allow for engineering and other procedures reasonably necessary to the removal and relocation of the utility facility, the county may give the utility a final notice directing that such removal shall commence not later than ten days from receipt of such final notice. If such utility does not, within ten days from receipt of such final notice, begin to remove or relocate the facility or, having so begun removal or relocation, thereafter fails to complete the removal or relocation within a reasonable time, the county may remove or relocate the same with its own employees or by employing or contracting for the necessary engineering, labor, tools, equipment, supervision or other necessary services or materials and whatever else is necessary to accomplish the removal or relocation. The expenses of such removal or relocation may be paid and collected as provided in section 50-299.
(Ord. of 8-2-1994(2), § 1)
Sec. 50-298. - Replacement right-of-way for relocated utility.
(a)
Whenever a public road improvement necessitates the acquisition by the county of a utility's privately owned rights-of-way and the relocation of such utility's facilities, the county may, with written consent of the utility, provide a replacement right-of-way.
(b)
Whenever a public road improvement requires the relocation of a utility occupying public road rights-of-way, the county may, at the written request of such utility, provide to the utility a right-of-way which is not on a public road right-of-way. In this event, the utility shall reimburse the county for the acquisition costs.
(c)
Title to property acquired for utility relocations under subsection (a) or (b) of this section and as authorized by section 50-297 may be transferred to such utility as authorized in section 50-299. However, the procedures for sale of property as set forth in section 50-300 shall not be applicable to the transfer of property acquired for utility relocation. Any such property transfer to the utility shall be conveyed by the execution of a quitclaim deed by the board of commissioners.
(Ord. of 8-2-1994(2), § 2)
Sec. 50-299. - Payment of expenses of removal and relocation.
The expenses incurred by the county as a result of utility removal and relocation pursuant to section 50-297(b), including the cost of acquiring new land or interest therein pursuant to section 50-298(b), shall be paid out of the available appropriations of the county for the construction or maintenance of public roads. A statement of such expenses shall be submitted to the utility, which shall make payment to the county. If the utility does not make payment or arrange to make payment to the county within 60 days after the receipt of such statement, the county shall certify the amount for collection to the county attorney. Nothing in this article shall be construed so as to deprive any utility, relocated from a location in which it owned a property interest, of compensation for such property interest.
(Ord. of 8-2-1994(2), § 3)
Sec. 50-300. - Promulgation of regulations.
The county may promulgate reasonable regulations governing the installation, fees, construction, maintenance, renewal, removal and relocations of pipes, mains, conduits, cables, wires, poles, towers, tracks, traffic and other such signals, and other equipment and appliances of any utility in, on, along, over, or under any part of the county road system which the county has undertaken or agreed to undertake or which has been completed by the county pursuant to its authority. In addition to the requirement of such county regulations, it shall be the responsibility of the utility to obtain whatever franchise is required by law.
(Ord. of 8-2-1994(2), § 4)
Sec. 50-301. - Right to injunctive relief.
(a)
The county may petition for an injunction to enforce the performance of any duty or act imposed by this article or for an order to restrain the breach of any duty or the commission of any act imposed or prohibited or unauthorized by this article.
(b)
Any person who violates any provision of this article or fails to comply with the regulations thereof, including any regulation promulgated by the county, shall, upon conviction, be punished as provided in section 1-19. The owner of any utility, its agents, representatives, employees or other person who commits, participates in, assists in, or maintains such violation may each be found guilty of a separate offense and suffer the penalties provided in this section.
(Ord. of 8-2-1994(2), § 5)
Secs. 50-302—50-320. - Reserved.
ARTICLE VII. - UTILITY ACCOMMODATIONS

Sec. 50-321. - Short title.
This article may be referred to as the utility accommodations ordinance.
(Ord. of 6-2-2009, § 1)
Sec. 50-322. - Adoption of state standards.
(a)
DOT policy. The 2009 Georgia Department of Transportation Utility Accommodation Policy and Standards including all references contained therein to codes, rules, regulations, schedules, forms and appendix items, as may be amended from time to time, the "DOT policy" is adopted by reference and incorporated in this article as if fully set forth herein, subject to all amendments and modifications contained in this article. A copy of the manual shall be maintained at the offices of the Oconee County Public Works Department and of the clerk of the board of commissioners and shall be open for public inspection.
(b)
Definitions applicable to the DOT policy and this article. The DOT policy is amended in order to equate state definitions and provisions with their appropriate equivalent county counterparts such that a policy shall be implemented to reflect the intent and effect of the state right-of-way policy as it would logically apply to all Oconee County roads, including but not limited to the following:
Commissioner shall mean director [of the] Oconee County Public Works Department.
Department shall mean Oconee County Public Works Department.
District Engineer shall mean the director of the Oconee County Public Works Department or his designee.
Highway shall mean any road that is part of the Oconee County road system and shall include all of the right-of-way associated with such road. Where used in this article, highway, county highway, county road and road shall be equivalent terms and shall include all right-of-way associated with any such road or highway.
State shall mean Oconee County.
State bridge and structural design engineer shall mean the director of the Oconee County Public Works Department or his designee.
State highway (chief) engineer shall mean the director of the Oconee County Public Works Department or his designee.
State utilities engineer shall mean the director of the Oconee County Public Works Department or his designee.
Telephone booth shall include any booth or structure to be used by the public at large which houses a communications link for local and long distance communications, including but not limited to data communication ports, terminals, kiosks, structures or jacks for connection with local or long distance communications.
Utility (as defined in the state's policy) shall read: "Utility: all privately, publicly or cooperatively owned systems for producing, transmitting or distributing communication data, information, telecommunication, cable television, power, electricity, light, heat, gas, oil, crude products, water/sewer, steam, fire and police signals, traffic control devices and street lighting systems and housing or conduit for any of the foregoing, which directly or indirectly serve the public or any part thereof. The "utility" may also be used to refer to the owner, operator, provider, servicer, or any agent there, of any above-described utility or utility facility."
(Ord. of 6-2-2009, § 2)
Sec. 50-323. - Administration.
The director of the Oconee County Public Works Department shall have the authority to administer the DOT policy as adopted in this article on county roads and in unincorporated Oconee County and in accordance with any procedures and forms Oconee County Public Works Department may establish thereunder.
(Ord. of 6-2-2009, § 3)
Sec. 50-324. - Fees.
The board of commissioners shall be authorized to charge fees in accordance with the DOT policy and any other applicable laws that exist now or may be enacted in the future. Fees shall be determined by the director of the public works department and shall be subject to the approval of and publicly disclosed by the board of commissioners. Any fee schedule shall be posted at the public works department and shall be open for public inspection.
(Ord. of 6-2-2009, § 4)
Sec. 50-325. - Utility locations in any new right-of-way.
All utilities locating their facilities in new residential and commercial developments shall locate their facilities pursuant to the Oconee County Unified Development Code as it exists at the time of such location. In the event that the Unified Development Code conflicts with the DOT policy, the Unified Development Code will prevail, provided it is not more restrictive than the DOT policy.
(Ord. of 6-2-2009, § 5)
Sec. 50-326. - Pavement cuts, utility work; permission, restoration, obstructions.
(a)
Approval. Any utility, contractor, firm or individual shall obtain written approval of the board of commissioners through the public works department prior to making any pavement cuts, curb cuts or any utility repairs or installations on a county road with reasonable allowances being made for emergencies. Utilities shall also comply with the policies and procedures set forth hereinabove. In the event of any emergency, the utility, contractor, firm or individual making such repair shall notify the public works department of the need for an emergency repair in person, by telephone, or by any other method authorized by the public works department for such purpose.
(b)
Repairs. After work approved under this section has been completed, the affected party shall promptly repair the pavement and any portion of any such county road that has been encroached upon. Repair work shall be completed in accordance with all of the work specifications on file with the public works department and to the department's reasonable satisfaction. Utilities shall also comply with the policies and procedures set forth hereinabove. Any repair not made within seven days of the damage may, at the discretion of the public works department, be performed by the county, with the costs of same plus an administrative fee of $1,000.00 to be charged to said affected party.
(c)
Obstructions. County roads shall be kept clear of any form of unnecessary obstruction. Written permission shall be obtained from the public works department to place any type of structure or material on or in any county road.
(Ord. of 6-2-2009, § 5)
Sec. 50-327. - Miscellaneous.
(a)
Severability. In the event any provision of this article is in conflict with any state or federal law or with any rule, regulation or order of any state or federal agency having jurisdiction over the subject matter of this article, it is hereby deemed to be the intention of the board of commissioners that the state or federal law, rule, regulation or order, as the case may be, shall prevail over any such provision, and the remaining portion of this article shall be deemed to be, and continue, in full force and effect.
(b)
Repealer. All ordinances or parts of ordinances inconsistent with the provisions of this article are hereby repealed.
(c)
Effective date. This article shall become effective and shall be enforced from and after the date of its adoption, the public welfare demanding it.
(Ord. of 6-2-2009, § 6)
Sec. 50-328. - Regulation of wireless infrastructure in a county right-of-way.
(a)
Purpose and scope.
(1)
Purpose. The purpose of this section is to establish policies and procedures for the placement of small cell wireless infrastructure in rights-of-way within the county's jurisdiction.
(2)
Intent. This section establishes uniform standards to address issues presented by small cell wireless infrastructure within the county rights-of-way, including, without limitation, to:
a.
Implement an application process to construct, place, alter, modify, and/or operate wireless facilities and wireless support structures within the rights-of-way;
b.
Prevent interference with the use of streets, sidewalks, alleys, parkways and other public ways and places;
c.
Prevent the creation of visual and physical obstructions and other conditions that are hazardous to vehicular and pedestrian traffic;
d.
Prevent interference with the facilities and operations of facilities lawfully located in rights-of-way or public property;
e.
Promote and encourage, wherever possible, the placement, height and quantity of wireless infrastructure in the rights-of-way in such a manner as to minimize adverse aesthetic and other impacts to the health, safety and welfare of the county, its residents, and their property; and
f.
Facilitate rapid deployment of small cell wireless infrastructure to provide the benefits of advanced wireless services for county residents and businesses.
(3)
Conflicts with other ordinances. This section supersedes all ordinances adopted prior hereto that are in conflict herewith, to the extent of such conflict.
(b)
Definitions. For purposes of this section, and where not inconsistent with the context, the defined terms, phrases, words, abbreviations, and their derivations shall have the meaning given in this section. When not inconsistent with the context, words in the present tense include the future tense, words used in the plural number include words in the singular number and words in the singular number include the plural number. The word "shall" is always mandatory, and not merely directory.
Antenna means communications equipment at a fixed location that transmits or receives electromagnetic radio frequency signals used in the provision of wireless services.
Applicable standards means all applicable engineering and safety standards governing the installation, maintenance, and operation of wireless infrastructure and the performance of all work in the rights-of-way, including the most current versions of National Electric Safety Code ("NESC"), the National Electrical Code ("NEC"), the regulations of the Federal Communications Commission ("FCC") and the Occupational Safety and Health Administration ("OSHA"), the Georgia Department of Transportation Utilities Accommodation Policy and Standards Manual, and applicable provisions of the county's building, construction, zoning, and safety codes, and other reasonable safety, engineering, architectural or aesthetic requirements of the county, state, or federal authority having jurisdiction over such wireless infrastructure.
Applicant means any person who applies for a permit and is a wireless infrastructure provider.
Application means a request submitted by an applicant (i) for a permit to locate wireless facilities; or (ii) to approve the installation of a wireless support structure or modification of a utility pole for the purpose of supporting permitted wireless facilities, that meets all application requirements set forth in this section. An application shall be made upon a form approved by county public works director, and shall include all necessary and appropriate documentation.
BOC or board of commissioners means the board of commissioners of Oconee County, Georgia.
County owned pole means (i) a utility pole owned or operated by the county in the rights-of-way, including a utility pole that provides lighting or traffic control functions, including light poles, traffic signals, and structures for signage, and (ii) a pole or similar structure owned or operated by the county in the ROW that supports only wireless facilities.
Day means calendar day.
Emergency means a situation exists that, in the reasonable discretion of the county or permit holder, if not remedied immediately, poses an imminent threat to public health, life, or safety, or damage to property.
Height means the distance measured from the pre-existing grade level to the highest point on the wireless infrastructure, even if said highest point is an antenna.
Permit means a grant of right by the county to a wireless infrastructure provider to use and occupy the rights-of-way for the installation, use and maintenance of a wireless facility or wireless support structure at a particular location consistent with the terms of this section and such other terms and conditions as the county may reasonably require.
Person means an individual, corporation, limited liability company, partnership, association, trust, or other entity or organization, including the county.
Rights-of-way or ROW means the area on, below, or above a public roadway, highway, street, sidewalk, alley, or similar public property, held by the county or over which the county exercises any rights of management or control.
Stealth technology means state-of-the-art design techniques used to blend objects into the surrounding environment and to minimize visual impact. These design techniques may be applied to wireless communications towers, antennas, and other facilities, which blend the proposed facility into the existing structure or visual backdrop in such a manner as to render it less visible to the casual observer. Such methods include, but are not limited to facilities constructed to resemble light poles, flag poles or other streetscape amenities. The use of additional features such as flags, decorative street lamps and banners or signs may be utilized to blend the proposed facility into the visual backdrop. This terminology is intended to be consistent with 'Alternative tower and antenna structure' as defined in section 335.02 of the Unified Development Code of Oconee County and to accomplish the same purpose of improving the aesthetic appearance of the county.
Utility pole means a pole or similar structure at a fixed location that is used in whole or in part for the purpose of carrying electric distribution lines or cables, or lines, cables, or wires for telecommunications, cable or electric service, or for lighting, traffic control, signage, or a similar function regardless of ownership, including county-owned poles. Such term shall not include structures supporting only wireless facilities.
Wireless facility means equipment of the type commonly known as a "small cell" wireless facility, at a fixed location within the rights-of-way, that enables wireless communications between user equipment and a communications network, regardless of technology, that meets both of the following qualifications: (i) each antenna is located inside an enclosure of no more than eight cubic feet in volume or, in the case of an antenna that has exposed elements, the antenna and all of its exposed elements could fit within an imaginary enclosure of no more than six cubic feet; and (ii) all other wireless equipment associated with the facility is cumulatively no more than 28 cubic feet in volume. The following types of associated ancillary equipment are not included in the calculation of equipment volume: electric meter, concealment elements, grounding equipment, power transfer switch, cut-off switch, and vertical cable runs for the connection of power and other services. A wi-fi access point that meets both of the above qualifications is a wireless facility. A wireless facility includes, without limitation: equipment associated with wireless communications; radio transceivers, antennas, coaxial or fiber-optic cable, regular and backup power supplies, and comparable equipment, regardless of technological configuration; and ground-mounted and underground pedestals and vaults. The term does not include a wireless support structure or utility pole.
Wireless infrastructure includes one or more, or a combination of, wireless facilities or wireless support structures primarily intended to support the provision of wireless services.
Wireless infrastructure provider means any person, including a person authorized to provide telecommunications service in the state, that builds or installs or proposes to build or install wireless facilities, one or more wireless support structures, or communications transmissions facilities in support of wireless facilities.
Wireless services means any services, whether at a fixed location or mobile, provided using wireless infrastructure.
Wireless support structure means a freestanding structure located in the ROW, such as a monopole; tower, either guyed or self-supporting; billboard; or other existing or proposed structure designed to support or capable of supporting small cell wireless facilities, but which is not a utility pole.
(c)
Application and fees.
(1)
Permit required. No person shall place any wireless infrastructure of any size in the rights-of-way, without first filing a small cell wireless infrastructure permit application and obtaining a permit therefore, except as otherwise provided in this section. An application for wireless facilities to be co-located may contain the information for multiple sites. An application requiring a new facility or pole shall only contain a single site, although it may provide for multiple wireless facilities located on such facility or pole.
(2)
Permit application. All applications for permits filed pursuant to this section shall be on a form, paper or electronic, approved by the county public works director. The applicant may designate documents and materials which it reasonably believes to contain trade secrets, as the same are defined in the Georgia Open Records Act, by clearly marking each page of such materials accordingly and by providing the affidavit required in O.C.G.A. § 50-18-72(a)(34). The applicant may also designate portions of its application materials that it reasonably believes contain proprietary or confidential information as "proprietary" or "confidential" by clearly marking each page of such materials accordingly. The county will take reasonable measures to ensure proprietary or confidential information is kept confidential; however, applicant agrees and understands that such information may not be protected under the Georgia Open Records Act.
(3)
Application requirements. The application shall be made by the wireless infrastructure provider or its duly authorized representative and shall contain the following:
a.
The applicant's name, address, telephone number, and e-mail address.
b.
The names, addresses, telephone numbers, and e-mail addresses of all consultants, if any, acting on behalf of the applicant with respect to the filing of the application.
c.
The legal owner of all property constituting the facility, if different from the applicant.
d.
A description of the proposed work and the purposes and intent of the small cell wireless infrastructure. The scope and detail of such description shall be appropriate to the nature and character of the work to be performed, with special emphasis on those matters likely to be affected or impacted by the work proposed.
e.
A specific description of the proposed installation, including the wireless facility, the proposed location, and any structure upon or within which the wireless facility is to be installed. Applicant shall provide construction plans certified by a properly licensed professional engineer, which shall state that the installation is safe and consistent with sound engineering practices.
f.
In the case of any installation involving attachment of a wireless facility to a structure owned by a third party, a certification that the applicant has obtained, or will obtain prior to any construction or installation activity, the legal right to attach facilities to such structure. The county may require the applicant to provide additional information to demonstrate such legal right to the satisfaction of the county. Any permit issued under this section shall be effective and conditioned upon the applicant's demonstration of compliance with this subsection.
g.
A statement that the small cell wireless infrastructure will be maintained in a safe manner, and in compliance with all applicable standards;
(4)
Maintenance and replacement. An application shall not be required for: (i) routine or emergency maintenance; or (ii) the replacement of a small cell wireless facility with another small cell wireless facility that is the same or smaller in size, weight, and height.
(5)
Information updates. Any amendment to information contained in a permit application shall be submitted in writing to the county within 30 days after the change necessitating the amendment.
(6)
Application fees. Unless otherwise provided by law, all applications for permits pursuant to this section shall be accompanied by a nonrefundable fee for actual, direct, and reasonable costs incurred by the county related to processing the application, which at the adoption of this section are $500.00 for each application for collocated wireless facilities plus an additional $100.00 for each wireless facility in excess of five included in the application. If the installation of the wireless facility requires a new pole or other new structure for its installation the fee shall be $1,000.00.
(d)
Penalties.
(1)
In the event of a violation of this section, the penalties unless otherwise specified in this section shall be as set forth state law for the violation of a county ordinance.
(2)
In addition to those penalties set forth in state law, and distinct and separate from such penalties, a failure to comply with the requirements of this section with regard to one or more particular permits shall be grounds for suspension or revocation of such permit. The county shall first notify the permit holder in writing of the violation, which shall specify the nature of the violation and that the violation must be corrected within 14 days of the date of the postmark of the notice, or of the date of personal service of the notice, whichever is earlier. Notwithstanding anything to the contrary in this subsection or any other section of this section, if the violation causes, creates or presents an imminent danger or threat to the health or safety of lives or property, the county may, at its sole discretion, order the violation remedied within 24 hours. If the permit holder fails to either remedy the violation within the prescribed timeframe, or provide assurance, to the satisfaction of the county, that the permit holder will diligently remedy the violation within a reasonable time, the county may immediately revoke the permit, and shall promptly notify the permit holder of such revocation.
(3)
In the event that the county finds a pattern of repeated and pervasive violations by a permit holder, the county may, following a hearing at which the permit holder shall be given an opportunity to be heard, suspend or revoke all permits held by a permit holder.
(e)
Action on permit applications.
(1)
The county shall review the application for a small cell wireless infrastructure permit in light of its conformity with applicable regulations of this section and applicable standards, and shall process the application on nondiscriminatory terms and conditions subject to the following requirements:
a.
Within ten days of receiving an application, the county must determine and notify the applicant whether the application is complete; or if an application is incomplete, the county must specifically identify the missing information.
b.
Under normal circumstances, the county will make its final decision to approve or deny the application within 60 days of the county's determination that the application is complete.
c.
The county shall advise the applicant in writing of its final decision, and in the final decision document the basis for a denial, supported by substantial written evidence.
(2)
Consolidated application. An applicant seeking to construct, modify or replace a network of small cell wireless facilities may, at the applicant's discretion, file a consolidated application and receive a single permit for multiple small cell wireless facilities, provided however, the county's denial of any site or sites within a single application shall not affect other sites submitted in the same application. The county shall grant a permit for any and all sites in a single application that it does not deny subject to the requirements of this section.
(f)
Small cell wireless facilities in the ROW; maximum height; other requirements.
(1)
Maximum size. Unless a waiver is granted for good cause shown, the height of new or modified small cell wireless facilities, or related utility poles or wireless support structures, installed in the rights-of-way shall not exceed 50 feet above preexisting grade.
(2)
Appearance. All small cell wireless facilities shall utilize stealth technology unless the applicant can satisfactorily demonstrate to the county that the proposed installation, or set of installations, within the rights-of-way will not materially detract from the streetscape, landscape, skyline, beauty, or aesthetic interests of Oconee County. In making such a determination, the county may consider such factors as:
a.
The nature of the proposed installation, including the size and appearance of individual facilities, the number and density of proposed facilities, and existing facilities in the area;
b.
The character of the surrounding area, including whether it possesses particular historic or scenic interest, or is a residential neighborhood;
c.
Whether the installation would have an unreasonable adverse effect on surrounding property values;
d.
The applicant's plans for future development;
e.
Public comments; and
f.
All other utilities have been required to be placed underground.
(3)
First-in-time access. Access to a particular space within the ROW shall be authorized on a first-come-first-served basis, corresponding to the date upon which an application is deemed complete by the county.
(4)
Commencement of work. The permit shall be voidable by the county unless in the county's determination the work is commenced within 180 days from the date of issuance of the permit, unless extended by the county. If the facility is not used for its intended use within 12 months from the date of permit issuance, the county may revoke the permit.
(5)
Collocation on traffic control facility mast arms. No small cell wireless facility may be located on the mast arm or foundation of a structure used to support traffic control facilities and equipment.
(6)
Co-location. A small cell wireless facility shall be located on an existing structure in the rights-of-way, unless the applicant can demonstrate that no such location opportunities exist, considering the factors set forth in subparagraph a. below. The applicant may apply for an administrative variance from this requirement and seek placement of a new small cell wireless support structure within the rights-of-way, pursuant to subparagraph b. below. Nothing in this subsection shall be construed as requiring any owner of existing facilities to share an antenna or any other wireless facility or wireless support structure with an applicant.
a.
Factors demonstrating no co-location.
1.
No existing poles or structures are located within the geographic area that can potentially meet applicant's bona fide engineering and service requirements;
2.
Existing poles or structures are not of sufficient height to meet applicant's requirements;
3.
Existing poles or structures do not have sufficient structural strength to support applicant's proposed wireless facility, and no alternate wireless facility requiring less structural strength and that would meet applicant's requirements are reasonably available;
4.
The applicant's proposed wireless facility would cause electromagnetic interference with the existing wireless facilities on the existing tower or structure, or existing wireless facilities on the existing pole or structure would cause interference with the applicant's proposed wireless facility;
5.
The fees, costs, or contractual provisions required by the owner in order to share an existing pole or structure, or to adapt an existing pole or structure for sharing, are unreasonable; or
6.
Other limiting factors exist that render existing poles and structures unsuitable.
b.
Administrative variance. In applying for an administrative variance to allow a new wireless support structure, the review process, including timelines, shall be in accordance with 47 U.S.C. § 332(c)(7) of the Federal Communications Act, as amended, and the FCC rules interpreting same, as well as the consideration of the following additional factors by the county to determine if the administrative variance is appropriate:
1.
Demonstrated need for the applicant's proposed small cell technologies within the geographic area requested in order to deliver adequate wireless service.
2.
Proof that all co-location sites in the area of need were pursued and have been denied; or that there does not exist the ability to co-locate using existing structures. The applicant must demonstrate all actions taken to achieve co-location.
3.
The character of the area in which the small cell wireless support structure is requested, including evidence of surrounding properties and uses.
4.
Stealth technology, if any, proposed to be utilized by the applicant, or proof that stealth technology is either unnecessary or cannot be used.
5.
Proof that the proposed wireless support structure is the minimal physical installation which will achieve the applicant's goals.
(7)
No interference. Wireless infrastructure shall not interfere in any manner with the existence and operation of any and all public and private rights of way, sanitary sewers, water mains, storm drains, gas mains, poles, aerial, and underground electrical and telephone wires, electroliers, cable television, and other telecommunications, utility, or county property.
(8)
Concealed wiring. All electrical wiring shall be concealed within the structure. If this is unattainable, then a covering of the same color as the structure shall be used to conceal the wiring.
(9)
Electrical power. The acquisition of electrical power shall be the sole responsibility of the permit holder. All electrical power shall be provided by underground utilities where feasible.
(10)
Undergrounding. Applicant shall comply with nondiscriminatory undergrounding requirements that prohibit electric utilities, telecommunications and cable providers from installing utility poles or wireless support structures in the ROW without prior zoning approval in areas zoned for single family residential use, provided that such requirements shall not prohibit the replacement of existing structures.
(11)
Facilities. When needed to supplement the information in its files, the county may request additional information about a specific facility of an applicant. Each applicant shall respond to such request in a reasonable and timely manner and based on information it maintains in the ordinary course of business. Additionally, when a state of emergency has been declared by the appropriate state or federal officials, each applicant shall work in good faith to provide facility information.
(12)
Radiofrequency and electromagnetic frequency emissions. The permit holder shall at all times and in the manner specified by the county certify that it complies with all FCC rules and requirements relating to radiofrequency propagation and avoidance of interference.
a.
The permit holder is solely responsible for the emissions of its wireless facilities, and for ensuring that any exposure from its emissions is within the limits permitted under all applicable rules of the FCC. To the extent required by FCC rules a permit holder shall install appropriate signage to notify workers and third parties of the potential for exposure to RF emissions.
b.
Mitigation. To avoid exposure to radio frequency electromagnetic fields by persons working on or in close proximity to wireless facilities, and for emergency situations affecting public safety, an applicant shall implement a process, subject to the county's prior review and approval, through which the applicant's wireless facility may be turned off manually by the county, its employees or contractors, and first responders, through means of a disconnect switch reasonably accessible to such persons.
(13)
Maintenance of facilities. A permit holder shall make and maintain all wireless infrastructure installed in the ROW in safe condition and good repair. Cabinets, facilities, wires and other equipment shall not appear to be unkempt. Maintenance and replacement of wireless facilities shall be performed by the permit holder or by an approved contractor at no cost to the county.
(14)
Minimizing impacts on adjacent property owners.
a.
A permit holder shall design and install wireless infrastructure so as to minimize any impact on the immediately adjacent property owners, and shall be required to mitigate any unreasonable adverse impacts relating to visibility from the adjacent property; access to and from the adjacent property; and intrusion of light, sound, or smell.
(15)
Appeal. A denial of an application for permit, or revocation of existing permit, shall entitle the applicant or permit holder to a hearing before the board of commissioners within 21 days after receipt by the county of written notice of appeal, which must be delivered to the clerk of the Oconee County Commission within 30 days of such denial or revocation. The county must issue its written decision within 15 days of the hearing. Any person aggrieved by such decision shall have the right to appeal in accordance with law.
(g)
Effect of permit.
(1)
Authority granted. A permit from the county authorizes an applicant to undertake only certain activities in accordance with this section, and does not create a property right or grant authority to the applicant to impinge upon the rights of others who may already have an interest in the rights-of way. The right to install wireless infrastructure at a particular location shall include the right to reasonably access such facility, including but not limited to on foot and by vehicle, to connect such facility to electrical power and telecommunications service, to maintain such facility, and to upgrade and modify such facility, in accordance with requirements of the county and applicable standards. Permitted facilities must at all times serve a lawful purpose, and the use of such facilities must comply with all applicable federal, state and local laws and applicable standards.
(2)
Duration. No permit issued under this section shall be valid for a period longer than ten years. Nothing in this subsection prevents any permit from being renewed.
(3)
Reservation of county authority. The county at all times reserves the right to take any action it deems necessary, in its sole discretion, to repair, maintain, alter, or improve any site within the rights-of-way where wireless infrastructure is installed, as may be necessary and in keeping with the health, welfare and safety of the public. Such actions may temporarily interfere with the operation of a wireless facility. The county will give the permit holder 30 days written notification of such planned, non-emergency actions that are reasonably likely to interfere with the operation of a wireless facility. In the event of an emergency the county shall endeavor to give the owner notice within 24 hours of such action.
(4)
No franchise or approval to provide cable service, or other services. A permit issued under this section does not constitute a license or franchise to provide cable service as defined in Section 602 of the Communications Act of 1934, as amended, 47 U.S.C. § 522(6), nor any other service for which a franchise or other approval is required.
(5)
Failure to exercise access rights. If a permit holder does not diligently exercise any access right granted pursuant to an applicable permit(s) within 120 days of the effective date of such permit (unless such time period is extended in writing), the county may, but shall have no obligation to, use the permitted space in the public right-of-way for its own needs, make the space available to other entities, or for other purposes. If a wireless facility is not used for its intended use within 12 months from the date of permit issuance, the county may revoke the permit 30 days after providing notice to the permit holder of the county's intent to revoke, provided the permit holder submits no sufficient proof of use, to the county's satisfaction, within such 30-day period.
(h)
Removal, relocation or modification of wireless infrastructure.
(1)
Removal for county improvement. Within 90 days following written notice from the county, a permit holder shall, at its own expense, protect, support, temporarily or permanently disconnect, remove, relocate, change or alter the position of any of its permitted wireless infrastructure within the rights-of-way if the county has determined that such removal, relocation, change or alteration is reasonably necessary for the construction, repair, maintenance, or installation of any county improvement in or upon, or the operations of the county in or upon, the rights-of-way. The county will work in good faith with the permit holder to identify and promptly approve one or more acceptable alternate locations for any permitted facilities that are removed, relocated, changed, or altered pursuant to this subparagraph.
(2)
Removal for noncompliance. The county may remove permitted wireless infrastructure after 45 days following a permit revocation described in Section 4 (B) of this section.
(3)
Emergency removal or relocation of facilities. The county retains the right and privilege to cut or move any wireless infrastructure located within the ROW, as the county may determine to be necessary, appropriate or useful in response to any public health or safety emergency. If circumstances allow, the county shall notify the permit holder and provide the permit holder a reasonable opportunity to move its own wireless infrastructure prior to cutting or removing a facility and shall notify the permit holder after cutting or removing wireless infrastructure.
(4)
Abandonment of facilities. The permit holder shall notify the county within 90 days of any abandonment of a wireless infrastructure for which a permit has been issued under this section. The county may also determine that wireless infrastructure is abandoned in fact, following a reasonable investigation and failure of the permit holder to respond to written communication within 30 days. In the event of abandonment, the county may direct the permit holder to remove all or any portion of the wireless infrastructure if the county, or any of its departments, determines that such removal will be in the best interest of the public health, safety and welfare. If permit holder does not remove facilities as directed within a reasonable period of time, the county may remove such facilities, and shall be entitled to obtain reimbursement from the permit holder for the county's actual cost in effecting such removal. Facilities removed by the county will be held, maintained, and disposed in accordance with applicable law.
(5)
Removal. The county shall notify the permit holder in writing within ten days of any removal of wireless infrastructure by the County under this section.
(i)
ROW rates—Annual rate. An applicant authorized to place small cell wireless infrastructure in the ROW shall pay to the county compensation for use of the ROW in the amount of $250.00 annually per permitted small cell wireless facility.
(j)
Attachment to county-owned utility poles in the ROW.
(1)
No grant of attachment rights. A permit issued under this section does not confer any right to attach wireless facilities to county-owned or privately-owned utility poles or wireless support structures, which applicant acknowledges must be obtained through attachment agreements or similar documents with the county or such private pole or structure owner. The county may cause a permit under this section to be made temporary or conditional upon the applicant's demonstration of its attachment rights for the particular pole or structure in question.
(2)
Make-ready. For county-owned utility poles in the rights-of-way, the county shall provide a good faith estimate for any make-ready work necessary to enable the pole to support the requested small cell wireless facility, including pole replacement if necessary, within 30 days after receipt of a completed request.
(k)
Relief. Any applicant desiring relief or exemption from any aspect or requirement of this section may request such from the board of commissioners at a pre-application meeting, provided that the relief or exemption is contained in the original application, or in the case of an existing or previously approved application a request for alteration of its proposed facilities. Such relief may be temporary or permanent, partial or complete, at the sole discretion of the board of commissioners. However, the burden of proving the need for the requested relief or exemption is solely on the applicant to prove. The applicant shall bear all costs in considering the request and the relief shall not be transferable to a new or different holder of the permit or owner of the facilities without the specific written permission of the board of commissioners. No such relief or exemption shall be approved unless the applicant demonstrates by clear and convincing evidence that, if granted, the relief or exemption will have no significant detrimental effect on the health, safety and welfare of the county, its residents and other service providers.
(l)
Other provisions.
(1)
Indemnification. Any application for a permit pursuant to this section shall contain a provision with respect to indemnification. Such provision shall require the applicant, to at all times defend, indemnify, protect, save, hold harmless, and exempt the county, and its officers, employees, committee members, attorneys, agents, and consultants from any and all liabilities, judgments, penalties, damages, costs, charges and cost of defense arising out of any and all claims, suits, demands, causes of action, or award of damages, whether compensatory or punitive, or expenses arising therefrom, either at law or in equity, which arise or might arise directly or indirectly out of, or are caused by, the placement, construction, erection, alteration, location, products performance, use, operation, maintenance, repair, installation, replacement, removal, or restoration of said wireless infrastructure. With respect to the liabilities, judgments, penalties, damages costs, charges and cost of defense referenced herein, these include, but are not limited to, reasonable attorneys' fees, consultants' fees, and expert witness fees.
(2)
Insurance.
a.
A permit holder shall secure and at all times maintain the following insurance coverages covering wireless infrastructure permitted under this section:
1.
Commercial general liability insurance covering personal injuries, death and property damage: $1,000,000.00 per occurrence/$2,000,000.00 aggregate.
2.
Automobile liability coverage of $1,000,000.00 per occurrence/ $2,000,000.00 aggregate.
3.
Workers' compensation and disability: insurance in the amounts required by the laws of the state.
b.
The commercial general liability insurance policy shall specifically include the county and its officers, employees, committee members, attorneys, agents and consultants as additional named insureds.
c.
The insurance policies shall be issued by an agent or representative of an insurance company licensed and in good standing to do business in the state and with a best's rating of at least A. The insurance policies shall contain an endorsement obligating the insurance company to furnish the county with at least 30 days prior written notice in advance of the cancellation of the insurance.
d.
Renewal or replacement policies or certificates shall be delivered to the county at least 15 days before the expiration of the insurance which such policies are to renew or replace.
e.
The applicant shall provide a copy of each of the policies or certificates of insurance representing the insurance in the required amounts.
f.
Notwithstanding the foregoing, an applicant shall have the right to self-insure the coverages required by this subsection b. as long as it or its parent company maintains a net worth of at least $300,000,000.00.
(3)
Assignment. A permit holder shall not assign its rights or obligations under any permit, nor any part of such rights or obligations, without the prior written consent of the county, which consent shall not be unreasonably withheld, conditioned, or delayed. Notwithstanding the foregoing, a permit holder may, without the consent of the county and following 30 days' prior written notice to the county, assign its rights and obligations under any permit to any person or entity controlling, controlled by, or under common control with the permit holder. In both instances, the assignee must demonstrate to the county compliance with all provisions of this section, specifically including, without limitation, subsections (l)(1), (2).
(4)
Receivership, foreclosure or act of bankruptcy.
a.
The right ta use the rights-of way granted hereunder to a permit holder shall, at the option of the county, cease and terminate 120 days after the filing of bankruptcy or the appointment of a receiver or receivers or trustee or trustees to take over and conduct the business of the permit holder whether in a receivership, reorganization, bankruptcy or other action or proceeding unless such receivership or trusteeship shall have been vacated prior to the expiration of said 120 days, or unless such receivers or trustees shall have, within 120 days after their election or appointment, fully complied with all the terms and provisions of this section.
b.
In the case of foreclosure or other judicial sale of the plant, property and equipment of a permit holder, or any part thereof, the county may serve notice of termination upon the permit holder and the successful bidder at such sale, in which event any permit granted under this section shall cease and terminate 30 days after service of such notice, unless: a) the county shall have approved the transfer of a permit to the successful bidder, and b) such successful bidder shall have covenanted and agreed with the county to assume and be bound by all the terms and conditions of the permit.
(5)
Performance security. The applicant shall at its cost and expense be required to execute and file with the county a bond or other form of security acceptable to the county as to type of security and the form and manner of execution, in an amount of at least $200,000.00 and with such sureties as are deemed sufficient by the board of commissioners to assure the faithful performance of the terms and conditions of this section and all permits held by the applicant. The full amount of the bond or security shall remain in full force and effect until the removal of all permitted facilities, and any necessary site restoration is completed. The failure to pay any annual premium for the renewal of any such security shall be a violation of the provisions of this section and shall entitle the board of commissioners to revoke approved applications after prior written notice to the applicant and after a hearing upon due prior notice to the applicant. Notwithstanding the foregoing, an applicant shall not be required to execute or file any bond or security as long as it or its parent company maintains a net worth of at least $300,000,000.00.
(m)
Severability. If any word, phrase, sentence, part, section, subsection, or other portion of this section, or any application thereof to any person or circumstance, is declared void, unconstitutional, or invalid for any reason, then such word, phrase, sentence, part, section, subsection, or other portion, or the proscribed application thereof, shall be severable, and the remaining provisions of this section, and all applications thereof, not having been declared void, unconstitutional, or invalid, shall remain in full force and effect.
(n)
Government entities. Wireless infrastructure owned by the county, the county school district, the state or the United States government, and used or held for use for governmental purposes, is not subject to the provisions of this section.
(Ord. of 9-4-2018(1) , Arts. 1, 2, § 8; Ord. of 12-4-2018(1) , § 8.3; Ord. of 12-03-2019(2) , art. 1)
