Chapter 14 - PARKS AND RECREATION[1]

Footnotes:
--- (1) ---
Cross reference— Alcoholic beverages in parks, § 3-6.

Sec. 14-1. - Supervision, etc., of recreational facilities and activities.
The parks and recreation department shall have oversight of public playgrounds, parks, indoor recreation centers, and other recreational or cultural facilities owned or controlled by the city. It may conduct or sponsor any form of recreational or cultural activity that will employ the leisure of the people in a wholesome or constructive manner. It may conduct such activities on properties under its control on public properties with the consent of the authorities thereof, and on private properties with the consent of the owners.
(Code 1972, § 4-201; Ord. No. 2017-009 , § 3, 4-17-17)
Sec. 14-2. - Operating policy of parks and pools.
(a)
City parks shall be opened daily to the public. Any section or part of a park may be declared closed to the public by the director of the parks and recreation department at any time and for any interval of time, either temporarily or at regular or stated intervals.
(b)
Hours for public swimming at city operated swimming pools shall be from 12:00 noon to 7:00 p.m. of any one (1) day during June, July, and August of each year; except that the director of the parks and recreation department may have the swimming pool closed during inclement weather, where unsanitary water conditions exist, or for any special event.
(c)
Whenever any association or organization desires to use said park facilities for a particular purpose, such as picnics, parties or theatrical or entertainment performances, a representative of said association or organization shall first obtain a permit from the city for such purposes. The director of the parks and recreation department may adopt an application form to be used for such situations. The city shall grant the application if it appears that the association or organization will not interfere with the general use of the park by the individual members of the public and if the association or organization meets all other conditions contained in the application. The application may contain a requirement for an indemnity bond to protect the city from any liability of any kind or character and to protect city property from damage, and shall contain such a provision if the swimming pool is to be utilized by said association or organization.
(d)
No person in a park shall:
(1)
Picnic or lunch in a place other than one (1) designated for that purpose. Attendants shall have the authority to regulate the activities in such areas when necessary to prevent congestion and to secure the maximum use for the comfort and convenience of all. Visitors shall comply with any directions given to achieve this end.
(2)
Use any portion of the picnic areas or of any of the buildings or structures therein for the purpose of holding picnics to the exclusion of other persons, nor shall any person use such area and facilities for an unreasonable time if the facilities are crowded.
(3)
Leave a picnic area before the fire is completely extinguished and before all trash in the nature of boxes, papers, cans bottles, garbage and other refuse is placed in the disposal receptacles where provided. If no such trash receptacles are available, then refuse and trash shall be carried away from the park area by the picnicker to be properly disposed of elsewhere.
(Code 1972, § 4-203; Ord. No. 2017-009 , § 3, 4-17-17)
Sec. 14-3. - Illegal acts in park.
No person in a park shall:
(1)
Willfully mark, deface, disfigure, damage, tamper with, displace or remove any buildings, bridges, tables, benches, fireplaces, railings, paving or paving material, water lines or other public utilities or parts or appurtenances thereof, signs, notices or placards, whether temporary or permanent, monuments, stakes, posts, or other boundary markers, or other structures or equipment, facilities or park property or appurtenances whatsoever, either real or personal.
(2)
Fail to cooperate in maintaining rest rooms and washrooms in a neat and sanitary condition.
(3)
Throw, discharge, or otherwise place or cause to be placed in the waters of any fountain, pond, lake, stream, bay or other body of water in or adjacent to any park or any tributary, stream, storm sewer, or drain flowing into such waters, any substance, matter or thing, liquid or solid, which will or may result in the pollution of said waters.
(4)
Have brought in or dump, deposit or leave any bottles, broken glass, ashes, paper, boxes, cans, dirt, rubbish, waste, garbage, or refuse, or other trash. No such refuse or trash shall be placed in any waters in or contiguous to any park, or left anywhere on the grounds thereof, but shall be placed in the proper receptacles where these are provided; where receptacles are not so provided, all such rubbish or waste shall be carried away from the park by the person responsible for its presence, and properly disposed of elsewhere.
(Code 1972, § 4-202)
Sec. 14-4. - Dressing or undressing only in proper place in park.
No person in a park shall dress or undress on any bench, or in any vehicle, toilet or other place, except in such bathing houses or structures as may be provided for that purpose.
(Code 1972, § 4-204)
Sec. 14-5. - Speed of vehicles in park.
It shall be unlawful for any person to operate a motor vehicle in any area in the park in excess of fifteen (15) miles per hour.
(Code 1972, § 4-205)
Sec. 14-6. - Merchandising, advertising and signs.
No person in a park shall:
(1)
Expose or offer for sale any article or thing, or station or place any stand, cart, or vehicle for the transportation, sale or display of any article or thing.
(2)
Announce, advertise, or call the public attention in any way to any article or service for sale or hire.
(3)
Paste, glue, tack or otherwise post any sign, placard, advertisement, or inscription whatever, or erect or cause to be erected any sign whatever on any public lands or highways or roads adjacent to a park.
Exception to this section is hereby made as to any regularly licensed concessionaire acting by and under the authority and regulation of the city.
(Code 1972, § 4-206)
Sec. 14-7. - Bow hunting.
For archery hunting of deer only, and only during such hunting season(s) as may be authorized by the state department of natural resources, the property owned by the city and identified as county tax assessor's parcel number 19074800010 fronting Dallas Powder Springs Road will be open to those individuals possessing a valid hunting license issued by the state and a valid permit issued by the city. Application for such hunting privileges shall be made to the city police department on forms supplied by the department. The department may from time to time prescribe rules governing hunting under this section, including completion of a training class.
(Ord. No 2016-22 , § 1, 9-19-16)
