ARTICLE II. - COUNCIL MEETINGS

Sec. 2-20. - Regular meetings.
The regular meetings of the council shall be held on the first and third Mondays of January, February, March, April, May, June, October, and November, on the third Monday of July, August and September, and on the first Monday of December, with such changes as may be announced at a public meeting and posted at city hall. Regular meetings shall be convened at 7:00 p.m. at city hall or at such alternate location as may be announced at a public meeting and posted at city hall. In addition to the foregoing scheduled regular meetings, the council shall meet on the Wednesday next preceding each of said scheduled meetings for the purposes of conducting a regular agenda work session meeting in advance of said scheduled regular meetings. Regular agenda work sessions shall be convened at 5:00 p.m. in the second floor conference room of city hall or at such alternate location as may be announced at a public meeting and posted at city hall. Notice of all such meetings shall be provided in accordance with the law.
(Code 1972, § 2-101; Ord. No. 2002-03, § 1, 3-18-02; Ord. No. 2010-60, § 1, 1-3-11)
Charter reference— Council meeting time and place as specified by ordinance, § 2.19.
Sec. 2-21. - Special meetings.
Special meetings of the council may be held in accordance with the provisions of section 2.19 of the Charter.
(Code 1972, § 2-102)
Sec. 2-22. - Order of business.
At each meeting of the council the following regular order of business shall be observed unless dispensed with by a majority vote of the members present:
(1)
Call to order by the mayor.
(2)
Reading of minutes of the previous meeting by the city clerk for correction and approval.
(3)
Grievances from citizens.
(4)
Communications from the mayor.
(5)
Reports from committees, the mayor, members of the council and other offices.
(6)
Old business.
(7)
New business.
(8)
Adjournment.
(Code 1972, § 2-103)
Sec. 2-23. - General rules of order.
Except as otherwise provided in the Charter or this Code, the rules of order and parliamentary procedure contained in "Robert's Rules of Order, Newly Revised," shall govern the transaction of business by and before the council at its meetings.
(Code 1972, § 2-104)
Sec. 2-24. - Disturbing meetings.
It shall be unlawful to engage in disorderly or contemptuous behavior which disturbs any meeting of the council.
(Code 1972, § 2-105)
Sec. 2-25. - Compensation of mayor and councilmembers.
The compensation of the mayor is hereby established at one thousand dollars ($1,000.00) per month. The compensation of each councilmember is hereby established at seven hundred fifty dollars ($750.00) per month. Expenses actually and necessarily incurred by the mayor and council in carrying out their official duties shall be reimbursed by the city upon receipt of the same.
(Code 1972, § 2-106; Ord. No. 2000-27, 11-6-00)
Sec. 2-26. - Legislation—General procedure.
The introduction, enactment and recording of city legislation shall be accomplished under the provisions of sections 2.22, 2.23, 2.24 and other applicable sections of the Charter.
(Code 1972, § 2-201)
Sec. 2-27. - Same—Effective date.
Except as otherwise provided by any ordinance or state law:
(1)
All ordinances or resolutions not vetoed by the mayor shall be effective five (5) days after passage thereof.
(2)
All ordinances and resolutions vetoed by the mayor shall be effective upon the final passage thereof as provided in section 2.33 of the Charter by the council.
(Code 1972, § 2-202)
Sec. 2-28. - Same—Official copy.
A true copy of an ordinance which has been duly enacted by the council, signed by the mayor, and attested to by the city clerk, shall be known as an official copy of an ordinance of the city.
(Code 1972, § 2-203)
Sec. 2-29. - Same—Ordinances appropriating money.
No appropriation ordinance or ordinance to alter or repeal an appropriation ordinance shall be enacted at any meeting other than a regular meeting or at a meeting called and announced at a regular meeting except by a unanimous vote of the full membership of the council.
(Code 1972, § 2-204)
Sec. 2-30. - Procedures for adopting ordinances.
(a)
Unless an emergency exists as defined in section 2.24 of the charter, an ordinance may be adopted at a subsequent regular or special meeting of the mayor and council after the meeting at which the proposed ordinance was read.
(b)
Proposed ordinances which have already been read at a prior meeting shall be posted in a conspicuous public place outside council chambers prior to the meeting at which the proposed ordinances are adopted.
(c)
If a proposed ordinance is not adopted at the next regular meeting after it has been read, then it must be read again before passage as if it is a newly introduced ordinance.
(d)
Amendments to a proposed ordinance shall not be treated as new ordinances so long as they do not change the subject matter addressed by the proposed ordinance.
Editor's note— Ord. No. 88-5, adopted Feb. 1, 1988, did not specifically amend this Code; hence, inclusion of §§ 1—4 as § 2-30 was at the discretion of the editor.
Charter reference— Rules of procedure, § 2.20; ordinance form, procedures, § 2.23.
Sec. 2-31. - Rules of procedure for public participation in Powder Springs City Council and board meetings.
The City of Powder Springs welcomes visitors to all public meetings and is willing to hear any person desiring to appear before the council who is not currently an announced candidate for public office.
(1)
Council meetings. Persons wishing to address the mayor and council shall do so during the public comment portion of the agenda after having been recognized by the presiding officer.
a.
A total of twelve (12) speakers are allowed to address the city council during each regular meeting of the council. These speakers shall sign-up with the city clerk on a first-come basis with sign up to begin twenty (20) minutes before the beginning of the meeting. No prior reservations will be taken for these slots.
b.
Speakers will be limited to five (5) minutes.
c.
An extension to the sixty (60) minute scheduled public comment section, and/or an extension of the five (5) minute limit per person, may be granted by a majority vote of the council.
d.
If several citizens wish to speak on the same subject, it is encouraged that one be chosen to speak and others express their support. It is encouraged that one not repeat the subject matter.
e.
Public comments should concern matters that are the business of the city; it is not a time for political speeches or advertisements for personal business or interests.
f.
After each individual speaker's remarks have concluded, the mayor may, but shall not be required to, briefly respond, either personally or through another member of the council whom the mayor shall delegate.
g.
Matters pertaining to personnel procedures or personnel grievances will not be heard during public comments. Those should be directed to the city manager.
h.
All persons speaking during public comments shall follow the rules of conduct for public comment, as set forth in subsection (3) of these rules and procedures.
(2)
Public hearings.
a.
Persons wishing to address the council or other city board or commission in duly advertised public hearings shall sign up with the city clerk on a first come basis with sign up to begin twenty (20) minutes before the beginning of the meeting. No prior reservations will be taken. Speakers will be heard first in support of the matter in question followed by those in opposition.
b.
In accordance with O.C.G.A. § 36-66-5, in all hearings required by O.C.G.A. § 36-66-4, the applicant and proponents of each zoning decision shall be allowed not less than ten (10) minutes for presentation of data, evidence and opinion. The opponents of such decision shall have an equal time of not less than ten (10) minutes for presentation.
c.
All persons speaking during public hearings shall follow the rules of conduct for public comment, as set forth in subsection (3) of these rules of procedure.
(3)
Rules of conduct for public comment.
a.
All persons, other than salaried members of the city staff, shall address the council, commission, or other public body in the following manner:
1.
State his/her name and address.
2.
If requested by the council, the speaker may be required to state:
(i)
Whether he/she is speaking for himself/herself or for another;
(ii)
If he/she represents an organization or represents a policy established by an organization or governing body and whether he/she is being compensated by the person(s) for whom he/she speaks;
(iii)
Whether he/she or any member of his/her immediate family has a personal interest in the pending matter.
b.
Citizens may address the mayor and council as a whole, but comments may not be directed to particular members or any city employee. Any comments directed at particular members of council, the mayor, or any city employee will be ruled out of order by the mayor or presiding officer.
c.
The public comments period is not a time for questions or dialogue between a citizen and the mayor and council members other than for clarification of facts or issues as requested by the mayor and council members. It is a time to express concerns or views of the citizens. City staff will follow up, as appropriate, with any concerns that need to be addressed by the city.
d.
No person shall make impertinent, derogatory, offensive or slanderous remarks while addressing the mayor or council.
e.
The failure of any citizen to comply with these rules may be grounds for the mayor or presiding officer to rule the citizen out of order. If the citizen fails to comply with the directions of the mayor or presiding officer, they may be removed from the meeting or any other action may be taken by a law enforcement officer as provided by law. A person may be barred from further speaking before the council in that meeting if his/her conduct is deemed out of order.
(Ord. No. 97-18, 9-18-97; Ord. No. 2022-003 , §§ 1, 2, 2-21-22)
Secs. 2-32—2-39. - Reserved.
