ARTICLE IV. - SEWERS[4]

Footnotes:
--- (4) ---
Cross reference— Sewage disposal, § 10-40 et seq.

Sec. 11-70. - Definitions.
As used in this article, the following terms shall have the respective meanings ascribed to them:
Act or the Act: The Federal Water Pollution Control Act, also known as the Clean Water Act, as amended, 33 U.S.C. 1251 et seq.
Biochemical oxygen demand (BOD): The quantity of oxygen utilized in the biochemical oxidation of organic matter under standard laboratory procedure in five (5) days at twenty (20) degrees Celsius, expressed in milligrams per liter.
Chemical oxygen demand (COD): A measure of oxygen equivalent of that portion of the organic matter in a sample that is susceptible to oxidation by a strong chemical oxidant.
Cooling water: The water discharged from any use such as air conditioning, cooling or refrigeration, or to which the only pollutant added is heat.
Environmental protection agency (EPA): The U.S. Environmental Protection Agency, or where appropriate the term may also be use as a designation for the administrator or other duly authorized official of said agency.
Floatable oil: Oil, fat or grease in a physical state such that it will separate by gravity from wastewater by treatment in an approved pretreatment facility. A wastewater shall be considered free of floatable fat if it is properly pretreated and the wastewater does not interfere with the collection system.
Garbage: The animal and vegetable waste resulting from the handling, preparation, cooking and serving of foods.
Holding tank waste: Any waste from holding tanks such as vessels, chemical toilets, campers, trailers, septic tanks, and vacuum-pump tank trucks.
Indirect discharge: The discharge of the introduction of nondomestic pollutants from any source regulated under section 307(b) or (c) of the act (33 U.S.C. 1317), into the POTW (including holding tank waste discharged into the system).
Industrial user: A source of indirect discharge which does not constitute a "discharge of pollutants" under regulations issued pursuant to section 402 of the act (33 U.S.C. 1342).
Industrial waste surcharge: The charge made in excess of the sewer service charge for all wastewater over and above normal wastewater.
Industrial wastes: The wastewater from industrial processes as distinct from domestic or sanitary wastes.
Interference: The inhibition or disruption of the POTW treatment processes or operations which contributes to a violation of any requirement of the county's NPDES permit. The term includes prevention of sewage sludge use or disposal by the POTW in accordance with section 405 of the act (33 U.S.C. 1345) or any criteria, guidelines or regulations developed pursuant to the Solid Waste Disposal Act (SWDA), the Clean Air Act, the Toxic Substances Control Act, or more stringent state criteria (including those contained in any state sludge management plan prepared pursuant to title IV of SWDA) applicable to the method of disposal or use employed by the POTW.
Manager: The public works director of the city.
National categorical pretreatment standard or pretreatment standard: Any regulation containing pollutant discharge limits promulgated by the EPA in accordance with section 307(b) and (c) of the act (33 U.S.C. 1347) which applies to a specific category of industrial users.
National pollution discharge elimination system or NPDES permit: A permit issued pursuant to section 402 of the act (33 U.S.C 1342).
Natural outlet: Any outlet, including storm sewers and combined sewer overflows, into a watercourse, pond, ditch, lake or other body of surface water or groundwater.
Normal wastewater: Wastewater discharged into the sanitary sewers in which the average concentration of total suspended solids and BOD is not more than three hundred (300) mg/l, total phosphorus is not more than fifteen (15) mg/l, total Kjeldahl nitrogen is not more eighteen (18) mg/l; and total flow is not more than twenty-five thousand (25,000) gallons per day.
pH: The logarithm (base 10) of the reciprocal of the concentration of hydrogen ions expressed in grams per liter of solution.
Pollutant: Any dredged spoil, solid waste, incinerator residue, sewage, garbage, sewage sludge, munitions, chemical wastes, biological materials, radioactive materials, heat, wrecked or discharged equipment, rock, sand, cellar dirt and industrial, municipal and agricultural waste discharged into water.
Pollution: The manmade or man-induced alteration of the chemical, physical, biological and radiological integrity of water.
Pretreatment or treatment: The reduction of the amount of pollutants, the elimination of pollutants, or the alteration of the nature of pollutants, or the alteration of the nature of pollutant properties in wastewater to a less harmful state prior to or in lieu of discharging or otherwise introducing such pollutants into a POTW. The reduction or alteration can be obtained by physical, chemical or biological processes, or by process changes or other means, except as prohibited by 40 CFR section 403.6(d).
Properly shredded garbage: The wastes from the preparation, cooking and dispensing of food that has been shredded to such a degree that all particles will be carried freely under the flow conditions normally prevailing in public sewers, with no particle greater than one-half-inch in any dimension.
Publicly owned treatment works (POTW): A treatment works as defined by section 212 of the act (U.S.C. 1292) which is owned in this instance by the county or the city. This definition includes any sewers that convey wastewater to the POTW treatment plant, but does not include pipes, sewers or other conveyances not connected to a facility providing treatment.
Suspended solids: Total suspended matter that either floats on the surface of, or is in suspension in, water, wastewater, or other liquids, and that is removable by laboratory filtering as prescribed in "Standard Methods for the Examination of Water and Wastewater" and referred to as nonfilterable residue.
Toxic pollutant: Any pollutant or combination of pollutants listed as toxic in regulations promulgated by the administrator of the EPA.
User: Any person who contributes, causes or permits the contribution of wastewater into the POTW.
Wastewater: The spent water of a community. From the standpoint of source, it may be a combination of the liquid and water-carried wastes from residences, commercial buildings, industrial plants, and institutions, together with any groundwater, surface water and storm-water that may be present.
Watercourse: A natural or artificial channel for the passage of water either continuously or intermittently.
(Ord. No. 86-9, § 1, 4-7-86)
Sec. 11-71. - Abbreviations.
The following abbreviations shall have the designated meanings:
EXPAND
BOD — Biochemical oxygen demand
CFR — Code of Federal Regulations
COD — Chemical oxygen demand
EPA — Environmental Protection Agency
l — Liter
mg — Milligrams
mg/l — Milligrams per liter
NPDES — National pollutant discharge elimination system
POTW — Publicly owned treatment works
SIC — Standard Industrial Classification
SWDA — Solid Waste Disposal Act, 42 U.S.C. 6901 et seq.
TSS — Total suspended solids
USC — United States Code
  (Ord. No. 86-9, § 2, 4-7-86)
Sec. 11-72. - Powers and authority of inspectors.
(a)
Duly authorized employees of the city bearing proper credentials and identification shall be permitted to enter all properties for the purposes of inspection, observation, measurement, sampling, and testing pertinent to discharge to the sewer system in accordance with the provisions hereof.
(b)
While performing the necessary work on private properties referred to herein, the authorized employees of the city shall observe all safety rules applicable to the premises established by the company, and the company shall be held harmless for injury or death to said employees, and the city shall indemnify the company against loss or damage to its property by said employees and against liability claims and demands for personal injury or property damage asserted against the company, except as such may be caused by negligence or failure of the company to maintain safe conditions.
(c)
Said duly authorized employees of the city shall be permitted to enter all private properties through which the city holds an easement for the purposes of, but not limited to, inspection, observation, measurement, sampling, repair, and maintenance of any portion of the waste water facilities lying with said easement. All entry and subsequent work, if any, on said easement, shall be done in full accordance with the terms of the easement involved.
(Ord. No. 86-9, § 3, 4-7-86)
Sec. 11-73. - Compliance with regulatory requirements.
(a)
General: The provisions of this article shall not be deemed as alleviating compliance with applicable state and federal regulations. Specific user charge and industrial cost recovery requirements, promulgated pursuant to Public Law 92-500, shall be considered as a part of this article upon official adoption. All nonresidential users will be required to comply with pretreatment standards as outlined in title 40 of the CFR, part 403.
(b)
Federal categorical pretreatment standards: Upon the promulgation of the federal categorical pretreatment standards for a particular industrial subcategory, the federal standard, if more stringent than limitations imposed hereunder for sources in that subcategory, shall immediately supersede the limitations imposed hereunder. The manager shall notify all affected users of the applicable reporting requirements under 40 CFR, section 403.12.
(c)
Modifications of federal categorical pretreatment standards: In the event the county modifies said standards in accordance with the law in such cases provided, such modifications shall immediately supersede the limitations imposed hereunder.
(d)
State requirements: State requirements and limitations on discharges shall apply in any case where they are more stringent than federal or county requirements and limitations or those hereunder.
(e)
Right to revise to more stringent limitations: The city reserves the right to establish by ordinance more stringent limitations or requirements on discharges to the wastewater disposal system if deemed necessary to comply with objectives stated in the preamble hereof.
(f)
Excessive discharge: No user shall ever increase the use of process water or, in any way, attempt to dilute a discharge as a partial or complete substitute for adequate treatment to achieve compliance with the limitations contained in the federal categorical pretreatment standards, or in any other pollutant-specific limitations developed by the city, county or state, unless specifically allowed in the categorical pretreatment standards established by EPA.
(g)
Accidental discharges:
(1)
Protection: Each user shall provide protection from accidental discharge of prohibited materials or other substances regulated by this article. Facilities to prevent accidental discharge of prohibited materials shall be provided and maintained at the owner's or user's own cost and expense. Detailed plans showing facilities and operating procedures to provide this protection shall be submitted to the city for review, and shall be approved by same before construction of the facility. All existing users shall complete such a plan within four (4) months after adoption hereof. No user who commences contribution to the POTW after the effective date hereof shall be permitted to introduce pollutants into the system until accidental discharge procedures have been approved by the city. Review and approval of such plans and operating procedures shall not relieve the industrial user from the responsibility to modify the user's facility as necessary to meet the requirements hereof. In the case of an accidental discharge, it is the responsibility of the user to immediately telephone and notify the POTW (the county, as well as the city) of the incident. The notification shall include location of discharge, type of waste, concentration and volume, and corrective actions.
(2)
Written notice: Within five (5) days following an accidental discharge, the user shall submit to the POTW (the county, as well as the city) a detailed written report describing the cause of the discharge and the measures to be taken by the user to prevent similar future occurrences. Such notification shall not relieve the user of any expense, loss, damage or other liability which may be incurred as a result of damage to the POTW, fish kills or any other damage to person or property; nor shall such notification relieve the user of any fines, civil penalties or other liability which may be imposed hereunder or other applicable law.
(3)
Notice to employees: A notice shall be permanently posted on the user's bulletin board or other prominent place advising employees whom to call in the event of a dangerous discharge or accidental discharge. Employers shall ensure that all employees who may cause or suffer such a dangerous or accidental discharge to occur are advised of the emergency notification procedure.
(Ord. No. 86-9, § 4, 4-7-86)
Sec. 11-74. - Cause for service disconnection.
The city reserves the right to terminate water and wastewater disposal services and disconnect a customer from the system when:
(1)
Acids or chemicals damaging to sewer lines or treatment process are released into the sewer causing rapid deterioration of these structures or interfering with proper conveyance and treatment of wastewater; or
(2)
A governmental agency informs the city that the effluent from the wastewater treatment plant is no longer of a quality permitted for discharge into a watercourse, and it is found that the customer is delivering wastewater to the system that cannot be sufficiently treated or requires treatment that is not provided by the county as normal domestic treatment; or
(3)
The customer:
a.
Discharges industrial waste or wastewater that is in violation of the permit issued by the approving authority;
b.
Discharges wastewater at an uncontrolled, variable rate in sufficient quantity to cause an imbalance in the wastewater treatment systems;
c.
Fails to pay monthly bills for water and sanitary sewer services when due; or
d.
Repeats a discharge of prohibited wastes into public sewers.
(Ord. No. 86-9, § 5, 4-7-86)
Sec. 11-75. - Unauthorized connections prohibited; penalty.
No person shall make an unauthorized water or sewer connection or obtain unauthorized water or sewer services. Persons so obtaining unauthorized connection or service shall be subject to the maximum penalty fee allowed by law and shall also be guilty of a misdemeanor.
(Ord. No. 86-9, § 6, 4-7-86; Ord. No. 2010-52, § 4, 11-15-10)
Sec. 11-76. - Violations.
(a)
Violations a misdemeanor: Violation of this article shall be a misdemeanor punishable under the laws of the state and under the charter and Code of the city.
(b)
Suspension of service: The city may suspend the wastewater treatment service and/or wastewater contribution permit when such suspension is necessary, in the opinion of the city, in order to stop an actual or threatened discharge which presents or may present an imminent or substantial endangerment to the health or welfare of persons or to the environment, causes interference to the POTW, or causes the county to violate any conditions of its NPDES permit.
(c)
Elimination of contribution required: Any person notified of a suspension of the wastewater treatment service and/or the wastewater contribution permit shall immediately stop or eliminate the contribution. In the event of a failure of the person to comply voluntarily with the suspension order, the city shall take such steps as deemed necessary, including initiation of legal action and immediate severance of the sewer connection, to prevent or minimize damage to the POTW system or endangerment to any individuals. The city shall reinstate the wastewater contribution permit and/or the wastewater treatment service upon proof of the elimination of the noncomplying discharge. A detailed written statement submitted by the user describing the causes of the harmful contribution and the measures taken to prevent any future occurrence shall be submitted to the city within fifteen (15) calendar days of the date of occurrence.
(d)
Permit revocation: Any user who violates the following conditions of this section or applicable state and federal regulations is subject to having such person's permit revoked in accordance with the procedures of this section:
(1)
Failure of a user to report factually the wastewater constituents and characteristics of such user's discharge.
(2)
Failure of the user to report significant changes in operations, or wastewater constituents and characteristics.
(3)
Refusal of reasonable access to the user's premises for the purpose of inspection or monitoring.
(4)
Violation of conditions of the permit.
(e)
Service of notice; plan of correction: Whenever the city finds that any user has violated or is violating this article, wastewater contribution permit, or any prohibitions, limitation or requirements contained herein, the city may serve upon such person a written notice stating the nature of the violation. Within thirty (30) days of the date of the notice, a plan for the satisfactory correction thereof shall be submitted to the city by the user. Each quarter, the city will publish in the local newspapers the list of violators of this article for that quarter.
(f)
Verbal, written notice of violation: In the event of violation of this article, the authorized employees of the city may verbally instruct the owner as to the necessary corrective action. If the owner fails to carry out verbal instructions in a timely manner or if a serious violation or hazard to public health exists, the city may issue to the owner a written order stating the nature of the violation, the corrective action and the time limit for completing the corrective action. This time limit will be not less than twenty-four (24) hours nor more than six (6) months depending upon the type and severity of the violation. The offender shall, within the period of time stated in such notice, permanently cease all violations. The record of the mailing of said notice or order shall be prima facie evidence thereof, and failure of said owner or owners to receive same shall in no way affect the validity of any proceeding conducted pursuant to this article.
(g)
Legal action authorized: If any person discharges sewage, industrial wastes or other wastes into the city's wastewater disposal system contrary to the provisions of this article, federal or state pretreatment requirements, or any order of the city, the city attorney may commence an action for appropriate legal and/or equitable relief in the appropriate court.
(h)
Fines:
(1)
Any user who is found to have violated an order of the city or who wilfully or negligently failed to comply with any provision of this article, and the orders, rules, regulations and permits issued hereunder, shall be fined not less than one hundred dollars ($100.00) nor more than the maximum permitted by law for each offense. Each day on which a violation shall occur or continue shall be deemed a separate and distinct offense. In addition to the penalties provided herein, the city may recover reasonable attorney's fees, court costs, court reporters' fees and other expenses of litigation by appropriate suit at law against the person found to have violated this article or the orders, rules, regulations and permits issued hereunder.
(2)
Any person who knowingly makes any false statements, representation or certification in any application, record, plan or other document filed or required to be maintained pursuant to this article or wastewater contribution permits, or who falsifies, tampers with or knowingly renders inaccurate any monitoring device or method required under this article shall, upon conviction, be punished as provided in section 1-8.
(3)
A person violating any provision of this section authorizing the aforementioned action by the city shall be charged the normal and usual charges for discontinuance and disconnection of said water and sewer services and the usual charges for recommencing said water and sewer services.
(Ord. No. 86-9, § 7, 4-7-86)
Sec. 11-77. - Permit required for industrial sewer user.
Every industrial sewer user shall obtain a permit for contribution to the sewer system of the city at such fee as may be established by the city from time to time.
(Ord. No. 86-9, § 7, 4-7-86)
Sec. 11-78. - Discharge of polluted waters into natural outlets prohibited; exception.
It shall be unlawful to discharge to any natural outlet within the city's sewer service area any wastewater or other polluted waters, except where suitable treatment has been provided in accordance with this article.
(Ord. No. 86-9, § 8, 4-7-86)
Sec. 11-79. - Discharge of unpolluted waters into sewer prohibited.
No person shall discharge or cause to be discharged any unpolluted waters such as stormwater, groundwater, roof runoff, subsurface drainage or cooling water to any sewer.
(Ord. No. 86-9, § 9, 4-7-86)
Sec. 11-80. - Waters, wastes specifically prohibited in sewers.
No person shall discharge or cause to be discharged any of the following described waters or wastes to any public sewers:
(1)
Any gasoline, benzene, naphtha, fuel oil, or other flammable or explosive liquid, solid or gas.
(2)
Any waters containing toxic or poisonous solids, liquids or gases in sufficient quantity, either singly or by interaction with other wastes, to injure or interfere with any waste treatment processes, constitute a hazard to humans or animals, create a public nuisance, or create any hazard in the receiving waters of the wastewater treatment plant.
(3)
Any waters or wastes having a pH lower than 5.5, or having any other corrosive property capable of causing damage or hazard to structures, equipment and personnel of the wastewater works.
(4)
Solid or viscous substances in quantities or of such size capable of causing obstruction to the flow in sewers, or other interference with the proper operation of the wastewater facilities such as, but not limited to, ashes, bones, cinders, sand, mud, straw, shavings, metal, glass, rags, feathers, tar, plastics, wood, unground garbage, whole blood, paunch manure, hair and fleshings, entrails and paper dishes, cups, milk containers, etc., either whole or ground by garbage grinders.
(Ord. No. 86-9, § 10, 4-7-86)
Sec. 11-81. - Admissible substances subject to pretreatment, restrictions.
The following described substances, materials, waters or waste shall be limited in discharges to municipal systems to concentrations or quantities which will not harm either the sewers, wastewater treatment process or equipment, will not have an adverse effect on the receiving stream, or will not otherwise endanger lives, limb, public property, or constitute a nuisance. The manager may set limitations lower than the limitations established in the regulations below if in such manager's opinion such more severe limitations are necessary to meet the above objectives. In forming such opinion as to the acceptability, the manager will give consideration to such factors as the quantity of subject waste in relation to flows and velocities in the sewers, materials of construction of the sewers, the wastewater treatment process employed, capacity of the wastewater treatment plant, degree of treatability of the waste in the wastewater treatment plant, and other pertinent factors. The limitations or restrictions on materials or characteristics of waste or wastewater discharged to the sanitary sewer which shall not be violated without approval of the manager are as follows:
(1)
Wastewater having a temperature higher than one hundred fifty (150) degrees Fahrenheit (sixty-five(65) degrees Celsius) or will cause the temperature at the influent to a treatment plant to exceed one hundred four (104) degrees Fahrenheit (forty (40) degrees Celsius).
(2)
Wastewater containing more than twenty-five (25) milligrams per liter of petroleum oil, nonbiodegradable cutting oils, or product of mineral oil origin.
(3)
Wastewater containing more than one hundred (100) milligrams per liter of oils, fat or grease.
(4)
Any garbage that has not been properly shredded. Garbage grinders may be connected to sanitary sewers from homes, hotels, institutions, restaurants, hospitals, catering establishments, or similar places where garbage originates from the preparation of food in kitchens for the purpose of consumption on the premises or when served by caterers.
(5)
Any wastewaters having in excess of (limits in parts per million or milligrams per liter): Silver 0.10; barium 5.0; tin 1.0; iron 2.0; phenol 0.2; arsenic 0.05; boron 1.0; manganese 1.0; lead 0.1; mercury 0.005; nickel 0.4; zinc 1.0; copper 0.1; cadmium 0.02; total chrome 1.8; selenium 0.02; chlorides 250; and any substance or combination thereof that reduces the BOD by ten (10) percent will be considered as a toxic material. In addition, the limits for the following are 0.0: Antimony, beryllium, bismuth, cobalt, cyanide, molybdenum, rhenium, tellurium, uranyl ion, strontium, herbicides, fungicides, and pesticides.
(6)
Any waters or wastes containing odor-producing substances exceeding limits which may be established by the manager.
(7)
Any radioactive wastes or isotopes of such half-life or concentrations as may exceed limits established in compliance with applicable state or federal regulations.
(8)
Quantities of flow, concentrations, or both which constitute a slug, which is defined as any discharge of water or wastewater which in concentration of any given constituent or in quantity of flow exceeds for any period of duration longer than fifteen (15) minutes more than five (5) times the average twenty-four-hour concentrations of flows during normal operation and shall adversely affect the collection system and/or performance of the wastewater facilities.
(9)
Waters or wastes containing substances which are not amenable to treatment or reduction by the wastewater treatment processes employed, or are amenable to treatment only to such degree that the wastewater treatment plant effluent cannot meet the requirements of other agencies having jurisdiction over discharge to the receiving waters.
(10)
Any water or wastes which, by interaction with other water or wastes in the public sewer system, release obnoxious gases, form solids which interfere with the collection system, or create a condition deleterious to structures and treatment processes.
(11)
Wastewater containing constituents in concentrations which are in excess of the concentrations set for normal wastewater (300 mg/l BOD 5 and TSS, 18 mg/l TKN, 15 mg/l phos.)
(Ord. No. 86-9, § 10, 4-7-86)
Sec. 11-82. - Options of city re acceptance of restricted wastes, etc.
If any waters or wastes are discharged or are proposed to be discharged to the public sewers, which waters contain the substances or possess the characteristics enumerated above, and which in the judgment of the POTW or the manager, may have a deleterious effect upon the wastewater facilities, processes, equipment or receiving waters, or which otherwise create a hazard to life or constitute a public nuisance, the POTW or the city may:
(1)
Reject the wastes;
(2)
Require pretreatment to an acceptable condition for discharge to the public sewers, including such monitoring and pretreatment facilities as may be required to comply with the city's interjurisdictional pretreatment agreement with the county, the terms and requirements of which are incorporated herein by reference and made a part hereof, and with EPA and EPD regulations;
(3)
Require control over the quantities and rates of discharge; and/or
(4)
Require surcharge payment to cover added cost of handling and treating the wastes.
When considering the above alternatives, the manager shall give consideration to the economic impact of each alternative on the discharger. If pretreatment or equalization of waste flows is permitted, the design and installation of the plants and equipment shall be subject to the review and approval of the manager.
(Ord. No. 86-9, § 11, 4-7-86)
Sec. 11-83. - Grease, oil, sand interceptors.
(a)
Grease, oil, and sand interceptors shall be provided when, in the opinion of the manager, they are necessary for the proper handling of liquid wastes containing floatable grease in excessive amounts, sand, or other harmful ingredients; except that such interceptors shall not be required for private living quarters or dwelling units.
(b)
All interceptors shall be of a type and capacity approved by the manager and shall be located as to be readily and easily accessible for cleaning and inspection. In the maintaining of these interceptors, the owner shall be responsible for the proper removal and disposal by appropriate means of the captured material, and shall maintain records of the dates, and means of disposal which are subject to review by the manager.
(c)
Any removal and hauling of the collected materials not performed by owner's personnel must be performed by currently licensed waste disposal firms.
(Ord. No. 86-9, § 12, 4-7-86)
Sec. 11-84. - Maintenance of pretreatment, flow-equalizing facilities.
Where pretreatment or flow-equalizing facilities are provided or required for any waters or wastes, they shall be maintained continuously in satisfactory and effective operation by the owner at his expense.
(Ord. No. 86-9, § 13, 4-7-86)
Sec. 11-85. - Requirement of problem discharger, industry discharging more than fifty thousand gallons per day.
Any industry discharging to the city sewer system more than fifty thousand (50,000) gallons per day, or any discharger so designated as a potential problem discharger by the manager, shall comply with the following:
(1)
In order to provide for accurate sampling and measurement of industrial wastes, each designated discharger shall provide and maintain on each of its industrial waste outlet sewers, a large manhole or sampling chamber to be located outside or near its plant boundary line where feasible. If inside the plant fence, there shall be a gate near the sampling chamber with a key furnished to the city, or its agent.
(2)
Each sampling chamber shall contain a parshall flume, accurate weir, or similar device, with a recording and totalizing register for measurement of the liquid quantity; or the metered water supply to the industrial plant may be used as the liquid quantity where it is substantiated that the metered water supply and waste quantities are approximately the same, or where a measurable adjustment can be made in the metered supply to determine the liquid quantity. The measuring, totalizing, recording devices are to be supplied, installed, and maintained by the owner.
(3)
Samples shall be taken every hour, properly refrigerated and composited in proportion to the flow for a representative twenty-four-hour sample. Such sampling shall be repeated on as many days as necessary to ensure representative quantities for the entire reporting period. Industrial plants with wide fluctuations in quantities of wastes, will require an automatic sampler paced automatically by the flow-measuring device. Minimum requirements for representative quantities shall include reevaluation during each quarterly period. The determination of representative quantities shall include not less than three (3) consecutive days of twenty-four-hour composite samplings taken during periods of normal operation, together with acceptable flow measurements. The frequency of sampling, sampling chamber, metering device, sampling methods, and analysis of samples shall be subject, at any time, to inspection and verification by the city. Sampling and measuring facilities shall be such as to provide safe access for authorized personnel of the city for making such inspection and verification. Plans for sampling chambers, with their location shown on a site plan, shall be submitted to the city.
(4)
The owner of each facility discharging industrial wastes shall submit monthly to the city, on forms supplied by the city, a certified statement of the quantities of its wastes discharged into the sewers and sewage works of the city or into any sewer connected therewith. Copies of pertinent water bills shall be submitted with the above statement. Such documents shall be filed with the city not later than the tenth day of the following month. A separate statement shall be filed for each industrial plant. The total quantities of wastes to be measured and certified by the owner shall be:
a.
Liquids in gallons;
b.
Five-day BOD in pounds;
c.
Suspended solids in pounds, on a dry solids basis;
d.
Total phosphorus in pounds;
e.
Total Kjeldahl nitrogen in pounds; and
f.
COD in pounds.
(Ord. No. 86-9, § 14, 4-7-86)
Sec. 11-86. - Discharge of sanitary wastewater into storm sewer system prohibited.
No person shall discharge or cause to be discharged any sanitary wastewater into the storm sewer system without exception.
(Ord. No. 86-9, § 15, 4-7-86)
Sec. 11-87. - Discharge of cooling and/or condensing water regulated.
Cooling and/or condensing water may be discharged to the storm sewer system only if an NPDES permit is obtained from the Georgia Environmental Protection Division.
(Ord. No. 86-9, § 16, 4-7-86)
Sec. 11-88. - Information required to determine compliance.
The industrial users may be required to provide information needed to determine compliance with this article. These requirements may include:
(1)
Wastewaters discharge peak rate and volume over a specified time period;
(2)
Chemical analyses of wastewaters;
(3)
Information on raw materials, processes, and products affecting wastewater volume and quality;
(4)
Quantity and disposition of specific liquid, sludge, oil, solvent, or other materials important to sewer use control;
(5)
A plot plan of sewers on the user's property showing sewer and pretreatment facility location;
(6)
Details of wastewater pretreatment facilities;
(7)
Details of systems to prevent and control the losses of materials through spills to the municipal sewer.
(Ord. No. 86-9, § 17, 4-7-86)
Sec. 11-89. - Agreements accepting unusual strength wastes.
No statement contained in this chapter shall be construed as preventing any special agreement or arrangement between the city and any industrial concern whereby an industrial waste of unusual strength or character may be accepted by the city. However, there shall be no agreements made that would violate any state or federal pretreatment standard.
(Ord. No. 86-9, § 18, 4-7-86)
Sec. 11-90. - Compliance with standard methods.
All measurements, tests, and analyses of the characteristics of waters and wastes to which reference is made in this article shall be determined in accordance with the latest edition of "Standard Methods for the Examination of Water and Wastewater," published by the American Public Health Association. Sampling methods, location, times, durations, and frequencies are to be determined in an individual basis subject to approval by the manager.
(Ord. No. 86-9, § 19, 4-7-86)
Secs. 11-91—11-100. - Reserved.
