Article 10.14 - Used Automobile Establishments

Section 10.14.1 - Definitions.
Automobile Sales Establishment: A place of business where a manufacturer authorized business or dealer engages in the sale of new and used automobiles, trucks, tractors, trailers, boats, recreational vehicles, campers, motorcycles, agricultural implement and equipment and other motorized vehicle sales, leasing, rental, and service where a majority of the sales inventory is new.
Automotive Services Establishment: A business including, but not limited to, rental car facilities, top and body, paint shop, automotive glass, transmission, and tire repair shops, car washes, including automated and staffed facilities, and oil change and lubrication facilities.
Automobile Broker: A business or person who, for a commission or with the intent to make a profit or gain of money or other thing of value, negotiates or attempts to negotiate the sale of a new or used automobile on behalf of another without taking possession of the vehicle. Such term shall not mean any person engaged in the solicitation, negotiation, or advertising of the sale of used automobiles or any owner of real property who allows the display of used automobile on such property if the sale of such vehicles is made by a used car dealer or a financial institution.
Used Automobile: Any pre-owned, leased, or second-hand motor vehicle to which a certificate of title and license plates have been issued and which at a prior time the motor vehicle has been registered for use on the highways by a consumer or by a dealer, and any used or second-hand vehicle, defined as any vehicle required to be titled, trailer coaches, and trailers weighing over two thousand five hundred (2,500) pounds.
Automobile Dealer or Business: A person or business who brokers, deals, or engages in the purchase, sale, lease, or exchange of five (5) or more used automobiles within a twelve-month period or two (2) or more used automobiles at any one point in time.
Used Automobile Sales Establishment: A place of business where a business or dealer engages in the sale of used automobiles as defined herein.
Used Automobile Lot: Any place where used automobiles are displayed and offered for purchase, sale, lease, or exchange in the open by a used automobile dealer or used automobile business.
(Ord. No. 2008-05-03, ยง 5, 05/12/2008)
Section 10.14.2 - License Requirements and Procedure for Obtaining a Used Automobile Establishment License.
(a)
No person, firm, or corporation shall operate as a used automobile sales establishment within the city without a used automobile sales establishment license as herein provided.
(b)
A separate used automobile sales establishment license shall be required for each existing used automobile lot.
(c)
The city is hereby authorized to issue a used automobile sales establishment license upon submission by the applicant of a written application on forms to be provided by the city and upon compliance by the applicant with the following requirements:
(1)
The applicant shall submit to the inspection services department of the city written detailed plans showing the layout of land to be used, the portion thereof to be improved as required herein, method proposed for improvement, drainage, driveways for ingress and egress, and buildings to be built or existing buildings to be used in the operation of the existing used automobile lot. The application shall also be accompanied by written evidence that he/she has obtained all applicable zoning, use, or site plan approvals/permits required to be obtained prior to operating a used automobile sales establishment in the proposed location in the city. The granting of a used automobile sales establishment license shall be contingent on obtaining all applicable zoning, use, or site plan approvals/permits.
(2)
The applicant must furnish evidence that he/she possesses a valid State of Georgia used vehicle dealer's license for the each proposed location.
(3)
Payment of an annual city used automobile sales establishment license fee as required by the city's current business license ordinance.
(d)
All used automobile sales establishment licenses issued under this article shall be for a period of one (1) year expiring on December 31 of each year. The city is hereby authorized to issue a renewal city used automobile sales establishment license upon expiration of the initial license upon written application on forms to be provided by the city accompanied by the required renewal city used automobile sales establishment license fee and a determination by the city that the applicant is complying with all of the provisions of this article.
(e)
No city used automobile sales establishment license issued under this article may be transferred except upon written application by the licensee and the proposed transferee on forms to be provided by the city and the payment of a transfer fee as determined by the business fee. Provided, however, the transferee shall be required to furnish any and all information as may be contained in an initial application for a city used automobile sales establishment license. Prior to transferring any city used automobile sales establishment license, the city shall determine that the existing used automobile lot for the city used automobile sales establishment license has been issued is complying with all of the provisions of this article, provided however that the improvements required under chapter 10.38 may be waived by the planning director for an existing used automobile lot.
(Ord. No. 2008-05-03, ยง 5, 05/12/2008)
Section 10.14.3 - Regulations.
Each licensee under this article shall comply with the following regulations:
(a)
Keep his/her premises in a neat and clean condition. He/she shall not allow any used motor vehicles that are part of his/her inventory to encroach upon any right-of-way of the city.
(b)
Not allow any loud or boisterous noises, including outdoor public address systems, to emanate from his/her place of business, either by persons congregating there or by the playing of recording instruments, radios, and/or television sets or other sound-producing equipment as controlled by Roswell City Code Article 8.8 Nuisances as amended from time to time.
(Ord. No. 2008-05-03, ยง 5, 05/12/2008)
Section 10.14.4 - Revocation.
Any used automobile sales establishment license issued under this article shall be automatically revoked upon termination, suspension, revocation, or failure to renew the licensee's State of Georgia used vehicle dealer's license or upon proof by competent legal evidence that the licensee has made a false statement in any application for a city used automobile sales establishment license filed under this article.
Any such used automobile sales establishment license may be revoked by the city council in their discretion upon proof of conviction of the licensee for a violation of this article.
(Ord. No. 2008-05-03, ยง 5, 05/12/2008)
