Chapter 1 - GENERAL PROVISIONS
Article 1.1 - In General

Section 1.1.1 - Code Designated and Cited.
The ordinances embraced in the following chapters, articles and sections shall constitute and be designated "Code of Ordinances of the City of Roswell, Georgia" and may be so cited.
Section 1.1.2 - Rules of Construction.
In the construction of this Code, and of all ordinances, the following rules shall be observed, unless such construction would be inconsistent with the manifest intent of the governing body:
Council. The word "council" shall mean the mayor and each councilman of the city.
County. The words "the county" or "this county" shall mean Fulton County, Georgia.
City. The words "the city" or "this city" shall mean the City of Roswell, Georgia.
City clerk. The term "city clerk" refers to that employee of the City of Roswell charged with keeping the minute book of the city.
Governing body. Whenever the words "governing body" are used, they shall mean the mayor and council of the city, and/or board and commission members.
Officials. The name or title of any officer or department shall be read as though the words "of the City of Roswell" were added thereto.
Gender. A word importing the masculine gender only shall extend and be applied to females and to firms, partnerships and corporations as well as to males.
Number. Words used in the singular include the plural, and the plural includes the singular number.
Oath. The word "oath" shall include an affirmation in all cases in which, by law, an affirmation may be substituted for an oath, and in such cases the words "swear" and "sworn" shall be equivalent to the words "affirm" and "affirmed."
O.C.G.A. The term "O.C.G.A." means the Official Code of Georgia Annotated, as amended.
Person. The word "person" shall extend and be applied to firms, partnerships, associations, organizations and bodies politic and corporate, or any combination thereof, as well as to individuals.
Public place. The term "public place" shall mean any park, cemetery, shopping center, schoolyard or open space adjacent thereto, or any area available and/or accessible to the public, regardless of whether privately or publicly owned.
Shall, may. The term "shall" is mandatory; the term "may" is permissive.
Signature or subscription. The terms "signature" and "subscription" include a mark when the person cannot write.
State. The words "the state" or "this state" shall mean the State of Georgia.
Street. The word "street" shall mean and include any public way, road, highway, street, avenue, boulevard, parkway, alley, lane, viaduct, bridge and the approaches thereto within the city.
State Law reference— General definitions and rules of construction, O.C.G.A. § 1-3-1.
Section 1.1.3 - General Penalty; Continuing Violation.
(a)
This section shall apply whenever in this Code or in any secondary code adopted by reference any act is prohibited or is made or declared to be unlawful or an offense, or whenever the doing of any act is required or the failure to do any act is declared to be unlawful and no specific penalty is provided therefor in this Code or in the adopting ordinance. In such case, the violation, concealing of a violation, or the harboring, assisting or protecting of a person charged with or convicted of a violation of any such provision of this Code or any secondary code adopted by reference shall be punished by a fine not exceeding $2,000.00, by a sentence of imprisonment not exceeding one hundred eighty (180) days and by community service for a period not exceeding one hundred eighty (180) days. Either or both such fine and imprisonment or community service shall be in the discretion of the judge of the municipal court or any officer trying the offender. Each day any violation of any provision of this Code shall continue shall constitute a separate offense.
(b)
In addition to the penalties provided in subsection (a), any condition caused or permitted to exist in violation of any of the provisions of this Code shall be deemed a public nuisance and may be abated by the city, as provided by law, and each day that such condition continues shall be regarded as a new and separate offense.
(c)
All fines and penalties for the violation of any provision of this Code or of any ordinance, or any order of the mayor and council shall, when recovered, inure to the use of the city and be paid into the city treasury unless otherwise directed by state or federal law.
State Law reference— Municipal penalties, O.C.G.A. § 36-35-6(a)(2)
Section 1.1.4 - Reserved.
Section 1.1.5 - Altering Code.
It shall be unlawful for any person in the city to change or amend by additions or deletions, any part or portion of this Code, or to insert or delete pages or portions thereof, or to alter or tamper with such Code in any manner whatsoever, which will cause the law of the City of Roswell, Georgia, to be misrepresented thereby. Any person violating this section shall be punished as provided in section 1.1.3 hereof.
Section 1.1.6 - Exercise of Powers.
The powers of the city may be exercised by the city as provided in this Code, or by other agencies as provided by contract.
Section 1.1.7 - References to Prior Codes.
References in city forms, documents, citations and regulations to the chapters and sections of the former city code shall be constructed to apply to the corresponding provisions contained within this Code.
Article 1.2 - Ordinances

Section 1.2.1 - Catchlines of Sections.
The catchlines of sections of this Code printed in boldface type, italics, or otherwise, are intended as mere catchwords to indicate the contents of the section, and shall not be deemed or taken to be titles of such sections, nor as any part of the section, nor, unless expressly so provided, shall they be so deemed when any of such sections, including the catchlines, are amended or reenacted. Furthermore, the chapter, article and section headings contained herein shall not be deemed to govern, limit, modify or in any manner affect the scope, meaning or intent of the provisions of any chapter, article or section hereof.
Section 1.2.2 - Effect of Repeal of Ordinances.
The repeal of an ordinance shall not revive any ordinances in force before or at the time the ordinance repealed took effect.
The repeal of an ordinance shall not affect any punishment or penalty incurred before the repeal took effect, nor any suit, prosecution or proceeding pending at the time of the repeal for an offense committed under the ordinances repealed.
Section 1.2.3 - Severability of Parts of Code.
It is declared to be the intention of the governing body that the sections, paragraphs, sentences, clauses and phrases of this Code are severable, and if any phrase, clause, sentence, paragraph or section of this Code shall be declared unconstitutional by the valid judgment or decree of a court of competent jurisdiction, such unconstitutionality shall not affect any of the remaining phrases, clauses, sentences, paragraphs and sections of this Code.
Section 1.2.4 - Amendment to Code; Effect of New Ordinances; Amendatory Language.
All ordinances passed subsequent to this Code of Ordinances which amend, repeal or in any way affect this Code of Ordinances, may be numbered in accordance with the numbering system of this Code and printed for inclusion therein. When subsequent ordinances repeal any chapter, section or subsection or any portion thereof, such repealed portions may be excluded from said Code by omission from reprinted pages.
Amendments to any of the provisions of this Code shall be made by amending such provisions by specific reference to the section of this Code in substantially the following language: "That section of the Code of the City of Roswell is hereby amended to read as follows:
_______(Set out new provisions in full)_______
"Section _______. It is the intention of the mayor and council, and it is hereby ordained that the provisions of this ordinance shall become and be made a part of the Code of Ordinances, City of Roswell, Georgia, and the sections of this ordinance may be renumbered to accomplish such intention."
All sections, articles, chapters or provisions of this Code desired to be repealed should be specifically repealed by section or chapter number, as the case may be.
Section 1.2.5 - Certain Ordinances not Affected by Code.
Nothing in this Code or the ordinance adopting this Code shall be construed to repeal or otherwise affect the validity of any of the following:
(a)
Any offense or act committed or done or any penalty or forfeiture incurred or any contract or right established or accruing before the effective date of this Code.
(b)
Any ordinance promising or guaranteeing the payment of money for the city or authorizing the issuance of any bonds for the city or any evidence of the city's indebtedness, or any contract or obligation assumed by the city.
(c)
Any ordinance fixing salaries of officers or employees of the city.
(d)
Any appropriation ordinance.
(e)
Any right or franchise granted by the mayor and council to any person.
(f)
Any ordinance dedicating, naming, establishing, locating, relocating, opening, closing, paving, widening, vacating, etc., any street or public way in the city.
(g)
Any ordinance establishing and prescribing the street grades of any street in the city.
(h)
Any ordinance providing for local improvements or assessing taxes therefor.
(i)
Any ordinance dedicating or accepting any plat or subdivision in the city.
(j)
Any ordinance fixing ad valorem taxes.
(k)
Any temporary or special ordinance.
(l)
Any ordinance relating to elections.
All such ordinances or acts are hereby recognized as continuing in full force and effect to the same extent as if set out at length in this section.
