Article 10.10 - Health Spas

Section 10.10.1 - Definition.
The term "health spa" means an establishment which provides as one (1) of its primary purposes, services or facilities which are purported to assist patrons improve their physical condition or appearance through change in weight, weight control, treatment, dieting, or exercise. The term includes an establishment designated as a "reducing salon," "health spa," "exercise gym," "health studio," "health club," or any by other terms of similar import.
A health spa shall not include:
(a)
Any nonprofit organization;
(b)
Any facility wholly owned and operated by a licensed physician at which such physician is engaged in the practice of medicine; or
(c)
Any such establishment operated by a health care facility, hospital, intermediate care facility, or skilled nursing care facility.
Section 10.10.2 - Requirements for Issuance of License.
No license for a health spa will be issued until the applicant has met the following conditions:
(a)
Applicant must furnish to the City of Roswell certificates from the State Court of Fulton County, Superior Court of Fulton County and the United States District Court for the Northern District of Georgia, stating that applicant has not been convicted of any felony or misdemeanor involving moral turpitude within the previous ten (10) years. If applicant has not resided in Fulton County during the ten-year period, he must furnish certificates from the proper jurisdictions of his residence.
(b)
Applicant must furnish to the City of Roswell letters from three (3) residents of Fulton County stating their familiarity with applicant and his fitness for the license.
(c)
Applicant must furnish evidence of public liability insurance covering the health spa. Such insurance shall not be less than $25,000.00.
Section 10.10.3 - Disclosure Statement.
Health spas licensed by the City of Roswell shall fully comply with the requirements of O.C.G.A. ยง 10-1-393.2.
Section 10.10.4 - Cleanliness, Neatness, etc., of Premises.
The premises shall be kept clean, neat and sanitary and shall comply with all sanitary and health requirements of the State of Georgia and Fulton County.
Section 10.10.5 - Reserved.
Section 10.10.6 - Agreement by Licensee; Fingerprints of Employees; Alcoholic Beverages Prohibited.
(a)
Licensee agrees that it will not employ persons of ill repute to work in the business, nor will it allow such place of business to become a brothel.
(b)
The licensee and all employees will be fingerprinted by the chief of police of the City of Roswell or his designated representative. The chief of police shall issue a letter of clearance indicating such person is eligible for employment.
(c)
No alcoholic beverages will be sold or provided to customers on the premises.
Section 10.10.7 - License Fee.
The business license fee for a health spa shall be $150.00.
Section 10.10.8 - Violation of Article; Voiding of License; Appeal.
If any of the above conditions are violated, or conditions required by state law are not met, the license issued hereunder shall be void and the licensee will cease operation of the business. Provided, however, the licensee may appeal such decision to the city council within five (5) days of the notice that the license is voided. The decision of the city council is final. Licensee may continue to operate the business during the appeal.
