Article 8.3 - Fire Protection and Prevention[2]

Footnotes:
--- (2) ---
State Law reference— Fire protection is a local home rule power under Georgia Constitution art. IX, § II, par. III(a)(1).

Section 8.3.1 - Establishment of Department.
There is hereby created and established a fire and rescue department known as the Roswell Fire Department, consisting of a chief, and such other members of said fire and rescue department as may from time to time be provided for by the mayor and city council. Members shall be appointed in the manner provided by law and this article. The objective of this department shall be the preservation and protection of life and property from fires and accidents. It shall be the function and duty of the fire department and every member thereof to extinguish accidental or destructive fires and to prevent the occurrence or spread of such fires. It shall be the duty of the rescue unit to render authorized emergency medical aid at the scene of a fire, accident, or emergency.
(Resolution No. 2006-05-26, May 15, 2006)
State Law reference— General powers and duties of local governments with respect to fire departments, O.C.G.A. §§ 25-3-1 et seq. and 25-4-1 et seq.
Section 8.3.2 - Fire Chief.
The fire chief shall be responsible for directing and supervising the operations and personnel of the Roswell Fire Department. Duties shall include implementing policies and procedures to enhance the operation of the department; reviewing training programs; conducting fire prevention and safety educational programs; and administering the departmental human resource program. The fire chief shall work under the limited supervision of the city administrator.
(Resolution No. 2006-05-26, May 15, 2006)
Section 8.3.3 - Oversight by Public Safety and Public Works Committee.
The Public Safety and Public Works Committee as established by section 2.4.1 of the City of Roswell Code of Ordinances shall monitor the activities of the fire and rescue department, approve internal organization and rules and regulations of the volunteer organization, and act to insure that the lives and property of citizens of Roswell are protected. The fire chief shall serve as a liaison to such committee and make presentations and periodic reports as requested.
(2008-01-01, Amended, 01/07/2008; 2007-03-03, Amended, 03/05/2007; Resolution No. 2006-05-26, May 15, 2006)
Section 8.3.4 - Deputy Chief.
The mayor and council shall appoint a deputy chief who shall perform the duties of the chief in his absence and such other duties as set forth herein or as designated in the rules and regulations governing the department.
Section 8.3.5 - Marshals and Deputies—Authority to Name.
The mayor and city council are authorized to appoint a fire marshal for the city and as many deputy fire marshals as they deem proper. The fire marshal and his deputies will operate under the supervision of the fire chief.
Section 8.3.6 - Reserved.
Section 8.3.7 - Operations Manual.
The fire and rescue department will be operated pursuant to the operations manual entitled "Roswell Fire and Rescue Department, Standard Operational Procedures" which is hereby incorporated by reference into this chapter. Changes to such manual shall be approved by the Public Safety and Public Works Committee.
(2008-01-01, Amended, 01/07/2008; 2007-03-03, Amended, 03/05/2007)
Section 8.3.8 - Records.
The fire chief shall keep or cause to be kept a record of all meetings of the department, the attendance and training of the members, a record of all fire calls, fire loss, rescue calls, response times, fire prevention activities, fire inspections, etc. Such records shall be filed with the city administrator. The fire chief shall make a report of such activities to the Public Safety and Public Works Committee as requested.
(2008-01-01, Amended, 01/07/2008; 2007-03-03, Amended, 03/05/2007)
Section 8.3.9 - Rescue Service.
The fire and rescue department shall provide rescue and emergency aid service. The rescue unit is a first responder unit that provides on-site care until the arrival of the duly certified ambulance service. In cases in which the officer in charge of the rescue unit considers that a life or death situation exists, the rescue unit may transport the victim to a medical facility.
Section 8.3.10 - Command at Fires.
In case of fire, the fire chief and his assistants shall rank in the order named and the officer of the highest rank at the fire shall take command of the fire department, and direct the management thereof for the suppression of the fire, in the best manner possible. When necessary for the protection of other property and to prevent the spread of the conflagration, the officer in command may cause buildings to be removed, torn down or destroyed in the best manner possible.
Section 8.3.11 - State Minimum Fire Safety Standards.
The City of Roswell hereby adopts the state minimum fire safety standards pursuant to O.C.G.A § 25-2-12 which standards are specified in the rules and regulations promulgated pursuant to such chapter.
Additionally, the city hereby adopts the Georgia Standard Fire Prevention Code (International Fire Code) as adopted by the State of Georgia and as amended from time to time. The City of Roswell further adopts Chapter 1 Administration, Appendix B, Appendix C, and Appendix D of the Fire Prevention Code with the following modifications:
(a)
Sections 103.1, 103.2, 103.3 and 108 are deleted in their entirety.
(b)
Section 109.3 add: (Specify Offense - misdemeanor), (Amount - $1,000.00) and (Number of Days - one hundred eighty (180) days).
(c)
Section 111.4 add: (Minimum Fine Amount $500.00) and (Maximum Fine Amount $1,000.00).
(d)
Appendix D, Section D103: Minimum road width is changed from twenty-six (26) feet to twenty-four (24) feet.
(e)
Appendix D, Section D103.4, Table D103.4: Cul-de-sac diameter is changed from ninety-six (96) feet to one hundred (100) feet and minimum road width is changed from twenty-six (26) feet to twenty-four (24) feet.
(2002-02-01, Amended, 02/18/2002)
Section 8.3.12 - Authority to Enforce Standards.
The fire marshal and his deputies shall be Georgia registered or certified peace officers. The fire marshal's office shall be recognized by the State of Georgia through police office standards training as a law enforcement agency and shall be headed by the fire marshal. The fire marshal and his deputies shall have full authority of arrest and the ability to summons violators to court in all matters pertaining to the enforcement of the state of Georgia minimum fire safety standards and criminal investigations involving arson.
Section 8.3.13 - Enforcement of State Minimum Fire Safety Standards.
The fire marshal and his deputies shall have the responsibility to enforce the minimum fire safety standards with the exception of chapter 120-3-3.09, "Accessibility to and Use of Public Facilities by Persons with Disabilities" and chapter 120-3-3.10, "Parking Spaces Designation for Persons with Disabilities." The chief building official of the city's department of community development shall enforce such standards.
( 2015-07-19 , Amended 07/27/2015)
Section 8.3.14 - Determination of Hazardous Condition; Remedial Action.
Should the fire marshal or his deputies deem any condition existing in the city to be in violation of the adopted minimum fire safety standards, they shall have the authority to command that said condition be remedied. The fire marshal shall keep or cause to be kept a record of all inspections, as to their location, date, recommendations made and all follow-up actions.
Section 8.3.15 - Closing of Buildings/Businesses or Job Sites.
The fire marshal or deputy fire marshals shall furnish the developer, builder, contractor, building owner and/or business owner who violated the minimum fire safety standards and/or who fails to perform satisfactory work, a written list of violations of the code or standard. If the developer, builder, contractor, building owner and/or business owner does not correct the violation, the fire marshal or deputy fire marshal with fire marshal or fire chief approval, may close down the job and/or have the work thereon stopped and/or preclude use of the building until the cited deficiencies are corrected.
Section 8.3.16 - Emergency Closings.
Under emergency situations and in the best interest of public safety the fire marshal and/or fire chief or deputy fire marshal with approval of the fire marshal or fire chief may close a business or building due to life threatening violations of the minimum fire safety standards. This may be done without prior notice of violations.
Section 8.3.17 - Appeals from Determinations of Fire Marshal.
Whenever the fire marshal disapproves an application, revokes or suspends a permit due to unsatisfactory work, or when it is claimed that the provisions of the minimum fire safety standards do not apply or that the true intent and meaning of the codes or standards have been misconstrued or wrongly interpreted, the applicant may appeal from the decision of the fire marshal to the fire chief.
If the aggrieved party does not agree with the decision of the fire chief an appeal may be made through the fire marshal to the state fire marshal's office. The developer, builder, contractor, building owner and/or business owner shall do no work on the structure and/or the building owner or business owner use the building without the approval of the fire marshal and/or the chief while the appeal is pending. If the state fire marshal's office finds the violations of the code and/or unsatisfactory work of the developer, builder, contractor, building owner and/or business owner to be true, the suspension of work and/or closing of a building or buildings ordered by the fire chief and/or fire marshal shall be continued and the developer's, builder's, and/or contractor's right to secure further permits to do work in the city revoked until the developer, builder and/or contractor presents evidence to the fire marshal and/or chief of the fire and rescue department that he, she and/or it can and will perform work which complies with the minimum fire safety standards. Further, if the state fire marshal's office finds that a building owner and/or business owner has violated the provisions of the minimum fire safety standards, such building or buildings will not be used until the deficiencies have been corrected to the satisfaction of the fire marshal and/or the fire chief.
Section 8.3.18 - Variances on New and Existing Construction.
Variances in the minimum fire safety standards in existing buildings may be granted by the Roswell fire marshal pursuant to O.C.G.A. § 25-2-12(e)(2). Variances shall be as nearly equivalent as practical to the standards in question.
Variances in the minimum fire safety standards in the construction of new buildings are the responsibility of the state fire safety commissioner pursuant to O.C.G.A. § 25-2-12(e)(4).
Section 8.3.19 - Open Burning.
Except as otherwise provided by the law, or as otherwise set forth in this Code, no persons shall cause, allow or permit open burning of refuse, rubbish, brush, wood, trash, leaves, grass, grass clippings, tree limbs or other combustible materials anywhere in the city.
(a)
[Exceptions.]The following are exceptions to the prohibition on outside burning provided that none of the following items are to be burned: refuse, rubbish, brush, trash, treated wood, leaves, grass, grass clippings, or any manmade items other than those designed for cooking or smoking food. Exceptions to the prohibition are expressly subject to paragraph (d)[(e)] of this section regarding hazardous conditions.
(1)
Outdoor burning in connection with the preparation of food for immediate human consumption provided that it is in a pit, grill or barbeque, is not more than three feet across in any direction and the materials to be burned are not more than two feet high. Shall not be conducted within ten (10) feet of a structure or combustible material. A fire department permit is required to exceed these requirements. Exception: Grills and smokers used at one and two family homes.
(2)
Campfires and fires used solely for recreational or ceremonial occasions, provided that fires shall not be conducted within twenty-five (25) feet of a structure or combustible material and is in a pit or barbeque, not more than three (3) feet across in any direction and the materials to be burned are not more than two (2) feet high. A fire department permit is required to exceed these requirements. Exception: Fires in commercially manufactured portable outdoor fire places shall not be conducted within fifteen (15) feet of a structure or combustible material.
(3)
Warming fires in barrels of fifty-five-gallon capacity or less are allowed at construction sites, provided that the outside temperature is fifty (50) degrees Fahrenheit or less and the fire does not produce dense smoke or obnoxious odors. Fires shall not be conducted within twenty-five (25) feet of a structure or combustible material. Untreated wood or lumber shall be the only material or substance allowed in a warming fire. Warming fires must be attended and are authorized only at sites where no certificate of occupancy has been issued. It is specifically declared the responsibility of all city building inspectors and other enforcement of these warming fire provisions.
(4)
Burning associated with the operation of devices that require open flames, such as tar kettles, blow torches, welding torches, portable heaters, and other flame-making equipment, provided that the use of such equipment does not violate other local or state laws; and
(5)
Burning associated with the disposal of packaging materials previously containing explosives, in accordance with the U.S. Department of Labor and Safety Regulations.
(b)
Number of fires. Not more than one fire, cooking or recreational permitted at one time per assigned street address. A fire department permit is required to exceed these requirements.
(c)
Flammable liquids. Flammable liquids shall be prohibited to use for starting fires.
(d)
Attendance. Cooking fires, recreational fires and use of portable outdoor fireplaces shall be constantly attended until the fire is completely extinguished. Not fewer than one portable fire extinguisher with a minimum 4-A rating or other approved on-site fire-extinguishing equipment, such as a five-gallon bucket of dirt or sand, water barrel or garden hose shall be available for immediate utilization.
(e)
Burning under hazardous conditions. The fire marshal may prohibit any open burning when atmospheric conditions or local circumstances make such burning hazardous.
(f)
Liability of landowner. Nothing herein shall be constructed to limit the liability of the landowner for any damages caused as a result of a fire.
(g)
Violations. Any person violating any provision of this section shall be fined not less than $25.00 nor more than $500.00 for each offense, and a separate offense shall be deemed committed on each day during or on which a violation occurs or continues. In addition, any person violating any provision of this section which results in a fire requiring the response of the fire department shall also be liable for the costs incurred in responding to the fire, including but not limited to actual labor costs, costs of equipment operation, and costs of materials.
( 2021-06-12 , Added, 06/14/2021)
Section 8.3.20 - Violations and Penalties.
(a)
Any person who shall violate any of the provisions of the state minimum fire safety standards adopted in this article or who shall fail to comply therewith, or who shall violate or fail to comply with any order made thereunder, or who shall build in violation of any detailed statement or specifications or plans submitted and approved thereunder, or any certificate of permit issued thereunder and from which no appeal has been taken, or who shall fail to comply with such an order as affirmed or modified by the chief of the fire and rescue department and/or by the mayor and the council of the city or by a court of competent jurisdiction, within the time fixed herein, shall severally for each and every such violation and noncompliance respectively, be guilty of a misdemeanor.
(b)
Each such violation or failure to comply shall be punished by a fine not exceeding $1,000.00, by imprisonment not to exceed one hundred eighty (180) days and community service in the City of Roswell for period not to exceed one hundred eighty (180) days, either or both such fine, imprisonment or work on the streets or public works, in the discretion of the municipal court judge and as provided in section 1.1.3.
(c)
The imposition of one (1) penalty for any violation shall not excuse the violation or permit it to continue. All such persons shall be required to correct or remedy such violations or defects within a reasonable time; and, when not otherwise specified, each day that prohibited conditions are maintained shall constitute a separate offense.
(d)
The application of the penalty prescribed in subsection (b) shall not be held to prevent the enforced removal of prohibited conditions or maintenance of an abatement action.
Section 8.3.21 - Civil Remedies and Penalties.
In addition to any fines or penalties provided for herein, any person who willfully violates any provisions of this article shall be liable for a civil penalty not to exceed $1,000.00 for each day that the violation continues to exist. The violating party shall also be liable to the City of Roswell for the costs incurred and damages suffered by the city, its agents and agencies as a direct and proximate result of such violation(s).
In determining the amount of the civil penalty to impose, the court shall consider all relevant circumstances, including, but not limited to, the extent of the harm caused by the conduct constituting a violation, the nature and persistence of such conduct, the length of time over which the conduct occurred, the danger to public health and safety, and the corrective action, if any, taken by the defendant.
Section 8.3.22 - Duties of Spectators.
Every spectator who shall be present at a fire or emergency scene shall be subject to the orders of the officer in command at such fire or emergency scene, and any person refusing to obey such orders shall, upon conviction, be fined in a sum not exceeding $200.00, provided no person shall be bound to obey any such officer, unless such officer's official character shall be made known to such person.
Section 8.3.23 - Enforcement of Ordinances.
It shall be the duty of police officers of the city to see that the provisions of this chapter are enforced and to arrest on view any person who shall be found violating any of the provisions of this chapter or who shall hinder, resist, or refuse to obey any such officer in the discharge of his duty.
Section 8.3.24 - Water Supplies to Single-Family Dwellings.
Private property that is subdivided for more than one (1) single-family residence and is located more than one thousand (1,000) feet from the nearest fire hydrant shall be equipped with automatic fire sprinkler protection designed in accordance with the National Fire Protection Association Standard 13D as adopted by the State of Georgia. Plans shall be submitted and approved by the fire marshal's office.
Section 8.3.25 - Entrance Gates and Chains.
Gates or devices restricting fire department access to residential or commercial buildings or recreation areas shall comply with the requirements of the fire marshal's office before installation.
Section 8.3.26 - Service Outside Corporate Limits.
Members of the fire and rescue department are authorized to go outside the corporate limits of the city for the purpose of rendering aid to other fire departments, or of extinguishing fires or rendering aid in the case of accidents. Provided, however, the fire department shall not render such service outside the corporate limits except upon orders of the fire chief, the deputy chief, or the mayor. Where the city has undertaken by contract to render service to property outside the corporate limits the fire and rescue department may leave the corporate limits in the fulfillment of such contract.
