Article 10.9 - Door to Door Solicitation

Section 10.9.1 - Permit Required.
It shall be unlawful for any person, firm or corporation to engage in the business of soliciting, calling on residences door-to-door without first having obtained a permit in accordance with the provisions contained in this chapter.
Section 10.9.2 - Applicability.
This chapter is meant to apply to door-to-door solicitations for commercial transactions for profit only. It is not meant to regulate solicitation for charitable, political, or other nonprofit purposes provided that all sales proceeds are the property of and used by the nonprofit organization.
State Law reference— Local limitation on imposition of regulatory fees, O.C.G.A. § 48-13-9.
Section 10.9.3 - Definitions.
For the purpose of this chapter, the following words as used herein shall be considered to have the meaning herein ascribed thereto:
Licensed solicitor shall mean and include any person who has obtained a valid permit as hereinafter provided, which permit is in the possession of the solicitor on his or her person while engaged in soliciting.
Residence shall mean and include every separate living unit occupied for residential purposes by one (1) or more persons, contained within any type of building or structure.
Soliciting shall mean and include any one (1) or more of the following activities:
(1)
Seeking to obtain orders for the purchase of goods, wares, merchandise, foodstuffs, services, of any kind, character or description whatever, for any kind of consideration whatever; or
(2)
Seeking to obtain prospective customers for application or purchase of insurance of any type, kind or publication; or
(3)
Seeking to obtain subscriptions to books, magazines, periodicals, newspapers and every other type or kind of publication.
Section 10.9.4 - Permit—Application Required; Presentation.
Every person desiring to engage in soliciting as herein defined from persons in residences within the City of Roswell, is hereby required to make written application for a permit as hereinafter provided. Each person shall at all times while soliciting in the City of Roswell carry upon his or her person the permit so issued and the same shall be exhibited by such solicitor whenever he is requested to do so by any police officer or by any person solicited.
Section 10.9.5 - Same—Information Contained.
Each permit issued shall contain the name of the solicitor, the name and address of the person, firm or corporation or association whom the solicitor is employed by or represents, a photograph of the solicitor, and physical description. Such photograph shall be provided by the solicitor and shall be at least two (2) inches by two (2) inches in size.
Section 10.9.6 - Same—Application.
Application for a permit shall be made upon a form provided by the City of Roswell. The applicant shall truthfully state in full the information requested on the application, to wit:
(a)
Name and address of present place of residence and length of residence at such address; also business address if other than present address;
(b)
Address of place of residence during the past three (3) years if other than present address;
(c)
Age of applicant;
(d)
Physical description of the applicant;
(e)
Name and address of the person, firm, or corporation or association whom the applicant is employed by or represents; and the length of time of such employment or representation;
(f)
Name and address of employer during the past three (3) years if other than the present employer;
(g)
Description sufficient for identification of the subject matter of the soliciting in which the applicant will engage;
(h)
Period of time for which the certificate is applied;
(i)
Proposed route, including streets to be included on each day, which applicant intends to follow;
(j)
The date, or approximate date, of the latest previous application for permit under this chapter, if any;
(k)
Whether the applicant has ever been convicted of a felony, a crime of moral turpitude, or any other violation of any state or federal law;
(l)
Names of magazines, books, or journals to be sold;
(m)
Names of the three (3) most recent communities where the applicant has solicited house to house;
(n)
Proposed method of operation;
(o)
Description and license plate number of vehicle(s) intended to be operated by applicant;
(p)
Signature of applicant; and
(q)
Social security number of applicant.
All statements made by the applicant upon the application or in connection therewith shall be under oath.
The applicant shall submit to fingerprinting by the police department of the City of Roswell in connection with the application for the permit.
The city administrator shall cause to be kept in his office an accurate record of every application received and acted upon together with all other information and data pertaining thereto and all permits issued under the provisions of this chapter, and of the denial of applications. Applications for permits shall be numbered in consecutive order as filed, and every permit issued, and any renewal thereof, shall be identified with the duplicate number of the application upon which it was issued.
No permit shall be issued to any person who has been convicted of a felony or crime of moral turpitude within five (5) years of the date of the application; nor to any person who has been convicted of a violation of any of the provisions of this chapter; nor to any person whose permit issued hereunder has previously been revoked as herein provided.
Section 10.9.7 - Same—Revocation.
Any permit issued hereunder shall be revoked by the city administrator if the holder of the permit is convicted of a violation of any of the provisions of this chapter or has made a false material statement in the application, or otherwise becomes disqualified for the issuance of a permit under the terms of this chapter. Immediately upon such revocation, written notice thereof shall be given to the holder of the permit in person or by certified United States mail addressed to his or her residence address set forth in the application.
Immediately upon the giving of such notice the permit shall become null and void and must be turned in to the city administrator's office.
The permit shall state the expiration date thereof. In no event shall a permit be valid for more than six (6) months. Such permit is renewable.
Section 10.9.8 - Fraud.
Any licensed solicitor who shall be guilty of any fraud, cheating, or misrepresentation, whether through himself or through an employee, while acting as a solicitor in the city, shall be deemed guilty of a violation of this chapter.
Section 10.9.9 - Fee.
modified
The fee for a permit shall be set by mayor and council for a six (6) month period for each solicitor.
(Ord. No. 2022-07-09 , § 1, 07/11/2022)
Section 10.9.10 - Exceptions.
The provisions of this chapter shall not apply to officers or employees of the city, county, state, or federal government, or any subdivision thereof, when on official business.
Section 10.9.11 - Routes.
To the extent practical, each solicitor shall identify the streets and routes which he will follow on each day he is engaged in the business of soliciting. If changes in routes are made, then such changes must be immediately reported to the city administrator's office.
Section 10.9.12 - Uninvited Soliciting Prohibited.
It is hereby declared to be unlawful and shall constitute a nuisance for any person to go upon any premises and ring the doorbell upon or near any door, or create any sound in any other manner calculated to attract the attention of the occupant of such residence, for the purpose of securing an audience with the occupant thereof and engage in soliciting as herein defined if the occupant of said residence has made it clear, by written sign or otherwise, that solicitors are not invited.
Any solicitor who has gained entrance to any residence, whether invited or not, shall immediately and peacefully depart from the premises when requested to do so by the occupant.
Section 10.9.13 - Time Limit on Soliciting.
It is hereby declared to be unlawful and shall constitute a nuisance for any person, whether licensed under this chapter or not, to go upon any premises and ring the doorbell upon or near any door of a residence located thereon, or rap or knock upon any door or create any sound in any other manner calculated to attract the attention of the occupant of such residence, for the purpose of securing an audience with the occupant thereof and engage in soliciting as herein defined, prior to 10:00 a.m. or after 6:00 p.m., Eastern Standard Time, or before 10:00 a.m. or after 7:00 p.m. Eastern Daylight Saving Time, Monday through Saturday, or at any time on Sunday, or on a state or national holiday.
Section 10.9.14 - Penalty.
Any person violating any of the provisions of this chapter shall, upon conviction thereof, be subject to a fine of not less than $25.00 nor more than $200.00 for each offense; and a separate offense shall be deemed committed on each day during or on which a violation occurs or continues.
