ARTICLE VI. - EMPLOYEE BENEFITS[11]
Footnotes:
--- (11) ---
State Law reference— Municipality's authority to maintain and modify retirement or pension systems, Ga. Const. art. 9, sec. 2, par. 3(a)(14); authority to establish retirement systems for municipal employees, O.C.G.A. § 36-34-2(4); authority to provide insurance, retirement and pension benefits, O.C.G.A. § 36-35-4; joint municipal employees benefit system, O.C.G.A. § 47-5-1 et seq.; public retirement standards law, O.C.G.A. § 47-20-1 et seq.

DIVISION 1. - GENERALLY

Sec. 2-221. - Insurance trust agreement.
(a)
For the purpose of establishing a system for the city to provide group life insurance and group accident and health insurance and worker's compensation insurance to its employees, there is hereby agreed and subscribed to that document entitled "Insurance Trust Agreement," entered into in Atlanta, Fulton County, Georgia, on June 6, 1972, as amended, by and between the Georgia Municipal Association, Inc., and the trustees as provided for in such agreement, and other participating member municipalities, and all terms, conditions, covenants and obligations as set forth therein. Such insurance trust agreement is made a part of this section and incorporated in this section by reference as fully as if set forth at length in this section.
(b)
The trustees provided for in the insurance trust agreement incorporated in subsection (a) of this section shall be the trustees of the trust fund established in the insurance trust agreement.
(Code 1976, § 2-7001)
Secs. 2-222—2-230. - Reserved.
DIVISION 2. - SOCIAL SECURITY

Sec. 2-231. - Social security system approved.
It is hereby declared to be the policy and purpose of the city to extend at the earliest date possible under the agreement entered into by the state and the federal Social Security Administration, to the employees and officials thereof, and its instrumentalities, not excluded by law or by this article, the benefits of the system of old-age and survivors insurance as authorized by the federal Social Security Act and the state enabling act, and amendments thereto. In pursuance of such policy, and for that purpose, the city shall take such action as may be required by applicable state or federal laws or regulations.
(Code 1976, § 2-6051)
Sec. 2-232. - Agreements with state system.
The mayor or other chief executive officer of the city is hereby authorized and directed to execute all necessary agreements and amendments thereto with the employees' retirement system of the state for coverage of such employees and officials as provided for in section 2-231, to include any employees that are in positions covered by a public retirement system, in the manner provided by such law.
(Code 1976, § 2-6052)
Sec. 2-233. - Withholdings from salaries.
Withholdings from salaries or wages of employees and officials for the purpose provided for in section 2-231 are hereby authorized to be made in the amounts and at such times as may be required by applicable state or federal laws or regulations, and shall be paid over to the state agency.
(Code 1976, § 2-6053)
Sec. 2-234. - Appropriations from city funds.
There shall be appropriated from city funds such amounts at such times as may be required by applicable state or federal laws or regulations for employer's contributions, administrative expenses and a guaranty fund to ensure that the state will not incur any debt or loss as a result of the agreement referred to in section 2-232. Such funds shall be paid over to the employees' retirement system of the state in accordance with regulations established by the state agency.
(Code 1976, § 2-6054)
Sec. 2-235. - Records and reports.
The city shall keep such records and make such reports pursuant to this division as may be required by applicable state or federal laws or regulations.
(Code 1976, § 2-6055)
Sec. 2-236. - Exclusions from coverage.
There is hereby excluded from this division any authority to make any agreement with respect to any position or any employee or official not authorized to be covered by applicable state or federal laws or regulations.
(Code 1976, § 2-6056)
Sec. 2-237. - Release of escrow deposits.
The city is hereby authorized and directed to execute an agreement amending the original plan and agreement with the employees' retirement system of the state, in substantially the form of the document entitled "State of Georgia Employees' Retirement System Amendment to Plan and Agreement," providing for the release of social security escrow deposits.
(Code 1976, § 2-6057)
Sec. 2-238. - Conformance with state regulations.
The city agrees to abide by the rules and regulations of the employees' retirement system of the state, referred to in this division as the state agency, in regard to collections from city employees and in making reports and payments to the state agency pursuant to this division.
(Code 1976, § 2-6058)
Sec. 2-239. - Pledge of funds.
The city hereby pledges an amount which it would receive in state grant funds as security for assurance that it will make collections from its employees, submit required reports and remit payments to the state agency as agreed to in its plan of coverage of employees for social security benefits. The city further agrees that if the amount of state grant funds which it is entitled to receive in a calendar year is less than its annual payment to the state agency, as may be determined by the state agency, then the city shall deposit in escrow, when so notified in writing by the state agency and in accordance with its rules and regulations, an amount which, when added to the city's state grant funds, would total an amount sufficient to meet its obligations of reporting and remitting collections to the state agency.
(Code 1976, § 2-6059)
Secs. 2-240—2-260. - Reserved.
