ARTICLE V. - OFFSTREET PARKING AND LOADING FACILITIES

Sec. 90-126. - Applicability of article.
Except as otherwise provided, the offstreet parking and loading requirements of this article shall apply and govern in all present or future zoning districts within the jurisdiction of this chapter. Except as provided in this article, no application for a building permit shall be accepted unless there is included with the plan for such building, improvement or use a plot plan showing the number and arrangement of all proposed offstreet parking and loading spaces. A building permit shall not be issued unless the proposed number of offstreet parking and loading spaces complies with the requirements of this chapter and arrangement and design of all offstreet parking and loading spaces meet the requirements of this chapter.
(Code 1976, § 8-3015)
Sec. 90-127. - Variances.
The board of appeals is authorized to vary offstreet parking and loading requirements, provided relief can be granted without impairment of the intent or purpose of this chapter.
(Code 1976, § 8-3016(j))
Sec. 90-128. - General standards.
(a)
Spaces to be separated from street. All offstreet parking and loading spaces, including maneuvering areas, hereafter established shall be separated from an abutting street by a nonaccess curb or planted strip.
(b)
Width of driveways intersecting street. Except when a driveway intersects a state or federal highway, the maximum width of a driveway into a parking, loading or service area shall not exceed 35 feet, exclusive of curb return radii, and in such cases a curb return radius shall not exceed ten feet. In the case of a driveway which intersects a state or federal highway, the width of such driveway shall not exceed 50 feet, inclusive of curb return radii.
(c)
Interior driveways. Interior driveways shall be at least 24 feet wide where used with 90-degree angle parking, at least 18 feet wide where used with 60-degree angle parking and at least 12 feet wide where used with 45-degree angle parking. Where used with parallel parking, or where there is no parking, interior driveways shall be at least 12 feet wide for one-way traffic movement and at least 20 feet wide for two-way traffic movement.
(d)
Location of curb cuts. At the intersection of all streets, except lanes and alleys, a curb cut shall be set back not less than 25 feet from the intersection of two curblines or such lines extended, or shall be set back not less than 15 feet from the intersection of two property lines or such lines extended, whichever is the less restrictive. Between the curb returns for any two driveways serving the same property, there shall be at least 20 feet of curb, except that this distance may be reduced to as little as five feet where it is demonstrated that restricted frontage makes this necessary in order to provide not more than two adequate driveways for the property.
(e)
Location in front yard. No required offstreet parking and loading space, including maneuvering areas for such offstreet parking and loading space, shall be established in a required front yard setback in any district except R districts.
(f)
Prohibited use. No offstreet parking or loading area shall be used for the sale, repair, dismantling or servicing of any vehicles, equipment, materials or supplies.
(g)
Surfacing. Offstreet parking areas for six or more cars, offstreet loading areas and maneuvering areas and passageways established in connection with such facilities shall be provided with a dustproof surface with adequate drainage facilities.
(h)
Buffer for areas adjoining residential use. Where offstreet parking, loading or service areas are proposed to be located closer than 50 feet to a lot in any R zoning district or to any lot upon which there exists a dwelling as a permitted use under this chapter, and where such parking, loading or service areas are not entirely screened visually from such lot by an intervening building or structure, there shall be provided along the lot line a continuous visual buffer with a minimum height of six feet. No such buffer shall extend nearer to a street right-of-way line than the established building line of the adjoining residential lot, and no buffer shall be required along a property line immediately adjoining and parallel to a lane. The buffer shall be of a width determined by the board of zoning appeals, and shall contain within such width a compact evergreen hedge or other type of foliage screening, or a combined fence and shrubbery screen, the latter facing the adjoining residential lot.
(i)
Reduction in size. Required offstreet parking and loading areas shall not be reduced in size or encroached upon in any manner that will reduce the number of offstreet parking and loading spaces below that required by this chapter.
(Code 1976, § 8-3016(a)—(i); Ord. of 5-2-94(3), § 1)
Sec. 90-129. - Number of parking spaces.
At the time of the erection of a principal building or structure or at any time any principal building or structure is enlarged or increased in capacity by increasing the existing floor area by 40 percent or more, there shall be provided offstreet parking spaces in accordance with the following schedule:
EXPAND
(1) One-family dwellings 1 space.
(2) Multifamily dwellings 1½ parking spaces for each dwelling unit with 1 bedroom, and 1¾ parking spaces for each dwelling unit with 2 bedrooms, and 2 parking spaces for each dwelling unit with 3 or more bedrooms; provided that 20 percent of the total number of parking spaces may be reserved for compact cars provided that such spaces are properly designated; and provided further that 2 percent of the total number of parking spaces shall be set aside for the handicapped and properly designated.
(3) Roominghouses and boardinghouses 1 space for each rental unit, plus 1 space for the owner or manager.
(4) Motels and tourist homes 1 space for each guest bedroom.
(5) Trailer courts 1 space for each trailer accommodation, plus 1 space for each 2 employees.
(6) Hospitals 1 space for each 6 patient beds, excluding bassinets, plus 1 space for each medical staff member or visiting doctor, plus 1 space for each 4 employees.
(7) Rest homes and nursing homes 1 space for each 6 beds.
(8) Eleemosynary or philanthropic institutions 1 space for each 2 employees, plus such additional space as the building official shall deem necessary.
(9) Schools 1 space for each 2 employees, plus sufficient space for student parking.
(10) Churches and other places of worship 1 space for each 8 seats in the main auditorium, provided that this may be reduced by the board of appeals when it is demonstrated that more than 50 percent of the present or future attendance is or will be persons who walk to church.
(11) Fraternal halls, assembly halls, community centers, dancehalls, public halls, stadiums and theaters 1 space for each 4 seats in the main auditorium, assembly room or seating area, or 1 space for each 50 square feet of floor area usable for seating if seating is not fixed.
(12) Bowling alleys 4 spaces for each bowling lane.
(13) Combined uses Parking spaces required shall be the total of the spaces required for each separate use established by this schedule.
(14) Business or professional offices 1 space for each 300 square feet of total floor area.
(15) Restaurants and similar establishments serving food and beverages 1 space for each 4 seats provided for patron use.
(16) Barbershops and beauty shops 3 spaces for each barber or hairdresser.
(17) Automobile repair garages 1 space for each gasoline pump, grease rack or service space, plus 1 space for each 500 square feet of total floor area in the repair garage.
(18) Service stations 1 space for each gasoline pump, grease rack or similar service area or service facility.
(19) General business, commercial or personal service establishments catering to retail trade, but not including department stores, grocery stores or variety stores 1 space for each 200 square feet of total floor area.
(20) Furniture stores and appliance stores 1 space for each 500 square feet of total floor area.
(21) Food stores, department stores and variety stores 1 space for each 150 square feet of total floor area.
(22) Shopping centers 1 space for each 150 square feet of total floor area.
(23) Commercial, manufacturing and industrial establishments not catering to retail trade 1 space for each 2 employees at maximum employment on a single shift.
(24) Private clubs 1 space for each 200 square feet of total floor area.
(25) Internet cafés 1 space for each computer monitor on the premises.
  (Code 1976, § 8-3017; Ord. of 2-6-89; Ord. No. 2011-16, § 5, 10-3-11)
Sec. 90-130. - Size and marking of parking spaces.
Each parking space shall be not less than 8½ feet wide and not less than 20 feet in length, exclusive of passageways. Each offstreet parking space shall be clearly marked.
(Code 1976, § 8-3018)
Sec. 90-131. - Location of parking spaces for one-family and two-family dwellings.
Offstreet parking spaces for one-family and two-family dwellings shall be located on the same lot as the main building to be served.
(Code 1976, § 8-3019)
Sec. 90-132. - Remote parking—Generally.
Except as set forth in section 90-131, if the required offstreet parking space cannot reasonably be provided on the same lot as the building it serves, the board of appeals may permit such space to be provided on other offstreet property. In the case of multifamily dwellings, such property shall be within 300 feet of such dwellings as measured along the nearest pedestrian walkway. In the case of all other uses such property shall be within 600 feet of such other uses measured along the nearest pedestrian walkway. All such remote offstreet parking property shall be in the same possession as the lot on which is located the building it is to serve as an offstreet parking area. The remote parking space thus established shall thereafter be associated with that particular building for which it was established and shall not thereafter be reduced or encroached upon in any manner.
(Code 1976, § 8-3020)
Sec. 90-133. - Same—Location in residential district.
Remote offstreet parking serving a commercial use shall be permitted in a residential district under the following conditions:
(1)
The commercial establishments to be served by the proposed remote parking shall be conforming uses.
(2)
The proposed remote offstreet parking shall be on residential property which either adjoins a commercial district as shown on the zoning map on the same side of the street as such district, or lies directly across the street from such zoning district.
(3)
The proposed design and proposed location of such remote offstreet parking facilities shall be approved by the board of appeals.
(4)
The area of the parking facilities shall not exceed 25 percent of the area of the residential lot whereupon the facilities are to be situated unless approved by the mayor and council.
(Code 1976, § 8-3021; Ord. of 5-2-94(3), § 2)
Sec. 90-134. - Combined parking facilities.
The required parking spaces for any number of separate uses may be combined on one lot; provided, however, that the total number of spaces established in such joint facility shall not be less than the sum of the individual requirements for each participating use.
(Code 1976, § 8-3022)
Sec. 90-135. - Sharing of parking facilities.
Offstreet parking facilities for one use shall not be considered as providing the required facilities for any other use, provided that one-half of the offstreet parking space required by any use whose peak attendance is in the daytime and during the week may be assigned to a use which is open at night or on Sunday. In such cases, a legal instrument certifying such assignment and the terms of such assignment shall be submitted to and approved by the building official and the city attorney.
(Code 1976, § 8-3023)
Sec. 90-136. - Loading facilities.
(a)
Required area. At the time of the erection of any principal building or structure or at any time any principal building or structure is enlarged or increased, there shall be provided minimum offstreet loading space as provided in this subsection. For retail sales or service establishments, wholesaling, manufacturing or warehousing establishments, and bus and truck terminals, there shall be sufficient space to accommodate the maximum number of trucks that will be loading, unloading or stored at any one time; provided, however, that there shall be a minimum of one offstreet loading space for each 10,000 square feet of total floor area or fraction thereof.
(b)
Size of spaces. Each loading space shall be not less than ten feet wide and shall be of such length as is necessary to accommodate the type of cab or truck or bus that will be loading, unloading or parking; provided, however, that such length shall be not less than 30 feet. Such spaces, including maneuvering space, shall be located entirely off the street.
(c)
Location. All required offstreet loading spaces shall be located on the same lot as the building or use which they are intended to serve.
(Code 1976, § 8-3024)
Sec. 90-137. - Parking of boats and trailers restricted to driveways in front yards of residentially zoned properties.
(a)
Parking of boats and trailers shall be prohibited in the front yards of residentially zoned properties, except in driveways. For purposes of this section, a "driveway" shall include any paved or graveled area established on the subject property for the parking of automobiles or any other area otherwise clearly demarcated by the owner for the parking of vehicles, and shall not include any unimproved surface which includes, but is not limited to, grass and dirt surfaces.
(b)
An owner of residentially zoned property may, upon written request to the city manager, request a temporary suspension of the regulations applicable to his/her property by this section. The city manager is authorized to grant such suspensions for up to seven consecutive days at a time and to establish any necessary rules for implementation of such temporary suspensions.
(c)
The board of zoning appeals shall be authorized to grant variances to the requirements of this section due to unusual hardship conditions provided that:
(1)
The granting of a variance will not be detrimental to persons or property in the neighborhood
(2)
The granting of a variance is not contrary to the intent of this section, and
(3)
The granting of a variance will alleviate a hardship on the party applying for same.
(Ord. No. 2011-14, § 1, 7-18-11)
Secs. 90-138—90-155. - Reserved.
