ARTICLE VII. - FINANCE[12]

Footnotes:
--- (12) ---
Charter reference— Finance, accounting and budgeting, § 6.10 et seq.
State Law reference— Power of expenditure, Ga. Const. art. 9, sec. 4, par. 2; discretion of governing body as to management and disposition of property, O.C.G.A. § 36-30-2; acquisition, sale and lease of real and personal property, O.C.G.A. § 36-37-1; disposition of municipal property, O.C.G.A. § 36-37-6; multiyear lease, purchase or lease purchase contracts, O.C.G.A. § 36-60-13; budgets and audits, O.C.G.A. § 36-81-1 et seq.; accounting for public funds, O.C.G.A. § 45-8-1 et seq.; local political subdivision purchases, O.C.G.A. § 50-5-100 et seq.

Sec. 2-261. - Purpose of article; title.
The purpose of this article, to be known as the fiscal control ordinance of the city, is to provide for a system of financial administration, accounting, fiscal and budgetary control which conforms to generally accepted accounting practices.
(Code 1976, § 2-5081)
Sec. 2-262. - Administration of article.
The responsibility for the proper execution of the provisions of this fiscal control article shall be with the chairman of the personnel, finance and administration committee, except where the responsibility is explicitly given to the council.
(Code 1976, § 2-5098)
Sec. 2-263. - Fiscal year.
The fiscal year of the city shall begin on January 1 and shall end on December 31.
(Code 1976, § 2-5082)
Sec. 2-264. - Annual budget.
(a)
Adoption generally; date of adoption. An annual budget will be adopted by the council prior to the first day of the fiscal year. However, if for good and sufficient reasons the budget cannot be adopted by the first day of the fiscal year, the budget shall be adopted not later than 45 days subsequent to the beginning of the fiscal year. If the budget is not adopted prior to the beginning of the fiscal year, a resolution authorizing the continuation of necessary and essential expenditures to operate the city shall be adopted prior to the beginning of the fiscal year. The proposed budget shall be prepared by the chairman of the personnel, finance and administration committee and transmitted to members of the council for their review a minimum of 45 days before the required date of adoption. The budget as adopted shall be a balanced budget with anticipated revenues, including appropriated unencumbered surplus, equal to appropriated expenditures. All funds within the budget shall also be balanced.
(b)
Proposed budget to be available for public inspection. At the time the proposed budget is transmitted to members of the council by the chairman of the personnel, finance and administration committee, a copy of the proposed budget shall be made available for public inspection in the office of the city clerk during regular office hours. A statement advising the residents of the city of the availability of the proposed budget shall be published in a newspaper of general circulation within the city's jurisdiction. The notice shall be published during the week in which the proposed budget is submitted to members of the council. In addition, the statement shall also advise the residents that a public hearing will be held at which time any persons wishing to be heard on the budget may appear. The statement shall be a prominently displayed advertisement or news article and shall not be placed in that section of the newspaper where legal notices appear.
(c)
Public hearing on proposed budget. At least one week prior to the meeting of city council at which adoption of the budget ordinance or resolution will be considered, the council shall conduct a public hearing, at which time any persons wishing to be heard on the budget may appear. The city shall give notice of the time and place of the budget hearing at least one week before the budget hearing is held. The notice shall be published in a newspaper of general circulation within the city's jurisdiction. The statement shall be a prominently displayed advertisement or news article and shall not be placed in that section of the newspaper where legal notices appear. The notice required by this subsection (c) may be included in the statement published pursuant to subsection (b) in lieu of separate publication of the notice. Nothing in this Code section shall be deemed to preclude the conduct of further budget hearings if the city deems such hearing necessary and complies with the requirements of subsection (b) of this Code section.
(d)
Budget resolution; form of budget; amendments. The adoption of the budget shall be accomplished by the approval of a budget resolution which specifies the anticipated revenues by appropriate categories and the appropriated expenditures for each department and each nondepartmental expense and the amount for each fund covered by the budget. Amendments to the budget shall be approved by resolution.
(Code 1976, §§ 2-5083, 2-5085—2-5087; Ord. No. 2001-1, § 1, 1-16-01)
Sec. 2-265. - Basis for anticipated revenues.
The chairman of the personnel, finance and administration committee shall present the statement of anticipated revenues on the basis of the ordinary and reasonable revenues which can be expected for the fiscal year.
(Code 1976, § 2-5090)
Sec. 2-266. - Increase in appropriations; transfer of appropriations.
(a)
Approval. Any increase in appropriation in a departmental budget or in a nondepartmental expense category, whether accomplished through a change in anticipated revenues or through a transfer of appropriations among departments and nondepartmental expenses, shall require the approval of the council in the form of an amendment to the budget resolution. The transfer of appropriations among the various accounts within a departmental budget or within a nondepartmental expense category shall only require the approval of the mayor and council. Any transfer of appropriations within a departmental budget so as to increase the salary appropriations for the purpose of employing additional personnel shall require the approval of the council.
(b)
Transfers from sinking fund or debt retirement fund. No appropriation transfer shall be made from a sinking fund or debt retirement fund until all the legal obligations and requirements of such fund have been satisfied.
(Code 1976, §§ 2-5088, 2-5089)
Sec. 2-267. - Unused appropriations.
All appropriations which are not obligated, encumbered or expended at the end of the fiscal year shall lapse and shall become a part of the unencumbered surplus, which may be appropriated for the next fiscal year.
(Code 1976, § 2-5091)
Sec. 2-268. - Expenditures generally; bidding required for certain purchases.
No expenditure in any fund shall be legal or proper unless appropriations adequate to meet that expenditure have been made in the budget. Purchases in excess of $5,000.00 shall be on the basis of sealed bids.
(Code 1976, § 2-5084)
Sec. 2-269. - Funds established.
The following funds may be established and shall be used as necessary to provide for the proper accounting of all financial activities of the city:
(1)
The general fund to account for the general governmental operations and all financial transactions not properly accounted for in another fund.
(2)
Special revenue funds to account for the proceeds of special revenue sources other than special assessments, or to finance specified activities as required by law or administrative regulation.
(3)
Debt service funds to account for the payment of interest and principal on longterm debt other than special assessment and revenue bonds.
(4)
Capital projects funds to account for the receipt and disbursement of monies, including bond funds, used for the acquisition of capital facilities other than those financed by special assessment and enterprise funds.
(5)
Enterprise (utility) funds to account for the financing of services to the general public where all or most of the costs involved are paid in the form of charges by users of such services.
(6)
Trust and agency funds to account for assets held by a governmental unit as trustee or agent for individuals, private organizations and other governmental units.
(7)
Intergovernmental service funds to account for the financing of special activities and services performed by a designated organization unit within a governmental jurisdiction for other organization units within the same governmental jurisdiction.
(8)
Special assessment funds to account for special assessments levied to finance public improvements or services deemed to benefit the properties against which the assessments are levied.
(Code 1976, § 2-5092)
Sec. 2-270. - Accounting requirements for individual funds.
A complete self-balancing group of accounts shall be established and maintained for each fund used. This group of accounts shall include all general ledger accounts and subsidiary records necessary to reflect compliance with legal provisions and to set forth the financial position and the results of financial operations of the fund.
(Code 1976, § 2-5093)
Sec. 2-271. - Additional accounts.
Additional accounts, as follows, shall be maintained:
(1)
A fixed asset account for the purpose of accounting for those assets which:
a.
Are of a tangible nature;
b.
Have a life longer than one fiscal year; and
c.
Have a significant value.
General fixed assets shall be recorded at original cost, shall not be depreciated and shall be removed from the account when disposed of. Enterprise funds' fixed assets may be depreciated.
(2)
A longterm debt account for the purpose of accounting for a longterm debt and for recording and fairly representing the liability for longterm debt at any time from date of issuance until the debt is retired.
(Code 1976, § 2-5094)
Sec. 2-272. - Method of accounting.
To the extent possible, the modified accrual basis of accounting shall be used so that expenditures, other than accrued interest on longterm debt, are recorded at the time liabilities are incurred and revenues are recorded when cash is received, except for material or available revenues, which shall be accrued to reflect properly the taxes levied and the revenues earned. All receipts and disbursements shall be posted promptly and at least on a monthly basis. To the extent possible, all interfund transfers shall be cleared by the end of the fiscal year.
(Code 1976, § 2-5095)
Sec. 2-273. - Financial statements and reports.
Financial statements and reports showing the current conditions of budgetary and proprietary accounts shall be prepared and presented to the council at least every six months. Not later than six months after the close of the fiscal year, a comprehensive annual financial report covering all funds and financial operations shall be prepared and published. A summary of this report, containing at least a statement of revenues and expenditures as of the close of the preceding fiscal year and the combined balance sheet for all funds and account groups, shall be published in a newspaper of general circulation in the city.
(Code 1976, § 2-5096)
Sec. 2-274. - Annual audit.
All the funds, accounts and financial transactions of the city shall be subjected to an annual audit by an independent certified public accountant, who is to be selected by the city council. The audit shall be conducted according to the standards set forth in the publication of the American Institute of Certified Public Accountants entitled "Audits of State and Local Governmental Units."
(Code 1976, § 2-5097)
Sec. 2-275. - Financial administration department established.
The mayor and city council establish the financial administration department and may provide sufficient annual expenditure appropriation to the department for the proper execution of the financial administration responsibilities designated by the City Charter and this Code.
(Ord. No. 2001-15, 12-3-01)
Secs. 2-276—2-295. - Reserved.
