Chapter 42 - HEALTH AND SANITATION[1]
Footnotes:
--- (1) ---
Cross reference— Alcoholic beverages, ch. 6; animals, ch. 14; buildings and building regulations, ch. 18; businesses, ch. 22; environment, ch. 30; fire prevention and protection, ch. 34; solid waste, ch. 62; streets, sidewalks and other public places, ch. 66; utilities, ch. 82.
State Law reference— Power of county board of health to adopt and enforce rules and regulations, O.C.G.A. § 31-3-4(4); rules and regulations of local application, O.C.G.A. § 31-3-6; promulgation of rules, regulations and standards by Department of Human Resources and county boards of health, O.C.G.A. § 26-2-373.

ARTICLE I. - IN GENERAL

Secs. 42-1—42-25. - Reserved.
ARTICLE II. - PRIVATE WATER WELLS[2]

Footnotes:
--- (2) ---
Cross reference— Businesses, ch. 22.
State Law reference— Water Well Standards Act of 1985, O.C.G.A. § 12-5-120.

Sec. 42-26. - Penalty for violation of article.
Any person violating any of the provisions of this article shall, upon conviction of such violation before the judge of the municipal court of the city, be punished as provided in section 1-13.
(Code 1976, § 5-1028)
Sec. 42-27. - Connection to public water system.
Connection shall be made to a public or community water system when such connection is available within 200 feet of the building or residence, or available in a public right-of-way abutting the property. In the case of a subdivision development, connection shall be made to the public or community water system when such connection is available within 500 feet of any point of the development.
(Code 1976, § 5-1021(a))
Sec. 42-28. - Construction permit.
No person may construct an individual water supply system without having first applied for and obtained from the office of the building official a construction permit for such systems. Applications for such permits shall be made in writing on forms provided by the office of the building official and shall include:
(1)
The name and address of the applicant, and of the owner of the property where different from the applicant.
(2)
A legal or other description adequate to locate the property and the well.
(3)
The name and address of the licensed water well contractor.
(4)
The estimated depth in feet and method of construction.
(5)
The purpose for which the well is to be used and the desired yield.
(6)
The proposed diameter of the well in inches.
(7)
The type of well casing proposed.
(8)
The approximate distance and relative elevation to the well of any potential sources of groundwater pollution.
(Code 1976, § 5-1021(b))
Sec. 42-29. - Driller's log.
The person drilling a well for an individual water supply system shall maintain accurate driller's logs, including size and length of casings, grouting depth and complete results of the pumping water levels, and shall send copies of the data to the owner and the county health department.
(Code 1976, § 5-1021(c))
Sec. 42-30. - Inspection and approval required prior to use.
No person may place into use an individual water supply for human consumption until final inspection has been made by the county health department to determine compliance with provisions of this article and written approval has been issued by the county health department.
(Code 1976, § 5-1021(d))
Sec. 42-31. - Location.
(a)
The minimum acceptable distance between a well for an individual water supply system and sources of pollution located on either the same or an adjoining lot is 100 feet. Where, in the opinion of the county health department, adverse conditions exist, this distance shall be increased or special means of protection shall be provided. Additional minimum distances are as follows:
EXPAND
Distance From Feet
Septic tank tile field 100
Septic tank  50
Sewer lines with permanent watertight joints  10
Chemically poisoned soil 100
  (b)
Wells for potable water for human consumption shall be located at least ten feet from property lines, and when located near a building they shall be far enough from the building to be accessible for repairs and maintenance, but in no case shall they be so located that the centerline of the well, extended vertically, will clear any projection from the building by less than two feet.
(c)
Wells shall not be located in areas subject to flooding.
(Code 1976, § 5-1022)
Sec. 42-32. - Capacity; pressure.
(a)
The capacity of the well for an individual water supply system, as demonstrated by test pumping or yield testing, shall be adequate to supply the daily and peak load requirements of the single-family dwelling needs. This should not be less than a sustained flow of five gallons per minute, and where this is not possible the water supply system design shall be altered by increasing storage tank capacity or by other appropriate measures.
(b)
Pump capacity shall not exceed the capacity of the well and the pump shall be capable of maintaining a minimum pressure of not less than 20 pounds per square inch. The pressure tank shall have a capacity of not less than 42 gallons.
(Code 1976, § 5-1023)
Sec. 42-33. - Construction specifications.
(a)
Preparation of ground surface. A well for an individual water supply system shall be graded to facilitate the rapid drainage of surface water to a distance of not less than 50 feet from the well, in all directions, unless prevented by site conditions, in which case a diversion ditch or trench shall be constructed to effectively exclude surface water from the well site. Pump platforms, pump room floors, well slabs and well covers shall be located not less than two feet above the highest known high-water level.
(b)
Depth. Shallow wells of less than 42 feet are not approved for individual potable water supply systems, and wells shall be cased a minimum of 42 feet. A screen shall be used and the well is to be gravel-grouted.
(c)
Driven wells. The well point, drive pipe and joints shall be structurally suitable to prevent rupture during construction of the well. The well slab shall be reinforced with steel rods and be a minimum of four inches thick near the well center, sloping to a two-inch thickness at the edge. The slab shall extend a minimum distance of two feet from the casing.
(d)
Drilled wells.
(1)
Drilled wells shall be cased with durable materials, such as steel or wrought iron, capable of sustaining the load imposed to a point several feet below the water level in the well at the time of maximum drawdown or from an impervious stratum, if one exists above the water-bearing formation, to at least 12 inches above the concrete slab at the ground surface. The annular space shall not be less than 1½ inches thick between the casing and sides of the hole and shall be filled with grout down to solid rock, or in any case not less than ten feet.
(2)
Subsurface well construction shall cease for at least 24 hours after grouting. A sanitary well seal and well slab shall be provided with features conforming to requirements for dug wells. Drive shoes shall not be used in a drilled well.
(e)
Materials. No materials shall be used in the well or pump installation that will result in delivered water being toxic or having an objectionable taste or odor. All metallic and nonmetallic materials shall have sufficient structural strength and other properties to accomplish the purpose for which installed. Plastic pipe shall not be used unless bearing the approval of the National Sanitation Foundation or equivalent and unless having the physical properties to withstand the torque and load to which it is subjected. There shall be no cross connections connecting potable water supplies with nonpotable or questionable water sources such as irrigation wells, agricultural wells, etc.
(f)
Estimation of necessary casing. Depth of well casing shall be estimated, based on subsection (g) of this section, before drilling is started, and that amount of casing shall be placed at the well site before drilling is started.
(g)
Depth of casing. Steel casing shall be set a minimum of 60 feet into limestone.
(Code 1976, § 5-1024(a)—(f), (h))
Sec. 42-34. - Use of well for operation of air conditioning system.
No well shall be drilled for the specific purpose of operating a home air conditioning unit.
(Code 1976, § 5-1024(g))
Sec. 42-35. - Compliance with electrical code.
The electrical wiring and controls of a well for an individual water supply system shall meet the requirements of the city electrical code.
(Code 1976, § 5-1027)
Sec. 42-36. - Disinfection and water sampling.
(a)
Generally. All newly constructed wells for individual water supply systems shall be disinfected to neutralize contamination introduced through equipment, material or surface drainage during construction procedures. If water samples show bacterial contamination, and continue to do so after all redemptive measures are carried out, provisions shall be made for continuous treatment of the water by chlorination or for abandonment of the well.
(b)
Disinfection after repairs. At any time the well seal is broken open for repairs, inspection or maintenance, the well shall be disinfected.
(Code 1976, §§ 5-1025, 5-1026)
