ARTICLE III. - OFFICERS AND EMPLOYEES[5]

Footnotes:
--- (5) ---
Charter reference— Administrative and service departments, § 3.20; personnel policies, § 3.30.
State Law reference— City's power to define, regulate and alter the powers, duties, qualifications, compensation and tenure of all municipal officers, agents and employees, O.C.G.A. § 36-34-2(2).

Sec. 2-101. - Duties of clerk.
(a)
The duties of the clerk shall include the following:
(1)
The clerk shall publish all legal notices required by law or ordinance;
(2)
The clerk shall notify the council or other appointing authority of the impending expiration of the term of office of members of boards and commissions, such notice to be given at least 30 days before such expiration; and
(3)
The clerk shall be the custodian of the official seal of the city.
(b)
Within ten days after each council meeting, the clerk shall furnish to each councilmember a copy of the minutes of the preceding meeting.
(Code 1976, §§ 2-1011, 2-3002)
Sec. 2-102. - City attorney.
(a)
The city attorney shall be elected or appointed at the first regular meeting of the council held each year, for a period of two years, or for such term as the council may fix. He shall perform the duties required by section 3.22 and other sections of the city Charter.
(b)
In addition to such duties, the city attorney shall attend regular meetings of the council and all special meetings whenever requested by the mayor or two of the councilmen, shall give legal opinions upon any subject connected with the interests of the city whenever desired by the mayor or any of the councilmen, shall revise any ordinance submitted to him, and generally shall be the legal advisor, counsellor and advocate of the city.
(c)
The city attorney shall be paid such salary as fixed by the council.
(Code 1976, § 2-3003)
Charter reference— City attorney, § 3.22.
Sec. 2-103. - Duties of city marshal.
The city marshal shall:
(1)
Make a return on each execution placed in his hands and pay over to the city administrator all monies received by him from such executions.
(2)
Levy and enforce executions of all processes placed in his hands, including specifically water rents, assessments, licenses, etc.
(3)
Abate or remove any nuisance when so directed by the council.
(4)
Serve himself, or through his duly designated agent, in any manner prescribed by applicable law, any process, summons, notice or order on all persons when:
a.
The paper to be served arises out of or relates to an activity or condition, other than a single isolated act or omission, conducted or maintained by such person within the territorial jurisdiction of the city in violation of an applicable law or ordinance covering the following: municipal housing, building, electrical, plumbing, heating, ventilating, air conditioning, air and water pollution control, and other technical or environmental codes; and municipal business, occupation and professional license tax ordinances or municipal privilege license or permit ordinances; and
b.
Each and every day the condition is maintained or the activity is conducted is made a separate municipal offense by applicable law or ordinance.
(Code 1976, § 2-1014; Ord. of 5-3-93(1), § 1)
Secs. 2-104—2-125. - Reserved.
