ARTICLE VII. - CROSS CONNECTION CONTROLS

Sec. 82-230. - Definitions.
The following words, terms and phrases, when used in this article, shall have the meanings ascribed to them in this section, except where the context clearly indicates a different meaning:
Auxiliary intake means any piping connection or other device where water may be secured from a source other than that normally used.
Bypass means any system of piping or other arrangement where the water may be diverted around any part or portion of a water purification plant.
Cross connection means any physical connection where the public water supply is connected with any other water supply system, whether public or private, either inside or outside of any building, in such manner that a flow of water into the public water supply is possible either through the manipulation of valves or because of ineffective check or backpressure valves, or because of any other arrangement.
Interconnection means any system of piping or other arrangement where the public water supply is connected directly with a sewer, drain, conduit, pool, storage reservoir or other device which does or may contain sewage or other waste or liquid which would be capable of imparting contamination to the public water supply.
Public water supply means the waterworks system furnishing water to the city for general use, and which supply is recognized as the public water supply by the state department of natural resources/environmental protection division.
(Ord. of 4-16-07(5), § 1)
Sec. 82-231. - Compliance with state and federal laws.
The city's public water supply is to comply with Chapter 391-3-5-13 of the Georgia Rules for Safe Drinking Water and the Federal Safe Drinking Water Act, PL 93-523, legally adopted in accordance with this Code, which pertain to cross connections, and establish an effective ongoing program to control these undesirable water uses.
(Ord. of 4-16-07(5), § 1)
Sec. 82-232. - Prohibitions.
It shall be unlawful for any person to cause a cross connection, auxiliary intake, bypass or interconnection to be made, or allow one to exist for any purpose.
(Ord. of 4-16-07(5), § 1)
Sec. 82-233. - Statement.
Any person whose premises are supplied with water from a public water supply, and who also has on the same premises a separate source of water supply, or stores water in an uncovered or unsanitary storage reservoir from which the water stored therein is circulated through a piping system, shall file with the public works superintendent of the city a statement of the existence of unapproved or unauthorized cross connections, auxiliary intakes, bypasses or interconnections. Such statement shall also contain an agreement that no cross connection will be permitted upon the premises.
(Ord. of 4-16-07(5), § 1)
Sec. 82-234. - Inspection; backflow preventer.
It shall be the duty of the city's public works department to cause inspections to be made of all properties served by the public water supply where cross connections with the public water supply are deemed possible. The frequency of inspections and reinspections based on potential health hazards involved shall be as established by the city's public works superintendent. The public works superintendent or his designated representative shall require the use of an approved protective device on the service line serving the premises to assure that any contamination that may originate in the customer's premises is contained therein. The protective device shall be a reduced pressure zone type backflow preventer approved by the public works superintendent as to manufacture, model and size. The method of installation of backflow protective devices shall be approved by the public works superintendent prior to installation and shall comply with the criteria set forth by the superintendent. The installation shall be at the expense of the owner and/or occupant of the premises as identified from city public utility billing database information and from the public land records of Chatham County, Georgia. Certification of proper installation shall be provided by qualified personnel acceptable to the public works superintendent; if such certification is not forthcoming within 14 days after a request has been made therefor by the city, the city shall inspect the backflow preventer and charge a reasonable inspection fee for doing same to the person in whose name municipal utility services have been placed on account with the city with respect to the property in question. Regardless of the party against whom this charge is initially made, the owner of the property in question shall be ultimately obligated to pay same. The public works department shall have the right to inspect and test the device on an annual basis or whenever deemed necessary by the public works superintendent or his designated representative. Water service shall not be disrupted to test the device without the knowledge of the person in whose name municipal utility services have been placed on account with the city with respect to the property in question. Where the use of water is critical to the continuance of normal operations or protection of life, property or equipment, duplicated units shall be provided to avoid the necessity of discontinuing water service to test or repair the protective device. Where only one unit is installed and the continuance of service is critical, the public works superintendent shall notify, in writing, the person in whose name municipal utility services have been placed on account with the city with respect to the property in question of plans to discontinue water service and arrange for a mutually acceptable time to test and/or repair the device. The public works department shall require the owner and/or occupant of the premises to make all repairs promptly, and the expense of such repairs shall be borne by such parties. These repairs shall be made by qualified personnel, acceptable to the public works superintendent. If such repairs are not commenced and diligently pursued within 14 days of a request being made therefor, the city may perform such repairs and bill the cost thereof to the person in whose name municipal utility services have been placed on account with the city with respect to the property in question. Regardless of the party against whom this charge is initially made, the owner of the property in question shall be ultimately obligated to pay same.
(Ord. No. 2010-10, § 1, 7-19-10)
Editor's note— Ord. No. 2010-10, § 1, adopted July 19, 2010, repealed former § 82-234, and enacted a new § 82-234 as set out herein. Former § 82-234 pertained to the same subject matter and derived from Ord. of 4-16-07(5), § 1.
Sec. 82-235. - Right to enter property.
The public works superintendent shall have the right to enter at any reasonable time, any property served by a connection to the city's public water supply for the purpose of inspecting the piping system thereof for cross connections, auxiliary intakes, bypasses or interconnections. On request, the owner, lessee or occupant of any property so serviced shall furnish to the inspection agency any pertinent information regarding the piping system on such property. The refusal of such information or refusal of access, when requested, shall be deemed evidence of the presence of a cross connection.
(Ord. of 4-16-07(5), § 1)
Sec. 82-236. - Compliance.
Any person who now has cross connections, auxiliary intakes, bypasses or interconnections in violation of the provisions of this article shall be allowed a reasonable time within which to comply with the provisions of this article. After a thorough investigation of existing conditions and an appraisal of the time required to complete the work, the amount of time shall be designated by the public works superintendent of the city.
(Ord. of 4-16-07(5), § 1)
Sec. 82-237. - Change of protective measures.
There is a likelihood that protective measures may be subverted, altered or disconnected where the nature of use of the water supplied to a premises by the public works department is such that it is deemed:
(1)
Impractical to provide an effective air gap separation.
(2)
That the owner and/or occupant of the premises cannot or is not willing to demonstrate to the official in charge of the system or his designated representative that the water use and protective features of the plumbing are such as to pose no threat to the safety and potability of the water supply.
(3)
That the nature and mode of operation within a premises are such that frequent alterations are made to the plumbing.
(Ord. of 4-16-07(5), § 1)
Sec. 82-238. - Protection from contamination; labeling.
The potable water supply made available on the properties served by the public water supply shall be protected from possible contamination. Any water outlet which could be used for potable or domestic purposes and which is not supplied by the potable system must be labeled in a conspicuous manner as:
WATER UNSAFE FOR DRINKING
A minimum acceptable sign shall have black letters one inch high located on a red background.
(Ord. of 4-16-07(5), § 1)
Sec. 82-239. - Violation; penalty.
Any person who neglects or refuses to comply with any of the provisions of this article shall be deemed in violation of this article and, upon conviction thereof, shall be punished as provided in section 1-13. In addition to the fines and penalties set forth in this section, the public works superintendent of the city shall discontinue the public water supply service at any premises found not to be in compliance with this article and the water supply shall not be restored until such cross connection, auxiliary intake, bypass or interconnection has been discontinued.
(Ord. of 4-16-07(5), § 1)
