ARTICLE I. - IN GENERAL

Sec. 46-1. - Levy on companies and agents; filing return.
(a)
Insurers' license fees. There is hereby levied for the year 1995 and for each year thereafter an annual license fee upon each insurer doing business within the city in the amount as established by ordinance. For each separate business location in excess of one, not covered by subsection (b) of this section, which is operating on behalf of such insurers within the city, there is hereby levied a license fee in the amount as established by ordinance. For the purposes of this section, the term "insurer" means a company which is authorized to transact business in any of the classes of insurance designated in O.C.G.A. § 33-3-5.
(b)
License fees for insurers insuring certain risks at additional business locations. For each separate business location, not otherwise subject to a license fee hereunder, operated and maintained by a business organization which is engaged in the business of lending money or transacting sales involving term financing and in connection with such loans or sales offers, solicits or takes application for insurance through a licensed agent of an insurer for insurance, said insurer shall pay an additional license fee as established by ordinance, per location for the year 1995 and for each year thereafter.
(c)
Insurers' agency license fees; independent insurance agencies, brokers, etc., not otherwise licensed. There is hereby levied for the year 1995 and for each year thereafter an annual license fee upon independent agencies and brokers for each separate business location from which an insurance business is conducted and which is not subject to the company license fee imposed by subsection (a) of this section, in the amount as established by ordinance, for each such location within the city.
(d)
Gross premiums tax—Imposed on life insurers. There is hereby levied for the year 1995 and for each year thereafter an annual tax based solely upon gross direct premiums upon each insurer writing life, accident and sickness insurance within the state in an amount equal to one percent of the gross direct premiums received during the preceding calendar year in accordance with O.C.G.A. § 33-8-8.1. Gross direct premiums as used in this section shall mean gross direct premiums as used in O.C.G.A. § 33-8-4. The premium tax levied by this section is in addition to the license fees imposed by subsection (a) of this section.
(e)
Same—All other insurers. There is hereby levied for the year 1995 and for each year thereafter an annual tax based solely upon gross direct premiums upon each insurer, other than an insurer transacting business in the class of insurance designated in O.C.G.A. § 33-3-5(2), doing business within the state in an amount equal to 2.5 percent of the gross direct premiums received during the preceding calendar year in accordance with O.C.G.A. § 33-8-8.2. Gross direct premiums as used in this section shall mean gross direct premiums as used in O.C.G.A. § 33-8-4. The premium tax levied by this section is in addition to the license fees imposed by subsection (a) of this section.
(f)
Due date for license fees. License fees imposed in subsections (a) and (b) of this section shall be due and payable on the first day of 1995 and on the first date of each subsequent year. Those not paid by March 15 will be considered delinquent and will be collected by such action as provided for hereinafter.
(g)
Filing and reporting requirements. Every insurance company doing business in the city and subject to the fees and taxes herein imposed shall file with the finance director, on forms prescribed by the finance director, a report showing the names and addresses of its agents representing such company in the city; the location and person in charge of each business location within the city operated and maintained by such company; the classes of insurance written; and such other reasonable information as may be required, and, in addition, shall furnish complete information regarding the premium received, by class, from policies written on risks residing or located within the city. Such report shall be made over affidavit of an officer of such company. It is hereby declared to be a violation of this section for any person, or the agent of any person to knowingly give false or incomplete information on any such report. Said report shall be filed at the time of paying the license fee and premium tax.
(h)
Confidentiality of information. All reports required to be filed under this section shall be confidential and the information contained therein shall be solely for the use of the officers of the city responsible for administering this section.
(i)
Penalties. The fees and taxes levied by this section may be enforced by execution in the same manner as other taxes of the city. A violation of this section shall be grounds for refusing or revoking a license, and the person responsible may be punished as for violations of other city ordinances.
(j)
Administrative provisions. The finance director is hereby directed to forward a duly certified copy of this section to the insurance commissioner of the state within 45 days of its enactment.
(Code 1986, § 14-40; Ord. No. O-94-12-41, 12-22-1994; Ord. No. O-97-12-39, 12-18-1997; Ord. No. O-04-12-33, 12-16-2004)
State Law reference— Insurance license fees and taxes, O.C.G.A. § 33-8-8 et seq.
Sec. 46-2. - Junk dealers.
All houses or places of business where a junk shop is conducted shall at all times be subject to visitation and inspection by the police of the city; shall keep books showing daily transactions, giving the name and address of all persons making sales to such place of business, and shall describe the articles of merchandise purchased, together with the date of purchase, which books shall be subject to inspection by the police at any time a police officer desires the same. If any person who conducts such a business shall, at any time, refuse to submit to such visitation or inspection, or fails or refuses to keep such books, or fails or refuses to permit the police to make inspection of the same, the mayor shall immediately close the place of business of such person so refusing. In case any machinery or any part thereof or any appliance of any railroad shop or gas company, or waterworks, or sample waste or loose cotton, grates or any part thereof, or gas or waterworks fixtures shall be found in any junk shop, without a sufficient explanation of the same, or anyone who violates any of the terms of this section, it shall subject the owner or person conducting such shop, upon conviction, to punishment prescribed in section 1-8, and conviction of a second offense shall be a just and conclusive cause for the revocation of the license of such business.
(Code 1962, § 15-17; Code 1986, § 14-70)
Sec. 46-3. - Yard sales.
(a)
For the purpose of this Code, a "yard sale," which may also be known as a "garage sale" or a "rummage sale," is defined as an informal, irregularly scheduled marketplace of used and/or new household goods. Typically, the items for sale are unwanted items from the household conducting the sale, but a yard sale may include items purchased for resale. The seller displays the items for sale to the public, usually in a garage, in a yard, in a driveway, or within the living area of the household. The duration of a yard sale is one calendar day.
(b)
Yard sales are permitted to be held on private property within the corporate limits of the city. No permit or business license shall be required from the city in order to conduct a yard sale; provided, however, that one individual or family shall not conduct more than five yard sales during each calendar year. Any individual or family conducting more than five yard sales in a single calendar year period shall be considered to be in the "yard sale" business and shall obtain a business license from the city.
(Ord. No. O-07-10-36, § 14-71, 10-18-2007)
Secs. 46-4—46-22. - Reserved.
