ARTICLE XIII. - AUTHORIZATION OF MOBILE FOOD TRUCKS WITHIN THE CORPORATE LIMITS OF THE CITY

Sec. 46-470. - Definitions.
For the purposes of this article, a mobile food truck is a food truck from which the owner or operator thereof cooks, prepares, sells, serves, or delivers food, food-related items, and beverages to individual purchasers within the corporate limits of the City of Americus.
(Ord. No. O-2020-10, 7-23-2020)
Sec. 46-471. - Operation of mobile food trucks.
Mobile food trucks shall be authorized to cook, prepare, sell, serve, and deliver food, food-related items, and beverages within the incorporated limits of the City of Americus from a mobile food truck. Any mobile food truck, whether owned by an individual or corporate or other legal entity, shall only be authorized to operate as a mobile food truck in accord with this article if the person or legal entity owning the mobile food truck obtains an appropriate food service permit or license from the Sumter County Health Department and pays for and obtains the applicable business licenses, occupation taxes, and regulatory fees imposed pursuant to article IV of this chapter of the City Code of Ordinances.
(Ord. No. O-2020-10, 7-23-2020)
Sec. 46-472. - Food truck operational regulations.
In addition to the foregoing requirements, any mobile food truck operating within the corporate limits of the city shall be subject to the following requirements:
(1)
No mobile food truck shall operate its business while parked in a designated public parking place on the streets of the city.
(2)
No mobile food truck shall operate its business from any location upon private property without the written permission of the owner of the private property, which written permission shall be displayed to appropriate law enforcement officers of the city upon request.
(3)
No mobile food truck shall operate its business from any location upon public property without the written permission of the owner of the public property, which written permission shall be displayed to appropriate law enforcement officers of the city upon request.
(4)
No mobile food truck shall sell, serve, or deliver any alcoholic beverages to its customers or to any other persons at any time.
(5)
No mobile food truck shall allow its customers to consume food, food related items or beverages inside of the mobile food truck.
(6)
No mobile food truck shall operate its business upon the property of any public school system, private school system, property of a college of the Technical College System of Georgia, property of a unit of the University System of Georgia without written permission from the school, technical college, or the local unit of the university system to do so.
(7)
No mobile food truck shall stop, stand, or park in lanes of motor vehicle travel on public rights-of-way within the city except where otherwise required to do so by applicable traffic laws.
(8)
No mobile food truck shall utilize microphones, megaphones, loudspeakers, loud bells, whistles, or other similar attention-getting sound equipment to advertise its food products.
(9)
The driver of each mobile food truck shall possess a valid commercial driver's license on his or her person at all times while driving or operating a mobile food truck.
(Ord. No. O-2020-10, 7-23-2020)
Sec. 46-473. - Exceptions.
(a)
The provisions of this article shall not apply to the sales of ice cream and ice cream products from mobile trucks by what are commonly known as "ice cream trucks" within the corporate limits of the city.
(b)
The provisions of this article shall not apply to the commercial delivery of food, food related items, beverages, and other merchandise by commercial delivery trucks to business purchasers thereof for resale to retail or wholesale customers.
(c)
The provisions of this article shall not apply to the delivery of alcoholic beverages within the corporate limits of the city by licensed caterers; provided, however, that nothing herein shall be construed to authorize the sale or delivery of alcoholic beverages within the corporate limits of the city where such sales or deliveries are prohibited by chapter 6 of the City Code of Ordinances.
(Ord. No. O-2020-10, 7-23-2020)
Sec. 46-574. - Violations of article.
Any person who violates the provisions of this article, upon conviction or a plea of nolo contendere to such a charge, shall be subject to punishment in the municipal court of the city in accord with the provisions of chapter 1, section 1-8 of the Code of Ordinances of the city.
(Ord. No. O-2020-10, 7-23-2020)
