ARTICLE V. - ELECTIONS AND REMOVAL
CHAPTER 1. - CONDUCT OF ELECTIONS

Sec. 5-101. - Application of general laws.
All municipal general or special elections or referendums and primaries shall be held and conducted in accordance with chapter 3 of title 21 of the OCGA, the "Georgia Municipal Election Code," as now or hereafter amended [Repealed—-See now O.C.G.A. § 21-2-1 et seq.].
Sec. 5-102. - Regular elections; time for holding; City Council districts.
(a)
The Mayor and those members of the City Council who are serving as such on December 31, 2011, and any person elected to fill a vacancy in such office, shall continue to serve as such Mayor or members until the regular expiration of their respective terms of office and upon the election and qualification of their respective successors. On and after January 1, 2012, the governing authority of the City of Americus shall consist of six (6) Councilmembers, all of whom shall be elected from Council districts described in subsection (b) of this section and the Mayor who is elected at large as provided in this Charter.
(b)
For purposes of electing members of the City Council, the City of Americus is divided into six (6) Council districts. One (1) member of the City shall be elected from each such district. The six (6) Council districts shall be and correspond to those six (6) numbered districts described in, attached to, and made a part of this Ordinance as Exhibit "A" and further identified as Plan: AMERCCPROP1-2010 TIGER, Plan Type: Local, Administrator: Americus, User: Shantee.
(c)
When used in such attachment, the terms "tract" and "BG" (Block Group) shall mean and describe the same geographic boundaries as provided in the report of the Bureau of the Census for the United States Decennial Census of 2010 for the State of Georgia. Separate numeric designations in a tract description which are underneath a "BG" heading shall mean and describe individual blocks within a Block Group as provided in the report of the Bureau of the Census for the United States Decennial Census of 2010 for the State of Georgia. Any part of the City of Americus which is not included in any such district described in that attachment shall be included within that district contiguous to such part which contains the least population according to the United Stated Decennial Census of 2010 for the State of Georgia. Any part of the City of Americus which is described in that attachment as being in a particular district shall nevertheless not be included within such district if such part is not contiguous to such district. Such non-contiguous part shall instead be included in that district contiguous to such part which contains the least population according to the United States Decennial Census of 2010 for the State of Georgia.
(d)
The Mayor and members of the City Council shall be elected as provided in this subsection. The Mayor and the members from Council Districts 3, 4, and 5 shall be elected at the general election on the Tuesday next following the first Monday in November, 2013. The Mayor and those first Councilmembers elected thereto from Council Districts 3, 4, and 5 in 2013 shall take office the first day of January immediately following the election and shall serve for initial terms of office which expire December 31, 2017, and upon the election and qualification of their respective successors. The first members from Council Districts 1, 2, and 6 shall be elected at the general election on the Tuesday next following the first Monday in November, 2015. Those Councilmembers elected thereto from Council Districts 1, 2, and 6 in 2015 shall take office the first day of January immediately following that election and shall serve for initial terms of office which expire December 31, 2019, and upon the election and qualification of their respective successors. Those and all future successors to the Mayor and members of the City Council whose terms of office are to expire shall be elected at the time of the municipal general election immediately preceding the expiration of such terms, shall take office the first day of January immediately following that election, and shall serve for terms of office of four (4) years each. The Mayor and members of the City Council shall serve for the terms of office specified therefor in this subsection and until their respective successors are elected and qualified.
(e)
Council Districts 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, and 6, as exist on December 31, 2011, shall continue to be designated as Council Districts 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, and 6, respectively, but as newly described under this Ordinance, and on or after January 1, 2012, such members of the City Council serving from those former Council Districts shall be deemed to be serving from and representing their respective districts as newly described under this Ordinance.
(1993 Ga. Laws (Act. No. 48), page 3839, § 1; 2002 Ga. Laws (Act No. 471), page 3992, § 1; Ord. No. O-11-08-14, 8-18-2011)
Sec. 5-103. - First elections under this Charter.
(a)
The first municipal election under this Charter shall be as provided in section 5-102(1) above, at which the mayor and councilmembers from council posts 3, 4, and 5 will be elected as provided in this Charter. Those offices are currently held as follows:
Mayor: Tom Gailey
Post 3: Paul Mercer
Post 4: Leonard Waitsman
Post 5: Tim Lawson
(b)
The next municipal election shall be as provided in section 5-102(2) above, at which councilmembers from council posts 1, 2, and 6 will be elected. The city councilmembers presently holding such posts are listed as follows:
Post 1: Albert Cooper
Post 2: Lewis Lowe
Post 6: Rusty Reddish
Sec. 5-104. - Special elections; vacancies.
In the event that the office of mayor or councilmember shall become vacant for any cause whatsoever, the city council or those remaining shall order a special election to fill the balance of the unexpired term of such official; provided, however, if such vacancy occurs within six months of the expiration of the term of that office, said office shall remain vacant for the remainder of the term. In all other respects, a special election shall be held and conducted in accordance with chapter 3 of title 21 of the OCGA, the "Georgia Municipal Election Code," as now or hereafter amended [Repealed—See now O.C.G.A. § 21-2-1 et seq.].
Sec. 5-105. - Nonpartisan elections.
Political parties shall not conduct primaries for city offices and all names of candidates for city offices shall be listed without party designation.
Sec. 5-106. - Election by a majority.
The person receiving a majority of the votes cast for any city office shall be elected.
Sec. 5-107. - Filing of notice of candidacy.
Each candidate for the office of mayor or councilmember shall file notice of his or her candidacy in the office of the municipal superintendent at least 42 but not more than 52 days prior to the election. Each candidate for city council shall specify the council district for which he or she is running. (1993 Ga. Laws (Act. No. 48), page 3839, § 2, 2-25-93)
Sec. 5-108. - Designation of post by candidate.
All persons giving notice of candidacy for a city council seat shall designate the post being sought.
Sec. 5-109. - Other provisions.
Except as otherwise provided in this Charter, the city council shall, by ordinance, prescribe such ordinance, rules, and regulations as it deems appropriate to fulfill any options, duties, or responsibilities under chapter 3 of title 21 of the OCGA, the "Georgia Municipal Election Code." [Repealed—See now O.C.G.A. § 21-2-1 et seq.]
CHAPTER 2. - REMOVAL FROM OFFICE

Sec. 5-201. - Occurrence of vacancies.
A vacancy in the office of mayor or councilmember occurs when a duly elected person fails to qualify, or when a person who has been duly elected and qualified either dies, resigns, becomes permanently disabled, or is removed from office as provided in this Charter.
Sec. 5-202. - Removal of mayor and councilmembers for cause.
(a)
The mayor or any councilmember shall be removed from office for any one or more of the following causes:
(1)
Incompetence, misfeasance, or malfeasance in office;
(2)
Conviction in a court of competent jurisdiction or the entering of a plea of guilty or a plea of nolo contendere to a crime involving moral turpitude or a felony;
(3)
Failure at any time to possess all of the qualifications of office as provided by this Charter or by law;
(4)
Abandonment of office or neglect to perform the duties thereof; or
(5)
Failure for any other cause to perform the duties of office as required by this Charter or by state law.
(b)
Removal of a mayor or any councilmember pursuant to subsection (a) of this section shall be accomplished by the vote of five councilmembers, or four councilmembers plus the mayor, after an investigative hearing. In the event an elected official is sought to be removed by the action of the city council, such officer shall be entitled to a written notice specifying the ground or grounds for removal and to a public hearing which shall be held not less than ten days after the service of such written notice. Any elected official sought to be removed from such office as provided in this section shall have the right of appeal from the decision of the city council to the Superior Court of Sumter County. Such appeal shall be governed by the same rules as govern appeals to the superior court from the probate court.
