ARTICLE VI. - FINANCE
CHAPTER 1. - PROPERTY TAXES

Sec. 6-101. - Property tax.
The city council may assess by ordinance, levy, and collect an ad valorem tax on all real and personal property within the corporate limits of the city that is subject to such taxation by the state and county. This tax is for the purpose of raising revenues to defray the costs of operating the city government, of providing governmental services, for the repayment of principal and interest on general obligations, and for any other public purpose as determined by the city council in its discretion.
Sec. 6-102. - Millage rate; due dates; payment methods.
The city council by ordinance shall establish a millage rate for the city property tax, a due date, and the time period within which these taxes must be paid. The city council by ordinance may provide for the payment of these taxes by installments or in one lump sum, as well as authorize the voluntary payment of taxes prior to the time when due.
CHAPTER 2. - OCCUPATION TAXES AND BUSINESS LICENSE FEES

Sec. 6-201. - Occupation and business taxes.
The city council by ordinance shall have the power to levy such occupation or business taxes as are not denied by law. Such taxes may be levied on both individuals and corporations who transact business in this city or who practice or offer to practice any profession or calling within the city to the extent such persons have a constitutionally sufficient nexus to this city to be so taxed. The city council may classify businesses, occupations, professions, or callings for the purpose of such taxation in any way which may be lawful and may compel the payment of such taxes as otherwise provided in this Charter. The city council may by ordinance also levy and provide for additional occupation and business taxes to be levied upon such individuals and corporations which receive or may receive special benefits from authorized activities engaged in by the city.
Sec. 6-202. - License or permit fees.
The city council by ordinance shall have the power to require any individuals or corporations who transact business in this city or who practice or offer to practice any profession or calling within the city to obtain a license or permit for such activity from the city and pay a reasonable fee for such license or permit where such activities are not now regulated by general law in such a way as to preclude city regulation. Such fees may reflect the total cost to the city of regulating the activity or such other elements as the city may deem proper and, if unpaid, shall be collected as provided in this Charter. The city council by ordinance may establish reasonable requirements for obtaining or keeping such licenses as the public health, safety, and welfare necessitate.
Sec. 6-203. - Franchises.
The city council shall have the power to grant franchises for the use of this city's streets and alleys for the purposes of railroads, street railways, telephone companies, electric companies, cable television companies, gas companies, transportation companies, and other similar organizations. The city council shall determine the duration, terms, whether the same shall be exclusive or nonexclusive, and the consideration for such franchises; provided, however, that no franchise shall be granted for a period in excess of 20 years and no franchise shall be granted unless the city receives just and adequate compensation therefor. The city council shall provide for the registration of all franchises with the city clerk in a registration book kept by him. The city council may provide by ordinance for the registration within a reasonable time of all franchises previously granted.
Sec. 6-204. - Service charges.
The city council by ordinance shall have the power to assess and collect fees, charges, and tolls for sewers, sanitary and health services, or any other services provided or made available inside or outside the corporate limits of the city for the total cost to the city of providing or making available such services. If unpaid, such charges shall be collected as otherwise provided in this Charter.
Sec. 6-205. - Special assessments; impact fees.
(a)
The city council by ordinance shall have the power to assess and collect the costs of constructing, reconstructing, widening, or improving any public way, street, sidewalk, parking lot or facility, curbing, gutter, sewers, or other utility mains and appurtenances from the abutting property owners under such terms and conditions as are reasonable. If unpaid, such charges shall be collected in accord with the other provisions of this Charter.
(b)
The city council by ordinance shall have the power to assess and collect development fees or impact fees upon such improvements in such manner and amount as the city council may deem necessary or proper in the exercise of its powers.
Sec. 6-206. - Construction; other taxes.
The city shall be empowered to levy any other tax allowed now or hereafter by law, and the specific mention of any right, power, or authority in this article shall not be construed as limiting in any way the general powers of this city to govern its local affairs.
CHAPTER 3. - COLLECTION OF DELINQUENT TAXES AND FEES

Sec. 6-301. - Collection of delinquent taxes and fees.
The city council by ordinance may provide generally for the collection of delinquent taxes, fees, or other revenue due the city under the terms of this Charter by whatever reasonable means as are not precluded by law. This shall include providing for the dates when the taxes or fees are due, late penalties or interest, issuance and execution of fi. fas., creation and priority of liens, making delinquent taxes and fees personal debts of the persons required to pay the taxes or fees imposed, revoking city licenses for failure to pay any city taxes or fees, and providing for the assignment or transfer of tax executions.
CHAPTER 4. - CITY INDEBTEDNESS

Sec. 6-401. - General obligation bonds.
The city council shall have the power to issue bonds for the purpose of raising revenue to carry out any project, program, or venture authorized under this Charter or the laws of the state. Such bonding authority shall be exercised in accordance with the laws governing bond issuance by municipalities in effect at the time said issue is undertaken.
Sec. 6-402. - Revenue bonds.
Revenue bonds may be issued by the city council as state law now or hereafter provides. Such bonds are to be paid out of any revenue produced by the project, program, or venture for which they were issued.
Sec. 6-403. - Short-term notes.
The city may issue short-term notes as now or hereafter provided by state law.
Sec. 6-404. - Improvement bonds.
(a)
In order to facilitate the financing of any municipal improvements authorized by law, the city may issue bonds of the city in the aggregate amount of assessments for the improvement then unpaid, which bond or bonds and the interest thereon shall in no event become a liability of the city or the mayor and council issuing them.
(b)
These bonds shall mature at a date and bear an interest rate as the council may determine by ordinance, but in no event shall the rate of interest exceed that which the assessments are to bear.
(c)
These bonds shall be signed by the mayor and attested by the city clerk and shall have the impression of the corporate seal of the city thereon and shall be payable at a place designated by ordinance.
(d)
These bonds shall be designated as "improvement bonds," and shall, on the face thereof, recite the nature and location of the improvement for which they have been issued and shall recite that they are payable solely from assessments which have been levied upon the lots and tracts of land abutting upon or being the situs of the improvements.
(e)
These bonds shall be sold at not less than par, and the proceeds thereof applied to the payment of the costs and expense of the improvement for which the bonds were issued, or the bonds, in the amount that shall be necessary for that purpose, may be turned over and delivered to the contractor, in respect to the improvement at par value, in payment of the amount due on the contract, and the portion thereof which shall be necessary to pay other expenses incident to and incurred in providing for the improvements shall be sold or otherwise disposed of as the council by ordinance shall direct.
CHAPTER 5. - FISCAL CONTROL

Sec. 6-501. - Fiscal year.
The city council shall set the fiscal year by ordinance. This fiscal year shall constitute the budget year and the year for financial accounting and reporting of each and every office, department, agency, and activity of the city government.
(H.B. 425, 5-12-2015)
Sec. 6-502. - Preparation of budgets.
The city council shall provide an ordinance on the procedures and requirements for the preparation and execution of an annual budget, which shall include an annual operating budget, a capital improvement program, and a capital budget and may also include requirements as to the scope, content, and form of such budgets and programs of the city.
(H.B. 425, 5-12-2015)
Sec. 6-503. - Submission of operating budget to city council.
On or before a date fixed by the city council but not later than 45 days prior to the beginning of each fiscal year, the city manager shall submit to the city council a proposed budget for the ensuing fiscal year, which budget shall include both an operating budget and a capital budget. The budget shall be accompanied by a message from the city manager containing a statement of the general fiscal policies of the city, the important features of the budget, explanations of major changes recommended for the next fiscal year, a general summary of the budget, and such other comments and information as he or she may deem pertinent. The proposed budget, the budget message, and all supporting documents shall be filed in the office of the city clerk and shall be open to public inspection.
(H.B. 425, 5-12-2015; Ord. No. O-2015-15, 7-23-2015)
Sec. 6-504. - Action by city council on budget.
(a)
The city council may amend the budget proposed by the city manager, except that the budget as finally amended and adopted must provide for all expenditures required by state law or by other provisions of this charter and for all debt service requirements for the ensuing fiscal year and for all capital improvements required for the ensuing fiscal year and the total appropriations from any fund shall not exceed the estimated fund balance, reserves, and revenues.
(b)
The city council by ordinance shall adopt a final budget for the ensuing fiscal year not later than the last day of the current fiscal year. If the city council fails to adopt the budget by this date, the amounts appropriated for the current fiscal year shall be deemed adopted for the ensuing fiscal year on a month-to-month basis, with all items prorated accordingly, until such time as the city council adopts a budget for the ensuing fiscal year. Adoption of the budget shall take the form of an appropriations ordinance setting out the estimated revenues in detail by sources and making appropriations according to fund and by organizational unit, purpose, or activity as set out in the budget preparation ordinance adopted pursuant to Section 6-502 of this charter.
(c)
The amount set out in the adopted budget for each organizational unit shall constitute the annual appropriation for such, and no expenditure shall be made or encumbrance created in excess of the otherwise unencumbered balance of the appropriations or allotments thereof to which it is chargeable. The city council shall not authorize an expenditure for the construction of any building, structure, work, or improvement unless the appropriations for such project are included in the capital improvements budget, except to meet a public emergency as provided in this charter, or where the funds required for such improvement are otherwise provided for in accord with this charter or applicable state laws.
(H.B. 425, 5-12-2015)
Sec. 6-505. - Tax levies.
The city council shall annually levy by ordinance such taxes as are necessary to fund the budget. The taxes and tax rates set by such ordinance shall be such that reasonable estimates of revenues from such levy shall at least be sufficient, together with other budgeted revenues, fund balances, and applicable reserves, to equal the total amount appropriated for each of the several funds set forth in the annual operating budget for defraying the expenses of the general government of this city.
(H.B. 425, 5-12-2015)
Sec. 6-506. - Changes in appropriations.
The city manager may submit amendments to the budget to the city council at any time during the fiscal year, accompanied by his or her recommendations. The city council by ordinance may make changes or amendments in the appropriations contained in the current budget at any regular meeting or special or emergency meeting called for such purpose, but any additional appropriations may be made only from an existing unexpended surplus. Any such amendments to the budget shall become effective only upon adoption by ordinance.
(H.B. 425, 5-12-2015; Ord. No. O-2015-15, 7-23-2015)
Sec. 6-507. - Independent audit.
There shall be an annual independent audit of all city accounts, funds, and financial transactions by a certified public accountant selected by the city council. The audit shall be conducted according to generally accepted accounting principles. Any audit of any funds by the state or federal government may be accepted as satisfying the requirements of this charter. Copies of all audit reports shall be available at printing costs to the public.
(H.B. 425, 5-12-2015)
CHAPTER 6. - PURCHASING AND CONTRACTING AND DISPOSITION OF PROPERTY

Sec. 6-601. - Contracting procedures.
The city council shall prescribe by ordinance the procedures to be followed in the making of contracts which shall bind the city. All contracts, ordinances, and resolutions which shall make or authorize contracts shall be approved as to form by the city attorney. The mayor shall sign all contracts; provided, however, that the city council may authorize the mayor by ordinance to designate another appropriate official to sign any type of contract. The city clerk shall authenticate all contracts. The original of all contracts shall be maintained on file in the office of the city clerk.
Sec. 6-602. - Contracts binding upon city.
In addition to the other provisions of this Charter, no contract with the city shall be binding on the city unless:
(1)
It is in writing;
(2)
It is drawn by or submitted to and reviewed by the city attorney where practical; and
(3)
It is made or authorized by the city council and such approval is entered in the journal of minutes of city council proceedings.
Sec. 6-603. - Centralized purchasing.
The city council shall by ordinance prescribe procedures for all purchases of real and personal property by the city.
Sec. 6-604. - Sale and disposition of property.
(a)
The city council may sell, lease, transfer, and convey any real or personal property owned or held by the city for governmental or other purposes as now or hereafter provided by law.
(b)
The city council may quitclaim any rights it may have in property not needed for public purposes upon report by the city manager and adoption of a resolution, both finding that the property is not needed for public or other purposes and that the interest of the city has no readily ascertainable monetary value.
(c)
Whenever in opening, extending, or widening any street, avenue, alley, or public place of the city a small parcel or tract of land is cut off or separated by such work from a larger tract or boundary of land owned by the city, the city council may authorize the mayor to execute and deliver in the name of the city a deed conveying said cut-off or separated parcel or tract of land to an abutting or adjoining property owner or owners in exchange for rights of way of said street, avenue, alley, or public place when such exchange is deemed to be in the best interest of the city. All deeds and conveyances heretofore and hereafter so executed and delivered shall convey all title and interest the city has in such property, notwithstanding the fact that no public sale after advertisement was or is hereafter made.
(H.B. 425, 5-12-2015; Ord. No. O-2015-15, 7-23-2015)
