ARTICLE I. - INCORPORATION, POWERS, AND BOUNDARIES

Sec. 1-101. - Incorporation; name.
The City of Americus and the inhabitants thereof shall continue to be a body politic and corporate under the name of the City of Americus, hereinafter at times referred to as the "city." The city shall be the legal continuation and successor to the mayor and city council of Americus as heretofore incorporated; shall continue to be vested with all of the property and rights of property which now belong to the city; and shall have perpetual succession.
Sec. 1-102. - General powers and construction.
(a)
The city shall have all the powers, duties, rights, privileges, and immunities vested in the city now or hereafter granted to municipal corporations by the Constitution, by the general laws of the State of Georgia, by this Charter, by special laws applicable to the city which are not prior Charter amendments and by general laws of local application through classification by population. The city shall exercise and enjoy all powers of self-government not specifically prohibited by the Constitution, the general laws, or this Charter, including all powers, functions, rights, privileges, and immunities necessary or desirable to promote or protect the safety, health, peace, security, good order, comfort, convenience, and general welfare of the city and of its inhabitants, and all implied powers necessary to carry into execution all powers granted as fully and completely as if these powers were fully enumerated in this Charter. In addition, the city may sue and be sued; may contract and be contracted with; may acquire and hold any property, real and personal, as may be devised, bequeathed, sold, or in any manner conveyed or dedicated to or otherwise acquired by it and from time to time may hold or invest or sell or dispose of any of its property; and may have a common seal and alter it at will.
(b)
The powers of this city shall be construed liberally in favor of the city. The specific mention or failure to mention particular powers shall not be construed as limiting in any way the powers of the city.
Sec. 1-103. - Examples of powers.
The powers of the city shall include, but shall not be solely limited to, the following:
(1)
Air and water pollution. To regulate the emission of smoke or other exhaust which pollutes the air and to prevent the pollution of natural streams which flow within the corporate limits of the city.
(2)
Animal regulations. To regulate and license or to prohibit the keeping or running at large of animals and fowl and to provide for the impoundment of same if in violation of any ordinance or lawful order; to provide for the disposition by sale, gift, or humane destruction of animals and fowl when not redeemed as provided by ordinance; and to provide punishment for violation of ordinances enacted under this paragraph.
(3)
Appropriations and expenditures. To make appropriations for the support of the government of the city; to authorize the expenditure of money for any purposes authorized by this Charter and for any purpose for which a municipality is authorized by the laws of the State of Georgia; and to provide for the payment of expenses of the city.
(4)
Building regulation. To regulate and to license the erection and construction of buildings and all other structures not inconsistent with general law; to adopt building, housing, plumbing, electrical, gas, and heating and air-conditioning codes; and to regulate all housing and building trades except as otherwise prohibited by general law.
(5)
Business regulation and taxation. To levy and to provide for the collection of license fees and taxes on privileges, occupations, trades, and professions; to license and regulate the same; to levy and provide for additional license fees and taxes on privileges, occupations, trades, and professions which receive or may receive special benefits from authorized activities engaged in by the city; to provide for the manner and method of payment of such licenses and taxes; and to revoke such licenses after due process for failure to pay any city taxes or fees.
(6)
Condemnation. To condemn property, inside or outside the corporate limits of the city, for present or future use and for any corporate purpose deemed necessary by the governing authority, utilizing procedures enumerated in Title 22 of the O.C.G.A. [O.C.G.A. ยง 22-1-1 et seq.] or such other applicable laws as are or may hereafter be enacted.
(7)
Contracts. To enter into contracts and agreements with other governmental entities and with private persons, firms, and corporations.
(8)
Emergencies. To establish procedures for determining and proclaiming that an emergency situation exists inside or outside the city and to make and carry out all reasonable provisions deemed necessary to deal with or meet such an emergency for the protection, safety, health, or well-being of the citizens of the city.
(9)
Fire regulations. To fix and establish fire limits and from time to time extend, enlarge, or restrict the same; to prescribe fire safety regulations, not inconsistent with general law relating to both fire prevention and detection and to fire fighting; and to prescribe penalties and punishment for violations thereof.
(10)
Garbage fees. To levy, fix, assess, and collect a garbage, refuse, and trash collection and disposal and other sanitary service charge, tax, or fee for such services as may be necessary in the operation of the city from all individuals, firms, and corporations residing in or doing business within the city and benefiting from such services; to enforce the payment of such charges, taxes, or fees; and to provide for the manner and method of collecting such service charges.
(11)
General health, safety, and welfare. To define, regulate, and prohibit any act, conduct, or use of property which is detrimental to the health, sanitation, cleanliness, welfare, and safety of the inhabitants of the city and to provide for the enforcement of such standards.
(12)
Gifts. To accept or refuse gifts, donations, bequests, or grants from any source for any purpose related to the powers and duties of the city and the general welfare of its citizens on such terms and conditions as the donor or grantor may impose.
(13)
Health and sanitation. To prescribe standards of health and sanitation and to provide for the enforcement of such standards.
(14)
Jail sentences. To provide that persons given jail sentences in the city's court may work out such sentences in any public works or on the streets, roads, drains, and squares in the city; to provide for the commitment of such persons to any jail; or to provide for the commitment of such persons to any county work camp or county jail by agreement with the appropriate county officials.
(15)
Motor vehicles. To regulate the operation of motor vehicles and exercise control over all traffic, including parking, upon or across the streets, roads, alleys, and walkways of the city.
(16)
Municipal agencies and delegation of power. To create, alter, or abolish departments, boards, offices, commissions, and agencies of the city and to confer upon such agencies the necessary and appropriate authority for carrying out all the powers conferred upon or delegated to the same.
(17)
Municipal debts. To appropriate and borrow money for the payment of debts of the city and to issue bonds for the purpose of raising revenue to carry out any project, program, or venture authorized by this Charter or the laws of the State of Georgia.
(18)
Municipal property ownership. To acquire, dispose of, and hold in trust or otherwise any real, personal, or mixed property, in fee simple or lesser interest, inside or outside the property limits of the city.
(19)
Municipal property protection. To provide for the preservation and protection of property and equipment of the city and the administration and use of same by the public; and to prescribed penalties and punishment for violations thereof.
(20)
Municipal utilities. To acquire, lease, construct, operate, maintain, sell, and dispose of public utilities, including, but not limited to, a system of waterworks, sewers, and drains, sewage disposal, gas works, electric plants, transportation facilities, public airports, cable television, and any other public utility; and to fix the taxes, charges, rates, fares, fees, assessments, regulations, and penalties therefor; and to provide for the withdrawal of service for refusal or failure to pay the same; and to authorize the extension of water, sewerage, and electrical distribution systems, and all necessary appurtenances by which said utilities are distributed, inside and outside the corporate limits of the city; and to provide utility services to persons, firms, and corporations inside and outside the corporate limits of the city as provided by ordinance.
(21)
Nuisances. To define a nuisance and provide for its abatement whether on public or private property.
(22)
Penalties. To provide penalties for violation of any ordinances adopted pursuant to the authority of this Charter and the laws of the State of Georgia.
(23)
Planning and zoning. To provide comprehensive city planning for development by zoning and to provide subdivision regulation and the like as the city council deems necessary and reasonable to ensure a safe, healthy, and esthetically pleasing community.
(24)
Police and fire protection. To exercise the power of arrest through duly appointed police officers and to establish, operate, or contract for a police and a fire-fighting agency.
(25)
Public hazards; removal. To provide for the destruction and removal of any building or other structure which is or may become dangerous or detrimental to the public.
(26)
Public improvements. To provide for the acquisition, construction, building, operation, and maintenance of public ways, parks, playgrounds, recreational facilities, cemeteries, markets and market houses, public buildings, libraries, public housing, airports, hospitals, terminals, docks, parking facilities, or charitable, cultural, educational, recreational, conservation, sport, curative, corrective, detentional, penal, and medical institutions, agencies, and facilities; to provide any other public improvements inside or outside the corporate limits of the city; to regulate the use of public improvements; and, for such purposes, property may be acquired by condemnation under Title 22 of the O.C.G.A. or such other applicable laws as are or may hereafter be enacted.
(27)
Public peace. To provide for the prevention and punishment of drunkenness, riots, and public disturbances.
(28)
Public transportation. To organize and operate such public transportation systems as are deemed beneficial.
(29)
Public utilities and services. To grant franchises or make contracts for public utilities and public services and to prescribe the rates, fares, regulations, and the standards and conditions of service applicable to the service to be provided by the franchise grantee or contractor, insofar as not in conflict with valid regulations of the Public Service Commission.
(30)
Regulation of roadside areas. To prohibit or regulate and control the erection, removal, and maintenance of signs, billboards, trees, shrubs, fences, buildings, and any and all other structures or obstructions upon or adjacent to the rights-of-way of streets and roads or within view thereof, inside or abutting the corporate limits of the city and to prescribe penalties and punishment for violation of such ordinances.
(31)
Retirement. To provide and maintain a retirement plan for officers and employees of the city.
(32)
Roadways. To lay out, open, extend, widen, narrow, establish or change the grade of, abandon or close, construct, pave, curb, gutter, adorn with shade trees, or otherwise improve, maintain, repair, clean, prevent erosion of, and light the roads, alleys, and walkways within the corporate limits of the city; and to grant franchises and rights-of-way throughout the streets and roads and over the bridges and viaducts for the use of public utilities; and to require real estate owners to repair and maintain in a safe condition the sidewalks adjoining their lots or lands and to impose penalties for failure to do so.
(33)
Sewer fees. To levy a fee, charge, or sewer tax as necessary to assure the acquiring, constructing, equipping, operating, maintaining, and extending of a sewage disposal plant and sewerage system; to levy on those to whom sewers and sewerage systems are made available a sewer service fee, charge, or tax for the availability or use of the sewers; to provide for the manner and method of collecting such service charges and for enforcing payment of the same; and to charge, impose, and collect a sewer connection fee or fees to those connected with the system.
(34)
Solid waste disposal. To provide for the collection and disposal of garbage, rubbish, and refuse and to regulate the collection and disposal of garbage, rubbish, and refuse by others; and to provide for the separate collection of glass, tin, aluminum, cardboard, paper, and other recyclable materials and provide for the sale of such items.
(35)
Special areas of public regulation. To regulate or prohibit junk dealers, pawn shops, the manufacture, sale, or transportation of intoxicating liquors, and the use and sale of firearms; to regulate the transportation, storage, and use of combustible, explosive, and inflammable materials, the use of lighting and heating equipment, and any other business or situation which may be dangerous to persons or property; to regulate and control the conduct of peddlers and itinerant traders, theatrical performances, exhibitions, and shows of any kind, by taxation or otherwise; and to license, tax, regulate, or prohibit professional fortunetelling, palmistry, adult bookstores, and massage parlors.
(36)
Special assessments. To levy and provide for the collection of special assessments to cover the costs for any public improvement.
(36.1)
Stormwater utility. To acquire, lease, construct, operate, and maintain stormwater facilities and systems; to fix the taxes, charges, rates, fares, fees, assessments, regulations, and penalties in connection with the installation, operation, and maintenance of stormwater management services, facilities and improvements; to authorize the extension of stormwater facilities and all necessary appurtenances in connection therewith, inside the corporate limits of the city; to provide stormwater utility and stormwater management services to parcels, persons, firms, and corporations inside the corporate limits of the city as provided by ordinance; to establish, amend, and revise from time to time stormwater utility customer classes; to provide for stormwater utility user fee charges, exemptions, and credits; to establish the stormwater utility enterprise fund; to define the stormwater utility scope of responsibility; to obtain loans, grants, donations as authorized by law in connection with acquisition, lease, construction, operation, and maintenance of a stormwater utility and its facilities; and to undertake any and all other necessary or appropriate actions and activities related to the establishment, operation, and maintenance of a stormwater utility within the corporate limits of the city.
(37)
Taxes; ad valorem. To levy and provide for the assessment, valuation, revaluation, and collection of taxes on all property subject to taxation.
(38)
Taxes; other. To levy and collect such other taxes as may be allowed now or in the future by law.
(39)
Taxicabs. To regulate and license vehicles operated for hire in the city; to limit the number of such vehicles; to require the operators thereof to be licensed; to require public liability insurance on such vehicles in the amounts to be prescribed by ordinance; and to regulate the parking of such vehicles.
(40)
Urban redevelopment. To organize and operate an urban redevelopment program.
(41)
Other powers. To exercise and enjoy all other powers, functions, rights, privileges, and immunities necessary or desirable to promote or protect the safety, health, security, good order, comfort, convenience, or general welfare of the city and its inhabitants; to exercise all implied powers necessary to carry into execution all powers granted in this Charter as fully and completely as if such powers were fully stated in this Charter; and to exercise all powers now or in the future authorized to be exercised by other municipal governments under other laws of the State of Georgia; and no listing of particular powers in this Charter shall be held to be exclusive of others, nor restrictive of general words and phrases granting powers, but shall be held to be in addition to such powers unless expressly prohibited to municipalities under the Constitution or applicable laws of the State of Georgia.
(Ord. No. O-10-04-07, 4-22-2010)
Sec. 1-104. - Exercise of powers.
All powers, functions, rights, privileges, and immunities of the city, its officers, agencies, or employees shall be carried into execution as provided by this Charter. If this Charter makes no provision, such shall be carried into execution as provided by ordinance or as provided by pertinent laws of the State of Georgia.
Sec. 1-105. - Sovereign immunity.
Nothing in this Charter shall be construed or deemed to waive in any manner sovereign immunity under such terms and conditions as may be now or hereafter authorized by the Constitution of the State of Georgia and general state law.
Sec. 1-106. - Corporate boundaries; official map.
(a)
The boundaries of the city shall be those existing on the effective date of the adoption of this Charter with such alterations as may be made from time to time in the manner provided by law. The boundaries of the city at all times shall be shown on a map, a written description, or any combination thereof, to be retained permanently in the office of the clerk of the city and to be designated, as the case may be: "Official Map (or Description) of the Corporate Limits of the City of Americus, Georgia." Photographic, typed, or other copies of such map or description certified by the clerk of the city shall be admitted as evidence in all courts and shall have the same force and effect as the original map or description.
(b)
The city council may provide for the redrawing of any such map by ordinance to reflect lawful changes in the corporate boundaries. A redrawn map shall supersede for all purposes the entire map or maps which it is designated to replace.
