APPENDIX B - SUBDIVISION REGULATIONS[1]
An Ordinance Setting Forth Regulations, Specifications, and Procedures Governing Platting of Land Within the Corporate Limits of the City of Valdosta Into Subdivisions; Requiring and Regulating the Preparation and Presentation of Subdivision Plats for Such Purposes; Establishing Minimum Improvements; Defining Terms; and Providing Penalties for Violation Thereof.
Be It Ordained by the Mayor and Council of the City of Valdosta under the authority of the Constitution of the State of Georgia hereby ordains and enacts into law all sections and parts of these regulations.
Footnotes:
--- (1) ---
Editor's note— Printed in this appendix is the city's subdivisions ordinance, as adopted by the mayor and council on November 4, 1964. Amendments to the subdivisions ordinance are indicated by parenthetical history notes following amended provisions. The absence of a history note indicates that the provision remains unchanged from the original ordinance. Obvious misspellings and punctuation errors have been corrected without notation. For stylistic purposes, headings and catchlines have been made uniform and the same system of capitalization, citation to state statutes, and expression of numbers in text as appears in the Code of Ordinances has been used. Additions made for clarity are indicated by brackets.
Cross reference— Any ordinance dedicating or accepting any subdivision plat or adopting any subdivision regulation saved from repeal, § 1-6(11); buildings and building regulations, ch. 18; environment, ch. 42; floods, ch. 50; historical preservation, ch. 58; landscape development, ch. 62; streets, sidewalks and public places, ch. 86; zoning ordinance, app. A; airport zoning ordinance, app. C.
State Law reference— Approval by planning commission or governing authority on plat of subdivision required for filing or recording in superior court clerk's office, O.C.G.A. § 15-6-67(d); Georgia Land Sales Act, O.C.G.A. § 44-3-1 et seq.; local restrictions on condominiums, O.C.G.A. § 44-3-114; Georgia Condominium Act, O.C.G.A. § 44-3-70 et seq.

SECTION 1. - SHORT TITLE, PURPOSE, AND JURISDICTION

Sec. 1-1. - Short Title.
These regulations shall be known and may be cited as the "Subdivision Regulations for the City of Valdosta."
Sec. 1-2. - Jurisdiction.
These regulations shall govern all subdivision of land into two or more parcels within the corporate limits of the City of Valdosta.
Sec. 1-3. - Purpose.
The purpose of these regulations shall be to promote the public health, safety, morals, and general welfare requiring the harmonious, orderly, and progressive development of land within the City of Valdosta. In furtherance of this purpose, regulation of the subdivision of land is authorized for the following purposes:
a.
To encourage the development of an economically sound and stable economy.
b.
To assure the provision of required streets, utilities, and other facilities and services to new land development.
c.
To assure the adequate provision of safe and convenient traffic access and circulation both vehicular and pedestrian in new land developments.
d.
To assure the provision of needed public open spaces and building sites and new land developments through the dedication or reservation of land for recreation, educational, and other public purposes.
e.
To assure, in general, the wise development of new areas in harmony with the development plan of the community.
SECTION 2. - DEFINITIONS

Sec. 2-1. - Definitions.
For the purpose of this ordinance, the following words, terms, phrases, and their derivations shall have the meaning given in this section.
Words used in the present tense include the future. Words used in the singular include the plural, and words used in the plural include the singular.
The word "shall" is always mandatory while the word "may" is discretionary.
The planning commission's interpretation shall be final as to the meaning of any definition, statement, requirement, symbol, and/or abbreviation used in connection with these regulations and/or application thereof.
Sec. 2-2. - Building Line.
A line beyond which no foundation wall or part of the structure of any building shall project, with the exception of roof overhang and the subsurface projection of footings; provided, however, that such overhang and footings do not encroach upon the adjacent property or right-of-way.
Sec. 2-3. - City.
The City of Valdosta, Georgia.
Sec. 2-4. - City Council.
The mayor and councilmen of the City of Valdosta, Georgia.
Sec. 2-5. - City Engineer.
The official to whom the responsibilities normally associated with this title have been delegated.
Sec. 2-6. - City Specifications.
The current edition of printed specification and standard drawings governing construction within the City of Valdosta as issued by the city engineer. (Available on request.)
Sec. 2-7. - Commissioner of Health.
The Lowndes County Commissioner of Health, the Lowndes County Health Department and/or the State of Georgia Department of Health. The words "commissioner of health" are used in these regulations to denote the fact that all matters pertaining to health regulations shall be directed to that official or his staff.
Sec. 2-8. - Crosswalk.
A right-of-way within a block dedicated to public use for pedestrian use only and is so designed as to provide access to adjacent streets or lots.
Sec. 2-9. - Cul-de-sac.
A street having only one end open for access to another street and the other end being terminated by a turnaround as specified in these regulations.
Sec. 2-10. - Development.
The act, process or state of erecting buildings, structures or making improvements.
Sec. 2-11. - Development Plan.
The development plan for the City of Valdosta, Georgia, which may consist of the thoroughfare plan, general land use plan, street and road classification plan, and other maps, data, and descriptive matter for the physical development of the city or any portions thereof, including any amendments, extensions, or additions thereto.
Sec. 2-12. - Director.
The planning director of the planning commission.
Sec. 2-13. - Easement.
A grant by the owner of land for the use of such land by others including the public for a specific purpose or purposes.
Sec. 2-14. - Lots.
An undivided portion of land which is designed as a distinct and separate tract and identified by a tract number, lot number, or symbol on an approved subdivision plat properly recorded, and which is or may in the future be offered for sale, conveyance, transfer or improvement.
Sec. 2-15. - Lot Width.
The distance between the side lot lines, measured at the minimum front yard setback line as established in the zoning ordinance and measured parallel to the street right-of-way line.
Sec. 2-16. - Planning Commission.
The Greater Lowndes County Planning Commission.
Sec. 2-17. - Planned Residential Development (PRD).
A subdivision planned to include open space and a variety of housing types which would also permit other land uses, including multifamily structures, churches, schools and commercial activities.
Sec. 2-18. - Right-of-Way.
A portion of land being used or which in the future will be used as a street, road, thoroughfare, crosswalk, pipeway, drainage canal, and/or other similar uses and designed by means of right-of-way lines.
Sec. 2-19. - Single-Family Attached Building.
A building containing two or more single-family attached dwelling units joined at one or more points by one or more party walls or common facilities not including the walls of an enclosed courtyard or similar area.
Sec. 2-20. - Subdivider.
Any person, firm, corporation, association or partnership or any agent therefor who undertakes or proposes to undertake the subdivision of land so as to constitute a subdivision of land so as to constitute a subdivision as herein defined.
Sec. 2-21. - Subdivision.
The division of a tract or parcel of land into two or more lots, building sites or other divisions; the combination of a number of lots or parcels to form a lesser number; the division of land involving the dedication of a new street, easement or other public way for the purpose, whether immediate or future, of sale, transference, legacy, development or other purposes; includes resubdivision; where appropriate relates to the process of subdividing of the land or area subdivided. For plats not included within this definition, see section 6-7, Exempt Plat Process. Exemptions are as follows:
1.
The public acquisition of land for use in widening existing streets.
2.
The transference of part of one lot or tract in an existing subdivision to an adjacent lot or tract in the same subdivision providing that the transference does not reduce any lot or tract to an area or width less than the zoning minimum of the area and does not increase the total number of lots.
Sec. 2-22. - Tax Assessor.
Lowndes County Board of Tax Assessors.
Sec. 2-23. - Tract.
A portion of land with definite and ascertainable limits or boundaries.
Sec. 2-24. - Utility.
Any community service available to the public by means of an overhead or underground distribution or collection system such as electricity, telephone, water, gas, cable television, and sewerage disposal.
Sec. 2-25. - Zoning Regulations.
The zoning regulations enacted by the mayor and council of the City of Valdosta, Georgia [appendix A].
SECTION 3. - GENERAL

Sec. 3-1. - Zoning Regulations.
No subdivision shall be accepted for review which does not conform with the zoning regulations applicable to the land for which it is proposed.
Sec. 3-2. - Approval by Individual Agencies.
No subdivision plat shall be recorded with the clerk of the superior court of Lowndes County, Georgia, without said plat having first been submitted to and approved by the planning commission and such approval entered in writing on the plat by the secretary of the planning commission. The planning commission shall not approve any subdivision plat without said plat having first been reviewed and approved by the city engineer and the commissioner of health to the extent that each has jurisdiction.
Sec. 3-3. - Subdivisions Requiring No New Street, Water or Sewer Facilities.
All subdivisions which do not involve the platting, construction, or opening of new streets, water or sewer facilities shall be accepted by the planning commission in the form of a final plat provided that the plat shall comply with these regulations in all respects.
Sec. 3-4. - Thoroughfare Plan.
The present and future functions of the streets and roads of the City of Valdosta are classified on a map entitled "The Official Thoroughfare Plan of the City of Valdosta" and certified by the mayor of Valdosta.
SECTION 4. - MINIMUM DESIGN STANDARDS—CONVENTIONAL SUBDIVISIONS

Sec. 4-1. - Density.
The overall tract of a proposed subdivision (planned residential development, PRD, excepted) to include all acreage within its boundaries, will not be designed to include a greater average number of lots per acre than listed below:
4-1.1. R-15—2.9 lots per acre.
4-1.2. R-10 and DR-10—4.3 lots per acre.
4-1.3. R-6—7.2 lots per acre.
Multifamily—12 lots per acre.
R-6S—7.2 lots per acre.
Exceptions to the minimum number of lots per acre may be made by the planning commission if evidence is presented by the subdivider which warrants a larger number of lots per acre.
Sec. 4-2. - Blocks.
4-2.1. Nonresidential: Blocks for other than residential use shall be of such length and width as may be suitable for their prospective use, including adequate provision for off-street parking and maneuvering space.
4-2.2. Residential: The length of residential blocks shall not exceed 1,500 feet measured from interior street right-of-way lines nor be less than 400 feet. Blocks of more than 1,500 feet may be permitted by the planning commission if in its opinion natural or manmade barriers such as streams, railroads or previously developed subdivisions require blocks of greater size. The depth of residential blocks shall be sufficient to allow two tiers of lots, unless prohibited by natural or manmade barriers, or unless one tier backs onto a line of another person's property, and provided that this shall not prevent the inclusion of blocks of greater width including super blocks. Super blocks may contain public or joint use areas such as parks and playgrounds and shall be covered by adequate maintenance agreements if not dedicated and accepted for public maintenance.
4-2.3. Crosswalks: Rights-of-way for pedestrian crosswalks shall be provided when in the opinion of the planning commission crosswalks are necessary for direct pedestrian access to schools, shopping centers, and parks. The crosswalk right-of-way shall not be less than 20 feet wide.
Sec. 4-3. - Easements.
4-3.1. Utility: Unless underground utilities are provided, utility easements for overhead services shall be located at the rear or side of and adjacent to the lot lines and shall be a minimum width of 20 feet. Where possible, water lines shall be located outside the curbline on the west and south sides of streets; sewer and gas lines shall be on the east and north sides. Wherever public utility easements are planned adjacent to the subdivision tract boundary or phase they shall be platted within said subdivision or phase thereof.
Water and sewer lines outside of street rights-of-way shall follow side and rear property lines where possible and a minimum easement width of 20 feet shall be provided unless it is determined by the city engineer that a greater width is necessary for maintenance or construction.
4-3.2. Drainage: Drainage easements shall be provided as required by the city engineer after review of the construction plans. Drainage easements outside of street rights-of-way shall follow side and rear property lines where possible and shall have a minimum easement width of 20 feet unless it is determined by the city engineer that a greater width is necessary for maintenance and construction.
Sec. 4-4. - Lots.
4-4.1. Minimum Lot Size: Minimum lot size shall be as prescribed in the zoning regulations for the City of Valdosta [appendix A].
4-4.2. Minimum Lot Elevation: The lot area contained within and contiguous to the building walls and for a minimum distance of ten feet measured from all sides of said building shall have a minimum elevation of two feet above the maximum flood stage of streams or canals in the particular area being developed based on acceptable engineering procedure and approved by the city engineer, that said minimum elevation shall be subject to approval by the commissioner of health. In the event no drainage easement is provided to the side or rear of lots, the minimum floor elevation shall be at least six inches above the finished curb grade and said elevation shall be noted on the final plat.
Sec. 4-5. - Building Lines.
4-5.1. Setback Lines: All building setback lines shall be as specified in the zoning regulations for the City of Valdosta [appendix A].
4-5.2. City Limits: Lots shall not be divided by corporate boundary lines.
4-5.3. Corner Lots: Corner lots shall be of such size and dimension that will permit the location of buildings so as to conform with the building setback lines, as prescribed in the zoning regulations. A minimum of 4,000 square feet, exclusive of required setback areas, will be provided for corner lots. If a lot is irregular, additional square feet may be required.
4-5.4. Double Frontage: Lots having street frontage both to the front and rear shall be prohibited except where it is essential to provide separation of residential development from railroad or major and secondary arterial rights-of-way. Where a railroad or major arterial abuts or runs through any portion of the subdivision, the subdivision plan shall provide that each lot backing on said railroad or arterial right-of-way shall have an average minimum depth of 170 feet with neither side yard line being less than 120 feet, which shall include a 20-foot planted buffer strip separating the lots from the right-of-way.
4-5.5. Commercial Use Buffer Zones: When a portion of the subdivision is to be devoted to commercial purposes such as a shopping center, and when it adjoins residential lots, or when a portion of a proposed subdivision adjoins an area zoned commercial or industrial, a buffer zone shall be not less than 20 feet in width and said buffer zone shall be landscaped with hedges or closely planted small trees (to be planted at the time of development) as to provide visual screening. No building or portion thereof may be constructed in said buffer zone, and protective covenants shall be provided to insure this restriction. Said buffer zone shall be labeled as such on the subdivision plat.
Sec. 4-6. - Streets.
The street and road system of any subdivision shall give due consideration to the official thoroughfare plan for the City of Valdosta.
4-6.1. Access: Every lot of every subdivision shall directly abut a public street which shall be maintained by the city. Where the subdivision does not abut a public street, the subdivider shall provide a public street from the subdivision to the nearest public street.
4-6.2. Alignment and Continuation: Streets within the subdivision shall be so arranged as to provide for the alignment and continuation of or projection of existing public streets, where feasible.
4-6.3. Culs-de-sac: Permanent culs-de-sac shall not be longer than 500 feet from the nearest street right-of-way line with which it intersects to the center of its diameter. Culs-de-sac shall terminate in a circular turnaround having a right-of-way of not less than 100 feet. Paving within the turnaround shall have an outside diameter of not less than 80 feet.
4-6.4. Dead-End Streets: Permanent dead-end streets and alleys shall be prohibited.
4-6.5. Intersections: The centerlines of no more than two streets shall intersect at any one point. No street shall intersect another at less than 80 degrees and shall as nearly as possible intersect at 90 degrees. A tangent no less than 100 feet shall be placed between a curved street and the nearest right-of-way line of the street with which it intersects.
4-6.6. Curb Radius: The curb radius at street intersections shall be no less than 20 feet except on major arterial streets where Georgia Highway Department standards shall prevail.
4-6.7. Curved Streets: The inner curb radius may not be less than 350 feet for major arterial streets, and 100 feet for collector and residential streets. Centerline tangents between reverse curves shall be not less than 200 feet for secondary streets and 100 feet for collector and residential streets.
4-6.8. Right-of-Way Extension: Where, in the opinion of the planning commission, it is essential to provide for the extension of a street to adjacent property, such street right-of-way shall be extended by dedication, and improved, to the boundary of such property.
4-6.9. Street Jogs: Street jogs at intersections shall be not less than 150 feet between centerline offsets.
4-6.10. Street Names: The building official, South Georgia Regional Development Center, maintains an up-to-date listing of all city streets. The subdivider will refer to this listing when including the proposed name or number of all streets on the subdivision plat. A name once used should not be repeated elsewhere within the city even with different suffix, i.e., Mary Street - Mary Circle - Mary Way. The names of all new streets within the subdivision shall be subject to the review of the planning commission.
4-6.11. Street Right-of-Way and Pavement Width: Street right-of-way shall be measured between lot lines and shall be prescribed in this section. The pavement width shall be measured from curb lip to curb lip and shall be as prescribed in the development plan as follows:
EXPAND
Street Classification Minimum
Right-of-Way
(in Feet) Minimum
Pavement Width
(in Feet)
Highways 100 Varies
Major (with curb and gutter) 80 64
Secondary (with curb and gutter) 80 44
Collector (with curb and gutter) 60 36
Residential (with curb and gutter) 50 26
  If the width of pavement is 24 feet, then no parking shall be allowed on the street. If the pavement width is 28 feet, then parking will be allowed on one side of the street. If the pavement width is 32 feet, then parking can be allowed on both sides of the street.
4-6.12. Additional Right-of-Way: If the subdivision boundary lies adjacent to the right-of-way line of an existing platted street of less than minimum right-of-way width, a minimum of one-half the required extra width shall be dedicated.
4-6.13. Provisions for Public Use: In subdividing land, due consideration shall be given to suitable sites for schools, parks, playgrounds, and other common areas for public use. The acquisition of such land shall rest with the proper authority.
SECTION 5. - PLANNED RESIDENTIAL DEVELOPMENT

Sec. 5-1. - Planned Development.
1.
Residential. A planned residential development consisting of two or more buildings to be constructed on a tract of land not subdivided into customary streets and lots shall be allowed in districts PRD-15, PRD-10, and PRD-6 in accordance with the following requirements:
A.
Master Plan.
A preliminary master plan for the planned development shall be submitted to the planning commission at the time of the request for rezoning to PRD zoning classification. The preliminary master plan shall be drawn to approximate scale and shall show the overall boundaries of the development, all lots and their location, proposed streets and various uses within the development.
Upon approval of the rezoning requests and the preliminary master plan, a final master plan shall be submitted to the planning commission for review and approval. After the plan is formerly presented to the planning commission, the planning commission shall have a minimum of 30 days to review and finally approve said plan. Each master plan shall be prepared by an architect, landscape architect, engineer or land surveyor, whose state registration is current and valid. His seal or professional initials shall be affixed to the plans submitted. Each master plan shall be drawn to an appropriate scale and in accordance with the approved preliminary master plan and shall show the following:
1)
Name. Name or names of the proposed development. Name or names and addresses of the owners and designers of the site of the master plan and his seal.
2)
Date. Date, appropriate north arrow and scale.
3)
Boundary. The boundary line of the tract to be developed drawn accurately to scale and with accurate lineal and angular dimensions.
4)
Location Map. A map to an appropriate scale showing the location of the development.
5)
Contours. Contours with a minimum vertical interval of one foot referred to sea level datum shall be provided for both existing and proposed topography.
6)
Existing Property Lines. The location of existing and platted property lines, streets, buildings, watercourses, railroads, bridges, water mains, sewers, culverts, drain pipes, and public utility easements, both on the land to be developed and on that portion of the land immediately adjoining which abuts the land to be developed and any other pertinent characteristics of the land; the name of adjoining subdivision or the names of record owners of adjoining parcels of unsubdivided land and the zoning of the property.
7)
Proposed Improvements. The name, where appropriate, and locations and dimensions of proposed streets, alleys, sidewalks, easements, and specific use areas, parking, recreational areas and facilities, yards and other open spaces.
8)
Utility and Drainage Plans. Utility and drainage plans shall be provided including all information required by city and county health, public works, water, sewer and sanitation departments to determine the water, sewer and sanitation disposal and storm drainage improvements will be made and located in accordance with City of Valdosta's requirements.
9)
Buffer Areas. Location, dimensions and treatment of all required buffer, landscaped or planted areas, including fences.
10)
Design Plans. The plans, including exact location, design, and floor plans, of all dwellings to be constructed within the development.
11)
Proposed Protective or Restrictive Covenants. A preliminary outline of proposed protective covenants or restrictive covenants including provisions for the organization or financing of a homeowners association where appropriate.
12)
Other Information. Other information required by the planning commission in order to assure compliance with the provisions of this ordinance.
B.
Development Standards. A planned residential development shall conform to the following restrictions and development standards:
1)
Minimum Area. The minimum tract of land eligible for development as a residential planned development shall be one acre.
2)
Density. A planned residential development shall be allowed only in PRD districts with the following maximum density for each district:
EXPAND
Development, Five Acres or More Development, Less Than Five Acres
PRD-15—5 units per acre PRD-15—2.9 units per acre
PRD-10—8 units per acre PRD-10—4.3 units per acre
PRD-6—10 units per acre PRD-6—7.3 units per acre
  3)
Recordation of Plat. The approved plat of said development shall be recorded in accordance with the provisions of the City of Valdosta Subdivision Regulations [this appendix].
4)
Minimum Floor Area. The minimum gross square feet of heated area in each of PRD district shall be as follows:
PRD-15—1,200 square feet
PRD-10—1,000 square feet
PRD-6—800 square feet
5)
Maximum Area and Dimensions Requirements. All residential buildings and structures shall not consume more than 40 percent of the total site capable of development, including setbacks. Streets and paving including parking lots shall not exceed 30 percent of the total area. Green area, landscaped open space shall be a minimum of 30 percent of the total area.
6)
Location and Restrictions on Parking Lots. All parking in PRD zones shall be rear yard only; no parking shall be allowed in the front or side yard, unless otherwise approved by mayor/council. Where paved parking lots are installed the following requirements shall be complied with in regard to location from structures and public streets:
The minimum distance between parking lot and any dwelling structure shall be five feet, exclusive of sidewalks which must be maintained as a green area or landscaped wooded area.
Except where abutting a public street, the minimum distance between a paved parking lot and a boundary line of said planned development shall be 12 feet which shall be a green area.
7)
Setbacks. In all PRD districts the following setbacks shall apply to exterior boundary lines and exterior lot lines and be uniformly measured from the center line of the public street or lot lines where applicable:
Front yard—Minimum 55 feet.
Side yard—Minimum ten feet.
Rear yard—Minimum 30 feet.
There is no minimum setback for interior lot lines.
8)
Development and Construction Time Limitation. If minimal construction has not been completed within 12 months after approval of the final master plan by the planning commission, approval for the plans is hereby rescinded; after which date all development or plans for development on said property shall be subject to resubmission to the planning commission in accordance with this ordinance or the ordinance in effect at the time of submission. Minimal construction as used herein shall mean installation of water and sewer facilities, paving, building foundation and structure walls of the first phase of the development.
SECTION 6. - APPROVAL OF SUBDIVISIONS
Subdivisions shall be reviewed and approved in three stages as follows [in this section].

Sec. 6-1. - Preliminary Plat.
6-1.1. Purpose: The purpose of the preliminary plat is to safeguard the subdivider from unnecessary loss of time and expense in preparation of a subdivision plat which does not conform with the specifications of the subdivision regulations ordinance [this appendix]. The preliminary plat requires only approximate accuracy of scale and dimension. Public agencies having jurisdiction will review the preliminary plat regarding matters within their jurisdiction. During the review process the subdivider or his agent may be called upon for consultation.
6-1.2. Future Tract Plan: In cases where a subdivision is to be developed in stages with additional plats being filed with the planning commission at a later date(s), the filing of the initial plat will be accompanied by a future tract plan, a reasonably accurate plat in sketch form of the entire tract which will show the future street system for the entire tract.
6-1.3. Filing. Any person desiring to subdivide land shall file with the planning commission five copies of the preliminary plat which will be accompanied by a letter of application. The plat shall be prepared in accordance with these regulations and with applicable county and/or city specifications by a registered engineer, surveyor, and/or architect who is licensed under the laws of the State of Georgia. The preliminary plat shall be deemed filed with the planning commission when it is filed with the director. At the time of filing, a certificate of filing shall be furnished by the director to include the time and date of filing. The director shall have authority to reject the preliminary plat, if after study, he finds that it does not comply with these regulations. If rejected, the director shall provide the subdivider with a written statement specifying all the respects in which the plat fails to comply. The subdivider may appeal to the planning commission from such rejection.
6-1.4. Approval by the Planning Commission: Approval or disapproval of the preliminary or preliminary final plat by the planning commission shall be accomplished within 30 days after the plat is filed with the planning commission. If after 30 days the planning commission has failed to act, the preliminary shall be deemed approved and on demand, a copy shall be signed for transmission to the appropriate governing bodies; provided, that the subdivider may waive in writing this requirement and consent to an extension of such period. If the planning commission disapproves the preliminary plat, the reasons therefore shall be stated in the resolution disapproving the same and the subdivider shall be so informed.
Sec. 6-2. - Construction Drawings.
6-2.1. No work shall commence prior to approval of the complete set of construction plans. The construction drawings shall consist of the following:
a.
Preliminary final plat. The preliminary final plat shall conform to the approved preliminary plat. If desired by the subdivider, the final plat may constitute only that portion of the preliminary plat that he proposes to record at that time provided that such portion conforms with all requirements of these regulations.
b.
Plans and profiles and typical road sections for streets.
c.
Location, calculations and profiles for all drainage structures.
d.
Detailed plans of all intersections showing drainage at intersections at scale one inch equals 50 feet or more detailed.
e.
Water and sanitary sewer plans including both on-site and off-site lines that are to be constructed.
f.
Site grading and clearing. Plans with soil erosion control structures and devices.
g.
Denote any 100-year floodplain or statement that property does not lie within the 100-year floodplain.
6-2.2. The subdivider shall submit two sets of the construction drawings and the supplementary data to the city engineer and allow seven days for study of the plans. The action and/or recommendations shall be noted on the plans and returned to the submitter. After changes are made by the submitter these shall become final. Two sets of construction plans shall be required to be stamped and signed to approve the conditions set before any work begins. Additional sets of plans may be submitted to be stamped for the developer's use. One copy of the approved construction plans must be at the job site whenever work is in progress.
6-2.3. Upon approval of the construction plans by the city engineer, the subdivider shall submit two copies of the plat to each of the other utility companies including the power company, the gas company, the telephone company, and cable television. These companies shall mark their proposed facilities on the plat and return one copy to the subdivider for preparation of a utility drawing.
6-2.4. The following permits shall be taken out before each phase of work commences. These are available at no cost from the office of the city engineer upon submittal of the appropriate bonds as described in section 9.
a.
Grading permit (prior to any grading or clearing).
b.
Storm drainage, if separate from grading.
c.
Sanitary sewer.
d.
Water.
e.
Curbing and paving.
f.
Telephone, power, gas, cable television, etc.
Sec. 6-3. - The Final Plat.
6-3.1. Conformance: The final plat shall conform with the approved preliminary plat. If desired by the subdivider, the final plat may constitute only that portion of the preliminary plat he proposes to record and develop at that time; provided that such portion conforms with all requirements of these regulations.
6-3.2. Filing: Filing of the final plat with the planning commission shall include the following:
a.
A letter of application containing the name and address of a person to whom notice of hearing may be sent.
b.
A complete list of deviations, if any, from that which appeared on the approved preliminary plat.
c.
A certified copy of all private covenants or deed restrictions, maintenance agreements for common areas and other related documents pertaining to land within the subdivision.
d.
A copy of the agreement between the subdivider and the city, if any, regarding the arrangements for providing the necessary water and sewer facilities.
e.
Two original reproducible mylars and five blackline prints of the final plat.
The final plat shall be deemed filed with the planning commission when it is filed with the director. At the time of filing, a certificate of filing shall be furnished the applicant which will include the date of filing. The final plat shall be prepared in accordance with these regulations and applicable county and/or city requirements by a registered engineer, surveyor, and/or architect who is licensed under the laws of the State of Georgia. The director shall have the authority to reject the final plat if, after study, he finds that it does not conform with the approved preliminary plat of these regulations. If rejected, the director shall provide the subdivider with a written statement specifying all the respects in which the plat does not conform. Filing the final plat shall be accomplished at least 15 days prior to the regular planning commission meeting at which it is to be considered.
6-3.3. Approval by Individual Agencies: No final plat shall be approved by the planning commission unless it is approved by the commissioner of health, city engineer, and the assignment of parcel numbers by the Lowndes County Board of Tax Assessors. Said agencies shall approve, with or without modification, or disapprove the final plat to the extent to which each has jurisdiction.
6-3.4. Approval by Planning Commission: Approval or disapproval of the final plat by the planning commission shall be accomplished within 30 days after the plat is filed with the planning commission. If after 30 days the planning commission has failed to act, the final plat shall be deemed approved and on demand a copy shall be signed for transmission to the appropriate governing body; provided, that the subdivider may waive in writing this requirement and consent to an extension of such period. If the final plat is disapproved, the reasons therefor shall be stated in the resolution disapproving the same and the subdivider shall be so informed. The approval of a final plat shall not be deemed to constitute an acceptance by the public, the county or the city of any street or other ground shown upon the plat.
a.
No plat shall be acted upon by the planning commission without affording a hearing thereon. Notice of the time and place of such hearing shall be sent by registered or certified mail to the subdivider not less than five days before the date of such hearing.
Sec. 6-4. - Recording, Revising and Removal of Plats.
6-4.1. Recording: Upon satisfactory compliance with these regulations and after approval by the planning commission, the secretary of the planning commission shall present the final plat to the clerk of superior court, Lowndes County, Georgia, to be recorded and shall distribute copies of the final plat in accordance with the distribution schedule set forth in these regulations. The director shall provide the subdivider with the subdivision map book number and page number in which the subdivision has been recorded. If, however, the subdivider requests the planning commission to delay having the plat recorded, the subdivider shall authorize in writing the planning commission to have the approved final plat recorded within 12 months from the date of the final plat approval otherwise the approval of the final plat shall be deemed to have been withdrawn.
6-4.2. Revision to a Recorded Plat: Proposed revisions which change in any way the street and/or utility layout shall be submitted as a preliminary plat in accordance with section 6-1 of these regulations. Proposed revisions which do not change in any way the street and/or utility layout shall be submitted as a final plat in accordance with section 6-2 of these regulations. In addition, a revision to a recorded plat shall show the name, phase (if any), date of the recorded subdivision plat being revised and the exact citation with regard to the county land records and the book and page number wherein said plat is recorded.
6-4.3. Removal: After a subdivision has been recorded, the subdivider may petition the city council for permission to remove the subdivision plat from the land records of Lowndes County. The city council may permit such removal providing that no lot in the subdivision has been sold. Upon giving its permission for such removal, the city council shall release the bonds and/or cash posted by the subdivider pursuant to the provisions of section 9.
Sec. 6-5. - Deposit and Reproduction.
Upon approval of the final plat by the planning commission, the subdivider shall deposit with the planning commission an amount equal to the cost of recording the final plat with the clerk of superior court, Lowndes County, Georgia; and an amount equal to the cost of securing the required number of reproducibles and prints (see section 6-6, "Distribution Schedule") or authorize the planning commission to have the reproducibles and prints made at an establishment where the subdivider maintains an account.
Sec. 6-6. - Distribution Schedule.
EXPAND
County Records Original linen or plastic reproducible and one print
City Engineer Three prints (two file and one building inspector) and one reproducible
City Tax Assessor One print
County Tax Assessor One print
County Health Department One print
Police Department One print
Water and Sewer Department One print
Board of Education One print
Fire Department One print
Planning Commission One reproducible
—Drafting-Addressing One print
—Drafting One print
Total One original linen or plastic reproducible
Two reproducibles
13 prints
  Sec. 6-7. - Exempt Plat Process.
Any plat submitted for recording that meets conditions for exempt status per section 2-21 (Subdivision) are required to be certified by the planning director or representative. All plats exempt from the standard review process must be assigned a parcel number by the Lowndes County Board of Tax Assessors if a new parcel is being created. The tax assessors will review and assign a map and parcel number which must be shown on the plat prior to recording. All exempt plats must be submitted on a mylar, plus five prints. The mylar will be retained by the planning director. Resurveys of existing parcels which do not involve a map parcel change must be verified by the planning director and the tax assessor's office. Existing map parcel numbers must be on the plat at recording. Any plat submitted through the normal subdivision process shall be reviewed by the tax assessor's office and assigned a map and parcel number.
SECTION 7. - THE SUBDIVISION PLAT

Sec. 7-1. - The Preliminary Plat.
The preliminary plat may be a penciled sketch of approximate accuracy and of a legible scale, made directly on a print of a boundary survey. The plat will include the following information:
7-1.1. Title and Location: The plat will show the name of the proposed subdivision, its location by county and city, the address, name and registration number of the surveyor preparing the plat and the date of the plat. A north arrow will be included with a notation referencing the bearings to magnetic north, astronomical north or grid north.
7-1.2. General Layout: The plat shall show information as to the proposed street layout and widths, layout of lots with a notation as to the minimum size and width of lots and any proposed open space. Any lands to be dedicated will be identified.
7-1.3. Topography: The plat shall show existing contour lines dashed and any proposed contour lines solid, both sets of lines to be at two-foot intervals, mean sea level (M.S.L.). Prominent drainage features such as lakes, depressions, streams, etc., which could affect the design of the subdivision, shall be shown. Engineering data showing the high water elevation and how it was established shall be submitted with the plat. Denote any 100-year floodplain or that property does not lie within the 100-year floodplain.
7-1.4. Existing Features: The plat shall show the locations and names of the existing and platted property lines, streets (and its right-of-way), railroads (and its right-of-way), public and private rights-of-way, sanitary sewer (and size), water mains (and size), bridges, culverts, storm drainage (and size), easements, parks and other public open spaces, land lot and land district lines, city limit lines and names of adjoining property owners or subdivisions.
7-1.5. Location Map: The preliminary plat shall include a location map of sufficient clarity so that the location of the subdivision can be readily determined.
7-1.6. Completeness: If any of the above facts are omitted or misrepresented, the director may refuse to file the plat for review by the planning commission and shall return the plat to the subdivider to be completed or revised.
Sec. 7-2. - The Final Plat.
7-2.1. Sheet Design: The final plat shall conform to the items listed under the preliminary plat (subsections 7-1.1, 7-1.4, 7-1.5) and the requirements thereof, as set forth in these regulations and shall be drawn in black India ink on one or more sheets of linen tracing cloth or mylar film measuring 18 inches by 24 inches. The minimum line width shall be 0.013 inch and the minimum letter and/or character height shall be 0.090 inch. When two or more sheets are used, a key map, either in addition to or a modification of section 7-1.5, shall be shown on each sheet. There shall be a two-inch margin on the left end of the plat and a one-half-inch margin on the remaining three sides. A revision to a recorded plat shall be drawn in black India ink on the same type cloth or film as mentioned above. The final plat shall be drawn on the scale (stated and graphical) of one inch equals 100 feet.
7-2.2. Surveyor Certificate: The following certificate shall be entered on the face of the plat as shown in figure 1. Placement of this certificate may vary as necessary:
I certify that all measurements are correct and were prepared from an actual survey of the property made under my supervision; the field data upon which this plat is based has a closure precision of one foot in _____ feet and an angular error of _____ per angle point, and was adjusted using ___________ rule; the plat has been calculated for closure and is found to be accurate within one foot in _____ feet; monument and pin locations are correctly shown by the symbols _____ and the pins are ___________ (type of metallic material and length).
Signed _____ (Seal)
Date ________
EXPAND
_____
_____ . Surveyor, Georgia Registration No.
  7-2.3. Owner Certificate: The following certificate shall be entered on the face of the plat as shown in figure 1. Placement of this certificate may vary as necessary:
We, the undersigned owner(s) and/or mortgagee(s) of the ___________ Subdivision, hereby offer to dedicate and/or reserve for public use the rights-of-way, easements and other ground as shown on this plat.
EXPAND
Owner Date Mortgagee Date
_____ _____ _____ _____
_____ _____ _____ _____
  7-2.4. Approvals: The following spaces shall be provided (as shown in Figure 1) in the form listed below for approval by all agencies having jurisdiction. Placement on plat may vary:
Approved by Department of Public Health, Lowndes County, Georgia.
EXPAND
Date _____ Signed _____
Health Department Representative
  Approved by City Engineer, Valdosta, Georgia
EXPAND
Date _____ Signed _____
City Engineer
  Approved by the Greater Lowndes County Planning Commission
EXPAND
Date _____ Signed _____
Planning Director
  7-2.5. Surveying Data: The final plat shall contain the location, bearing and length of every street line, lot line and boundary line whether curved or straight. A note will be made on the plat as to whether curved dimensions are arc or chord distances. Easement lines (and width), land lot and land district lines will be shown. All dimensions shall be shown in feet and decimals to the nearest 1/100 of a foot, and all angles shall be shown to the nearest second. The error of closure shall not exceed one in 10,000.
7-2.6. Monuments: The final plat shall show the accurate location, material and description of all monuments (as stated in section 7-2.2). A permanent master bench mark shall be established (subject to the approval of the city engineer) within or adjacent to the site by transfer of levels, not less than third order accuracy, from the nearest approved bench mark of known mean sea level (M.S.L.) elevation showing its location on the final plat and recording its elevation on the final plat to the nearest 1/100 of a foot.
7-2.7. Easements: In addition to the requirements for the preliminary plat as set forth in section 7-1.4 of these regulations, the final plat will show the location and width of all temporary construction easements (as required by standard engineering practice), public utility easements and drainage easements where required.
7-2.8. Construction Drawings: At such time as the final plat is filed for review with the director, the subdivider shall submit construction drawings to the city engineer for review and approval. Construction drawings shall conform to city specifications.
SECTION 8. - MINIMUM IMPROVEMENTS

Sec. 8-1. - General.
The subdivider shall provide public improvements as required by these regulations and by applicable city specification and requirements.
8-1.1. The design of all minimum improvements shall be under the direction of an engineer registered in the State of Georgia and all plans shall bear his seal.
8-1.2. A certificate of approval from the county health department shall accompany all water and sewer plans.
Sec. 8-2. - Curbs and Gutter.
The subdivider shall install curb and gutter and proper drainage on all streets.
Sec. 8-3. - Monuments/Pins.
The subdivider shall provide, through the licensed surveyor, the setting of all reinforced concrete monuments and pins. The reinforced concrete monuments shall be four inches in diameter or square, 30 inches long with a flat top. The top of each monument shall be set flush with the ground. Said monuments shall be set within each block of the subdivision and shall be located along the longest interior straight away; a minimum of four per block shall be installed as shown on the approved plat. Pins, a minimum of 15 inches long and one-half inch in diameter (metallic material type to be listed on plat per section 7-2.2) shall be placed along the exterior boundary and interior lot intersection except where concrete monuments are to be located, on each street corner, points of curvature in each street at all points where the street lines intersect the exterior boundary of the subdivision, and where such corners lie within a stream meander (in which case reference pins shall be placed on the bank of the stream). The pin shall be set a minimum of two inches under the ground. The top of the concrete monument shall contain a metal plate or metal rod which shall be scored in such a manner that will properly and accurately identify the location.
Sec. 8-4. - Water Supply and Sanitary Sewage.
8-4.1. Every lot of a proposed subdivision shall be supplied with adequate water and sanitary facilities which shall require the approval of the commissioner of health. Where existing water and sewer mains are in the street, but no services to the proposed lots, the subdivider shall have the services installed. Where public water and sanitary sewerage is available through extensions, the subdivider shall assure that every lot of the subdivision shall be provided with said public facilities in accordance with applicable city specifications.
8-4.2. Minimum Improvements:
Standard fire hydrants of a type specified by the City of Valdosta in the construction specifications shall be installed as a part of the water distribution system within a subdivision (existing or new) for single-family dwellings. A fire hydrant shall be located at each intersection and additional hydrant or hydrants installed where the distance between intersections exceed 500 feet. In no case shall hydrants be spaced greater than 500 feet and shall have a flow of 750 g.p.m. (gallons per minutes).
In light commercial, apartments, and multifamily dwelling districts, fire hydrants shall be installed so that the distance from fire hydrants to the driveway entrance nearest the front of the building shall not exceed 250 feet, with a total distance not to exceed 500 feet to the extreme back of the building by way of driveways. Hydrants shall have a flow of not less than 750 g.p.m. (gallons per minute) in the following zoning districts: CC, R-15, R-10, R-6, R-6S, R-P, OP, PRD-15, PRD-10, PRD-6. An option, provided automatic sprinklers are installed according to N.F.P.A. regulations, the spacing of hydrants may be increased to 350 feet to the driveway entrance nearest the front of the building, provided the total distance does not exceed 700 feet to the extreme back of the building by way of driveways.
In manufacturing, heavy commercial, industrial and any facility which handles or uses flammable or hazardous materials, hydrants shall be installed within 300 feet to the midpoint of the structure and equally spaced thereafter, not to exceed 300 feet between hydrants and the extreme rear of the building. The distance shall be measured along the line traveled by the fire truck. In the following zoning districts, hydrants shall have a flow capacity of not less than 1,000 g.p.m. (gallons per minutes); CH, M-1, M-2, an option provided automatic sprinklers are installed according to N.F.P.A. requirements, the spacing of hydrants may be increased from 300 feet to 500 feet.
Distance between fire hydrants shall be as specified unless fire department operations would otherwise allow increased spacing. Actual location of fire hydrants shall be the responsibility of the fire chief or his representative.
8-4.3. The entire cost of extending water and sewer lines and their associated services within subdivision shall be borne by the developer.
Sec. 8-5. - Sidewalks.
a.
When any parcel of land within the corporate limits of the city abutting existing public streets is developed with new construction, or over half of an existing structure is remodeled or renovated, the owner or developer shall install a four-foot-wide sidewalk along the entire frontage of the said parcel. Said sidewalk to be installed within the city right-of-way in accordance with plans and specifications approved by the city engineer. Compliance with this section shall not be required for single-family residential lots of record prior to the date of adoption of this section.
b.
In new subdivisions where the developer or owner is installing public streets, sidewalks shall be installed at the time of construction of residence dwellings or other structure. Said sidewalks shall be installed within the city right-of-way in accordance with the requirements set forth in subsection (a) hereof. On residential streets, sidewalk installations shall be required only on the northern right-of-way of east-west residential streets and only on the eastern right-of-way of north-south streets. Installation shall be required on both the sides of collector or higher classified roads.
c.
No certificate of occupancy shall be granted if the provisions of this section have not been complied with and construction of the sidewalks have not been completed.
Sec. 8-6. - Streets.
The subdivider shall provide improved rights-of-way in accordance with these regulations and applicable city specifications.
Sec. 8-7. - Stormwater Drainage.
The subdivider shall provide adequate stormwater drainage in accordance with these regulations and applicable city specifications. All storm drainage will be piped except where calculations show a 42-inch pipe, or larger, is required in which case an open ditch will be permitted. Where drainage conditions dictate, open ditches shall be paved. The subdivider shall also provide for adequate drainage of springs or other ground water drainage.
Sec. 8-8. - Utilities.
The installation of utilities shall be as follows:
8-8.1. Communication Distribution Systems: All communication distribution systems installed solely for the purpose of extending communications service within a development and within the property limits of such development shall be placed underground except that this requirement may be waived by the planning commission in cases where undergrounding is not economically or technically feasible, see section 8-8.5 below. Incidental communication terminal boxes may be placed above ground.
8-8.2. Electric Power Distribution Systems: All electric distribution systems of 25,000 volts or less installed solely for the purpose of extending electric service to a development and within the property limits of such development shall be placed underground except that this requirement may be waived by the planning commission in cases where undergrounding is not economically or technically feasible, see section 8-8.5 below.
8-8.3. Easements: Developers shall allocate necessary easements with future maintenance access.
8-8.4. Location of Underground Installations: The plans submitted to the city engineer will set forth the anticipated location of all underground installations.
8-8.5. Feasibility Criteria: The following criteria will be used to determine whether or not underground installation is feasible. When installation is determined to be not feasible for either economic or technical reasons, the planning commission will authorize overhead installation.
a.
Communications Distribution Systems:
Economic Feasibility—Undergrounding of electric facilities shall be deemed to be feasible if the cost to the utility is reasonably competitive to aerial construction.
Technical Feasibility—In the absence of a showing that terrain, soil conditions, and other factors prevent proper installation and/or operation of underground facilities, underground facilities, undergrounding shall be deemed technically feasible.
b.
Electric Power Distribution Systems:
Economic Feasibility—Undergrounding of electric facilities shall be deemed to be feasible if the charge levied by the utility on the developer, pursuant to a uniform policy of the utility or policy established by order of the Georgia Public Service Commission, is equal to or less than 25 percent of the cost borne by the utility in establishing such service.
Technical Feasibility—In the absence of a showing that terrain, soil conditions, or other factors preventing proper installation and/or operation of undergrounding shall be deemed technically feasible.
Sec. 8-9. - Street Lighting.
The general standard of residential street lighting for Valdosta, Georgia, is as follows.
8-9.1. Overhead Electrical Distribution: Residential lighting will be provided at intersections, dead-end streets or courts with a maximum spacing not to exceed 500 feet for straight streets, provided spacing shall be reduced as conditions indicate for curved streets or irregular contours so as to provide adequate lighting. Luminaries are to be 28-foot mounted on existing utility distribution poles and of an approved type mercury unit of approximately 7000 lumen.
8-9.2. Underground Electrical Distribution: Residential lighting will be provided at intersections, dead-ends, or courts with a maximum spacing of 400 feet for straight streets, provided spacing shall be reduced as conditions indicate for curved streets or irregular contours so as to provide adequate lighting. Luminaries shall be top mounted on 16 feet (approximate) ornamental metal poles of an approved type mercury unit of approximately 7000 lumen.
8-9.3. Cost of Installation:
In order to partially defray the cost of installation of street lighting, the developer shall be required to pay a lump sum fee to the City of Valdosta for each street light required under the provisions of this ordinance. The fees for streetlights will be as follows: Where underground distribution is used, the cost per light shall be the cost as per the contribution-in-aid-of-construction of the utility company; where overhead distribution is used, there shall be no cost.
Before the minimum improvements are accepted by the city, a check payable to the City of Valdosta must be furnished for the total cost of the streetlights as determined above and as described in the streetlight layout plan.
8-9.4. Actions Prior to Construction: In order that the expense outlined herein may be ascertained and understood prior to commencement of construction, the developer or his engineer will confer with the city engineer and mark on the plans the approximate location for each fixture.
8-9.5. Location of Underground Installations: The plans submitted to the city engineer will set forth the exact location of all underground installations.
Sec. 8-10. - Installation of Improvements.
No final grading, paving, construction of sidewalks or installation of any other utility shall be permitted until the preliminary final plat of the subdivision has been approved by the planning commission.
Sec. 8-11. - Completion of Improvements.
Within two years from the date of recording of a final plat, all public improvements required by these regulations and other applicable laws and regulations shall be completely constructed and installed within the area covered by the final plat, unless the planning commission shall recommend to the city that an extension of time is required.
Sec. 8-12. - Building Permit.
No permit for the construction of any building on any lot of a proposed subdivision shall be issued unless the plat of the proposed subdivision has been recorded in the office of the clerk of superior court of Lowndes County, Georgia, and unless the minimum site improvements, including all utilities as prescribed in this ordinance, have been made and such improvements have been inspected and approved by the city engineer.
8-12.1. Building permits shall be issued for part of a subdivision prior to the completion of the improvements in the entire subdivision, provided that the city engineer shall approve the improvements in said part if it is determined that it will be completely served by the improvements as if it were a separate subdivision.
SECTION 9. - BONDING REQUIREMENTS

Sec. 9-1. - Bonding Requirements.
To assure the construction and installation of public sanitary and storm sewers, public water facilities, and street improvements the subdivider shall deliver to the city the following:
9-1.1. Cash in reserve or a corporate bond or bonds in such aggregate amount as is estimated by the city engineer to be the total cost of the construction and the responsibility of the subdivider. When utilities are to be installed by the city, satisfactory evidence of agreement must be furnished. A contractors performance bond made jointly to the city and the subdivider will suffice. Cash in reserve shall be deposited with the city clerk.
Sec. 9-2. - Conditions Thereof.
9-2.1. Bonds posted or cash deposited pursuant to section 9-1 shall run to the city and provide that the subdivider, his heirs, successors, and assigns, and their agents and servants will comply with all applicable terms, will faithfully perform and complete the work of constructing and installing said facilities or improvements in accordance with these regulations and that the subdivider will save the city from any unnecessary expense incurred through the failure of the subdivider, his heirs, successors or assigns, or their agents or servants, to complete the work of said construction and installation as required by these regulations, and from any damage growing out of negligence in performing or failing to perform said construction and installation.
9-2.2. If a bond is offered, it shall be executed by a surety or guaranty company qualified to transact business in the State of Georgia and shall state that all work will be performed in accordance with the City of Valdosta Subdivision Regulations [this appendix] and applicable city specifications and standards. If cash is offered, it shall be deposited with the city clerk, who shall give an official receipt therefor, receipting the amount and purposes of said deposit and that the deposit has been made in compliance with and subject to the provisions of these regulations.
Sec. 9-3. - Duration and Release.
Bonds and/or cash posted pursuant to these regulations shall be released or returned, as the case may be, at such time as the facilities guaranteed thereby have been installed and accepted.
Sec. 9-4. - Default.
If the construction or installation of any improvements of facilities for which a bond or cash is posted or deposited is not completed within three months after substantial completion of any building or structures which said improvements or facilities are designed to serve, or within two years after the date of recording of the final plat, whichever is sooner or if said construction or installation is not in accordance with the applicable specifications and requirements, the city may proceed to construct, install, or modify said improvements or facilities in accordance with the applicable specifications and requirements, and in the case of a corporate bond, the obligors on the bonds shall be liable for the expense incurred thereby, or in the case of a cash deposit, the city shall use as much of said cash as is necessary to so construct or install said improvements or facilities. To the extent that any portion of a cash deposit is not required or used by the city, said excess cash shall be repaid to the person making the deposits upon acceptance of the improvements or facilities. The default provisions of this section 9-4 shall not apply when the governing body acts to permit the subdivider to remove his subdivision from the land records of Lowndes County in accordance with the provisions of these regulations.
Sec. 9-5. - Miscellaneous.
9-5.1. One or more bonds or cash deposits of any combination thereof shall be held to be in compliance with this section 9 so long as the total is equal to the total required; provided, however, that no bond shall be released or cash deposit repaid for a lesser or smaller portion of the construction or installation work that is required by these regulations and/or other city specifications and requirements to be installed or constructed as a unit.
9-5.2. If subsequent to the posting of a bond or the deposit of cash under these regulations, it can be established that the amount thereof is more than required because subsequent estimates by the city establish that the work can be constructed or installed for a lesser amount than the amount of the bond posted or cash deposited hereunder, the bond or cash so posted or deposited may be released or repaid proportionately.
SECTION 10. - ACCEPTANCE AND GUARANTEE OF COMPLETED MINIMUM IMPROVEMENTS

Sec. 10-1. - Completion.
At such time as any or all improvements are completed, the subdivider shall notify the city in writing accurately identifying the improvements covered.
Sec. 10-2. - Acceptance.
Upon notification of completion of minimum improvements, the city shall within 30 days after such notice accept or reject, in writing the completed improvements stating the deficiencies if any.
10-2.1. Facilities shall not be accepted unless they conform to these regulations and applicable city specifications.
Sec. 10-3. - Guarantee.
The subdivider shall guarantee to the city, for a period of one year after completion and acceptance of all improvements, all materials and workmanship going into such improvements. The subdivider shall post bond with the city, conditional upon the faithful performance of such guaranty. In lieu of furnishing the subdivider's bond, the subdivider may assign to the city, on approval, contractors' guaranty and bond, effective after all improvements have been accepted by the city or, where certain improvements were done by the subdivider, a certified cashiers check made payable to the city for at least 100 percent of the improvements. The cost of the improvements shall be determined by the city. Developers need to have liability equal to the amount called for on city bonds, including workmen's compensation.
SECTION 11. - VIOLATION AND PENALTIES

Sec. 11-1. - Violations.
11-1.1. It shall be unlawful to convey or improve property by the construction of buildings on lots of any land subdivision which has not been approved and recorded as provided in these regulations, except those parcels recorded prior to the effective date of these regulations.
11-1.2. It shall be unlawful to record a subdivision plat, or once recorded, to make any changes thereon whatsoever which have not been approved by the planning commission and the mayor and council in accordance with the provisions of these requirements.
11-1.3. Each Day's Violation a Separate Offense: Each and every day's violation of any provision of this ordinance shall constitute a separate offense.
Sec. 11-2. - Penalties.
Any person or persons, firm or corporation or association of persons who shall divide and offer for sale any real estate in violation of the terms or provisions of this ordinance shall, upon conviction therefor in the recorder's court, be punished as provided by section 1-11, chapter I of the city Code.
SECTION 12. - LEGAL STATUS

Sec. 12-1. - Effect of Invalidity of Part of Ordinance.
Should any section or provision of this ordinance be decided by the courts to be unconstitutional or invalid, such decision shall not affect the validity of this ordinance as a whole or any part thereof other than the part so decided to be unconstitutional or invalid.
Sec. 12-2. - Conflict With Other Laws.
All ordinances or parts of ordinances in conflict herewith are hereby repealed.
Sec. 12-3. - Amendment.
The city council shall have the authority to amend these regulations after a public hearing thereon. Notice of the time and place of such public hearing shall be published in a newspaper of general circulation in Valdosta at least 15 days prior to such meeting.
Sec. 12-4. - Variances.
In cases of undue hardship under this ordinance, any property owner may petition the planning commission for a variance and where the planning commission concurs it will prepare and send to the city council a recommendation for a variance when considered necessary and equitable. In case the planning commission fails to concur, the property owner may appeal to the mayor and council for relief. All variance requests will require a public hearing in the same manner as an amendment.
EXPAND
November 4, 1964
Date of Adoption
/s/ _____
_____
Richard M. Stewart, Mayor
City of Valdosta
ATTEST:
/s/ _____
City Clerk
