SECTION 4. - ZONING DISTRICTS

4-1. - Establishment of Districts.
In order that the purposes of this ordinance as defined in Section 1 may be accomplished, there are hereby established within the City of Valdosta, Georgia, the zoning districts identified as follows:
E-R Environmental Resource. The purpose of this district is to protect the natural resources of the City of Valdosta and provide for appropriate recreational and institutional uses oriented towards these natural resources. (Adopted by Valdosta Mayor/Council 12-9-04, P.C. File # VA-2004-56.)
R-E Estate Residential. The purpose of this district is to provide single-family detached residential areas with minimum lot sizes of one acre.
R-25 Single-Family Residential. The purpose of this district is to provide single-family detached residential areas with minimum lot sizes of 25,000 square feet.
R-15 Single-Family Residential. The purpose of this district is to provide single-family detached residential areas with minimum lot sizes of 15,000 square feet.
R-10 Single-Family Residential. The purpose of this district is to provide single-family detached residential area with minimum lot sizes of 10,000 square feet.
DR-10 Two-Family Residential. The purpose of this district is to provide areas for one- and two-family residential uses with minimum lot sizes of 10,000 square feet for single-family residences and 13,000 square feet for duplexes.
R-6 Multi-Family Residential. The purpose of this district is to provide orderly development of high density residential areas for one, two, and multi-family dwellings, said areas being protected from the encroachment of those uses which are incompatible to a desirable residential environment.
R-6S Single-Family Residential. The purpose of this section is to provide single-family detached residential areas with minimum lot size of 6,000 square feet. These areas being protected from uses which are incompatible to a desirable single-family residential environment.
R-H Historic Residential. The purpose of this district shall be to protect and preserve historic residential neighborhoods within the Historic District.
R-P Residential Professional. The purpose of this district shall be to create and provide areas in which residential, professional, educational and institutional uses not normally involving the sale of merchandise can be compatibly mixed while maintaining a healthy living environment for the residents of the district.
O-P Office Professional District. The purpose of this district shall be to create and provide areas in which residential, professional, educational and institutional uses not normally involving the sale of merchandise can be compatibly mixed while maintaining a healthy living environment for the residents of the district.
C-N Neighborhood Commercial. The purpose of this district is to provide for and to protect areas that are convenient to and will serve immediately adjacent residential neighborhoods.
C-C Community Commercial. The purpose of this district shall be to provide and protect convenient areas for community shopping facilities consisting of a wide variety of sales and services.
C-H Highway Commercial. The purpose of this district shall be to provide for and encourage the proper grouping and development of roadside uses which include a wide variety of sales and services that will best accommodate the needs of the city and the traveling public in order to reduce highway traffic congestion, traffic hazards, and blight along the public streets of the city.
C-D Downtown Commercial. The purpose of this district shall be to enhance and protect shopping facilities in the central business district of the city. To be considered for this district, properties must be located within the official boundaries of the Central Valdosta Development Authority set forth in the 1974 amendment to the Georgia constitution, which created said authority. The official boundaries of the Central Valdosta Development Authority are as follows: "The Central Valdosta Area shall consist of that area bounded on the north by Magnolia Street, on the east by Lee Street, on the south by Branch Street and on the west by Toombs Street. Said area shall include all properties abutting on the north side of Magnolia Street, the east side of Lee Street, the south side of Branch Street and the west side of Toombs Street within the area described." (Adopted by Valdosta Mayor/Council 7-6-06, P.C. File # VA-2006-37.)
M-1 Manufacturing. The purpose of this district shall be to provide and protect areas for those industrial uses which do not create excessive noise, odor, smoke, dust, and which do not possess other objectionable characteristics which might be detrimental to surrounding neighborhoods, or to the other uses permitted in the district.
M-2 Manufacturing. The purpose of this district shall be to provide and protect areas for those industrial uses which cannot comply with the regulations of the M-1 district.
PRD Planned Residential District. The PRD district is intended to allow flexible site planning and building arrangements for both single- and multi-family residential development under a unified plan so that innovative land planning methods may be utilized which fosters natural resource conservation and neighborhood cohesiveness as well as neo-traditional developments. (Adopted by Valdosta Mayor and Council 5-6-04, P.C. File # VA-2004-20.)
PCD Planned Commercial District. The PCD district is intended to allow flexible site planning and building arrangements for business and commercial developments under a unified plan so that innovative land planning methods may be utilized which foster natural resource conservation and reduce traffic congestion. (Adopted by Valdosta Mayor and Council 5-6-04, P.C. File # VA-2004-20.)
PMD Planned Mixed Use District. The PMD district is intended to allow flexible site planning and building arrangements for commercial, office and residential uses under a unified plan which fosters natural resource conservation and reduces congestion. (Adopted by Valdosta Mayor and Council 5-6-04, P.C. File # VA-2004-20.)
C-A Adult Commercial. The purpose of this district shall be to provide a reasonable location within the community for the development of adult-oriented businesses including adult entertainment establishments.
4-2. - Zoning and Street and Road Classification and Major Thoroughfare Plan, Valdosta, Georgia, Maps.
The boundaries of each zoning district are shown on the Official Zoning Map as defined by this ordinance. Said map shall be maintained by the Director of the Planning Commission, certified by the Zoning Administrator, and shall be kept on file in the offices of both the Planning Commission and the Zoning Administrator. Said map is hereby made a part of this ordinance.
Accurate copies of the "Street and Road Classification and Major Thoroughfare Plan, Valdosta, Georgia" shall be on file in the office of the Zoning Administrator at all times. Said map shall accurately show all map amendments made in accordance with the provisions of this ordinance, and the date when said amendments became effective. It shall be the duty of the Zoning Administrator to see to it that the "Street and Road Classification and Major Thoroughfare Plan, Valdosta, Georgia", displayed in his/her office is kept up-to-date and accurately shows all amendments.
4-3. - Interpretation of Zoning District Boundaries.
When uncertainty exists with respect to the location of boundaries of any zoning district as shown on the "Zoning Map of the City of Valdosta," the following rules shall apply:
4-3.1. Unless otherwise specifically indicated, where district boundaries are indicated on the zoning map as approximately following the centerline of a street, highway, railroad right-of-way line, stream bed or river bed; such centerlines shall be construed to be such district boundaries.
4-3.2. Boundaries indicated as approximately following platted lot lines shall be construed as following such lot lines.
4-3.3. Where district boundaries are indicated on the zoning map as approximately following the corporate limit line of the City of Valdosta, then such corporate limit lines shall be construed to be such district boundaries.
4-3.4. Where district boundaries are indicated on the zoning map as being set back from a street, road, highway, railroad, stream, or river, and parallel thereto, then such district boundaries unless otherwise specifically indicated, shall be construed as being at the scaled distance from the centerline of such street, road, highway, railroad, stream, or river and as being parallel thereto.
4-4. - Overlay Districts.
Overlay Districts shall be defined as: special purpose zoning classification used to supplement, but not change the regulations of the current zoning districts (called the "underlying district") in an effort to protect and promote public/private investment. More stringent controls generally apply within the overlay district than would normally be required in the underlying districts. (Section 4-4 in its entirety was amended and adopted by Valdosta Mayor/Council on 12-10-02, P.C. File # VA-2002-45.)
4-4.1. Inner Perimeter Road Overlay District.
4-4.1.1. Description. The Inner Perimeter Road (IPR) Overlay District shall be defined as the area extending 400 feet in depth from the outer most edge of the existing right-of-way of Inner Perimeter Road. The IPR Overlay District applies to all lands within the legal jurisdiction of the City of Valdosta.
4-4.1.2. Purpose and Intent. The purpose of the IPR overlay district is to provide for a superior environmental along a major transportation corridor through the application of an overlay district. The overlay district regulations are intended to supplement the regulations of the underlying districts and to provide for harmony and compatibility of development over the length of the corridor.
The district is established to protect the public investment in a major highway and ensure that this can continue to serve its primary function of moving volumes of traffic safely. Provisions of the IPR overlay district are intended to expedite the free flow of traffic and reduce the hazards arising from unnecessary points of ingress and egress and cluttered roadside development.
The overlay district is intended to enhance the value of adjacent lands by preserving land, extending the useful life of the highway, avoiding land uses that conflict with the roadside and the surrounding area and reducing the risks of creating blighted areas. Insuring the attractiveness of roadside uses will contribute to and enhance trade, tourism, capital investment and the general welfare.
4-4.1.3. Lot Width. The lot width for properties having direct or indirect access to Inner Perimeter Road will be determined by Section 5-2 (Development Standards) of this ordinance.
4-4.1.4. Traffic Circulation and Access. Within the IPR Overlay District there shall be two classifications known as IPR-1 and IPR-2.
IPR-1: This classification will be used as an overlay district to regulate the portions of Inner Perimeter Road that are considered "rural" in nature and maintain a set maximum speed limit at 55 miles per hour. Uses in this district will follow all applicable development standards according to the underlying district and have the following provisions:
Median Cuts: Median cuts will be permitted as one for every one-quarter mile or 1,320 feet. Establishing the location of the median cuts will be done on a first come, first serve basis.
Curb Cuts: Curb Cuts will be permitted no closer than one for every 440 feet. Like median cuts, establishing the location of the curb cuts will be done on a first come, first serve basis.
IPR-2: This classification will be used as an overlay district to regulate the portions of Inner Perimeter Road that are considered "urban" in nature and maintain a set maximum speed limit of 45 miles per hour. Uses in this district will follow all applicable development standards according to the underlying district and have the following provisions:
Median Cuts: Median cuts will be permitted as one for every one-eighth mile or 660 feet. Establishing the location of the median cuts will be done on a first come, first serve basis.
Curb Cuts: Curb cuts will be permitted no closer than one for every 220 feet or as required by the Georgia Department of Transportation. Like median cuts, establishing the location of the curb cuts will be done on a first come, first serve basis.
Once a section of Inner Perimeter Road is designated as being "urban" in nature, a third lane will be added in each direction of travel as deemed an appropriate by the Georgia Department of Transportation. This third lane will be added on the inside of the existing lanes and be taken from the existing median. Subsequently, in the areas of three lanes, the median will become raised and a controlled left turn lane will be incorporated.
Along with the third lane, a deceleration/acceleration lane will be constructed. This lane will be placed in the existing right-of-way on the outsides of the existing lanes of traffic. The purpose of these deceleration/acceleration lanes will be to allow access to properties along the Inner Perimeter Road Corridor.
Unless a pre-existing hardship is present, a minimum 24-foot wide connectivity easement will be required for all properties sharing a common curb cut. The purpose of this easement will be for inter-connectivity sharing of curb cut access among properties and two-way traffic flow between properties.
Circulation drives shall interconnect all lot access points with all vehicle parking, loading, servicing, and like areas and structures, thereby creating an on-site circulation network which, together with any service drives abutting the lot, will provide a safe and convenient means for lot servicing and fire protection. Where applicable, the following scale will be used to determine connectivity:
1)
Less than 500 feet of road frontage - connectivity on both adjoining properties.
2)
Greater than or equal to 500 feet and less than 1,000 feet of road frontage - connectivity on at least one adjoining property and connectivity to all adjoining lots that have less than 500 feet of road frontage.
3)
Greater than or equal to 1,000 feet of road frontage - connectivity on all adjoining lots with less than 500 feet of road frontage.
4-4.1.5. Signage. All signage shall comply with and be governed by the standards set forth in Section 8 Sign Regulations in addition to the following criteria:
A maximum of one freestanding sign per parcel, per street frontage shall be permitted. All freestanding signs shall be mounted on a permanent foundation and shall be limited to a maximum height of 15 feet. The maximum sign area for freestanding signs shall be as prescribed in Tables B and C of Section 8 Sign Regulations, and in no case shall a sign area exceed 150 square feet.
