DIVISION 11. - POWERS AND AUTHORITY OF INSPECTORS

Sec. 98-451. - Entrance to properties; confidentiality of certain information.
(a)
The director of utilities and other duly authorized employees of the city, bearing proper credentials and identification, shall be permitted to enter all properties for the purposes of inspection, observation, measurement, sampling, records examination and copying, and the performance of any additional duties.
(b)
When a user has security measures in force, the user shall make necessary arrangements with its security guards so that, upon presentation of suitable identification, the employee will be permitted to enter without delay for the purposes of performing specific responsibilities.
(c)
Any temporary or permanent obstruction to safe and easy access to the facility to be inspected or sampled shall be promptly removed, by the user at the written or verbal request of the director and shall not be replaced. The cost of clearing such access shall be borne by the user.
Sec. 98-452. - Observance of safety rules.
While performing the necessary work on private properties referred to in section 98-451, the director of utilities or duly authorized representatives of the city shall observe all safety rules applicable to the premises established by the company.
Sec. 98-453. - Entrance to certain private properties trough which the city holds easements.
The director of utilities, and other duly authorized representatives of the city bearing proper credentials and identification, shall be permitted to enter all private properties through which the city holds a duly negotiated easement for the purposes of but not limited to, inspection, observation, measurement, sampling, repair and maintenance of any portion of the sewage works lying within said easement. All entry and subsequent work, if any, on such easement shall be done in full accordance with the terms of the duly negotiated easement pertaining to the private property involved.
Secs. 98-454—98-480. - Reserved.
