DIVISION 1. - GENERALLY

Sec. 98-141. - Purpose and policy.
This article sets forth uniform requirements for direct and indirect contributors into the wastewater collection and treatment system for the city and enables the city to comply with all applicable state and federal laws required by the Clean Water Act of 1977 and the General Pretreatment Regulations (40 CFR 403).
(Code 1976, § 5-2001; Ord. No. 83-29, 9-8-1983)
Sec. 98-142. - Objectives.
The objectives of this article are to:
(1)
Prevent the introduction of pollutants into the municipal wastewater system which will interfere with the operation of the system or contaminate the resulting sludge;
(2)
Prevent the introduction of pollutants into the municipal wastewater system which will pass through the system, inadequately treated, into receiving waters or the atmosphere or otherwise be compatible with the system;
(3)
Improve the opportunity to recycle and reclaim wastewaters and sludges from the system; and
(4)
Provide for equitable distribution of the cost of the municipal wastewater system.
(Code 1976, § 5-2001)
Sec. 98-143. - Administration.
This article shall apply to the city and to persons outside the city who are, by contract or agreement with the city, users of the city POTW. Except as otherwise provided, the director of utilities of the city shall administer, implement and enforce the provisions of this article.
(Code 1976, § 5-2001)
Sec. 98-144. - Scope.
This article provides for the regulation of direct and indirect contributors to the municipal wastewater system through the issuance of permits to certain nondomestic users and through enforcement of general requirements for the other users; authorizes monitoring and enforcement activities; requires user reporting; assumes that existing customers' capacity will not be preempted; and provides for the setting of fees for the equitable distribution of costs resulting from the program established in this article.
(Code 1976, § 5-2001)
Sec. 98-145. - Definitions.
Unless the context specifically indicates otherwise, the following terms and phrases, as used in this article, shall have the meanings hereinafter designated:
Act or the Act. The Federal Water Pollution Control Act, also known as the Clean Water Act, as amended, 33 U.S.C. 1251, et seq.
Ammonia nitrogen. That fraction of nitrogen in the ammonia form as analytically determined by standard methods.
Approval authority. The director in a NPDES state with an approved state pretreatment program and the administrator of the EPA in a non-NPDES state or NPDES state without an approved state pretreatment program.
Authorized representative of industrial user. An authorized representative of an industrial user may be: (1) a principal executive officer of at least the level of vice president, if the industrial user is a corporation; (2) a general partner or proprietor if the industrial user is a partnership of proprietorship, respectively; (3) a duly authorized representative of the individual designated above if such representative is responsible for the overall operation of the facilities from which the indirect discharge originates.
Biochemical oxygen demand (BOD). Shall mean the quantity of oxygen utilized in the biochemical oxidation of organic matter under standard laboratory procedure, (approved by EPA) five days at 20 degrees Centigrade expressed in milligram per liter.
Building drain. The part of the lowest horizontal piping of a drainage system which receives the discharge from soil, waste, and other drainage pipes inside the walls of the building and conveys it to the building sewer, beginning five feet (1.5 meters) outside the inner fact of the building wall.
Building sewer. A sewer conveying wastewater from the premises of a user to the POTW to the public sewer or other place of disposal.
Categorical standards. National Categorical Pretreatment Standards or pretreatment standards.
CCF. Hundred cubic feet.
City. The City of Valdosta or the City Council of Valdosta.
City engineer. City Engineer of the City of Valdosta, or his authorized deputy, agent or representative.
COD (denoting chemical oxygen demand). Shall mean the quantity of dissolved oxygen required for the chemical oxidation of decomposable matter under aerobic conditions. COD shall be determined by EPA approved methods.
Collection sewer. A sewer line less than 12 inches in diameter that receives wastewater from a small geographic area and discharges into an interceptor sewer serving more than one collection sewer area.
Combined sewer. A sewer receiving both surface runoff and sewage.
Composite. The make up of a number of individual samples, so taken as to represent the nature of wastewater or industrial wastes.
Constituents. The combination of particles, chemicals, or conditions which exist in the industrial wastes.
Contractual FOG services. A contractual arrangement with an approved registered commercial waste transporter which provides a containment device for all FOG related material constituents generated by a food industry customer including scheduled removal of all FOG materials so as none of these FOG constituents enters the sanitary sewer system or publicly owned treatment works.
Control authority. The term "control authority" shall refer to the "approval authority", defined hereinabove; or the director of utilities.
Control manhole. An appropriately located manhole from which a given user's effluent can be effectively sampled by the city's standard methods.
Cooling water. The water discharged from any use such as air conditioning, cooling or refrigeration, or to which the only pollutant added is heat.
Direct discharge. The discharge of treated or untreated wastewater directly to the waters of the State of Georgia.
Director of utilities. The Director of Utilities for the City of Valdosta, or his authorized deputy, agent or representative.
Effluent. The discharge of flow of a treatment facility.
Environmental Protection Agency or EPA. The U.S. Environmental Protection Agency, or where appropriate, the term may also be used as a designation for the administrator of other duly authorized officials of said agency.
Flammable. Defined by existing fire regulations covering the city.
FOG. Means fats, oils and grease.
Food industry customer. Any restaurant, bakery, deli, meat market, fish/seafood market commercial kitchen or commercial establishment that prepares or cooks food, either for takeout service or to be consumed on-site.
Garbage. Solid wastes from domestic and commercial preparation, cooking and dispensing of food, and from the building, storage and sale of produce.
Grab sample. A sample which is taken from a waste stream on a one-time basis with no regard to the flow in the waste stream and without consideration of time.
Grease interceptor. A device designed and installed to separate and retain for removal food wastes and grease from the waste stream while allowing the balance of the liquid waste to discharge to the wastewater collection system by gravity.
Grease trap or interceptor. A fixture through which all of the discharge of a connection flows and which provides a minimum detention period of ten minutes between influent and effluent baffles with 20 percent of the total volume as allowance for a sludge pocket.
Holding tank waste. Any waste from holding tanks such as vessels, chemical toilets, campers, trailers, septic tanks, and vacuum pump tank trucks.
Indirect discharge. The discharge or the introduction of nondomestic pollutants from any source regulated under sections 307(b) or (c) of the Act, (33 U.S.C. 1317), into the POTW (including holding tank waste discharged into the system).
Industrial user. A source of indirect discharge which does not constitute a "discharge of pollutants" under regulations issued pursuant to section 402, of the Act. (33 U.S.C. 1342).
Industrial wastes. The liquid wastes from industrial manufacturing processes, trade or business as distinct from sanitary sewage.
Influent. The wastewaters arriving at the wastewater treatment plant for treatment and those structures associated with its initial treatment.
Interceptor sewer or trunk line. A sewer line 12 inches or more in diameter into which one or more collection sewers are tributary.
Interference. The inhibition or disruption of the POTW treatment processes or operation which contributes to a violation of any requirement of the city's NPDES permit. The term includes prevention of sewage sludge use or disposal by the POTW in accordance with section 405 of the Act, (33 U.S.C. 1345) or any criteria, guidelines, or regulations developed pursuant to the Solid Waste Disposal Act (SWDA), the Clean Air Act, the Toxic Substances Control Act, or more stringent state criteria (including those contained in any state sludge management plan prepared pursuant to Title IV of SWDA) applicable to the method of disposal or use employed by the POTW.
Metered water. The amount of water consumed by the sewer customer, as measured by the city water meter.
mg/l. Milligrams per liter, or the ratio by weight, interchanged with ppm.
National Categorical Pretreatment Standard or pretreatment standard. Any regulations containing pollutant discharge limits promulgated by the EPA in accordance with sections 307(b) and (c) of the Act (33 U.S.C. 1347) which applies to a specific category of industrial user.
National Pollution Discharge Elimination System or NPDES permit. A permit issued pursuant to section 402 of the Act (33 U.S.C. 1342).
National prohibitive discharge standard or prohibitive discharge standard. Any regulation developed under the authority of section 307(b) of the Act and 40 CFR, Section 403.5.
Natural outlet. Any outlet into a watercourse, pond, ditch, lake or other body of surface or groundwater.
New source. Any source, the construction of which is commenced after the publication of propose regulations prescribinq a section 307(c) (33 U.S.C. 1317) categorical pretreatment standard which will be applicable to such source, if such standard is thereafter promulgated within 120 days of proposal in the federal register. Where the standard is promulgated later than 120 days after proposal, a new source means any source, the construction of which is commenced after the date of promulgation of the standard.
Normal. Those values as standards in the measurement of this division; these limits are defined in context.
Person. Any individual, partnership, co-partnership, firm, company, corporation, association, joint stock company, trust, estate, governmental entity, or their legal representatives, agents or assigns. The masculine gender shall include the feminine, the singular shall include the plural where indicated by the context.
pH. The logarithm (base 10) of the reciprocal of the concentration of hydrogen ions expressed in grams per liter of solution.
Pollutant. Any dredged spoil, solid waste, incinerator residue, sewage, garbage, sewage sludge, munitions, chemical wastes, biological materials, radioactive materials, heat, wrecked or discharged equipment, rock, sand, cellar dirt and industrial, municipal, and agricultural waste discharged into water.
Pollution. The manmade or man-induced alteration of the chemical, physical, biological, and radiological integrity of water.
POTW treatment plant. That portion of the POTW designed to provide treatment to wastewater.
ppm. Parts per million, shall mean ratio by weight.
Pretreatment or treatment. The reduction of the amount of pollutants, the elimination of pollutants, or the alteration of the nature of pollutant properties in wastewater to a less harmful state prior to or in lieu of discharging or otherwise introducing such pollutants into a POTW. The reduction or alteration can be obtained by physical, chemical or biological processes, or process changes or other means, except as prohibited by 40 CFR section 403.6(d).
Pretreatment device. Any device, equipment or system designed to accomplish pretreatment.
Pretreatment requirements. Any substantive or procedural requirement related to pretreatment, other than a National Pretreatment Standard imposed on an industrial user.
Properly shredded garbage. The wastes from the preparation, cooking and dispensing of foods that have been shredded to such a degree that all particles will be carried freely under the flow conditions normally prevailing in public sewers with no particle greater than one-half-inch (1.27 centimeters) in any dimension.
Public sewer. A sewer in which all owners of abutting properties shall have equal rights, and is controlled by public authority.
Publicly owned treatment works (POTW). A treatment works as defined by section 212 of the Act, (33 U.S.C. 1292) which is owned in this instance by the city. This definition includes any sewers that convey wastewater to the POTW treatment plant, but does not include pipes, sewers or other conveyances not connected to a facility providing treatment. For the purposes of this article, "POTW" shall also include any sewers that convey wastewaters to the POTW from persons outside the city who are, by contract or agreement with the city, users of the city's POTW.
Receiving waters. Those waters into which wastes are discharged.
Recurrent maintenance. The removal of the entire contents of the grease interceptor system by pumping the contents of the grease interceptor system no less than once every month. The pumping of contents will be in accordance with State of Georgia Environmental Protection Division Rules and Regulations for Water Quality Control 3913-6-.24 Regulation of Commercial Waste Originators, Pumpers, Transporters, Processors and Disposal Facilities.
Registered commercial waste transporter. A business/owner registered by the State of Georgia Environmental Protection Division (EPD) and whose tank trucks are permitted by a local governing authority.
Sampling. The collection of a sample of two effluent discharges by a given connection to the system.
Sand trap. Means a structure or device designed primarily for the accumulation and removal of grit or sand.
Sanitary sewer. A sewer which carries sewage and to which storm, surface and groundwaters are not intentionally admitted.
Septic tank waste. That waste which results from the emptying of domestic septic tanks.
Sewage. A combination of the water-carried wastes from residences, business buildings, institutions and industrial establishments, together with such ground, surface and stormwaters as may be present.
Sewage treatment plant or wastewater treatment plant. Any arrangement of devices and structures used for treating sewage.
Sewage works. All facilities for collecting, pumping, treating and disposing of sewage.
Sewer. A pipe or conduit for carrying sewage.
Sewer connection charge. The charge assessed against the sewer customers within or without the city that are connected to, or have access to, the city sewage system.
Shall is mandatory. May is permissive.
Significant industrial user. Any industrial user of the city's wastewater disposal system who: (1) has a discharge flow of 25,000 gallons or more per average work day; or (2) has a flow greater than five percent of the flow in the city's wastewater treatment system, or (3) has in his wastes toxic pollutants as defined pursuant to section 307 of the Act of (state) statutes and rules; or (4) is found by the city, (state control agency) or the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) to have significant impact, either singly or in combination with other contributing industries, on the wastewater treatment system, the quality of sludge, the system's effluent quality, or air emissions generated by the system.
Slug. Shall mean any discharge of water, sewage, or industrial waste which in concentration of any given constituent or in quantity of flow, exceeds for any period of duration longer than 15 minutes more than five times the average 24-hour concentration or flow during normal operation.
Standard industrial classification (SIC). A classification pursuant to the Standard Industrial Classification Manual issued by the Executive Office of the President, Office of Management and Budget, 1972.
Standard methods. Shall mean those procedures or methods established by the latest edition of the "Standard Methods for the Examination of Water and Wastewater", as prepared, approved, and published jointly by the American Public Health Association, the American Water Works Association, and the Water Pollution Control Federation.
State. State of Georgia.
Storm drain or storm sewer. A sewer which carries storm and surface waters and drainage, but excludes sewage and industrial wastes, other than unpolluted cooling water.
Stormwater. Any flow occurring during or following any form of natural precipitation and resulting therefrom.
Superintendent. The person designated by the city to supervise the operation of the publicly owned treatment works and who is charged with certain duties and responsibilities by this article, or his duly authorized representative.
Suspended solids or total suspended solids. Shall mean the solids that either float on the surface, or are in suspension in water, sewage, or other liquids, and which are removable by EPA approved methods.
Total solids. Total weight ppm of all solids; dissolved, undissolved, organic or inorganic.
Toxic pollutant. Any pollutant or combination of pollutants listed as toxic in regulations promulgated by the administrator of the Environmental Protection Agency under the provisions of CWA section 307(a) or other Acts.
User. Any person who contributes, causes or permits the contribution of wastewater into city's POTW.
Wastewater. The liquid and water-carried industrial or domestic wastes from dwellings, commercial buildings, industrial facilities, and institutions, together with any groundwater, surface water and stormwater that may be present, whether treated or untreated, which is contributed into or permitted to enter the POTW.
Wastewater contribution permit. As set forth in division 8 of this article.
Watercourse. A channel in which a flow of water occurs, either continuously or intermittently.
Waters of the state. All streams, lakes, ponds, marshes, watercourses, waterways, wells, springs, reservoirs, aquifers, irrigation systems, drainage systems and all other bodies or accumulations of water, surface or underground, natural or artificial, public or private, which are contained within, flow through, or border upon the state or any portion thereof.
(Code 1976, § 5-2002, Ord. No. 2010-17, § 1, 5-20-2010)
Cross reference— Definitions generally, § 1-2.
Sec. 98-146. - Abbreviations.
The following abbreviations shall have the designated meanings:
EXPAND
BOD Biochemical oxygen demand
CFR Code of Federal Regulations
COD Chemical oxygen demand
EPA Environmental Protection Agency
l Liter
mg Milligrams
mg/l Milligrams per liter
NPDES National Pollutant Discharge Elimination System
POTW Publicly owned treatment works
SIC Standard Industrial Classification
SWDA Solid Waste Disposal Act, 42 USC 6901 et seq.
USC United States Code
TSS Total suspended solids
  (Code 1976, § 5-2003)
Sec. 98-147. - Damaging, destroying equipment.
No unauthorized person shall maliciously, willfully or negligently break, damage, destroy, uncover, deface or tamper with any structure, appurtenance or equipment which is a part of the sewage works. Any person violating this section shall be subject to immediate arrest under charge of disorderly conduct.
(Code 1976, § 5-2161; Ord. No. 79-8, 3-7-1979; Ord. No. 83-29, 9-8-1983)
Sec. 98-148. - Entrance to properties; certain information confidential.
The director of utilities and other duly authorized employees of the city, bearing proper credentials and identification, shall be permitted to enter all properties for the purposes of inspection, observation, measurement, sampling and testing in accordance with the provisions of this article. The director of utilities or his representatives shall have no authority to inquire into any processes, including metallurgical, chemical, oil, refining, ceramic, paper or other industries beyond that point bearing on the kind and source of discharge to the sewers or waterways of facilities for waste treatment.
(Code 1976, § 5-2171; Ord. No. 79-8, 3-7-1979; Ord. No. 83-29, 9-8-1983)
Sec. 98-149. - Observance of safety rules.
While performing the necessary work on private properties referred to in section 98-148, the director of utilities or duly authorized employees of the city shall observe all safety rules applicable to the premises established by the company.
(Code 1976, § 5-2172; Ord. No. 79-8, 3-7-1979)
Sec. 98-150. - Entrance to certain private properties through which city holds easements.
The director of utilities, and other duly authorized employees of the city, bearing proper credentials and identification, shall be permitted to enter all private properties through which the city holds a duly negotiated easement for the purposes of but not limited to inspection, observation, measurement, sampling, repair and maintenance of any portion of the sewage works lying within the easement. All entry and subsequent work, if any, on the easement shall be done in full accordance with the terms of the duly negotiated easement pertaining to the private property involved.
(Code 1976, § 5-2173; Ord. No. 79-8, 3-7-1979)
Sec. 98-151. - Notice of violation.
Any person found to be violating any provision of this article shall be served by the city with written notice by certified mail, return receipt requested, stating the nature of the violation and providing a five-day time limit for its satisfactory correction. The offender shall, within the period of time stated in such notice, permanently cease all violation.
(Code 1976, § 5-2191; Ord. No. 79-8, 3-7-1979; Ord. No. 83-29, 9-8-1983)
Sec. 98-152. - Liability for expenses.
Any person violating any of the provisions of this article shall become liable to the city for any expense, loss or damage occasioned by city by reason of such violation.
(Code 1976, § 5-2193; Ord. No. 79-8, 3-7-1979)
Sec. 98-153. - Request for review and explanation.
If any user shall have a grievance concerning the amount of determination of an industrial surcharge or another decision made by the director of utilities pursuant to this article, he may submit a written request for review and explanation by the director of utilities. The director of utilities shall respond to such request within ten days from its receipt, giving a full explanation of his determination.
(Code 1976, § 5-2211; Ord. No. 79-8, 3-7-1979; Ord. No. 83-29, 9-8-1983)
Sec. 98-154. - Filing of appeal; hearing; ruling.
(a)
If any user is not satisfied with the response of the director of utilities, as specified in section 98-153, an appeal may be filed with the city manager. Such appeal shall be filed within ten days of receipt of the director of utilities' response. Upon the filing of an appeal, the city manager shall, within five days of receipt, schedule a hearing before him, and shall give written notice of the date, time and place of hearing to all parties.
(b)
The city manager shall, within five days after the hearing, affirm, modify or overrule the determination of the director of utilities.
(c)
The ruling of the city manager shall be subject to review by the superior court upon proper writ of certiorari.
(Code 1976, § 5-2212; Ord. No. 79-8, 3-7-1979)
Secs. 98-155—98-180. - Reserved.
