ARTICLE II. - VALDOSTA-LOWNDES COUNTY PLANNING COMMISSION[2]

Footnotes:
--- (2) ---
Editor's note— Printed in this article is 1957 Ga. Laws, page 2502, as adopted by the Georgia General Assembly. Amendments to this act are indicated by parenthetical history notes following amended provisions. The absence of a history note indicates that the provision remains unchanged from the original act.

Section 1. - Creation and Appointment.
The board of commissioners of roads and revenues of Lowndes County (hereinafter referred to as the county commission) by resolution, and the mayor and city council of the City of Valdosta (hereinafter referred to as the city council) by ordinance, are authorized to create a joint city-county planning commission (hereinafter referred to as the planning commission) which shall be known as the Valdosta-Lowndes County Planning Commission. The planning commission shall consist of six members; three members appointed or designated by the county commission and three members appointed or designated by the city council. The county commission and the city council may each designate one of their members to be a member of the planning commission. All members of the planning commission shall serve as such without compensation, and none of the appointive members shall hold any other public office or position in the municipality or county. Terms of appointive members shall be four years or thereafter until their successors are appointed, except that the respective terms of two initial county commission appointees shall be one and three years and the terms of two initial city council appointees shall be two and four years. Terms of members of the county and city council designated as members of the planning commission shall be the same as their terms as members of the county and city governing authorities. Any vacancy in the appointive membership shall be filled for the unexpired term in the same manner as the initial appointment. The appointing county commission or city council shall have authority to remove any appointive member for cause stated in writing and after public hearing.
Section 2. - Organization, rules, staff and finances.
The planning commission shall elect one of its appointive members as chairman who shall serve for one year or until he is reelected or his successor is elected. The planning commission shall appoint a secretary who may be an officer or an employee of the city or the county of the planning commission. The planning commission shall meet at least once each month at the call of the chairman and at such other times as the chairman or the planning commission may determine, shall adopt rules for the transaction of business and shall keep a record of its resolutions, transactions, findings and determinations, which record shall be a public record. All meetings shall be open to the public at all times. The planning commission may appoint such employees and a staff as it may deem necessary for its work. In the performance of its duties, the planning commission may cooperate with, contract with, or accept funds from federal, state, or local public or semipublic agencies or private individuals or corporations.
Section 3. - Principal powers and duties.
It shall be the function and duty of the planning commission to make such careful and comprehensive surveys and studies of existing conditions and probable future developments and to prepare such plans for physical, social, and economic growth as will best promote the public health, safety, morals, convenience, prosperity, or the general welfare as well as efficiency and economy in the development of the municipality and county. In particular, the planning commission shall have the power and duty to:
1.
Prepare a master plan or parts thereof for the development of the municipality and the county.
2.
Prepare and recommend for adoption to the city council or county commission respectively a zoning ordinance and map for the municipality or for the county or a specified portion thereof.
3.
Prepare and recommend for adoption to the city council or to the county commission respectively regulations for the subdivision of land within the municipality or within the county.
4.
Prepare and recommend for adoption to the city council or to the county commission, respectively, a plat or plats or an official map showing the exact location of the boundary lines of existing, proposed, extended, widened or narrowed streets, or public building sites, together with regulations to control the erection of buildings or other structures within such lines.
Section 4. - Miscellaneous powers.
The planning commission may make, publish, and distribute maps, plans and reports and recommendations relating to the plan and development of the municipality or county to public officials and agencies, public utility companies, civic, educational, professional and other organizations and citizens. It may recommend to the executive or legislative officials of the municipality or county programs for public improvements and the financing thereof. All public officials shall, upon request, furnish to the planning commission, within a reasonable time such available information as it may require for its work. The planning commission, its members and employees, in the performance of its functions may enter upon any land with permission of owner or owners, make examinations and surveys, and place and maintain necessary monuments and marks thereon. In general, the planning commission shall have such powers as may be necessary to enable it to perform its functions and promote the planning of the municipality and county.
Section 5. - Reports on matters referred to it.
The city council and the county commission may by general or special rule provide for the reference of any matter or class of matters to the planning commission before final action thereon by the public body or officer of the municipality or county having final authority thereon, with the provision that final action thereon shall not be taken until said planning commission has submitted its report thereon or has had a reasonable time, to be fixed in said rule, to submit the report.
Section 6. - Master plan.
It shall be the duty of the planning commission to make a master plan of the municipality and county and to perfect it from time to time. Such master plan shall show existing and proposed streets, highways, expressways, bridges, tunnels and viaducts and approaches thereto, routes of railroads and transit lines, terminals, ports, airports, parks, playgrounds, forests, reservations, site for public buildings and structures, districts for residence, business, industry, recreation, special districts for other purposes, limited development districts for purposes of conservation, protection against floods, water supply, sanitation, and drainage and the like, areas for housing developments, slum clearance, and urban renewal and redevelopment location of public utilities whether publicly or privately owned, including but not limited to sewerage and water supply systems, zoning districts, and other planning features, together with time and priority schedules and cost estimates for the accomplishment of the proposals. The master plan shall be based upon and include appropriate studies of the location and extent of present and anticipated population, social and economic resources and problems, and other useful data. Such plan may be adopted, added to, and changed from time to time, by a majority vote of the planning commission. It shall be a public record, but its purpose and effect shall be solely to aid the planning commission in the performance of its duties.
Section 7. - Zoning: Grant of powers.
For the purpose of promoting the health, safety, morals, convenience, order prosperity, or general welfare of the municipality or county, the city council and the county commission for the municipality and county, respectively, are hereby empowered, in accordance with the conditions and the procedure specified in this act, to regulate the location, height, bulk, number of stories and size of buildings and other structures, the percentage of lot which may be occupied, the sizes of yards, courts, the density and distribution of population, and the uses of buildings, structures, and land for trade, industry, residence, recreation, conservation, water supply, sanitation, protection against floods, public activities, and other purposes.
Section 8. - Zoning: Plan and ordinance.
Whenever the planning commission makes and certifies to the city council or to the county commission, respectively, a zoning plan, including both the full text of the recommended zoning ordinance and the maps, for the municipality or for the entire unincorporated area of the county for any militia district or land lot within the county or for land areas 500 feet wide on either side of any state or county highway or section of such highway within the unincorporated area of the county, then the city council or the county commission may exercise the powers granted to them in section 7 of this act, and for the purpose therein mentioned may divide the municipality or county or above specific portions of county into districts of such number, shape, and size as it may determine, and within such districts it may regulate the erection, construction, reconstruction, alteration, and use of buildings and structures and the uses of land. All such regulations shall be uniform for each class or kind of buildings throughout each district, but the regulations in one district may differ from those in other districts. The county commission or city council may also provide for the termination of any use of a building or structure or land that is not in conformity with the regulations of the district within which it is located (hereinafter called a nonconforming use), by specifying the period or periods in which the nonconforming use shall be required to cease, and by providing a formula or formulae whereby the compulsory termination of a nonconforming use may be so fixed, as to allow for the recovery or amortization of the investment in such nonconforming use.
Section 9. - Zoning: Method of procedure.
Before enacting the zoning ordinance, the city council or the county commission shall hold a public hearing thereon at least thirty days' notice of the time and place of which shall be published once a week for four consecutive weeks in a newspaper of general circulation in the municipality or county. No change in or departure from the text or maps, as certified by the planning commission, shall be made unless such change or departure be first submitted to the planning commission for review and recommendation, condemnation. The planning commission shall have thirty (30) days in which to submit its report.
Section 10. - Zoning: Amendments.
Any zoning ordinance including the maps, may be amended from time to time; but no amendment shall become effective unless it shall have been proposed by or shall first have been submitted to the planning commission for review and recommendation. The planning commission shall have 30 days within which to submit its report. The provisions of the previous section relative to public hearings and official notice shall apply equally to all amendments.
Section 11. - Zoning: Board of appeals.
The city council and the county commission may each create a board of zoning appeals or they may create a joint board of appeals.
The board of appeals shall consist of five members who shall be appointed by the city council or county commission in the case of a separate board of appeals for the municipality or the county for overlapping terms of five years or thereafter until their successors are appointed except that the respective terms of the initial five appointees shall be one for one year, one for two years, one for three years, one for four years, and one for five years. In the case of a joint board of appeals, two members shall be appointed by the county commission and two members by the city council for overlapping terms of five years or thereafter until their successors are appointed except the respective terms of the two initial county commission appointees shall be one and three years and the respective terms of the two initial city council appointees shall be two and four years. These four members shall select a fifth member from the county at large who shall serve for a term of five years. In the event that a fifth member is not selected within 30 days of the date of the appointment of the last of the four members, the fifth member shall be appointed by the judge of the city court of Valdosta. Any vacancy in the membership shall be filled for the unexpired term in the same manner as the initial appointment. Members shall be removable for cause by the appointing authority upon written charges and after public hearing. All members of the board of appeals shall serve as such without compensation and none of the members shall hold any other public office or position in the municipality or county.
The board of appeals shall adopt rules in accordance with the provisions of any ordinance adopted pursuant to this act. Meetings of the board shall be held at the call of the chairman and at such other times as the board may determine. The chairman, or in his absence the acting chairman, may administer oaths and compel the attendance of witnesses. The board shall keep minutes of its proceedings, showing the vote of each member upon each question, or, if absent or failing to vote, indicating such fact, and shall keep records of its examinations and other official actions, all of which shall be immediately filed in the office of the board and shall be a public record.
Appeals to the board of appeals may be taken by any person aggrieved or by any officer, department, board, or bureau of the municipality or county affected by any decision of the administrative officer. Such appeal shall be taken within a reasonable time, as provided by the rules of the board, by filing with the officer from whom the appeal is taken and with the board of appeals a notice of appeal specifying the grounds thereof. The officer from whom the appeal is taken shall forthwith transmit to the board all the papers constituting the record upon which the action appealed from was taken.
An appeal stays all legal proceedings in furtherance of the action appealed from, unless the officer from whom the appeal is taken certifies to the board of appeals after the notice of appeal shall have been filed with him, that by reason of facts stated in a certificate a stay would, in his opinion, cause imminent peril of life and property. In such case proceedings shall not be stayed otherwise than by a restraining order which may be granted by the board of appeals or by a competent court on application, on notice to the officer from whom the appeal is taken, and on due cause shown.
The board of appeals shall fix a reasonable time for the hearing of the appeal or other matter referred to it, and give public notice, thereof, as well as due notice to the parties in interest, and decide the same within a reasonable time. Upon the hearing any party may appear in person or by agent or by attorney.
The board of appeals shall have the following powers:
(1)
To hear and decide appeals where it is alleged there is error in any order, requirement, decision, or determination made by an administrative official in the enforcement of any ordinance adopted pursuant to this act.
(2)
To hear and decide special exceptions to the terms of the ordinance upon which such board is required to pass under such ordinance.
(3)
To authorize upon appeal in specific cases such variance from the terms of the ordinance as will not be contrary to the public interest where, owing to special conditions, a literal enforcement of the provisions of the ordinance will, in an individual case, result in practical difficulty or unnecessary hardship, so that the spirit of the ordinance shall be observed, public safety and welfare secured, and substantial justice done. Such variance may be granted in such individual case of practical difficulty or unnecessary hardship upon a finding by the board of appeals that:
a.
There are extraordinary and exceptional conditions pertaining to the particular piece of property in question because of its size, shape, or topography, and
b.
The application of the ordinance to this particular piece of property would create practical difficulty or unnecessary hardship, and
c.
Such conditions are peculiar to the particular piece of property involved, and
d.
Relief, if granted, would not cause substantial detriment to the public good or impair the purposes and intent of the ordinance; provided, however, that no variance may be granted for a use of land or building or structure that is prohibited by the ordinance.
In exercising the above powers, the board of appeals may, in conformity with the provisions of this act, reverse or affirm, wholly or partly, or may modify the order, requirement, decision or determination, and to that end shall have all the powers of the officer from whom the appeal is taken and may issue or direct the issuance of a permit.
Section 12. - Zoning: Enforcement and remedies.
The city council or county commission may provide for the enforcement of any ordinance enacted under this act by means of the withholding of building permits and occupancy permits, and for such purpose may establish and fill the position of building inspector, individually or jointly. From and after the establishment of such position and the filling of the same, it shall be unlawful to construct, reconstruct, or alter any building or other structure without first obtaining a building permit from such building inspector or to use such building or structure or any land without first obtaining an occupancy permit from such building inspector; and such building inspector shall not issue any permit unless the requirements of this act and of any ordinance adopted pursuant to it are complied with. A violation of any ordinance enacted under this act occurring within the corporate limits of the City of Valdosta shall be punished as provided by city ordinance. In case any building or structure is or is proposed to be erected, constructed, reconstructed, altered, converted, or maintained, or any building, structure or land is or is proposed to be used in violation of any ordinance enacted under this act, the building inspector, city or county attorney, or other appropriate authority of the municipality or county or any adjacent or neighboring property owner who would be specially damaged by such violation may, in addition to other remedies, institute injunction, mandamus, or other appropriate action or proceeding to prevent such unlawful erection, construction, reconstruction, alteration, conversion, maintenance, or use, or to correct or abate such violation, or to prevent the occupancy of said building, structure, or land.
Section 13. - Zoning: Conflict with other laws.
Whenever the regulations made under authority of this act require a greater width or size of yards, courts, or require a lower height of buildings or smaller number of stories, or require a greater percentage of lot to be left unoccupied, or impose other more restrictive standards than are required in or under any other statute, the regulations made under authority of this act shall govern. Whenever the provisions of any other statute require more restrictive standards than are required by the regulations made under authority of this act, the provisions of such statute shall govern.
Section 14. - Subdivision regulation: Provision of regulations.
In exercising the powers granted to it by this act, the planning commission shall prepare and recommend to the city council or to the county commission for adoption regulations governing the subdivision of land within the municipality and unincorporated portion of the county respectively. Such regulations may provide for the harmonious development of the municipality and the county; for the coordination of streets within subdivisions with other existing or planned streets or official map streets; for the size of blocks and lots, for adequate open spaces for traffic, recreation, light, and air; and for a distribution of population and traffic which will tend to create conditions favorable to health, safety, convenience, prosperity, or general welfare.
Such regulations may include requirements as to the extent to which and the manner in which streets shall be graded, surfaced and improved, and water, sewers, septic tanks, and other utility mains, piping connections, or other facilities shall be installed as a condition precedent to the approval of the plat. Such regulations may provide that, in lieu of the completion of such work and installations previous to the final approval of a plat, the city council or county commission may accept a bond, in an amount and with surety and conditions satisfactory to it providing for and securing to the municipality or county the actual construction and installation of such improvements and utilities within a period specified by the planning commission and expressed in the bonds; and the municipality or county is hereby granted the power to enforce such bonds by all appropriate legal and equitable remedies. The city council and the county commission are hereby given the power to adopt and amend such land subdivision regulations after a public hearing thereon, at least 30 days' notice of the time and place of which shall have been published once a week for four consecutive weeks in a newspaper of general circulation in the municipality or county.
Section 15. - Subdivision regulation: Procedure on plats.
The planning commission is hereby given the power to give tentative approval or disapproval to preliminary plats, and to approve or disapprove final plats, but in each case their action shall be taken within thirty days after the submission thereof; otherwise, such plat shall be deemed to have been approved and a certificate to that effect shall be issued by the planning commission on demand; provided, however, that the applicant for the planning commission's approval may waive this requirement and consent to the extension of such period. The ground of disapproval of any plat shall be stated upon the records of the planning commission. Any plat submitted to the planning commission shall contain the name and address of a person to whom notice of hearing may be sent; and no plat shall be acted upon by the planning commission without affording a hearing thereon, notice of the time and place of which shall be sent by mail to said address not less than five days before the date fixed therefor.
Section 16. - Subdivision regulation: Effect of plat approval on status of dedications.
The approval of a plat by the planning commission shall not be deemed to constitute or effect an acceptance by the municipality or county or public of the dedication of any street or other ground shown upon the plat.
Section 17. - Subdivision regulation: Erection of buildings.
From and after the time when the platting jurisdiction of the planning commission shall have attached by virtue of adoption by the planning commission of a major street plan and the adoption by the city council and the county commission of a set of land subdivision regulations recommended to them by the planning commission, no building permit shall be issued for and no building shall be erected on any lot within the municipality or county unless the street giving access to the lot upon which said building is proposed to be placed shall be accepted or opened as, or shall have otherwise received the legal status of a public street prior to that time, or unless such street corresponds in its location and lines with a street shown on a subdivision plat approved by said planning commission or on a street plat made and adopted by said planning commission or with a street located and accepted by the city council or county commission. Any building erected in violation of this section shall be deemed an unlawful structure, and the building inspector or attorney or other official designated by the city council or county commission may bring action to enjoin such erection or cause it to be vacated or removed.
Section 18. - Official map: Platting of street or public building site lines by planning commission.
From and after the time when the planning commission shall have prepared and adopted a master plan or at least the major street portion of such master plan, the planning commission shall have the power to make or cause to be made, from time to time, surveys for the exact location of the lines of new, extended, widened, or narrowed streets in the whole or in any portion of the municipality or county and to make and certify to the city council or to the county commission a plat or plats of the area thus surveyed on which are indicated the lines recommended by the planning commission as the mapped lines of future streets, street extensions, street widenings, or street narrowings.
From and after the time when the planning commission shall have prepared and adopted a master plan or at least the public building sites portion of such master plan, the planning commission shall have the power to make or cause to be made, from time to time, surveys for the exact locating of the boundary lines of new, enlarged or diminished sites for public buildings or sites for parks or playgrounds in the whole or in any portion of the municipality or county and to make and certify to the city council or to the county commission a plat or plats of the areas thus surveyed on which are indicated the locations of the lines recommended by the planning commission as the mapped boundary lines of future public building sites or public park or playground areas or of existing sites or areas that are expanded or contracted.
The making or certifying of a plat by the planning commission shall not in and of itself constitute or be deemed to constitute the opening or establishment of any street or public building site or public park or playground or the taking or acceptance of any land for such purposes.
Section 19. - Official map: Establishment.
From and after the time when the planning commission shall have prepared and adopted a master plan or at least the major street portion of such master plan or the public building sites portion of such master plan, the city council or county commission may establish an official map of the municipality or the county, respectively, showing the location of the streets and public building sites of the whole or any part or parts of the municipality or county theretofore existing and established by law as public streets or public building sites. Such official map may also show the location of the boundary lines of streets or public building sites on plats of subdivisions which shall have been approved by the planning commission. The city council or county commission shall certify the fact of the establishment of the official map to the clerk of the superior court of Lowndes County.
Section 20. - Official map: Additions and changes.
In the event the official map established under section 19 of this act does not include the whole of the municipality or county but only certain part or parts thereof, then the city council or the county commission may add to the official map by placing thereon, from time to time, the boundary lines of streets or public building sites which at the date of the establishment of the official map existed and were established by law as public streets, or public building sites, or which appear on a plat which has been approved by the planning commission.
The city council or the county commission may make, from time to time, other additions to or modifications of the official map by placing thereon the lines of planned new streets, or street extensions, widenings, narrowing or vacations, the line of new public building sites or the enlargement, diminution, or vacation of such areas; provided, however, that before taking any such action the city council or the county commission shall hold a public hearing thereon, notice of the time and place of which shall be given not less than thirty days previous to the time fixed therefor by publication once a week for four weeks in a newspaper of general circulation in the municipality or county and, insofar, as their addresses appear in the municipal or county directory or on municipal or county records or are otherwise known to the city or county clerk, by mail to the record owners of the lands on or abutting which the proposed public street, public building site lines are located; and provided further that such proposed addition or modification of the official map shall be submitted to the planning commission for its review and comment.
Section 21. - Official map: Regulation of buildings in bed of mapped streets.
For the purpose of preserving the integrity of the official map, the city council or county commission may provide by ordinance or resolution, respectively, that no permit shall be issued for any building or structure or part thereof on any land located between the mapped lines of any street or public building site as shown on the official map. Any such ordinance shall provide that the zoning board of appeals, if the municipality or county has such a board or if not, a board of appeals created for the purpose in such ordinance, shall have the power, upon an appeal filed with it by the owner of any such land, to authorize the granting of a permit for a building or structure or part thereof within any such mapped lines in any case in which such board finds, upon the evidence and arguments presented to it upon such appeal: (a) that the property of the appellant of which such mapped street, or public building site forms a part will not yield a reasonable return to the owner unless such permit be granted; or (b) that balancing the interest of the municipality or county in preserving the integrity of the official map and the interest of the owner in the use and benefits of his property, the granting of such permit is required by considerations of justice and equity. Before taking any such action, the board of appeals shall hold a hearing thereon, at least thirty days' notice of the time and place of which shall be given to the appellant by mail at the address specified by the appellant in his appeal petition. In the event that the board of appeals decides to authorize a building permit, it shall have the power to specify the exact location, ground area, height, materials of construction, and other details and conditions of extent and character, and also the duration of the building, structure, or part thereof to be permitted.
Section 22. - Definitions.
For the purpose of this act the term "street" or "streets" means, relates to, and includes streets, avenues, boulevards, roads, highways, expressways, lanes, alleys, and other ways; "subdivision" means the division of a tract or parcel of land into two or more lots, sites, or other divisions for the purpose, whether immediate or future, of sale or building development, and includes resubdivision and, where appropriate to the context, relates to the process of subdividing or to the land or area subdivided.
Section 23. - Powers and authority granted to municipal and county commission are cumulative.
All powers and authority granted by this act to the board of commissioners of roads and revenues of Lowndes County, and to the mayor and city council of the City of Valdosta shall be cumulative. Such powers and authority shall be in addition to all other powers and authority such commissions now have or may later have under any other laws.
Section 24. - [Cumulative powers.]
Powers and authority granted to [the] planning commission and to municipal and county or joint board of appeals are cumulative. All powers and authority granted by this act to the municipal and county or joint board of appeals of the City of Valdosta and of Lowndes County shall be cumulative. Such powers and authority shall be in addition to all other powers and authority such planning commission and boards of appeal now have or may later have under any other law.
Section 25. - [Appeal of decisions.]
Any decision of the board of zoning appeals may be appealed to the superior court within the time and in the same manner as appeals are now or may hereafter be taken from the court of ordinary to the superior court.
Section 26. - [Validity of act.]
The provisions of this act shall not be binding on the mayor and city council of Valdosta and the commissioners of roads and revenues of Lowndes County until same are affirmatively adopted by ordinance or resolution.
