ARTICLE VII. - BOARD OF EDUCATION[7]

Footnotes:
--- (7) ---
Editor's note— This article is a compilation of various special acts of the Georgia General Assembly which do not justify treatment as an article or division of this part I. Section numbers have been arbitrarily assigned to the provisions of this article, and history notes have been provided indicating the source of each section. 1931 Ga. Laws, page 1024, section 1, amended the basic act included herein by changing the name of the governing board from board of school commissioners to board of education throughout that act as amended.

Section 1. - Posts.
From and after the passage of this act, the members of the board of education for the City of Valdosta shall serve in designated posts, which posts shall be designated 1 through 9.
(1972 Ga. Laws, p. 3108, § 1)
Section 2. - Management.
Be it further enacted, that said system of public schools shall be under the management of a board of education, consisting of nine members elected for terms of six years who shall be at least 18 years of age, residents of the City of Valdosta, and shall be elected by the qualified voters of said city in the next election to be held for the purpose of electing a mayor and council for said city in 1995. At such election six members of the board of education shall be elected and designated posts 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, and 6. Posts 1, 2, and 3 shall be elected for terms of six years with the election of posts 4, 5, and 6 to be for four years at the 1995 election and for six years at each succeeding election. The election for posts 7, 8, and 9 shall take place at the election to be held for electing the mayor and council for the City of Valdosta in the year 1997. Thereafter, elections for expired posts shall be held each two years at the election to be held for electing the mayor and council for the City of Valdosta. The members of the board of education for the City of Valdosta in office on the effective date of this section shall continue in office until the election and qualification of their successors as provided in this section. A quorum of said board of education should consist of a majority of the members. Vacancies occurring from the members of said board of education elected by the people shall be filled in accordance with paragraph (1) of subsection (a) of O.C.G.A. § 20-2-54.1. The officers of the board shall be a chairman, a vice-chairman, and secretary and treasurer. The office of secretary and treasurer shall be one office and shall be filled by the same person. Said secretary and treasurer shall give bond, payable to the board of education of said city and to be fixed by said board, conditioned for the safekeeping and proper disbursement of said school funds. His or her books shall always be open to the inspection of said board of education and his or her compensation shall be fixed by said board. Said board of education shall have regular monthly meetings, the time to be fixed by them, and shall meet as frequently as the public school interest may require. Their officers shall be elected by ballot and shall hold their offices for one year and until their successors are elected and qualified. The members of said board of education shall receive per diem expenses in accordance with O.C.G.A. § 20-2-55. The secretary may or may not be a member of said board of education.
(1893 Ga. Laws, p. 453, § 3; 1907 Ga. Laws, p. 957, § 2; 1972 Ga. Laws, p. 3108, § 2; 1992 Ga. Laws, p. 6809, § 1)
Section 3. - Qualification for particular post.
Those positions on the board of education which expire during the year, 1964, shall be designated as posts 1, 2, and 3; those positions which expire during the year, 1966, shall be designated as posts 4, 5, and 6; and those positions which expire during the year, 1968, shall be designated as posts 7, 8, and 9. In all future elections for members of the board of education for the City of Valdosta, the candidates offering for election shall designate and qualify for a particular post on the board. Those candidates receiving the majority number of votes cast for each respective post shall be elected to the board.
(1963 Ga. Laws, p. 3605, § 3A)
Section 4. - Powers.
Be it further enacted, that said board of education shall have authority to establish, and from time to time modify, a system of public schools for the City of Valdosta, to be open not less than eight scholastic months nor longer than ten scholastic months in each year. Said board of education shall have authority to purchase, build, enlarge and rent buildings for school purposes, and to accept gifts and donations of property, money or other things for school purposes under this act, and all deeds taken to real property shall be to the board of education for the City of Valdosta and their successors in office. Said board shall have authority to employ a superintendent and other teachers for said public schools, and to prescribe their duties, to suspend or discharge them for good causes, to prescribe the terms upon which pupils shall be admitted into public schools, and to make such rules, regulations and bylaws as they deem right and proper in maintaining a system of public schools for said city. Said board of education shall have all the power that was conferred upon the original board of education in the above-recited act.
(1893 Ga. Laws, p. 453, § 4; 1907 Ga. Laws, p. 957, § 3)
Section 5. - Additional powers.
Notwithstanding any other provisions of this act, the board of education for the City of Valdosta shall have such powers, privileges and immunities as are now, or hereafter may be, enjoyed by county boards of education unless otherwise prohibited by the constitution or general law.
(1978 Ga. Laws, p. 3615, § 1)
Section 6. - Power to sue, be sued, borrow.
Be it further enacted by the authority aforesaid, that the said board of education be and the same is hereby authorized and empowered to sue and be sued, and, from time to time as said board may deem necessary to borrow money for the purpose of paying teachers and other current expenses incurred in operating said public school system for the City of Valdosta, in amounts not exceeding the entire school fund to be derived from all sources for the current year, and to issue note or notes, or other evidences of indebtedness, for the money thus borrowed.
(1931 Ga. Laws, p. 1024, § 2)
Section 7. - Power to renew notes.
Be it further enacted by the authority aforesaid, that notes heretofore issued by said board of education for the purposes aforesaid be, and the same are hereby declared to be valid and binding obligations upon the said board of education, and said board of education is further authorized to issue notes in renewal of said notes heretofore issued by said board of education.
(1931 Ga. Laws, p. 1024, § 3)
Section 8. - Pro rata state school fund.
Be it further enacted, that the county school commissioner of Lowndes County shall pay over to the treasurer of said board of education the pro rata share of the state and county public school fund coming to said city, and which pro rata amount shall be determined by the average attendance of children on said public schools within the school age.
(1893 Ga. Laws, p. 453, § VI)
Section 9. - School tax to be only what is necessary; mayor and council must levy what is recommended.
Be it further enacted, that the board of education shall only recommend the levying and collecting a tax necessary to support said system of public schools in addition to the fund realized from entrance fees, tuition and the fund received from the state and county public school fund, and from other sources, so that the taxes for said system of public schools shall be as little burdensome as practicable, but the mayor and council shall be required to levy whatever amount is recommended by said board.
(1893 Ga. Laws, p. 453, § VIII)
Section 10. - Payments from state funds.
Be it further enacted, that the board of education of the City of Valdosta be and they are hereby deemed and held entitled to draw the proportionate part of the state school funds of the City of Valdosta direct from the state school authorities, and the state school superintendent is hereby authorized to pay the same to the treasurer of said board of education.
(1919 Ga. Laws, p. 1376, § 4)
Section 11. - School tax.
Be it further enacted that the board of education for the City of Valdosta shall determine as early as practicable in each year, which shall be before the date of the tax levy made by the mayor and council of the City of Valdosta, what amount of money, in addition to that derived from other sources, it will be necessary to raise by taxation to defray the expenses of maintaining and operating the public schools of the City of Valdosta for each current year, and said board shall by resolution promptly lay said information before the mayor and council of said city, and said mayor and council are then hereby authorized and required, as requested by said board, to levy a tax annually, in addition to that levied for other purposes and authorized by law, on all taxable property in said city, not to exceed one percent of the assessed value of said taxable property, and when collected, the collecting officers of said city shall pay the same over to the treasurer of said board of education, to be disbursed for the maintenance and operation of said public schools and to be paid out by said board under such regulations as said board shall prescribe. Said taxes shall be collected by levy and sale as the other taxes of said city are collected.
(1947 Ga. Laws, p. 925, § 5; 1949 Ga. Laws, p. 1392, § 5)
Section 12. - Election to authorize increase.
Be it further enacted that upon request of said board of education for the City of Valdosta, the mayor and council of said city shall order an election after public notice of same shall have been published once a week for four weeks within thirty days prior to the date set for said election, in the official organ of the County of Lowndes, and also including both the Valdosta Times and the Lowndes County News, if said newspapers are being published at said time, said election being for the purpose of authorizing an increase of the levy for the maintenance and operation of the public schools of said city, said increase to be an increase from the said limit of one percent of all of said taxable property in said city, as provided for in the preceding section of this act, to not more than an aggregate of 1.4 percent of the assessed value of said property. In the event such request is submitted to the mayor and council, they shall order said election to be held within a period of not more than sixty days from the date of said request. All persons entitled to vote for mayor and council of said city shall be entitled to vote at said election. All voters who favor granting authority for such increase in the local tax levy for said schools shall have written or printed on their ballots the following: "For increase of local tax for public schools," and those who shall oppose said increase shall have written or printed on their ballots: "Against increase of local tax for public school"; and in case a majority of the votes cast at said election shall be "For increase of local tax for public schools," the result of said election shall be determined by the mayor and council and entered on the minutes of said mayor and council, and thereupon it shall be the duty of the mayor and council of the City of Valdosta, after said request by said board, to annually raise by taxation a sum sufficient to carry out the purposes of this section of this act, provided that said levy shall not exceed an aggregate of 1.4 percent on the taxable property of said city. Said election and the returns of same shall be handled in the same manner as elections for mayor and council of said city.
(1947 Ga. Laws, p. 925, § 6; 1949 Ga. Laws, p. 1392, § 6)
