ARTICLE VII. - MUNICIPAL SERVICES AND IMPROVEMENTS, ASSESSMENTS AND REGULATIONS
CHAPTER 1. - STREETS AND SIDEWALKS

Section 7.1. - Regulations relative to street improvements authorized.
The mayor and council shall have authority to prescribe by ordinance such other rules as the mayor and council in their discretion may deem necessary to grade, pave, drain, macadamize, or curb the streets and alleys of the city; to enforce by execution the costs thereof against adjacent property owners and railroad companies; and to provide how the agents or owners thereof shall be served with notice by personal service or by publication.
Section 7.2. - Improvements authorized.
(a)
The mayor and council are hereby authorized and empowered to establish and change the grade of any streets, avenues, alleys, lanes, and other public places in the city and to improve the same by paving, macadamizing, curbing, and draining the same whenever in their judgment the public convenience and welfare may require such improvements, subject only to the limitations prescribed in this Charter.
(b)
Any railroad company having or which may hereafter have tracks running through the streets, avenues, lanes, alleys, or other public places in the city shall be required by the mayor and council to pave, macadamize, and drain the width of its track and two feet on each side of every line of track now constructed or that may hereafter be constructed by such railroad company. If such railroad company shall fail or refuse to comply with the order of the mayor and council to make such improvements by paving, macadamizing, and draining the same after receiving 30 days' notice to do the work, such work may be done by the mayor and council at the cost and expense of such railroad company, and such cost and expense shall be charged against such railroad company. The mayor and council shall be entitled to a lien for the full amount of such cost and expense against the property of such railroad company, which may be enforced against such property as hereinafter provided for the enforcement of other liens for paving.
(c)
Whenever the mayor and council shall deem it necessary to grade, pave, macadamize, curb, drain, or otherwise improve any street, avenue, alley, lane, or any part thereof within the limits of the city, the mayor and council shall by resolution declare such work or improvement necessary to be done, and such resolution shall be published in six consecutive issues of a daily newspaper published and having a general circulation in the City of Valdosta; and if a majority of the owners of the land liable to assessment to pay for such improvement of any such highway shall not, within 15 days after the last publication of such resolution, file with the city clerk their protests in writing against such improvement, then the mayor and council shall have the power to cause said improvement to be made, to contract therefor, and to levy assessments or liens as resolved. Any number of streets, avenues, alleys, lanes, or other public places or parts thereof within the city to be so improved may be included in one resolution, but any protest or objection shall be made as to each street, avenue, alley, lane, or other public place in the city separately; provided, however, that if a majority of the owners of the land liable to assessment for any such improvement shall petition the mayor and council for such improvement of any street, avenue, alley, lane, or other public place in the city, describing in such petition the character of the improvement desired, the width of the same, and the materials preferred by the petitioners for such improvements, it shall be the duty of the mayor and council to promptly cause the improvement to be made in accordance with the prayer of the petition, and in such cases the resolution hereinbefore mentioned shall not be required.
(d)
The lots, pieces, or parcels of land fronting and abutting both sides of the improvements shall be charged with the costs thereof according to the just pro rata of the entire cost of the improvement for the frontage on the basis of lineal foot frontage; provided, that the frontage of intersecting streets, avenues, alleys, or lanes shall be assessed as real estate abutting the street, avenue, alley, or lane, paved or otherwise improved, and the mayor and council shall be, for all the intents and purposes of this subsection, an owner or legal representative of real estate abutting any street, avenue, alley, or lane; shall possess the same rights and privileges as all other owners of real estate abutting any such street, avenue, alley, or lane; and shall pay from the city treasury the just pro rata of the entire cost of the work or improvement for the frontage.
(e)
Whenever the petition provided for in subsection (c) [of this section] is presented or when the mayor and council shall have determined to pave or improve any street, avenue, alley, lane, or other public place and shall have passed the resolution provided for in subsection (c) of this section, the mayor and council shall then have the power to enact all ordinances and establish all such rules and regulations as may be necessary to require the owners of all property subject to assessment to pay the cost of the improvement and to cause to be put in and constructed all water, gas, or sewer pipe connections to connect with any existing water, gas, or sewer pipes in and underneath the streets, avenues, alleys, lanes, and other public places where the public improvements are to be made, and all costs and expenses for making the connections shall be taxed against such property and shall be included and made a part of the general assessment to cover the cost of the improvement, in addition to the basis of lineal foot frontage, if so determined by the appraisers hereinafter provided for.
(f)
After the expiration of the time for objection or protest on the part of the property owners, if no sufficient protest has been filed, or on receipt of a petition for the improvement signed by a majority of the owners of the land to be assessed, if the petition shall be found to be in proper form and properly executed, the mayor and council shall adopt a resolution reciting that no protest has been filed or acknowledging the filing of the petition, as the case may be, and expressing the determination of the mayor and council to proceed with the improvement, stating the material to be used, the manner of construction; defining the extent, character, and width of the improvement; and such other matters as may be necessary in preparing for the improvement the necessary plans, plots, profiles, specifications and estimates. The resolution shall set forth any and all such reasonable terms and conditions as the mayor and council shall deem proper to impose with reference to the letting of the contract and the provisions thereof. The mayor and council shall by the resolution provide that the contractor shall execute to the city a good and sufficient bond, in an amount to be stated in the resolution, conditioned for the full and faithful performance of the work, the performance of the contract, and for the protection of the city and all property owners interested against any loss or damage by reason of the negligence or improper execution of the work, and may require a bond in an amount to be stated in the resolution for the maintenance of good condition of the improvements for a period of not less than five years from the time of its completion or both, in the discretion of the mayor and council. The resolution shall also direct the city manager to advertise for sealed proposals for furnishing the materials and performing the work necessary in making the improvements. The notice of such proposals shall describe the places to be improved; the kinds of improvements proposed; what, if any, bond or bonds will be required to be executed by the contractor aforesaid; the time and place that such sealed proposals shall be filed; and when and where the same will be considered by the mayor and council. The notice shall be published in ten consecutive issues of a daily newspaper of general circulation in the City of Valdosta. At the time and place specified in the notice, the mayor and council shall examine all bids received and without unnecessary delay award the contract to the lowest and best bidder, who will perform the work and furnish the materials which may be selected and perform all the conditions imposed by the mayor and council as prescribed in such resolution and notice for proposals, which contract shall in no case exceed the estimate of cost submitted to the city manager with the plans and specifications, and the mayor and council shall have the right to reject any and all bids and readvertise for other bids when such bids are not satisfactory in the judgment of the mayor and council.
(g)
As soon as the contract is let and the cost of the improvement, which shall also include all other expenses incurred by the city incident to the improvements in addition to the contract price for the work and materials, is ascertained, the mayor and council shall by resolution appoint a board of appraisers, consisting of the city engineer, city clerk and the chairperson of the board of tax assessors, to appraise and apportion the costs and expenses of the improvement to the several tracts of land abutting the improvement as hereinbefore provided. Within ten days from the date of the resolution appointing the board, the board shall file a written report of the appraisal, assessment, and apportionment of the expenses and costs to the several lots and tracts of land abutting the street, avenue, alley, lane, or other public place so improved with the city clerk in the manner and on the basis herein provided. When the report shall have been returned and filed, the mayor and council shall appoint a time for the holding of a session of the council or shall designate a regular meeting of the council for the hearing of any complaints or objections that may be made concerning the appraisal, apportionment, or assessment as to such lots or tracts of land abutting the improvement. Notice of the session for the hearing shall be published by the city clerk in at least five consecutive issues of any daily newspaper of general circulation in the City of Valdosta, and the notice shall provide for an inspection of the return by any property owner or other party interested in the return. The time fixed for the hearing shall not be less than five days nor more than ten days from the last publication. The mayor and council at the session shall have power to review and correct the appraisal, apportionment, and assessment and to hear objections thereto and to confirm the appraisal and apportionment either as made by the board or as corrected by the mayor and council. Assessments in conformity to the appraisal and apportionment as confirmed by the council shall be payable in ten equal installments and shall bear interest at a rate not exceeding 1 percent above the prime interest rate as then defined by the Federal Reserve Board until paid, payable each year at such time as the several installments of the assessment are made payable each year. The mayor and council shall by ordinance levy assessments in accordance with the appraisal and apportionment as so confirmed against the several tracts of land liable therefor; provided, however, that the rate of interest to be taxed shall not exceed 1 percent over and above the rate of interest stipulated in the bonds herein provided for.
(h)
The first installment of the assessments, together with interest to that date upon the whole, shall be due and payable on the first day of September next succeeding the passage of the ordinance, and one installment with the yearly interest upon the amounts remaining unpaid shall be payable on the first day of September in each succeeding year until all shall be paid; provided, that if the assessing ordinance shall be passed after the first day of August in each year, the first installment of the assessment and interest shall be due and payable on September first of the following year. The ordinance shall also provide that the owners of the property so assessed shall have the privilege of paying the amounts of their respective assessments within 30 days from the date of the passage of the ordinance. The owners of the property so assessed shall be allowed to make payment of their respective assessments without interest within the period of 30 days to the treasurer of the City of Valdosta and relieve their property from the lien of the assessment, which money so paid to the treasurer shall be disbursed pro rata between the contractor and the city in proportion to the respective interests.
(i)
The special assessment and each installment thereof, and the interest thereon, are hereby declared to be a lien against the lots and tracts of land, so assessed from the date of the ordinance levying the same and such lien shall continue until such assessment and interest thereon shall be fully paid, but unmatured installments shall not be deemed to be within the terms of any general covenant or warranty.
(j)
The mayor and council, after the expiration of 30 days from the passage of the ordinance confirming and levying the assessment, shall by resolution provide for the issuance of bonds in the aggregate amount of the assessment remaining unpaid, bearing date fifteen days after the passage of the ordinance levying the assessments and of such denominations as the mayor and council shall determine, which bond or bonds shall in no event become a liability of the mayor and council of the City of Valdosta issuing same. One-tenth in amount of any series of bonds with the interest upon the whole series to date shall be payable on the fifteenth day of September next succeeding the maturity of the first installment of the assessments and interest, and one-tenth thereof with the yearly interest upon the whole amount remaining unpaid shall be payable on the fifteenth day of September in each succeeding year until all shall be paid. The bonds shall bear interest at a rate not exceeding 6 percent per annum from their date until maturity payable annually, shall be designated as "street improvement bonds," and shall on the face thereof recite the street or streets, or part of a street or streets, or other public places for the improvement of which they have been issued and that they are payable solely from assessments which have been levied upon the lots and tracts of land benefited by the improvement under authority of this chapter. The bonds shall be signed by the mayor and attested by the city clerk and shall have the impression of the corporate seal of the city thereon and shall have interest coupons attached, and all bonds issued by authority of this chapter shall be payable at such place either within or without the State of Georgia as shall be designated by the mayor and council.
The bonds shall be sold at not less than par and the proceeds thereof applied to the payment of the contract price and other expenses by the mayor and council, or such bonds in the amount that shall be necessary for that purpose may be turned over and delivered to the contractor at par value in payment of the amount due him or her on said contract, and the portion thereof which shall be necessary to pay other expenses incident to and incurred in providing for said improvements shall be sold or otherwise disposed of as the mayor and council shall direct.
The bonds shall be registered by the city clerk in a book to be provided for that purpose, and certificates of registration by the city clerk shall be endorsed upon each of the bonds.
(k)
The assessments provided for and levied under the provisions of this chapter shall be payable by the person owning the lots or tracts of land as the several installments become due, together with the interest thereon, to the treasurer of the city, who shall give proper receipts for such payments. It shall be the duty of the treasurer to keep an accurate account of all such collections made, and such collections shall be kept in a special fund to be used and applied for the payment of the bonds, any interest thereon, and the expenses incurred thereto and for no other purpose.
It shall be the duty of the treasurer or city clerk, not less than 30 days and not more than 40 days before the maturity of any installment of such assessments, to publish in two successive issues of a daily newspaper published in the City of Valdosta and having a general circulation in the city a notice advising the owner of the property affected by such assessment of the date when such installment and interest will be due and designating the street or streets or other public places for the improvement of which such assessments have been levied and that, unless the same shall be promptly paid, proceedings will be commenced to collect the installment and interest. It shall be the duty of the treasurer, after the date of the maturity of any such installment or assessment and interest and on or before the fifteenth day of September of each year in case of default of payment of such installment or assessment with interest, to issue promptly an execution against the lot or tract of land assessed for such improvement or against the party or person owning the same for the amount of such assessment with interest and to turn over the same to the marshal or chief of police of the City of Valdosta or his or her deputy. The marshal or chief of police of the City of Valdosta or his or her deputy shall levy the same upon the adjoining real estate liable for such assessment and previously assessed for such improvement, and, after advertisement and other proceedings as in cases of tax sales, the same shall be sold at public outcry to the highest bidder; and such sales shall vest an absolute title in the purchaser subject to the lien of the remaining unpaid installments with interest and also subject to the right of redemption as provided from time to time by the laws of the State of Georgia. The defendant shall have the right to file an affidavit denying that the whole or any part of the amount for which the execution is issued is due and stating what amount he or she admits to be due, which amount so admitted to be due shall be paid or collected before the affidavit is received and the affidavit received for the balance. All affidavits (and the foregoing and following provisions shall apply to railroad companies against whom execution shall be issued for the cost and expense of paving) shall set out in detail the reasons why the affidavit claims the amount is not due and, when received by the city marshal or chief of police, shall be returned to the Municipal Court of Valdosta, Lowndes County, Georgia, and there be tried and the issue determined as in cases of illegality, subject to all the penalties provided for in cases of illegality for delay under the O.C.G.A.
The failure of the treasurer or clerk to publish the notice of maturity of any installment of said assessment and interest shall in no wise affect the validity of the assessment and interest and the execution issued therefor.
(l)
No suit shall be sustained to set aside any such assessment or to enjoin the mayor and council from making any such assessment or levying or collecting any such assessment or issuing such bonds or providing for their payment as herein authorized or contesting the validity thereof on any ground or for any reason other than for the failure of the mayor and council to adopt and publish the preliminary resolution provided for in subsection (c) of this section in cases requiring such resolution and its publication and to give the notice of the hearing of the return of the appraisers as herein provided for, unless such suit shall be commenced within 60 days after the passage of the ordinance making such final assessment; provided, however, that, in the event any special assessment shall be found to be invalid or insufficient in whole or in part for any reason whatsoever, the mayor and council may at any time in the manner provided for the levying of an original assessment proceed to cause a new assessment to be made and levied which shall have like force and effect as an original assessment.
(m)
In all cases where the mayor and council shall deem it necessary to repave, redrain, remacadamize, or otherwise improve any street, avenue, alley, lane, or other public place which had been paved or improved prior to the passage of this law or which shall have been heretofore paved, macadamized, or drained under the provisions of this chapter, such pavement or improvement is hereby authorized to be done under and in pursuance of the provisions of this chapter, and in such cases all provisions of this chapter providing for making such improvements and levying assessments therefor and the issuance of bonds shall apply; provided, that, in the judgment of the mayor and council, the pavement is worn out and no longer serviceable.
(n)
The publication of all notices in a daily newspaper called for in this chapter shall be the number of days therein specified exclusive of Sundays and legal holidays.
(o)
Whenever the abutting landowners of any street, avenue, alley, or lane of the city petition the mayor and council as herein set out or the mayor and council pass the resolution provided for in subsection (c) of this section for the pavement of any such street, avenue, alley, lane, or other public place where the state or any political subdivision is the owner of the property on the street, the frontage so owned is to be counted as if owned by an individual and shall be likewise treated for the purposes of assessment; where the state is the owner of the property, the governor is authorized to sign any petition provided for in this chapter for and on behalf of the state, and where the county is the owner, the chairperson of the board of county commissioners of Lowndes County is authorized to sign on behalf of the county; and where the City of Valdosta is the owner, the mayor of Valdosta is authorized to sign on behalf of the city.
Section 7.3. - Assessments for sidewalk and curb improvements.
The mayor and council shall have power and authority to assess two-thirds of the costs of paving and otherwise improving the sidewalks, including the necessary curbing, on the real estate abutting the street and on the side of the street on which the sidewalk is improved.
Similarly, the mayor and council shall have power and authority to assess all of the costs of paving and otherwise improving the sidewalks, including the necessary curbing, against said abutting real estate, provided that, after publication of notice as prescribed by section 7.5 of this chapter, a majority of the owners of the said real estate fail to file protest against the same in the manner and within the time prescribed by section 7.5.
Section 7.4. - Assessments for street improvements.
The mayor and council shall have full power and authority to assess one-thirds of the costs of paving, grading, macadamizing, and constructing side drains, cross drains, and crossings and otherwise improving the roadway or street proper on the real estate abutting each side of the street improved. The real estate abutting shall pay two-thirds of the entire cost, and any railroad company having tracks running through or across the streets of the city shall be required to pave, grade, macadamize, or otherwise improve said streets in such proportion as the mayor and council may prescribe.
Similarly, the mayor and council shall have full power and authority to assess one-half of the costs of paving, grading, macadamizing, and constructing side drains, cross drains, and crossings and otherwise improving the roadway or street proper against the real estate abutting each side of the street or section of street improved, provided that, after publication of notice as prescribed by section 7.5 of this chapter, a majority of the owners of the real estate fail to file protest against the same in the manner and within the time prescribed by section 7.5.
Section 7.5. - Advertising.
The mayor and council shall in no event assess more than two-thirds of the costs of paving and otherwise improving the sidewalks against the abutting real estate, as authorized by section 7.3, or assess more than one-third of the costs of the paving and otherwise improving the roadway or street proper against abutting real estate on each side of the street improved, as authorized by section 7.4, without first advertising their intention to do so once a week for two weeks in a newspaper having general circulation in the City of Valdosta and allowing the owners of the real estate affected a period of ten days after the last publication of the notice in which to file with the city clerk their written protests against the assessment; and in the event that a majority in number of such owners so file their protests within the period of ten days, the excessive assessments shall not be made.
Section 7.6. - Equalizing assessments, authority to provide for.
The mayor and council shall have full power and authority to adopt by ordinance such a system of equalizing assessments on real estate for the above purposes for the amounts set forth as may be just and proper, estimating the total cost of each improvement made and prorating the cost thereof on the real estate, according to its frontage on the street or portion of street improved. The amount of assessment on each piece of real estate shall be a lien on said real estate from the date of the passage of the ordinance providing for the work and making the assessment.
Section 7.7. - Enforcement of assessments.
The mayor and council shall have full power and authority to enforce collection for the amount of any assessment so made for work, either upon the streets or sidewalks, by execution issued by the city clerk against the real estate so assessed and against the owner thereof at the date of the ordinance making such assessment, which execution may be levied by the marshal of the city on such real estate, and, after advertising and other proceedings, as in cases of tax sales, the same shall be sold at public outcry to the highest bidder. Such sale shall pass absolute title to the purchaser. The marshal shall have power to eject occupants and put the purchaser in possession, provided that the defendant shall have the right to file an affidavit denying the whole or any part of the amount for which such execution issued is due and stating what amount, if any, he or she admits to be due, which amount so admitted to be due shall be paid or collected before the affidavit is received, and affidavit received for the balance. All such affidavits received shall be returned to the Superior Court of Lowndes County, Georgia, and shall be there tried and the issue determined as in cases of illegality, subject to all the penalties provided as in cases of illegality filed for delay only.
Section 7.8. - Uniform pavement.
The mayor and council shall have authority to pave and contract to pave the whole surface of any street without giving any railroad company or other property holder or occupant of the street the option of having the space to be paved by it paved by itself or a contract at its instance, the object being to prevent delay and to secure uniformity in the pavement.
Section 7.9. - Liens.
The lien for the assessment upon abutting property and railroad companies, for street or sidewalk paving, curbing, macadamizing, grading, or draining, shall have rank and priority of payment as provided by general law, such lien to date from the passage of the ordinance authorizing the execution of the work in such case.
Section 7.10. - Executions.
All executions issued against property owners for paving, grading, macadamizing, and constructing side drains, cross drains, and crossings and otherwise improving the roadway, street proper, or sidewalks of the city as above provided shall be issued as set forth in section 6.8 of this Charter.
CHAPTER 2. - SEWERS

Section 7.21. - Assessments of cost.
The mayor and council of the city shall have full power and authority to assess the total amount of the actual costs of sewers or drains and of laying and constructing the same upon the real estate abutting streets in the city through and along which sewers or drains may be placed or constructed and upon any real estate through and upon which the same may be constructed or laid. The mayor and council of the city shall have full authority to enforce collection of the amount of such assessments by execution issued by the city clerk against the real estate so assessed and against the owner thereof at the date of the ordinance making such assessments, which execution may be levied by the marshal of the city. After advertising and other proceedings, as in cases of tax sales, said real estate shall be sold at public outcry to the highest bidder, the sale shall pass absolute title to the purchaser, and the city marshal shall have the right to eject occupants and put the purchasers into possession, provided that the defendant named in the execution shall have the right to file an affidavit denying the whole or any part of the amount for which such execution issued is due, which amount so admitted to be due shall be paid or collected before the affidavit is received, and affidavit received for the balance. All such affidavits received shall be returned to the Superior Court of Lowndes County, Georgia, and shall be there tried and the issue determined as in cases of illegality, subject to all the penalties provided as in cases of illegality filed for delay only.
Section 7.22. - Ordinance providing for sewers and drains required; content and publication; notice.
The purchase, laying, and construction of all sewers or drains under this chapter shall be provided for by ordinance. After the first reading of an ordinance providing for a sewer or drain, notice of the introduction of same shall be published in the daily newspaper published in the city, and such notice shall contain a description of the line along which the proposed sewer or drain is to be laid; a description of the general character, material, and size of such sewer or drain; and the date of the introduction of the ordinance, without stating therein any of the other contents of the ordinance. The notice shall be so published in at least as many as six consecutive issues of the Valdosta Daily Times or other daily paper published in the city, and if a majority of the owners of the land liable to assessment as provided in section 7.11 of this chapter shall not, within 15 days after the last publication of the notice, file with the clerk of the city their protests in writing against the adoption or passage of the ordinance, then the ordinance may be adopted or passed by the mayor and council of the city at any regular or called meeting held subsequent to the expiration of the 15-day period after the last publication of the notice, and substantial compliance with the above requirements as to the notice shall be sufficient.
Section 7.23. - Assessment for extension to property line authorized.
Power and authority is given the mayor and council, in addition to assessing the costs of the purchase, laying, and construction of sewers or drains in the streets upon owners of abutting property as herein provided, to likewise assess and collect from owners of abutting property that total cost of extending such sewers, for the purpose of connection with residences, to the property line, at the time such sewers are laid or subsequent thereto; such assessments to be made and collected in the same manner and subject to the same conditions and limitations as hereinbefore provided for the purchase, laying, and construction of the main sewer and subject also to the same remedy of the defendant in execution as hereinbefore provided in section 7.12 of this chapter.
Section 7.24. - Extensions from sewer line to property line; authorized.
Whenever a sewer is laid or constructed in any street or public place, the city is authorized to make extensions from same to the property line—that is, the line of the property abutting the street or public place where such extensions are made—with said extensions to be installed at established intervals of not less than 50 feet each in the residential section of the city and not less than 20 feet each in the business section of the city. The mayor and council are hereby authorized to assess the property abutting the street or public place for the total cost of constructing the extensions; that where same are made in front of the abutting property, the assessments for making extensions shall be made in connection with and at the same time of the laying and construction of the main sewer, and the assessments shall be made and collected in the same manner and subject to the same conditions and limitations as hereinbefore provided in section 7.12 of this chapter.
Section 7.25. - Condemnation.
The mayor and council are hereby authorized to construct and lay down sewer or drains through private property within and beyond the corporate limits of the city, provided, such property is first condemned for such purposes in accordance with the laws of the State of Georgia.
Section 7.26. - Drain defined.
The word, "drain," as used in this chapter, shall include storm sewers, culverts, and catchbasins, as well as other kinds of drainage.
CHAPTER 3. - WATER MAINS AND DRAINS

Section 7.31. - Assessment of cost; authority of mayor and council; enforcement of assessments, etc.
The mayor and council of the city shall have full power and authority to assess the total amount of such assessments by executions issued by the clerk against the real estate so assessed and against the owner thereof at the date of the ordinance making such assessments, which execution may be levied by the marshal of the city on such real estate, and, after advertising and other proceedings as in cases of tax sales, same shall be sold at public outcry to the highest bidder, such sale shall pass absolute title to the purchaser, and the city marshal shall have the right to eject occupants and put the purchasers into possession; provided, that the defendant named in the execution shall have the right to file an affidavit denying the whole or any part of the amount for which the execution issued is due, and stating what amount, if any, he or she admits to be due, which amount so admitted to be due shall be paid or collected before the affidavit is received, and affidavit received for the balance. All such affidavits received shall be returned to the Superior Court of Lowndes County, Georgia, and shall be there tried and the issue determined as in cases of illegality filed for delay only.
Section 7.32. - Ordinance, required; publication, notice.
The purchase, laying, and connecting of all water mains under this chapter shall be provided for by ordinance. After the first reading of an ordinance providing for a water main, notice of the introduction of same shall be published in the Valdosta Daily Times or other daily paper published in the city, and such notice shall contain a description of the line along which the proposed water main is to be laid; a description of the general character, material, and size of such water main; and the date of the introduction of such ordinance, without stating therein any of the other contents of the ordinance. The notice shall be so published in at least as many as six consecutive issues of the Valdosta Daily Times or other daily paper published in the city. If a majority of the owners of the land liable to assessment as provided in section 7.22 of this chapter shall not, within 15 days after the last publication of the notice, file with the clerk their protests in writing against the adoption or passage of the ordinance, then the ordinance may be adopted or passed by the mayor and council of the city at any regular or called meeting held subsequent to the expiration of the said period of 15 days after the last publication of the notice, and substantial compliance with the above requirements as to the notice shall be sufficient.
Section 7.33. - Assessment of cost of extension from line to property line.
Power and authority is given the mayor and council, in addition to assessing the costs of the purchase, laying, and connecting of water mains in the streets upon owners of abutting property as herein provided, to likewise assess and collect from owners of abutting property the total costs of laying to the property line and connecting with the water mains water pipes for the purpose of connection with residences at the time such water mains are laid and connected or subsequent thereto; such assessments to be made and collected in the same manner and subject to the same conditions and limitations as hereinbefore provided for the purchase, laying, and connecting of the water mains and subject also to the same remedy of the defendant in execution as hereinbefore provided in section 7.22 of this chapter.
Section 7.34. - Connection intervals authorized; assessments, etc.
Whenever a water main is laid and connected in any street or public place, the city is authorized to lay same to the property line—that is, the line of property abutting the street or public place where such extensions are made—and connect water pipes with the water mains, such extensions to be installed at established intervals of not less than 50 feet each in the residential section of the city and not less than 20 feet each in the business section of the city. The mayor and council are hereby authorized to assess the property abutting the street or public place for the total costs of laying and connecting such water pipe lines with the water mains, and where same are made in front of said abutting property, the assessments for laying and connecting the water pipe lines with the water mains shall be made in connection with and at the same time of the laying and connecting of the water mains. Such assessments shall be made and collected in the same manner and subject to the same conditions and limitations as hereinbefore provided for the purchase, laying, and connecting of the water mains and subject also to the same remedy of the defendant in execution as hereinbefore provided in section 7.22 of this chapter.
Section 7.35. - Condemnation.
The mayor and council are hereby authorized to lay and connect water mains through private property within the corporate limits of the city, provided, such property is first condemned for such purposes in accordance with the laws of the State of Georgia.
Section 7.36. - Double assessment for corner lots, exemption.
In cases of real estate situated on street corners and having frontage on streets in which a sewer or drain is first laid and when a sewer is laid on the other street, 150 feet of frontage shall be exempt from such assessment on the owner and real estate for the last named sewer or drain; and likewise, in cases of real estate situated on street corners and having frontage on two streets, the owners and real estate thus situated shall be assessed for water mains and connections therewith, as by this chapter provided, for the frontage on the street in which a water main is first laid, and when a water main is laid on the other street, 150 feet of frontage shall be exempt from such assessment on the owner and real estate for the last named water main.
Section 7.37. - Liens.
All the assessments herein authorized and provided for shall be a lien on the property against which the assessment is made, which lien shall date from the date of the adoption of the ordinance making such assessments.
Section 7.38. - Assessment for ditches, canals, drainage ditches, etc.
The mayor and council shall have full power and authority to assess by ordinance or resolution duly passed in open session and meeting, two-thirds of the costs of digging, cutting, and constructing ditches, canals, or drainage pipes for the purpose of draining any lands in the city against the land immediately and directly drained and benefited by such ditch, canal, or drainage pipe so dug, cut, or constructed and against the owners thereof, said assessment to be prorated according to the amount of land drained, the benefit accruing therefrom, and all other facts and circumstances connected therewith. The same shall be and become a judgment against the land and the owner thereof and a lien against the land assessed from the date of the passage of the ordinance or resolution. Should the owner of such land fail or refuse to pay the amount assessed against such land within 30 days from the date of the assessment, the same shall be collected by execution issued by the city clerk against the real estate so assessed and against the owner at the date of the assessment, which execution shall be levied by the marshal or chief of police of the city upon such real estate, and said real estate shall be advertised and sold as provided for in cases of tax sales. Such sale shall pass absolute title to the purchaser, who shall be put in possession by the officer making the sale; provided, however, that the defendant or owner of the land shall have the right to file his or her affidavit of illegality with such levying officer in which he or she shall have the right to set up and take advantage of any and all defenses to which he or she may have a right under the law, said illegality to be as other cases of illegality, and provided, further, that in all cases where, as provided by law, damages have been awarded to the owner of any land thus assessed, the mayor and council shall allow the amount of such drainage as a setoff against such assessment, or same may be taken advantage of in said affidavit of illegality.
CHAPTER 4. - UTILITIES

Section 7.41. - Regulations relative to water supply, authorized.
The mayor and council shall have power to make rules and regulations respecting the introduction of water into or upon the premises and from time to time to regulate the use thereof in such manner as shall seem to them proper, and the superintendents or inspectors in their service are hereby authorized and empowered to enter at all reasonable hours any dwelling or other place where the water is taken and used and, where unnecessary waste thereof is found, to inspect, examine, and inquire as to the cost thereof. They shall have the power also to examine all service pipes, stop cocks, and other apparatus connected with said water system for the purpose of ascertaining whether same are of the character and dimensions and fixed in the manner directed in the permits issued therefor. If any person or persons refuse to permit such examinations or oppose or obstruct such officer in the performance of his or her duty, he, she, or they so offending shall be liable for such damages as the mayor and council may prescribe not inconsistent with this Charter.
Section 7.42. - Water rates.
The mayor and council shall have power to regulate the distribution and use of water in all places and for all purposes where the same may be required and from time to time shall fix the price for the use thereof and the time of payment and may erect such number of public hydrants and in such places as they shall see fit, directing in what manner and for what purposes they shall be used, and all of which they may change at their discretion. They shall have power and authority to require the payment in advance for the use and rent of water furnished by them in or upon any building, place, or premises, and in case prompt payment shall not be made, they may shut off the water from such place, building, or premises and shall not be compelled again to supply such place, building, or premises with water until said arrears, with interest thereon, shall be promptly paid, except as otherwise provided by general law.
Section 7.43. - Protection of water supply.
If any person or persons shall maliciously or wrongfully divert the water or any portion thereof from the waterworks or shall corrupt or render the same impure or shall destroy or injure any canal, aqueduct, public conduit, machinery, or other property used or required for procuring or distributing the water, such person or persons and their aiders and abettors shall forfeit to the mayor and council, to be recovered in an action for damages, such types and amounts of damages which may be recovered according to law and which shall appear on trial to have been sustained.
