SECTION 5.000 - ENFORCEMENT

Section 5.100 - Penalties for violation.
Any firm, person or corporation violating any provisions of this ordinance as the same exists or as it may hereafter be amended or who shall fail to follow requirements of these regulations as they now exist or as they may hereafter be amended is hereby declared to be guilty of violation of a County ordinance and shall be punished as provided by law.
In addition to said County ordinance provision, the County Commissioners, Zoning Administrator, or other appropriate authority of the County, are authorized to institute civil action to penalize violation of any part of the Thomas County Land Use Standards Ordinance. The civil penalty shall not exceed three hundred dollars ($300.00) per day per violation except as may otherwise be authorized by law and provided by Ordinance. In addition to said civil penalties, reimbursement to the County Commissioners for reasonable attorney fees for the enforcement of the order and costs of litigation, including clerks, deposition and related costs, are authorized to be awarded by the said appropriate judicial authority.
Section 5.200 - Remedies.
In the event any building or structure is or is proposed to be erected, constructed, reconstructed, altered, repaired, converted, or maintained, or any building, structure, or land is or is proposed to be used in violation of any provision of this ordinance, the Zoning Administrator, County Attorney or other appropriate authority of the County or any adjacent or neighboring property owner who would be damaged by such violation may, in addition to other remedies, apply for an injunction, mandamus or other appropriate action or proceedings to prevent such unlawful erection, construction, reconstruction, alteration, repair, conversion, maintenance, or use to restrain, correct or abate such violation, to prevent the occupancy or use of such building, structure or land, or to prevent any illegal act, conduct, business, or use in or about such premises.
The said Administrator of Thomas County Planning and Zoning and Building Department is hereby authorized to issue written "stop work" and "cease and desist" orders on any project when the applicant, applicant's business or agent fails to comply with the Thomas County Land Use Standards Ordinance. Such "stop work" and "cease and desist" orders may be lifted at such time as the Administrator is satisfied that a good faith effort to comply is being made. At any point the Zoning Administrator may reissue "stop work" and "cease and desist" orders.
In any case where the Zoning Administrator or his agent is unable to safely carry out inspections pursuant to the requirements of this ordinance, an inspection warrant or other order as may be provided by law or Ordinance may be obtained for such purpose.
Any person, officer, board, or bureau of Thomas County aggrieved by any order, decision, determination or interpretation of the Zoning Administrator with respect to the provisions of this section may appeal to the Thomas County Board of Commissioners as set forth in Section 4.500 of the Thomas County Land Use Standards Ordinance.
Section 5.300 - Cumulative remedy.
The remedies herein provided shall not be deemed to be exclusive but shall be cumulative of all other remedies provided by law.
