Chapter 74 - SOLID WASTE[1]
Footnotes:
--- (1) ---
Cross reference— Buildings and building regulations, ch. 18; environment, ch. 42; environmental scrap tire and solid waste compliance ordinance, ch. 42, art. V; fire prevention and protection, ch. 46; utilities, ch. 94.
State Law reference— Authorization to provide garbage and solid waste collection and disposal, Ga. Const. art. 9, sec. 2, par. 3; Solid Waste Management Act, O.C.G.A. § 12-8-20 et seq.; local and regional solid waste plans, O.C.G.A. § 12-8-31.1; hazardous waste disposal, O.C.G.A. § 12-8-61 et seq.; Litter Control Law, O.C.G.A. § 16-7-40; transporting garbage or waste across state or county boundaries pursuant to contract, O.C.G.A. § 36-1-16; Resource Recovery Development Authorities Law, O.C.G.A. § 36-63-1 et seq.; littering highways, O.C.G.A. § 40-6-249.

ARTICLE I. - IN GENERAL

Sec. 74-1. - Solid waste management plans.
(a)
The board of commissioners of Thomas County, Georgia; the mayor and city council of Barwick, Georgia; the mayor and city council of Boston, Georgia; the mayor and city council of Coolidge, Georgia; the mayor and city council of Meigs, Georgia; the mayor and city council of Ochlocknee, Georgia; the mayor and city council of Pavo, Georgia; and the mayor and city council of Thomasville, Georgia shall enter into a cooperative joint agreement for the development of a unified solid waste management plan. This agreement hereby provides for such local governments to jointly submit for review and certification their local solid waste management plan to the Southwest Georgia Regional Development Center as required by the Georgia Solid Waste Management Act signed into law March 30, 1990. Each of the local governments shall develop its own implementation strategy and public education information program. If any of the local governments does not formally adopt the solid waste management plan or develop its own implementation strategy and public education information program called for in this section, that shall not exclude the other local governments from submitting the solid waste management plan for review and certification.
(b)
The county solid waste management plan (June 1992), as revised, and as approved by the state department of community affairs on February 5, 1993, is hereby approved and adopted by this reference thereto.
(Res. of 2-11-92; Res. of 3-9-93(1))
Sec. 74-2. - Dumpster sites.
All garbage and/or solid waste shall be placed into dumpsters provided by the county at dumpster sites and shall therein remain until removed by the dumpster pickup services. Any person failing to place the same in such dumpster at the site; removing and scattering the same on or near the dumpster site; or scavenging the same shall be guilty of a misdemeanor.
(Ord. of 6-9-81)
Sec. 74-3. - Littering.
No person shall deposit any rubbish, refuse or any other waste material on the rights-of-way of any of the public streets, roads or byways owned or maintained by the county, or at any of the sites used by the county for refuse containers or garbage or refuse collection.
(Res. of 6-9-87(1), § 1(e))
Sec. 74-4. - Use of garbage bins; prohibited deposits.
(a)
Garbage bins are maintained for regular household wastes and garbage as well as paper wastes, and metal or glass containers of five gallons or less in volume.
(b)
It shall be a violation of this section to deposit any items in the garbage bins which are not included in the categories defined by subsection (a) of this section. Items specifically forbidden to be deposited shall include the following:
(1)
Any industrial and agricultural wastes.
(2)
Any hazardous wastes.
(3)
Tires.
(4)
Any glass or metal containers of more than five gallons in volume.
(5)
Any metal, masonry, lumber, roofing, fencing, including posts and wire.
(6)
Any household furniture and appliances.
(7)
Any shrubbery clippings, limbs, trees or tree sections.
(8)
Any dead animals.
(Res. of 4-13-82(1), § 1; Res. of 5-11-82, § 1; Res. of 6-9-87(1), § 1(f), (g))
Sec. 74-5. - Reward offered for trash bin and litter violation information.
A reward of $50.00 shall be offered for persons convicted of trash bin and litter violations, with the county manager, county attorney, sheriff and magistrate judge working out the particulars.
(Mo. of 6-12-90)
Sec. 74-6. - Enforcement, penalties.
Any person who violates any provision of this chapter shall be guilty of a county ordinance violation pursuant to O.C.G.A. § 15-1-60. Prosecution for such violation shall lie in the magistrate court of the county, and any person adjudicated guilty of such a violation may be punished as provided in section 1-12.
(Res. of 6-9-87(2), § 2)
Sec. 74-7. - Provisions saved from repeal.
Sections 4-2001 through 4-2007 of the 1977 Code on the subject of solid waste collection and disposal are not repealed and shall continue in full force and effect pending a revision of the subject matter by the county.
Secs. 74-8—74-30. - Reserved.
ARTICLE II. - SOLID WASTE INCINERATION[2]
Footnotes:
--- (2) ---
State Law reference— Transportation of biomedical waste, O.C.G.A. § 40-6-253.1.

DIVISION 1. - GENERALLY

Sec. 74-31. - Definitions.
The following words, terms and phrases, when used in this article, shall have the meanings ascribed to them in this section, except where the context clearly indicates a different meaning:
Air curtain destructor (ACD) means a forced air pit incinerator meeting Environmental Protection Division (EPD) construction, operating condition and operating procedure requirements.
Biomedical waste means and includes the following:
(1)
Pathological waste, which means all recognizable human tissue and body parts which are removed during surgery, obstetrical procedures, autopsy and laboratory procedures.
(2)
Biological waste, which means bulk blood and blood products, exudates, secretions, suctionings, and other bulk body fluids which cannot or are not directly discarded into a municipal sewer system.
(3)
Cultures and stocks of infectious agents and associated biologicals including cultures from medical and pathological laboratories, cultures and stocks of infectious agents from research and industrial laboratories, wastes from the production of biologicals, discarded live and attenuated vaccines, and culture dishes and devices used to transfer, inoculate and mix cultures.
(4)
Contaminated animal carcasses, body parts, their bedding, and other wastes from such animals which have been exposed to infectious agents capable of causing disease in man during research, production of biologicals, or testing of pharmaceuticals.
(5)
Sharps, which means any discarded article which may cause punctures or cuts. Such waste includes, but is not limited to, items such as needles, IV tubing and syringes and needles attached, and scalpel blades.
(6)
Chemotherapy waste, which means any disposable material which has come in contact with cytotoxic/antineoplastic agents (agents toxic to cells) and/or antineoplastic agents (agents that inhibit or prevent the growth and spread of tumors or malignant cells) during the preparation, handling and administration of such agents. Such waste includes, but is not limited to, masks, gloves, gowns, empty IV tubing, bags and vials, and other contaminated materials. The above waste must first be classified as empty which means such quantity that it is not subject to other federal or state waste management regulations prior to being handled as biomedical waste.
(7)
Discarded medical equipment and parts, not including expendable supplies and materials which have not been decontaminated, that were in contact with infectious agents.
Environmental quality board (EQB) means a board of five citizens appointed by the board of commissioners to assist in the administration of this article.
Incineration means a controlled process by which solid, liquid and gaseous combustible wastes are burned and changed into gases and a residue produced which is relatively free of combustible materials.
Incineration facility means the combined incinerators under one ownership at a single location.
Incinerator means all devices intended or used for the reduction or destruction of solid, liquid or gaseous wastes by burning.
Incinerator ash means the residue remaining after the incineration of solid waste.
Operator means the person having direct supervision of daily field operations of an incineration facility to ensure that the site operates in compliance with the permit.
Person means the state or any other state or any agency or institution thereof, and any municipality, political subdivision, public or private corporation, special district empowered to engage in solid waste management activities, individual, partnership association or other entity in Georgia or any other state. The term also includes any officer or governing or managing body of any municipality, political subdivision, special district empowered in solid waste activities, or public or private corporation in Georgia or any other state. This term also includes employees, departments, and agencies of the federal government.
Principal use incinerator facility means an incinerator or incinerators at a single location where the incineration process is the primary business and where the facility has the total capacity of burning greater than 50 pounds per hour.
Uncontrolled emissions of dioxins means the dioxins emissions measured from the incinerator at a location downstream of the last combustion chamber, but prior to the air pollution control equipment.
(Res. of 5-12-92, § III)
Cross reference— Definitions generally, § 1-2.
Sec. 74-32. - Purpose.
The purpose of this article is to:
(1)
Regulate the disposal of solid waste in the county in a manner so as to protect the public health, safety and welfare and to preserve the environmental resources of the county and to conserve the county landfill capabilities.
(2)
Regulate the location, operation and management of incineration facilities dealing with the storage, transfer, treatment or disposal of waste where the total incinerator capacity is greater than 50 pounds per hour.
(3)
Regulate the disposal of biomedical wastes which require special handling in order to protect the public health, safety and welfare of the citizens of the county.
(Res. of 5-12-92, § II)
Sec. 74-33. - Enforcement.
No building permit shall issue for construction of a principal use incinerator facility unless the property owner shall have fully complied with the terms of this article. A landowner shall comply with the terms of this article in order to obtain a permissive use permit. Any person seeking permission to transport waste into the county shall be required to produce written evidence that all waste to be incinerated will be disposed of at a facility meeting the terms of this article.
(Res. of 5-12-92, § X)
Sec. 74-34. - Penalty.
Any violation of this article shall be punishable as provided in section 1-12. In addition, any facility operated in violation hereof shall subject its owner to a fine of $1,000.00 per day for each day of illegal operation.
(Res. of 5-12-92, § XII)
Secs. 74-35—74-50. - Reserved.
DIVISION 2. - PERMIT

Sec. 74-51. - Required.
(a)
Owners and operators of incinerators shall be permitted as required by the rules and regulations of the state department of natural resources. Any violation of the conditions of the department of natural resources permit shall also be a violation of the conditions of any county permit.
(b)
No person engaged in the operation of a principal use incinerator and no person shall construct or operate a principal use incineration facility without having a permit issued by the board of commissioners pursuant to this division.
(c)
No person shall operate a biomedical waste incinerator or shall construct or operate a principal use medical waste incineration facility without having a valid principal use biomedical incinerator permit issued by the board of commissioners pursuant to this division.
(Res. of 5-12-92, § IV)
Sec. 74-52. - Applications for principal use incinerator and/or biomedical waste incinerators.
(a)
A permit applicant shall prepare and file an incineration permit application with the board of commissioners. The permit application shall include all related documents submitted to the United States government and to the state.
(b)
An application shall contain the following information:
(1)
A description of the company, information on its financial capability, and a detailed history of all its past activities in the field of incineration, including a synopsis of every other facility it has operated, and including a detailed account of all past and pending litigation, favorable and unfavorable. Include the record of any subsidiary or parent corporation having an interest greater than five percent of the outstanding shares of the applicant corporation. Also include a list of all past and present litigation, favorable and unfavorable, the subsidiary or parent corporation has been involved in.
(2)
Evidence of liability insurance in the amount of $1,000,000.00 for sudden and $10,000,000.00 for nonsudden coverage. Evidence of $10,000,000.00 liability insurance to run for five years subsequent to closure to cover post-closure costs. Also provide a history of any claims against the company at any site, including the record of any subsidiary or parent corporation as defined above.
(3)
Justification for and anticipated benefits from the project.
(4)
A description of the scope of the proposed project, including an estimated schedule of how much and what kinds of waste the facility would accept, where the material would come from, what pretreatment will be required of wastes unacceptable to the facility without such pretreatment, and how long the facility is expected to operate.
(5)
Yearly site operation expenses and an estimate of the costs for the lifetime of the project.
(6)
The proposed method of financing the project, including development, operation and closure stages. Include a list of the financial institution names which will be funding construction.
(7)
Provide resumes of management personnel and the proposed number of employees and types of positions, including information on the training and experience required for each position, and safety precautions undertaken for the protection of personnel.
(8)
The anticipated date to begin construction.
(9)
The anticipated date to begin operation.
(10)
A detailed estimate of the types and amount of local government services required by the operator in each year.
(11)
A description of emergency procedures and safety and security precautions that will be in use at the facility. This information should include details on emergency assistance and emergency medical treatment that will be required from the area's medical facilities, the county rescue squad and community fire departments.
(12)
A description of the environmental protection measures to be taken by the applicant to prevent contamination in and around the facility site and the description of planned monitoring systems, with an estimated annual budget for each of these items.
(13)
A description of the environmental protection measures to be used during transportation of materials to and from the facility, with an estimated annual budget for these arrangements and an estimate of the volume of materials to be transported during each year of operation.
(14)
A description of the site closure plan for the facility and the anticipated date of closure.
(15)
A description of anticipated need for post-closure care.
(c)
A map or other written material attached to the application shall include but are not limited to the following information:
(1)
Ownership.
a.
Name, address and telephone number of legal owner (and/or agent) of the subject property.
b.
Name, address and telephone number of professional persons responsible for plat of survey.
c.
Description of any existing rights-of-way or easements affecting the property.
d.
Reference to any existing restrictive covenants on the property.
(2)
Description. Location on property tax map and parcel number. This description should include a reference to the deed book and page or other evidence of title the current property owner may have.
(3)
Features. Each map shall contain the following information:
a.
Drawn to scale of not less than 200 feet to the inch.
b.
Location sketch map showing the relationship of the project to the surrounding areas.
c.
Graphic scale, date, north arrow and legend.
d.
Location of property with respect to surrounding property and roads, and the names and addresses of adjacent property owners according to county tax records.
e.
Zoning classification of proposed project and adjacent property.
f.
The location of all boundary lines of the property.
g.
The total acreage of land in the project.
h.
The location of existing and/or platted streets, easements, buildings, railroads, cemeteries, bridges, sewers, water mains, culverts, wells and gas and electric transmission lines.
i.
The location of water bodies, watercourses, groundwater aquifers, springs and other pertinent features.
j.
The location, dimensions and acreage of all property proposed to be set aside for various uses on the applicant's property.
k.
The location of all test wells and/or borings.
l.
The location of the 500- and 100-year floodplain, and records of flood, including inundation due to dam break.
m.
The location of historic properties and gravesites including any plans of relocation of graves and properties having historical significance.
(4)
Geological map. A map showing location of faults, dikes, sills and other pertinent geologic features including bedrock type and strike and dip of any mappable bedding; the depth and degree of weathering (saprolite); identification and location of clay as to thickness, type and permeability; and location of the water table as to approximate depth, gradient and surface configuration.
(5)
Topographic map. A topographic map with contours at vertical intervals of not more than five feet at the same scale as to the project site map shall be included. Date, method of preparation and preparer of the survey shall be stated.
(6)
Transportation route map. A map showing proposed transportation routes to and from the facility site, including location of towns and emergency and safety facilities. Include an estimate of the volume of material to travel on each route.
(d)
The application shall address the following factors with regard to, but not limited to, on-site storage and/or disposal:
(1)
Contaminant flow to water table including leachate monitoring, collecting and withdrawal systems; clay and synthetic liners (extra thickness, multiple liners); spill prevention and containment measures.
(2)
Contaminant movement with groundwater, including groundwater, monitoring systems at the site and in potentially affected area; subsurface slurry wall barriers' control and other groundwater withdrawals in the area.
(3)
Predictability of contaminate movement, based on preconstructed borings and groundwater modelling.
(4)
Potential effect on surface waters; planned collection systems for surface water runoff; planned exclusion systems for surface water run-on.
(5)
Potential effect on aquifers; planned provisions for alternate water supply systems and facilities for immediate pumping and treatment of contaminated water.
(6)
Potential effect on public water supply; planned runoff collection and treatment and provisions for alternate supply systems.
(7)
Possibility of site flooding; planned special facility design, special control dikes, and buffer zone setback in area of standard project flood area.
(8)
Potential human exposure to treated wastewater, including planned safety procedures, clothing, instruction, and practice for employees; planned oversized or redundant treatment capacity, affluent monitoring and automatic shutdown systems.
(9)
With respect to incineration, the nature and predictability of pollution movement, including planned stack height for incinerators with continuous stack monitoring and recording, until emission levels are predictable; planned segregation of incompatible wastes.
(e)
In addition to the above application for principal use biomedical incineration facilities shall show the ability to comply with each provision of section 74-91.
(Res. of 5-12-92, § V)
Sec. 74-53. - Application and processing fees for principal use incinerator and/or biomedical use incinerators.
(a)
The board of commissioners, upon the recommendation of the EQB, shall require a permit application fee in the amount of $100,000.00 to reimburse the county for the costs of any needed professional assistance that may be required to evaluate the permit application and amendments, verify its contents and evaluate the impact of such a permit on the community, public health and environment, and to pay other reasonable overhead costs incurred by the county in reviewing the application. This assistance may include, but shall not be limited to, the assistance of lawyers, biologists, geologists, engineers, chemists, hydrologists, emergency response, transportation and public health experts, land appraisers and professional testing laboratories. Funds not so expended in the legitimate review of the permit application shall be returned to the applicant.
(b)
Failure to provide these funds within 30 days of demand therefor shall result in termination of the permit process or cancellation of the permit. The board of commissioners may take legal action against the applicant for any costs incurred to the county up to the point of termination.
(Res. of 5-12-92, § VI)
Sec. 74-54. - Review procedure for principal use incinerator and/or biomedical use incinerators; determinations.
(a)
The permit applicant shall submit to the board of commissioners 12 copies of all information required by federal and state agencies for the facility for which it requests a county permit at the time such information is submitted to the state and federal governments. The review procedure shall not begin nor shall the application be designated as complete until such time as all required data is submitted and the appropriate fees are paid, or suitable arrangements for payment have been approved by the board of commissioners.
(b)
A designee of the board of commissioners shall compile copies of all reports, applications, minutes of the EQB meetings, reports by consultants and similar materials. These shall be placed in one location with free access by the public and availability of copying any portion or all of any document at cost.
(c)
Within 45 days of the submission of the application, the board of commissioners shall set a time for a public hearing so that the applicant can present its plans to the EQB and answer questions regarding the same.
(d)
After the hearing, the board of commissioners, after consultation with the EQB, shall have 60 days in which to determine if the application is complete and shall mail notice of its determination to the applicant. If it is not complete, the applicant will have six months to complete the application. However, the applicant may at the end of six months make a showing of cause to the board of commissioners, and if the board of commissioners finds that the delay is justified and in good faith, it can grant the applicant a maximum three-month extension.
(e)
Each application shall require an analysis conducted by the county staff and a consultant selected by the board of commissioners upon the recommendation of the EQB. The analysis shall be completed within 90 days from the day the application is determined to be complete. In certain instances where the complexity of the application requires more than the usual 90 days, the county staff and/or consultant may request an additional 60 days from the board of commissioners and the proponent has the option of requesting the board of commissioners to extend the analysis period to allow time for responding to staff and/or consultant request for additional information on a completed application. If the integrated long-range solid waste management plan referred to in subsection (h)(6) below shall not be completed by the end of the analysis period, the consultant or staff may request an additional 90 days to allow for the completion of the plan.
(f)
The county staff and each consultant shall make reports on the application to the EQB at their meetings.
(g)
The EQB shall call a public meeting for public comment on the completed application along with the analysis of county staff and consultants. The purpose of this meeting shall be for public review of the application. The staff shall give notice by regular mail of the time and place of the public meeting to the owner and adjacent property owners as specified on the map. The notice shall be mailed not less than 14 days prior to the date specified thereon. Notice of a public meeting shall be posted by the applicant on the proposed facility property on each and every street of access not less than 14 days prior to the date specified thereon. The posted notice shall be at intervals of not greater than 1,500 feet. Notice shall also be placed by the applicant in the county newspaper not less than 14 days prior to the dates specified thereon.
(h)
Within 45 days after receipt of the final analysis, complete application and public comment, the EQB shall make a recommendation to the board of commissioners at a public meeting whether to accept the application, deny it, or accept it with modifications. This recommendation shall be made to the full board of commissioners at a public meeting; however, before making a recommendation to the county commissioners to accept the proposal or accept it with modifications, the EQB shall make the following determinations:
(1)
That there is a bona fide need for the facility and there is no reasonable alternative facility which will pose a lesser threat to the environment.
(2)
That the construction and operation of the facility will not pose an unreasonable health or environmental risk to the surrounding locality.
(3)
That the applicant (or facility operator) has the capability, and financial resources to construct, operate and maintain the facility.
(4)
That the applicant or operator has taken or consented in writing to take any and all reasonable measures to comply with the applicable federal, state and local regulations and ordinances.
(5)
That the applicant's plan represents the best available technology for handling the waste for which the facility is constructed to handle and the applicant has demonstrated that it will employ the best management practices in handling the waste at the proposed facility.
(6)
That the incineration facility is compatible with an integrated county long-range solid waste management plan, taking into account alternative methods of management such as recycling.
(7)
That the applicant has a valid contract with the operator of a state licensed landfill for the disposal of the projected ash production of the incineration facility for a three-year period.
(i)
At its next scheduled meeting, the board of commissioners shall make its decision to grant the permit, deny it, or grant it with specified conditions.
(j)
A permit shall be valid for no more than 24 months from the date it is granted by the board of commissioners unless the applicant begins construction of the facility prior to the expiration of the permit and continues to operate the facility according to specified conditions.
(Res. of 5-12-92, § VII)
Sec. 74-55. - Air curtain destructor procedure.
(a)
Any person wishing to construct and operate an air curtain destructor, the use of which shall be solely for disposal of the operator's own wood waste, shall apply for a permit from the county. The application to the county shall be a copy of the completed EPD application for solid waste handling permit. The application shall be accompanied by a nonrefundable fee of $250.00. Application should be made to the county planning department.
(b)
A public hearing on the application will be scheduled before the board of commissioners. The county will notify by mail all property owners within 500 feet of the site of the proposed air curtain destructor of the date, time and location of the public hearing.
(Res. of 5-12-92, § XI)
Secs. 74-56—74-70. - Reserved.
_____
DIVISION 3. - EMISSION CONTROL

Sec. 74-71. - Control of emissions for principal use incinerator and/or biomedical use incinerators.
(a)
Emissions from all principal use incinerator facilities shall not cause any of the following ambient levels in milligrams per cubic meter at 77 degrees Fahrenheit and 29.92 inches of mercury (except for asbestos) to be exceeded beyond 300 feet of the incinerator stack.
EXPAND
24 hour 1 hour 15 minute
No. Emission  Annual
carcinogens Chronic
toxicants Acute systemic
toxicants Acute
irritants
1 acetaldehyde 27
2 acetic acid 3.7
3 acrolein 0.08
4 ammonia 2.7
5 aniline 1
6 arsenic/compounds 2.3 × 10 -7
7 asbestos 2.8 × 10 -11
fibers/ml
8 aziridine 0.006
9 benzidine/salts 1.5 ×10 -5
10 benzo(a)pyrene 3.3 × 10 -5
11 benzyl chloride 0.5
12 beryllium 4.1 × 10 -6
13 beryllium chloride 4.1 × 10 -6
14 beryllium fluoride 4.1 × 10 -6
15 beryllium nitrate 4.1 × 10 -6
16 bis-chloromethyl ether 3.7 × 10 -7
17 bromide 0.2
18 cadmium 5.5 × 10 -6
19 cadmium acetate 5.5 × 10 -6
20 cadmium bromide 5.5 × 10 -6
21 carbon disulfide 0.186
22 chlorine 0.0375 0.9
23 chlorobenzene 2.2
24 chloroprene 0.44 3.5
25 cresol 2.2
26 p-dichlorobenzene 66
27 dichlorodifluo-
romethane 248
28 dichlorofluoromethane 0.5
29 di(2-ethylhexyl) phthalate 0.03
30 dimethyl sulfate 0.003
31 1,4-dioxane 0.56
32 epichlorohydrine 8.3 × 10 -2
33 ethyl acetate 140
34 ethylenediamine 0.3 2.5
35 ethylene dibromide 4.0 × 10 -4
36 ethylene dichloride 3.8 × 10 -3
37 ethylene glycol
monoethyl ether 0.12 1.9
38 ethyl mercaptan 0.1
39 fluorides 0.016 0.25
40 formaldehyde 0.15
41 hexachlorocyclo-
pentadiene 0.0006 0.01
42 hexachlorodibenzo-
p-dioxin 7.6 × 10 -8
43 n-hexane 1.1
44 hexane isomers except n-hexane 360
45 hydrazine 0.0006
46 hydrogen chloride 0.7
47 hydrogen cyanide 0.14 1.1
48 hydrogen fluoride 0.03 0.25
49 hydrogen sulfide 2.1
50 maleic anhydride 0.012 0.1
51 manganese & compounds 0.031
52 manganese cyclopentadienyltricarbonyl 0.0006
53 manganese tetroxide 0.0062
54 mercury, alkyl 0.00006
55 mercury, aryl and
inorganic compounds 0.0006
56 mercury, vapor 0.0006
57 methyl chloroform 12 245
58 methyl ethyl ketone 3.7 88.5
59 methyl isobutyl ketone 2.56 30
60 methyl mercaptan 0.05
61 nickel metal 6.0 ×10 -3
62 nickel carbonyl 6.0 ×10 -4
63 nickel subsulfide 2.1 × 10 -6
64 nickel, soluble compounds as nickel 6.0 ×10 -4
65 nitric acid 1
66 nitrobenzene 0.06 0.5
67 N-nitrosodimethylamine 5.0 × 10 -5
68 pentachlorophenol 0.003 0.025
69 phenol 0.95
70 phosgene 0.0025
71 phosphine 0.13
72 polychlorinated biphenyls 8.3 × 10 -5
73 styrene 1.34 42.5
74 sulfuric acid 0.012 0.1
75 1.1.1.2-tyetrachloro-
2.2-difluoroethane 52
76 1.1.2.2-tetrachloro-
2.2-difluoroethane 52
77 1.1.1.2-tetrachloro-
ethane 6.3 × 10 -3
78 toluene 4.7 56
79 toluene-
2.4-diisocyanate 0.0005 0.015
80 trichlorofluoromethane 560
81 1.1.2-trichloro-
1.2.2-trifluoroethane 950
82 vinyl chloride 3.8 × 10 -4
83 vinylidene chloride 0.12
84 xylene 2.7
  (b)
After December 1, 1990, emissions from all principal use incinerator facilities shall not cause any of the following ambient levels and milligrams per cubic meter at 77 degrees Fahrenheit and 29.92 inches of mercury to be exceeded beyond 300 feet of the incinerator stack.
EXPAND
1 acrylonitrile 1.5 × 10 -4
2 ammonium chromate 8.3 × 10 -8
3 ammonium dichromate 8.3 × 10 -8
4 benzene 1.2 × 10 -4
5 1.3-butadiene 1.7 × 10 -4
6 calcium chromate 8.3 × 10 -8
7 carbon tetrachloride 6.7 × 10 -3
8 chloroform 4.3 × 10 -3
9 chromic acid 8.3 × 10 -8
10 chromium (IV) 8.3 × 10 -8
11 ethylene oxide 2.7 × 10 -5
12 lithium chromate 8.3 × 10 -8
13 methylene chloride 2.4 × 10 -2
14 perchloroethylene 1.9 × 10 -1
15 potassium chromate 8.3 × 10 -8
16 potassium dichromate 8.3 × 10 -8
17 sodium chromate 8.3 × 10 -8
18 sodium dichromate 8.3 × 10 -8
19 strontium chromate 8.3 × 10 -8
20 tetrachlorodibenzo-p-dioxin 3.0 × 10 -9
21 trichloroethylene 5.9 × 10 -2
  (c)
Ambient air concentrations shall be determined by using appropriate Environmental Protection Agency dispersion modeling procedures or other methods specified by the EQB. Ambient air concentrations are to be evaluated for annual period over a calendar year, 24-hour periods from midnight to midnight, for one-hour periods beginning on the hour, and for 30-minute periods beginning on the hour 30 minutes after the hour. The identification of each toxic air pollutant emitted and its corresponding emission rate shall be determined using mass balancing analysis, source testing or other methods acceptable to the EQB.
(d)
For principal use incinerator facilities the emission of hydrogen chloride shall not exceed four pounds per hour unless the emission is reduced by at least 99 percent by weight and mercury shall not exceed one pound per 24-hour period.
(e)
Special requirements for principal use biomedical incineration facility:
(1)
No person shall operate a principal use biomedical incineration facility unless:
a.
The dioxin emissions have been reduced by 99 percent or more of the uncontrolled emissions.
b.
The dioxin emissions have been reduced to 10 nanagrams or less per kilogram of waste burned.
(2)
For the purposes of demonstrating compliance with this subsection, the owner or operator of a principal use biomedical waste incineration facility shall conduct a minimum of two annual source tests for the dioxins stack emissions using test method approved by the State of California Air Resources Board and a minimum of three sampling runs shall be conducted for the method. Annual source tests shall be conducted until at least two consecutive tests demonstrate compliance, at which time the frequency of future source tests is at the discretion of the EQB. For purposes of determining compliance with subsection (e)(1)a of this section, emissions shall be sampled simultaneously from the flue at the location where all the combustion is complete, but prior to the control equipment, and from the stack during source testing. For the purposes of determining compliance with subsection (e)(1)b of this section, the source testing shall be conducted at the stack. The information regarding the composition (moisture content, and the amount of the total waste that is infectious, pathological, hazardous or radioactive) and feed rate of the fuel charge during the source test shall be provided with the test results. The EQB can require additional necessary information regarding the composition of the waste. Source testing shall be conducted at the maximum waste firing capacity (plus or minus ten percent) allowed by the permit. A copy of all source test results conducted for purposes of demonstrating compliance with this rule shall be provided to the EQB. The EQB may in its discretion prescribe the testing company performing such test and may prescribe the time for performance of the test without advance notice to the owner or operator.
(3)
No person shall operate a principal use biomedical waste incinerator unless such individual who operates or maintains the incinerator obtains a certificate of training in biomedical waste incinerators issued by the American Society of Mechanical Engineers within nine months of the commencement of the training program. Copies of the training certificates for the operators and maintenance engineers shall be submitted to the EQB and shall be available for inspection at the facility along with the permit to operate.
(Res. of 5-12-92, § VIII)
Secs. 74-72—74-90. - Reserved.
DIVISION 4. - TRANSPORTATION AND HANDLING OF BIOMEDICAL WASTE[3]

Footnotes:
--- (3) ---
Cross reference— Emergency services, ch. 38.

Sec. 74-91. - Special procedures required.
No biomedical waste shall, for purposes of disposal in the county, be transported into the county or from place to place within the county except under the following conditions:
(1)
All transports shall be in refrigerated trucks maintaining a temperature of not more than 40 degrees Fahrenheit.
(2)
All trucks transporting medical waste shall be used exclusively for the transportation of medical waste and each truck shall have placed upon it at a prominent location a sign reading as follows:
MEDICAL WASTE ONLY—
NOT FOR TRANSPORTATION OF
OTHER MATERIALS.
Such sign shall be in bright yellow letters readily discerned from a distance of 100 feet.
(3)
All biomedical waste shall be transported in leakproof, punctureproof boxes of the following specifications:
Die cut body with lid attached. Blank sheet size 62 7/8 × 74 1/8 finished product size—inside dimensions—18×19×23.
Board—400 double wall B/C flute, board combination 60/40/69/40/69 wet strength medium, water proof adhesive. Board is to be curtain coated with wax on both sides. All mediums to be wax impregnated. Box must have leakproof corners. Box will be self-locking outer liner of box to be of oyster white linerboard.
Box to be printed four panels, one color. Print to include appropriate information on the contents and handling of the material contained in carton.
Liner for above carton. Blank size—39 13/16 × 74 5/8 . No joint scored sheet to fit above carton to further insure that it is leakproof. Board—400 double wall B/C flute, board combination 69/40/69/40/69 wet strength medium, water proof adhesive. Board to be curtain coated with wax on both sides. All mediums to be wax impregnated.
(4)
No biomedical waste shall be transported for purposes of disposal into the county in plastic bags having colorants which contain cadmium, arsenic, mercury, antimony, lead or selenium. The EQB may require random samplings of plastic bag material from any principal use biomedical incinerator facility to ensure compliance with this section. The EQB may also require any owner or operator of a principal use biomedical waste incinerator to demonstrate that it has taken proper precautions and made proper arrangements with biomedical waste generators and handlers to ensure compliance with this section.
(5)
No principal use biomedical waste incinerator may be operated in the county unless provisions have been made for storage of the waste in refrigerated facilities in accordance with state regulations. Such refrigerated storage facilities shall be served with a backup system of power generation preventing interruption by reason of electrical failure. The applicant shall show by calculation that adequate refrigerated space is provided for at least two days' volume of medical waste at the average rate of delivery.
(6)
No principal use biomedical waste incinerator facility shall be operated in the county unless the facility shall have in operation a screening device which automatically removes unburned particles or globules of a size of two centimeters or more and returns them to the incineration process.
(7)
Each owner or operator of a principal use biomedical incinerator in the county shall, at such time as may be determined by the EQB, at least two times per year obtain from a EQB approved engineering firm, a putrescible matter determination test of the incinerator ash in accordance with Method A prescribed by the American Society of Mechanical Engineers Performance Test Codes, Paragraph 7.3. Should any test show that putrescible material is not being properly incinerated, the license for such incinerator shall be suspended until such time as the owner or operator thereof shall demonstrate to the EQB that appropriate corrective measures have been taken.
(8)
No principal use biomedical waste incinerator facility shall be operated in the county unless the incinerator ash produced by the facility contains no more than six percent by dry weight of combustible material as demonstrated at regular intervals of no more than six months apart. The incinerator ash shall be sampled and tested according to standard methods published by the American Society of Mechanical Engineers (PTC33) and American Society of Testing Materials.
(9)
The transportation of biomedical waste between medical facilities under one ownership for disposal purposes shall be exempt from the provisions of this section provided that the total biomedical waste disposal by the owner of the facilities does not exceed 125 tons per year.
(Res. of 5-12-92, § IX)
