Chapter 54 - LIBRARY[1]
Footnotes:
--- (1) ---
Cross reference— Parks and recreation, ch. 66.
State Law reference— Local and regional public libraries, O.C.G.A. § 20-5-20 et seq.

ARTICLE I. - IN GENERAL

Secs. 54-1—54-25. - Reserved.
ARTICLE II. - THOMAS COUNTY PUBLIC LIBRARY
DIVISION 1. - GENERALLY

Sec. 54-26. - Headquarters.
The headquarters for the library shall be located in Thomasville, Georgia.
(Res. of 4-13-93, § 1)
Sec. 54-27. - Purpose.
The purpose of the library shall be to extend public library service to all citizens, adult and juvenile, in the county and to effectively assemble, house, administer and disseminate library materials and information for the educational, cultural, recreational and aesthetic enjoyment of the citizens of the county.
(Res. of 4-13-93, § 2)
Secs. 54-28—54-45. - Reserved.
DIVISION 2. - PUBLIC LIBRARY BOARD

Sec. 54-46. - Composition; appointments.
The governing body of the library shall consist of a total of nine members and four ex officio members appointed by the appointing body of the library system which consists of the following:
(1)
Governing board:
a.
Two members, appointed by a majority vote of the small town mayors with libraries in their towns.
b.
Three members, appointed by the City of Thomasville, and these individuals may reside anywhere in the county.
c.
Four members, appointed by the county board of commissioners.
(2)
Nonvoting ex officio members:
a.
One member, the mayor of the City of Thomasville or his appointee.
b.
One member, the chairman of the county board of commissioners or his appointee.
c.
One member, the Thomasville Board of Education Chairman or his appointee.
d.
One member, the county board of education chairman or his appointee.
(Res. of 4-13-93, § 3)
Sec. 54-47. - Terms of office.
(a)
The terms of office shall be three years with each appointing body reserving the right to review their recommended representative annually and to resubmit a list of new candidates at their discretion. All terms of office shall coincide with the library's fiscal year (July—June). Terms for positions will be staggered.
(b)
Initial positions will be filled as described so that year one positions serve one year, year two positions service two years, and year three positions serve three years. After these initial appointments, terms shall continue for three years and be staggered. No member may serve on the board for more than two successive terms.
(Res. of 4-13-93, § 4)
Sec. 54-48. - Compensation.
Board members shall receive no compensation but may be reimbursed for any reasonable and necessary expenses incurred in the performance of library business. Membership dues or fees for individual memberships in state, regional and national library associations may be paid from operating funds.
(Res. of 4-13-93, § 5)
Sec. 54-49. - Vacancies.
Vacancies shall be filled in the same manner as appointments are made. If a vacancy occurs prior to the expiration of a member's term, the new appointee shall complete the unexpired term.
(Res. of 4-13-93, § 6)
Sec. 54-50. - Terminations.
If a member is absent for three consecutive meetings, he will be terminated from the board and the appointing authority will appoint a replacement.
(Res. of 4-13-93, § 7)
Sec. 54-51. - Officers; committees.
(a)
The officers of the governing board shall be a chairman, a vice-chairman, and a secretary elected from those serving on the board. These officers shall perform the duties prescribed by the pleasure of the appointing authority.
(b)
Nominations shall be made by a committee of three board members appointed by the chairman of the board. The chairman and/or the library director may serve as one of the three members of the nominating committee.
(c)
Standing committees shall consist of the finance committee, the building and grounds committee, the personnel committee and the constitution and bylaws committee. Other committees shall be appointed by the chairman, as needed.
(d)
The officers shall be elected at the July meeting to serve for one year or until their successors are elected, and their terms of office shall begin at the close of the meeting at which they are elected. An officer is elected for a one-year term and may not succeed himself more than one additional term.
(e)
The treasurer, the director and any members of the staff authorized to handle library funds shall be bonded for an amount commensurate with the amount of funds handled, determined by board and entered in the minutes. A copy of the bond shall be filed with the division of public library services of the state department of education.
(Res. of 4-13-93, § 8)
