ARTICLE V. - R-1 SINGLE-FAMILY RESIDENTIAL DISTRICT

Section 5.01. - Statement of purpose.
The [R-1] single-family residential district is established as a district in which the principal use of land is for conventional single-family detached dwellings. For the single-family residential district, in promoting the general purpose of this ordinance, the specific intent of this section [article] is:
A.
To encourage the construction of, and the continued use of the land for conventional single-family dwellings.
B.
To discourage any land use development within the district which would generate traffic on minor or local streets, other than normal traffic to serve the residences on those streets.
Section 5.02. - Permitted uses.
[Permitted uses in the R-1 district shall include the following:]
A.
Single-family detached dwellings, except mobile homes, manufactured homes and modular homes.
B.
Accessory buildings or uses customarily incidental to any of the permitted uses, when located on the same lot and not involving any business, profession, trade or occupation, provided further, that all accessory buildings shall conform and be located as required in section 4.09.
C.
Off-street parking and loading in accordance with the requirements of article XVII of this ordinance.
(Ord. No. 2004-12, ยง 1, 7-19-2004)
Section 5.03. - Conditional uses permitted after special review by the planning commission and approved by the city council (see section 4.17).
[Conditional uses permitted in the R-1 district after special review by the planning commission and approval by the city council shall include the following:]
A.
Churches, provided that the proposed site for a church is not less than one acre, a complete site development sketch plan is submitted with the application and provision is made for off-street parking.
B.
Public and private schools.
C.
Recreational developments, including, but not limited to, private or public lakes, swimming pools, golf courses or driving ranges, or other recreational developments, provided that a comprehensive development plan for the area is submitted to the planning commission and includes the location of the site on maps of not less than one inch equals 400 feet scale, the location and function of all buildings, and modifications of the natural landscape, the location and surface treatment of all roadways, appropriate details of drinking water of sanitary facilities, plus a time schedule.
D.
Cemeteries, provided that a complete site development sketch plan is submitted with the application.
E.
Clubs and fraternal organizations not operating for profit, provided that:
1.
The buildings are not placed closer than 50 feet to any property lines; and
2.
There is a planted buffer strip at least ten feet wide along the side and rear lot lines.
F.
Public buildings, structures or land uses.
G.
Hospitals, clinics, sanitariums, nursing homes, rest homes, residences for aged persons, orphanages, group homes and half-way homes.
H.
Home occupations. Home occupations as restricted and defined in article II.
I.
Nursery schools, kindergartens or day care facilities, provided that all state licensing requirements are met.
J.
Other uses similar to the above and compatible with the local neighborhood and environment as interpreted by the planning commission and approved by the city council.
K.
All radio, cellular phone, or similar transmission/receiving towers.
Section 5.04. - Area, height, and setback requirements.
The R-1 single-family residential district includes two categories: R-1 (15,000) and R-1 (7,500). Area, height and setback requirements for each category shall be in accordance with the schedule of regulations, [as set forth in] article XIX.
