ARTICLE XII. - C-2 [GENERAL] COMMERCIAL (HIGHWAY) [DISTRICT][5]

Footnotes:
--- (5) ---
Cross reference— Businesses, ch. 26.

Section 12.01. - Statement of purpose.
The purpose of the [C-2] general commercial district is to provide for and encourage area for development, which will include a wide variety of sales and services that will both accommodate the needs of the city. Adequate off-street parking, adequate building setbacks and reduction of traffic hazards are prime city objectives for development in these business districts.
Section 12.02. - Permitted uses.
modified
[Permitted uses in the C-2 district shall include the following:]
A.
All permitted uses in the C-1 district.
B.
Any retail or service establishment.
C.
Bottling and canning plants.
D.
Wholesale stores, storage buildings, warehouses, miniwarehouses, distributing plants, freezers and lockers.
E.
Commercial greenhouses and nurseries.
F.
Small fabrication and manufacturing shops, when employing not more than 25 employees in the office and manufacturing operations, such as small tool and die shops, and dental, surgical, and optical goods manufacturing.
G.
Reserved.
( Ord. No. 2021-03 § IV, 4-5-2021)
Section 12.03. - Conditional uses.
[Conditional uses permitted in the C-2 district shall include the following:]
A.
Churches, provided that the proposed site for a church is not less than one acre, a complete site development sketch is submitted with the application and provision is made for off-street parking.
B.
Public and private schools.
C.
Recreational developments, including, but not limited to, private or public lakes, swimming pools, golf courses or driving ranges, or other recreational developments, provided that a comprehensive development plan for the area is submitted to the planning commission and includes the location of the site of maps, of not less than one inch equals 400 feet scale, the location and function of all buildings, and modifications of the natural landscape, the location and surface treatment of all roadways, appropriate details of drinking water of sanitary facilities, plus a time schedule.
D.
Cemeteries, provided that a complete site development sketch is submitted with the application.
E.
Nightclubs and lounges, as well as clubs and fraternal organizations not operating for profit, provided that:
1.
The buildings are not placed closer than 50 feet to any property lines; and
2.
There is a planted buffer strip at least ten feet wide along the side and rear lot lines.
F.
Public buildings, structures or land uses.
G.
Hospitals, clinics, sanitariums, nursing homes, rest homes, residences for aged persons and orphanages, group homes and half-way homes.
H.
Nursery schools, kindergartens or day care facilities, provided that all state licensing requirements are met.
I.
Boardinghomes.
J.
All radio, cellular phone, or similar transmission/receiving towers and radio studios.
K.
Travel trailer parks (see article IX).
L.
Adult businesses. [6]
Footnotes:
--- (6) ---
All adult entertainment establishments shall comply with applicable city codes pursuant to these businesses.

Section 12.04 - Protective screening.
Protective screening for C-2 districts adjacent to or near residential districts shall be in compliance with the regulations set forth in section 4.11.
(Ord. No. 2004-12, § 1, 7-12-2004)
Section 12.05. - Signs.
(See article XVIII.)
(Ord. No. 2004-12, § 1, 7-12-2004)
Section 12.06. - Off-street parking.
(See article XVII.)
(Ord. No. 2004-12, § 1, 7-12-2004)
Section 12.07. - Area, height and setback requirements.
(See article XIX.)
(Ord. No. 2004-12, § 1, 7-12-2004)
