ARTICLE VIII. - PUBLIC FACILITIES AUTHORITY[2]

Footnotes:
--- (2) ---
Editor's note— House Bill 533 , §§ 1—22, passed May 3, 2021, added provisions that were not specifically amendatory. At the editor's discretion and at the direction of the city, said provisions have been added as Article VIII, §§ 8.10—8.24.

Section 8.10. - Short title.
new
This Act shall be known and may be cited as the "City of Sylvester Public Facilities Authority Act."
( H.B. 533 , § 1, 5-3-2021)
Section 8.11. - City of Sylvester Public Facilities Authority; creation.
new
(a)
There is hereby created a public body corporate and politic to be known as the "City of Sylvester Public Facilities Authority," which shall be deemed to be a political subdivision of the state and a public corporation, and by that name, style, and title said body may contract and be contracted with, sue and be sued, implead and be impleaded, and complain and defend in all courts of law and equity. The authority shall have perpetual existence.
(b)
The authority shall consist of five members who shall be appointed by the city council of the City of Sylvester. The city manager of the City of Sylvester shall serve as an ex officio member of the authority and shall be the secretary of the authority. All appointed members shall be appointed for a term of one year until successors are appointed and qualified. Thereafter, all appointments shall be made annually at the expiration of each one-year term and the previous year's appointees shall continue to serve until their successors are appointed and qualified. Immediately after being appointed, the members of the authority shall enter upon their duties. To be eligible for appointment as a member of the authority, a person shall be at least 21 years of age, shall be a resident of the city for at least six months prior to the date of his or her appointment and shall not have been convicted of a felony. Any member of the authority may be selected and appointed to succeed himself or herself.
(c)
The members of the authority shall not be compensated for their services; provided, however, that the members shall be reimbursed for their actual expenses necessarily incurred in the performance of their duties.
(d)
The members of the authority shall elect one of their number as chairperson and another as a vice chairperson. The members of the authority may also elect a treasurer, who need not be a member of the authority. The secretary may also serve as treasurer. If the treasurer is not a member of the authority, such officer shall have no voting rights. Except for the secretary, each of such officers shall serve for a period of one year and until their successors are duly elected and qualified.
(e)
Three members of the authority shall constitute a quorum. No vacancy on the authority shall impair the right of the quorum to exercise all of the rights and perform all of the duties of the authority.
(f)
Any member of the authority can be removed by a majority vote of the city council. The city council shall fill such vacancy within three months of removal of any member. If a member resigns or is unable to diligently preform his or her duties, the city council shall declare the seat vacant and shall fill such vacancy within three months' time of resignation.
( H.B. 533 , § 2, 5-3-2021)
Section 8.12. - Purpose of the authority; scope of operations.
new
Without limiting the generality of any provision of this Act, the general purpose of the authority is declared to be that of providing buildings, facilities, equipment, and certain services for corporate purposes for the citizens of the city located both within and outside the city.
( H.B. 533 , § 3, 5-3-2021)
Section 8.13. - Definitions.
new
As used in this Act, the term:
(1)
"Authority" means the City of Sylvester Public Facilities Authority created by this Act.
(2)
"City" means the City of Sylvester, Georgia.
(3)
"Costs of the project" means and embraces the cost of construction; the cost of all lands, properties, rights, easements, and franchises acquired; the cost of all machinery and equipment; financing charges; interest prior to and during construction and for six months after completion of construction; the cost of engineering, architectural, fiscal agents' expenses, legal expenses, plans and specifications, and other expenses necessary or incidental to determining the feasibility or practicability of the project; administrative expenses and such other expenses as may be necessary or incidental to the financing authorized in this Act; working capital; and all other costs necessary to acquire, construct, add to, extend, improve, equip, operate, and maintain the project.
(4)
"Project" means all buildings, facilities, services, and equipment necessary or convenient for the efficient operation of the city or any department, agency, division, commission, or utility system thereof, permitted by the Revenue Bond Law, provided that such services shall not include electric power generation and transmission services.
(5)
"Revenue Bond Law" means the Revenue Bond Law of the State of Georgia (codified in Article 3 of Chapter 82 of Title 36 of the O.C.G.A., as amended), or any other similar law hereinafter enacted.
(6)
"Revenue bonds" means revenue bonds authorized to be issued pursuant to this Act.
(7)
"Self-liquidating" means any project which the revenues and earnings to be derived by the authority therefrom, including, but not limited to, any contractual payments with governmental or private entities, and all properties used, leased, and sold in connection herewith, together with any grants and any other available funds, will be sufficient to pay the costs of operating, maintaining, and repairing the project and to pay the principal and interest on the revenue bonds or other obligations which may be issued for the purpose of paying the costs of the project.
(8)
"State" means the State of Georgia.
( H.B. 533 , § 4, 5-3-2021)
Section 8.14. - Powers.
new
The authority shall have the power:
(1)
To have a seal and alter the same at its pleasure;
(2)
To acquire by purchase, lease, gift, condemnation, or otherwise, and with or without consideration, to hold, operate, maintain, lease, and dispose of real and personal property of every kind and character for its corporate purposes or on behalf of the city;
(3)
To acquire in its own name by purchase, on such terms and conditions and in such manner as it may deem proper, or by condemnation in accordance with the provisions of any and all existing laws applicable to the condemnation of property for public use, real property or rights or easements therein, or franchises necessary or convenient for its corporate purposes, and to use the same so long as its corporate existence shall continue, and to lease or make contracts with respect to the use of or disposition of the same in any manner it deems to the best advantage of the authority, the authority being under no obligation to accept and pay for any property condemned under this Act, except from the funds provided under the authority of this Act, and in any proceedings to condemn, such orders may be made by the court having jurisdiction of the suit, action, or proceedings as may be just to the authority and to the owners of the property to be condemned, and no property shall be acquired under the provisions of this Act upon which any lien or encumbrance exists, unless at the time such property is so acquired a sufficient sum of money is to be deposited in trust to pay and redeem the fair value of such lien or encumbrance;
(4)
To acquire, construct, add to, extend, improve, equip, operate, maintain, lease, and dispose of projects anywhere within Worth County;
(5)
To execute contracts, leases, installment sale agreements, and other agreements and instruments necessary or convenient in connection with the acquisition, construction, addition, extension, improvement, equipping, operation, maintenance, disposition, or financing of a project;
(6)
To appoint, select, and employ officers, agents, and employees, including, but not limited to, engineering, architectural, and construction experts; fiscal agents; and attorneys; and to fix their respective compensations;
(7)
To pay the costs of the project with the proceeds of revenue bonds, certificates of participation, notes, or other forms of obligations issued by the authority or from any grant or contribution from the United States of America or any agency or instrumentality thereof or from the state or any agency, instrumentality, municipality, or political subdivision thereof, from any private foundation or other private source or from any other source whatsoever;
(8)
To pledge to the payment of revenue bonds, certificates of participation, notes, and other forms of obligations issued by the authority any and all revenues and properties of the authority, both real and personal;
(9)
To accept loans or grants of money or materials or property of any kind from the United States of America or any agency or instrumentality thereof, upon such terms and conditions as the United States of America or such agency or instrumentality may require;
(10)
To accept loans or grants of money or materials or property of any kind from the state or any agency, instrumentality, municipality, or political subdivision thereof, upon such terms and conditions as the state or such agency, instrumentality, municipality, or political subdivision may require;
(11)
To accept loans or grants of money or materials or property of any kind from any public or private foundation or any other private source upon such terms and conditions as such public or private foundation or other private source may require;
(12)
To borrow money for any of its corporate purposes and to issue or execute revenue bonds, certificates of participation, notes, and other forms of obligations, deeds to secure debt, security agreements, and such other instruments as may be necessary or convenient to evidence and secure such borrowing;
(13)
To adopt, alter, or repeal its own bylaws, rules, and regulations governing the manner in which its business is transacted;
(14)
To prescribe rules, regulations, service policies, and procedures for the operation of any project; and
(15)
To do all things necessary or convenient to carry out the powers expressly given in this Act.
( H.B. 533 , § 5, 5-3-2021)
Section 8.15. - Revenue bonds.
new
The authority shall have power and is hereby authorized to provide by resolution for the issuance of revenue bonds for the purpose of paying all or any part of the costs of the project and for the purpose of refunding revenue bonds or other obligations previously issued. The principal of and interest on such revenue bonds shall be payable solely from the revenues and properties pledged to the payment of such revenue bonds. The revenue bonds issued by the authority shall contain such terms as the authority shall determine are in the best interest of the authority; provided, however, that no revenue bonds shall have a maturity exceeding 40 years.
( H.B. 533 , § 6, 5-3-2021)
Section 8.16. - Same; signatures; seal.
new
All such revenue bonds shall bear the manual or facsimile signature of the chairperson or vice-chairperson of the authority, the attesting manual or facsimile signature of the secretary or secretary-treasurer of the authority, and the official seal of the authority shall be impressed or imprinted thereon. In case any officer whose signature shall appear on any revenue bond shall cease to be such officer before the delivery of such revenue bond, such signature shall nevertheless be valid and sufficient for all purposes, the same as if that person had remained in office until such delivery.
( H.B. 533 , § 7, 5-3-2021)
Section 8.17. - Same; negotiability; exemption from taxation.
new
All revenue bonds shall have and are hereby declared to have all the qualities and incidents of negotiable instruments under the laws of the state. All revenue bonds, their transfer, and the income therefrom shall be exempt from all taxation within the state as provided by the Revenue Bond Law.
( H.B. 533 , § 8, 5-3-2021)
Section 8.18. - Same; conditions precedent to issuance.
new
The authority shall adopt a resolution authorizing the issuance of the revenue bonds. In the resolution, the authority shall determine that the project financed or refinanced with the proceeds of the revenue bonds is self-liquidating. Revenue bonds may be issued without any other proceedings or the happening of any other conditions or things other than those proceedings, conditions, and things which are specified or required by this Act. Any resolution providing for the issuance of revenue bonds under the provisions of this Act shall become effective immediately upon its adoption and need not be published or posted, and any such resolution may be adopted at any regular or special meeting of the authority by a majority of its members.
( H.B. 533 , § 9, 5-3-2021)
Section 8.19. - Same; credit not pledged.
new
Revenue bonds shall not be deemed to constitute a debt of the state or the city nor a pledge of the faith and credit of the state or the city. Revenue bonds shall be payable solely from the revenues and properties pledged to the payment of such revenue bonds. The issuance of revenue bonds shall not directly, indirectly, or contingently obligate the state or the city to levy or to pledge any form of taxation whatsoever for the payment of such revenue bonds or to make any appropriation for their payment. All revenue bonds shall contain recitals on their face covering substantially the foregoing provisions of this section. Notwithstanding the foregoing provisions, this Act shall not affect the ability of the authority and the city to enter into an intergovernmental contract pursuant to which the city agrees to pay amounts sufficient to pay operating charges and other costs of the authority or any project including, without limitation, the principal of and interest on revenue bonds, in consideration for services, facilities, or equipment of the authority.
( H.B. 533 , § 10, 5-3-2021)
Section 8.20. - Same; trust indenture as security.
new
In the discretion of the authority, any issuance of revenue bonds may be secured by a trust indenture by and between the authority and a corporate trustee, which may be any trust company or bank having the powers of a trust company within or without the state. Such trust indenture may contain such provisions for protecting and enforcing the rights and remedies of the bondholders as may be reasonable and proper and not in violation of law, including covenants setting forth the duties of the authority in relation to the acquisition and construction of the project, the maintenance, operation, repair, and insuring of the project, and the custody, safeguarding, and application of all moneys.
( H.B. 533 , § 11, 5-3-2021)
Section 8.21. - Same; trust indenture as security; remedies of bondholders.
new
Any holder of revenue bonds and the trustee under the trust indenture, if any, except to the extent the rights herein given may be restricted by resolution passed before the issuance of the revenue bonds or by the trust indenture, may, either at law or in equity, by suit, action, mandamus, or other proceedings, protect and enforce any and all rights it may have under the laws of the state, including specifically, but without limitation, the Revenue Bond Law, or granted hereunder or under such resolution or trust indenture, and may enforce and compel performance of all duties required by this Act or by such resolution or trust indenture to be performed by the authority or any officer thereof, including the fixing, charging, and collecting of revenues, fees, tolls, fines, and other charges for the use of the facilities and services furnished.
( H.B. 533 , § 12, 5-3-2021)
Section 8.22. - Same; validation.
new
Revenue bonds and the security therefor shall be issued, confirmed, and validated in accordance with the provisions of the Revenue Bond Law. The petition for validation shall also make the city party defendant to such action if the city has contracted with the authority for services or facilities relating to the project for which revenue bonds are to be issued and sought to be validated, and such defendant shall be required to show cause, if any exists, as to why such contract or contracts shall not be adjudicated as a part of the basis for the security for the payment of any such revenue bonds. The revenue bonds when validated, and the judgment of validation, shall be final and conclusive with respect to such revenue bonds and the security for the payment thereof and interest thereon and against the authority and all other defendants.
( H.B. 533 , § 13, 5-3-2021)
Section 8.23. - Same; interest of bondholders protected.
new
While any of the revenue bonds issued by the authority remain outstanding, the powers, duties, or existence of the authority or its officers, employees, or agents, shall not be diminished or impaired in any manner that will affect adversely the interests and rights of the holders of such revenue bonds, and no other entity, department, agency, or authority will be created which will compete with the authority to such an extent as to affect adversely the interest and rights of the holders of such revenue bonds. The provisions of this Act shall be for the benefit of the authority and the holders of any such revenue bonds under the provisions hereof shall constitute a contract with the holders of such revenue bonds.
( H.B. 533 , § 14, 5-3-2021)
Section 8.24. - Venue and jurisdiction.
new
Any action to protect or enforce any rights under the provisions of this Act or any suit or action against such authority shall be brought in the Superior Court of Worth County, Georgia, and any action pertaining to validation of any revenue bonds issued under the provisions of this Act shall likewise be brought in such court, which shall have exclusive, original jurisdiction of such actions.
( H.B. 533 , § 15, 5-3-2021)
Section 8.25. - Moneys received considered trust funds.
new
All moneys received pursuant to the authority of this Act, whether as proceeds from the sale of revenue bonds, as grants or other contributions, or as revenue, income, fees, and earnings, shall be deemed to be trust funds to be held and applied solely as provided in this Act.
( H.B. 533 , § 16, 5-3-2021)
Section 8.26. - Tort immunity.
new
To the extent permitted by law, the authority shall have the same immunity and exemption from liability for torts and negligence as the city. The officers, agents, and employees of the authority when in the performance of the work of the authority shall have the same immunity and exemption from liability for torts and negligence as the officers, agents, and employees of the city when in the performance of their public duties or work of the city.
( H.B. 533 , § 17, 5-3-2021)
Section 8.27. - Tax exemption.
new
To the extent permitted by and in accordance with the laws of the state, the income of the authority, the properties of the authority, both real and personal, and all revenue bonds, certificates of participation, notes, and other forms of obligations issued by the authority shall be exempt from all state and local taxes and special assessments of any kind.
( H.B. 533 , § 18, 5-3-2021)
Section 8.28. - Rates, charges, and revenues; use.
new
The authority is hereby authorized to prescribe and fix rates and to revise same from time to time and to collect revenues, tolls, fees, and charges for the services, facilities, and commodities furnished, and in anticipation of the collection of the revenues, to issue revenue bonds, certificates of participation, notes, or other types of obligations as herein provided to finance, in whole or in part, the costs of the project, and to pledge to the punctual payment of such revenue bonds or other obligations, all or any part of the revenues. Provided that nothing in this Act shall authorize the authority to set end user or customer rates or charges for any utility system operated by the City of Sylvester.
( H.B. 533 , § 19, 5-3-2021)
Section 8.29. - Effect on other governments.
new
This Act shall not and does not in any way take from the city or any political subdivision the authority to own, operate, and maintain public facilities or to issue revenue bonds as provided by the Revenue Bond Law.
( H.B. 533 , § 20, 5-3-2021)
Section 8.30. - Liberal construction of Act.
new
This Act being for the welfare of the city and various political subdivisions of the state and its inhabitants, shall be liberally construed to effect the purposes hereof.
( H.B. 533 , § 21, 5-3-2021)
Section 8.31. - Severability; effect of partial invalidity of Act.
new
The provisions of this Act are severable, and if any of its provisions shall be held unconstitutional by any court of competent jurisdiction, the decision of such court shall not affect or impair any of the remaining provisions.
( H.B. 533 , § 23, 5-3-2021)
