ARTICLE II. - MAYOR AND COUNCIL

Sec. 2-31. - General rules for conduct of business.
modified
The following general rules for the government of the mayor and council, and the orderly dispatch of business are hereby adopted:
Rule 1. Quorum. A quorum for business shall consist of two councilmembers and the mayor or other presiding officer.
Rule 2. Meetings. The mayor and council shall hold a regular meeting on the first and third Mondays in each month, commencing at 6:00 p.m., at the council chamber or such other place as may be designated on motion by the mayor and council, with the right to adjourn and continue any of such regular meetings to any other date and hour decided upon by the council; provided that any other date may be constituted a regular meeting day until further notice, but notice of such action must be given by one publication in a newspaper having a general circulation in the city, at least one day prior to the day set for such additional regular meetings. The mayor, or in his absence the mayor pro tem, may in his discretion, or upon the written request of at least two members of the council, call special or regular meetings.
Rule 3. Notice of meetings. The city clerk, or any member of the police force designated for that purpose, shall notify each member of council personally, or by leaving written summons at their most notorious place of abode, of the date and hour of each special or extra meeting. The mayor, each member of council and all city officials are charged with notice of the hour and date of each regular meeting.
Rule 4. Reading of minutes. The clerk shall read the minutes of the preceding meeting or meetings of the council at the subsequent regular meeting, in order that any clerical error or omission may be corrected or supplied. Such reading of the minutes may be omitted by unanimous consent of the councilmembers present.
Rule 5. Yea and nay vote. Whenever any member shall require it, the yeas and nays of the members present shall be entered on the minutes on any question taken.
Rule 6. Elections. It shall be necessary in all elections by the council that a majority of the vote of the members present shall be obtained before a candidate is elected.
Rule 7. Accounts.
Rule 8. Bids for public work.
Rule 9. New rules; amendment of rules. Any proposition to alter or amend any of the rules of council, or to make new ones, shall be offered at least one meeting previous to its adoption, and can thereafter be adopted only by two-thirds of the members of the council present agreeing to such proposition.
Rule 10. Business before or at extra or special meeting. The summons or notice of all extra or special meetings of the mayor and council shall express the cause thereof, and no business shall be brought before the council at any extra meeting which is not set forth in the summons or notice, unless a vote of two-thirds of the members of the council present shall determine otherwise.
Rule 11. Meetings to be public. The doors of the council chamber shall on all occasions during the sittings or meetings of the council be kept open to the public, and shall only be closed upon a majority vote of the council resolving itself into a committee of the whole.
State Law reference— Open and public meetings, O.C.G.A. § 50-14-1 et seq.
Rule 12. Introduction and passage of ordinances and resolutions. Upon their introduction, all ordinances and resolutions shall be read the first time by the clerk. The question then shall be "Shall this ordinance or resolution be committed or filed." As desired, the ordinance or resolution shall be either committed to the proper committee, or filed until its second reading, unless unanimous consent (where same is permissible) is requested or given for the immediate second reading of such ordinances or resolutions, as to which the question shall be upon the passage of the ordinance or resolution and put as follows: "All in favor of the passage will say aye, and all opposed, no." After a resolution or ordinance has been referred to a committee, and such committee has reported on the resolution or ordinance, the question shall be first, upon agreeing to the report of the committee, "All who favor the report of the committee, say aye, all opposed, say no," after which the question shall be upon the passage of the ordinance or resolution.
Rule 13. Presiding officer vacating chair. When desirous of making a motion or debating a question, the mayor or other presiding officer shall appoint the mayor pro tem or, in his absence, a member of the council to preside.
Rule 14. Councilmembers as sureties. The mayor and council shall not accept any bond provided to be given to the city upon which a member of the council is surety.
Rule 15. Suspension of rules. The operation of any of the general rules of the council may be dispensed with by unanimous consent of the members present.
(Code 1965, § 2-21; Ord. No. 2021-05 , 7-19-2021)
Sec. 2-32. - Rules of order; debate limited; filling in amounts and dates.
(a)
Rules of order. In the conduct of meetings of the mayor and council, the provisions of Robert's Rules of Order, Newly Revised, governing parliamentary practice and procedure shall govern.
(b)
Debate limited. No member of the council shall speak longer than 20 minutes, or more than twice on any question.
(c)
Filling in amounts and dates. In filling in blanks representing amounts and dates, the largest sum and the longest time shall be put first.
(Code 1965, § 2-22)
Sec. 2-33. - Order of business.
The order in which all business of and before the mayor and council shall be considered shall be as follows:
(1)
Reading of minutes.
(2)
Accounts.
(3)
Reports of committees.
(4)
Introduction of ordinances and resolutions and their first reading.
(5)
Petitions and applications.
(6)
Second reading of ordinances and resolutions and their passage.
(7)
Unfinished business.
(8)
New business.
(9)
Miscellaneous matters.
(Code 1965, § 2-23)
Sec. 2-34. - Impeachment of mayor or councilmember.
(a)
Grounds; vote required. The mayor or any member of the council who shall be guilty of malpractice in office, or any willful neglect or abuse of the powers and duties of such office, upon trial and conviction by a three-fourths vote of the whole body, the mayor voting except in case of his own impeachment, shall be dismissed from office. The trial shall be had and conducted as provided in this section.
(b)
Complaints. All complaints against the mayor or any member of the council shall be in writing, setting forth distinctly the cause of the complaint and giving the names of witnesses thereto, if any, shall be directed to the mayor and council, and shall be filed with the city clerk.
(c)
Procedure after complaint filed. Any person may file the complaint. Immediately upon receipt of the complaint the clerk shall notify the mayor, except in case of the mayor's impeachment, in which case the clerk shall notify the mayor pro tem, who shall call a meeting of the council. If at such meeting a majority of the council shall deem the complaint sufficient to authorize an investigation, they shall call a meeting for the trial of the member complained of, at the earliest date practicable.
(d)
Articles of impeachment. If a trial is ordered, it shall be the duty of the city attorney to draw articles of impeachment, based upon the complaint, which shall be filed with the city clerk at least five days prior to the date set for the trial. Upon receipt of the articles of impeachment it shall be the duty of the city clerk to attach to the articles of impeachment a notice directed to the party complained against, which notice shall specify the time and place of trial, and command the appearance of the accused. The notice and copy shall be served upon the accused by the chief of police or any police officer, at least two days before the date of trial.
(e)
Conduct of trial. The trial shall be conducted in the manner employed by the courts, both the mayor and the council and the accused having the right to introduce evidence and appear by counsel, it being the duty of the city attorney to act as prosecuting officer in such trials.
(f)
Verdict and judgment. The council shall render a verdict upon each article of impeachment, to be followed by the judgment, which shall be entered by the city attorney upon the original articles and signed by the mayor or other presiding officer. The verdict and judgment shall be spread upon the minutes of the mayor and council.
(g)
Subpoenas. It shall be the duty of the city clerk, on application, to issue under his seal subpoenas for witnesses, which shall be directed to the person desired, and shall state the time and place of trial; provided, however, that a verbal summons of any witness by any police officer shall be a valid summons, and it shall be the duty of the witness so summoned to appear. The mayor and council may compel attendance of witnesses by attachment and fine as in cases of contempt.
(Code 1965, § 2-25)
Sec. 2-35. - Powers and duties of mayor.
(a)
Generally. The mayor shall have general supervision of the affairs of the city. He shall exercise general executive authority in the execution of all ordinances and resolutions passed by the city council, and see that all laws and ordinances are enforced, and shall see that all officers of the city faithfully discharge the duties required of them. He shall preside at all meetings of council, and shall have full power and authority to enforce the rules of order as adopted by council.
(b)
Authority as judge. It shall be his duty also to preside in the municipal court in the absence of the judge and to try all offenders against city ordinances.
(c)
Penal warrants. When acting as judge he shall, upon application of any person legally made, or upon information of any officer of the city, issue his warrant for the apprehension of any and all offenders against the laws of the state within the city, or against the city ordinances, and he shall examine such offenders at such time as he may direct, and if the facts authorize it, he shall bind over the offender for his appearance before the state tribunal to answer an indictment for such offense.
(d)
Treasury warrants. It shall be the duty of the mayor to draw his warrant upon the city treasury for any and all appropriations made by the council, and for all amounts and sums of money which have been passed on and ordered by the council to be paid and for the payment of money from the treasury in all cases provided for by the ordinance. Such warrants shall be duly attested by the city clerk and, when properly receipted, shall be vouchers to the credit of the treasurer.
(e)
Annual report. It shall be the duty of the mayor at the end of the municipal year to make and publish, in a city newspaper, a general report of the condition of city affairs, with such suggestions as he may deem proper for the good of the city.
(Code 1965, § 2-26)
Sec. 2-36. - Powers and duties of mayor pro tem.
The mayor pro tem, in the absence or disability of the mayor for any cause whatsoever, shall be clothed with all the rights and powers, and charged with all the duties, of the mayor, the mayor pro tem to act fully in the place or stead of the mayor.
(Code 1965, § 2-27)
Sec. 2-37. - Authority of mayor as to city employees.
(a)
Supervision. The mayor shall possess a superintending power over all salaried officials, all appointees of council, and all other agents or employees of the city.
(b)
Action upon complaint. Upon any complaint against or for neglect of duty by such persons, he shall investigate the complaint, and if he deems it advisable or necessary, report the delinquent and the charge to the city council, and he shall also have the power to suspend any of such persons for any flagrant violation of duty rendering it necessary or advisable to take such steps, which suspension he shall report at the next regular meeting of the city council, or at an extra meeting called for that purpose, and the investigation or trial in the premises shall be conducted as provided for in this Code.
(Code 1965, § 2-43)
Sec. 2-38. - Compensation of mayor.
modified
The salary of the mayor shall be $1,200.00 per month.
(Code 1965, § 2-28; 2001 Ga. Laws (Act No. 128), page 4168, § 3; Ord. No. 2020-05 , 9-21-2020, eff. 1-1-2021)
State Law reference— Salary and compensation of members of governing authority, O.C.G.A. § 36-35-4.
Sec. 2-39. - Compensation of councilmembers.
modified
The compensation of the members of the council shall be $1,000.00 per month.
(Code 1965, § 2-29; 2001 Ga. Laws, (Act. No. 128), page 4168, § 3; Ord. No. 2020-05 , 9-21-2020, eff. 1-1-2021)
State Law reference— Salary and compensation of members of governing authority, O.C.G.A. § 36-35-4.
Sec. 2-40. - Weapons prohibited at meetings.
As used herein, the term "weapon" shall have the same meaning as set out in O.C.G.A. § 16-11-125.1.
As provided in O.C.G.A. § 16-11-127, and except as specifically exempted below, all individuals are prohibited from carrying or possessing a weapon at any meeting of the City of Sylvester City Council. This policy shall apply to all individuals, including city employees, officers, and council members. The restrictions contained herein shall also apply to all employees, including those employees that hold a Georgia weapons carry license.
In order to enforce the provisions contained herein, and pursuant to O.C.G.A. § 16-11-127(e)(1), ingress into any building in which a meeting of the City of Sylvester City Council will be held shall be restricted and screened by security personnel for the time period spanning 30 minutes prior to the meeting until 15 minutes following the conclusion of the meeting. At least one such of security personnel shall be a certified peace officer pursuant to O.C.G.A. tit. 35, ch. 8.
The restrictions contained herein shall not apply to the City of Sylvester Police Department or any city employee who is under the direct supervision of the Sylvester Police Chief.
(Ord. No. 2014-10, § 1(Exh. A), 11-17-2014)
Sec. 2-41. - Cost of living adjustments to compensation of mayor and councilmembers.
new
Whenever the state employees subject to compensation plans authorized and approved in accordance with O.C.G.A. § 45-20-4 receive a cost-of-living increase of a certain percentage or a certain amount, the amounts fixed in section 2-38 and section 2-39 shall be increased by the same percentage applicable to such state employees. If the cost-of-living increase received by state employees is in different percentages or different amounts as to certain categories of employees, the amounts fixed in section 2-38 and section 2-39 shall be increased by a percentage not to exceed the average percentage of the general increase in salary granted to the state employees as determined in accordance with O.C.G.A. § 45-20-4. The periodic changes in the amounts fixed in sections 2-38 and 2-39, as authorized by this section shall become effective on the first day of January following the date that the cost-of-living increases received by state employees become effective; provided, however, that if the cost-of-living increases received by state employees become effective on January 1, such periodic changes in the amounts fixed in section 2-38 and 2-39, as authorized by this paragraph shall become effective on the same date that the cost-of-living increases received by state employees become effective.
(Ord. No. Ord. No. 2020-05 , 9-21-2020, eff. 1-1-2022)
Secs. 2-42—2-60. - Reserved.
new
