ARTICLE V. - FINANCE[7]
Footnotes:
--- (7) ---
Cross reference— Any ordinance promising or guaranteeing the payment of money or authorizing the issuance of bonds or other instruments of indebtedness saved from repeal, § 1-13(1); any ordinance making or approving any appropriation or budget saved from repeal, § 1-13(4); taxation, ch. 86.

DIVISION 1. - GENERALLY

Sec. 2-341. - Designation of city depositories; bond.
One or more state depositories in the city shall be by the mayor and council designated as city depositories, and it shall be the duty of the city clerk to deposit all funds of the city coming into his hands in such state depositories. If more than one state depository is designated, he shall deposit such funds in each in such proportion as shall be designated by the mayor and council. Such state depositories shall first enter into a bond with good security to be approved by the mayor and council, conditioned to safely keep all money and assets as provided in this section, and to promptly pay over such money and assets upon proper warrant at any time such money and assets may be called for. The condition to safely keep and promptly pay over shall be without exception of fire, burglary, storm, accident or casualty of any kind whatsoever, and all failure of such state depositories, and shall be an obligation to safely keep and promptly pay over, absolutely and at all events.
(Code 1965, § 21-1)
State Law reference— Deposit of funds in banks or depositories, O.C.G.A. § 45-8-10 et seq.
Sec. 2-342. - Establishment of funds for city monies.
At its first meeting in January each year, the mayor and council shall establish and designate the various funds in the city depositories for the receipt of city monies, and shall prescribe the purposes thereof.
(Code 1965, § 21-2)
Sec. 2-343. - Establishment of system of accounting.
The system of accounting and bookkeeping of the city shall be such as shall be prescribed and from time to time readjusted by the mayor and council. The city clerk shall purchase such books, records, stationery and forms as shall be prescribed for such purposes.
(Code 1965, § 21-3)
State Law reference— Accounting for public funds, O.C.G.A. § 45-8-1 et seq.
Sec. 2-344. - Execution and contents of treasury warrants.
All warrants drawn on city funds shall be signed by the mayor and countersigned by the city clerk, shall be dated, and shall show by what authority, and for what purpose drawn, and the particular fund out of which it is to be paid. The warrants shall be consecutively numbered and detached from stubs of like number showing a brief record of the warrant. When paid and returned, the warrants shall be kept and preserved by the city clerk.
(Code 1965, § 21-4)
Sec. 2-345. - Warrants for bills of departments.
Separate warrants shall be issued for bills for each department, in order that they may be more easily checked, and merchants and others shall render their accounts against the city for each department separately and separate warrants shall be drawn by the mayor and clerk for each bill.
(Code 1965, § 21-5)
Sec. 2-346. - Disbursement of city funds restricted.
No officer of the city shall disburse city funds, except the city clerk with the consent of the mayor and council.
(Code 1965, § 21-6)
Sec. 2-347. - Audits.
It shall be the duty of the mayor and council to have a complete audit of all the books and accounts of the city at least once in each year, and to make certain that all receipts and disbursements are proper, and according to law and city ordinances on the subject.
(Code 1965, § 21-7)
Secs. 2-348—2-370. - Reserved.
DIVISION 2. - MUNICIPAL BONDS[8]

Footnotes:
--- (8) ---
State Law reference— Municipal bonds, O.C.G.A. §§ 36-38-1 et seq., 36-82-1 et seq.

Sec. 2-371. - Action preliminary to bond ordinance.
Preliminary to any issue of bonds by the city, the proposal for the issue shall be referred to the mayor and council, who shall give diligent consideration to the proposal, and no ordinance providing for a bond issue shall be in order until such action on the preliminary proposal has been taken by the mayor and council.
(Code 1965, § 21-74)
Sec. 2-372. - Tax levy for retirement of bonds.
For all bonds issued by the city there shall be levied and assessed, in addition to all other taxes, for each year, during the term for which the bonds run, an ad valorem tax upon all taxable property in the city, in such amount as will be sufficient to pay the bonds, principal and interest, at their respective dates of maturity, such tax to be promptly collected in each and every year, in the same manner as other city taxes. When collected, such tax shall be turned into the sinking fund, and appropriated as provided in this division.
(Code 1965, § 21-75)
State Constitution reference— Levy of taxes to pay bonds, Ga. Const. art. IX, § V, ¶ VI.
State Law reference— Municipal bonds, O.C.G.A. § 36-38-1 et seq.; local government bonds, O.C.G.A. § 36-82-1 et seq.
Sec. 2-373. - Bond book.
The city clerk shall keep a bond book with a complete and detailed statement and description of each bond issued, and such book shall at all times show the status of each bond.
(Code 1965, § 21-76)
Sec. 2-374. - Registration authorized.
All bonds evidencing the indebtedness of the city may, upon written application or request of the holders of such bonds, or any of them, be registered, both as to principal and interest, or as to principal only.
(Code 1965, § 21-77)
Sec. 2-375. - Registration book.
The city clerk shall procure and provide a suitable book, to be kept on file in his office, in which, upon written application and presentation of a city bond by the holder thereof, he shall enter a description of each bond so presented, stating the number, of what issue, the amount, the date issued, the date of maturity, the rate and maturity of interest, the date and number of the ordinance authorizing, how and where payable both as to principal and interest, by whom signed, and such other data as may be necessary for a ready identification of the bonds registered, together with the name of the person registering the bond, the capacity in which such person holds the bonds, for whose benefit the bond is registered, to what extent the bond is registered, or whether registered as to principal or principal and interest.
(Code 1965, § 21-78)
Sec. 2-376. - Application for registration.
In order that city bonds shall be registered as provided in this division, the holders shall first make written application for such registration, presenting therewith the bonds desired to be registered, which application shall be made to the city clerk, and shall state the number of the bonds presented, of what issue, the date, the amount, when due and to what extent the bonds shall be registered. The application shall be signed by the applicant, who, if holding a bond in any capacity other than for himself, shall sign the application in the name of the party for whose benefit he holds the bond, stating the capacity in which he signs and attaching proof thereof, the sufficiency of which proof shall be determined by the city attorney.
(Code 1965, § 21-79)
Sec. 2-377. - Statement of registration.
After any city bond shall have been registered it shall be the duty of the city clerk to stamp, print or write upon each bond a statement of the registration in substantially the following form:
Registered by ___________ nonnegotiable, as to principal and interest only to ___________ of ___________ at ___________ or his legal representatives, at ___________.
This day of ________, 20___.
EXPAND
City of Sylvester,
_____
City Clerk
  (Code 1965, § 21-80)
Sec. 2-378. - Endorsement of registration upon bonds.
If any city bond is registered both as to principal and interest, the clerk shall destroy the coupons and stamp, write or print upon each bond a statement, properly dated, of the amount and value of such coupons, and that the interest, at the rate and on the date as provided by the coupons, will be paid only to the holder or his legal representatives, or make the entry as provided for in section 2-377 or an entry to the same effect, upon each coupon and leave them attached, either as may be desired by the holder.
(Code 1965, § 21-81)
Sec. 2-379. - Transfer of registered bonds.
In order to transfer any city bond which has been registered under this division, the holder thereof shall present the bond to the city clerk and shall authorize such transfer in writing, giving the name of the transferee, the number of the bond, the issue, and the maturity. Such authority shall be signed and acknowledged in the presence of a notary public, or some other officer authorized by law to administer oaths, and such notary public or other officer shall certify, in writing and under the seal of his office, that such authority was signed and acknowledged in his presence. In addition to giving such written authority, the holder shall enter a statement of the transfer on the face of each bond, properly dated and signed. Thereupon the clerk shall enter the transfer of each bond opposite the original entry of registration in the book provided for in this division, giving the name of the transferee and the date of transfer, and shall always enter each transfer on each bond over his official signature. The transferee may thereafter, in the manner prescribed in this section, also transfer such bond.
(Code 1965, § 21-82)
Sec. 2-380. - Rendering registered bond negotiable.
When any city bond is registered as to the principal only, the bond may be made fully negotiable by transfer in the manner prescribed in section 2-379, in the general terms "to bearer." When so done, the clerk shall cancel all formal entries on the face of the bond.
(Code 1965, § 21-83)
Sec. 2-381. - Sinking fund.
(a)
Establishment; use. All taxes collected for the payment of the principal and interest of city bonds shall be kept as a separate fund, known as the "sinking fund," and under no circumstances shall such fund be paid out for any purpose other than the payment of interest and principal on the bonds for which it was collected, or for the purpose of investment as provided by law and city ordinances. If an officer honors or pays any warrants on such fund for any purpose other than those named in this section, he shall be guilty of malpractice and liable to impeachment.
(b)
Investment; reports. The custodian of the sinking fund shall promptly make arrangements for the investment of the principal of the sinking fund, as is required by law, upon approval of such arrangements by the mayor and council. The custodian shall make a report every six months, showing in detail the conditions of the sinking fund and the investments made therefrom.
(Code 1965, § 21-84)
State Constitution reference— Sinking fund required, Ga. Const. art. IX, § V, ¶ VI.
State Law reference— Deduction of sinking fund in computing bonded indebtedness, O.C.G.A. § 36-82-8.
Secs. 2-382—2-410. - Reserved.
