Chapter 14 - EMERGENCY MANAGEMENT[1]
ARTICLE I. - IN GENERAL

Secs. 14-1—14-18. - Reserved.
ARTICLE II. - 911 ADDRESSING

Sec. 14-19. - Definitions.
The following words, terms and phrases, when used in this article, shall have the meanings ascribed to them in this section, except where the context clearly indicates a different meaning:
Building official means a person whom the commissioners have appointed to administer and enforce the provisions of this article. Such official may also be referred to as "code enforcement."
(Ord. No. 2014-06-03a, § 2, 3-6-2014)
Sec. 14-20. - Purpose.
The purpose of this article is to improve the county E-911/emergency communication system and to provide for a uniform county-wide addressing system with respect to street or house numbers assigned to all residences and principal buildings and businesses within the county. This will assist fire and rescue companies, law enforcement agencies, the United States Postal Service, parcel delivery companies, utility companies, tax appraisal, public works, planning and the general public in the timely and efficient provision of services to residents and businesses in the county.
(Ord. No. 2014-06-03a, § 3, 3-6-2014)
Sec. 14-21. - Display required.
Every location furnished with a 911 address outside of any incorporated area must display that address so that it is visible from the public roadway. Mobile home parks and apartment complexes, including duplex dwelling structures, shall also be required to have each individual pad, lot number or apartment number displayed in a readily visible manner and in compliance with the requirements of this article. Such lot, pad or apartment numbers shall be in sequence unless directional signs are provided for numbers not in sequence.
(Ord. No. 2014-06-03a, § 4, 3-6-2014)
Sec. 14-22. - Method of display.
(a)
Assigned 911 address numbers may be fixed to the house, apartment, business or other location itself, provided that such house, apartment, business or other location is not more than 60 feet from the centerline of the roadway or the road or street in front of such location, and the number must be readily visible from the street or road by persons traveling along the street or road in each direction. 911 address numbers may also be placed on mailboxes or signs located on the premises in front of the location, as long as the mailboxes or signs are on the same side of the road as the house, apartment, business or other building or location. If the addresses or numbers are displayed on signs, such signs must be of a durable type, and must be located not more than 60 feet from the centerline of the street or road in front of the property. The numbers on such signs shall be readily visible from the street by persons traveling along the street in each direction. If not on signs or mailboxes, the address must be located within ten feet of the access from the public road. If the road in front of the location is unpaved, said sign should be located not more than 45 feet from the edge of the road nearest the location.
(b)
If the house, apartment, business or other building or location to be numbered is more than 60 feet from the centerline of the street or roadway in front of the property, or if for any reason a street address number affixed to the location would not be readily visible from the street or roadway by persons traveling along the street or roadway in each direction, then the 911 address numbers shall be displayed on a sign or mailbox on the premises next to the public roadway in front of the structure, and comply with the requirements of this section.
(Ord. No. 2014-06-03a, § 5, 3-6-2014)
Sec. 14-23. - Size, condition of addresses.
Assigned 911 address numbers and/or characters shall be a minimum of three inches in height and 1½ inches in width. Address numbers and characters for businesses shall be a minimum of four inches in height and two inches in width. All numbers or characters shall be reflective on a contrasting background so as to be clearly visible. It is recommended to use white reflective numbers and/or characters on a green background.
(Ord. No. 2014-06-03a, § 6, 3-6-2014)
Sec. 14-24. - Proper maintenance.
It shall be the responsibility of each property owner to properly maintain their E-911 address sign. Tall grass or bushes are to be kept cut or trimmed so as to not obstruct said signs. Also, any faded or missing numbers or characters shall be replaced so that the location may be located easily and at all times by emergency personnel.
(Ord. No. 2014-06-03a, § 7, 3-6-2014)
Sec. 14-25. - Duty of owner; notification; enforcement.
(a)
The obligation of complying with the provisions of this article shall be upon the owner of the property. Failure to comply shall constitute a violation of this article. Upon such violation, notice shall be given to the owner of the property, or his agent, specifying the nature of such violation, and requiring that such violation be remedied and brought into compliance within 30 days after receipt of such notice. Notification shall be made by the designated county building official.
(b)
Any violation of this article shall result in a penalty in accordance with section 1-9. Said prosecution will be pursued through the magistrate court. The designated county building official shall be responsible for enforcement of this provision.
(c)
It shall be unlawful for any person to remove, damage, alter or deface any posted E-911 address sign in the county. Violators shall be subject to prosecution. Upon conviction, the violator will be liable for a fine not to exceed $1,000.00, plus the cost of enforcement and prosecution. Said prosecution shall be pursued through the magistrate court.
(Ord. No. 2014-06-03a, § 8, 3-6-2014)
