Chapter 102 - ADMINISTRATION[1]
ARTICLE I. - IN GENERAL

Sec. 102-1. - Administration and interpretation.
It shall be the duty of the governing authority to administer and interpret this subpart. The governing authority or its designee may delegate administrative functions, powers and duties assigned by this subpart to other staff as may be appropriate, without the need to reflect such delegation by formal action. To this end, the governing authority or its designee is authorized to prepare administrative procedures, guidelines, and application forms, to tend to other administrative details not inconsistent with the provisions of this subpart, and to implement the provisions of this subpart.
(Ord. of 2-3-2015, § 3.1)
Sec. 102-2. - Appeal of an administrative decision or interpretation.
Any person who alleges that there has been an error in the administration or interpretation of this subpart by the building official, planning and zoning board, or any other designee, shall have the right to appeal the decision to the board of appeals, as more specifically provided in sections 102-3 and 102-4.
(Ord. of 2-3-2015, § 3.11)
Sec. 102-3. - Board of appeals—Organization and purpose.
All appeals shall be decided by the governing authority, the same being the Ludowici City Council or board of county commissioners of Long County, Georgia. These regulations provide a mechanism for relief in an individual case where certain dimensional requirements of this subpart pose undue hardship. These regulations also provide for appeals from actions of the building official in the administration, enforcement, and interpretation of this subpart.
(Ord. of 2-3-2015, § 5.2.1)
Sec. 102-4. - Same—Meetings; hearing of appeals.
(a)
The board of appeals shall adopt rules of procedure as are necessary to carry out the purposes of its authority. The board shall establish a regular meeting date and time for its meetings; however, meetings shall be held only on an as-needed basis and shall be open to the public. The board shall appoint a secretary, who shall be the county or city clerk, unless otherwise designated, to record the minutes of its proceedings, showing the action of each board member upon each question. The board shall keep records of its examinations and other official actions, all of which shall be filed with the clerk and be public records. The board may adjourn any public hearing or meeting in order to obtain additional information, or to serve further notice upon such other property owners as it decides may be interested in the application or appeal; provided, however, that the board shall act on all applications within 64 days of the date the initial public hearing on the matter was scheduled.
(b)
Any person who alleges there is an error in, or who is aggrieved by, a decision regarding the administration, enforcement, and/or interpretation of this subpart, may file an appeal with the clerk stating the grounds for such appeal. The board of appeals is hereby authorized to hear and decide said appeals, after proper application, public hearing and adoption of relevant findings of fact. An appeal shall stay all proceedings in furtherance of the action being appealed. The board of appeals may affirm, overrule or modify, in whole or in part, the administrative decision. In cases where an appeal is granted, the board of appeals shall have all necessary powers of the building official, and may issue building permits and land use permits, or direct the issuance of building permits and land use permits not otherwise inconsistent with this subpart and any other code, resolution, or ordinance adopted by the governing authority.
(Ord. of 2-3-2015, § 5.2.3)
Sec. 102-5. - Complete application.
Any application for action under this subpart must be complete before it shall be accepted for processing. Upon receipt of all application materials, the clerk shall find the application complete and schedule it for hearing, where required, and consideration.
(Ord. of 2-3-2015, § 3.2)
Sec. 102-6. - Withdrawal of application.
Any petition for an amendment to the text of this subpart, to amend the zoning district map, or for a conditional use permit may be withdrawn at any time prior to the public hearing on said application by the person or entity initiating such a request, upon written notice to the governing authority or its designee. In the event of such withdrawal, no filing fee for said application would be refunded by the applicable jurisdiction.
(Ord. of 2-3-2015, § 3.9)
Sec. 102-7. - Limitation on new applications.
In a case where an application for text amendment to this subpart, application for map amendment, or application for conditional use is denied by the governing authority, or in the case of a variance application that has been denied by the board of appeals, the same or substantially similar application shall not be eligible for resubmittal and reconsideration until six months has elapsed from the date of said denial.
(Ord. of 2-3-2015, § 3.10)
Sec. 102-8. - Land use permit required.
Unless specifically exempted or otherwise provided by this subpart, no building, sign, or other structure shall be erected, moved, added to, or structurally altered without a land use permit issued by the governing authority or its designee. It shall be unlawful to use or occupy, or permit the use or occupancy of, any building, structure, land, water, or premises, without a land use permit for such use or occupancy. Unless specifically exempted or otherwise provided by this subpart, no land use activity including land disturbance shall be initiated without a land use permit issued by the governing authority or its designee, and except in conformity with said land use permit.
(Ord. of 2-3-2015, § 3.12)
Secs. 102-9—102-34. - Reserved.
ARTICLE II. - MAP AND TEXT AMENDMENTS

Sec. 102-35. - Authority.
The governing authority may from time to time amend the number, shape, boundary, or area of the zoning district map, or it may amend any code or individual section of this subpart. The procedure for amending the zoning district map and amendment to any section contained in this subpart shall be as provided herein.
(Ord. of 2-3-2015, § 3.3)
Sec. 102-36. - Initiation process.
(a)
A petition to amend this subpart or the zoning district map, or an application for a conditional use permit, may be initiated by the county or the City of Ludowici, the planning and zoning board, or by any person, firm, or corporation owning property in the local jurisdiction. The property owner's permission is required before a petition for changing the zoning district map can be filed by anyone other than the county or the City of Ludowici, or the planning and zoning board. Applications for amendment to the zoning district map or the text of this subpart shall be accompanied by payment of a filing fee as established by the county by ordinance from time to time.
(b)
Prior to the initiation of an application by the owner of the subject property, the owner's agent or any entity in which the owner holds an ownership interest greater than 50 percent, for a special use permit, variance, rezoning or other land disturbing permit, including building permits and erosion and sediment control permits, or prior to the issuance of final approval, the authorizing body shall require the applicant to produce satisfactory evidence that any and all delinquent real estate taxes, nuisance charges, stormwater management utility fees and any other charges that constitute a lien on the subject property, that are owed to the locality and have been properly assessed against the subject property, have been paid.
(Ord. of 2-3-2015, § 3.3.1)
Sec. 102-37. - Application requirements.
Each application for a map amendment or conditional use permit shall be accompanied by a legal description of the property and a survey plat of the property, a letter of intent describing the proposed use of the property, an application form supplied by the clerk, a filing fee as specified from time to time by ordinance of the county, and any other information as may be required by this subpart or as specified by the governing authority or its designee to evaluate compliance with this subpart.
(Ord. of 2-3-2015, § 3.3.2)
Sec. 102-38. - Criteria considerations.
In reviewing, recommending, and acting upon applications for map amendments, the planning and zoning board and the governing authority shall consider the following criteria for approval, conditional approval, or disapproval as appropriate:
(1)
Compatibility with adjacent uses and districts. Existing uses and zoning districts of surrounding and nearby properties, whether the proposed zoning district is suitable in light of such existing uses and zoning districts of surrounding and nearby properties, and whether the proposal will adversely affect the existing use or usability of adjacent or nearby properties.
(2)
Property value. The existing value of the property contained in the petition under the existing zoning district classification, the extent to which the property value of the subject property is diminished by the existing zoning district classification, and whether the subject property has a reasonable economic use under the current zoning district.
(3)
Suitability. The suitability of the subject property under the existing zoning district classification, and the suitability of the subject property under the proposed zoning district classification of the property.
(4)
Vacancy and marketing. The length of time the property has been vacant or unused as currently used under the existing zoning district classification; and any efforts taken by the property owner to use the property or sell the property under the existing zoning district classification.
(5)
Evidence of need. The amount of undeveloped land in the general area affected which has the same zoning district classification as the map change requested. It shall be the duty of the applicant to carry the burden of proof that the proposed application promotes public health, safety, morality or general welfare.
(6)
Public facilities impacts. Whether the proposal will result in a use which will or could cause an excessive or burdensome use of existing streets, transportation facilities, utilities, schools, parks, or other public facilities and services.
(7)
Consistency with comprehensive plan. Whether the proposal is in conformity with the policy and intent of the locally adopted comprehensive plan.
(8)
Other conditions. Whether there are any other existing or changing conditions affecting the use and development of the property which give supporting grounds for either approval or disapproval of the proposal.
(Ord. of 2-3-2015, § 3.3.3)
Secs. 102-39—102-64. - Reserved.
ARTICLE III. - CONDITIONAL USES

Sec. 102-65. - Review; hearing.
There are specific land uses permitted in protected residential areas only after a review by the planning and zoning board, a public hearing has been held by the governing authority, and the governing authority has determined that the use is appropriate based on certain criteria.
(Ord. of 2-3-2015, § 3.4)
Sec. 102-66. - Criteria to consider.
In reviewing, recommending, and acting upon applications for conditional uses, the planning and zoning board and the governing authority shall consider the following criteria for approval or disapproval as appropriate:
(1)
Access to the site is appropriate considering the anticipated volume of traffic resulting from the use.
(2)
The amount and location of open space and the provision of screening is such that buffering of incompatible uses is achieved.
(3)
Hours and manner of operation of the proposed use are not inconsistent with the adjacent or nearby uses.
(4)
Public facilities and utilities are capable of adequately serving the proposed use.
(5)
The proposed use will not have a significant adverse effect on the level of property values or the health, safety and general welfare and character of adjacent land uses or the general area.
(6)
The physical conditions of the site, including size, shape, topography and drainage, are suitable for the proposed development.
(7)
The proposed use is consistent with the goals and objectives of the comprehensive plan.
(8)
Whether or not all pertinent and applicable requirements of this subpart, as well as all applicable state and federal laws, have been met.
(9)
Any other factors deemed relevant to the planning and zoning board or governing authority.
(Ord. of 2-3-2015, § 3.4.1)
Sec. 102-67. - Permit application requirements.
All applications for uses permitted in a protected residential district for conditional use must also include the following minimum information:
(1)
A detailed description of the activities, number of units, and hours of operation of the proposed conditional use;
(2)
A proposed starting date of land disturbance or construction, date of completion for all improvements, and use opening or date of first occupancy; and
(3)
A list of activities undertaken by the developer and subsequent occupant to mitigate all adverse impacts upon the surrounding properties before, during, and after the completion of development activities.
(Ord. of 2-3-2015, § 3.4.2)
Sec. 102-68. - Additional mitigation requirements.
The planning and zoning board may suggest, and the governing authority may impose or require, such additional restrictions and standards (e.g., increased setbacks, buffer strips, screening, etc.):
(1)
As may be necessary to protect the health and safety of workers and residents in the community; and
(2)
To protect the value and use of property in the general neighborhood.
(Ord. of 2-3-2015, § 3.4.3)
Sec. 102-69. - Adherence to requirements.
Provided that wherever the governing authority shall find, in the case of any permit granted pursuant to the provisions of these regulations, noncompliance of any term, condition, or restrictions upon which such permit was granted, the governing authority shall rescind and revoke such permit after giving due notice to all parties concerned and granting full opportunity for a public hearing.
(Ord. of 2-3-2015, § 3.4.4)
Sec. 102-70. - Permit longevity.
Conditional use permission granted by the governing authority shall be valid for a period of 12 months from date of approval. Such approval is based on information provided in the application. Building permits may only be granted for plans consistent with the approved application. Any deviation from the information submitted will require separate approval by the governing authority.
(Ord. of 2-3-2015, § 3.4.5)
Secs. 102-71—102-98. - Reserved.
ARTICLE IV. - VARIANCES

Sec. 102-99. - Procedure.
Where, because of topographical or other conditions peculiar to the site, strict adherence to the provisions of this subpart would cause an unnecessary hardship, the planning and zoning board may hear a variance and make a recommendation to the governing authority, if such variance can be made without destroying the intent of this Land Development Code. Variances must be entered in writing in the minutes of the governing authority, and the reason for said variance set forth.
(Ord. of 2-3-2015, § 3.5)
Sec. 102-100. - Standards.
After an application has been submitted to the building official, reviewed by the planning and zoning board, and a public hearing has been held by the planning and zoning board and the governing authority, the governing authority may grant a variance from the strict application of the provisions in this subpart, only if at least two of the following findings are made:
(1)
That there are unique physical circumstances or conditions beyond that of surrounding properties, including irregularity, narrowness, or shallowness of the lot size or shape, or exceptional topographical or other physical conditions, peculiar to the particular property;
(2)
That because of such physical circumstances or conditions, the property cannot be developed in strict conformity with the provisions of the Land Development Code, without undue hardship to the property;
(3)
That granting the variance will not result in authorization of a use not otherwise permitted in the district in which the property is located, or cause substantial detriment to the public good.
(Ord. of 2-3-2015, § 3.5.1)
Sec. 102-101. - Permit longevity.
After a variance has been granted by the governing authority, it shall be valid for a period of 12 months from date of approval. Such approval is based on information provided in the application. Building permits may only be granted for plans consistent with the approved application. Any deviation from the information submitted will require separate approval by the governing authority.
(Ord. of 2-3-2015, § 3.5.2)
Secs. 102-102—102-130. - Reserved.
ARTICLE V. - PLANNING AND ZONING BOARD

Sec. 102-131. - Creation and purpose.
There is created a planning and zoning board for the purpose of promoting the health, safety, morals, convenience, order, prosperity and general welfare, and to provide for the orderly development of the City of Ludowici or unincorporated areas of Long County.
(Ord. of 2-3-2015, § 5.1.1)
Sec. 102-132. - Appointment and terms.
(a)
A planning and zoning board is hereby established. The planning and zoning board shall consist of five members appointed by the county board of commissioners, except for Board Position 3 which shall be appointed by the Ludowici City Council, each member to serve for four-year terms.
(b)
The planning and zoning board shall elect one of its appointed members to serve as chairperson, and another as vice-chairperson. The chairperson shall serve for a period of one year or until a successor is elected.
(c)
The secretary to the planning and zoning board shall be the clerk of the building official, or such other designee as determined by the county. In his absence, the planning and zoning board, with approval of the county, may appoint an employee of the city or county, or a member of the planning and zoning board. The secretary shall keep records of examinations and other official actions, all of which shall be filed with the clerk of courts, and be public records.
(d)
A vacancy in the membership of the planning and zoning board shall be filled in the same manner as an original appointment. All members of the planning and zoning board are subject to removal, with or without cause, after written notice from the appointing governing body.
(e)
Compensation, if any, to any member of the planning and zoning board shall be determined by the appointing governing body.
(f)
The name of the board shall be "The Long County-City of Ludowici Planning and Zoning Board," herein referred to as the "planning and zoning board."
(Ord. of 2-3-2015, § 5.1.2)
Sec. 102-133. - Meetings.
(a)
The planning and zoning board shall meet in a regular session each month; the time and place of the meeting is to be set by the planning and zoning board. Special meetings may be held as deemed necessary by the chairperson, or a majority of the members, or at the request of the governing authority.
(b)
The planning and zoning board shall adopt rules for the transaction of business and shall keep a record of its determinations, which shall be a public record.
(Ord. of 2-3-2015, § 5.1.3)
Sec. 102-134. - Functions and duties.
The planning and zoning board shall perform all of the following duties:
(1)
Duties and responsibilities assigned by the governing authority.
(2)
Make formal recommendations to the governing authority on all petitions for variances from the city's or county's technical codes.
(3)
Make formal recommendations to the governing authority on all petitions for protected residential area map amendments, subdivisions, and/or amendments to the text of the subpart, specifically including special assignments requested by the governing authority, the clerk or building official, or the county board of health.
(4)
The planning and zoning board shall make careful surveys and studies periodically in order to update the local comprehensive plan. Consideration shall be given to existing conditions, probable future development, and the promotion of public health, safety, prosperity, economic development, efficiency and the general welfare as evidenced by the quality of life in the community.
(Ord. of 2-3-2015, § 5.1.4)
Sec. 102-135. - Planning and zoning board review and recommendation.
The planning and zoning board shall consider all applications to amend the text of this subpart, applications to amend the zoning district map, variances, and applications for conditional use permits. It shall render a recommendation to the governing authority on all such applications, and the planning and zoning board's action and recommendation shall be only advisory. The planning and zoning board shall hold a public hearing on all such specified applications and shall conduct its review in accordance with the procedures established herein. The planning and zoning board may recommend approval, approval with conditions, or denial of the application. The planning and zoning board shall render a recommendation following the close of the public hearing, or within 32 days after the public hearing on the application has been held. The governing authority or its designee shall notify the applicant in writing of the planning and zoning board's action or recommendation within five days of the conclusion of the public hearing, and within five days of its recommendation, if not made at the public hearing.
(Ord. of 2-3-2015, § 3.6)
Secs. 102-136—102-153. - Reserved.
ARTICLE VI. - PUBLIC HEARINGS

Sec. 102-154. - Actions specific to the governing authority.
(a)
Before taking action on a proposed amendment, and after receipt of the planning and zoning board recommendations and reports thereon, the governing authority shall hold a public hearing on the proposed amendment at their next scheduled meeting. So that the purpose of the Land Development Code will be served and so that health, public safety and general welfare will be secured, the governing authority may, in its legislative discretion:
(1)
Approve or deny the proposed land development action as submitted;
(2)
Reduce the land area for which the application is made;
(3)
Change the protected residential area to one other than that requested; or
(4)
Add or delete development conditions as the governing authority deems appropriate.
(b)
An action to defer a decision on the proposed amendment shall include a specific meeting date to which the proposed amendment is deferred. The governing authority may also approve a withdrawal of an application, and if so stipulated by the governing authority in its decision to approve withdrawal, the six-month limitation on refiling of the application for the same property shall not apply.
(Ord. of 2-3-2015, § 3.7)
Sec. 102-155. - Time limit for scheduling.
Within no more than 60 days after the filing of a complete application for which a hearing is required by this subpart, a public hearing shall be held on such applications before the appropriate body, as required by and in accordance with this subpart, before taking action on a proposed application.
(Ord. of 2-3-2015, § 3.8)
Sec. 102-156. - Notice—Newspaper publication.
For any proposed text amendment to this subpart, any application for a map amendment, and any application for a conditional use permit, a public notice shall be published in a newspaper of general circulation in the local jurisdiction at least 15 days, but not more than 45 days, prior to the scheduled public hearing. Such notice shall state the purpose, location, time and date of the public hearing, and the nature of said application. For map amendments initiated by a party other than the city or county, the public notice shall specifically include the location of the property, the current zoning district classification of the property, and the proposed zoning district classification of the property. For conditional use applications, the public notice shall specifically include the proposed use of the subject property and the current zoning district classification of the property.
(Ord. of 2-3-2015, § 3.8.1)
Sec. 102-157. - Same—Sign on subject property.
Whenever a map amendment or an application for conditional use is proposed by a party other than the city or county, the governing authority or its designee shall post a sign not less than 15 days prior to the date of the public hearing in a conspicuous place on said property, which shall be not less than 12 square feet in area, and which shall contain information as to the proposed change, and the date, time and location of the public hearing before the public hearing body. For map amendments, the sign shall specifically include the current zoning district classification of the property and the proposed zoning district classification of the property. For conditional use applications, the sign shall specifically include the proposed use of the subject property and the current zoning district classification of the property.
(Ord. of 2-3-2015, § 3.8.2)
Sec. 102-158. - Procedures.
This article establishes procedures which shall, unless the context specifically indicates otherwise, be applicable to the governing authority and planning and zoning board (hereafter referred to as the "public hearing body") in the conduct of all public hearings. Public hearings as are herein required shall be governed by the following policies and procedures for conducting public hearings, and the public hearing body shall follow such policies and procedures for the conduct of public hearings, except in cases where it is prudent to dispense with formalities in such cases where due process of the applicant or interested parties will be unaffected. Nothing contained herein shall be construed as prohibiting the public hearing body from conducting the public hearing in an orderly and decorous manner to ensure the public hearing on a proposed application is conducted in a fair and orderly manner. These rules shall be public record and shall be made available at the public hearing.
(Ord. of 2-3-2015, § 3.8.3)
Sec. 102-159. - Call of hearing.
The presiding officer of the public hearing body shall indicate that a public hearing has been called for the consideration of said applications. Thereupon, the public hearing body shall consider each application on an individual basis in the order of the published agenda, or as otherwise called by the presiding officer.
(Ord. of 2-3-2015, § 3.8.4)
Sec. 102-160. - Report by governing authority or its designee.
The presiding officer shall call upon the clerk or other appropriate staff to make a report, if any, concerning the proposed application. The governing authority or its designee, or other appropriate staff, shall then give the report, if any, for said application.
(Ord. of 2-3-2015, § 3.8.5)
Sec. 102-161. - Presentation by applicant.
The presiding officer shall call on the applicant or applicant's agent, who shall present and explain his application. It shall be the duty of the applicant to carry the burden of proof that the proposed application promotes public health, safety, morality, and/or general welfare.
(Ord. of 2-3-2015, § 3.8.6)
Sec. 102-162. - Determination of interested parties.
Following the applicant's presentation, the presiding officer may ask for a show of hands of those persons who wish to appear in support of, or opposition to, the petition. If it appears that the number of persons wishing to appear in support of or opposition to the petition is in excess of that which may reasonably be heard, the presiding officer may request that a spokesperson for the group be chosen to make presentations. Proponents and opponents of each decision shall have at least ten minutes to present data, evidence and opinions on the proposed application.
(Ord. of 2-3-2015, § 3.8.7)
Sec. 102-163. - Public testimony.
Prior to speaking, each speaker will identify himself and state his current address. Each speaker shall speak only to the merits or liabilities of the proposed application under consideration, and shall address his remarks only to the public hearing body. Each speaker shall refrain from personal attacks on any other speaker, or the discussion of facts or opinions irrelevant to the proposed application under consideration. The presiding officer may limit or refuse a speaker the right to continue, if the speaker, after first being cautioned, continues to violate these procedures.
(Ord. of 2-3-2015, § 3.8.8)
Sec. 102-164. - Applicant's rebuttal.
After public testimony, the applicant or applicant's agent shall be allowed a short opportunity for rebuttal and final comment.
(Ord. of 2-3-2015, § 3.8.9)
Sec. 102-165. - Close.
After the above procedures have been completed, the presiding officer will indicate that the public hearing is formally closed, and the public hearing shall not be re-opened except upon formal vote of the public hearing body; provided, however, that this provision shall not require the closure of a public hearing where, at the discretion of the public hearing body, the hearing should be continued at a later time or date.
(Ord. of 2-3-2015, § 3.8.10)
Sec. 102-166. - Recess.
The public hearing body, for any reason it deems necessary or desirable, may recess or continue a hearing. Upon recessing or continuing a hearing, the public hearing body shall announce the time, date and place when the hearing will be resumed, and such public announcement shall be considered sufficient notice thereof to all persons.
(Ord. of 2-3-2015, § 3.8.11)
Sec. 102-167. - Vote.
After the public hearing is closed, the public hearing body may vote upon the proposed application. Prior to voting, the public hearing body shall consider evidence and public testimony presented at the public hearing, and the public hearing body shall apply the evidence to the applicable criteria specified in this subpart for said application. It will not be required that the public hearing body consider every criteria contained in this subpart, except for variances where all criteria for approving variances must be met. At such public hearings as herein required to be held, the governing authority may enact an ordinance granting the application, or may by motion deny the application at the conclusion of the public hearing, or within a specified time thereafter. If the governing authority determines from the evidence presented that the applicant has shown that the proposed application is consistent with the applicable criteria for said application, the application shall be granted and such approval may be subject to those reasonable conditions as may be imposed by the governing authority.
(Ord. of 2-3-2015, § 3.8.12)
