ARTICLE X. - PLANNING AND ZONING

Sec. 100. - Planning commission—Authorized.
There shall be created, as a part of the government of the City of Moultrie, a commission to be known as the city planning commission, which commission shall consist of six citizens to be appointed by the council with the city manager as an ex officio member thereof. Said six citizens shall also be the city's representatives on the joint city-county planning commission.
(1943 Ga. Laws, page 1458, § 65; 1972 Ga. Laws (Act No. 1448), § 13)
Sec. 101. - Same—Powers.
Said commission shall have all the power hereinafter set forth, and, in addition thereto, such powers as may be proper and consistent with the organization and operation of said commission as may be established by ordinance passed by the council; and an office shall be provided for said commission at the city hall, if possible, at which to hold its meetings, transact its business, and keep its records. Said commission shall have the power and authority to employ consulting advice on municipal problems and such other help as may be necessary, and to pay for the services thereof, including disbursements incurred by its members in the performance of their duties under the direction of such commission, from which funds as may be pledged at the disposal of said commission by authority of the council.
(1943 Ga. Laws, page 1458, § 66)
Sec. 102. - Same—Duties.
It shall be the duty of said commission and they have power to recommend or make suggestions to the council concerning the laying out, widening, extending, and parking and location of streets, sidewalks, boulevards; the relief of traffic conditions, congestion, and development of housing and sanitary conditions, and the establishment of zones or districts; suggestions concerning the use, height, area, and build of buildings or structures; to recommend to the council and all other public authorities plans for the future growth, development, and improvement of the municipality, and especially with regard to its public and private buildings, and works, streets, parks, grounds and vacant lots; and plans consistent with the future growth and development of the city, looking towards the proper sanitation and service by public utilities; and generally to do and perform any and all other acts and things necessary or proper to carry out the provisions of this Act [Charter]; to study and propose such measures as may be advisable for the promotion of public interests, health, morals, safety, comfort, convenience, and welfare of said city.
(1943 Ga. Laws, p. 1458, § 67)
From and after the effective date of this Act the interest rate on all executions issued by the City of Moultrie for any purpose shall be nine (9) per cent.
(1943 GA. Laws, p. 3793, § 2)
Sec. 103. - Investigations; recommendations; reports.
Said commission shall have authority to investigate and make recommendations concerning all plans for sewers, both sanitary and storm-water, where placed in any property or subdivision or lots which are intended to be sold. Said commission shall have authority to make recommendations to all parties, corporations, or public authorities with reference to the erection of buildings, structures, or work to be erected or remodeled, and such persons or authorities shall have authority to call upon the commission for a report as to the construction, placing, or designing of buildings or other structures and improvements or objects of art.
(1943 Ga. Laws, page 1458, § 68)
Sec. 104. - Assistance of city officials.
All officials of said city shall at all times render assistance to said commission when it calls upon them for such service.
(1943 Ga. Laws, page 1458, § 69)
Sec. 105. - Appropriations; gifts, etc.
The council shall make such appropriation for carrying on the work of said commission as it thinks proper in like manner and form as appropriations are made to other departments of the city. Said commission shall have authority to receive gifts, bequests, and devises of property, and to carry out the general purposes of same; and when such gifts, bequests or devises are made to said commission it shall have full, complete, and final control and disposition over same, and same shall not pass into the city treasury or otherwise be counted as a part of the revenue of the city.
(1943 Ga. Laws, page 1458, § 70)
Sec. 106. - Report from commission prerequisite for consideration of public buildings, works or improvements; exceptions.
No ordinance or resolution authorizing any buildings, works or improvements, where same is done by authority of the city or for the benefit of the city, shall be passed by the council unless same shall have first been submitted to the commission for its consideration and had report thereon. Afterwards the council may accept or reject the report; but it is the purpose of this provision to provide for a recommendation, either favorable or unfavorable, by the commission thereon, to wit, public buildings, as above stated, where undertaken by or on behalf of the City of Moultrie, except school buildings, viaducts, bridges, street fixtures, and other street structures and appurtenances; opening, widening, vacation or extension of any street.
(1943 Ga. Laws, page 1458, § 72)
Sec. 107. - Procedure; delay of report beyond thirty days.
Where any ordinance or resolution relating to the matters just named [in section 106] are introduced in the council, the city clerk shall, upon its introduction, refer such ordinance or resolution to the commission, and the council shall not act thereon until report shall be made by the commissioners, as above stated; except where such report is delayed beyond a period of thirty days, the council may take it up and pass same without such report.
(1943 Ga. Laws, page 1458, § 73)
Sec. 108. - Comprehensive zoning plan.
Said commission shall prepare and submit to the council a comprehensive plan for zoning the city, for the purpose of suggestion [of] the proper location of streets, apartment houses, dwellings, and other uses of property, the height of buildings, the area of the lot, the provision of yard space, and the fixing of building lines. It is not intended by this provision to vest in said commission authority to finally control the location and operation thereof, but only to make suggestions which shall be given publicity, and to give the owners or builders the benefits of the suggestions, all looking towards the final betterment and improvement of the city, said final authority shall be vested in the council.
(1943 Ga. Laws, page 1458, § 71)
Sec. 109. - Zoning.
Zoning regulations. The council may, in the interest of the public health, safety, order, convenience, comfort, prosperity, or general welfare, adopt by ordinance a plan or plans for the districting or zoning of the city for the purpose of regulating the location of trades, industries, apartment houses, dwellings, or other uses of property, or for the purpose of regulating the height of the buildings or other structures, or for the area of dimensions of the lots or of the yards used in connection with buildings or other structures, or for the purpose of regulating the alignment of buildings or other structures near street frontages. The zoning regulations may be based upon any one or more of the purposes above described. The city may be divided into such number of zones or districts, and such districts may be of such shape and area as the council shall deem best suited to accomplish the purposes of the zoning regulations. In the determination and establishment of districts and regulations, classifications may be based on the nature or character of the trade, industry, profession or other activity conducted or to be conducted upon the premises, the number of persons, families or other group units to reside or use buildings, the public, quasi-public, or private nature of the use of the premises or upon any other basis or bases relevant to the promotion of the public health, safety, order, morals, conveniences, prosperity, or welfare.
Residence sections. For the reasons above stated, said council shall have the further right and power, in any districts proposed to be set aside primarily for residence purposes, to further classify the use thereof and to provide therein the class or classes of residents to be housed therein and to provide therein such other and similar regulations and restrictions as shall secure the peace and good order of the city and the residents thereof. No such ordinance or amendment thereto authorized by either of the above sections shall be adopted unless it has received at least four votes in favor of adoption.
Preparation of plan; notice and hearings; ordinance. No ordinance adopting zoning regulations as above authorized shall be passed until after a comprehensive plan for the zoning of the city has been prepared and submitted to the council by the city planning commission. Whenever the city planning commission shall certify to the council a plan for the zoning of the city, the council shall hold a public hearing thereon, and shall give notice of the time and place thereof in a newspaper in general circulation in the city; and during said time a copy of such plan and proposed ordinance shall be on file for public examination in the office of the city planning commission or any such other office as may be designated by the council. No ordinance, measure, or regulation which violates, differs, or departs from the plan or report submitted by the city planning commission shall take effect unless passed by at least four votes in favor of passage.
Amendment of zone plan. The council may from time to time amend or change the regulations or district established by the zoning ordinance, but no such amendment or change shall become effective unless the ordinance proposing such amendment or change shall be first submitted to the city planning commission for approval or disapproval, and the city planning commission shall have been allowed a reasonable time, not less than thirty days for consideration and report. Whenever the owners of fifty per cent of the land in any area shall present a petition, duly signed and acknowledged, to the council, requesting an amendment of the regulation prescribed for such area, it shall be the duty of the council to vote upon such amendment within ninety days of the filing of same by the petitioners with the city clerk.
Board of zoning appeals. The zoning regulations shall be enforced and administered by the inspector of buildings under the rules and regulations of the board of zoning appeals. The council shall create and choose a board of zoning appeals, which board shall hear and decide appeals from, and review any order, requirement, decision, or determination made by, the inspector of buildings in the enforcement of the zoning regulations. The council may authorize the board of zoning appeals to administer the details of the application of any zoning regulations, and may delegate to such board, in accordance with general rules set forth in the zoning ordinance, power to permit exceptions to and variations from the zoning regulations, and to administer the zoning regulations as specified therein; or such administrative powers and functions may be delegated by the council, either in whole or in part, to the city planning commission, and the city planning commission when acting in accordance with such delegations shall be the board of zoning appeals.
Certiorari to review decision of board of zoning appeals. Every decision of the board of zoning appeals shall be subject to writ of certiorari issued from the Superior Court upon the same terms as such writs are issued in any case.
(1943 Ga. Laws, page 1458, § 74; 1986 Ga. Laws (Act No. 1125), §§ 3, 4)
Sec. 110. - Airport zoning.
The mayor and council of said city, in addition to all other powers that they now have under the law, are hereby empowered to pass ordinances fixing an airspace safety zone upon all property situated adjacent to Spence Field and the Municipal Airport and to prohibit the erection of any structure of any nature whatsoever at a height of a glide angle for aircraft of 40 to 1 feet measured outward from the boundaries of said airports a distance of one thousand five hundred feet; except that the said air space safety zone restriction of forty to one feet glide angle shall extend outward to the end of all runways on said airports for a distance of not less than two miles from the boundaries of said airports along a prolongation of the center lines of said runways and extending laterally from the center line of said runways a distance of seven hundred and fifty feet each way at the airport boundary, increasing to a lateral distance of two thousand feet each way from the center lines of said runways a distance of not less than two miles from the boundaries of said airports.
(a)
The ordinance hereinabove specified shall not be adopted by said mayor and council until notice specifying the time and place of the meeting at which time said ordinance will be considered shall have been published in the official gazette of Colquitt County at least two weeks before date of said meeting.
(b)
In case any building or structure is erected, constructed, reconstructed, altered, repaired, converted, or maintained, or ordinance duly adopted under the authority conferred hereby is violated, or in the event of the violation by any person or persons of any of the provisions of this Act [Section], such violation in any respect shall be held to be a misdemeanor under the laws of the state, and the offender upon conviction shall be punished as for a misdemeanor in the appropriate courts of Colquitt County; and in addition thereto said mayor and council, or any person or persons who may be injured by violation of this Act [Section], or the ordinance of said city enacted hereunder, may institute injunction, mandamus, abatement or any other appropriate action or actions, proceeding or proceedings, to prevent, enjoin, abate or remove such unlawful erection, construction or reconstruction. The foregoing powers shall be applicable to growing trees which may interfere with the aforesaid glide angle; and said City of Moultrie shall have the authority to condemn, in the manner now provided by law, any trees whose growth may impede the flight of planes to and from said airports.
(1945 Ga. Laws, page 768, § 2)
