ARTICLE VIII. - HEALTH AND SANITATION

Sec. 89. - Reserved.
Editor's note— 1985 Ga. Laws (Act No. 18), § 5, repealed former § 89, which section pertained to the creation of a city board of health and was derived from 1943 Ga. Laws, page 1458, § 58.
Sec. 90. - Sanitation facilities; licensing of plumbers.
The council shall be authorized to provide by resolution, ordinance, or otherwise, suitable regulations for the drainage, sewerage, plumbing, and all that may be needful for improved sanitation, and provide means and agencies for the carrying out and enforcement of the same through the proper officers, and make all necessary inspections; to withhold licenses for plumbing to any but competent persons, and to do all else that is or may be necessary to require compliance by individuals with the rules and regulations thus adopted, and shall have power to make alterations and amendments thereto as from time to time may be needed.
(1943 Ga. Laws, page 1458, § 40)
Sec. 91. - Privies, water closets.
The council shall have full power and authority to require the owner of any improved lot in said city to provide suitable sanitary facilities on said lot, wherever in their judgment such are necessary. The council shall have authority to condemn and forthwith prevent anyone using any sanitary facilities in said city, that they may deem against the healthfulness of the city, or deleterious to the proper sanitary condition of said city. The council is authorized to enforce this section by ordinances prescribing penalties for the refusal of anyone violating the same. The council may condemn any sanitary facilities and order the owner to remove the same, and if, after three days' notice, the owner has not complied with such order, the marshal shall remove same at the cost of such owner. The amount to be collected from said owner as taxes are collected.
(1943 Ga. Laws, page 1458, § 37; 1972 Ga. Laws (Act No. 1448), § 10)
Sec. 92. - Mosquito control; extraterritorial jurisdiction.
For the purpose of eradication of mosquitoes, providing proper sanitation and the protection of the general welfare and public health the council of said city shall have jurisdiction over all property within one mile, in any direction, from the limits of the city as set out in section 2 above [of this charter], and shall have the power and authority to drain all streams or pools within said area which breed mosquitoes, and to take such other steps as they may deem necessary for the eradication of mosquitoes, to abate nuisances within said area which are injurious to the health of its citizens, to provide proper sanitation within said area for the protection of the health of its citizens, to appropriate money and to pass reasonable ordinances to carry out the provisions of this section. The officers and agents of said city shall have the right of ingress and egress over the property in said area for the purpose of sanitary inspection and of doing any and all things said city or its authorities may be empowered to do by the terms of this section.
(1943 Ga. Laws, page 1458, § 3)
Sec. 93. - Animals running at large; dog tax.
The council of said city shall have the right to pass ordinances and the power to enforce same, to take up and impound any horse, mule, asses, cows, hogs, goats, sheep, or other animals running at large in said city, and make and enforce all ordinances that may be necessary for the regulations and control of such animals in said city, and they shall have the power to levy a tax on each dog in said city, not to exceed one dollar per year and to enforce said tax as other taxes are enforced; in addition to which they shall have the right to pass ordinances requiring the inoculation of all dogs in said city against rabies, and ordering the police officers of said city to impound or kill any dogs which have not been so inoculated or for which the tax be not paid.
(1943 Ga. Laws, page 1458, § 56)
