CHAPTER 6. - GA - GENERAL AGRICULTURAL

Section 6.0 - Purpose.
The General Agricultural District is established as a district in which the principal use of the land is for profit-generating agricultural operations (fields, lots, pastures, orchards, non-intensive livestock production, etc.), agricultural conservation lands, commercial timber or pulpwood harvesting, horticultural businesses, and very low-density housing. The specific intent of the regulations for this District is:
1.
To protect, land, especially prime farm land, needed and used for agricultural pursuits form encroachment by untimely and unplanned residential, commercial, or industrial development; and
2.
To allow the continuation of existing agricultural pursuits in area where, in accordance with the recommendations of the Future Land Use Plan, future residential, commercial, or industrial development is anticipated, but where the present application of such zoning controls for future, more intensive land uses would be unreasonable and premature.
Section 6.1 - Permitted Uses.
Residential:
Primary Structure - Single family, manufactured, and modular homes on lot sizes of five (5) acres or greater.
Accessory Uses - Including, but not limited to, a private garage, detached home workshop, swimming pool, greenhouse, all of which shall be incidental to the use of the property as a residence.
Agricultural:
1.
Sale of products or commodities grown on premises.
2.
General agricultural uses to include, but not limited to:
• Fields, lots, pastures, orchards, non-intensive livestock production.
• Agricultural conservation lands.
• Commercial timber or pulpwood harvesting.
• Horticultural businesses.
Other Uses:
1.
Home Occupations.
2.
One (1) manufactured home, per lot, for the care of another.
3.
Agricultural related commercial businesses.
Section 6.2 - Conditional Use Permit.
The following shall be allowed as in the General Agricultural District after a conditional use permit has been issued:
1.
Small-scale commercial businesses.
2.
Home Businesses.
3.
Churches.
4.
Airports or Helipads.
5.
Care Homes.
6.
Day Care Facilities.
7.
Commercial Recreational Areas.
8.
Large scale poultry and swine production facilities.
9.
Feed lots.
10.
Quarries or other mining activities.
11.
Municipal Solid Waste Landfills.
Section 6.3 - Setbacks.
All primary and accessory structures/uses shall be placed a minimum of twenty-five feet (25') away from all property lines.
