CHAPTER 2. - DEFINITIONS OF TERMS USED

Section 2.0 - Definitions.
The following words, terms, and phrases, when used in this Ordinance, shall have the meanings respectively ascribed to them in this section, except in those instances where the context clearly indicates a different meaning:
Access: A way or means of approach to provide physical entrance to a property.
Applicant: A property owner or their authorized representative who has petitioned Pulaski County for approval of a variance, conditional use, development permit, building permit, interpretation or appeal, or any other authorization for the use or development of their property under the requirements of this Ordinance.
Application: A petition for approval of a variance, conditional use, development permit, building permit, interpretation or appeal, or any other authorization for the use or development of a property under the requirements of this Ordinance.
Basement: That portion of a building having its floor subgrade (below ground level) on all sides.
Berm: A mound of earth, or the act of pushing earth into a mound.
Block: An area of land within a subdivision that is entirely surrounded by public streets, public lands, railroad rights-of-way, watercourses, or other well-defined and fixed boundaries.
Buffer: An area of natural vegetation or manmade construction that is intended to provide a visual and dimensional separation between dissimilar land uses.
Buffer, Natural: A visual screen created by vegetation of such density so as to present an opaque visual separation when viewed from one side to the other throughout the year.
Buffer, Structural: A visual screen created through construction of a solid wooden fence, decorative masonry wall, earthen berm, or combination of fence or wall with an earthen berm, which may be supplemented with vegetation, so as to present an opaque visual separation when viewed from one side to the other throughout the year.
Buildable Area of Lot: That portion of a lot bounded by, and interior to, the required rear, side, and front building setback lines.
Building: Any structure, either temporary or permanent, above or below ground, having a roof or other covering and designed, built or used as a shelter or enclosure for persons, animals, or property of any kind including tents or awnings used for purposes of a building.
Building Code: The technical codes adopted or adopted as amended by Pulaski County.
Building Inspector: Means the person appointed, employed, or otherwise designated as the director of planning, permits and inspections of building structures; the building inspector may be the person appointed to serve as enforcement officer as defined in this Ordinance.
Building Permit: A written permit that allows construction issued by the Code Enforcement Officer for Pulaski County, Georgia.
Building, Principal: A building in which the primary use of the lot on which the building is located is conducted.
Center Line: That line connecting the succession of midpoints between the identifiable limits of any improvements on the ground or of any easement.
Clerk of the Superior Court: The Clerk of the Superior Court of Pulaski County, Georgia.
Certificate of occupancy: Means a document issued by the building inspector certifying that a dwelling unit, commercial facility or any structure intended for human occupancy is in compliance with applicable requirements set forth by the governing authority, and indicating it to be in a condition suitable for occupancy.
Condominium: Individual ownership of units in a multi-unit structure or structures, combined with a joint ownership of common areas and/or facilities of the buildings and grounds.
Construction, Existing: Any structure for which the start of construction commenced before the effective date of this Ordinance.
Construction, New: Any structure for which the start of construction commenced after the effective date of this Ordinance.
Construction, Start of: For other than new construction or substantial improvements under the Coastal Barrier Resources Act (P.L. 97-3-18), includes substantial improvements, and means the date the building permit was issued, provided the actual start of construction repair, reconstruction, or improvement was within one hundred eighty days (180) of the permit date. The actual start of construction means the first placement of permanent construction of a building, including a manufactured home, on site, such as the pouring of slabs or footing, installation of piles, construction of columns, or any work beyond the stage of excavation or the placement of a manufactured home on a foundation. Permanent construction does not include land preparation, such as clearing, grading and filling, nor does it include the installation of streets or walkways; the excavation for a basement, footings, piers or foundations, or the erection of temporary forms; or the installation on the property of accessory buildings, such as garages or sheds not occupied as dwelling units or not part of the main building.
Contractor: The developer or subdivider or his authorized representative, whether doing work on a contract basis or working directly for the developer or subdivider.
County Commissioner: The Sole Pulaski County Commissioner.
County Health Officer: The Pulaski County Health Department officer responsible for approval of on-site sewage disposal systems.
Curb Break or Curb Cut: Any interruption or break in the line of a street curb for the purpose of connecting a driveway and a street, or otherwise to provide vehicular access to an abutting property.
Cut: A portion of land surface or area from which earth has been removed or will be removed by excavation, the depth below original ground surface to excavated surface, also known as excavation.
Day, Calendar: One of the numbered twenty-four (24)-hour periods into which a week, month, or year is divided.
Day, Business: The calendar days of Monday through Friday, except for those days on which a State or Federal Holiday occurs.
Developer: Any person who undertakes the subdivision of land as defined in this Ordinance.
Development: Any manmade change on improved or unimproved real estate including, but not limited to, buildings, structures, mining, dredging, filling, grading, paving, excavation, drilling, or permanent storage of materials or equipment.
Development Permit: The authorization necessary to initiate and conduct a land-disturbing activity and to carry out the planned development of land and structures.
Development/Construction Plans: A set of plans, details, and technical specifications for the construction of site improvements to a commercial, office, industrial, or multi-family lot that includes, but is not limited to, building footprints, drives, parking, drainage systems, utilities, buffers, landscaping, parking lot lighting, embankments, signage, soil erosion control devices and measures, and all other improvements required for the subdivision of land.
DOT: Georgia Department of Transportation.
Drainage Structure: A device composed of a virtually non-erodible material such as concrete, steel, plastic, or other such material that conveys water from one place to another by intercepting the flow and carrying it to a release point for storm water management, drainage control, or flood control purposes.
Driveway: A travelway improved for vehicular access to a property for the primary purpose of providing access between a street and automobile parking facilities or truck-loading areas on the property, or for providing a connection between distinct parking and loading areas on the property.
Dwelling: A building or portion of a building arranged or designed to provide living quarters for one (1) or more families.
Dwelling, Multi-Family: A residential building exclusively designed for or occupied by three (3) or more families in separate dwelling units living independently of each other on a single lot, and meeting or exceeding the standards for single-family and two (2)-family dwellings contained in this Ordinance.
Dwelling, Single-Family: A residential building, whether site-built or a manufactured home or an industrialized building, designed for or occupied exclusively by one (1) family and meeting or exceeding the standards for single-family and two (2)-family dwellings contained in this Ordinance.
Dwelling, Two-Family: A residential building designed for or occupied exclusively by two (2) families in separate dwelling units living independently of each other on a single lot, and meeting or exceeding the standards for single-family and multi-family dwellings contained in this Ordinance.
Dwelling Unit: One (1) or more rooms connected together and constituting a separate, independent housekeeping establishment for use on a basis involving owner occupancy or rental or lease on a weekly, monthly, or longer basis, with provisions for cooking, eating, and sleeping, and physically set apart from any other rooms or dwelling units in the same structure.
Easement: A grant by a property owner of the use of land for a specific purpose or purposes by the general public, a corporation, or a certain person or persons.
Enforcement Officer: The official or his/her designate as appointed by the Sole Commissioner and charged with the administration and enforcement of this Ordinance.
EPD: The Environmental Protection Division of the Department of Natural Resources.
Erosion: The process that wears land surface away by the action of wind, water, ice, or gravity.
Erosion and Sedimentation Control Plan: A plan for the control of soil erosion and sedimentation resulting from a land-disturbing activity.
Erosion and Sedimentation Control Practices, Structural: Measures for the stabilization of erodible or sediment-producing areas by utilizing the mechanical properties of matter for the purpose of either changing the surface of the land or storing, regulating, or disposing of runoff to prevent excessive sediment loss. Examples of structural erosion and sedimentation control practices are riprap, sediment basins, dikes, level spreaders, waterways or outlets, diversions, grade stabilization structures, sediment traps, and land grading, etc. Such measures can be found in the publication, Manual for Erosion and Sediment Control in Georgia.
Erosion and Sedimentation Control Practices, Vegetative: Practices for the stabilization of erodible or sediment-producing areas by covering with:
1.
Permanent seeding, sprigging, or planting, producing long-term vegetative cover; or
2.
Temporary seeding, producing short-term vegetative cover; or
3.
Sodding, covering areas with turn of perennial sod-forming grass.
Such practices can be found in the publication, Manual for Erosion and Sediment Control in Georgia.
Family: An individual or two (2) or more persons living together as a household.
Fence: An artificially constructed barrier of wood, wire, wire mesh, or decorative metal erected to enclose, screen, or separate portions of a lot.
Fill: A portion of land surface to which soil or other solid material has been added; the depth above the original ground.
Final Plat: A complete and exact subdivision plat prepared for official recording as required by this Ordinance.
Finished Grade: The final elevation and contour of the ground after cutting or filling and conforming to the proposed design.
Flood or Flooding: A general and temporary condition of partial or complete inundation of normally dry land areas from the overflow of tidal waters and/or the unusual and rapid accumulation of runoff of surface waters from any source.
Flood Insurance Rate Map (FIRM): An official map of a community, on which the Federal Emergency Management Agency (FEMA) has delineated both the areas of special flood hazard and the risk premium zones applicable to the community.
Floor: The top surface of an enclosed area in a building including basement, i.e., top of slab in concrete construction or top of wood flooring in wood frame construction. The term does not include the floor of a garage used solely for parking vehicles.
GAEPD: The Environmental Protection Division of the State of Georgia Department of Natural Resources.
Grading: Altering the shape of ground surfaces to predetermined condition; this includes stripping, cutting, filling, stockpiling, and shaping, or any condition thereof, and shall include the land in its cut or filled condition.
Ground Elevation: The original elevation of the ground surface prior to cutting or filling.
Guarantee of Condition Bond: Means a surety bond to guarantee that the affidavit and photographs required by paragraphs (1) and (2) of subsection (a) of Section 3 of this Ordinance reasonably portray or represents the existing condition of the pre-owned manufactured home proposed for relocation.
Hardship Variance: A dispensation permitted on individual parcels of property as a method of alleviating unnecessary hardship by allowing a reasonable use of the building, structure, or property, which, because of unusual or unique circumstances, is denied by the terms of the applicable development regulations.
Health Department: The Pulaski County Health Department.
Home, Manufactured: A structure, transportable in one (1) or more sections, which, in the traveling mode, is eight (8) body feet or more in width or forty (40) body feet or more in length or, when erected on site, is three hundred twenty (320) or more square feet in floor area, and which is built on a permanent chassis and designed to be used as a dwelling with or without a permanent foundation when connected to the required utilities, and includes the plumbing, heating, air-conditioning, and electrical systems contained therein; and which complies with the standards established under the National Manufactured Housing Construction and Safety Standards Act of 1974, 42 U.S.C. Section 5401, et seq. "Manufactured home" includes such structures commonly referred to as "mobile home," and "house trailer;" the term does not include campers, travel trailers, motor homes, or modular homes.
Home, Manufactured, Pre-Owned: Any manufactured home that has been previously used as a residential dwelling and has been titled.
Home, Modular: Finished housing sections, built in a factory, which are transported to the building site and joined together on a permanent foundation. This may include whole sections, such as bedrooms and living areas, chosen by the buyer and assembled such that they result in a floor plan that resembles a traditional home. Subject to state or local codes, not HUD code.
Home, Stick-Built or Site-Built: Industry term for a "traditional" home assembled piece-by-piece at the building site from rough boards and other materials delivered in bulk.
HUD Code: The Federal Manufactured Home Construction and Safety Standards (commonly known as the HUD Code) that went into effect June 15, 1976 and sets the standards for manufactured homes. The standards regulate design and construction, strength and durability, transportability, fire resistance, energy efficiency, and quality. On-site additions such as garages, decks, and porches are built to local, state, or regional building codes.
Improvements: Those physical additions and changes to the land that may be necessary to produce usable and desirable lots.
Improvements, Public: The construction, enlargement, extension, or other construction of a facility intended for dedication to the public, including but not limited to, a street, curb and gutter, sidewalk, cross drain, catch basin, traffic control and street name sign, or other roadway appurtenance other than a driveway apron connection; domestic water supply system main, fire hydrant, valve or other appurtenance other than a supply line to a building; or sanitary sewerage main or outfall, lift station, force main, manhole or other appurtenance other than a drain line from a building.
Improvements, Substantial: Any combination of repairs, reconstruction, alteration, or improvements to a building, taking place during the life of a building, in which the cumulative cost equals or exceeds fifty percent (50%) of the market value of the building. The market value of the building should be:
• The appraised value of the building prior to the start of the initial repair or improvement; or
• In the case of damage, the value of the building prior to the damage occurring.
For the purposes of this definition, the term "substantial improvements" is considered to occur when the first alteration of any wall, ceiling, floor, or other structural part of the building commences, whether or not that alteration affects the external dimensions of the building. The term does not, however, include any project for improvement of a building required to comply with existing health, sanitary, or safety code specifications that are solely necessary to assure safe living conditions.
Intersection: The place where two (2) streets cross, or the point at which the centerline of a street intersects the centerline of another street or railway.
Land Disturbance Permit: Authorization from the local or state regulatory agency to perform construction activities or land-disturbance activities in conformance with an approved soil erosion and sediment control plan and/or minimum standards as provided by law.
Land Disturbing Activity: Any activity which may result in soil erosion from water or wind and the movement of sediments into state waters or onto lands within the state, including, but not limited to, clearing, dredging, grading, excavating, transporting, and filling of land but not including agricultural practices as described in this section.
Land-Lease Community: A residential development where individual homeowners own the residence, but lease the home site from the developer or owner.
Land Use Plan, Comprehensive: The various maps, plats, charts, descriptions, explanatory material, and all textural matter approved by the Pulaski County Sole Commissioner for the purpose of guiding and shaping the growth of the unincorporated area of Pulaski County.
Land Use Plan, Future: A plan that designates the future use or reuse of the land within a given jurisdiction's planning area, and the policies and reasoning used at arriving at the decisions in the plan. The land-use plan serves as a guide to official decisions regarding the distribution and intensity of private development, as well as public decisions on the location of future public facilities and open spaces. It also serves as a basic guide for any zoning and subdivision controls, urban renewal, and capital improvement programs.
Landscape Architect: A registered, practicing landscape architect licensed by the State of Georgia.
Local Government: The governing authority of Pulaski County or any other political subdivision mentioned in this Ordinance.
Lot: A parcel occupied or to be occupied by one (1) or more main buildings and its accessory buildings and has frontage along or legal access to a public right-of-way.
Lot Area: The total horizontal area included within lot lines.
Lot, Corner: A lot abutting upon two (2) or more streets at their intersection.
Lot, Double Frontage: A lot other than a corner lot that has frontage upon two (2) or more streets that do not intersect at a point abutting the property.
Lot, Flag: A lot not fronting or abutting a public roadway and where access to the public roadway is limited to a narrow, private, right-of-way.
Lot, Interior: A lot having bounding on only one (1) street.
Lot Lines: The boundary dividing a given lot from the street, an alley, or adjacent lots.
Lot Lines, Front: In the case of an interior lot, a line separating the lot from a street or place; and in the case of a corner lot, a line separating the narrowest frontage of the lot from the street.
Lot Lines, Rear: (1) The lot line that is opposite and most distant from the front lot line; (2) The rear lot line of an irregular, triangular, or gore lot shall, for the purpose of this Ordinance, be a line entirely within the lot at least ten feet (10') long and parallel to and most distant from the front lot line.
Lot Lines, Side: (1) Any lot line not a front lot line or a rear lot line; (2) A side lot separating a lot from a street is a street lot line; (3) A side lot line separating a lot from another lot is an interior side lot line.
Lot of Record: A lot which is part of a subdivision approved in accordance with land subdivision requirements, a plat of which has been lawfully recorded in the records of the Clerk of the Pulaski County Superior Court; or a parcel of land, the deed of which was lawfully recorded in the same office prior to the adoption date of this Ordinance.
Lot, Reverse Frontage: A double frontage lot that abuts two (2) public streets but is not allowed to have vehicular access to one (1) of them.
Lot Width: The distance between side lot lines measured at the front line of the building located or intended to be located on the lot.
Official Land Use Maps: Official maps of Pulaski County that shows the location of streets, public building sites and public open spaces therefore existing and established by law as public streets, public building sites or public open spaces. This may include mapped boundary lines of future streets, public building sites, public park playgrounds or other public open space areas or of existing sites or areas that are to be expanded.
Opaque: Impenetrable to view, or so obscuring to view that features, buildings, structures, and uses become visually indistinguishable.
Open Space: A parcel or parcels of land or an area of water or a combination of both land and water within the site designated for development and designed and intended for the use and enjoyment of residents of the development or for the general public, not including streets or off-street parking areas. Open space shall be substantially free of structures, but may contain such improvements as are in the plans as finally approved and are appropriate for the benefit of residents of the development.
Owner: Any individual, firm, association, syndicate, partnership, corporation, trust, or any other legal entity having sufficient proprietary interest in the land sought to be subdivided to commence and maintain proceedings to subdivide the same under these regulations.
Parcel: A general term including all plots of land shown with separate identification on the Official Tax Appraisal Maps for Pulaski County. Parcels may or may not be lots, depending upon whether or not such parcels are created as herein provided.
Person: Any individual, partnership, firm, association, joint venture, public or private corporation, trust, estate, commission, board, public or private institution, utility, cooperative, state agency, municipality or other political subdivision of the State, any interstate body, or any other legal entity.
Plat, Final: The plat submitted to the Enforcement Officer for final approval and, subsequently, to be recorded with the Clerk of Superior Court of Pulaski County.
Plat, Preliminary: A tentative subdivision plat, indicating the approximate proposed layout of subdivision as a basis for consideration by the Enforcement Officer before preparation of the final plat and construction drawings and specifications.
Professional Engineer: An engineer duly registered or otherwise authorized by the State of Georgia to practice in the field of civil engineering.
Project: The entire proposed development project regardless of the size of the area of land to be disturbed.
Protective Covenants: Contracts made between private parties as to the manner in which land may be used, with the view toward protecting and preserving the physical and economic integrity of any given area.
Publicly Dedicated: Land or improvements that has or have been transferred by plat or deeded to and accepted by Pulaski County or the City of Hawkinsville for public use and maintenance.
Public Utilities: A service or services provided by a public utility company or a private entity which provides such service or services, and all equipment and structures necessary to provide such services.
Pulaski County Future Land Use Plan: The land use plan created by the citizens of Pulaski County and adopted by the Sole County Commissioner.
Registered Land Surveyor: A surveyor duly registered or otherwise authorized by the State of Georgia to practice in the field of land surveying.
Reserve Strip: A strip or tract of land reserved for the purposes of controlling or limiting access from properties to abutting streets.
Right-of-Way: Access over or across particularly described property for a specific purpose or purposes.
Security Bond: A type of subdivision improvement guarantee in the form of a bond, secured by the subdivider from a bonding company, in an amount specified by the Sole Commissioner to cover costs of required improvements and payable to the County. The County may call in the security bond in the event the subdivider defaults on required improvements.
Sediment: Solid material, both organic and inorganic, that is in suspension, is being transported, or has been moved from its site by origin of air, water, ice, or gravity as a product of erosion.
Sedimentation: The process by which eroded material is transported and deposited by the action of water, wind, ice, or gravity.
Setback: The shortest straight line distance between a street right-of-way or lot line and the nearest point of a structure or building or projection therefrom.
Setback Line, Accessory Structure: A line delineating the minimum allowable distance between a property line or the right-of-way line of an abutting street and an accessory structure or building on a lot.
Setback Line, Front Building: The minimum allowable distance between the right-of-way line of any abutting street and any part of a principal building on a lot. The front setback distance is applied along the full length of the right-of-way line and is parallel to it.
Setback Line, Principal Building: A line delineating the minimum allowable distance between a property line or the right-of-way line of an abutting street and a principal building on a lot.
Setback Line, Rear Building: The minimum allowable distance between a rear lot line and any part of a principal building on a lot. The rear-building setback extends along the full length of the rear lot line.
Setback Line, Side Building: The minimum allowable distance between a side lot line and any part of a principal building on a lot. The side-building setback extends along the side lot line between the front building setback and a rear-building setback.
Sewerage, Public: A sanitary sewerage system for the collection of water-borne wastes complete with a sewage treatment plant that is owned and operated by a public agency or authority.
Shoulder: The portion of a street or road measured from the outer edge of the paved surface or the back of curb to the inside edge of the ditch or gutter or original ground surface.
Sidewalk: The portion of a street or road available exclusively for pedestrian traffic.
Stabilization: The process of establishing an enduring soil cover of vegetation by the installation of temporary or permanent structures for the purpose of reducing to a minimum the erosion process and the resultant transport of sedimentation by wind, water, ice, or gravity.
Storm Water Retention Measures: Any measure designed by a licensed professional and approved by the local government to retain water to control the flow of storm water.
Storage: The placement, keeping, or retention of vehicles, equipment, materials, goods, or products on a temporary basis for intermittent use or subsequent distribution or transfer.
Street: A public or private thoroughfare, which affords the principal means of access to abutting property, roadway, highway, and land.
Alleys: Public or private thoroughfares used primarily as a secondary means of access to the rear or side of properties otherwise abutting on a street.
Arterial Streets: Medium-speed, medium-capacity roadways that provide intra-community travel and access to the countywide highway system. Access to community arterials should be provided at collector roads and local streets.
Collector Streets: Relatively low-speed, low-volume streets that provide circulation within and between neighborhoods. Collectors usually serve short trips and are intended for collecting trips from local streets and distributing them to the arterial network.
Cul-de-sac: A dead-end street of limited length having a primary function of serving adjoining land and constructed with a turn-around at its end.
Dead End: A street connected to another street at only one (1) end.
Expressways/Freeways: Divided highways of four (4) lanes or more that provide a high degree of service to through traffic, designed with no direct access to individual uses on abutting properties that may contain some intersections at grade with traffic controls.
Frontage Roads: Streets adjacent to freeways, expressways or arterial streets separated therefrom by a dividing strip and providing access to abutting properties and adjacent areas, and for control of access. Sometimes also referred to as "marginal access streets."
Minor or Local Commercial and Industrial Streets: Those, which are primarily for access to the abutting properties.
Minor or Local Residential Streets, including Cul-de-sac: Those, which are primarily for access to the abutting properties.
Street, County: A street that is owned or maintained by Pulaski County.
Street Grade: The grade of the curb or centerline of a street measured at any point along the street.
Street Jog: An incidence where two (2) streets or two (2) portions of a single street are separated by a relatively short distance, usually at their intersection with another street.
Street, Private: A road or street that has not been accepted for maintenance by the County and that is not owned or maintained by a State, County, City, or other public entity.
Structure: Anything constructed or erected with a fixed location on the ground or attached to something having a fixed location on the ground. Among other things, structures include but are not limited to buildings, driveways, parking lots, walls, fences, signs, and swimming pools.
Structure, Accessory: A subordinate structure detached from but located on the same lot as a principal building. The use of an accessory structure must be incidental to the use of the principal building. Accessory structures include garages, decks, storage buildings, and fences.
Subdivision: Any division of a tract or parcel of land into two (2) or more lots, building sites, or other divisions of and for the purpose, whether immediate or future, of sale, legacy, or building development, and includes all division of land involving a new street or a change in existing streets, and includes re-subdivision, and, where appropriate, to the context, relates to the process of subdividing or to the land or area subdivided; provided, however, that the following are not included in this definition:
1.
The division of land into parcels of five (5) acres or more where each lot has at least one hundred fifty feet (150') of frontage on an existing public road or street and no new street is involved; or
2.
The division of land into exactly two parcels where no new street is involved and the applicant presents evidence that no previous subdivision of the property has occurred within the past two years.
3.
The division of space into condominium units in accordance with O.C.G.A. § 44-3-70, et seq., not involving any division or separate ownership of land.
(Amended November 22, 2006)
Tangent: The straight-line distance between the ending on one (1) curve of a line (centerline of a street) and the beginning of another curve of the same line (centerline).
Use: The purpose for which land or a building or other structure is designed, arranged, or intended or for which it is or may be occupied or maintained.
Utility or Utility System: Any person engaged in the transmission of energy, including electricity, gas, and water.
Variance: A departure from any provision of this Ordinance for a specific parcel, except use, without changing this Ordinance or the underlying zoning of the parcel. A variance usually is granted only upon demonstration of hardship based on the peculiarity of the property in relation to other properties in the same district.
Wall: Any structure or device forming a physical barrier that is constructed so that the vertical surface is closed, thus preventing the passage of light, air, and vision in a horizontal plane. The material of which a wall is constructed may be of masonry, brick, concrete, metal, wood, or other similar materials. Measurement of height shall be from the high ground.
Wall, Breakaway: A wall that is not part of the structural support of the building and is intended through its design and construction to collapse under specific lateral loading forces without causing damage to the elevated portions of the building or the supporting foundation system.
Water System, Public: A potable water supply and treatment system other than an individual or community water system owned by a unit of government.
Waters of the State: Any and all rivers, streams, creeks, branches, lakes, reservoirs, ponds, drainage systems, springs, wells, and other bodies of surface or subsurface water, natural or artificial, lying within or forming a part of the boundaries of the State which are not entirely confined and retained completely upon the property of a single individual, partnership, or corporation.
Watercourse: A channel in which a flow of water occurs, either continuously or intermittently. Such flow must be in a definite direction and cover a prescribed area. Watercourses may be either natural or artificial, and both may occur either on the surface or underground.
Wetlands: Those areas that are inundated or saturated by surface or groundwater at a frequency and duration sufficient to support, and that under normal circumstances do support, a prevalence of vegetation typically adapted for life in saturated soil conditions. Wetlands generally include swamps, marshes, bogs, and similar areas.
Yard: An area that lies between the principal building on a lot and the nearest lot line.
Yard, Front: A yard situated along any public street right-of-way or private street easement.
