Chapter 12 - COURTS[1]
ARTICLE I. - IN GENERAL

Sec. 12-1. - County jail fund.
(a)
The county board of commissioners imposes an additional penalty of a sum equal to ten percent of the original fine, bail or bond.
(b)
The proceeds of the ten percent penalty shall be used for constructing, operating and staffing jails, correctional institutions and detention facilities within the county. Said funds shall be collected by the clerk or court officer charged with the duty of collecting moneys arising from fines and forfeited bonds and shall be paid to the commissioners by the tenth day of the month following the month in which the sum was collected. Said funds shall be deposited by the county board of commissioners into a special account to be known as the "county jail fund."
(Res. of 2-12-1990)
Sec. 12-2. - County probate court prosecutor.
(a)
Whereas, the county board of commissioners is now desirous of creating the office of the county probate court prosecutor pursuant to O.C.G.A. § 15-9-150 to assist the county probate court in the prosecution of criminal violations.
(b)
Now therefore be it resolved, the county board of commissioners hereby agrees to create the office of the county probate court prosecutor.
(Res. of 7-8-2013)
Secs. 12-3—12-22. - Reserved.
ARTICLE II. - INDIGENT DEFENSE SERVICES

Sec. 12-23. - Application for indigent defense services.
(a)
Each person lacking the financial ability to provide, for themselves, representation in his defense in criminal proceedings in the probate court of the county, and desiring that the county provide such services to him, shall submit an application to the county requesting indigent defense representation and setting forth the specific supporting their need for such indigent representation.
(b)
The application shall be submitted to the public defender at any pretrial hearing on a form approved by the governing authority of the county.
(Ord. of 2-15-2010, § 1)
Sec. 12-24. - Application fee.
Each applicant for indigent defense services shall pay an application fee that shall be in an amount as established by the county council from time to time to the clerk of the court in which indigent representation is being sought. Such fee must be paid either at the time the application is submitted or at the time the representation is provided.
(Ord. of 2-15-2010, § 2)
Sec. 12-25. - Waiver.
The fee required by section 12-24 may be waived only upon order of the presiding judge scheduled to hear the case in which the applicant is seeking a waiver of the application fee. The judge may order a waiver of the fee only upon a finding by the court that the defendant is unable to pay the fee or that paying the fee would cause hardship to the defendant.
(Ord. of 2-15-2010, § 3)
Sec. 12-26. - Transfer of funds.
Within ten days after the end of each month, the clerk of the probate court shall remit the total of all application fees collected during the previous month to the governing authority of the county.
(Ord. of 2-15-2010, § 4)
Sec. 12-27. - Separate account.
The funds remitted to the governing authority pursuant to section 12-26, shall be maintained in a separate fund for indigent defense services and shall be expended only for the purpose of providing legal representation to indigent defendants in the probate court of the county.
(Ord. of 2-15-2010, § 5)
