Chapter 30 - SOLID WASTE[1]
ARTICLE I. - IN GENERAL

Sec. 30-1. - Definitions.
The following words, terms and phrases, when used in this chapter, shall have the meanings ascribed to them in this section, except where the context clearly indicates a different meaning:
Garbage means rubbish, trash, household waste, paper and cardboard containers, cans, bottles and the like which usually and customarily originate within a place of business or residence.
Garbage container means a can or container of any size placed in the county for the collection of garbage.
(Ord. of 5-8-1995, preamble)
Sec. 30-2. - Littering prohibited; generally.
It shall be unlawful for any person to throw, drop, cast, or deposit upon any highway, alley, or any yard or premises, public or private, any filth of any kind, or cans, paper, trash, paper containers, rubbish, bottles, or any other form of litter or waste whatsoever.
(Ord. of 5-8-1995, § 1)
Sec. 30-3. - Items other than garbage.
It shall be unlawful for any person or persons to place, put or throw on, in or upon any garbage container, any object of whatever size or description except garbage which consist of rubbish, trash, household waste, paper and cardboard containers, cans, bottles and the like which usually and customarily originate within a place of business or residence.
(Ord. of 5-8-1995, § 2)
Sec. 30-4. - Rummaging through garbage prohibited.
It shall be unlawful for any person, other than designated employees in performing their normal duties, to rummage through, separate or remove any object placed in or upon such garbage container.
(Ord. of 5-8-1995, § 3)
Sec. 30-5. - Defacing garbage prohibited.
It shall be unlawful for any person to paint upon, deface or in any way cause any damage whatsoever to any garbage container placed upon the premises for the collection of garbage.
(Ord. of 5-8-1995, § 4)
Sec. 30-6. - Penalty.
Any person who shall violate any provision of this chapter shall be punished according to the general penalties described in section 1-14 and also shall be subject to criminal prosecution by the proper authorities as provided by law and the ordinance of the county.
(Ord. of 5-8-1995, § 5)
Sec. 30-7. - Adopt the county solid waste management plan.
The county chairperson and the county commissioners do hereby adopt the 2015 Lanier County Solid Waste Management Plan amendment to the South Georgia Multi-Jurisdictional Solid Waste Management Plan and transmit notification to the South Georgia Regional Development Center and the state department of community affairs for certification of completion.
(Res. of 6-13-2005)
Secs. 30-8—30-32. - Reserved.
ARTICLE II. - COLLECTION AND DISPOSAL SERVICES

Sec. 30-33. - Title.
This article shall be known as the "Ordinance Regulating the Provision of and Assessment of Fees for Residential Solid Waste Services within the Unincorporated Areas of Lanier County."
(Ord. of 2-8-1999, § 1)
Sec. 30-34. - Authority.
This article is authorized under article IX, § II, ¶ III(2) of the state constitution.
(Ord. of 2-8-1999, § 2)
Sec. 30-35. - Scope of article.
The scope of this article shall include all dwelling units within the unincorporated areas of the county.
(Ord. of 2-8-1999, § 3)
Sec. 30-36. - Compliance.
The owner and/or resident of each dwelling unit within the unincorporated areas of the county shall dispose of all residential solid waste in compliance with all state and federal laws, and in compliance with the terms of this chapter.
(Ord. of 2-8-1999, § 4)
Sec. 30-37. - Definitions.
The following words, terms and phrases, when used in this article, shall have the meanings ascribed to them in this section, except where the context clearly indicates a different meaning:
Dwelling unit means one or more rooms with kitchen facilities designed as a unit for occupancy by one family for cooking, living and sleeping purposes.
(Ord. of 2-8-1999, § 5)
Sec. 30-38. - Services and payment of fees.
(a)
All fees imposed under this article shall be due and payable monthly within 30 days of invoice.
(b)
The resident and/or owner of each dwelling unit shall pay a fee for residential solid waste services in an amount as set by the commissioners of the county and shall use the residential solid waste services provided or, if such dwelling unit is occupied by someone other than the owner, the owner shall require as a condition of occupancy that the occupant utilize such residential solid waste services.
(c)
A notice of payment due shall be mailed to the resident and/or owner of each dwelling unit monthly, on the first business day of the month in which services are to be rendered.
(d)
Any account which has not been paid in full after 45 days from the date of invoice may be turned over to an agency or attorney for purposes of collection through any lawful means, upon the sole discretion of the commissioners of the county.
(e)
The fee for residential solid waste services will be due and owing by the resident and/or owner of each dwelling unit each month, regardless of whether a notice is sent to or received by the resident and/or owner.
(f)
A statement of the account and past balances of an owner and/or resident of a dwelling unit may be mailed to the owner from time to time when outstanding balances for monthly fees remain unpaid.
(g)
An owner of a dwelling unit may designate the occupant thereof to make payment of the fees. However, the owner of the dwelling unit will remain legally responsible for payment of the fees.
(h)
Upon notice to the county board of commissioners that a resident and/or owner has not paid the invoice for services, a letter will be mailed requesting that said sums be paid within ten days. If said fee is not paid, said account will be turned over to the magistrate court of the county.
(Ord. of 2-8-1999, § 6)
Sec. 30-39. - Violation and misdemeanor.
Any person violating any provision of this chapter shall, upon conviction, be deemed guilty of a misdemeanor and shall be punished according to the general penalties described in section 1-14.
(Ord. of 2-8-1999, § 7)
