Title 600 - PLANNING AND DEVELOPMENT
EXPAND
Ch. 600.10. In General (Reserved)
Ch. 600.20. Joint Development Authority
  CHAPTER 600.20. - JOINT DEVELOPMENT AUTHORITY
EXPAND
Article I. Generally
600.20.001. Constitutional authority.
600.20.002—600.20.020. Reserved.
Article II. Gainesville and Hall County Development Authority
600.20.021. Short title.
600.20.022. Creation; status; membership.
600.20.023. Definitions.
600.20.024. Authority to enter into contracts.
600.20.025. Quorum.
600.20.026. General powers.
600.20.027. Additional powers under Development Authorities Law.
600.20.028. Notes, bonds, etc.
600.20.029. Debts.
600.20.030. Annual audit.
600.20.031. Intent; construction.
600.20.032. Severability.
  ARTICLE I. - GENERALLY

Sec. 600.20.001. - Constitutional authority.
A.
[Created.] There is hereby created a body corporate and politic in Gainesville and Hall County to be known as the Gainesville and Hall County Development Authority, which shall be an instrumentality of Gainesville and Hall County and a public corporation and which in this amendment is hereafter referred to as the "authority."
B.
[Members.] The authority shall consist of nine members, four to be appointed by the commissioners of Hall County, four to be appointed by the commissioners of the City of Gainesville, and one to be elected by the members of the authority for a full four-year term, who shall have control, duties, powers and authority as are hereby conferred and as may be prescribed or provided for by the general assembly of Georgia, and such additional powers as may be delegated to the authority by the County of Hall and the City of Gainesville. Members of the authority shall be residents of Hall County, within or without the municipality located therein. The first appointments shall be for terms of one, two, three and four years. Thereafter all terms and appointments, except in case of a vacancy, shall be for four years. The general assembly shall provide for appointment of the authority. The authority shall elect a chairman, a vice-chairman and a secretary-treasurer. The secretary-treasurer shall not be required to be a member of the authority.
C.
[Bonds.] All debentures, notes, bonds, and revenue bonds or obligations issued by the authority shall have the same immunity from taxation as the obligations and interest on the obligations of Gainesville and Hall County.
D.
[Powers.] The powers of the authority shall include, but not be limited to, the power:
(1)
To receive and administer gifts, grants and donations and to administer trusts;
(2)
To borrow money, to issue notes, bonds and revenue obligations, to execute trust agreements or indentures, and to sell, convey, mortgage, pledge and assign any and all of its funds, property, contract rights, and income as security therefor;
(3)
To contract with political subdivisions of the State of Georgia and with private persons and corporations and to sue and be sued in its corporate name;
(4)
To have and exercise usual powers of private corporations except such as are inconsistent with this amendment, including the power to appoint and hire officers, agents and employees and to provide their compensation and duties, which officers and agents may or may not be members of the authority, and the power to adopt and amend a corporate seal and by laws and regulations for the conduct and management of the authority;
(5)
To encourage and promote the expansion and development of industrial and commercial facilities in Gainesville and Hall County so as to relieve, insofar as possible, unemployment within its boundaries, and to that end to acquire by purchase or gift any building or structure within the limits of Gainesville and Hall County, suitable for and intended for use as a factory, mill, shop, processing plant, assembly plant or fabricating plant, including all necessary and appurtenant lands and appurtenances thereto, and all necessary or useful furnishings, machinery and equipment. Such acquisition may be through the acquisition of land and the construction thereon of a building, including the demolition of existing structures, or through the acquisition of an existing building and the remodeling, renovating, reconstructing, furnishing and equipping of such building;
(6)
No building acquired hereunder shall be operated by the authority but shall be leased or sold to one or more persons, firms, or corporations. If sold, the purchase price may be paid at one time or in installments falling due in not more than thirty (30) years from the date of transfer of possession. The lessee or purchaser shall be required to pay all costs of operating and maintaining the building or buildings and to pay rentals or installments sufficient, together with other revenues which may be pledged for the purpose, to retire all bonds, both principal and interest, and to pay all other expenses which the authority may have incurred in connection with the undertaking.
(7)
To accumulate its funds from year to year and to invest accumulated funds in any manner that public funds of the State of Georgia or any of its political subdivisions may be invested;
(8)
To designate officers to sign and act for the authority generally or in any specific matter;
(9)
To do any and all acts and things necessary or convenient to accomplish the purpose and powers of the authority as herein stated.
E.
[Debt.] The authority shall not be authorized to create in any manner any debt, liability or obligation against the State of Georgia or Hall County, or the City of Gainesville.
F.
[Members.] The members of the authority shall receive no compensation for their services to the authority.
G.
[Bonds.] In order to finance any undertaking within the scope of its power or to refund any bonds then outstanding, the authority is hereby authorized to issue bonds bearing rate or rates of interest and maturing at the years and amounts determined by the authority and the procedure of validation, issuance and delivery shall be in all respects in accordance with the Revenue Bond Law (Ga. L. 1937, p. 761), as amended, Ga. Code Ann. Supp. chapter 87-8, as if said obligations had been originally authorized to be issued thereunder; provided, however, that any property, real or personal in existence or anticipated, of the authority may be pledged, mortgaged, conveyed, assigned, hypothecated or otherwise encumbered as security for any lawful debt of the authority. The authority may execute any trust agreement or indenture not in conflict with the provisions of this amendment to provide security for any bonds issued as provided herein, and such trust agreements or indenture may provide for foreclosure or forced sale of any property of the authority upon default on such bonds either in payment of principal or interest or under any term or condition under which such bonds are issued. Nothing herein contained shall be construed to create a right to compel any exercise of the taxing power of the City of Gainesville or of Hall County to pay such bonds or the interest thereon nor to enforce payment thereof against any property of the City of Gainesville or Hall County.
H.
[Additional bonds.] The authority may authorize additional bonds, for extensions and permanent improvements to any industrial building acquired hereunder, to be placed in escrow and to be negotiated from time to time as proceeds for that purpose may become necessary. Bonds so placed in escrow shall, when sold and delivered, have such standing with the bonds of the same issue as may be provided in the authorizing proceedings.
I.
[Gifts.] No moneys derived by the authority from any source other than gifts and contributions from private individuals, firms or corporations shall at any time be used for entertainment, or other promotional expenses.
J.
[Property.] Should said authority for any reason be dissolved, title to all property of every kind and nature, real and personal, held by the authority at the time of such dissolution shall revert to Gainesville and Hall County, subject to any mortgages, liens, leases or other encumbrances outstanding against or in respect to said property at that time.
K.
[Purpose.] This amendment is adopted for the purpose of promoting and expanding for the public good and welfare industry and trade within Gainesville or Hall County and reducing unemployment to the greatest extent possible, and this amendment and any law enacted with reference to the authority shall be liberally construed for the accomplishment of these purposes.
L.
[Effective date.] This amendment shall be effective immediately upon proclamation of its ratification by the governor, and the first members of the authority shall be appointed within thirty (30) days after such proclamation.
M.
[General assembly.] The general assembly may by law further define and prescribe the powers and duties of the authority and the exercise thereof, and may enlarge and restrict the same, and may likewise further regulate the management and conduct of the authority. The authority shall be an instrumentality of Gainesville and Hall County and the scope of its operation shall be limited to the territory embraced within said city or county. The general assembly shall not extend the jurisdiction of the authority nor the scope of its operations beyond such limits.
[N.
Effect on 1962 amendment.] The provisions of this amendment shall supersede an amendment creating the Gainesville and Hall County Development Authority ratified at the November 1962 general election and found in Georgia Laws 1961, p. 600. All actions and proceedings taken under the provisions of any law passed pursuant to the aforesaid amendment are hereby ratified and confirmed in the same manner as if the provisions contained herein had been in effect. The authority created hereunder shall be the successor to the authority crated pursuant to the aforesaid amendment and shall succeed to all the powers of the authority created pursuant to the aforesaid amendment and the assets and obligations of such authority shall be the assets and obligations of the authority created herein.
(1966 Ga. Laws (Act No. 121), p. 866, § 1)
Editor's note— Section 600.20.001 is a local amendment to Ga. Const. (1945). Such amendment was continued in force and effect by 1986 Ga. Laws (Act No. 1008), p. 4321.
Secs. 600.20.002—600.20.020. - Reserved.
ARTICLE II. - GAINESVILLE AND HALL COUNTY DEVELOPMENT AUTHORITY

Sec. 600.20.021. - Short title.
This act may be cited as the "Gainesville and Hall County Development Authority."
(1964 Ga. Laws (Act No. 635), p. 2282, § 1)
Sec. 600.20.022. - Creation; status; membership.
There is hereby created a body corporate and politic to be known as the "Gainesville and Hall County Development Authority" which shall be deemed to be an instrumentality of the State of Georgia and a public corporation, and by that time, style and title said body may contract and be contracted with, sue and be sued, plead and be impleaded, and complain and defend in all courts of law and equity. The authority shall consist of nine (9) members who shall be residents of Hall County within or without the corporate limits of the City of Gainesville, and not less than thirty (30) years of age at the time of appointment. In making the nominations and appointments of members of the authority, not more than one member should be selected from any one family, partnership, or other business organization. The members shall be selected in the following manner: Immediately after the approval of this act the directors of the Gainesville-Hall County Chamber of Commerce shall select and nominate persons for appointment and submit eight or more names to the county and eight or more names to the city. From such lists of nominees the commission of the City of Gainesville and the commissioners of Hall County each shall appoint four members of the authority. The eight appointed members shall select a ninth member to serve a full term. For the first appointments the county and the city shall each appoint one person for one year, one for two years, one for three years, and one for four years. Thereafter all terms and appointments, except in case of a vacancy, shall be for four years. In the event any vacancy occurs in the county group, the county shall fill by appointment such vacancy for the unexpired term. In the event a vacancy occurs in the city group, the city shall fill by appointment such vacancy for the unexpired term. In making any appointment for a vacancy or after the expiration of a term the city and county shall request two nominations for each member to be appointed from the directors of the chamber of commerce. The governing authorities of the County of Hall and/or the City of Gainesville may, in their discretion, request the directors of the chamber of commerce to submit additional names before making the first appointments or any subsequent appointment to the membership of the authority. If no nomination is made within ten days after such request, the appointment shall be made without any nomination. A member who has served a full four-year term shall not be eligible for reappointment until the lapse of one year after the expiration of his four-year term. The authority shall elect a chairman, a vice-chairman and a secretary-treasurer, or a secretary and a treasurer. Neither the secretary nor the treasurer shall be required to be a member of the authority. One city commissioner selected by the city commission and one county commissioner selected by the county commissioners shall be the ex-officio members of the authority. The members of the authority shall be entitled to no compensation. However, all members shall be reimbursed for actual expenses incurred in the performance of their duties.
(1964 Ga. Laws (Act No. 635), p. 2282, § 2)
Sec. 600.20.023. - Definitions.
As used in this act, the following words and terms shall have the following meanings, unless a different meaning clearly appears from the context:
(a)
The word "authority" shall mean the "Gainesville and Hall County Development Authority" created by this act and by and under article VII, section V, paragraph I of the Constitution of the State of Georgia.
(b)
The word "project" shall be deemed to mean and include the acquisition of lands, properties, and improvements for development, expansion and promotion of industry, commerce, agriculture, natural resources and vocational training; the construction of buildings and plants for the purpose of selling, leasing or renting such structures to private persons, firms or corporations. The word "project" shall also mean and include the acquisition, development and management of a site or sites deemed suitable for an industrial park or parks. For purposes of the preceding sentence, the term "development" shall include making provision for water, sewage, drainage, transportation, power, communication and/or similar facilities which are incidental to the use of a site as the industrial park.
(c)
The term "cost of project" shall embrace the cost of construction, the cost of all lands, properties, easements, rights and franchises acquired, the cost of machinery and equipment, financing charges, interest prior to and during construction and for one year after completion of construction, cost of engineering, architectural and legal expense, and plans and specifications and other expenses necessary or incident to determining the feasibility or practicability of the project, administrative expenses, and such other expenses as may be necessary or incident to the financing herein authorized, the construction of any project and placing the same in operation.
(1964 Ga. Laws (Act No. 635), p. 2282, § 3; 1978 Ga. Laws (Act No. 920), p. 3579, § 1)
Sec. 600.20.024. - Authority to enter into contracts.
The County of Hall and the City of Gainesville are expressly authorized to enter into contracts with the authority as a public corporation.
(1964 Ga. Laws (Act No. 635), p. 2282, § 4)
Sec. 600.20.025. - Quorum.
Any five members shall constitute a quorum for the transaction of the ordinary business of the authority; however, any action with respect to any project of the authority must be approved by not less than five affirmative votes.
(1964 Ga. Laws (Act No. 635), p. 2282, § 5)
Sec. 600.20.026. - General powers.
The authority shall have powers:
(a)
To have a seal and alter the same at pleasure.
(b)
To acquire, hold and dispose of personal property, including the stock of other corporations, for its corporate purposes.
(c)
To enter into contracts with the County of Hall and the City of Gainesville.
(d)
To acquire in its own name by purchase, on such terms and conditions, and in such manner as it may deem proper, real property or liens or easements therein or franchises necessary or convenient for its corporate purposes, and to use the same, and to lease or make contracts with respect to the use of or dispose of same in any manner the authority deems to its best advantage. If the authority shall deem it expedient to construct any project or use any project already constructed on lands, the title to which shall then be in the County of Hall or the City of Gainesville, the governing authorities of Hall County and the City of Gainesville are authorized in their discretion to convey title to such lands, including any improvements thereon, to the authority.
(e)
To appoint and select officers, agents, and employees including engineers, architects, builders, and attorneys, and to fix their compensation.
(f)
To make contracts, and to execute all instruments necessary or convenient, including contracts for construction of projects and leases and rentals and sales of projects, or contracts with respect to the use of projects, which it erects or acquires. The County of Hall and the City of Gainesville are hereby expressly authorized and empowered to enter into agreements with the authority for use by the authority of funds collected by special tax levies by the county and city for development purposes.
(g)
To construct, erect, acquire, own, repair, remodel, maintain, extend, improve, equip, operate and manage projects, self-liquidating or otherwise, located on property owned or leased by the authority, and to pay the cost of any such project from the proceeds of revenue anticipation certificates of the authority or from any grant from the County of Hall or City of Gainesville, or from any contribution or loans by persons, firms, or corporations, all of which the authority is hereby authorized to receive and accept and use.
(h)
To borrow money for any of its corporate purposes and to execute notes, mortgages, deeds to secure debt, trust deeds and such other instruments as may be necessary or convenient to evidence and secure such borrowing.
(i)
To exercise any power granted by the laws of the State of Georgia to public or private corporations, performing similar functions, which is not in conflict with the Constitution and laws of the State of Georgia.
(j)
To do all things necessary or convenient to carry out the powers expressly conferred by this act.
(k)
To adopt, alter or repeal its own by-laws, rules and regulations governing the manner in which its business may be transacted and in which the power granted to it may be enjoyed, as the authority may deem necessary or expedient in facilitating its business.
(l)
To issue revenue anticipation certificates for the purpose of paying all or any part of the cost of any project of the authority. Such revenue anticipation certificates shall be issued and validated under and in accordance with the applicable provisions of the act of the General Assembly of 1937 (Ga. Laws 1937, pp. 761—774), and as subsequently amended, providing for the issuance of revenue anticipation certificates.
(1964 Ga. Laws (Act No. 635), p. 2282, § 6)
Sec. 600.20.027. - Additional powers under Development Authorities Law.
In addition to any other powers granted to the Gainesville and Hall County Development Authority and without limiting any such powers, said authority is hereby granted all powers granted to the authorities under the Development Authorities Law, approved March 28, 1969 (Ga. Laws 1969, p. 137 et seq.), as now or hereafter amended.
In addition to any other projects regarding which the Gainesville and Hall County Development Authority may exercise its powers and duties and without limiting any such projects, such powers and duties may also be exercised regarding any "project" and "cost of project" as defined in the Development Authorities Law, approved March 28, 1969 (Ga. Laws 1969, p. 137 et seq.), as now or hereafter amended.
(1982 Ga. Laws (Act No. 1066), p. 4300, §§ 2, 3)
Sec. 600.20.028. - Notes, bonds, etc.
All debentures, notes, bonds, and revenue anticipation certificates issued by the authority shall be exempt from state and local taxation.
(1964 Ga. Laws (Act No. 635), p. 2282, § 7)
Sec. 600.20.029. - Debts.
The authority shall not be empowered or authorized in any manner to create a debt as against the State of Georgia, the County of Hall or the City of Gainesville.
(1964 Ga. Laws (Act No. 635), p. 2282, § 8)
Sec. 600.20.030. - Annual audit.
The books and records of the authority shall be audited at least annually, at the expense of the authority, by a competent auditor. The authority shall furnish copies of said audit to the County of Hall and the City of Gainesville.
(1964 Ga. Laws (Act No. 635), p. 2282, § 9)
Sec. 600.20.031. - Intent; construction.
This act being for the purpose of developing and promoting the public good and the welfare of the County of Hall and the City of Gainesville and their inhabitants, shall be liberally construed to effect the purposes hereof.
(1964 Ga. Laws (Act No. 635), p. 2282, § 10)
Sec. 600.20.032. - Severability.
The provisions of this act are severable, and if any of its provisions shall be held unconstitutional by any court of competent jurisdiction, the decision of such court shall not affect or impair any of the remaining provisions.
(1964 Ga. Laws (Act No. 635), p. 2282, § 11)
