CHAPTER 2.60. - PLANNING COMMISSION[5]
EXPAND
2.60.010. Membership.
2.60.020. Organization; proceedings.
2.60.030. Powers and duties.
2.60.040. Actions by planning commission.
2.60.050. Deadline of applications for appeals.
2.60.060. Effective period of approved applications.
2.60.070. Exercise of board powers.
2.60.080. Conditions of board decisions.
2.60.090. Appeal of board decisions.
 
Footnotes:
--- (5) ---
Editor's note— Res. of March 27, 2003, § 2, repealed Ch. 2.60, in its entirety, which pertained to the planning commission. Section 3 of said resolution added provisions designated as a new Ch. 2.60, to read as herein set out. See the Code Comparative Table for a detailed analysis of inclusion. Also, it should be noted that the provisions of Ch. 2.60 are printed both in title 2 and in appendix A to title 17. When future amendments to the chapter are incorporated in the Code, the provisions should be updated at both locations.
Cross reference— Subdivisions, tit. 16; zoning regulations, tit. 17; uses subject to approval of planning commission or zoning board of adjustment, ch. 17.350.

2.60.010. - Membership.
The Hall County Planning Commission shall consist of five members, who shall be residents of the county, appointed by the board of commissioners. The current members are reappointed to terms expiring on January 31, 2005. Beginning February 1, 2005, and every two years thereafter, each member of the Hall County Board of Commissioners shall appoint one member for a two-year term to the planning commission. Each two-year term will begin February 1, and expire January 31, or continue until his or her successor is appointed. Any vacancy in membership shall be filled for the unexpired term by the board of commissioners who shall have the authority to remove any member for cause on written charges after a public hearing. The unexcused absence of a planning commission member from three consecutive regularly scheduled meetings without prior notice to the chairman of the planning commission or the planning commission staff office shall terminate said member's appointment. Members of the planning commission shall be reimbursed and/or compensated for their services pursuant to direction and approval of the Hall County Commission.
(Res. of 3-27-03, § 3)
2.60.020. - Organization; proceedings.
The chairman of the planning commission shall be elected from its members and approved by the board of commissioners. The term of the chairman shall be one year with eligibility for re-election. The planning commission shall appoint a secretary, who may be an officer or employee of the county. The planning commission shall adopt its own rules of procedure and determine its time of meeting. All meetings of the planning commission at which official action is taken shall be open to the public and all records of the planning commission shall be a public record.
(Res. of 3-27-03, § 3)
2.60.030. - Powers and duties.
The planning commission shall have the following powers and duties:
A.
To accept applications and make findings and recommendations at a public hearing for all amendments to Title 17 and forward said recommendations to the county board of commissioners. (See Chapter 17.370 of this Code);
B.
To grant application for all conditional uses, site plan review as specified by Title 17 and uses subject to the approval of the planning commission, provided that the standards and requirements of Title 17 are met. (See Chapter 17.350 of this Code). If a public hearing is required by Title 17 for a particular use or amendment, a sign shall be posted at least 15 days prior to said public hearing in a conspicuous place on the property and shall state the nature of the request and the time and place of said public hearing. Further, the staff shall notify each adjoining property owner at their address, as shown by the records of the board of tax assessors, by mail postmarked at least five days prior to said planning commission hearing on the application;
C.
To review preliminary subdivision plats and grant development approval for same when required under the provisions of Titles 16 and 17;
D.
To review final subdivision plats and grant recording and approval permits for subdivision when required under the provisions of Titles 16 and 17;
E.
To initiate, direct and review from time to time a study of the provisions of Title 17 and to make reports of its findings and recommendations as to amendments to the board of commissioners of the county;
F.
To investigate and make recommendations to the county commission regarding the acceptance and classification of county roads;
G.
To accept and determine requests regarding unclassified uses as per Chapter 17.330;
H.
To hear and take action on appeals of determinations and decisions made by the planning department as specified by Title 17;
I.
The planning commission shall make such determinations, shall investigate such matters relating to the planning and development of the county and take such action as required by Title 17 and the laws of the state.
J.
To authorize upon appeal in specific cases such variances as will not be contrary to the public interest where, owing to special conditions, a literal enforcement of the provisions of Title 17 will, in an individual case, result in unnecessary hardship and so that the spirit of Title 17 shall be observed, public safety and welfare secured, and substantial justice done. In cases involving requests for variances from the building setback standards, a plat or survey of the property is required. In cases involving setback variances for commercial or industrial uses of land, a site plan of the property in question prepared by a registered land surveyor, architect, landscape architect or engineer shall be required. The authority to grant such variances shall be limited to variances from the following requirements:
1.
Setbacks from property lines.
2.
Planted buffers and vision clearance requirements.
3.
Off-street parking space requirements.
4.
Other requirements where the granting of a variance is specifically authorized.
K.
Such variances may be granted in such individual cases of unnecessary hardship upon a finding of the board that:
1.
There are extraordinary and exceptional conditions pertaining to the particular lot in question because of its size, shape or topography (the hardship must relate to the physical character of the lot and not to a personal or economic hardship);
2.
The application of the requirements of this Title 17 to this particular piece of property would create an unusual hardship;
3.
Such conditions are peculiar to the particular piece of property involved and are not common to other properties in the neighborhood; and
4.
Such conditions are not the result of any actions of the property owner; and
5.
Relief, if granted, would not cause substantial detriment to the public good or impair the purposes and intent of Title 17; provided, however, that no variance may be granted for a use of land or building or structure that is prohibited by Title 17 or for a conditional use which has been denied by the county planning commission.
L.
To hear and decide such conditional uses as the board is required to act upon under the terms of Title 17.
M.
To receive and act upon applications for the change, continuance and/or enlargement of a nonconforming use as provided in Chapter 17.340 of these regulations.
N.
To hear and decide appeals where it is alleged there is error in any order, requirement, decision or determination made by an administrative official in the enforcement of Title 17.
O.
To perform other duties as from time to time may be delegated by the Hall County Commission.
(Res. of 3-27-03, § 3)
2.60.040. - Actions by planning commission.
A.
From the effective date of this chapter, forward, all references to the zoning board of adjustment as found in the Official Code of Hall County, Georgia, shall be understood to refer to the Hall County Planning Commission.
B.
In all actions or decisions of the planning commission, three members being present shall constitute a quorum with a majority vote of the quorum constituting an official action or decision of the planning commission. Each official action, with the full text of the motion and record of members' votes shall be incorporated in the minutes of the planning commission. If an application for a conditional use or a use permitted subject to approval of the planning commission is denied by the planning commission, then the same property may not again be considered for any zoning application and no application shall be filed until the expiration of at least six months immediately following the denial of the application and may not be considered for an application of the same type, and no application shall be filed (conditional use, etc.) until the expiration of at least six months immediately following the denial of the application.
(Res. of 3-27-03, § 3)
2.60.050. - Deadline for applications for appeals.
All applications for proposed appeals, whether an appeal for a variance from the building setback standards, conditional use, a nonconforming use or an appeal of a decision by an administrative official, shall be submitted to the office of the planning department at least 15 working days in advance of the next regular meeting of the planning commission.
(Res. of 3-27-03, § 3)
2.60.060. - Effective period of approved applications.
All applications approved by the board, whether a request for variance from the terms of Title 17, a request for conditional use, a request for the enlargement, change or continuance of a nonconforming use or a request to appeal a decision by an administrative official in the enforcement of Title 17, shall be effective for a period of six months. If no action is taken by the applicant to implement the purpose of the application by obtaining the proper permit and/or license and proceeding with the building, occupancy or establishment of business within six months from the date of approval by the board, said approval shall become null and void.
(Res. of 3-27-03, § 3)
2.60.070. - Exercise of planning commission powers.
In exercising the above powers, the planning commission may, in conformity with the provisions of Title 17, reverse or affirm, wholly or in part, or may have all powers of the officer from whom the application is taken, and may direct the issuance of a building permit, occupancy permit or certificate of zoning compliance. In no case shall the powers of the board be construed to include authority to reclassify use zones.
(Res. of 3-27-03, § 3)
2.60.080. - Conditions of planning commission decisions.
In exercising the above powers, the planning commission may place any reasonable conditions or stipulations upon a conditional use, variance, etc., as deemed necessary (such as hours of operation, parking, maximum building size, outside displays, time limits, etc.) to further insure the orderly operation of the proposed use and its compatibility with the surrounding properties.
(Res. of 3-27-03, § 3)
2.60.090. - Appeal of planning commission decisions.
Any decision of the planning commission may be appealed to the board of commissioners in accordance with Chapter 17.370 of this Code.
(Res. of 3-27-03, § 3)
