CHAPTER 2.120. - CIVIL SERVICE SYSTEM ACT[11]

Footnotes:
--- (11) ---
Cross reference— Affirmative action program, ch. 2.90; sexual harassment complaint procedure, § 2.90.350; employee pension and retirement program, ch. 2.100.

2.120.010. - Act revised in entirety.
An Act of the General Assembly of Georgia entitled "Hall County Civil Service System Act," approved April 4, 1967 (1967 Georgia Laws, pages 2556—2561), is amended in entirety by deleting all existing provisions and inserting in lieu thereof a new "Hall County Civil Service System Act" to read as follows:
CIVIL SERVICE SYSTEM ACT
Section I. PURPOSE.
This action shall be known and may be cited as the "Hall County Civil Service Act". The general purpose of this Act is to establish a Civil Service System for Hall County, Georgia, providing for the recruitment, selection, development, and retention of an effective work force of capable, diligent, and honest employees. The Civil Service System shall include policies for employee hiring and advancement, training, career development and performance evaluation, employee relations, and the disposition of employee grievances, discipline, discharge, and related activities. It shall be the purpose of the Act to establish a Civil Service System in which all personnel matters shall be determined solely on the basis of merit and qualifications, without regard to race, color, sex, age, national origin, disability, or political affiliation.
Section II. MEMBERSHIP AND EXEMPT INDIVIDUALS.
There is hereby created and established a civil service system to be known as the Hall County Civil Service System. All Hall County employees, now employed or hereafter employed, and all employees and deputies, now employed or hereafter employed, of the Hall County Sheriff, the Hall County Probate Judge, the Hall County Clerk of Superior Court, and the Hall County Tax Commissioner shall be members of the Hall County Civil Service System. The following shall not be members of the Hall County Civil Service System: elected officers of the County, employees of the Magistrate, Juvenile, State and Superior Courts; the District Attorney; the Hall County Solicitor; members of appointed boards, members of commissions and authorities, part-time employees, temporary employees, interns, and all employees, who as of the date of adoption of this amendment, currently have a contractual employment relationship with Hall County and all employees in the future, who, at the time of hire, by agreement with the hiring authority and with approval of the County Administrator, will enter into a contractual employment agreement instead of the Civil Service System.
Section III. APPOINTMENT AND COMPENSATION OF ADMINISTRATIVE HEARING OFFICER.
A.
The Hall County Board of Commissioners shall select an independent, impartial attorney who has been a member of the State Bar of Georgia for at least five (5) years to serve as Administrative Hearing Officer in matters for which a hearing is allowed under Section IV. The Administrative Hearing Officer shall not be a current or former employee of Hall County and shall receive such per diem compensation, if any, as deemed appropriate by the Hall County Board of Commissioners. The Administrative Hearing Officer shall serve at the pleasure of the Board of Commissioners of Hall County.
B.
Duties of the Administrative Hearing Officer shall include:
1.
To conduct hearings and render decisions on charges preferred against persons employed in the several departments and offices included in said Civil Service System and to hear appeals from any employee included in the Civil Service System who claims to have been improperly suspended without pay, demoted, or dismissed. All testimony before the hearing officer shall be transcribed, rendered under oath or affirmation, by oral testimony, depositions, or interrogatories, and with the right of cross examination. All decisions of the hearing officer shall be entered into a written record which shall be open to inspection by the public during regular office hours. The authority of the hearing officer while hearing employee appeals shall be limited to determining if management's decision is supported by the evidence, lies within the lawful discretion of management, and is consistent with County policies and procedures.
2.
The Administrative Hearing Officer shall keep and maintain an accurate written record of his/her hearings and proceedings and shall be furnished clerical assistance by the governing authority to keep and maintain his/her records.
3.
The Administrative Hearing Officer shall be authorized to make recommendations as to amendments, additions to, and changes in the Hall County Government Employee's Handbook and Policy Guidelines from time to time, and when said amendments, changes, or additions are adopted by the governing authority of Hall County, said amendments shall have the force of law and be binding on all parties affected by said Civil Service System.
Section IV. ADMINISTRATIVE HEARING OFFICER HEARINGS.
A.
It shall be the duty, function and responsibility of the Administrative Hearing Officer to represent the interest of the public in the improvement of personnel administration and the selection and retention of qualified personnel. All hearings before the Administrative Hearing Officer shall be open and held in offices provided, therefore, by the governing authority of Hall County. The governing authority of said County is hereby authorized to provide necessary clerical assistance to the Administrative Hearing Officer. Said Administrative Hearing Officer shall conduct scheduled hearings, and may hold additional hearings as may be required for the proper discharge of his/her duties.
B.
In any appeal by an employee, it shall be the burden of the employee to establish and verify the action in question:
1.
does not substantially comply with sound management principles, consistent with the rules and regulations of the Hall County Civil Service Act;
2.
is not supported by a preponderance of the evidence; and
3.
is not reasonable or relative to the severity of the offense.
Section V. HALL COUNTY DIRECTOR OF HUMAN RESOURCES.
The duties and functions of the Hall County Director of Human Resources shall be as follows:
A.
To prepare and submit proposed rules and regulations and standards of the Civil Service System or amendments thereto and thereafter, recommend to the governing authority of Hall County the adoption of rules, regulations, standards and amendments effectuating the Civil Service System established under the provisions of this Act. If the governing authority shall fail to adopt such rules, regulations and standards within 45 days, they shall become of full force and effect unless the governing authority shall conduct public hearing thereon in which event the governing authority may change, modify, or disapprove such rules, regulations, or standards. Such rules and regulations shall include provisions for the establishment and maintenance of job classification and compensation plans, the conduct of examinations for appointment under the Civil Service System, the certification of eligible persons, appointment, promotions, transfers, demotions, separations, tenure, service ratings, reinstatements, appeals and such additional regulations as may be deemed to be in the best interest of impartial selection of efficient personnel and improvement of public administration. Such rules and regulations shall prohibit political activity by any employee covered by the Civil Service System or the Administrative Hearing Officer. Said rules and regulations when adopted by the governing authority of Hall County or otherwise becoming effective, shall have the force of law and be binding upon all departments and offices of the County as may be covered under the Hall County Civil Service System Act.
Section VI. SUSPENSION WITHOUT PAY, DEMOTION, DISMISSAL AND APPEAL.
A.
No employee of any department or office of the County who is covered under the Hall County Civil Service System Act may be suspended without pay, demoted, or dismissed from employment in said department or office except for good cause and in accordance with the Hall County Government Employee Handbook and Policy Guidelines as approved by the governing authority of Hall County. Any employee who is suspended without pay, demoted, or dismissed shall have the right of appeal pursuant to the terms of the rules and regulations prescribed for appeal. Such appeal shall be heard and determined by the Administrative Hearing Officer within forty-five (45) days of the date that said appeal was filed with the Hall County Department of Human Resources; provided, however, that such employee must file his/her appeal with the Hall County Department of Human Resources in writing within ten (10) days from the date of his/her suspension without pay, demotion or dismissal. The decision of the Administrative Hearing Officer shall be binding upon the governing authority of Hall County, the Hall County Sheriff, the Hall County Probate Judge, the Hall County Clerk of Superior Court, and the Hall County Tax Commissioner as to whether such suspension without pay, demotion, or dismissal was for proper cause.
B.
All appeals under this Section VI shall be heard by the Administrative Hearing Officer. The hearing officer shall conduct the hearing, make evidentiary rulings and prepare final orders of the decision.
Section VII. EXPENSES OF ADMINISTRATIVE HEARING OFFICER.
All costs for expenses, supplies for the establishment an operation of the Civil Service System and the Administrative Hearing Officer shall be borne by the County and paid out of County funds as a cost of administration.
Section VIII. EFFECTIVE DATE.
The provisions of this Act shall become effective July 1, 2015.
(Res. of 8-8-77, § 1; Code 1991, § 2.48.010; Res. of 6-25-15(1), § 1(Exh. A))
