Chapter 10 - MUNICIPAL COURT[1]

Footnotes:
--- (1) ---
Cross reference— Nuisances, Ch. 11; offenses, Ch. 12; traffic, Ch. 20.
State Law reference— Establishment and jurisdiction of municipal courts, Ga. Const. art. 6, sec. 1, par. 1; municipal courts, O.C.G.A. § 36-32-1 et seq.

Sec. 10-1. - Office of municipal court judge.
The offices of municipal court judge and associate municipal court judge of the city are hereby created. The municipal court judge and associate municipal judge shall be elected by the city council. The municipal court shall hear and decide all cases of prosecution for violating the penal laws and ordinances of the city.
Sec. 10-2. - Associate municipal court judge to preside in absence of municipal court judge.
In case of the absence or disqualification of the municipal court judge, the associate municipal court judge shall perform the duties of the municipal court judge.
Sec. 10-3. - Duties of municipal court judge.
In addition to hearing all prosecutions for violations of this Code and the laws and ordinances of the city, the municipal court judge shall:
(1)
Compel the attendance of witnesses and the production of necessary papers;
(2)
Issue all processes and writs necessary to the exercise of his jurisdiction;
(3)
Punish contempt by fines not to exceed ten dollars ($10.00) or imprisonment not to exceed (10) days or both;
(4)
Appoint such special officers as may be necessary, in the absence of the marshal, to execute its writs and processes;
(5)
Prescribe rules or practices in cases where there are no rules applicable;
(6)
Bind over or commit to jail offenders against any criminal law of this state, whenever in the course of investigation before such court a proper case therefor shall be made by the evidence.
Sec. 10-4. - Superior court rules.
The practice in the municipal court shall be governed by the rules of the superior court as far as practicable.
Sec. 10-5. - Clerk.
A clerk of the municipal court shall be appointed by the city council and shall be responsible for the collection of all fines and forfeitures under order of the municipal court.
Sec. 10-6. - Records.
(a)
The clerk of the municipal court shall keep a criminal docket whereon he shall docket all cases of persons charged with violation of the city ordinances or state statutes, the time of docketing the same, the offense charged, the name of the arresting officer, the final judgment and sentence and other entries to show the progress of the case and its final disposition.
(b)
The clerk of the municipal court shall also keep the other books and records of the municipal court.
(c)
The clerk shall be responsible for maintenance of preadjudication documents, maintenance of the court docket, preparation of the court calendar, administering the court while in session at the direction of the municipal court judge, maintenance of all financial records of the municipal court including preparation of bank deposits, reporting dispositions of adjudicated cases to the appropriate agency, forwarding of adjudicated arrests and booking reports to the chief of police, transmitting adjudicated traffic citations and driver's licenses to the department of public safety and forwarding a copy of traffic citations to the chief of police for filing.
Sec. 10-7. - Limitations.
A prosecution for a violation of a city ordinance shall be commenced within two (2) years after the violation, and any offense against the ordinance for which no prosecution is begun within two (2) years after its commission shall be barred, unless the accused shall have been beyond the limits of the city, in which case the time of absence from the city shall not be embraced or computed as within the two (2) years.
Sec. 10-8. - Continuance—On behalf of the defendant.
Continuances, except at the instance of the city, shall be granted under the sound discretion of the municipal court.
Sec. 10-9. - Same—On behalf of city.
The city shall have a right to a continuance only one (1) time in a case, and then only for a good cause. If the accused is in custody, a continuance shall not be for a longer time than three (3) days, except by agreement of the defendant. If the defendant is not in custody, a continuance may be for such time as the court may determine.
Sec. 10-10. - Defendant's rights generally.
Any person charged with an offense against any ordinance of city shall be informed by summons in writing served on him of the nature of the cause of his accusation and the time and place at which he shall appear, if requested shall have compulsory process for obtaining witnesses on his behalf, shall have a speedy trial before the municipal court judge, shall be confronted with the witnesses against him and have the privilege of cross examination, and shall have the privilege of defending himself, by counsel or by himself or both, as to him shall seem proper. No person shall be condemned, fined or punished without full opportunity of being heard in his own defense and without having the opportunity of employing counsel, and no person shall be incarcerated in the city jail for more than seventy-two (72) hours without being tried in municipal court, except where the accused elects to waive trial at the first session in writing.
Sec. 10-11. - Failure to appear.
Any person duly summoned or issued a citation to appear before the municipal court who fails, neglects or refuses to appear, without sufficient excuse, may be fined for contempt by the municipal court, and the accused, if to be found in the city, shall be arrested by the police and brought before the municipal court for trial at such time as the municipal court judge may designate.
Sec. 10-12. - Arrest—Generally.
The arresting officer, instead of summoning any person charged with violating any city ordinance, may, in his discretion, arrest the accused, releasing him upon his giving bond as provided in this chapter. The person arrested shall be notified of the charge against him and the time and place of his appearance and shall be entitled upon demand to a written statement of the charges against him and have compulsory process to obtain his witnesses.
Sec. 10-13. - Same—Warrants.
Except as otherwise provided by law, warrants for offenders against the ordinances of the city and the affidavits to obtain the same may be issued by the municipal court judge and shall be directed to the police of the city, or to the sheriff of the county or his deputies. The affidavit and warrant shall be substantially in the form of affidavits and warrants of offenders against the laws of the state, substituting for "Troup County" the words "City of West Point." The officer will execute the warrant placed in his hands, and the arresting officer shall exercise reasonable diligence in bringing the person arrested before the municipal court.
Sec. 10-14. - Proceeding against corporation.
Whenever complaint is made, under oath, that a corporation has violated any ordinance of this city, it shall be the duty of the officer to whom the complaint was made, having authority to issue warrants for violation of city ordinances, to issue a summons directed to the corporation, requiring it to appear by agent or attorney at the municipal court, at a time therein named, to answer the charge. Service in such cases may be made by delivering a copy of the affidavit of complaint and of the summons to any agent or employee of the defendant, at least three (3) days before the time set for the hearing. Any police officer being competent to make such service, the entry of the arresting officer of the city or affidavit of any other person shall be evidence of such service. The trial may proceed ex parte, if the defendant fails to appear. If judgment is against the defendant, it shall be for a fine and costs, the same to be collected by execution.
Sec. 10-15. - Admitting to bail—Initially.
Any person arrested by a city officer may give the arresting officer a bond with good security, resident of this city, approved by the chief of police or municipal court judge.
Sec. 10-16. - Same—Rearrest.
When from any cause the municipal court judge deems it necessary to take the defendant into custody in order to secure the attendance of a defendant out on bond at the trial, he shall issue his warrant for the rearrest of the defendant, except as otherwise provided by law, and shall commit the defendant to jail or require new bond, as the necessities of the case may demand.
Sec. 10-17. - Appearance bond forfeiture.
(a)
Generally. Upon failure of any party or witness or other person who is under bond to appear, such bond shall be forfeited, unless legal excuse is offered in his behalf. The duties in such case that would apply in the superior court to the district attorney, clerk and sheriff shall be performed by the city attorney, clerk of the municipal court and chief of police respectively.
(b)
Special bail, rule to show cause. All bonds taken under this chapter and bonds given for appearance to abide the sentence of the court shall be special bail, and the power of the surety over the principal in any such bond shall be the same as in any special bail. Upon the failure to appear of any principal in any such bond or recognizance, the municipal court judge shall pass a rule requiring the principal and sureties on such bond to show cause on any day therein named, not to be less than ten (10) days from the passage of such rule, why they should not be required to pay the amount of such bond. This subsection does not apply to cash bonds.
(c)
Service to rule. A copy of such rule shall be served upon the principal and surety, if to be found in the city, by any officer or member of the police force at least five (5) days before the time therein set for hearing.
(d)
Judgment on failure to show cause. If no sufficient cause is shown, the municipal court judge shall proceed to enter judgment against such principal and surety for the amount of the bond. Execution shall be issued for the amount of such judgment and placed in the hands of the chief of police, who shall proceed to collect the same by levy and sale as in the case of tax executions; provided, however, judgment shall not be entered against either principal or surety until service shall have been perfected on either the principal or the surety.
(e)
Issuance and service of scire facias. The clerk of the municipal court shall issue a scire facias on all forfeited bonds and recognizances, whether the same were for appearance before the municipal court or the city council, returnable to regular session of the municipal court against the principal and his sureties, which shall be served by any police officer at least ten (10) days before the return date, or, if the party resides out of the city, scire facias may be served by the publication of the same one (1) time in a public newspaper in the city at least ten (10) days before the return date. The official return of the police officer as to the service of the scire facias shall be sufficient evidence of such service.
(f)
Entry of judgment. If at the regular session of the municipal court to which the scire facias is returnable no sufficient cause is shown to the contrary, judgment on motion shall be entered against such principal and sureties or such of them as have been served.
(g)
Collection of judgment. Such judgments so rendered shall be a lien on the property of the defendant from the date of rendition and shall be enforced by execution to be issued by the city clerk, which may be levied and sales made thereunder as other executions.
(h)
Surrender of principal. The bondsmen may surrender their principal at any time prior to the rendition of judgment on the scire facias issued by the clerk. Such surrender shall release the bondsmen except as to the cost accruing up to the time of such surrender.
(i)
Not to abate proceedings. Forfeiture of bond shall not abate the proceedings against the defendant, and he may be rearrested and proceeded against for the offense committed.
Sec. 10-18. - Costs.
The costs taxed against the defendant and his sureties shall be in the same sums as the costs allowed officers of the magistrate court in criminal cases, which shall be paid into the city treasury.
Sec. 10-19. - Nonpayment of fines and costs—Confinement.
The officer in attendance on the municipal court shall take all persons who have been convicted by the court into his custody. In case such offender is financially able to do so and shall fail to pay the fine and costs immediately upon conviction, such officer shall confine such offender in the city jail until all fines and costs are paid, or shall execute the sentence of the court, whatever it may be.
Sec. 10-20. - Same—Execution.
(a)
On failure of any person on whom a fine is imposed to pay the same immediately, where he is financially able to do so, execution may issue to collect the same, although such person is imprisoned in default of paying such fine.
(b)
The execution may issue instanter, to be levied upon the goods, chattels, lands and tenements of the person fined, which execution shall bear teste in the name of the mayor, be signed officially by the clerk and be directed to the chief of police.
Sec. 10-21. - Prosecuting attorney.
The city council may appoint a prosecuting attorney of the municipal court who shall have the duties and authorities as outlined in Georgia law to represent the city in municipal court. Such individual shall be a member in good standing of the State Bar of Georgia and admitted to practice before the appellate courts of this state. The prosecuting attorney shall serve on a part-time basis, and will be otherwise allowed to engage in the private practice of law. The part-time prosecuting attorney shall serve at the pleasure of the city council, and the city council shall also be authorized to appoint such substitute prosecuting attorneys as may be in the best interests of the city. Nothing herein shall prohibit the city attorney from prosecuting ordinance violations in municipal court or otherwise representing the interests of the city in municipal court or appeals therefrom.
(Ord. No. 12-07, § 1, 12-10-12)
