ARTICLE IV. - GOING OUT OF BUSINESS SALES[5]

Footnotes:
--- (5) ---
State Law reference— Uniform Deceptive Trade Practices Act, O.C.G.A. § 10-1-370 et seq.; Fair Business Practices Act, O.C.G.A. § 10-1-390.

Sec. 6-81. - Definitions.
For the purposes of this article, the following terms, phrases, words, and their derivations shall have the meaning given herein:
Fire and other altered goods sale means a sale held out in such a manner as to reasonably cause the public to believe that the sale will offer goods damaged or altered by fire, smoke, water or other means.
Going out of business sale means a sale held in such a manner as to reasonably cause the public to believe that upon the disposal of the stock of goods on hand the business will cease and be discontinued, including but not limited to the following sales: adjuster's; adjustment; alteration; assignee's; bankrupt; benefit of administrator's; benefit of creditor's; benefit of trustee's; building coming down; closing; creditor's committee; creditor's; end; executor's final days; forced out; forced out of business; insolvents'; last days; lease expires; liquidation; loss of lease; mortgage sale; receiver's; trustee's; quitting business.
Removal of business sale means a sale held out in such a manner as to reasonably cause the public to believe that the person conducting the sale will cease and discontinue business at the place of sale upon disposal of the stock of goods on hand and will then move to and resume business at a new location in the city or will then continue business from other existing locations in the city.
(Code 1967, § 15-35)
Sec. 6-82. - Application requirements.
Any person or firm holding a retail license issued by the city under the general tax ordinance of the city for a period of at least six (6) months who desires to advertise and conduct any one of the types of sales defined in section 6-81 above may surrender his current license to the clerk-treasurer and conduct such sale or sales at the place of business for which his current license is issued, and the following conditions and requirements shall apply to the conduct of any such sale or sales:
(1)
The right to conduct such sale or sales shall apply only to persons holding a current license under the general tax ordinance of the city for a period of at least six (6) months and the permit granted hereunder shall expire at the expiration of such current existing license.
(2)
Such sale or sales may be extended and conducted only for a period of sixty (60) days following the surrender of the current license to the clerk-treasurer, but, upon application made to the clerk-treasurer, the length of time for the advertisement and conduct of such sale or sales may be extended.
(3)
Such sale or sales may be extended and conducted only at the place of business licensed under the existing general tax ordinance, except that, with the prior express consent of the mayor and aldermen, such sale or sales may be conducted at any location in the city.
(4)
The right to advertise and conduct such sale or sales shall be personal and not transferable to any other person or firm except that upon the death of a person doing business under a license issued under the general tax ordinance, his heirs, administrators or executors shall have the right to conduct any sale or sales provided for in this article.
(5)
After the completion of such sale, the current license shall be cancelled by the city marshal except that the holder of any license conducting a "fire or other altered goods sale" shall have his license returned to him by the city marshal and the same shall be valid during the year for which it was originally issued.
(6)
No license fee shall be required for the issuance of the permit authorized hereunder but any person conducting such a sale or sales shall not be relieved from any payment of any gross receipts license requirements on the merchandise disposed of through such sale or sales.
(7)
Any person making application for permission to conduct such sale shall furnish, as a part of such application, a complete and detailed inventory of the goods, wares and merchandise to be offered for sale as disclosed by applicant's records. Such inventory shall be attached to and become a part of the application and shall include all merchandise on back order, to be delivered at a later date. All merchandise on back order, to be delivered at a later date, must have been ordered more than ninety (90) days prior to the filing of the application.
(8)
Any person who has advertised and conducted such a sale as regulated hereunder shall not be granted a license to conduct a similar type of business at the same location for a period of one (1) year from the date of a sale conducted hereunder.
(Code 1967, § 15-36; Ord. of 5-26-92)
Sec. 6-83. - Persons exempted.
The provisions of this article shall not apply to or affect the following persons:
(1)
Persons acting pursuant to an order or process of a court of competent jurisdiction.
(2)
Persons acting in accordance with their powers and duties as public officials.
(3)
Duly licensed auctioneers, selling at auction.
(4)
Any publisher of a newspaper, magazine or other publication, who publishes in good faith any advertisement, without knowledge of its false, deceptive or misleading character, or without knowledge that the provisions of this article have not been complied with.
(Code 1967, § 15-37)
Secs. 6-84—6-100. - Reserved.
