ARTICLE VI. - JUNK DEALERS[7]

Footnotes:
--- (7) ---
State Law reference— Junk or metal dealers' records, O.C.G.A. § 10-1-350 et seq.; purchase and resale of used motor vehicles and used parts, O.C.G.A. § 40-4-40 et seq.; junk dealers, O.C.G.A. § 43-22-1; Used Motor Vehicle Dismantlers, Rebuilders and Salvage Dealers Registration Act, O.C.G.A. § 43-48-1 et seq.

Sec. 6-136. - Rules and regulations governing keeping of premises.
(a)
All persons operating a junkyard or automobile wrecking business shall keep the premises in a neat and orderly condition. All such premises shall be enclosed by a tight board fence at least six (6) feet high which shall be kept in a neatly painted or stained condition. No junk or auto parts shall be allowed to remain outside such fences.
(b)
All rags, waste cotton, and all like materials shall be baled or bagged and stored in an orderly manner and in a weatherproof warehouse.
(c)
Green bones or bones with flesh or hide attached must be stored in ratproof bins of metal or concrete construction to be approved by the county health department. The maximum amount of dry bones stored shall be limited to one (1) carload.
(d)
Automobiles that are to be kept as a whole for sale, or the sale of parts thereof, shall be locked up off the ground at least ten (10) inches and kept clean underneath at all times.
(e)
Automobiles that are not kept for resale or sale of parts shall be scrapped immediately and stored in an orderly manner. All unsalable material shall be destroyed immediately and other like material such as cushions, linings, etc., shall be kept in a warehouse or on racks or benches at least sixteen (16) inches from the floor and in an orderly manner.
(f)
All automobiles, tires, fenders, headlights, and other cup-shaped parts shall be kept under sheds on racks or benches at least sixteen (16) inches from the floor or ground, or any automobile in such manner as not to catch or accumulate water or provide a rat harborage.
(g)
No water, leaks from hydrants, pipes or other source shall be allowed to go unattended; and all water holes and pools on the yard shall be drained immediately.
(Code 1967, § 15-66)
Sec. 6-137. - Abatement as nuisance.
(a)
Any premises not kept under the conditions as prescribed by this article is hereby declared to be a nuisance and shall be abated as set out in chapter 11.
(b)
The owner or operator of such premises shall be punished as provided in section 1-14.
(Code 1967, § 15-67)
Secs. 6-138—6-160. - Reserved.
