ARTICLE XI. - TRAILER PARKS[12]

Footnotes:
--- (12) ---
State Law reference— Tourist courts, O.C.G.A. § 31-28-1 et seq.; limitation of owner's liability for persons entering for recreational purposes, O.C.G.A. § 51-3-20 et seq.

Sec. 6-286. - Definition.
For the purposes of this article, a "trailer park" is any area wherein house trailers, camping trailers, travel trailers or any other type of mobile home is provided a space to park, whether it be permanent or temporary.
(Code 1967, § 24-1)
Sec. 6-287. - Trailers prohibited except in licensed park.
No trailer shall be parked within the city limits except in a licensed trailer park.
(Code 1967, § 24-2)
Sec. 6-288. - License.
(a)
Every person owning or operating a trailer park in the city shall, before starting such operation, obtain a license from the city clerk-treasurer and shall make application for such license on such forms as may be prescribed by the city council.
(b)
Failure to comply with any of the requirements of this chapter shall work an automatic revocation of the above described license.
(Code 1967, § 24-3)
Sec. 6-289. - Inspection.
Each and every trailer park operated within the city shall be subject to inspection by the city health officer, the county health officer, or their designated representatives, at any and all reasonable hours.
(Code 1967, § 24-4)
Sec. 6-290. - Supervision.
Every trailer park shall have at least one (1) competent attendant or caretaker whose duty it shall be to maintain the park, its facilities and equipment in a clean, orderly and sanitary condition. He shall also require each and every person who occupies park space to register as provided by O.C.G.A. § 43-21-56 governing the registering of guests in hotels, inns and similar places of permanent or temporary residence.
(Code 1967, § 24-5)
State Law reference— Registration of guests; maintaining of register, O.C.G.A. § 43-21-56.
Sec. 6-291. - Location and space.
(a)
Trailer parks shall not be allowed in any area zoned for use as residential property only. Trailer parks may be operated in areas zoned for commercial or industrial use (C-1 and C-2).
(b)
All trailer parks shall be located and placed so that the drainage from the trailer park area will not endanger any water supply. Any area used as a trailer park shall be well drained and cleared so as to prevent any accumulation of water, high grass or underbrush that might become a breeding place for mosquitoes or a harborage for rats.
(c)
In each trailer park containing more than one (1) trailer, the minimum distance between each trailer shall be twenty (20) feet. The trailer spaces and trailers shall be so arranged to provide adequate ventilation and access for fire protection.
(d)
Each trailer park must provide an adequate entrance with unobstructed access to a public street.
(Code 1967, § 24-6)
Sec. 6-292. - Water supply.
(a)
Each trailer park shall be connected to the city water system. A single water meter shall be placed at the trailer park and the owner of such park shall be responsible for the payment of the bill for water used at the trailer park.
(b)
The use of water from open springs, wells, streams or lakes is prohibited.
(Code 1967, § 24-7)
Sec. 6-293. - Sanitation facilities.
(a)
Each trailer park shall be equipped with toilet and bath facilities which shall be connected to the city sewerage system. All such facilities shall comply with the rules and regulations of the county board of health and shall also comply with local ordinances pertaining to plumbing and the disposal of sewage and water-carried wastes; provided, however, trailer parks which do not allow any trailer to occupy space therein except trailers equipped with self-contained bath and toilet facilities shall not be required to construct the toilet and bath facilities as set out in subsections (b) through (f) below, inclusive, if the self-contained bath and toilet facilities are connected to the city sewerage system.
(b)
Toilet facilities of a type approved by the county health officer shall be provided in conveniently located, well constructed buildings having good, natural and artificial lighting, adequate ventilation and floors of concrete or similar impervious material. Concrete curbings extending at least six (6) inches above the floor shall be provided and the floor sloped to adequate drains. The interior walls and ceilings of such buildings shall be of smooth material painted with a light colored paint. Vitreous china flush toilets shall be required and shall be connected to city sanitary sewers or approved septic tanks in areas where city sewerage is not available.
(c)
Separate toilet facilities marked by appropriate signs shall be provided for males and females. One (1) toilet shall be installed for each twenty (20) males or fraction thereof, and one (1) such toilet for each twenty (20) females or fraction thereof.
(d)
Toilet buildings shall be located so as to be within one hundred (100) feet of trailers they are designed to serve.
(e)
Separate showers, or other type bathing facilities approved by the health officer, with hot and cold water, shall be provided for both males and females and the buildings containing them shall comply with the requirements of subsection (b) above. One (1) shower head shall be provided for each thirty (30) males or fraction thereof, and one (1) shower head shall be provided for each thirty (30) females or fraction thereof.
(f)
All floors in shower and toilet rooms shall be disinfected daily by the use of chlorine compounds or other materials in strengths approved by the health officer or his duly authorized agent.
(Code 1967, § 24-8)
State Law reference— Sanitary regulations for hotels and inns, O.C.G.A. § 43-21-30 et seq.
Sec. 6-294. - Disposal of sewage, other water carried waste.
All sewage and other water carried wastes shall be disposed of into a municipal sewer system wherever possible. In parks in which city sewer connections are not available, disposal shall be into a private system which includes a sanitary means of disposal, the operation of which creates neither a nuisance nor a menace to health and which is approved by the county board of health.
(Code 1967, § 24-9)
Sec. 6-295. - Garbage disposal.
(a)
Each trailer park shall provide at least one (1) covered metal container, for garbage disposal, for each trailer located in the trailer park. The container shall be cleaned at least once each month and shall not be allowed to become foul smelling or breeding places for flies and vermin.
(b)
There shall be a designated area within the trailer park where the above described garbage containers shall be deposited for collection by the city sanitary department. The garbage containers for the individual trailers shall be placed at the central pickup point on the days when the city sanitary department shall service the trailer park for garbage collection.
(Code 1967, § 24-10)
Sec. 6-296. - Cleanliness of premises; fire protection.
(a)
All trailer parks shall be kept free of litter, rubbish and inflammable material at all times. Portable fire extinguishers shall be available and in good repair for use in fighting fires.
(b)
Fires shall be made only in stoves, incinerators or other equipment intended for that purpose.
(Code 1967, § 24-11)
Sec. 6-297. - Electrical outlets.
Each trailer park shall be connected to the city owned electrical distribution system and there shall be one (1) meter for the entire trailer park, and the owner of such park shall be responsible for the electric bill. Each individual trailer space within the park shall be provided with a 110-volt, 50-amp service connection. All electrical installations shall comply with all state and local electrical codes and ordinances.
(Code 1967,
Secs. 6-298—6-315. - Reserved.
