Chapter 14 - NUISANCES[1]
Footnotes:
--- (1) ---
Cross reference— Drug free zones around schools, parks, etc., § 11-145.
State Law reference— Municipal home rule, Ga. Const. art. IX, § II, O.C.G.A. § 36-35-3; nuisances, O.C.G.A. § 41-1-1 et seq.; municipal nuisance abatement, O.C.G.A. § 41-2-5.

ARTICLE I. - IN GENERAL

Secs. 14-1—14-20. - Reserved.
ARTICLE II. - ABANDONED VEHICLES[2]

Footnotes:
--- (2) ---
Cross reference— Motor vehicles and traffic, Ch. 12.

Sec. 14-21. - Definitions.
The following words, terms and phrases, when used in this article, shall have the meanings ascribed to them in this section, except where the context clearly indicates a different meaning:
Property means any real property within the city not a street or highway.
Street or highway means the entire width between the boundary lines of every way publicly maintained, when any part thereof is open to the use of the public for purposes of vehicular travel.
Vehicle means a machine propelled by power other than human power that is designed to travel along the ground by use of wheels, treads, runners, or slides, and to transport persons or property, or pull machinery. The term shall include, without limitation, automobiles, trucks, trailers, motorcycles, tractors, buggies and wagons.
(Code 1976, § 9-1018)
Cross reference— Definitions and rules of construction generally, § 1-2.
Sec. 14-22. - General prohibition.
No person shall abandon any vehicle within the city and no person shall leave any vehicle at any place within the city for such time and under such circumstances as to cause such vehicle reasonably to appear to have been abandoned.
(Code 1976, § 9-1019)
Sec. 14-23. - Leaving wrecked, etc., vehicle on street.
No person shall leave any partially dismantled, nonoperating, wrecked or junked vehicle on any street within the city.
(Code 1976, § 9-1020)
Sec. 14-24. - Wrecked, etc., vehicles on property.
(a)
No person in charge or control of any property within the city, whether as owner, tenant, occupant, lessee or otherwise, shall allow any partially dismantled, nonoperating, wrecked, junked or discarded vehicle to remain on such property longer than seven (7) days.
(b)
No person shall leave any such vehicle on any property within the city for a longer time than seven (7) days.
(c)
Subsections (a) and (b) shall not apply with regard to a vehicle in an enclosed building, a vehicle on the premises of a business enterprise operated in a lawful place and manner when necessary to the operation of such business enterprise, or a vehicle in an appropriate storage place or depository maintained in a lawful place and manner by the city.
(Code 1976, § 9-1021)
Sec. 14-25. - Impoundment.
The city manager or any employee designated by him is hereby authorized to have removed any vehicle left at any place within the city which reasonably appears to be in violation of this article or lost, stolen or unclaimed. Such vehicles shall be impounded until lawfully claimed upon payment of a service charge in the amount established by ordinance or until otherwise disposed of.
(Code 1976, § 9-1022)
Sec. 14-26. - Violation.
Upon citation being issued on an abandoned vehicle, said hearing shall be held within thirty (30) days from the issuance of the citation and if the City of Cartersville Municipal Court declares said vehicle to be in violation of this section, a fine of up to one thousand dollars ($1,000.00) per day per violation shall be assessed, until such vehicle is no longer in violation of this section.
(Ord. No. 15-99, 3-4-99)
Secs. 14-27—14-40. - Reserved.
ARTICLE III. - GRAFFITI

Sec. 14-41. - Purpose and intent.
The mayor and city council of the City of Cartersville, Georgia finds and determines that graffiti is a public nuisance and destructive of the rights and values of property owners as well as the entire community. Graffiti promotes blight in the neighborhoods in which it occurs and encourages similar acts of vandalism. Without prompt and immediate removal of graffiti, other properties become the target of graffiti and entire neighborhoods are affected and become less desirable places in which to be, all to the detriment of the city and its citizens.
The mayor and city council of the City of Cartersville, Georgia, in the interest of public health, safety and welfare further finds and declares that to be truly effective in the deterrence, eradication and removal of graffiti, it is necessary to implement a comprehensive anti-graffiti ordinance.
(Ord. No. 26-00, § 1, 6-15-00)
Sec. 14-42. - Definition.
Graffiti means the defacing, damaging or destroying by spraying of paint, or marking of ink, chalk, dye or other similar substances on public and/or private buildings, structures and places.
(Ord. No. 26-00, § 2, 6-15-00)
Sec. 14-43. - Prohibited acts.
It shall be unlawful for any person(s) to deface, destroy or otherwise damage private or public property without the owner's consent by or through the application of what is commonly known as "graffiti."
It shall be unlawful for any person owning or otherwise being in control of any real property within the City of Cartersville to maintain, permit or allow any graffiti to be placed upon or remain upon any structure located on such property when the graffiti is visible from the street or other public or private property.
(Ord. No. 26-00, § 3, 6-15-00)
Sec. 14-44. - Graffiti penalty.
Any person who is convicted of violating section 14-43 of this article shall be punished by a fine of not exceeding one thousand dollars ($1,000.00) or by imprisonment not to exceed six (6) months, or both such fine and imprisonment. In addition to such punishment, the court may, in imposing sentence, order the defendant to restore the property so defaced, damaged or destroyed, and order community service for up to forty (40) hours.
(Ord. No. 26-00, § 4, 6-15-00)
Sec. 14-45. - Graffiti notice of removal.
It shall be unlawful for any person, firm, public agency or utility owner, or acting manager or agent for the owner of the property, whether privately or publicly owned, to permit the application of or fail to remove any graffiti from the property within thirty (30) days of receipt of notice from the city to remove such graffiti.
Whenever the city becomes aware of the existence of graffiti or other unsightly conditions on any property, including structures or improvements within the city, a police officer or code enforcement officer shall give or cause to be given, notice to the property owner, and/or owner's agent or manager to remove such graffiti or other unsightly condition therefrom. Such notice shall be in writing and have substantially the following form:
_____
NOTICE TO REMOVE GRAFFITI
OR OTHER UNSIGHTLY
CONDITION FROM PROPERTY
To the Owner, Agent of the Owner, or Person managing the property hereinafter described:
Your attention is hereby directed to the provisions of Section 3 of Ordinance Number 26-00 on file in the office of the City Clerk in the City Hall, Cartersville, Georgia.
Pursuant thereto, you are hereby notified that a certain unsightly condition exists on premises specifically described as ___________ which injures neighboring property and the public health, safety and welfare. You are therefore notified at once, and in any event within thirty (30) days from the date of this notice, to remove such unsightly condition from the property and thereafter to keep the property free therefrom.
In the event you fail to complete such work within the time hereinabove mentioned, the undersigned shall cause the same to be removed. The costs of removal may be assessed upon your property and such costs will constitute lien upon the land until paid.
Dated at Cartersville, Georgia this _____ day of ________, 20_____.
EXPAND
/s/
      Officer      
    _____
The notice required by this section may be served in any one (1) of the following manners:
•
By personal service on the owner, occupant or person in charge or control of the property.
•
By registered or certified mail addressed to the owner at the last known address of said owner. If this address is unknown, the notice will be sent to the property address.
(Ord. No. 26-00, § 5, 6-15-00)
Sec. 14-46. - City cost declared lien.
If the person, agent, firm, public agency, manager, or owner of the property fails to remove the graffiti by the end of the thirty-day notification period, the City of Cartersville shall cause the graffiti to be removed and charge to the property owner the expenses incurred. If the expenses of the removal remain unpaid for a period of sixty (60) days, the City of Cartersville may place a lien against the property upon which said nuisance existed and from which the graffiti was removed.
(Ord. No. 26-00, § 6, 6-15-00)
