ARTICLE X. - HORSE-DRAWN CARRIAGES FOR HIRE

Sec. 8-356. - Short title and definitions.
(a)
Short title. This article shall be known and recited as "The Horse-Drawn Carriages for Hire Ordinance."
(b)
Definitions. The following words, terms and phrases, when used in this article, shall have the meanings ascribed to them in this subsection, except where the context clearly indicates a different meaning:
Company means the holder of a license to operate a horse-drawn carriage business under the provisions of this article, whether a person, firm, partnership or corporation.
Driver means any person who drives or operates a horse-drawn carriage on the streets of the city for a licensed company.
Driver's permit means the written authority granted by the city for an individual to drive or operate a horse-drawn carriage within the city.
Horse-drawn carriage means any hack or carriage which is operated by being drawn by a horse, mule or other beast of burden, for the transportation for hire of passengers.
Inspector (City Manager or his designee) means the individual employee or organizational unit of the city charged with the responsibility for enforcing this article, except for specific responsibilities otherwise provided herein.
License means the right and privilege granted by the city for the operation of a business incorporating the use of one or more horse-drawn carriages within the corporate limits of the city.
Stand means a public place alongside the curb of a street or elsewhere which has been designated by the City Manager as reserved exclusively for the use of horse-drawn carriages.
Street means and includes any street, alley, lane, avenue, court or public place in the city.
(Code 1998, § 14-521; Ord. No. 18-98, 11-2-1998)
Sec. 8-357. - Licensing of carriage companies; headquarters.
(a)
License required.
(1)
No person shall operate a business involving the use of one or more horse-drawn carriages on the streets of the city unless a license for such business has first been granted by the city in accordance with this article and the provisions contained herein. The license shall be effective only for the calendar year stated in the license, unless suspended or revoked sooner as provided by ordinance.
(2)
Application for the license shall be made on forms provided by the General Government Director and shall provide such information as is required for other business license applications, and such additional information as may be necessary to define completely the business operation.
(3)
Each license application must include a complete description of each animal to be used to pull a horse-drawn carriage. Additionally, a color photograph no less than three inches by five inches must be provided for each horse correspondingly. The aforementioned items must be presented to the Inspector prior to the use of any horse.
(4)
Each applicant must produce, if demanded by the Business License Manager or Inspector, a valid equine infectious anemia (EIA) certification.
(b)
Operating regulations. In addition to the license requirements imposed herein, no license shall be permitted any carriage operator, unless the operator complies with the following operating regulations:
(1)
A licensed veterinarian shall certify, after due and proper inspection, the good health of each draft animal before it is placed into service. A minimum of two such health inspections shall be required for each animal each calendar year.
(2)
No single animal shall pull a carriage holding more than ten people, including the driver.
(3)
Unless written approval is given by a licensed veterinarian, no animal having open sores or wounds or any disease or ailment shall be permitted to be in service on the streets of the city.
(4)
Each draft animal shall have its hooves properly trimmed and shod for street surfaces.
(5)
Each animal shall be groomed daily and not have fungus, dandruff, or a dirty coat.
(6)
Harnesses shall be properly fitted, maintained, and oiled so that no irritating material will come in direct contact with the animal.
(7)
No driver may use more than a light touch of the whip upon any animal, and no driver or other persons may forcefully strike an animal, and make movements or noise intended to frighten or harm an animal.
(8)
No driver shall permit an animal to pull a carriage at a speed faster than a slow trot, except in extreme emergency situations.
(9)
No animal shall be subject to any condition or treatment, whether in service or out of service, which will impair the good health and physical condition of that animal.
(10)
Adequate water shall be provided.
(11)
Ventilation adequate to ensure the health and comfort of animals shall be provided.
(12)
Food shall be free of contamination.
(13)
All laws as cited as the Humane Care for Equines Act (O.C.G.A. § 4-13-1 et seq.), as well as all other state and federal laws governing equines.
(14)
No one animal may be worked more than eight hours per day. The driver must keep a log of the starting and ending times for each animal. Said log should be kept in a bound book form and stored on the carriage being pulled.
(15)
No driver shall work an animal pulling a horse-drawn carriage when the outside temperature exceeds 95 degrees Fahrenheit. The temperature reading may be obtained at the communications desk of the Police Department.
(c)
Inspections. The Inspector shall be empowered to inspect all operating practices of any carriage company to ensure continuous compliance with this article.
(d)
Refusal or failure to comply with article provisions. Any applicant who refuses or fails to comply with the requirements of this article shall not be issued a business license until proof of compliance is presented by the applicant and certified by the Inspector. The foregoing licensing requirements shall be ongoing as requirements for continuous operation.
(e)
Temporary suspension after inspection. The General Government Director may, upon recommendation of the Inspector, temporarily suspend any carriage company license for violation of the provisions of this article, subject to license revocation action.
(Code 1998, § 14-522; Ord. No. 18-98, 11-2-1998)
Sec. 8-358. - Insurance.
(a)
Indemnity for benefit of city. Any horse-drawn carriage company operating under this article shall hold the city, its officers, agents, servants and employees, harmless against any and all liability, loss, damages or expense which may accrue to the city by reason of negligence, default or misconduct of the company in connection with the rights granted to such company hereunder. Nothing in this article shall be considered to make the city, its officers, agents, servants or employees liable for damages because of any negligent act or omission or commission by any horse-drawn carriage company, its servants, agents, drivers, or other employees, during the operation by the company of a horse-drawn carriage business or service, either in respect to injury to persons or with respect to damage to property which may be sustained.
(b)
Insurance for benefit of passengers. Any horse-drawn carriage company desiring a license to do business shall give and maintain a policy of indemnity from an insurance company authorized to do business in the state for each vehicle in use as a horse-drawn carriage. The minimum coverage shall be $100,000.00 for bodily injury to any one person, $300,000.00 for injury to more than one person which are sustained in the same accident, and $25,000.00 for property damage resulting from one accident. The indemnity insurance shall inure to the benefit of any person who shall be injured or who shall sustain damage to property caused by the negligence of a horse-drawn carriage company, its servants or agents.
(c)
Blanket policy. Any company or person operating a horse-drawn carriage in the city shall give a separate policy of indemnity insurance for each separate horse-drawn carriage for hire, except where such company or person actually owns or holds legal title to more than one horse-drawn carriage, in which event such company or person may give one policy of indemnity insurance covering all the horse-drawn carriages actually owned. This latter provision, however, shall not apply to any group of persons separately owning horse-drawn carriages who may be jointly operating or doing business under a license horse-drawn carriage name.
(d)
Notice when voided. Before any policy of insurance required by this article is voided for any cause, nonpayment of premium or otherwise, notice thereof shall be given, by the licensee in writing, to the Mayor and Council at least five days before the same shall take effect.
(Code 1998, § 14-523; Ord. No. 18-98, 11-2-1998)
Sec. 8-359. - Driver's permit.
(a)
Permit required. No person shall operate a horse-drawn carriage for hire upon the streets of the city, and no person who owns or operates a horse-drawn carriage company shall permit a horse-drawn carriage to be driven, and no horse-drawn carriage operating under a horse-drawn carriage company licensed by the city shall be driven at any time for hire, unless the driver of the horse-drawn carriage shall first have obtained and shall have then in force a horse-drawn carriage driver's permit issued under the provisions of this article.
(b)
Application. Any person desiring a permit required by this article shall submit an application in writing to the Business License Manager on a form to be furnished by the General Government Director. The application shall be made under oath and shall state the age of the applicant, date of birth, his address, and whether he has been convicted of a violation of any of the laws of the state or of this Code or other ordinances of the city, and if so, when and of what offense, and the sentence of the court.
(c)
Physician's certificate required. Each application for a driver's permit shall be accompanied by a certificate from a licensed state physician certifying that, in his opinion, the applicant is not afflicted with any disease or infirmity which might make him an unsafe or unsatisfactory driver. In the case of renewal of a driver's permit, the certificate shall be updated every two years.
(d)
Qualifications of applicant. An applicant for a driver's permit under this article must not be less than 18 years of age, with no physical infirmities which might make the applicant an unsafe or unsatisfactory horse-drawn carriage driver. No permit shall be issued to any person who has been convicted of operating a motor vehicle while under the influence of intoxicating beverages or drugs within one year prior to the date of the application for such permit, or who has been convicted of the offenses three or more times within five years prior to the date of the application for the permit. For the purpose of this section, a nolo contendere shall be considered a conviction.
(e)
Driver's permit fee. Before any permit is granted under this article, a driver's permit fee of $25.00 shall be paid by the applicant.
(f)
Current state driver's license required. Any person applying for a horse-drawn carriage driver's permit under this article must show that he has a current motor vehicle operator's license issued or approved by the state, and that the license is not under suspension or revocation.
(g)
Examination of applicant; issuance or denial of permit. It shall be the duty of the Inspector to examine the applicant, his references, police and traffic record, and other vouchers and thereafter recommend, to the General Government Director, to grant or refuse the permit. In the event of a refusal by the General Government Director to grant a permit, the applicant shall have the right to enter an appeal to the Mayor and Council. Such appeal shall be filed in writing to the Mayor and Council within ten calendar days from the date of the refusal to grant the permit. The Mayor and Council must convene an appeals hearing within 20 calendar days from receipt of the filing by the City Clerk of the written appeal. Within five calendar days from the appeals hearing, the Mayor shall render a written decision as to the Mayor and Council's decision on the appeal.
(h)
Permit to be displayed in horse-drawn carriage. The permit issued under the provisions of this article shall be placed on display in the horse-drawn carriage to be operated by the holder of the permit, where the permit will be in clear view of the passengers at all times when the horse-drawn carriage is for hire.
(i)
Alteration of permits prohibited. It shall be unlawful for any person willfully to alter, deface, obliterate or destroy a horse-drawn carriage driver's permit, or cause or allow the same.
(j)
Permit not transferable. Any horse-drawn carriage driver's permit issued under this article is not transferable, and is to be used solely by the person to whom it is issued.
(k)
Duration of permit. Any horse-drawn carriage driver's permit shall be valid for that calendar year. Permits may be renewed, upon application and payment of the required fee, unless the permit for the preceding period has been revoked or is under suspension.
(l)
Suspension of the driver's permit. The Inspector shall recommend to the Mayor and Council to suspend a driver's permit for the following reasons:
(1)
Making any false statement in the application for the permit; or
(2)
Operating a horse-drawn carriage in violation of any provision of this article or of state law.
The suspension by the General Government Director shall be lifted upon dismissal or dropping of the charges described, upon satisfactory correction of any false statement in the application, upon correction of the violation of any provision of this article, upon ruling in favor of the driver in any appeal hearing before the Mayor and Council, or at the expiration of 60 days from the date of suspension. From the decision to suspend a permit, the holder of such permit shall have the right to appeal the decision of the General Government Director to the Mayor and Council. All suspension appeals must be filed in writing with the Mayor and Council within ten calendar days from the date of the suspension, and the Mayor and Council must convene an appeals hearing within 20 calendar days from receipt of the filing by the City Clerk of the written appeal. Within five calendar days from the appeals hearing, the Mayor shall render a written decision as to the Mayor and Council's decision on the appeal.
(m)
Revocation of driver's permit. In the event that any driver holding a permit under this article at any time ceases to meet the qualifications described in subsection (d) of this section or fails to correct satisfactorily any false statement made in the application for the permit, or fails to operate his horse-drawn carriage in accordance with the provisions of this article, the General Government Director shall be empowered to revoke permanently the permit or to restore the same. The holder of such permit shall have the right to appeal the decision of the General Government Director to the Mayor and Council in the manner prescribed in this section.
(n)
Driving after suspension or revocation. It shall be unlawful for any person to operate a horse-drawn carriage for hire for the carriage of passengers during any period in which his permit to do so is suspended or revoked in accordance with the provisions of this article.
(o)
Appeals. Any appeal of a decision made by the General Government Director to revoke a horse-drawn carriage driver's permit, pursuant to subsection (m) of this section, shall be made in writing to the Mayor and Council within ten days of the ruling. The Mayor and Council must convene an appeals hearing within 20 calendar days from the filing by the City Clerk of the written appeal. The appellant shall have the right to present evidence, examine the evidence of the appellee, and to cross examine. The appellant shall have the right to be represented by counsel. Within five calendar days from the appeals hearing, the Mayor shall render a written decision as to the Mayor and Council's decision on the appeal.
(Code 1998, § 14-524; Ord. No. 18-98, 11-2-1998)
Sec. 8-360. - Identification and marking.
Every horse-drawn carriage shall have a sign plainly painted on the rear of each vehicle. The sign shall contain the full name of the horse-drawn carriage company operating the vehicle. Additionally, the sign shall conform with all sign standards for the city and be approved by the city.
(Code 1998, § 14-525; Ord. No. 18-98, 11-2-1998)
Sec. 8-361. - Numbers.
There shall be painted on each side and on the rear of each horse-drawn carriage a number at least six inches high, the number to be a separate and distinct number from that on any other public vehicle in the city. The number shall be assigned to such horse-drawn carriage and the owner thereof by the General Government Director and shall not be altered or changed without consent of the Mayor and Council. Said numbers shall be of Roman bold design.
(Code 1998, § 14-526; Ord. No. 18-98, 11-2-1998)
Sec. 8-362. - Safe mechanical condition required.
Every horse-drawn carriage operated on the streets of the city shall be maintained in a safe mechanical condition, with all safety equipment remaining intact and operative at all times when the horse-drawn carriage is in service.
(Code 1998, § 14-527; Ord. No. 18-98, 11-2-1998)
Sec. 8-363. - Cleanliness requirement.
Each vehicle operating under this article shall be kept painted, and in clean and sanitary condition, free of litter and debris, and at all times suitable for public transportation of passengers.
(Code 1998, § 14-528; Ord. No. 18-98, 11-2-1998)
Sec. 8-364. - Vehicle inspections required.
Each horse-drawn carriage may be inspected by the Inspector for compliance with the provisions of the article and shall pass the inspection before the vehicle may be used as a horse-drawn carriage in the city. Each horse-drawn carriage involved in an accident shall be inspected by the Inspector before it may be returned to service transporting passengers for hire. Inspections of the horse-drawn carriages may be done at any time by the Inspector.
(Code 1998, § 14-529; Ord. No. 18-98, 11-2-1998)
Sec. 8-365. - Authority for removal of horse-drawn carriages from streets.
The Inspector shall have the authority to remove from operation on the streets of the city any vehicle used as a horse-drawn carriage which is in violation of this article, and to prohibit operation of the horse-drawn carriage until all deficiencies have been corrected. An order of the Inspector to remove a vehicle from the streets may be appealed to the General Government Director, and then the Mayor and Council, as provided for in section 8-359(o). The appeal must be made in writing to the Mayor and Council no later than ten days after the Inspector has exercised his authority in removing a horse-drawn carriage from the street for violation of this article. The Mayor and Council must convene a hearing within ten calendar days of receipt of the appeal, and must render a written decision to the appellant within five calendar days of the close of the hearing.
(Code 1998, § 14-530; Ord. No. 18-98, 11-2-1998)
Sec. 8-366. - Rates of fare; rate card required.
No owner or driver of a horse-drawn carriage shall charge a greater sum for the use of the horse-drawn carriage than in accordance with the published and advertised rates which shall be displayed in each vehicle. Rates shall be displayed in such place as to be conspicuous and to be in clear view of all passengers.
(Code 1998, § 14-531; Ord. No. 18-98, 11-2-1998)
Sec. 8-367. - Driver not to leave vehicle while waiting to be hired.
It is unlawful for any driver of any horse-drawn carriage to leave the vehicle, or the immediate premises thereof, while the vehicle is parked and while waiting to be hired.
(Code 1998, § 14-532; Ord. No. 18-98, 11-2-1998)
Sec. 8-368. - Soliciting passengers prohibited.
It shall be unlawful for any person to solicit passengers verbally or by gesture, directly or indirectly.
(Code 1998, § 14-533; Ord. No. 18-98, 11-2-1998)
Sec. 8-369. - Restriction on number of passengers.
No driver shall permit more persons to be carried in a horse-drawn carriage as passengers than the seating capacity of his horse-drawn carriage.
(Code 1998, § 14-534; Ord. No. 18-98, 11-2-1998)
Sec. 8-370. - Refusal to carry orderly passengers prohibited.
No driver shall refuse or neglect to convey any orderly persons, upon request, unless previously engaged or unable or forbidden by the provisions of this article to do so.
(Code 1998, § 14-535; Ord. No. 18-98, 11-2-1998)
Sec. 8-371. - Weight restrictions.
The aggregate weight of the carriage, passengers and driver shall not exceed two times the body weight of the horse.
(Code 1998, § 14-536; Ord. No. 18-98, 11-2-1998)
Sec. 8-372. - Horse-drawn carriage movement prohibited under certain circumstances.
No driver shall collect fares, make change, or take on or discharge passengers while his horse-drawn carriage is in motion.
(Code 1998, § 14-537; Ord. No. 18-98, 11-2-1998)
Sec. 8-373. - Property left by passenger.
Any horse-drawn carriage driver or operator, discovering in any horse-drawn carriage under his control, personal property which was lost or left therein by a passenger of such horse-drawn carriage, shall report the loss, and deliver all the property to the Police Department within two hours after the discovery of the property.
(Code 1998, § 14-538; Ord. No. 18-98, 11-2-1998)
Sec. 8-374. - Safety equipment required.
(a)
Each horse-drawn carriage shall be equipped with electrically powered lights or lanterns and reflectors. Such lights shall be in use when operating during the hours of darkness and when raining. The lights and reflectors shall be mounted so that they are visible from a distance of 500 feet in all directions. Each horse-drawn carriage shall have on board at all times a first aid kit.
(b)
Each horse-drawn carriage shall be equipped with a suitable friction braking system which will enable the carriage to stop. Said braking system shall be functional and operative at all times.
(Code 1998, § 14-539; Ord. No. 18-98, 11-2-1998)
Sec. 8-375. - Area of operation.
The Mayor and Council may elect to set a route for horse-drawn carriages.
(Code 1998, § 14-540; Ord. No. 18-98, 11-2-1998)
Sec. 8-376. - Sanitation requirements.
Manure and urine must be immediately treated with a chemical deodorizing solution, and manure must be removed immediately from the street by the carriage operator. Each carriage must be equipped with a suitable scoop shovel and airtight container. Horse diapers, which prevent excrement from being deposited on the street surface, may be used in lieu of a scoop shovel and an airtight container at the option of the operator. In the case of horse diapers, the diapers must be approved for efficiency by the Inspector before they are used.
(Code 1998, § 14-541; Ord. No. 18-98, 11-2-1998)
Sec. 8-377. - Traffic violations.
(a)
Horse-drawn carriages shall be prohibited from stopping in traffic or delaying any on-street traffic for the purposes of loading or unloading passengers or for any other purposes.
(b)
Every person riding any animal upon a roadway and every person driving any animal-drawn vehicle within the city limits shall be subject to the provisions of this article and shall operate the vehicles in accordance with the traffic laws of the city, as well as the state.
(c)
Due to the nature of operating animal-drawn vehicles in areas of congestion and heavy traffic within the city, it shall be unlawful to operate the animal-drawn vehicles except when the animals are under complete control at all times and shall be operated with extra caution and due care for the safety of others.
(Code 1998, § 14-542; Ord. No. 18-98, 11-2-1998)
Sec. 8-378. - Impediment of traffic flow.
It shall be unlawful for any horse-drawn carriage to willfully impede the normal flow of traffic on any city street, alley or thoroughfare at any time. Horse-drawn carriages will be required to pull immediately to the nearest curb area when one or more vehicles are unable to safely pass or continue in normal traffic flow.
(Code 1998, § 14-543; Ord. No. 18-98, 11-2-1998)
Sec. 8-379. - Limits to the number of horse-drawn carriages.
It shall be unlawful for any horse-drawn carriage company to operate more than two horse-drawn carriages for hire on the streets of the city at any given time. The Mayor and Council may authorize more than two carriages to operate upon the company's request. Said request shall be in writing indicating the company's needs for an additional carriage. The Mayor and Council may approve the request for special events or with respect to special circumstances.
(Code 1998, § 14-544; Ord. No. 18-98, 11-2-1998)
Sec. 8-380. - Compliance required.
Failure to comply with this article or any of the laws, ordinances and regulations of this city can result in the revocation of the permit and punishment in municipal court. Any ordinance or laws of this city, county, state, or federal agency which governs the treatment of animals, including horses or other animals of burden, must be complied with by the horse-drawn carriage operator, passengers or agents of the horse-drawn carriage company.
(Code 1998, § 14-545; Ord. No. 18-98, 11-2-1998)
Sec. 8-381. - Violations; penalty.
Any person violating the provisions of this article shall be guilty of a misdemeanor, punishable as provided in section 1-11. In addition, violation of this article shall also be grounds for immediate suspension or revocation of the license issued under this chapter.
(Code 1998, § 14-546; Ord. No. 18-98, 11-2-1998)
Secs. 8-382—8-405. - Reserved.
