ARTICLE IX. - GENERAL PROVISIONS

Sec. 9.10. - Bonds for officials.
The officers and employees of the city, both elective and appointive, shall execute such surety or fidelity bonds in the amounts and upon such terms and conditions as the city council shall from time to time require by ordinance or as may be provided by law.
Sec. 9.11. - Existing ordinances, resolutions, rules and regulations.
Existing ordinances, resolutions, rules and regulations of the City of Norcross not in conflict with the provisions of this Charter shall continue in force, unless repealed or amended by the city council. To the extent the Code of the City of Norcross conflicts with this Charter, the Charter shall control. Existing rules and regulations of departments or agencies not in conflict with the provisions of this Charter shall continue in force until they have been repealed or amended.
Sec. 9.12. - Construction.
(a)
Section captions in this Charter are informative only and shall not be considered as a part thereof.
(b)
The word "shall" is mandatory and the word "may" is permissive.
(c)
The singular shall include the plural, the masculine shall include the feminine, and vice versa.
Sec. 9.13. - Penalties.
The violation of any provision of this Charter, for which a penalty is not specifically provided for herein, shall be punishable by a fine of not more than $1,000.00 or by imprisonment not to exceed 30 days or both such fine and imprisonment.
Sec. 9.14. - Existing personnel and officers.
Except as specifically provided otherwise by this Charter, all personnel and officers of the city and their rights, privileges, and powers shall continue beyond the time this Charter takes effect for a period of 30 days before or during which the existing city council shall pass a transition ordinance detailing the changes in personnel and appointive officers required or desired and arranging such titles, rights, privileges and powers as may be required or desired to allow a reasonable transition.
Sec. 9.15. - Pending matters.
Except as specifically provided otherwise by this Charter, all rights, claims, actions, orders, contracts and legal or administrative proceedings shall continue and any such ongoing work or cases shall be completed by such city agencies, personnel or offices as may be provided by the city council.
Sec. 9.16. - Severability.
If any article, section, subsection, paragraph, sentence or part of this Charter shall be held to be invalid or unconstitutional, such invalidity or unconstitutionality shall not affect or impair the other parts of this Charter unless it clearly appears that such other parts are wholly and necessarily dependent upon the part held to be invalid or unconstitutional, it being the legislative intent in enacting this Charter that each article, section, subsection, paragraph, sentence or part thereof be enacted separately and independent of each other.
Sec. 9.17. - Specific repealer.
An Act incorporating the City of Norcross, in the County of Gwinnett, approved February 11, 1977 (1977 Ga. Laws, page 2546), is repealed in its entirety and all amendatory acts thereto are likewise repealed in their entirety.
Sec. 9.18. - General repealer.
All laws and parts of laws in conflict with this Act are repealed.
