Subpart B - RELATED LAWS
ARTICLE II. - HOMESTEAD EXEMPTION FROM AD VALOREM TAXATION[1]

Footnotes:
--- (1) ---
Editor's note— Printed herein is 1990 Ga. Laws (Act No. 798) p. 3941, as enacted by the Georgia General Assembly. Amendments are indicated by parenthetical history notes following amended provisions. The absence of a history note indicates that the provision remains unchanged from the original Act. Any provisions regarding the notice to introduce legislation, call for special election, form of ballot, and the repealing clause have been omitted. Obvious misspellings and punctuation errors have been corrected without notation. The style used for headings and catchlines has been made uniform and consistent with those appearing in the Code. Additions made for clarity, such as consistent state statute citations and catchline modifications, are indicated by brackets.

Sec. 1. - Statutory authorization.
The following legislation pertaining to homestead exemptions in the City of Norcross is enacted pursuant to article VII, section II, paragraph II of the Constitution of the State of Georgia, relating to exemptions from taxation of property.
Sec. 2. - Exemptions granted.
(a)
Each resident of the City of Norcross is granted a homestead exemption from all City of Norcross ad valorem taxes levied by the city, except taxes to pay interest on the retired bonded indebtedness, in the amount of $9,000.00 of the value of the homestead owned and occupied by said resident within the City of Norcross. The value of the homestead in excess of the exempted amount shall remain subject to taxation.
(b)
Each resident of the City of Norcross who is 62 years of age or older is granted a homestead exemption from all City of Norcross ad valorem taxes levied by the city in the amount of $18,000.00 of the value of the homestead owned and occupied by said resident within the City of Norcross. The value of the homestead in excess of the exempted amount shall remain subject to taxation.
(c)
The increased homestead exemptions provided in this Act shall apply to all taxable years beginning after December 31, 1989.
