ARTICLE I. - IN GENERAL

Sec. 38-1. - Purpose.
The regulations set forth herein are enacted to implement a comprehensive plan for land uses in order to encourage the most appropriate use of land; to maintain and stabilize the value of property; to prevent the overcrowding of land and undue concentrations of population and to create a comprehensive and stable pattern of land uses which will facilitate the planning and provision of transportation, water, sewage, schools, parks and other facilities; and to promote the health, safety and welfare of present and future inhabitants.
(Ord. of 8-11-1997, art. I, § 3)
Sec. 38-2. - Definitions.
The following words, terms and phrases, when used in this chapter, shall have the meanings ascribed to them in this section, except where the context clearly indicates a different meaning:
Accessory building means a garage, or other building or structure subordinated to and not forming an integral part of the main principal building on a lot or parcel but pertaining to the use of the main building.
Alley means a narrow thoroughfare dedicated or used for public passageway up to 20 feet in width, which usually abuts the rear of the premises, or upon which service entrances or buildings abut, and which is not generally used as a thoroughfare by both pedestrians and vehicles, which is not used for general traffic, and which is not otherwise officially designated as a street; a way which affords only a secondary means of access to abutting property.
Alterations means any change in the arrangement of a building, including any work affecting the structural parts of a building; or an enlargement; or any change in wiring, plumbing, heating, or cooling system; and includes the words "to alter" and "alter."
Apartment building means a building which is used or intended to be used as a home or residence for more than two families living in separate quarters.
Automotive sales and services means the sale or storage of new or used automobiles, including paint and body repair shops.
Boathouse means a house or shed for sheltering one or more boats.
Boundary of district means the centerline of a street or right-of-way or the centerline of an alleyway between the rear or side property lines, or, where no alley or passageway exists, the rear or side property lines of all lots bordering on any zoning district limits or any zoning district boundary shown on the zoning map, or the boundary of the city. In some instances, the boundary of a district may follow some logical split in an existing parcel.
Buildable area means that portion of any lot which may be used or built upon in accordance with the regulations governing the given zoning district within which the particular lot is located, once the various front, side and rear yards required for the district have been subtracted from the total lot area.
Building means any structure having a roof entirely separated from any other structure by space or by walls, having no communicating doors or windows or any similar opening, and being erected for the purpose of providing support or shelter for persons, animals, things or property of any kind, and having a foundation to which it is anchored.
Building and zoning inspector means any person provided by county to inspect, determine compliance with, and render decisions concerning the compliance of structures and lots within the city.
Building height means the vertical distance measured from the average elevation of a finished building site, of a building with a gabled or hip roof, to the top of the roof of the uppermost story or to the deck line of a mansard roof. The height of a building with a flat or nearly flat roof, less than seven degrees from the horizontal, shall be measured from the footing as stated above to the highest point of the roof.
Building line means a line delineating the minimum allowable distance between the street right-of-way and nearest extreme projection of a building (including all areas covered by any vertical projections to the ground or overhang, walls, roof, or any other part of the structure).
Building site means the ground area of a building together with all open spaces surrounded by the building.
Camper means a motor home, tent, trailer, or other self-contained vehicle designed for recreational purposes.
Centerline, highway, means the line running parallel with the highway right-of-way which is half the distance between the extreme edges of the official right-of-way.
Certified survey means a survey, sketch, plat, map, or other exhibit is shall be certified when a written statement regarding its accuracy and conformity to specified standards of law is signed by the state registered land surveyor certifying same.
Church means a legally approved structure and its accessory buildings used and approved on a permanent basis, primarily for religious worship.
Club, private, means an organization or association of persons for some common purpose, such as, but not necessarily limited to, a fraternal, social, educational or recreational purpose; but not including clubs organized primarily for profit or to render a service, which is customarily carried on as a business. Such organizations and associations must be incorporated under state law as a non-profit corporation and such corporations' major purpose and shall not be for the purpose of serving alcoholic beverages to its member or others. This may not be located on, or operated by, or in connection with any commercial use.
Comprehensive land use plan means this chapter and the city zoning map. See " Family. "
Conditional use means those uses allowed within a district at the discretion of the city council. The local city council at its discretion may require additional restraints, restrictions, qualifications, or limiting factors upon a specific use so that it becomes acceptable.
Condominium means a building or series of buildings on the same lot or portions thereof containing more than one dwelling unit under separate ownership with joint ownership of common open spaces.
Density means the number of units or buildings per acre, or the number of people per unit, building, acre or mile, the quantity of people, structures, or units within a specified area.
Depth of lot means the depth between its mean front street line and its mean rear line, measured along the median between the two side lot lines.
Dwelling, group, means a building or portion of a building occupied or intended for occupancy by several unrelated persons or families, but in which separate cooking facilities are not provided for such resident persons or families. The term "group dwelling" includes, but is not limited to, the terms "roominghouse," "apartment hotel," "fraternity house," or "sorority house," "personal care home," "Y.M.C.A.," or "Y.W.C.A." A hotel, motel, or tourist home shall not be deemed to be a group dwelling as herein defined.
Engineer means any person having an acceptable degree from a recognized institution of higher learning who is capable of determining the correct manner in which to construct roads, streets, highways, water and sewerage systems, drainage system, structures or other technical related areas. That person is to be certified and recognized by the state as an engineer.
Entertainment facility means an establishment operated for the purpose of providing entertainment.
Estate means any residential site comprising five acres or more.
Family means one or more persons related by blood, marriage, or adoption, or a group of not to exceed five persons not all related by blood or marriage, occupying the premises and living as a single non-profit housekeeping unit as distinguished from a group occupying a boardinghouse or lodginghouse, hotel, club, or similar dwelling for group use. A family shall be deemed to include domestic servants employed by the family.
Floodprone areas means that land adjacent to a creek, stream, river, channel, canal or other body of water that is designated as a floodplain or flood-prone area by a governmental agency.
Floor area means the sum of the gross floor area for each of the several stories under the roof, measured from the interior limits or faces of a building or structure.
Floor area ratio means floor area of buildings on any lot divided by the area of the lot.
Frontage means the distance or width of a parcel of land abutting a public right-of-way and as measured upon such right-of-way.
Garage, city, means a structure or series of structures under one roof, and under one ownership, for the storage of vehicles by three or more owners or occupants of property in the vicinity where the structure has no public shop or mechanical services in connection therewith.
Garage, private, means a structure for the private use of the owner or occupant of a principal building, situated on the same lot as the principal building for the storage of motor vehicles with no facilities for mechanical service.
Garage, public, means a structure for the storage, care, repair, or refinishing of motor vehicles, or a structure containing a public shop, or where automobile mechanical service is provided.
Gas station means a structure designated or used for the retail sale or supply of fuel, lubricants, air, water, and other operating commodities for motor vehicles and including the customary spacing and facilities for the installation of such commodities on, or in, such vehicles, but not including space or facilities for the storage, painting, repair, refinishing, body work, or other servicing of motor vehicles.
Highway means any public thoroughfare of paving 22 feet or wider including streets, which affords primary access to abutting property, and any thoroughfare of less width which is not classified as an alley (street).
Hospital means an institution providing health services, primarily for in-patients, and medical and surgical care of the sick or injured, including as an integral part of the institution such related facilities, central service facilities, and staff offices.
Hotel means a building occupied as the more or less temporary residence of individuals who are lodged, with or without meals, and in which there are ten or more sleeping rooms with entrances through a common lobby or office.
Junk means all scrap metals and their alloys, and bones, rags, used cloth, used rubber, used rope, used bottles, old cotton or used machinery, automobile wrecking, used tools, used appliances, used fixtures, used utensils, used boxes or crates, used pipe or pipe fittings, discarded building materials, used automotive or airplane tires, and other manufactured goods that are so worn, deteriorated or obsolete as to make them unusable in their existing condition; subject to being dismantled.
Junkyard means a lot, land or structure, or part thereof, used for the collecting, storage and sale of wastepaper, rags, scrap metal, discarded building materials or discarded machinery or vehicles not in running condition, or for the sale of parts thereof.
Lot means a parcel of land shown on a recorded plat or any piece of land described by a legally recorded deed.
Lot, corner, means any lot situated at the junction of and abutting on two or more intersections or intersecting streets or public highways. If the angle or intersections of the direction lines of two highways is more than 135 degrees, the lot fronting on the intersection is not a corner lot.
Lot, interior, means any lot which is not a corner lot that has frontage only on one street.
Lot lines, front, means in the case of a lot abutting upon only one street, the front lot line is the line separating such lot from such right-of-way. In the case of a corner lot, that part of the lot having the narrowest frontage on any street shall be considered the front lot line. In the case of any other lot, one such line shall be elected to be the front lot line for the purpose of this chapter, provided it is so designated by the building plans which meet the approval of the building and zoning inspector.
Lot lines, rear, means the rear lot line is that boundary which is opposite and most distant from the front lot line. In the case of a lot pointed at the rear, or any odd-shaped lot, the rear lot line shall be determined by the building and zoning inspector.
Lot lines, side, means any lot boundary line not a front lot line or a rear lot line. A side lot line separating a lot from another lot is an interior side lot line.
Lot, through, means any lot having frontage on two parallel or approximately parallel streets or other thoroughfares.
Lounge means a commercial establishment dispensing alcoholic beverages for consumption on the premises and where dancing and entertainment is permitted.
Manufactured home means a structure, transportable in one or more sections, which, in the traveling mode, is eight body feet or more in width or 40 body feet or more in length or, when erected on site, is 320 or more square feet and which is built on a permanent chassis and designed to be used as a dwelling with or without a permanent foundation when connected to the required utilities and includes the plumbing, heating, air-conditioning, and electrical systems contained therein; except that the term "manufactured home" shall include any structure which meets all the requirements of this definition except the size requirements and with respect to which the manufacturer voluntarily files a certification required by the Secretary of Housing and Urban Development and complies with the standards established under the National Manufactured Housing Construction and Safety Standards Act of 1974, 42 USC Section 5401 et seq.
Mapped streets means any approved street shown on an official map or the projection of any existing street through an unsubdivided parcel of land, whether the street is dedicated or in existence or not.
Marshland means all land subject to tidal action which is comprised of generally unstable soil materials commonly known as "hard or soft" marsh, which in its natural state is vegetated with marsh grass, reeds and similar growth and is usually characterized by poor load-bearing capacity. Marshland lies below an elevation of 5.6 feet above mean sea level.
Mobilehome means a structure, transportable in one or more sections, which, in the traveling mode, is eight body feet or more in width or 40 body feet or more in length or, when erected on site, is 320 or more square feet and which is built on a permanent chassis and designed to be used as a dwelling with or without a permanent foundation when connected to the required utilities and includes the plumbing, heating, air-conditioning, and electrical systems contained therein and manufactured prior to June 15, 1976.
Motel or motor hotel means a building or group of two or more buildings designed to provide sleeping accommodations for guests. Each building shall contain a minimum of ten residential units or rooms which generally have direct, private openings to a street, drive, or patio, etc.
Nonconforming lot means any lot which is smaller than the minimum dimensions, area, or other regulations of the district in which the lot is located.
Nonconforming use means use of any property or premises in any manner which does not comply with the regulations provided for the district in which the property or premises is situated, if such use was originally legally established at the effective date of the ordinance from which this chapter was derived or any amendment thereof.
Parking space means that area required for the parking or storage of one automobile, including necessary aisle or driveway space providing access thereto.
Personal care homes means and includes rest and nursing homes, convalescent homes and boarding homes for the aged; established to render nursing care for chronic or convalescent patients, but excludes facilities for care of active or violent patients such as feeble-minded or mental patients, epileptics, alcoholics, senile psychotics, or drug addicts.
Planning commission means an appointed body of people by the local city council whose responsibilities include the guidance of growth and development within the municipality and interpreting of the various municipal regulatory ordinances. The planning commission in this chapter is the Liberty County Joint Planning Commission.
Principal building means the building situated or to be placed nearest the front property line and the use of which conforms to the primary use permitted by the zoning classification in which it is located.
Professional services means the conduct of business in any of the following or related categories: law; architecture; accounting; engineering; medicine; dentistry; optometry; osteopathy; chiropractic; optician; planning, or consulting of the nature of the aforestated categories and which do not include outside storage space for business vehicles or equipment.
Public body means any government or governmental agency of the city, county, the state, or the United States Government.
Public use means use by the general public; or use of any land, water, or buildings by a municipality, public body or board, commission or authority, county, state or the federal government, or any agency thereof for a public service or purpose.
Repairs means restoration of portions of a building to its condition as before decay, wear or damage, but not including alteration of the shape or size of any portion of the structure.
Residence, multifamily, means a building designed for three or more dwelling units to be occupied by a number of families not exceeding the number of dwelling units provided.
Residence, single-family, means a detached building designed for one dwelling unit to be occupied exclusively by one family.
Residence, two-family, means a detached building designed to be occupied by two families living independently of each other.
Residential means any lot, plot, parcel, tract, area, or piece of land or any building used exclusively for family dwelling purposes or intended to be used, including concomitant uses specified herein.
Restaurant means an establishment where food is prepared and served or delivered to the public.
Right-of-way line means the outside boundaries of a highway right-of-way, whether such right-of-way is established by usage, dedication or by the official right-of-way.
Setback means the minimum horizontal distance between the right-of-way line, rear or side lines of the lot and the front, rear or side lines of the building. When two or more lots under one ownership are used, the exterior property line so grouped shall be used in determining offsets. When a lot abuts on a street or road which has a right-of-way of less than 60 feet, the minimum setback for front, rear, or side yard shall be increased by the number of feet required to provide the same number of feet from the center of the road or street, as if the road or street had a right-of-way of 60 feet.
Site means an area designated as a separate and distinct parcel of land on a legally recorded subdivision plat or in a legally recorded deed.
Story means that portion of a building included between the surface of any floor and the surface of the floor next above it; or if there is no floor above it, then the space between the floor and ceiling next above it.
Street means a public or private thoroughfare which affords the principal means of access to abutting property.
Structural alterations means any change in the shape or size of any portion of a building or of the supporting members of a building or structure such as walls, columns, beams, arches, girders, floor joists, or roof joists.
Structure means anything constructed or erected, the use of which requires rigid location on the ground or attachment to something having a permanent location on the ground; provided, however, that utility poles, fences and walls (other than building walls) shall not be considered to be structures.
Subdivision means all divisions of a tract or parcel of land for residential purposes into two or more lots, building sites, or other divisions for the purpose, whether immediate or future, of sale, legacy, or building development and includes all division of land involving a new street or a change in existing streets, and includes resubdivision and, where appropriate, to the process of subdividing or to the land or area subdivided.
Surveyor means a person who determines or delineates the form, extent, position, distance or shape of a tract of land by taking linear and angular measurements, and by applying the principles of geometry and trigonometry.
Trailer means a non-self-propelled vehicle or conveyance permanently equipped to travel upon the public highways that provides temporary use as a residence or living quarters or office; serves as a carrier of people, new or used goods, products or equipment; or is used as a selling, advertising or display device, whether or not the wheels have been removed and whether or not set on jacks, skirts, masonry blocks or other foundation.
Use means the purpose for which land or a building is arranged, designed or intended, or for which either land or a building is or may be occupied or maintained.
Variance means a modification of the strict terms of this chapter granted by the city council in its discretion where such modification will not be contrary to the public interest; and where, owing to conditions peculiar to the property and not as the result of any action on the part of the property owner, a literal enforcement of the ordinance would result in unnecessary and undue hardship; and where such modification will not authorize a principal or accessory use of the property which is not permitted within the zoning district in which the property is located.
Waterfront means any property provided any or all of its lot lines abut on or are contiguous to any body of water including creek, canal, river, or any other body of water, natural or artificial, including marshland, not including a swimming pool, whether the lot line is front, rear, or side.
Yard means an open space on the same lot with a building; the space lies between the building and nearest lot or street line.
Yard, front, means that area of open space to the front of the platted lot, the area immediately adjacent to the street side of the lot. If streets bound on two sides of the lot, the narrower portion fronting on a street shall be declared the front. See Lot line, front.
Yard, rear, means that area of open space that is opposite the area delineated as the front; that area of greatest distance from the street. See Lot line, rear.
Yard, side, means that area of open space that is immediately adjacent to the side lot lines. See Lot line, side .
(Ord. of 8-11-1997, art. II)
Sec. 38-3. - Interpretation.
In interpreting and applying the provisions of this chapter, they shall be held to minimum requirements for the promotion of the public safety, health, convenience, comfort, morals, prosperity and general welfare. It is not intended by this chapter to interfere with or abrogate or annul any ordinance, rules, regulations, or permits previously adopted or issued and not in conflict with any of the provisions of this chapter, or which shall be adopted or issued, pursuant to law relating to the use of buildings or premises and likewise not in conflict with this chapter; nor is it intended by this chapter to interfere with or abrogate or annul any easements, covenants, or other agreements between parties not in conflict with this chapter.
(Ord. of 8-11-1997, art. XII, § 1)
Sec. 38-4. - Jurisdiction.
Jurisdiction over violations of the official zoning chapter of the city shall repose with the municipal court of the city or with that court from time to time providing municipal court services to the city pursuant to a contract authorized by law. Complaints of violations of the official zoning chapter shall be brought on a citation issued by the building and zoning inspector or by any officer authorized by law to make complaints in the court then having jurisdiction and shall be served, processed and disposed of in accordance with the procedures and requirements of the court then having jurisdiction.
(Ord. of 8-11-1997, art. XIII, § 2)
Sec. 38-5. - Penalties.
(a)
Violation of the provisions of this chapter or failure to comply with any of its requirements, including violation of conditions and safeguards established in connection with grants of variance or special exceptions, shall upon conviction be punishable by a fine not to exceed $500.00 or imprisonment for not more than 60 days, or both, and in addition, the violator shall pay all costs and expenses involved in the prosecution of such offense. Each day such violation continues shall be considered a separate offense subject to separate punishment. Nothing herein contained shall prevent the building and zoning inspector of the county from taking such other lawful action as is necessary to prevent or remedy any violation.
(b)
In addition to the criminal penalties listed above, violation of the provisions of the zoning chapter, as amended, shall be cause for denial of a certificate of occupancy or a business license, and where a business license has already been granted, shall be cause for suspension, revocation or denial of renewal of such business license.
(Ord. of 8-11-1997, art. XIII, §§ 1, 3)
Secs. 38-6—38-28. - Reserved.
