Chapter 22 - OFFENSES AND NUISANCES
ARTICLE I. - IN GENERAL

Sec. 22-1. - Disorderly conduct.
It shall be unlawful and disorderly conduct for any person to:
(1)
Act in a violent or tumultuous manner toward another, whereby a reasonable person would be placed in fear of safety for life or limb;
(2)
Place the property of another in serious danger of being destroyed or damaged;
(3)
Use fighting words directed toward another, who becomes outraged and thus creates a turmoil;
(4)
Violently interfere with another's pursuit of a lawful occupation; or
(5)
Congregate with others to halt the flow of vehicular or pedestrian traffic and refuse to clear the way when ordered by lawful authority to do so.
(Code 1955, § 9-1-1)
Sec. 22-2. - Public drunkenness.
It shall be unlawful for any person to be on the streets of the city or in any public place in an intoxicated condition.
(Code 1955, § 9-1-2)
Sec. 22-3. - Noise; creating unnecessary noise.
(a)
The creating of any unreasonably loud, disturbing and unnecessary noise within the city limits is prohibited. Noise of such character, intensity or duration as to be detrimental to the life or health of any individual, or in disturbance of the public peace and welfare, is prohibited.
(b)
The following acts, among others, are declared to be loud, disturbing and unnecessary noises and noises in violation of this section, but this enumeration shall not be deemed to be exclusive, namely:
(1)
Horns. The sounding of any horn or signal device on any automobile, motorcycle, bus or other vehicle, while not in motion except as a danger signal if another vehicle is approaching apparently out of control, or, if in motion, only as a danger signal; the creation by means of any such signal device of any unreasonably loud or harsh sound or the sounding of that device for an unnecessary or unreasonable period of time.
(2)
Musical instruments. The playing of any radio, phonograph or any musical instrument in such a manner or with such volume, particularly during the hours between 12:00 midnight and 7:00 a.m., as to annoy or disturb the quiet, comfort or repose of persons in any office, hospital or in any dwelling, hotel or other type of residence, or any persons in the vicinity, except this section shall not apply to schools of music between the hours of 7:00 a.m. and 10:00 p.m.
(3)
Voices. Yelling, shouting, hooting, whistling or singing on the public streets, particularly between the hours of 12:00 midnight and 7:00 a.m., or at any time or place so as to annoy or disturb the quiet, comfort or repose of persons in any hospital, dwelling, hotel or other type of residence, or any persons in the vicinity.
(4)
Noisy vehicle. The use of any automobile, motorcycle or vehicle so out of repair, so loaded or in any manner as to create loud and unnecessary grating, grinding or rattling, or other noise.
(5)
Steam whistles. The blowing of any steam whistle attached to any stationary boiler, except to give notice of the time to begin or stop work, or as a warning of fire or danger, or upon request of proper city authority.
(6)
Exhausts. To discharge into the open air the exhaust of any stationary steam engine, stationary internal combustion engine, motor vehicle or motorboat engine, except through a muffler or other device which will effectively prevent loud or explosive noises therefrom.
(7)
Construction work. The erection (including excavating), demolition, alteration or repair of any building in any residential district or section, the excavation of streets and highways in any residential district or section, other than between the hours of 7:00 a.m. and 6:00 p.m. on weekdays except in cases of urgent necessity, and then only with a permit from the city, which permit may be granted for a period not to exceed 60 days while the emergency continues.
(8)
On streets of institutions requiring quiet. The creation of any excessive noise on any street adjacent to any school, institution of learning, church or court while the same are in session, or adjacent to any hospital, which unreasonably interferes with the workings or sessions thereof.
(9)
Loudspeakers on vehicles. The use of mechanical loudspeakers or amplifiers on trucks or other moving or standing vehicles for advertising or other purposes.
(10)
Animals; birds. The keeping of any animal or bird which shall disturb the comfort or repose of any persons in the vicinity by making long, continual or frequent noise.
(c)
None of the foregoing terms or prohibitions shall apply to or be enforced against:
(1)
Any vehicle of the city while engaged upon necessary public business;
(2)
Excavations or repairs of bridges, streets or highways, by or on behalf of the city, county or state when the public welfare and convenience renders it impossible to perform that work during the day; nor shall the same apply to work performed by public utility companies under like conditions and circumstances, or when there is urgent necessity therefor; and
(3)
The reasonable use of amplifiers or loudspeakers in the course of public addresses which are noncommercial in character.
(d)
The prohibitions shall not be applicable to any parade, celebration or performance for which a written permit has been obtained prior thereto from the city clerk.
(e)
It shall be unlawful to use, maintain or operate loudspeakers, sound trucks, amplifiers or other mechanical or electrical devices for increasing the volume of sound, upon the streets, sidewalks, parks or other public places of the city; provided that nothing in this section shall apply to the United States of America, the state, the county nor the city, nor to public agencies.
(Code 1955, § 9-1-3)
Sec. 22-4. - Posting signs on poles without consent.
It shall be unlawful for any person to post or display in or upon any bridge any sign or advertisement, or to post or display upon any telegraph, telephone or electric company's pole, or upon any public property or the private property of any person any bills, signs or advertisements without the consent in writing of the owner thereof.
(Code 1955, § 9-1-4)
Sec. 22-5. - Weapons; discharge in city.
It shall be unlawful for any person to discharge a firearm, including pistol, rifle and shotgun, or to shoot an air gun, including BB gun and pellet gun, within the city, except by law enforcement officers in the line of duty, and the military when on drill or parade, or at a funeral in honor of the dead; provided, however, it shall not be unlawful for any person to shoot a BB gun upon private property if that person shall have first obtained the express permission of the owner of that property to do so.
(Code 1955, § 9-1-5)
Sec. 22-6. - Fortunetelling prohibited.
It shall be unlawful for any person or company to engage in the business of fortunetelling, Indian advisor or any related activity, whether for profit or not, within the city limits.
(Code 1955, § 9-1-6; Ord. of 3-6-1969)
Secs. 22-7—22-30. - Reserved.
ARTICLE II. - NUISANCES AND NUISANCE ABATEMENT
DIVISION 1. - GENERALLY

Sec. 22-31. - Definition.
The following conditions may be declared to be nuisances:
(1)
Stagnant water on premises;
(2)
Any dead or decaying matter, weeds, vegetation or any fruit, vegetable, animal or rodent, upon premises which is odorous or capable of causing disease or annoyance to the inhabitants of the city;
(3)
The generation of smoke or fumes in sufficient amount to cause odor or annoyance to the inhabitants of the city;
(4)
The pollution of public water;
(5)
Maintaining a dangerous or diseased animal or fowl;
(6)
Obstruction of a public street, highway or sidewalk without a permit;
(7)
Loud or unusual noises which are detrimental or annoying to the public, including without limitation, unusual loud disturbances in or around churches or multiple-family complexes such as loud music and other activities in swimming pool and clubhouse areas;
(8)
All walls, trees and buildings that may endanger persons or property;
(9)
Any business or building where illegal activities are habitually and commonly conducted in such a manner as to reasonably suggest that the owner or operator of the business or building was aware of the illegal activities and failed to reasonably attempt to prevent those activities;
(10)
Unused iceboxes, refrigerators and the like unless the doors, latches or locks thereof are removed;
(11)
Any trees, shrubbery or other plants or parts thereof, which obstruct clear, safe vision on roadways and intersections of the city; and
(12)
Any other condition constituting a nuisance under state law.
(Code 1955, § 9-2-1)
Secs. 22-32—22-50. - Reserved.
DIVISION 2. - ABATEMENT, VIOLATIONS AND PENALTIES

Sec. 22-51. - Jurisdiction to try and abate.
The recorder's court shall have full jurisdiction to try and dispose of all questions of nuisance affecting the public health or welfare, and shall also have jurisdiction to try and, in case of conviction, to punish persons failing to abate nuisances, as prescribed in section 1-6.
(Code 1955, § 9-2-2)
Sec. 22-52. - Complaint of nuisance; hearing.
(a)
Any official or inhabitant of the city may direct a complaint of nuisance to the city police department, who shall investigate and may place the complaint on the recorder's court docket for a hearing upon the basis of the investigation. The recorder's court, after a ten-day notice to the party involved, shall hold a hearing thereon and upon finding that a nuisance does exist shall issue an order to the owner, agent in control of or tenant in possession, stating that a nuisance has been found to exist and that the nuisance must be abated within so many hours or days as the recorder shall deem reasonable, having consideration for the nature of the nuisance and its effect on the public.
(b)
Animal control officers, license and building inspectors shall and may also receive complaints, investigate the same and place on the court docket such complaints in the same manner as police officers.
(Code 1955, § 9-2-3)
Sec. 22-53. - Abatement by city.
(a)
In any case where the owner, agent or tenant fails to abate the nuisance in the time specified, or where the owner, agent or tenant cannot be served with notice, or where the nature of the nuisance is such, in the opinion of the recorder, that it must be immediately abated, the recorder may issue an order to the chief of police directing the nuisance to be abated. The chief of police in such case, shall keep record of the expenses and cost of abating same, and the costs shall be billed against the owner, agent or tenant for collection as for city revenues.
(b)
Other city departments shall assist the chief of police as is necessary in abating nuisances hereunder.
(Code 1955, § 9-2-4)
Sec. 22-54. - Nuisance per se, exception; summary abatement.
Nothing contained in this chapter shall prevent the mayor from summarily and without notice ordering the abatement of or abating any nuisance that is a nuisance per se in the law or where the case is an urgent one and the health and safety of the public or a portion thereof is in imminent danger.
(Code 1955, § 9-2-6)
Sec. 22-55. - Offense; penalty.
It is hereby declared to be an offense for any owner, agent or tenant to maintain or allow a nuisance to exist. Each day a nuisance is continued shall constitute a separate offense.
(Code 1955, § 9-2-6)
