Chapter 26 - SOLID WASTE
ARTICLE I. - IN GENERAL

Sec. 26-1. - Definitions.
The following words, terms and phrases, when used in this chapter, shall have the meanings ascribed to them in this section, except where the context clearly indicates a different meaning:
Ashes means and includes the waste products from coal, wood and other fuels used for cooking and heating from all public and private residences and establishments.
Building rubbish means waste material resulting from construction, remodeling, repairs and demolition operations on houses, commercial buildings and other structures, including driveways and walks, and it comprises waste and rejected matter such as excavated earth, stones, brick, plaster, wallpaper, sheetrock and latches, lumber, shingles, tile, concrete and waste parts occasioned by the installation or replacement of plumbing, heating systems, electrical work and roofing.
Garbage means waste accumulation of animal or vegetable matter used for or intended for food or that attends the preparation, use, cooking, dealing in or storing of meat, fish, fowl, fruit or vegetables.
Industrial waste means solid waste materials from factories, processing plants, wholesale establishments, assembling food processing wastes, cinders and ashes, lumber scraps, sawdust, excelsior, shavings, floor sweepings, metal scrap and shavings, glass and other waste products.
Rubbish means a variety of combustible and non-combustible waste not subject to rapid decomposition derived from places of residence, commercial areas and institutions and shall include paper, rags, plastics, cartons, boxes, cans, bottles, glass, crockery, excelsior, rubber, discarded clothing and similar materials.
Scavenge means uncontrolled picking from discarded solid waste materials.
Solid waste means putrescible and nonputrescible waste, except human body waste, and includes garbage, rubbish, paper, cartons, boxes, wood, tree branches, yard trimmings, furniture, appliances, metals, tin cans, glass, crockery, ashes, street refuse, dead animals, waste materials generated in industrial operations, residue incineration, food processing wastes, demolitions wastes, construction wastes and any other wastes in a solid or semi-solid state, not otherwise defined in this section.
Standard container means and includes a durable, rust resistant, nonabsorbent, rodent-proof, watertight plastic or metal container with handles or bails, having a tight-fitting cover, and having no more than a 30-gallon capacity.
Waste means unwanted or discarded material, except human body waste.
Yard rubbish means tree branches, stumps, stumps, twigs, grass and shrub trimmings, brushes, weeds, leaves and general yard and garden waste materials and includes stone and dirt rakings and any waste materials resulting from landscaping.
(Code 1955, § 4-2-1)
Secs. 26-2—26-20. - Reserved.
ARTICLE II. - STORAGE, COLLECTION AND DISPOSAL

Sec. 26-21. - Waste acceptable for collection.
Garbage, rubbish and industrial waste constitute waste acceptable for collection by the city.
Sec. 26-22. - Waste unacceptable for collection.
(a)
The following items constitute waste unacceptable for collection by the city:
(1)
Dangerous materials or substances such as poisons, acids, caustics and explosives;
(2)
Building rubbish;
(3)
Ashes;
(4)
Yard rubbish except as hereinafter provided;
(5)
Furniture and appliances;
(6)
Automobile and motor vehicle tires; and
(7)
All other solid waste not specifically authorized herein.
(b)
Any person responsible for waste not acceptable for collection by the city shall make any arrangements as may be necessary for the collection and disposal of the unacceptable waste.
(Code 1955, § 4-2-2)
Sec. 26-23. - Preparation and storage of acceptable waste.
(a)
The owner or occupant of each residence or business or commercial establishment shall store acceptable waste in standard containers which shall be provided by the owner or occupant and which shall at all times be maintained in a good state of repair. Each owner or occupant shall prevent the continued, excessive and unsightly accumulation of waste upon the property occupied by him.
(b)
Any acceptable waste that cannot be placed in standard containers shall be broken down and tied securely in bundles no larger than 36 inches square and placed alongside the standard containers for collection.
(Code 1955, § 4-2-4)
Sec. 26-24. - Place of collection; grass clippings; limbs.
(a)
Containers shall be placed at curbside on the day of collection.
(b)
Grass clippings, pine straw and leaves shall be placed on the street curb on pickup day. These items must be secured in disposable plastic bags of any type, size and material designed for solid waste storage and disposal. Disposable bags shall be unbroken and securely sealed and loaded in such a manner that normal handling will not cause the bag to open. No bag that cannot be loaded by one person shall be collected.
(c)
Fallen limbs, trees, cut limbs, cut trees and trash of this category shall be cut by the property owner into lengths of not more than four feet. Other trash, which shall include yard wastes, weeds, grass, trimmings, leaves, brush and pine straw, must be bagged. All trash and cuttings shall be placed as near as possible to the street or sidewalk right-of-way adjacent to the property owners' property but not so as to get into the street or block the sidewalk. At no time shall trash be placed in gutters, drains, walkways or alleys or streets of the city.
(Code 1955, § 4-2-5)
Sec. 26-25. - Unauthorized accumulation of solid waste; nuisance.
Any unauthorized accumulation of solid waste on any premises is hereby declared to be a nuisance and is prohibited. Failure to remove any existing accumulation of solid waste within a reasonable time as may be fixed by written notice from the city shall be deemed a violation of this chapter.
(Code 1955, § 4-2-6)
Sec. 26-26. - Scavenging.
No person other than the owner thereof shall interfere with any container placed for the purpose of storing solid waste pending collection, or remove or take any of the contents thereof, or remove any container from the location where the container has been placed by the owner thereof.
(Code 1955, § 4-2-7)
