Chapter 28 - STREETS AND SIDEWALKS
ARTICLE I. - IN GENERAL

Sec. 28-1. - Excavations.
(a)
Permit required. No person shall make any excavations or openings or dig any ditch, trench, tunnel or hole in, along, across or under any street, sidewalk or other public place for the purpose of laying or placing therein any pipe, wires, poles or for any other purpose, unless a written permit therefor has been issued by the city clerk. A permit shall not be required where the work is performed under a contract with the city but in the event that work requires a sidewalk or street to be wholly or partially obstructed, the person shall notify the city clerk and the police department at least two hours before obstructing the sidewalk or street, unless prevented by sudden emergency.
(b)
Application for permit. All persons desiring a permit in order to make an opening in any street or sidewalk, as set forth in this section, shall make written application therefor, which application shall show the location of the proposed opening, the purpose therefor and the approximate number of square yards of surface to be cut.
(c)
City indemnified. Any person obtaining a permit under this section agrees, as a condition of the issuance of the permit, to indemnify and hold harmless the city against any claims or expenses, including attorney's fees for bodily injury or property damage for accidents or occurrences arising out of the person's operations.
(d)
Restoration required. When any part of any street, sidewalk, alley or other public place of the city shall be torn or dug up for any purpose, the person making that excavation or opening shall have the duty of refilling the same condition that existed prior to the excavation or opening. Any person neglecting, refusing or failing to comply with any provisions of this section shall be guilty of a violation thereof; and where any neglect, refusal or failure is continued, after notice from the city clerk, every day's continuance thereafter shall constitute a separate and distinct offense.
(e)
Safety requirements. It is unlawful for any person who obtains a permit under the section of this chapter to do any excavation of any kind which may create or cause a dangerous condition in or near any street, alley, sidewalk or public place of the city without placing and maintaining proper guard rails and signal lights or other warnings at, in or around the work, sufficient to warn the public of any excavation or work, and to protect all persons using reasonable care from injuries on account of the work.
(Code 1955, §§ 4-1-1—4-1-3, 4-1-5)
Sec. 28-2. - Sidewalk construction.
No sidewalk of any description shall be built by any individual, firm or corporation, of any brick, wood or other material without a written permit from the city.
(Code 1955, § 4-1-6)
Sec. 28-3. - Streets and sidewalks not to be damaged.
It is unlawful for any person to drag or run, or cause to be dragged or run any harrow or other implement, engine, machine or tool upon the asphalt, bitulithic, warrenite or other type of permanently paved street or sidewalk of the city which shall be liable in any way to injure or cut the surface thereof. It is also unlawful to injure any dirt street in the same manner.
(Code 1955, § 4-1-7)
Secs. 28-4—28-24. - Reserved.
ARTICLE II. - PARADES

Sec. 28-25. - Parades; permit required.
It is unlawful for any person to participate in, conduct or accompany any organized parade or procession, other than a funeral procession, on the public streets, sidewalks or other public property in the city unless an application has been previously filed and a permit granted by the city to conduct such parade or procession within the city.
(Code 1955, § 7-4-1)
Sec. 28-26. - Application for permit.
An application for a permit to conduct or sponsor a parade or procession shall be filed with the city clerk and shall contain the following information furnished by the person in official charge of the proposed parade or procession:
(1)
The name of all organizations organizing or sponsoring the parade or procession;
(2)
The purpose of the parade or procession;
(3)
The date and hours of the parade or procession;
(4)
The proposed route of the parade or procession, and its beginning and termination points;
(5)
The number and types of vehicles, marching units and floats to be used in the parade or procession; and
(6)
The number of persons participating in the parade or procession.
(Code 1955, § 7-4-2)
Sec. 28-27. - Review by planning commission.
The city clerk shall ensure that the permit application is complete and the permit fee established by the city council, if any, has been paid, and shall then forward the application to the Liberty Consolidated Planning Commission for review. The commission shall review the application and submit its recommendations to the city clerk for presentation to the city council.
Sec. 28-28. - Determination by city council; issuance of permit.
The city council shall review the application together with the planning commission recommendations and shall grant or deny the permit. If the permit is granted, the city clerk shall issue the permit.
Secs. 28-29—28-49. - Reserved.
ARTICLE III. - ABANDONED PROPERTY

Sec. 28-50. - Abandoned vehicles and real property.
(a)
No vehicles which are inoperative or unlicensed shall be abandoned in the public right-of-way or on private property in excess of 30 days except within a completely enclosed garage.
(b)
For any public street or alley officially vacated or abandoned, the regulations applicable to each parcel of abutting property shall apply to the centerline of the property which is abandoned. In the event abandoned property is not divided at the centerline for abutting properties, the zoning districts applicable shall apply to such ownership line as determined by virtue of such abandonment.
(c)
For any public property other than streets or alleys, the regulations applicable to the zoning classifications of property which abuts the abandoned property for the greatest number of linear feet shall apply to the entire property.
(Ord. of 8-11-1997, art. III, §§ 1, 2)
