Chapter 14 - EMERGENCY MANAGEMENT AND SERVICES[1]
Footnotes:
--- (1) ---
State Law reference— Municipal home rule, Ga. Const. art. IX, § II, O.C.G.A. § 36-35-1 et seq.; state Emergency Management Act of 1975, O.C.G.A. § 38-3-1 et seq.; local organizations for emergency management, O.C.G.A. § 38-3-27; authority to promulgate local rules and regulations, O.C.G.A. § 38-3-28; mutual aid, O.C.G.A. § 36-69-1 et seq.; dispatch centers to have trained communications officers on staff, O.C.G.A. § 36-60-19; war on terrorism local assistance, O.C.G.A. § 36-75-1 et seq.

ARTICLE I. - IN GENERAL

Sec. 14-1. - Definitions.
The following words, terms and phrases, when used in this chapter, shall have the meanings ascribed to them in this section, except where the context clearly indicates a different meaning:
Curfew means a regulation requiring the withdrawal from any person not otherwise exempt from this chapter from appearing in certain public areas during specified hours.
Emergency functions include, without limitation:
(1)
Firefighting services;
(2)
Police services;
(3)
Emergency medical services;
(4)
Rescue;
(5)
Engineering;
(6)
Warning services;
(7)
Communications;
(8)
Defense from radiological, chemical, biological, and other special weapons to include weapons of mass destruction;
(9)
Evacuation of persons from stricken areas;
(10)
Emergency welfare services;
(11)
Consequence management functions to include victim services;
(12)
Emergency transportation;
(13)
Plant protection;
(14)
Temporary restoration of public utility services; and
(15)
Other functions related to civilian protection;
together with all other activities necessary or incidental to the preparation for and carrying out of the foregoing functions.
Emergency management means the preparation for the carrying out of all emergency functions other than functions for which military forces are primarily responsible to prevent, minimize, and repair injury and damage resulting from:
(1)
Emergencies;
(2)
Energy emergencies;
(3)
Disasters, or the imminent threat thereof, of manmade or natural origin caused by enemy attack;
(4)
Sabotage;
(5)
Acts of domestic or international terrorism;
(6)
Civil disturbance;
(7)
Fire;
(8)
Flood;
(9)
Earthquake;
(10)
Wind;
(11)
Storm;
(12)
Wave action;
(13)
Oil spill or other water contamination requiring emergency action to avert danger or damage;
(14)
Epidemic;
(15)
Air contamination;
(16)
Blight;
(17)
Drought;
(18)
Infestation;
(19)
Explosion;
(20)
Riot or other hostile action;
(21)
Radiological action; or
(22)
Other causes.
Essential officers and employees; nonessential employees means and refers to the constitutional officers, the law enforcement officers and dispatchers, emergency medical service providers, road department employees and code enforcement personnel. All other county personnel are nonessential employees.
Exempt individuals, with regard to a curfew, and unless otherwise specified in the resolution implementing the curfew, includes those individuals engaged in the provision of designated, essential services, such as fire, law enforcement, emergency medical services and hospital services, military services, and utility emergency repairs. The resolution may, at the discretion of the county board of commissioners, also exempt regular employees of local industries traveling to and from their jobs with appropriate identification, news media employees, and building and repair contractors and services, properly registered and performing activities related to construction, repair, renovation or improvement of buildings and other structures damaged during the disaster or emergency.
Fees means any fee or rate charged by the county for building permits, land disturbance permits, zoning applications, special land use permits, variances, temporary land use permits, and other fees relating to the reconstruction, repair and cleanup of areas impacted by the disaster or emergency. The term "fees" shall not include those fees collected by the county on behalf of the federal or state government or those fees charged by the county pursuant to a federal or state statute or regulation.
Overcharging means charging prices for goods, materials, services or housing which are substantially in excess of the customary charges or in applicable cases substantially in excess of the supplier's or provider's costs for such goods, materials, services or housing. The existence of overcharging shall be presumed from a substantial increase in the price at which the goods, materials, services or housing was offered in the usual course of business immediately prior to the onset of the emergency, but shall not include increases in costs to the supplier directly attributable to higher costs of materials, supplies and labor costs resulting from the emergency.
State of emergency, pursuant to O.C.G.A. § 38-3-3(5), means a condition declared by the governor when, in his judgment, the threat or actual occurrence of a disaster or emergency is of sufficient severity and magnitude as to warrant extraordinary efforts in preventing or alleviating the damage, loss, hardship or suffering threatened or caused thereby.
Subsequent recovery period means that period during which the disaster continues to cause disruptions in the disaster area, but shall not exceed six months after the emergency declaration has been terminated by the governor unless extended by official county action.
Temporary dwelling means any mobile or easily movable home, trailer, recreational vehicle, manufactured home, industrialized building or structure not otherwise permitted by the zoning ordinance in a particular zoning district.
(Res. No. 2008-07, § I, 2-21-2008)
State Law reference— Similar provisions, O.C.G.A. § 38-3-3.
Sec. 14-2. - Lumpkin County Emergency Services Uniform Patch.
Emergency services in its true definition encompasses the delivery of fire/rescue, emergency medical services, and emergency management. This design was developed by members of the Lumpkin County Emergency Services led by Lieutenant Ryan Estes. The power of patriotism and mission of service is embedded within the emblem.
The new patch contains the approved county seal with the traditional fire service Maltese Cross. Listed in each section of the cross are the services which the Lumpkin County Emergency Service represents. The dual American flags represent the community's patriotism and allows service members to wear the patches appropriately on each arm. Medical certification is placed as customized rocker on the right sleeve to fulfill state requirements, and specialty team designation rockers may be added.
Emergency Services ensures public safety by addressing different emergencies: Fire, Emergency Medicine, Rescue, and Disaster Management and Recovery (natural or manmade). By redeveloping the name of emergency services to encompass all of its functions, emergency services seeks to unify all branches within the Service, strengthen their position within the region and become compliant with National Fire Protection Association, National Incident Management System, and Georgia Emergency Management Agency standards.
(Res. No. 2011-28, exh. A, 4-19-2011)
Editor's note— Res. No. 2011-28, exh. A, adopted April 19, 2011, did not specifically amend the Code; hence, inclusion herein was at the discretion of the editor. See also the Code Comparative Table.
Secs. 14-3—14-20. - Reserved.
ARTICLE II. - EMERGENCY MANAGEMENT OFFICE

Sec. 14-21. - Established; appointment of director and coordinator.
The county has established, in coordination with cities and towns located within the county, the county emergency management office. The county board of commissioners has nominated, for appointment by the governor, a director and coordinator of emergency management for the county.
State Law reference— Authority for establishment of local emergency management organization, O.C.G.A. § 38-3-27; local director required for state financial assistance, O.C.G.A. § 38-3-27; authority for nomination of local director of emergency management, O.C.G.A. § 38-3-27.
Sec. 14-22. - Duties of emergency management director and coordinator.
The emergency management director and coordinator is charged with the following duties:
(1)
To represent the board of commissioners in matters pertaining to emergency management.
(2)
To assist county officials in organizing county departments for emergency operations.
(3)
To assist in developing a county emergency operations plan and to coordinate with the city officials of cities within the county with regard to integration of county and municipal plans.
(4)
To maintain the emergency management office and carry out the day-to-day administration of the county emergency management program, including the submission of required reports to the state emergency management agency.
(5)
To submit reports as required by governing officials in keeping with good management practices (e.g., financial, daily activity, etc.).
(6)
To procure, with the advice and consent of the board of commissioners, a facility to be used as the county emergency operations center.
(7)
To coordinate the activities of the county emergency operations center staff during periods of a declared emergency, and under the supervision of the county governing officials.
Sec. 14-23. - Assignment of emergency support functions.
(a)
The county emergency management office shall be established around existing county departments and agencies, and around city departments of the cities located within the county. Emergency support functions are assigned as follows:
EXPAND
No. Function Primary Assignment of County Offices and Personnel Support Assignments
1 Transportation School system Local transit, public works
2 Communications 911—County communications Sheriff's office, local police departments
3 Public works and engineering County public works department City public works departments
4 Firefighting County fire department City fire departments, state forestry service, mutual aid resources
5 Emergency management Emergency management agency Board of commissioners, city governments
6 Mass care Family and children's services, public health department School system, American Red Cross, emergency management agency
7 Resource support Board of commissioners City governments, emergency management agency
8 Public health and medical services Public health department Local hospitals, emergency management services
9 SAR Emergency management agency Fire departments, law enforcement agencies
10 Hazardous materials County fire department City fire departments, law enforcement agencies, emergency management agency
11 Agro and NR County extension service County animal control, public health department, law enforcement agencies
12 Energy County public works department City public works departments, board of commissioners, emergency management agency
13 Public safety Sheriff's office County coroner, city police departments
14 Recovery Emergency management agency Board of commissioners, city governments
15 External affairs Local public affairs department, board of commissioners, emergency management agency Board of commissioners, emergency management agency
  (b)
Heads of county departments listed in the table in subsection (a) of this section are responsible for developing the plan for their assigned emergency function. Such plans will be submitted through the emergency management director and coordinator to the board of commissioners for approval.
State Law reference— Local organizations for emergency management, O.C.G.A. § 38-3-27.
Sec. 14-24. - Adoption of emergency management plan.
The Georgia Emergency Management Agency requires that local government prepare and approve a local emergency operations plan (LEOP) to provide guidance and requirements for operations to minimize danger to citizens, mitigate damages and provide for the integration, implementation and control of joint intergovernmental efforts in response to disasters or similar emergencies. Said plans must be quadrenially reviewed and adopted by the county governing authority. The Board of Commissioners of Lumpkin County hereby approves and directs the implementation of the Lumpkin County 2016 Emergency Operations Plan attached hereto as Exhibit "A," and which by such reference fully incorporated herein.
(Res. No. 2006-06, 1-19-2006; Res. No. 2012-65, 12-18-2012; Res. No. 2017-10, 1-17-2017)
Editor's note— Exhibit "A," referenced above, is on file and available for inspection in the county offices.
Sec. 14-25. - Emergency powers.
In the event of manmade or natural disaster, actual enemy attack upon the United States, or any other emergency which may effect the lives and property of the cities and towns within the county, the chairperson of the board of commissioners, jointly with the mayors of the cities and towns within the county, or in their absence a legally appointed successor chairperson or mayor pro tem, may declare that a state of emergency exists and therefore shall have and may exercise for such period as such state of emergency exists or continues, the following emergency powers:
(1)
To enforce all rules, laws, and regulations relating to emergency management and to assume direct operational control over all emergency management resources.
(2)
To seize, take or temporarily use, or condemn any property for the protection of the public.
(3)
To sell, lend, give, or distribute all or any such property or supplies upon the inhabitants of the county: to maintain a strict accounting of property and supplies distributed and for funds received for such property or supplies.
(4)
To perform and exercise such other functions and duties, and take such emergency actions as may be necessary to promote and secure the safety, protection and well-being of the inhabitants of the county.
State Law reference— Rules, etc., authorized, O.C.G.A. § 38-3-28; powers of local governing bodies during state of emergency or disaster, O.C.G.A. § 38-3-54.
Sec. 14-26. - Continuity of county operations; essential and nonessential employees.
To promote civil stability and to provide basic services to the county in the case of emergencies or hazardous inclement weather it is essential that the county be able to maintain an adequate workforce. Toward that end, the following rules shall apply during any state of emergency declared by authorized state or county officials:
(1)
Essential employees shall be required to report to work at their regular shift unless called in early by their immediate supervisor, the board chairperson, or the chairperson's designee.
(2)
The board chairperson or his designee, in consultation as necessary with county department heads and county emergency management officials, shall decide whether to open county buildings and count work facilities. It shall be their responsibility to notify county officers if county buildings are to be closed. If county buildings are open, all employees in all offices are expected to report for their assigned shift. If county buildings are not opened for business at the regular opening hour, all employees are required to check in periodically for updates. Employees will not be paid for regular hours that county buildings and services are not in operation.
(3)
Any employee not able to report for their assigned shift may take annual leave for those hours. If an employee reports for work and is then sent home by the closing of his work building or site, the employee will be paid for the remainder of the day.
Sec. 14-27. - Volunteers.
All persons, other than officers and employees of the cities, towns, and county, performing emergency functions pursuant to this chapter, shall serve with or without compensation. While engaged in such emergency functions, duly assigned volunteers shall have the same immunities as county officers and employees.
State Law reference— Immunity of emergency management personnel, O.C.G.A. § 38-3-35; rights, privileges, and immunities of emergency aid workers, O.C.G.A. § 38-3-30.
Secs. 14-28—14-57. - Reserved.
ARTICLE III. - REGULATIONS DURING STATE OF EMERGENCY[2]

Footnotes:
--- (2) ---
State Law reference— Authority for local rules and regulations for emergency management, O.C.G.A. § 38-3-28.

Sec. 14-58. - Institution of curfew; compliance with curfew required.
(a)
Upon the declaration of a state of emergency by the governor or the county, by and through its designee, of the existence of an emergency or disaster, the county, its designee, or the emergency interim successor may adopt a resolution instituting a curfew when it is determined necessary to protect and safeguard the people and property of the county. All of the territory of the unincorporated county shall be subject to the terms of the curfew, unless otherwise specified in the resolution. The resolution instituting the curfew shall include the dates and hours that the curfew shall be in effect.
(b)
It shall be prohibited for any person, other than exempt individuals, to appear in public in the territory subject to the curfew, including, but not limited to, roads, highways, alleys, sidewalks, vacant lots, parks, public buildings or any other public places in all or a delineated part of the unincorporated county during the stated hours of the curfew.
Sec. 14-59. - Overcharging prohibited.
In order to preserve, protect or sustain the life, health, or safety of persons or their property, it shall be unlawful during the duration of a state of emergency or subsequent recovery period in which the county has been designated as a disaster area, for any person located or doing business in the county to overcharge for any goods, materials, services or housing sold within the unincorporated areas of the county.
Sec. 14-60. - Authority to hold meetings of governmental body at alternative locations.
Upon proclamation by the appropriate state official of an emergency or disaster of manmade or natural causes or enemy attack impending on or affecting the state or the United States, the affairs and business of the county may be conducted at places other than the regular or usual place thereof, within or outside of the geographical limits of the county, when it is not prudent, expedient or possible to conduct business at the regular location. When such meetings occur outside of the county, all actions taken by the board of commissioners shall be as valid and binding as if performed within the county. Such meetings may be called by the presiding officer or any two members of the governing body without regard to or compliance with time-consuming procedures and formalities otherwise required by law.
State Law reference— Operation of local governing authority during emergencies, O.C.G.A. § 38-3-54.
Sec. 14-61. - Authority to enter into public works contracts without notice or public bid.
Upon the declaration of a state of emergency by the governor, or upon the determination by the county, or its designee, of the existence of an emergency or disaster, the county governing authority, their designee or the emergency interim successor may contract for public works without letting such contract out to the lowest responsible bidder and without advertising and posting notification of such contract for four weeks; provided, however, that any public works contract entered into pursuant to this section shall be entered on the minutes of the county as soon as practical and the nature of the emergency described therein.
Sec. 14-62. - Authority to suspend enforcement of ordinances or parts of ordinances.
Upon the declaration of a state of emergency by the governor, or upon the determination by the county, or its designee, of the existence of an emergency or disaster, the board of commissioners, its designee or the emergency interim successor may temporarily suspend the enforcement of any county ordinances or any portion thereof, if:
(1)
The emergency or disaster is of such nature that immediate action outside the Code is required;
(2)
Suspension of enforcement is consistent with the protection of the public health, safety and welfare; and
(3)
Suspension of enforcement is consistent with any federal or state statutes or regulations.
Sec. 14-63. - Authority to suspend county fees.
Upon the declaration of a state of emergency by the governor, or upon the determination by the county or its designee, of the existence of an emergency or disaster, the board of commissioners, its designee or the emergency interim successor may temporarily reduce or suspend any permit fees, application fees or other rate structures as necessary to encourage the rebuilding of the area impacted by the disaster or emergency.
Sec. 14-64. - Authority to authorize temporary dwellings without regard to zoning restrictions.
(a)
Upon the declaration of a state of emergency by the governor, or upon the determination by the county or its designee, of the existence of an emergency or disaster, the board of commissioners, their designee or the emergency interim successor may issue temporary mobile home, trailer, recreational vehicle or other temporary dwelling structures or parks in any zoning district while the primary dwelling is being repaired provided that such temporary dwellings or parks are designed by an engineer and the plans are approved by the health department and tax assessor's office.
(b)
The temporary permit shall not exceed six months in duration. In the case of continuing hardship and at the discretion of the board of commissioners or its designee, the permit may be extended for a period for an additional six months. Upon expiration of the temporary permit or an extension, the temporary dwelling shall be removed.
Secs. 14-65—14-86. - Reserved.
ARTICLE IV. - EMERGENCY 911 TELEPHONE SYSTEM

Sec. 14-87. - Implementation of 911 surcharge.
There shall be implemented in the county an enhanced emergency telephone number "911" system to receive and direct telephone calls of an emergency nature, the costs of which shall be funded, to the extent possible, by the imposition of a monthly charge of $1.50 per wireless connection and exchange access line, as provided by O.C.G.A. § 46-5-122 et seq.
(Ord. No. 91-4, 7-3-1991; Res. No. 93-3, 7-7-1993; Res. No. 01-26, 5-17-2001; Res. No. 2009-63, 10-14-2009)
Sec. 14-88. - Prepaid wireless 911 charge.
(a)
911 charge on prepaid wireless transactions. In accordance with O.C.G.A. § 46-5-134.2, there is hereby imposed a prepaid wireless 911 charge as defined by O.C.G.A. § 46-5-134.2(a)(4) upon every prepaid wireless retail transaction occurring within the jurisdiction of the public service answering point in the amount of $0.75.
(b)
Collection of 911 charge on prepaid wireless transactions. Prepaid wireless 911 charges collected by sellers shall be remitted to the commissioner of the department of revenue at the times and in the manner provided by Chapter 8 of Title 48 of the Official Code of Georgia Annotated with respect to the sales and use tax imposed on prepaid wireless calling service.
(c)
Administrative provisions. The clerk of the county is hereby directed to file with the State Revenue Commissioner a certified copy of this section and amendments thereto, in accordance with O.C.G.A. § 46-5-134.2(j)(1), within ten days of enactment of this section.
(d)
Depositing of funds; use of funds. In accordance with O.C.G.A. § 46-5-134.2(j)(5), funds received by this county from charges imposed by this section shall be deposited in the emergency telephone system fund maintained by this county pursuant to O.C.G.A. § 46-5-134 and kept separate from general revenue of the jurisdiction; all such funds shall be used exclusively for the purposes authorized by O.C.G.A. § 46-5-134(f).
(Res. No. 2011-65, §§ 1—4, 10-18-2011, eff. 1-1-2012)
Editor's note— Res. No. 2011-65, §§ 1—4, adopted Oct. 18, 2011, effective Jan. 1, 2012, added provisions that were not specifically amendatory. At the editor's discretion, said provisions were included as § 14-88.
Secs. 14-89—14-144. - Reserved.
ARTICLE V. - EMERGENCY COST RECOVERY

Sec. 14-145. - Purpose and intent.
The county provides certain emergency services within the county through its emergency management agency that provides fire protection and emergency medical services, to include both trauma and nontrauma events. The county desires to provide for the recovery of expenses and for defraying certain costs for providing such services.
(Res. No. 2008-45, § 1, 9-25-2008)
Sec. 14-146. - Cost to be recovered.
Any costs recovered shall be in accordance with the county fee schedule. Costs to be recovered shall include emergency rescue tools, equipment and materials, hazardous materials abatement tools and material, environmental protection tools and materials, personnel hours, costs of equipment operations, and costs of equipment and materials expended. Cost to be recovered may include any special training and preparation required to be licensed, certificated and approved to control, contain, and ameliorate emergency conditions as outlined herein.
(Res. No. 2008-45, § 2, 9-25-2008)
Sec. 14-147. - Persons unable to pay; internal policy.
The county recognizes that in some cases the expense of pursuing such cost recovery against indigents or other persons not capable of providing such reimbursement and defrayal of costs would exceed the benefits of any recovery. The EMA director shall provide by internal policy, with the consent and approval of the board of commissioners for those categories of individuals to be subject to a rebuttable presumption of nonpayment.
(Res. No. 2008-45, § 3, 9-25-2008)
Sec. 14-148. - Authority to provide services by contract.
The county further recognizes that contracting for third-party billing and collection of such costs and expenses may minimize the personnel requirements of such efforts and result in greater efficiency. The board of commissioners shall from time to time determine if such third-party (contract) billing and collection is cost effective, and shall enter into such contracts on such terms and conditions as they deem appropriate, whether by bidding, or, if fewer than five bids are received or fewer than five active firms capable of doing such work are identified, by negotiation with available parties.
(Res. No. 2008-45, § 4, 9-25-2008)
