Chapter 32 - OFFENSES AND MISCELLANEOUS PROVISIONS[1]

Footnotes:
--- (1) ---
State Law reference— Municipal home rule, Ga. Const. art. IX, § II, O.C.G.A. § 36-35-1 et seq.; crimes generally, O.C.G.A. § 16-1-1 et seq.; maximum penalties that may be imposed by municipalities, O.C.G.A. §§ 36-32-1, 36-32-5, 36-35-6; additional penalties and bond in certain criminal and traffic cases, O.C.G.A. § 15-21-73; authority to impose community service as punishment, O.C.G.A. § 17-10-1; alternative sentences by municipal courts, O.C.G.A. § 36-32-5; powers of municipal court judges in criminal cases, O.C.G.A. § 36-32-3; jurisdiction of municipal court, O.C.G.A. § 36-32-6 et seq.

Sec. 32-1. - Disorderly conduct.
Any person who shall do or engage in any of the following in the unincorporated area of the county shall be guilty of disorderly conduct:
(1)
Any person who shall act in a violent or tumultuous manner toward another, whereby any person is placed in danger of safety of his life, limb or health.
(2)
Any person who shall act in a violent or tumultuous manner toward another, whereby public property or property of any other person is placed in danger of being destroyed or damaged.
(3)
Any person who shall endanger lawful pursuits of another by acts of violence or threats of bodily harm.
(4)
Any person who shall cause, provoke or engage in any fight, brawl or riotous conduct so as to endanger the life, limb, health or property of another or public property.
(5)
Any person who shall assemble or congregate with another or others and cause, provoke or engage in any fight or brawl.
(6)
Any person who shall collect in groups or in crowds and engage in unlawful activities.
(7)
Any person who shall assemble or congregate with another or others and engage or attempt to engage in gaming.
(8)
Any person who shall frequent any public place and obtain money from another by an illegal or fraudulent scheme, trick, artifice or device, or attempt to do so.
(9)
Any person who assembles with another or others and engages in any fraudulent scheme, device or trick to obtain any valuable thing in any place or from any person, or attempts to do so.
(10)
Any person who utters, in a public place or any place open to the public, any obscene words or epithets.
(11)
Any person who frequents any place where gaming or illegal sale or possession of alcoholic beverages or narcotics or dangerous drugs is practiced, allowed or tolerated.
(12)
Any person who shall use fighting words directed towards any person who becomes outraged and thus creates turmoil.
(13)
Any person who shall assemble or congregate with another and do bodily harm to another.
(14)
Any person who shall, by acts of violence, interfere with another's pursuit of a lawful occupation.
(15)
Any person who shall congregate with another in or on any public way so as to halt the flow of vehicular or pedestrian traffic and refuses to clear such public way when ordered to do so by a peace officer or other person having authority.
(16)
Any person who damages, baffles or disturbs public property or the property of another so as to create a hazardous, unhealthy or physically offensive condition.
(Res. No. 91-1, § 1, 9-30-1991)
State Law reference— Similar provisions, O.C.G.A. § 16-11-39.
Sec. 32-2. - Defacing property; graffiti.
No person shall post or put up, or allow to remain posted or put up any writing or picture on any public or private building, wall, fence, sign, monument, post, sidewalk or pavement, in any of the roads or public places of the county except with permission of the property owner or his agent.
Sec. 32-3. - Consumption or public possession of alcoholic beverages on county-owned or leased property prohibited.
Consumption or public possession of alcoholic beverages on Lumpkin County owned or leased property shall be disorderly conduct.
(1)
This section shall apply to all Lumpkin County property, to include recreation areas, park areas, and trails.
(2)
Possession shall be considered a violation of this section.
(3)
Consumption shall be considered a violation of this section.
(4)
Persons who collect in groups and crowds for the purpose of possession or consumption of alcohol on property specified herein shall be considered as being in violation of this section.
(5)
Violations of this section may be prosecuted as provided in O.C.G.A. § 15-10-60, such that any fine shall not exceed $1,000.00 for any single event, or six months imprisonment, or both.
(6)
Each act shall constitute a separate violation.
(Res. No. 2012-44, exh. A, 8-21-2012)
Cross reference— Alcoholic beverages, ch. 4; parks and recreation, ch. 34.
Sec. 32-4. - Use of sound amplifying equipment.
(a)
Restrictions on use of sound amplifying equipment.
1.
No person shall use or cause to be used any sound amplifying device or equipment at any place outdoors in the unincorporated areas of Lumpkin County, except in accordance with subsection 2. Sound-amplifying device or equipment means any machine or device for the amplification of the human voice, music, or any other sound. Sound-amplifying equipment shall not include standard automobile radios when used and heard only by the occupants of the vehicle in which the automobile radio is installed. Sound-amplifying equipment, as used in this article, shall not include warning devices or authorized emergency vehicles or horns or other warning devices on any vehicle used only for traffic safety purposes.
2.
Sound amplifying devices and equipment:
a.
Shall be operated in a manner that directs sound, to the extent feasible, toward open unoccupied space and away from any residential area. For the purpose of this article, residential area means any real property that contains a structure or building in which one or more persons reside.
b.
Shall not be used outdoors between the hours of 10:00 p.m. and 6:00 a.m. Sunday through Thursday and not between the hours of 11:00 p.m. and 6:00 a.m. Friday and Saturday except when other time limitations have been approved as a condition of a Special Land Use Approval under Chapter 27 of the Lumpkin County Code of Ordinances, or otherwise approved by the Board of Commissioners for an annual onetime event under a special event permit.
(b)
Exceptions. This section shall not be construed to apply to the use of sound amplifying equipment or devices under the following circumstances:
1.
Sound amplification equipment or devices used on privately owned property, where the sound produced does not carry beyond the real property line.
2.
Radios, stereo systems, televisions and other, similar, audio equipment, when the volume does not exceed the volume of normal conversational speech.
3.
Sound amplification equipment or devices used on emergency vehicles or by government employees in connection with any activity undertaken for the protection of the public health or safety.
4.
Sound amplification equipment or devices used as a part of an organized school related program, activity, event or parade or other public programs, activities, or events authorized by the Board of Commissioners of Lumpkin County.
5.
The reasonable use of amplifiers or loudspeakers in the course of public addresses which are noncommercial.
(c)
Violations. This section shall be enforced by the Lumpkin County Sheriff's Office. Any person who uses or causes to be used any sound amplifying equipment or device in violation of the provisions of this section shall be guilty of a misdemeanor punishable by a fine of up to $1,000.00 or imprisonment for 60 days or both. The Lumpkin County Sheriff's Office shall have the discretion to issue a warning in lieu of a citation for the first offense. Each incident shall be a separate violation such that multiple violations may occur on the same date. If a person is warned or cited for a violation of this section and corrects the violation but then later, on the same date, uses or causes to be used any sound amplifying equipment or device in violation of the provisions of this section, such person may be cited for a separate violation of this section.
(Res. No. 2021-57, (Exh. A), 10-19-2021)
