ARTICLE IV. - DEPARTMENTS
DIVISION 1. - GENERALLY

Sec. 2-210. - Authority regarding organization of county government.
The internal organization of the county government shall be established and altered by the board of commissioners. Existing departments may be abolished and their functions transferred to other departments, additional departments may be created, and any two or more departments may be consolidated.
Sec. 2-211. - Duties and responsibilities of department heads.
All department heads shall:
(1)
Be immediately responsible to the county manager for the effective administration of their respective departments and all activities assigned thereto.
(2)
Keep informed as to the latest practices in their particular field and initiate with the approval of the county manager, such new practices as appear to be of benefit to the county and to the public;
(3)
Submit reports quarterly or as otherwise required by the county manager of the activities of their respective departments to the county manager;
(4)
Establish and maintain a system of filing and indexing records and reports in sufficient detail to furnish all information necessary for property control of departmental activities and to form a basis for the periodic reports to the county manager;
(5)
Prepare budgets annually, or as otherwise directed, as required by the county manager;
(6)
Have power, when authorized by the county manager, to appoint and remove, subject to personnel regulations, all subordinate employees;
(7)
Be responsible for the proper maintenance of all county property and equipment used in their respective departments; and
(8)
Be responsible for ensuring the preservation and accurate supplementation of any copy of this Code assigned to the department supervised by the department head.
Sec. 2-212. - Departmental cooperation.
Each department shall cooperate with every other department and shall furnish, upon the direction of the board of commissioners, any other department such service, labor and materials as may be requisitioned by the head of the department.
Secs. 2-213—2-232. - Reserved.
DIVISION 2. - APPEAL OF DEPARTMENT ACTION

Sec. 2-233. - Procedure.
(a)
In the event a decision of any department of the county is appealed to the board of commissioners for review, the administrative procedures set out in these procedures shall provide guidance on how such an appeal shall be conducted.
(b)
To the extent that the documentation of the department from which the appeal arises has specific guidance for the filing and conduct of an appeal, those instructions will be followed unless otherwise specifically provided. In any case where the time provided for in the specific guidance is greater or lesser than the time provided herein, the greater time will prevail.
(c)
In the absence of a specific provision, the following shall control:
(1)
All appeals shall be filed initially with the department which issued the decision from which the appeal is taken.
a.
No appeal shall be accepted except an appeal in writing, signed by the person or entity appealing (the appellant).
1.
An appeal by other than a natural person (corporation, limited liability company, etc.) must be signed by an officer or other person authorized to represent the entity.
2.
An entity without legal status (for example, an informal business or an individual "doing business as" a "business name") must be filed in the name of the individual.
3.
No other person may sign for a person or entity filing an appeal unless the person signing is duly authorized in writing to represent the person or entity during the appeal. Any, each and every act by such authorized person shall be binding on the person or entity represented. If, in the sole discretion of the county manager it is determined that the agent or representative should be a designated "attorney in fact" acting under a written power of attorney, the county manager shall provide an appropriate form, the proper execution of which shall become a necessary part of the appeal.
b.
No appeal shall be accepted unless all fees due and payable have been paid.
c.
Each appeal shall be filed in ten copies, with each copy a compete set of all documents and exhibits to be considered. Any written statement or other document shall also be filed in ten copies. Any appeal which does not provide ten copies of each document, and each exhibit, photographs, books or other attachment, shall be refused. Any material added to the appeal after filing must also be provided in ten copies as set out below. No material shall be permitted to be entered during the appeal unless the specified copies have been provided in advance as required.
(2)
Within ten days following the date when the complete appeal has been filed, with all documents and exhibits in proper numbers of copies, the appeal shall be sent to the county manager for review. The department shall include with the appeal all background information, exhibits, and the decision of the department in ten copies.
(3)
Within ten days of receiving an appeal, the county manager shall either return the appeal to the department if any element of the appeal is not provided as set out in these procedures, or forward the appeal to the members of the board of commissioners for consideration. The county manager shall at that time poll the board members to determine a time and date certain at which the appeal shall be heard.
(4)
Within five days of providing the appeal to the members of the board, the county manager will set the time and date of the appeal, and will give notice to the department, the appellant, all members of the board of commissioners, and such additional parties at the county manager deems appropriate.
(5)
Appeals shall be set normally on a date and at a time not in conflict with other county business, and shall be the sole activity on the agenda; multiple appeals may be scheduled consecutively if required.
a.
Appeals, which have been set for a date and time, may be reset at the sole discretion of the county manager if required by the exigencies of the governing authority.
b.
An appellant may request in writing, stating the basis for the request, that a scheduled appeal be reset. Granting such request shall be in the sole discretion of the county manager, and shall only be granted for good cause shown.
(6)
An appeal may be amended or supplemented by the Appellant at any time prior to the hearing date.
a.
For any appeal or amendment the county manager, in his sole discretion, may reset the date of the hearing to provide adequate time for review of the amendment or the supplemental information.
b.
Any amendment or supplementation within ten or fewer days of the scheduled appeal shall automatically require that the hearing date be reset to a date more than ten days in the future.
c.
Any amendment or supplement, and all exhibits or additional material or information filed therewith, shall be filed in ten copies.
(7)
Upon the call of the appeal by the presiding officer of the board, appellant shall have 30 minutes to present the appeal. Members of the board shall ask questions as they deem appropriate. At the end of 30 minutes, appellant will cease speaking. The department from which the appeal arose shall have 15 minutes to present its rebuttal. At the end of 15 minutes the department will cease speaking.
(8)
After both appellant and the department have been heard, the presiding officer shall call for a motion to approve the appeal, to deny the appeal, or to request additional information. In circumstances requiring additional consideration, the board may also move for additional consideration and set a date and time certain to reconvene to consider the matter and render a decision.
(9)
When sitting for the purpose of considering an appeal, no appeal shall be heard unless at least three members are present at all times during the appeal hearing and decision. All members hearing an appeal must be present for the consideration of the motion on the appeal. Members not present at all times during the appeal may not vote on the motion on the appeal.
(10)
Any decision upon motion to deny the appeal shall be final.
a.
No decision to deny an appeal shall be subject to reconsideration by the board except by unanimous vote of the board of commissioners for the sole purpose of preventing manifest injustice.
b.
In the event a denial is reconsidered, the board may affirm its denial, or structure such solution, as it deems appropriate. Its decision on the matter shall be final and not subject to further review.
(Res. No. 2006-30, 6-15-2006)
Secs. 2-234—2-259. - Reserved.
