PART I - THE CHARTER[1]
Footnotes:
--- (1) ---
Editor's note— Printed herein is the city's Charter as set forth in 1980 Ga. Laws, page 3281. Amendments to the act are indicated by parenthetical history notes following amended provisions. The absence of a history note indicates that the provision remains unchanged from the original act. Obvious misspellings have been corrected without notation. For stylistic purposes, a uniform system of headings, catchlines and citations to state statutes has been used. Additions made for clarity are indicated by brackets.
State Law reference— Powers of municipal corporations generally, O.C.G.A. § 36-34-1 et seq.; powers relating to administration of municipal government generally, O.C.G.A. § 36-34-2; The Municipal Home Rule Act of 1965, O.C.G.A. § 36-35-1 et seq.; home rule for municipalities, Ga. Const. art. IX, § II, ¶ II.

ARTICLE I. - CREATION, CORPORATION, POWERS

Sec. 1.01. - City of Holly Springs.
This city and the inhabitants thereof are hereby constituted and declared a body politic and corporate under the name and style of Holly Springs, Georgia, and by that name shall have perpetual succession.
Sec. 1.02. - Corporate boundaries.
(a)
The boundaries of this city shall be those existing on the effective date of the adoption of this charter with such alterations as may be made from time to time in the manner provided by general state law. The boundaries of this city at all times shall be shown on a map, a written description or any combination thereof, to be retained permanently in the office of the clerk and to be designated, as the case may be: "Official Map (or Description) of the Corporate Limits of the City of Holly Springs, Georgia." Photographic, typed, or other copies of such map or description certified by the clerk shall be admitted as evidence in all courts and shall have the same force and effect as with the original map or description.
(b)
The city council may provide for the redrawing of any such map by ordinance to reflect lawful changes in the corporate boundaries. A redrawn map shall supersede for all purposes the earlier map or maps which it is designated to replace.
(c)
Said map at time of Charter amendment is hereby attached and noted as Exhibit A "The Official Map of the Corporate Limits of the City of Holly Springs, Georgia."
(1980 Ga. Laws, page 3281; 1987 Ga. Laws, page 4964; Ord. No. 2013-01, § 1, 1-24-13, eff. 2-21-13 )
Sec. 1.03. - Powers and construction.
(a)
This city shall have all powers possible for a city to have under the present or future Constitution and laws of this state as fully and completely as though they were specifically enumerated in this charter.
(b)
The powers of this city shall be construed liberally in favor of the city. The specific mention or failure to mention particular powers shall not be construed as limiting in any way the powers of this city.
Sec. 1.04. - Examples of power[s].
(a)
The corporate powers of this city may include but are not limited to the following:
(1)
To levy and to provide for the assessment, valuation, revaluation, and collection of taxes on all property subject to taxation.
(2)
To levy and collect such other taxes as may be allowed now or in the future by state law.
(3)
To levy and to provide for the collection of license fees and taxes on privileges, occupations, businesses, trades, and professions; to license and regulate the same; to provide for the manner and method of payment of such licenses and taxes; and to revoke such licenses after due process for failure to pay any city taxes or fees.
(4)
To make appropriations for the support of the government of the city; to authorize the expenditure of money for any purposes authorized by this charter and for any purpose for which a municipality is authorized by the laws of the State of Georgia and to provide for the payment of expenses of the city.
(5)
To appropriate and borrow money for the payment of debts of the city and to issue bonds for the purpose of raising revenue to carry out any project, program, or venture authorized by this charter or the laws of the State of Georgia.
(6)
To acquire, dispose of, and hold in trust or otherwise, any real, personal, or mixed property, in fee simple or lesser interest, inside or outside the corporate limits of the city.
(7)
To accept or refuse gifts, donations, bequests, or grants from any source for any purpose related to the powers and duties of the city and the general welfare of its citizens, on such terms and conditions as the donor or grantor may impose.
(8)
To condemn property, inside or outside the corporate limits of the city for present or future use, and for any corporate purpose deemed necessary by the governing authority, utilizing procedures authorized by state law.
(9)
To acquire, lease, construct, operate, maintain, sell, and dispose of public utilities, including but not limited to a system of waterworks, sewers and drains, sewage disposal, gas works, electric light plants, transportation facilities, public airports, cable television, and any other public utility; to fix the taxes, charges, rates, fares, fees, assessments, regulations, and penalties and withdrawal of service for refusal or failure to pay same and the manner in which such remedies shall be enforced.
(10)
To grant franchises or make contracts for public utilities and public services; to prescribe the rates, fares, regulations, standards, and conditions applicable to the service to be provided by the franchise grantee or contractor, insofar as not in conflict with valid regulations by the Public Service Commission.
(11)
To lay out, open, extend, widen, narrow, establish, or change the grade of, abandon, or close, construct, pave, curb, gutter, adorn with shade trees, otherwise improve, maintain, repair, clean, prevent erosion of, and to light roads, alleys, and walkways within the corporate limits of the city, and to grant franchises and rights-of-way throughout the streets and roads, and over the bridges and viaducts, for the use of public utilities.
(12)
To provide for the acquisition, construction, building, operation, and maintenance of public ways, parks, and playgrounds, recreational facilities, cemeteries, markets and market houses, public buildings, libraries, public housing, airports, hospitals, terminals, docks, parking facilities, or charitable, cultural, educational, recreational, conservation, sport, curative, corrective, detention, penal, and medical institutions, agencies and facilities; and any other public improvements, inside or outside the corporate limits of the city; and to regulate the use thereof and, for such purposes, property may be acquired by condemnation as permitted under state law.
(13)
To require real estate owners to repair and maintain in a safe condition the sidewalks adjoining their lots or lands; and to enact ordinances establishing the terms and conditions under which such repairs and maintenance shall be effected, including the penalties to be imposed for failure to do so.
(14)
To regulate the erection and construction of buildings and all other structures; to adopt building, housing, plumbing, electrical, gas, and heating and air conditioning codes and to regulate all housing, building, and building trades; to license the construction and erection of buildings and all other structures.
(15)
To provide such comprehensive city planning for development by zoning, subdivision regulation and the like as the city council deems necessary and reasonable to ensure a safe, healthy, and aesthetically pleasing community.
(16)
To provide for the prevention and punishment of drunkenness, riots, and public disturbances.
(17)
To regulate or prohibit junk dealers and pawnshops; the manufacture, sale, or transportation of intoxicating liquors; the use of firearms; to regulate the transportation, storage, and use of combustible, explosive, and flammable materials; the use of lighting and heating equipment, and any other business or situation which may be dangerous to persons or property; to regulate and control the conduct of peddlers, and itinerant trades, theatrical performances, exhibitions, shows of any kind whatsoever, by taxation or otherwise; to license, tax, regulate, or prohibit professional fortune telling, palmistry, adult bookstores, and massage parlors.
(18)
To prohibit or regulate and control the erection, removal, and maintenance of signs, billboards, trees, shrubs, fences, buildings, and any and all other structures or obstructions upon or adjacent to the rights-of-way of streets and roads or within view thereof, within or abutting the corporate limits of the city and to prescribe penalties and punishment for violation of such ordinances.
(19)
To prescribe standards of health and sanitation and to provide for the enforcement of such standards.
(20)
To regulate the emission of smoke or other exhaust which pollutes the air and to prevent the pollution of natural streams which flow within the corporate limits of the city.
(21)
To fix and establish fire limits and from time to time to extend, enlarge or restrict same; to prescribe fire safety regulations not inconsistent with general law, relating to both fire prevention and detection and to firefighting, and to prescribe penalties and punishment for violation thereof.
(22)
To provide for the destruction and removal of any building or other structure which is or may become dangerous or detrimental to the public.
(23)
To provide for the collection and disposal of garbage, rubbish, and refuse, and to regulate the collection and disposal of garbage, rubbish, and refuse by others; and to provide for the separate collection of glass, tin, aluminum, cardboard, paper, and other recyclable materials and to provide for the sale of such items.
(24)
To levy, fix, assess, and collect a garbage, refuse, and trash collection and disposal and other sanitary service charge, tax or fee for such services as may be necessary in the operation of the city from all individuals, firms, and corporations residing in or doing business therein benefiting from such services; to enforce the payment of such charges, taxes, or fees; and to provide for the manner and method of collecting such service charges.
(25)
To levy a fee, charge, or sewer tax as necessary to assure the acquiring, constructing, equipping, operating, maintaining, and extending of a sewage disposal plant and sewerage system, and to levy on the users of sewers and the sewerage system a sewer service charge fee or sewer tax for the use of the sewers; and to provide for the manner and method of collecting such service charges and for enforcing payment of same; to charge, impose and collect a sewer connection fee or fees, and to change the same from time to time, and to levy such fees on the users connecting with the sewerage system.
(26)
To define a nuisance and provide for its abatement whether on public or private property.
(27)
To provide for the preservation and protection of property and equipment of the city and the administration and use of same by the public, and to prescribe penalties and punishment for violations thereof.
(28)
To provide that persons given jail sentences in the city's court shall work out such sentences in any public works or on the streets, roads, drains, and squares in the city; or to provide for commitment of such persons to any county work camp or jail by agreement with the appropriate county officials.
(29)
To regulate and license or prohibit the keeping or running at large of animals and fowl and to provide for the impoundment of same, if in violation of any ordinance or lawful order; also to provide for their disposition by sale, gift, or humane destruction, when not redeemed as provided by ordinance; to provide punishment for violation of [any] ordinance enacted hereunder.
(30)
To regulate the operation of motor vehicles and exercise control over all traffic, including parking, upon or across the streets, roads, alleys, and walkways of the city.
(31)
To regulate and license vehicles operated for hire in the city; to limit the number of such vehicles; to require the operators thereof to be licensed; to require public liability insurance on such vehicles in the amounts to be prescribed by ordinance; and to regulate and rent parking spaces in public ways for the use of such vehicles.
(32)
To provide and maintain a system of pensions and retirement for officers and employees of the city.
(33)
To levy and provide for the collection of special assessments to cover the costs for any public improvements.
(34)
To enter into contracts and agreements with other governmental entities and with private persons, firms, and corporations providing for services to be made therefor.
(35)
To create, alter, or abolish departments, boards, offices, commissions, and agencies of the city, and to confer upon such agencies the necessary and appropriate authority for carrying out all the powers conferred upon or delegated to same.
(36)
To provide penalties for violations of any ordinance adopted pursuant to the authority of this charter and the laws of the State of Georgia.
(37)
To exercise the power of arrest through duly appointed police officers and to organize and operate a firefighting agency.
(38)
To establish procedures for determining and proclaiming that an emergency situation exists within or without the city, and to make and carry out all reasonable provisions deemed necessary to deal with or meet such an emergency for the protection, safety, health, or well-being of the citizens of the city.
(39)
To organize and operate an urban redevelopment program.
(40)
To organize and operate such public transportation systems as are deemed beneficial.
(41)
To define, regulate, and prohibit any act, practice, conduct, or use of property which is detrimental to health, sanitation, cleanliness, welfare, and safety of the inhabitants of the city and to provide for the enforcement of such standards.
(42)
To exercise and enjoy all other powers, functions, rights, privileges, and immunities necessary or desirable to promote or protect the safety, health, peace, security, good order, comfort, convenience, or general welfare of the city and its inhabitants; and to exercise all implied powers necessary to carry into execution all powers granted in this charter as fully and completely as if such powers were fully stated herein; and to exercise all powers now or in the future authorized to be exercised by other municipal governments under other laws of the State of Georgia.
(b)
No listing of particular powers in this charter shall be held to be exclusive of others, nor restrictive of general words and phrases granting powers; but shall be held to be in addition to such powers unless expressly prohibited to municipalities under the Constitution or applicable laws of the State of Georgia.
( Ord. No. 2013-01, §§ 2—6, 1-24-13, eff. 2-21-13 ; Ord. No. 22-2017, § 1, 10-16-17 )
Sec. 1.05. - Exercise of powers.
All powers, functions, rights, privileges, and immunities of the city, its officers, agencies, or employees shall be carried into execution as provided by this charter. If this charter makes no provision, such shall be carried into execution as provided by ordinance or as provided by pertinent laws of the State of Georgia.
ARTICLE II. - GOVERNMENT STRUCTURE[2]

Footnotes:
--- (2) ---
Code reference—City council, § 2-36 et seq.

Sec. 2.01. - City council creation; composition; number; election.
Except as otherwise specifically provided in this charter, the legislative authority of the government of this city shall be vested in a city council to be composed of a mayor and five (5) councilmembers. The mayor and councilmembers shall be elected in the manner provided by article V of this charter.
Sec. 2.02. - City council terms and qualifications for office.
(a)
The members of the city council shall serve for terms of four years and until their respective successors are elected and qualified. No person shall be eligible to serve as mayor or councilmember unless he or she has been a resident of the city for one year prior to the date of the election of mayor and councilmembers and has been a resident of the ward which he or she represents for a period of one year previous to the election in which he or she is a candidate. Each shall continue to reside in such ward during such member's period of service and continue to be registered and eligible to vote in municipal elections of the city.
(2001 Ga. Laws, page 3679; H.B. 1137 , § 1, 3-20-14)
Sec. 2.03. - Vacancy; filling of vacancies.
(a)
The office of mayor or councilmember shall become vacant upon the incumbent's death, resignation, forfeiture of office, or removal from office in any manner authorized by this charter or the general laws of the State of Georgia.
(b)
A vacancy in the office of mayor or councilmember shall be filled for the remainder of the unexpired term, if any, as provided for in article V.
Sec. 2.04. - Compensation and expenses.
The mayor and councilmembers shall receive compensation for their services in an amount set by ordinance. The mayor and councilmembers shall be entitled to receive their actual and necessary expenses incurred in the performance of their duties of office.
Sec. 2.05. - Prohibitions.
(a)
Except as authorized by law, no member of the council shall hold any other elective city office of elective city employment during the term for which he was elected.
(b)
Neither the mayor nor any councilmember shall vote upon any question in which he is personally interested.
Sec. 2.06. - Inquiries and investigations.
The council may make inquiries and investigations into the affairs of the city and the conduct of any department, office, or agency thereof and for this purpose may subpoena witnesses, administer oaths, take testimony, and require the production of evidence. Any person who fails or refuses to obey a lawful order issued in the exercise of these powers by the council shall be punished as provided by ordinance.
Sec. 2.07. - General power and authority of the council.
(a)
Except as otherwise provided by law or by this charter, the council shall be vested with all the powers of government of the City of Holly Springs as provided by article I.
(b)
In addition to all other powers conferred upon it by law, the council shall have the authority to adopt and provide for the execution of such ordinances, resolutions, rules and regulations, not inconsistent with this charter, the Constitution and the laws of the State of Georgia, which it shall deem necessary, expedient, or helpful for the peace, good order, protection of life and property, health, welfare, sanitation, comfort, convenience, prosperity or well-being of the inhabitants of the City of Holly Springs and may enforce such ordinance by imposing penalties for violation thereof.
(c)
The council may by ordinance change, create, alter, abolish, or consolidate offices, agencies, and departments of the city and may assign additional functions to any of the offices, agencies, and departments expressly provided for by this charter.
Sec. 2.08. - Chief executive officer.
The mayor shall be the chief executive of the City of Holly Springs. He shall possess, have, and exercise all of the executive and administrative powers granted to the city under the Constitution and laws of the State of Georgia and all the executive and administrative powers granted to him in this charter.
Sec. 2.09. - Duties of mayor.
As the chief executive officer of the City of Holly Springs, the mayor shall:
(1)
Preside at all meetings of the city council;
(2)
Be the official head of the city for the service of process and for ceremonial purposes;
(3)
Have power to administer oaths and to take affidavits;
(4)
Sign all written contracts entered into by the council on behalf of the city and all other contracts and instruments executed by the city which by law are required to be in writing;
(5)
See that all laws and ordinances of the city are faithfully executed;
(6)
Exercise supervision over all executive and administrative work of the city and provide for the coordination of administrative activities;
(7)
Recommend to the council such measures relative to the affairs of the city, improvement of the government, and promotion of the welfare of its inhabitants as he may deem expedient;
(8)
Call special meetings of the council as provided for in section 2.12 of this charter;
(9)
Examine and audit all accounts of the city before payment;
(10)
Require any department or agency of the city to submit written reports in connection with the affairs thereof whenever he deems it expedient;
(11)
Suspend any appointed city employee or officer for cause, said suspension to be in effect until the next meeting of the council wherein the question of the employee's or officer's capability shall be decided by the council;
(12)
Prepare and submit to the city council a recommended annual operating budget and recommended capital budget;
(13)
Break a tie vote of the councilmembers;
(14)
Perform other duties as may be required by law, this charter, or ordinance.
Sec. 2.10. - Mayor pro tem.
During the absence or disability of the mayor for any cause, the mayor pro tem or, in his absence or disability for any cause, one of the councilmembers chosen by the council shall be clothed with all the rights and privileges of the mayor so long as such absence or disability shall continue.
Sec. 2.11. - Organization meeting.
The city council shall meet for organization on the regular council meeting date. The meeting shall be called to order by the mayor. The city clerk shall administer the oath of office to the newly elected member as follows:
"I do solemnly swear (or affirm) that I will faithfully perform the duties of mayor/councilman of this city and that I will support and defend the charter and ordinances thereof as well as the Constitution and laws of the State of Georgia and of the United States of America."
( Ord. No. 2013-01, § 7, 1-24-13, eff. 2-21-13 )
Sec. 2.12. - Regular and special meetings.
(a)
The city council shall hold regular meetings at such times and places as prescribed by ordinance.
(b)
Special meetings of the council may be held on call of the mayor or, in his absence, the mayor pro tem. Notice of such special meetings shall be served on all other members personally, or electronically, or by telephone personally, or shall be left at their residences in advance of the meeting. Such notice shall not be required if the mayor and all councilmembers are present when the special meeting is called. Notice of any special meeting may be waived in writing before or after such meeting and attendance at the special meeting shall also constitute waiver of notice. Only the business stated in the call may be transacted at the special meeting except by unanimous consent of all members present. With such consent any business which may be transacted in a regular meeting may be conducted at the special meeting.
(c)
All meetings of the city council shall be public to the extent required by general state law and notice to the public of special meetings shall be made fully as is reasonably possible.
( Ord. No. 17-2016, § 1, 10-17-16 )
Sec. 2.13. - Rules of procedure.
The city council shall adopt its rules of procedure and order of business consistent with the provisions of this charter and shall provide for keeping a journal of its proceedings, which shall be a public record.
Sec. 2.14. - Quorum; voting.
A majority of all the members elected shall constitute a quorum and shall be authorized to transact business of the city council. Voting on the adoption of ordinances shall be taken by voice vote and the ayes and nays shall be recorded in the journal, but any member of the city council shall have the right to request a roll-call vote. The affirmative vote of a majority of the entire council shall be required for the adoption of any ordinance, resolution, or contract except as otherwise provided in this charter.
Sec. 2.15. - Ordinance form; procedure.
(a)
Every proposed ordinance shall be introduced in writing and in the form required for final adoption. No ordinance shall contain a subject which is not expressed in its title. The enacting clause shall be "The Council of the City of Holly Springs hereby ordains…" and every ordinance shall so begin.
(b)
An ordinance may be introduced by any councilmember and read at a regular or special meeting of the city council. Ordinances shall be considered and adopted or rejected by the city council in accordance with the rules which it shall establish.
Sec. 2.16. - Action requiring an ordinance.
In addition to other acts required by general state law or by specific provisions of this charter to be done by ordinance, acts of the city council which have the force and effect of law shall be done by ordinance.
Sec. 2.17. - Emergencies.
To meet a public emergency affecting life, health, property, or public peace, the city council may convene on call of the mayor or mayor pro tem and promptly adopt an emergency ordinance; but such ordinance may not levy taxes, grant, renew, or extend a franchise, regulate the rate charged by any public utility for its services, or authorize the borrowing of money except for loans to be repaid within 30 days. An emergency ordinance shall be introduced in the form prescribed for ordinances generally except that it shall be plainly designated as an emergency ordinance and shall contain, after the enacting clause, a declaration stating that an emergency exists and describing it in clear and specific terms. An emergency ordinance may be adopted with or without amendment or rejected at the meeting at which it is introduced, but the affirmative vote of at least three (3) councilmembers shall be required for adoption. It shall become effective upon adoption or at such later time as it may specify. Every emergency ordinance shall automatically stand repealed 60 days following the date upon which it was adopted, but this shall not prevent reenactment of the ordinance in the manner specified in this section if the emergency still exists. An emergency ordinance may also be repealed by adoption of a repealing ordinance in the same manner specified in this section for adoption of emergency ordinances.
Sec. 2.18. - Code of technical regulations.
(a)
The city council may adopt any standard code of technical regulations by reference thereto in an adopting ordinance. The procedure and requirements governing such adopting ordinance shall be as prescribed for ordinances generally except that a copy of each adopted code of technical regulations, as well as adopting ordinance, shall be authenticated and recorded by the clerk pursuant to section 2.19.
(b)
Copies of any adopted code of technical regulations shall be made available by the clerk for distribution or for purchase at a reasonable price.
Sec. 2.19. - Signing; authenticating; recording; codification; printing.
(a)
The clerk shall authenticate by his/her signature and record in full in a properly indexed book kept for the purpose all ordinances adopted by the council.
(b)
The city council shall provide for the preparation of a general codification of all of the ordinances of the city having the force and effect of law. The general codification shall be adopted by the city council by ordinance and shall be published promptly, together with all amendments thereto and such code of technical regulations and other rules and regulations as the city council may specify. This compilation shall be known and cited officially as "The Code of the City of Holly Springs, Georgia." Copies of the code shall be furnished to all officers, departments, and agencies of the city, and made available pursuant to the Georgia Open Records Act.
(c)
The city council shall cause each ordinance and each amendment to this charter to be printed promptly following its adoption, and the printed ordinances and charter amendments shall be made available pursuant to the Georgia Open Records Act. Following publication of the first code under this charter and at all times thereafter, the ordinances and charter amendments shall be printed in substantially the same style as the code currently in effect and shall be suitable in form for incorporation therein. The city council shall make such further arrangements as deemed desirable with respect to reproduction and distribution of any current changes in or additions to codes of technical regulations and other rules and regulations included in the code.
( Ord. No. 2013-01, § 8, 1-24-13, eff. 2-21-13 )
ARTICLE III. - ADMINISTRATIVE AFFAIRS

Sec. 3.01. - Administrative and service departments.
(a)
The council by ordinance may establish, abolish, merge, or consolidate offices, positions of employment, departments, and agencies of the city as it shall deem necessary for the proper administration of the affairs and government of the city. The council shall prescribe the functions and duties of existing departments, offices, and agencies or of any departments, offices, and agencies hereinafter created or established. The council may provide that the same person shall fill any number of offices and positions of employment and may transfer or change the functions or duties of offices, positions of employment, departments, and agencies of the city.
(b)
The operations and responsibilities of each department now or hereafter established in the city shall be distributed among such divisions or bureaus as may be provided by ordinance. Each department shall consist of such offices, employees, and positions as may be provided by this charter or by ordinance and shall be subject to the general supervision and guidance of the council.
(c)
Except as otherwise provided by this charter, the directors of departments and other appointed officers of the city shall serve at the pleasure of the person or body who appointed the officer. Vacancies occurring in an appointive office shall be filled in the same manner as prescribed by this charter for original appointment.
(d)
Except as otherwise provided by law, the directors of departments and other appointed officers of the city shall be appointed solely on the basis of their respective administrative and professional qualifications.
(e)
All appointive officers and directors of departments shall receive such compensation as prescribed by an approved pay plan or budget, or as otherwise established by the city council.
( Ord. No. 17-2016, § 2, 10-17-16 )
Sec. 3.02. - Boards, commissions, and authorities.
(a)
The city council shall create by ordinance such boards, commissions, and authorities to fulfill any investigative, quasi-judicial, or quasi-legislative function the city council deems necessary and shall by ordinance establish the composition, period of existence, duties and powers thereof.
(b)
All members of boards, commissions, and authorities of the city shall be appointed by the city council for such terms of office and in such manner as shall be provided by ordinance, except where other appointing authority, term of office, or manner of appointment is prescribed by this charter or general state law.
(c)
The city council by ordinance may provide for the compensation and reimbursement for actual and necessary expenses of the members of any board, commission, or authority.
(d)
The qualifications required of members of boards, commissions, or authorities shall be as prescribed by the council.
(e)
Any vacancy on a board, commission, or authority of the city shall be filled for the unexpired term in the manner prescribed herein for original appointment, except as otherwise provided by this charter or general state law.
(f)
No member of a board, commission, or authority shall assume office until he has executed and filed with the clerk of the city an oath obligating himself to perform faithfully and impartially the duties of his office, such oath to be prescribed by ordinance and administered by the mayor.
(g)
Any member of a board, commission, or authority may be removed from office for cause by a vote of three (3) members of the city council.
(h)
Except as otherwise provided by this charter or by general state law, each board, commission, or authority of the city shall elect one of its members as chairman and one member as vice-chairman and may elect as its secretary one of its own members or may appoint as secretary an employee of the city. Each board, commission, or authority of the city government may establish such bylaws, rules, and regulations not inconsistent with this charter, ordinances of the city, or general state law as it deems appropriate and necessary for the fulfillment of its duties or the conduct of its affairs, copies of which shall be filed with the clerk of the city.
Sec. 3.03. - City attorney.
The mayor and city council shall appoint a city attorney, together with such assistant city attorneys as may be authorized, and shall provide for the payment of such attorney or attorneys for services rendered to the city. The city attorney shall be responsible for representing and defending the city in all litigation in which the city is a party; may be the prosecuting officer in the municipal court; shall attend the meetings of the council as directed; shall advise the city council, mayor, and other officers and employees of the city concerning legal aspects of the city's affairs; and shall perform such other duties as may be required of him by virtue of his position as city attorney.
Code reference—City attorney, § 2-106 et seq.
Sec. 3.04. - City clerk.
The mayor and city council shall appoint a city clerk who shall not be a councilmember. The city clerk shall be custodian of the official city seal, maintain city council records required by this charter, and perform such other duties as may be required by the city council.
Sec. 3.05. - Tax collector.
The mayor and city council shall appoint a tax collector to collect all taxes, licenses, fees, and other funds belonging to the city subject to the provisions of this charter and the ordinances of the city, and the tax collector shall diligently comply with and enforce all general laws of Georgia relating to the collection, sale, or foreclosure of taxes by municipalities.
( Ord. No. 2013-01, § 9, 1-24-13, eff. 2-21-13 )
Sec. 3.06. - City accountant.
The mayor and city council shall appoint a city accountant to perform the duties of an accountant.
Sec. 3.07. - City manager.
The council may appoint a city manager. The duties and authority of the city manager shall be established by ordinance and, in so doing, the council may specifically delegate to the city manager any of the administrative or budgetary duties of the mayor.
Sec. 3.08 - Police chief.
In the event that the City Council has determined that there shall be a Police Department, the City Council shall appoint a police chief. The Police Chief shall be in charge of the police department and shall obtain such training and certification as required under state law.
( Ord. No. 17-2016, § 4, 10-17-16 )
Sec. 3.09. - Consolidation of functions.
The council may consolidate any two (2) or more of the positions of city clerk, city tax collector, and city accountant, or any other positions or may assign the functions of any one or more of such positions to the holder or holders of any other positions.
( Ord. No. 17-2016, § 3, 10-17-16 )
Sec. 3.10. - Position classification and pay plan.
The mayor and city council shall be responsible for the preparation of a position classification and pay plan which shall be submitted to the city council for approval. Said plan may apply to all employees of the city and any of its agencies, departments, boards, commissions, or authorities. When a pay plan has been adopted, the city council shall not increase or decrease the salaries of individual employees except by amendment of said pay plan. For purposes of this section, all elected and appointed city officials are not city employees.
( Ord. No. 17-2016, § 3, 10-17-16 )
Sec. 3.11. - Personnel policies.
The city council shall adopt rules and regulations consistent with this charter concerning:
(1)
The method of employee selection and probationary periods of employment;
(2)
The administration of the position classification and pay plan, methods of promotion and application of service ratings thereto, and transfer of employees within the classification plan;
(3)
Hours of work, vacation, sick leave, and other leaves of absence, overtime pay, and the order and manner in which layoff shall be effected;
(4)
Such dismissal hearings as due process may require; and
(5)
Such other personnel policies as may be necessary to provide for adequate and systematic handling of personnel affairs.
( Ord. No. 17-2016, § 3, 10-17-16 )
ARTICLE IV. - JUDICIAL BRANCH[3]

Footnotes:
--- (3) ---
Code reference—Municipal court, § 30-31 et seq.

Sec. 4.01. - Municipal court; creation.
There is hereby established a court to be known as Municipal Court of the City of Holly Springs which shall have jurisdiction and authority to try offenses against the laws and ordinances of said city and to punish for a violation of the same. Such court shall have the power and authority to enforce its judgments by the imposition of such penalties as may be provided by law; to punish witnesses for nonattendance; to punish any person who may counsel or advise, aid, encourage, or persuade another whose testimony is desired or material in any proceeding before said court to go or move beyond the reach of the process of the court; to try all offenses within the territorial limits of city constituting traffic cases which under the laws of Georgia are placed within the jurisdiction of municipal or police courts to the extent of and in accordance with the provisions of such laws and all laws subsequently enacted amendatory thereof. Said court shall be presided over by the judge of said court.
Sec. 4.02. - Judge.
(a)
No person shall be qualified or eligible to serve as judge unless he shall have attained the age of 21 years and shall be a member of the State Bar of Georgia and shall possess all qualifications required by law. All judges shall be appointed by the council for a term of one year and until a successor is appointed. The compensation of the judges shall be fixed by the council.
(b)
Municipal Court Judges may be removed from office on the grounds set forth in and following the procedures set forth in O.C.G.A. Section 32-32-2.2, as may be amended.
(c)
A judge pro tem shall serve in the absence or disqualification of the judge, shall be appointed by the council, shall take the same oath as the judge, and shall exercise the same powers and duties as the judge when acting in the judge's stead.
(d)
Before entering on the duties of his office, the judge shall take an oath before the city clerk that he will truly, honestly, and faithfully discharge the duties of his office to the best of his ability without fear, favor, or partiality. The oath shall be entered upon the minutes of the council.
( Ord. No. 17-2016, § 5, 10-17-16 )
Sec. 4.03. - Convening.
Said court shall be convened at such times as designated by ordinance or at such times as deemed necessary to keep current the dockets thereof.
Sec. 4.04. - Jurisdiction; powers.
(a)
The municipal court shall try and punish for crimes against the City of Holly Springs and for its ordinances, and for violations of those state laws for which jurisdiction is given to municipal courts. The municipal court shall have authority to punish those in its presence for contempt. The municipal court may impose punishment for offenses within its jurisdiction to the full extent allowed by the law of the State of Georgia.
(b)
The municipal court shall have the authority to establish a schedule of fees to defray the cost of operation and shall be entitled to reimbursement of the cost of meals, transportation, and caretaking of prisoners bound over to superior courts for violations of state law.
(c)
The municipal court shall have the authority to establish bail and recognizances to insure the presence of those charged with violations before said court and shall have discretionary authority to accept cash, personal property, or real property as surety for appearance of persons charged with violations. Whenever any person shall give bail for his appearance and shall fail to appear to the time fixed for trial, his bond shall be forfeited by the judge presiding at such time and an execution shall be issued thereon by serving the defendant and his sureties with a rule nisi at least two (2) days before a hearing on the rule nisi. In the event that cash or property is accepted in lieu of bond for security for the appearance of a defendant at trial and the defendant fails to appear at the time and place fixed for trial, the cash so deposited shall be forfeited on order of the judge to the City of Holly Springs or the property so deposited shall have a lien against it for the value forfeited, which lien shall be enforceable in the same manner and to the same extent as a lien for city property taxes.
(d)
The municipal court shall have the authority to bind prisoners over to the appropriate court when it appears by probable cause that a state law has been violated.
(e)
The municipal court shall have the authority to administer oaths and to perform all other acts necessary or proper to the conduct of said court.
(f)
The municipal court may compel the presence of all parties necessary to a proper disposal of each case by the issuance of summons, subpoenas, and warrants which may be served as executed by any officer as authorized by this charter or by state law.
(g)
The municipal court is specifically vested with all of the jurisdiction and powers throughout the entire area of the City of Holly Springs granted by state laws generally to mayor's, recorder's, and police courts and particularly by such laws as authorize the abatement of nuisances.
(Cht. Amdmt. of 1987; Ord. of 7-20-09, § 1; Ord. No. 2013-01, § 10, 1-24-13, eff. 2-21-13 )
Sec. 4.05. - Appeal.
The right of appeal from the municipal court to the superior court shall be by certiorari as provided by law.
Sec. 4.06. - Rules for court.
With the approval of the council, the judge shall have full power and authority to make reasonable rules and regulations necessary and proper to secure the efficient and successful administration of the municipal court; provided, however, that the council may adopt in whole or in part the rules and regulations relative to the procedures for the operation of the superior court under the general laws of the State of Georgia. The rules and regulations made or adopted for said court shall be filed with the city clerk, shall be available for public inspection, and, upon request, a copy shall be furnished to all defendants in municipal court proceedings at least 48 hours prior to said proceedings.
ARTICLE V. - ELECTIONS[4]

Footnotes:
--- (4) ---
Editor's note— House Bill No. 1137(Act No. 458), § 2, adopted March 20, 2014, repealed the former article V, §§ 5.01—5.06, and enacted a new article V as set out herein. The former article V pertained to similar subject matter. See Code Comparative Table for complete derivation.
Cross reference— Elections, § 2-211 et seq.

Sec. 5.01. - Applicability of general law.
All primaries and elections shall be held and conducted in accordance with the provisions of Title 21. Elections of the Official Code of Georgia Annotated, known as the "Georgia Election Code," as the same now exists or may hereafter be amended.
( H.B. 1137, § 2, 3-20-14 ; Ord. No. 17-2016, § 6, 10-17-16 )
Sec. 5.02. - Regular elections.
(a)
(1)
For purposes of electing members of the city council, the city is divided into five wards. One member of the council shall be elected from each such ward. The five wards shall be and correspond to those five numbered districts described in and attached to and made a part of this Act and further identified as 'Plan: hollysprings-2014 Plan Type: Local Administrator: Holly Springs User: bak'.
(2)
For the purposes of such plan:
(A)
The term 'VTD' shall mean and describe the same geographical boundaries as provided in the report of the Bureau of the Census for the United States decennial census of 2010 for the State of Georgia. The separate numeric designations in a district description which are underneath a VTD heading shall mean and describe individual Blocks within a VTD as provided in the report of the Bureau of the Census for the United States decennial census of 2010 for the State of Georgia; and
(B)
Except as otherwise provided in the description of any district, whenever the description of any district refers to a named city, it shall mean the geographical boundaries of that city as shown on the census maps for the United States decennial census of 2010 for the State of Georgia.
(3)
Any part of the city which is not included in any ward described in paragraph (1) of this subsection shall be included within that ward contiguous to such part which contains the least population according to the United States decennial census of 2010 for the State of Georgia.
(4)
Any part of the city which is described in paragraph (1) of this subsection as being included in a particular ward shall nevertheless not be included within such district if such part is not contiguous to such ward. Such noncontiguous part shall instead be included within that ward contiguous to such part which contains the least population according to the United States decennial census of 2010 for the State of Georgia.
(b)
Those members of the city council who are serving as such on the effective date of this section and any person selected to fill a vacancy in any such office shall continue to serve as such members until the regular expiration of their respective terms of office and upon the election and qualification of their respective successors.
(c)
On and after the effective date of this section, Kyle Whitaker shall be deemed to represent Ward No. l, Debbie Phillips shall be deemed to represent Ward No. 2, Michael Roy Zenchuk II shall be deemed to represent Ward No. 3, Karen Barnett shall be deemed to represent Ward No. 4, and Jeremy Smith shall be deemed to represent Ward No. 5.
( H.B. 1137, § 2, 3-20-14 )
Sec. 5.03. - Election at large; plurality vote.
The councilmember for each ward and the mayor shall be elected by the qualified electors of the city at large, and each candidate for mayor and city council receiving a plurality of the votes cast from the city at large shall be declared elected.
( H.B. 1137, § 2, 3-20-14 )
Sec. 5.04. - Special elections; vacancies.
In the event that the office of mayor or councilmember shall become vacant for any cause whatsoever, the city council or those remaining shall order a special election to fill the balance of the unexpired term of such office; provided, however, if such vacancy occurs within six (6) months of the expiration of the term of that office, the city council or those remaining shall appoint a successor for the remainder of the term. In all other respects the special election shall be held and conducted in accordance with the provisions of Title 21. Elections of the Official Code of Georgia Annotated, known as the "Georgia Election Code," as the same now exists or may hereafter be amended.
( H.B. 1137, § 2, 3-20-14 ; Ord. No. 17-2016, § 7, 10-17-16 )
Editor's note— Ord. No. 17-2016, § 7, adopted October 17, 2016 , set out provisions intended for use as § 5.03. To preserve the style of this Charter, and at the editor's discretion, these provisions have been included as § 5.04.
Sec. 5.05. - Other provisions.
Except as otherwise provided by this charter, the city council shall by ordinance prescribe such rules and regulations it deems appropriate to fulfill any options and duties under the provisions of state law pertaining to elections.
( H.B. 1137, § 2, 3-20-14 )
Sec. 5.06. - Grounds and procedure for removal of elected officers.
The council may by ordinance set forth the grounds and procedure for the removal of elected officials of the City of Holly Springs.
( H.B. 1137, § 2, 3-20-14 )
ARTICLE VI. - FINANCE AND FISCAL

Sec. 6.01. - Property tax.
The city council may assess, levy, and collect an ad valorem tax on all real and personal property within the corporate limits of the city that is subject to such taxation by the state and county. This tax is for the purpose of raising revenues to defray the costs of operating the city government, providing governmental services, the repayment of principal and interest on general obligations, and for any other public purpose as determined by the city council in its discretion.
Sec. 6.02. - Millage rate, due dates, payment methods.
The city council by ordinance shall establish a millage rate for the city property tax, a due date, and in what length of time these taxes must be paid. The city council by ordinance may provide for the payment of these taxes by installments or in one (1) lump sum, as well as to authorize the voluntary payment of taxes prior to the time when due.
Sec. 6.03. - Occupation and business taxes.
The city council by ordinance shall have the power to levy such occupation or business taxes as are not denied by general state law. Such taxes may be levied on both individuals and corporations who transact business in this city or who practice or offer to practice any profession or calling therein to the extent such persons have a constitutionally sufficient nexus to this city to be so taxed. The city council may classify businesses, occupations, professions, or callings for the purpose of such taxation in any way which may be lawful and compel the payment of such taxes as provided in section 6.09.
Code reference—Occupation taxes and regulatory fees, § 22-36 et seq.
Sec. 6.04. - Licenses, permits, fees.
The city council by ordinance shall have the power to require any individuals or corporations who transact business in this city or who practice or offer to practice any profession or calling therein to obtain a license or permit for such activity from the city and pay a reasonable fee for such license or permit where such activities are not now regulated by general state law in such a way as to preclude city regulation. Such fees may reflect the total cost to the city of regulating the activity and if unpaid shall be collected as provided in section 6.09. The city council by ordinance may establish reasonable requirements for obtaining or keeping such licenses as the public health, safety, and welfare necessitates.
Sec. 6.05. - Franchises.
The city council shall have the power to grant franchises for the use of this city's streets and alleys, for the purpose of railroads, street railways, telephone companies, electric companies, cable television, gas companies, transportation companies, and other similar organizations. The city council shall determine the duration, provisions, terms, whether the same shall be exclusive or nonexclusive, and the consideration for such franchises; provided, however, no franchise shall be granted for a period in excess of 35 years and no franchise shall be granted unless the city receives just and adequate compensation therefor. The city council shall provide for the registration of all franchises with the city. All franchises granted by the city shall be recorded and maintained in a registration book by the city clerk. The city council may provide by ordinance for the registration within a reasonable time of all franchises previously granted.
Sec. 6.06. - Service charges.
The city council by ordinance shall have the power to assess and collect fees, charges, and tolls for sewer, sanitary, health services, or any other services rendered within and without the corporate limits of the city for the total cost to the city of providing such services. If unpaid, such charges shall be collected as provided in section 6.09.
Sec. 6.07. - Special assessments.
The city council by ordinance shall have the power to assess and collect the cost of constructing, reconstructing, widening, or improving any public way, street, sidewalk, curbing, gutters, sewers, or other utility mains and appurtenances from the abutting property owners under such terms and conditions as are reasonable. If unpaid, such charges shall be collected as provided in section 6.09.
Sec. 6.08. - Construction; other taxes.
This city shall be empowered to levy any other tax allowed now or hereafter by state law and the specific mention of any right, power, or authority in this article shall not be construed as limiting in any way the general powers of this city to govern its local affairs.
Sec. 6.09. - Collection of delinquent taxes and fees.
The city council by ordinance may provide generally for the collection of delinquent taxes, fees, or other revenue due the city under sections 6.01 through 6.08 by whatever reasonable means as are not precluded by general state law. This shall include providing for the dates when the taxes or fees are due, late penalties or interest, issuance and execution of fi. fas., creation and priority of liens, making delinquent taxes and fees personal debts of the persons required to pay the taxes or fees imposed, revoking city licenses for failure to pay any city taxes or fees, allowing exceptions for hardship, and providing for the assignment or transfer of tax executions.
Sec. 6.10. - General obligation bonds.
The city council shall have the power to issue bonds for the purpose of raising revenue to carry out any project, program, or venture authorized under this charter or the general laws of the state. Such bonding authority shall be exercised in accordance with the laws governing bond issuances by municipalities in effect at the time said issue is undertaken.
Sec. 6.11. - Revenue bonds.
Revenue bonds may be issued by the city council as state law now or hereafter provides. Such bonds are to [be] paid out of any revenue produced by the project, program, or venture for which they were issued.
Sec. 6.12. - Short-term notes.
The city must obtain and repay any short-term loans between January 1 and December 31 of each year or as is otherwise provided by present or future state law.
Sec. 6.13. - Fiscal year.
The city council shall set the fiscal year by ordinance. This fiscal year shall constitute the budget year and the year for financial accounting and reporting of each and every office, department, agency, and activity of the city government, unless otherwise provided by general state or federal law.
Sec. 6.14. - Preparation of budgets.
The city council shall provide an ordinance on the procedures and requirements for the preparation and execution of an annual operating budget and a capital improvement program and a capital budget including requirements as to the scope, content, and form of such budgets and programs.
Sec. 6.15. - Changes in appropriations.
The city council by ordinance may make changes in the appropriations contained in the current operating budget at any regular meeting, special or emergency meeting called for such purpose, but any additional appropriations may be made only from an existing unappropriated surplus in the fund to which it applies or on a revised estimate of revenue.
Sec. 6.16. - Contracting procedures.
All contracts shall be made or authorized by the council and no contracts shall bind the city unless reduced to writing and approved by the council.
Sec. 6.17. - Centralized purchasing.
The council may by ordinance prescribe procedures for a system of centralized purchasing for the City of Holly Springs.
Sec. 6.18. - Sale of city property.
(a)
The council may sell and convey any real or personal property owned or held by the City of Holly Springs for governmental or other purposes at a public or private sale, with or without advertisement, for such consideration as the council shall deem equitable and just for the city.
(b)
The council may quitclaim any rights it may have in property not needed for public purposes upon report by the mayor and adoption of a resolution both finding that the property is not needed for public or other purposes and that the interest of the city has no readily ascertainable monetary value.
(c)
Whenever a small parcel or tract of land is cut off or separated from a larger tract or boundary of land owned by the city in connection with the extending or widening of any street, avenue, alley, or public place in the city, the council may authorize the mayor to execute and deliver in the name of the city a deed conveying said cutoff or separated parcel or tract of land to an abutting or adjoining property owner or owners in exchange for rights-of-way of said street, avenue, alley, or public place or in settlement of any alleged damages sustained by said abutting or adjoining property owner. All deeds and conveyances heretofore and hereafter so executed and delivered shall convey all title and interest the city has in such property notwithstanding the fact that no public sale after advertisement was or is hereafter made.
ARTICLE VII. - GENERAL PROVISIONS

Sec. 7.01. - Eminent domain.
The city council is hereby empowered to acquire, construct, operate, and maintain public ways, parks, public grounds, cemeteries, markets, market houses, public buildings, libraries, sewers, drains, sewage treatment, waterworks, electrical systems, gas systems, airports, hospitals, and charitable, educational, recreational, sport, curative, corrective, detentional, penal, and medical institutions, agencies, and facilities, and any other public improvements inside or outside the city, and to regulate the use thereof, and for such purposes, property may be taken in accordance with the provisions of Title 22. Eminent Domain of the Official Code of Georgia Annotated, relating to eminent domain, subject to such amendments as shall be enacted or any other Georgia law applicable now or provided in the future.
( Ord. No. 17-2016, § 8, 10-17-16 )
Sec. 7.02. - Official bonds.
The officers and employees of this city, both elective and appointive, shall execute such official bonds in such amounts and upon such terms and conditions as the city council shall from time to time require by ordinance or as may be provided by state law.
Sec. 7.03. - Existing ordinances, resolutions, rules, and regulations.
Existing ordinances, resolutions, rules, and regulations of this city not in conflict with this charter shall continue in force, unless repealed or amended. Existing rules and regulations of departments or agencies of the city not inconsistent with the provisions of this charter shall also remain in effect until they have been repealed or amended.
Sec. 7.04. - Prior ordinances.
All ordinances, bylaws, rules, and regulations now in force in the city not inconsistent with this charter are hereby declared valid and of full effect and force until amended or repealed by the city council.
Sec. 7.05. - Pending matters.
Except as specifically provided otherwise by this charter, all rights, claims, actions, orders, contracts, and legal or administrative proceedings shall continue and any such ongoing work or cases shall be dealt with by such city agencies, personnel, or office as may be provided by the city council.
Sec. 7.06. - Penalties.
The violation of any provisions of this charter, for which penalty is not specifically provided for herein, is hereby declared to be a misdemeanor and shall be punishable by a fine of not more than $1,000.00 or by imprisonment not to exceed 12 months or with such fine and imprisonment.
