ARTICLE I. - IN GENERAL

Sec. 98-1. - Definitions.
The following words, terms and phrases, when used in this chapter, shall have the meanings ascribed to them in this section, except where the context clearly indicates a different meaning:
Utility means and includes water, sewer and/or any other utility service furnished by the city to consumers thereof.
(Code 1976, § 35-1)
Cross reference— Definitions generally, § 1-2.
Sec. 98-2. - Scope of provisions.
All pertinent provisions of this chapter are hereby made a part of the terms and conditions whereby the city shall furnish any utility service to any person, or whereby the city shall make any utility connections, or perform any work of any kind in connection with the furnishing of any utility service pursuant to the rules and regulations of the board of commissioners.
(Code 1976, § 35-2)
Sec. 98-3. - Service to comply with technical provisions.
Any utility service furnished under the provisions of this chapter shall be in accordance, and in compliance, with all applicable technical provisions of this Code, state law and city ordinances, rules and regulations.
(Code 1976, § 35-3)
Sec. 98-4. - Rules, regulations, standards and specifications.
The board of commissioners shall have the authority to establish, by rule or regulation, such standards and specifications as may be deemed necessary for the installation, construction and maintenance of any utility service system owned and operated by the city, within or without the city, and under the management of the board. Such rules, regulations, standards and specifications shall be filed in the office of the city clerk. Violation of such rules, regulations, standards and specifications shall be deemed an offense.
(Code 1976, § 35-4)
Sec. 98-5. - Inspection and approval outside city limits.
In order to protect the utility service supply, the city will not make any water or sewer taps outside the city limits until the premises involved has been inspected and approved by the plumbing inspector.
(Code 1976, § 35-5)
Sec. 98-6. - Right of entry for inspection.
Any authorized inspector of the city shall have free access, at any time, to all premises supplied with any utility service by the city for the purpose of examination in order to protect the utility services from abusive use.
(Code 1976, § 35-6)
Sec. 98-7. - Right to disconnect, refuse to connect or reconnect service authorized.
The city shall have the right to disconnect or refuse to connect or reconnect any utility service for any of the following reasons:
(1)
Failure to meet the applicable provisions of law;
(2)
Violation of the rules and regulations pertaining to utility service;
(3)
Nonpayment of bills;
(4)
Willful or negligent waste of service due to improper or imperfect pipes, fixtures, appliances or otherwise;
(5)
Molesting any meter, seal or other equipment controlling or regulating the supply of utility service;
(6)
Theft or diversion and/or use of service without payment therefor;
(7)
Vacancy of premises.
(Code 1976, § 35-7)
Sec. 98-8. - Liability of city for damage.
The city shall not be liable for any damage to any customer of any utility service furnished by the city due to backflow of the sewerage system, failure of supply, interruption of service or any other cause outside the direct control of the city.
(Code 1976, § 35-8)
Sec. 98-9. - Application required for utility service.
(a)
Generally. Any person desiring any utility service furnished by the city shall make application for such service to the board of commissioners. Such application shall contain the applicant's name, address and the uses for which such utility service is desired.
(b)
Water and/or sewer service. All persons desiring water and/or sewer service from the city must make application to the city at city hall, on forms furnished by the city water department. Such applicants must complete such forms in full, and furnish all of the required information prior to receiving any water and/or sewer service. Such applications shall be in addition to all other requirements and applications presently required for persons desiring water and/or sewer service from the city.
(Code 1976, § 35-9)
Sec. 98-10. - Right of city to decline, fail or cease to furnish utility service to debtors.
The city may decline or fail or cease to furnish utility service to any person who may be in debt to the city for any reason, except current taxes and special assessments.
(Code 1976, § 35-10)
Sec. 98-11. - Approval of application deemed permission.
Approval of the application for any utility service by the board of commissioners shall be deemed permission for such service.
(Code 1976, § 35-11)
Sec. 98-12. - Use assumed.
All premises connected to any utility service of the city shall be assumed to be using such utility service, and the owner or occupant shall be charged for such service as long as such premises shall remain connected with the utility service.
(Code 1976, § 35-12)
Sec. 98-13. - Use contrary to permit.
Any person having a permit from the city for the use of any utility service offered by the city who shall use such utility service for any purpose other than the purpose mentioned in such permit, or who shall make any unauthorized changes in such service shall be deemed guilty of an offense.
(Code 1976, § 35-13)
Sec. 98-14. - Tampering with, damaging and trespassing upon equipment or premises.
It shall be unlawful for any person, not having authority to do so, to open any water hydrant or tamper with any utility service furnished by the city to consumers, or in any other way to molest, damage or trespass upon any equipment or premises belonging to the city connected with any utility service.
(Code 1976, § 35-14)
Sec. 98-15. - Temporary interruption of service.
The city reserves the right to cut off any utility service without notice in case of emergencies. When an interruption in service is necessary for the maintenance and improvement of the utility system, affected customers will be notified, as circumstances permit.
(Code 1976, § 35-15)
Sec. 98-16. - Right to restrict or prevent use.
The city hereby reserves the right, at any time, to restrict or prevent the use of any utility service furnished by the city during periods of emergency or circumstances demanding such restriction or prevention of use.
(Code 1976, § 35-16)
Sec. 98-17. - Sale of service by customer.
It shall be unlawful for any person to resell to others any utility service obtained from the city, except only by special arrangement with the board of commissioners.
(Code 1976, § 35-17)
Sec. 98-18. - Connections to service.
Connections for any utility service furnished by the city shall be made only under the supervision of the board of commissioners.
(Code 1976, § 35-18)
Sec. 98-19. - Separate connections.
Every building, structure or consumer within the city shall have a separate utility service connection.
(Code 1976, § 35-19)
Sec. 98-20. - Unlawful connections.
Any person who shall make any connection, in any manner, to any utility system, whether owned by the city or not, without the prior knowledge and consent of the owner of such utility system, shall be deemed guilty of an offense.
(Code 1976, § 35-20)
Sec. 98-21. - Unlawful connections, disconnections, etc.
No person, other than employees of the city, shall be authorized to connect, turn on, turn off or disconnect any utility service offered by the city, or remove, replace or repair any equipment connected to any such utility service.
(Code 1976, § 35-21)
Sec. 98-22. - Maintenance of system by consumer.
The consumer of any utility service furnished by the city shall maintain and keep in good repair all connections, appliances and other apparatus installed and used in connection with such utility service.
(Code 1976, § 35-22)
Sec. 98-23. - Delinquent water and/or sewer bills.
All water and/or sewer bills owed the city, which are over 60 days past due, shall be turned over to the magistrate's court of the county for collection. If a person has a delinquent water and/or sewer bill with the city and applies to have water and/or sewer turned on at a different location, or if it is determined that such person is residing at such different location even though the person applying for the water and/or sewer to be turned on is a different person, then such water and/or sewer will not be turned on or connected until such time as the delinquent water and/or sewer bill is paid in full.
(Code 1976, § 35-23)
Secs. 98-24—98-50. - Reserved.
