Chapter 74 - RAILROADS[1]

Footnotes:
--- (1) ---
Cross reference— Noise control for railroads, § 38-117; planning and zoning, ch. 70; streets and sidewalks, ch. 86.

Sec. 74-1. - Blocking streets by trains.
It shall be unlawful for any railroad company whose trains operate within the city, or for any employee of such railroad company, to permit any car, train or engine to direct the operation of, or operate such car, train or engine in such a manner so as to prevent the use of any street for purposes of travel for a period of time longer than five minutes, except that the provisions of this section shall not apply to trains or cars in motion, other than those engaged in switching.
(Code 1976, § 26-1)
Sec. 74-2. - Barricades and warning devices at crossings required; notice.
Every railroad company which has railroad tracks which run through the city, or any portion thereof, shall be required to erect, place or construct such barricades or other warning devices as shall be required by the city at all crossings of such tracks with the streets, alleys or other public ways within the city. Upon notice by registered mail, return receipt requested, from the city to any such railroad company directing such railroad company to erect, place or construct such warning devices, it shall be unlawful for such railroad company to fail to do so within 60 days after receipt of such notice.
(Code 1976, § 26-2)
Sec. 74-3. - Obedience to barricades and warning devices.
(a)
Whenever any person driving a vehicle approaches a railroad grade crossing under any of the circumstances stated in this section, the driver of such vehicle shall stop within 50 feet, but not less than 15 feet from the nearest rail of such railroad, and shall not proceed until he can do so safely.
(b)
The requirements of subsection (a) of this section shall apply when:
(1)
A clearly visible electric or mechanical signal device gives warning of the immediate approach of a railroad train;
(2)
A crossing gate is lowered or a human flagman gives, or continues to give, a signal of the approach of a railroad train;
(3)
A railroad train approaching within approximately 1,500 feet of the highway crossing emits a signal audible from such distance and such railroad train, by reason of its speed or nearness to such crossing, is an immediate hazard;
(4)
An approaching railroad train is plainly visible and is in hazardous proximity to such crossing.
(c)
No person shall drive any vehicle through, around or under any crossing gate or barrier at a railroad grade crossing while such gate or barrier is closed or is being opened or closed.
(Code 1976, § 26-3)
Sec. 74-4. - Maintenance of crossings.
It shall be the duty of each railroad company whose lines of tracks are constructed within the city to put in good repair and maintain in good condition all streets, or parts thereof, through or over which its lines of tracks may run, and to keep them free from obstructions of every kind, which repair shall be made and constructed under the direction and supervision of the city.
(Code 1976, § 26-4)
