ARTICLE II. - BOARD OF COMMISSIONERS[2]

Footnotes:
--- (2) ---
State Law reference— Code of ethics for government service, O.C.G.A. § 45-10-1 et seq.

Sec. 2-31. - Regular meetings.
The board of commissioners of the city shall hold regular meetings on the first Tuesday of each calendar month. The hour fixed for any such regular meeting may be specially set by the board of commissioners by majority vote of the commissioners. In the absence of any specially set hour for any such regular meeting or series of meetings, regular meetings otherwise shall commence at seven o'clock post meridian (7:00 p.m.). When the day fixed for any such regular meeting falls on a day designated as a federal or state holiday, such meeting shall be held on the next succeeding Tuesday at the hour originally specially set for such meeting by majority vote of the board of commissioners or at seven o'clock post meridian (7:00 p.m.) if no such hour was specially set. Nothing contained herein shall otherwise prohibit, restrict, or prevent the board of commissioners of the city from calling, holding, convening or participating in any specially-called meeting or work session of the board of commissioners as otherwise permitted under the Code of the city. Regular meetings of the board of commissioners of the city shall be held at City Hall in Jesup, Georgia. The board of commissioners may, however, specially fix an alternative location for any such meeting by majority vote of the commissioners.
(Code 1976, § 2-14; Ord. of 5-3-2016)
Sec. 2-32. - Special meetings.
A special meeting of the board of commissioners may be held at the call of any three commissioners. Whenever a special meeting is called, notice shall be given by the clerk of the commissioners to each member of the board of commissioners setting forth the date, hour and place of the meeting, and the purpose for which the meeting is called, and no business shall be transacted at such special meeting, except such as is given in the notice, without the unanimous consent of the entire board of commissioners.
(Code 1976, § 2-15)
Sec. 2-33. - Meeting agenda.
All reports, communications, ordinances, resolutions, contract documents or other matter to be submitted to the board of commissioners shall, be delivered to the city manager at least 30 hours prior to each meeting of the board of commissioners, whereupon the city manager shall immediately arrange a list of such matters according to the order of business and furnish each member of the board of commissioners with a copy of the list at least 24 hours prior to the meeting.
(Code 1976, § 2-16)
Sec. 2-34. - Presiding officer and mayor pro tem.
(a)
The mayor shall be the presiding officer of the board of commissioners, or in his absence or disqualification, the mayor pro tem. It shall be the duty of the presiding officer to preserve order and decorum at all meetings, to state every question coming before the board, announce the decision of the board on all subjects and decide all questions of order, subject, however, to an appeal to the board, in which event, a majority vote of the board shall govern and conclusively determine such question of order.
(b)
The office of mayor pro tem is to be filled by a commissioner from one of the commission districts for a term of one year. After the commissioner representing District 1 serves for a term of one year, the commissioner representing District 2 shall serve for a term of one year. After the commissioner representing District 2 serves for a term of one year, the commissioner representing District 3 shall serve for a term of one year. After the commissioner representing District 3 serves for a term of one year, the commissioner representing District 4 shall serve for a term of one year. After the commissioner representing District 4 serves for a term of one year, the commissioner representing District 5 shall serve for a term of one year. After the commissioner representing District 5 serves for a term of one year, the commissioner representing District 6 shall serve for a term of one year. After the commissioner representing District 6 serves for a term one year, the commissioner representing District 1 serves for a term of one year.
(Code 1976, § 2-17)
Sec. 2-35. - Mayor's vote.
The mayor shall have the right to vote only in the case of a tie vote of the commissioners voting on any matter.
(Code 1976, § 2-18)
Sec. 2-36. - Call to order.
The presiding officer shall take the chair precisely at the hour appointed for the meeting of the board of commissioners, and shall immediately call the board to order.
(Code 1976, § 2-19)
Sec. 2-37. - Roll call.
Before proceeding with the business of the board of commissioners, the city clerk or his deputy may call the roll of the members of the board, and the name of those present shall be entered in the minutes.
(Code 1976, § 2-20)
Sec. 2-38. - Quorum.
Four members of the board of commissioners shall constitute a quorum for the transaction of any business pertaining to the city. In the absence of a quorum, the presiding officer shall, at the instance of any member, compel the attendance of absent members; provided, however, the enactment of any ordinance or resolution, or the passage of any motion, or the transaction of any business requiring a vote of the board shall require at least four votes of the board.
(Code 1976, § 2-21)
Sec. 2-39. - Rules of order.
Robert's Rules of Order, newly revised, 1970 edition, published by Scott, Foresman and Company, shall govern the board of commissioners in its deliberation in cases not otherwise provided for by statute, ordinance, rule or regulation.
Sec. 2-40. - Debates.
Every member of the board of commissioners desiring to speak shall address the chair, and, upon recognition by the presiding officer, shall confine himself to the question under debate, avoiding all personalities and indecorous language.
(Code 1976, § 2-23)
Sec. 2-41. - Interruptions.
Once recognized, a member of the board of commissioners shall not be interrupted when speaking unless it is to call him to order or as otherwise provided in this article. While speaking, if a member is called to order, he shall cease speaking until the question of order is determined, and, if in order, he shall be permitted to proceed.
(Code 1976, § 2-24)
Sec. 2-42. - Privilege of closing debate.
The commissioner moving the adoption of an ordinance or resolution shall have the privilege of closing the debate.
(Code 1976, § 2-25)
Sec. 2-43. - Motion to reconsider.
A motion to reconsider any action taken by the board of commissioners may be made only on the day such action was taken. Such motion may be made either immediately during the same session, or at a recessed or adjourned session thereof. Such motion must be made by one of the prevailing side, but may be seconded by another member, and may be made at any time and have precedence over all other motions or while a member has the floor, and it shall be debatable. Nothing in this section shall be construed to prevent any member of the commission from making or remaking the same or any other motion at a subsequent meeting of the board.
(Code 1976, § 2-26)
Sec. 2-44. - Remarks of commissioners; when entered in minutes.
A commissioner may request, through the presiding officer, the privilege of having an abstract of his statement on any subject under consideration by the board of commissioners entered in the minutes. Upon such request, such statement shall be entered in the minutes.
(Code 1976, § 2-27)
Sec. 2-45. - Synopsis of debate; when entered in minutes.
The clerk may be directed by the presiding officer, with the consent of the board of commissioners, to enter in the minutes a synopsis of the discussion on any question coming regularly before the board.
(Code 1976, § 2-28)
Sec. 2-46. - Addressing the board of commissioners.
Any person desiring to address the board of commissioners shall first secure the permission of the presiding officer to do so; provided, however, that, unless the presiding officer rules otherwise, any qualified person may address the board of commissioners, under the following headings of business, without securing such prior permission:
(1)
Written communications. Interested parties or other authorized representatives may address the board of commissioners by written communications in regard to matters that are under discussion.
(2)
Oral communications. Taxpayers or residents of the city, or their authorized legal representatives, may address the board of commissioners by oral communication on any matter concerning the city's business or over which the board of commissioners has control; provided, however, that preference shall be given to those persons who have notified the city manager in advance of their desire to speak in order that such persons may appear on the agenda of the board.
(3)
Reading of protest, etc. Interested persons or their authorized representatives may address the board by the reading of protests, petitions or communications relating to zoning, sewer and street proceedings or similar matters in regard to matters then under consideration.
(Code 1976, § 2-29)
Sec. 2-47. - Addressing the board of commissioners after motion is made.
After a motion is made by the board of commissioners, no person shall address the board without securing permission of the board to do so.
(Code 1976, § 2-30)
Sec. 2-48. - Manner of addressing board of commissioners; time limit.
Each person addressing the board of commissioners shall step up in front of the board; give his name and remarks in an audible tone of voice; and, unless further time is granted by the board, shall limit his address to 15 minutes. All remarks shall be addressed to the board as a body and not to any members thereof. No person, other than the board and the person having the floor, shall be permitted to enter into any discussion, without the permission of the presiding officer, either directly or through a member of the board. No question shall be asked of a board member, except through the presiding officer.
(Code 1976, § 2-31)
Sec. 2-49. - Silence constitutes affirmative vote.
Unless a member of the board of commissioners states that he is not voting, his silence shall be construed and recorded as an affirmative vote.
(Code 1976, § 2-32)
Sec. 2-50. - Decorum—Generally.
(a)
By board members. While the board of commissioners is in session, the members must preserve order and decorum, and a member, by conversation or otherwise, shall neither delay or interrupt the proceedings or the peace of the board, nor disturb any member while speaking, or refuse to obey the orders of the board or its presiding officer, except as otherwise provided in this Code.
(b)
By persons. Any person making personal, impertinent or slanderous remarks or who shall become boisterous while addressing the board shall be forthwith barred from further audience before the board by the presiding officer, unless permission to continue is granted by a majority vote of the board.
(Code 1976, § 2-33)
Sec. 2-51. - Same—Enforcement.
The chief of police or the marshal, or such members of the police department as may be designated, shall carry out all orders and instructions given by the presiding officer for the purpose of maintaining order and decorum at the board of commissioners' meetings and shall be sergeant-at-arms of the board meetings. Upon instructions of the presiding officer, it shall be the duty of the sergeant-at-arms, or such members of the police department present, to place any person who violates the order and decorum of the meeting under arrest and cause him to be prosecuted under the provisions of this Code, and the complaint is to be signed by the presiding officer.
(Code 1976, § 2-34)
Sec. 2-52. - Adjournment.
A motion to adjourn shall always be in order and decided without debate.
(Code 1976, § 2-35)
Sec. 2-53. - Special committees.
All special committees shall be appointed by the board of commissioners.
(Code 1976, § 2-36)
Sec. 2-54. - Report of committees.
The committees appointed by the board of commissioners shall make such reports as may be necessary, in writing, and shall return the petition, resolution, account or other paper submitted for consideration.
(Code 1976, § 2-37)
Sec. 2-55. - Members may file protests against board action.
Any member of the board of commissioners shall have the right to have the reasons for his dissent from, or protest against, any action of the board entered on the minutes.
(Code 1976, § 2-38)
Sec. 2-56. - Reports and resolutions to be filed with clerk.
All reports and resolutions of the board of commissioners shall be filed with the city clerk and entered upon the minutes in brief form.
(Code 1976, § 2-39)
Secs. 2-57—2-90. - Reserved.
