ARTICLE III. - LEGISLATION[3]
Footnotes:
--- (3) ---
State Law reference— Ordinances of city council not to bind succeeding councils, O.C.G.A. § 36-30-3; authority to adopt municipal ordinances, resolutions or regulations, O.C.G.A. § 36-35-3(a).

DIVISION 1. - GENERALLY

Sec. 2-91. - Preparation of ordinances.
All ordinances shall be prepared by the city attorney. No ordinance shall be prepared for presentation to the board of commissioners unless ordered by a member of the board or the city manager, or prepared by the city attorney on his own initiative.
(Code 1976, § 2-51)
Sec. 2-92. - Ordaining clause.
The entering or ordaining clause of all ordinances introduced in board of commissioners shall be:
"Be it ordained by the board of commissioners for the City of Jesup:"
(Code 1976, § 2-52)
Sec. 2-93. - Subject restricted.
No ordinance shall relate to more than one subject, except ordinances making appropriations and ordinances codifying or rearranging existing ordinances, and the subject of all ordinances shall be clearly expressed in the title.
(Code 1976, § 2-53)
Sec. 2-94. - Introduction and sponsorship for passage; exception.
Ordinances, resolutions and other matters or subjects requiring action by the board of commissioners must be introduced and sponsored by a member of the board, except that the city manager or city attorney may present ordinances, resolutions and other matters or subjects to the commissioners, and any commissioner may assume sponsorship thereof by moving that such ordinances, resolutions, matters or subjects be adopted; otherwise, they shall not be considered.
(Code 1976, § 2-54)
Sec. 2-95. - Final passage restricted.
No ordinance shall be put on its final passage on the same day on which it was introduced unless a second reading is dispensed with by a vote of all members of the board of commissioners.
(Code 1976, § 2-55)
Sec. 2-96. - When ordinances to take effect.
All ordinances passed by the board of commissioners, except when otherwise specifically provided, shall take effect and be in force from and after the last reading.
(Code 1976, § 2-56)
Sec. 2-97. - Effect of repeal.
When an ordinance repealing a former ordinance, clause or provision shall be repealed, such repeal shall not be construed to revive such former ordinance, clause or provision, unless it shall be expressly so provided.
(Code 1976, § 2-57)
Secs. 2-98—2-120. - Reserved.
DIVISION 2. - AMENDMENTS TO CODE

Sec. 2-121. - Effect.
Any and all additions and amendments to this Code, when passed in such form as to indicate the intention of the board of commissioners to make such additions and amendments a part of this Code, shall be deemed to be incorporated in this Code so that reference to "the Code of the City of Jesup," shall be understood and intended to include such additions and amendments.
(Code 1976, § 2-64)
Sec. 2-122. - Manner.
All ordinances passed subsequent to the adoption of this Code, which amend, repeal or in any way affect this Code, may be numbered in accordance with the numbering system of this Code and printed for inclusion in this Code, or in the case of repealed chapters, sections and subsections, or any part thereof, subsequent ordinances, such repealed portions may be excluded from the Code by omission from reprinted pages affected thereby, and the subsequent ordinances as numbered and printed or omitted, in the case of repeal, shall be prima facie evidence of such subsequent ordinances until such time that this Code and subsequent ordinances numbered or omitted are readopted as a new Code of Ordinances by the board of commissioners.
(Code 1976, § 2-65)
Sec. 2-123. - Language.
Amendments to any of the provisions of this Code should be made by amending such provisions by specific reference to the section of this Code in substantially the following language:
"That section _____ of the Code of the City of Jesup, is hereby amended to read as follows:… (set out new provisions in full)."
(Code 1976, § 2-66)
Sec. 2-124. - New material.
(a)
If a new section not heretofore existing in the Code is to be added, the following language may be used:
"That the Code of the City of Jesup, is hereby amended by adding a section (or article, chapter or other designation, as the case may be), to be numbered _____, which reads as follows:… (set out new provisions in full)."
(b)
In lieu of subsection (a) of this section, when the board of commissioners desires to enact an ordinance of a general and permanent nature embracing a subject not previously existing in the Code which the board desires to incorporate into the Code, a provision, in substantially the following language, may be made part of such ordinance:
"It is the intention of the board of commissioners, and it is hereby ordained, that the provisions of this ordinance shall become and be made part of the Code of the City of Jesup, and the sections of this ordinance may be renumbered to accomplish such intention."
(Code 1976, § 2-67)
Sec. 2-125. - Repeal.
All sections, articles, chapters or other provisions of this Code desired to be repealed should be specifically repealed by section number, article number, chapter or other number, as the case may be.
(Code 1976, § 2-68)
Sec. 2-126. - Subject to general penalty.
In case of the amendment of any section of this Code by the board of commissioners for which a penalty is not provided, the general penalty as provided in section 1-11 of this Code shall apply to the section, as amended; or in case such amendment contains provisions for which a penalty, other than the general penalty as provided in section 1-11 of this Code, is provided in another section in the same chapter, the penalty so provided in such other section shall be held to relate to the section so amended, unless such penalty is specifically repealed therein.
(Code 1976, § 2-69)
Sec. 2-127. - Supplementation of Code.
(a)
By contract or by city personnel, supplements to this Code shall be prepared and printed whenever authorized or directed by the board of commissioners. A supplement to this Code shall include all substantive permanent and general parts of ordinances passed by the board or adopted by initiative and referendum during the period covered by the supplement and all changes made thereby in this Code, and shall also include all amendments to the Charter during that period. The pages of a supplement shall be so numbered that they will fit properly into the Code and will, where necessary, replace pages which have become obsolete or partially obsolete, and the new pages shall be prepared so that when they have been inserted, the Code will be current through the date of the adoption of the latest ordinance included in the supplement.
(b)
In preparing a supplement to this Code, all portions of the Code which have been repealed shall be excluded from the Code by the omission thereof from reprinted pages.
(c)
When preparing a supplement to this Code, the codifier (meaning the person, agency or organization authorized to prepare the supplement) may make formal, nonsubstantive changes in ordinances and parts of ordinances included in the supplement insofar as it is necessary to do so to embody them into a unified code. For example, the codifier may:
(1)
Organize the ordinance material into appropriate subdivisions;
(2)
Provide appropriate catchlines, headings and titles for sections and other subdivisions of the Code printed in the supplement, and make changes in such catchlines, headings and titles;
(3)
Assign appropriate numbers to sections and other subdivisions to be inserted in the Code and, where necessary to accommodate new material, change existing section or other subdivision numbers;
(4)
Change the words "this ordinance," or words of the same meaning, to "this chapter," "this article," "this division," etc., as the case may be, or to "sections _____ to _____" (inserting section numbers to indicate the sections of the Code which embody the substantive sections of the ordinance incorporated into the Code); and
(5)
Make other nonsubstantive changes necessary to preserve the original meaning of ordinance sections inserted into the Code, but, in no case, shall the codifier make any change in the meaning or effect of ordinance material included in the supplement or already embodied in the Code.
(Code 1976, § 2-127)
Secs. 2-128—2-160. - Reserved.
