ARTICLE IV. - CONTINUITY OF GOVERNMENT IN EMERGENCY[5]

Footnotes:
--- (5) ---
Editor's note— Art. IV, §§ 2-50—2-56, is derived from Ord. No. 66-212, §§ 1—7, adopted and effective October 31, 1966. As said ordinance was nonamendatory of this Code, the manner of codification has been at the discretion of the editors.

Sec. 2-50. - Short title.
This article shall be known and may be cited as the "Continuity of Government Ordinance of the City of Columbus".
(Ord. No. 66-212, § 1, 10-31-66)
Sec. 2-51. - Definitions.
As used in this article, unless the context otherwise clearly indicates:
Attack shall mean any attack or series of attacks by an enemy of the United States causing, or which may cause, substantial damage or injury to civilian property or persons in the United States in any manner, by sabotage or by the use of bombs, missiles, shellfire, or atomic, radiological, chemical, bacteriological, or biological means or other weapons or processes.
Duly authorized deputy shall mean a person who is presently authorized to perform all of the functions, exercise all of the powers and discharge all of the duties of an office in the event the office is vacant or at such times as it lacks administration due to the death, absence or disability of the incumbent officer.
Emergency interim successor shall mean a person designated pursuant to this article for possible temporary succession to the powers and duties, but not the office, of a city officer in the event that such officer or any duly authorized deputy is unavailable to exercise the powers and discharge the duties of the office.
Unavailable shall mean either that a vacancy in office exists and there is no deputy authorized to exercise all of the powers and discharge the duties of the office, or that the lawful incumbent of the office (including any deputy exercising the powers and discharging the duties of an office because of a vacancy) and his duly authorized deputy are absent or unable, for physical, mental or legal reasons, to exercise the powers and discharge the duties of the office.
(Ord. No. 66-212, § 2, 10-31-66)
Sec. 2-52. - Designation, status, qualifications and term of emergency interim successors.
(a)
Elective officers. Within 30 days following the effective date of this article [6] and thereafter within 30 days after the re-organization of the city government in January, the city commission of the City of Columbus shall appoint three emergency interim successors to fill the positions of members of the city commission, the city clerk, the city attorney, the city manager, and the recorders court judge, and shall designate and specify their rank in order of succession.
(b)
Appointive officers. The city manager and the acting safety director shall, within the time specified in subsection (a) of this section, in addition to any duly authorized emergency interim successor designated for appointive officers including chief of police, chief of the fire department, and all department heads of the city, appoint three emergency interim successors to these offices and such appointment shall specify their rank in order of succession and all such appointed positions which, under the provisions of the Charter of the City of Columbus, are required to be approved by the city commission of the City of Columbus or to be approved by the safety board of the City of Columbus, and shall be submitted for approval by the city manager or acting safety director within the time specified in subsection (a) hereof.
(c)
Office of mayor. Notwithstanding any other provision of this article, recognizing the duties of the office of the mayor to govern by proclamation where a quorum is not present, interim successors positions to succeed to the office of mayor are hereby listed in the following order:
(1)
The duly elected mayor pro tem shall assume the duties of mayor.
(2)
In the event the mayor and the mayor pro tem are neither available, the duly elected member of the city commission having the longest period of service on the commission as a commissioner shall assume the duties of mayor.
(d)
Qualifications. No person shall be designated or serve as an emergency interim successor unless he may under the Constitution and Statutes of this State and the Charter or Ordinances of this city, hold the office of the person to whose powers and duties he is designated to succeed, but no provision of any ordinance prohibiting an officer or employee of this city from holding another office shall be applicable to an emergency interim successor.
(Ord. No. 66-212, § 3, 10-31-66)
Footnotes:
--- (6) ---
Editor's note— The effective date is October 31, 1966.

Sec. 2-53. - Assumption of powers and duties of officer by emergency interim successor.
If in the event of an attack any officer named in subsections (a) and (b) of section 2-52 of this article and any duly authorized deputy is unavailable, his emergency interim successor highest in rank in order of succession who is not unavailable shall, except for the power and duty to appoint emergency interim successors, exercise the powers and discharge the duties of such officer. An emergency interim successor shall exercise these powers and discharge these duties only until such time as the lawful incumbent officer or any duly authorized deputy or an emergency interim successor higher in rank in order of succession exercises, or resumes the exercise of, the powers and discharge of the duties of the office, or until, where an actual vacancy exists, a successor is appointed to fill such vacancy or is elected and qualified as provided by law, provided however, that in the exercise of duties of the council, no emergency interim successor shall be authorized to vote until and unless there are not enough duly elected councilors present to conduct the business of the city under the provisions of the charter.
(Ord. No. 66-212, § 4, 10-31-66)
Sec. 2-54. - Recording and publication.
The name, address, and rank in order of succession of each duly authorized emergency interim successor shall be filed with the city clerk and each designation, replacement, or change in order of succession of an emergency interim successor shall become effective thereupon. The city clerk shall keep on file all such data regarding duly authorized emergency interim successors and it shall be open to public inspection.
(Ord. No. 66-212, § 5, 10-31-66)
Sec. 2-55. - Formalities of taking office.
At the time of their designation, emergency interim successors shall take such oath and do such other things, if any, as may be required to qualify them to exercise the powers and discharge the duties of the office to which they may succeed.
(Ord. No. 66-212, § 6, 10-31-66)
Sec. 2-56. - Change in appointments.
Any change in the emergency interim successor appointments authorized hereunder shall be furnished to the civil defense director by the city clerk of the City of Columbus.
(Ord. No. 66-212, § 7, 10-31-66)
Secs. 2-57—2-60. - Reserved.
