ARTICLE X. - IRON WORKS CONVENTION AND TRADE CENTER AUTHORITY[12]

Footnotes:
--- (12) ---
Editor's note— Ordinance No. 83-79, adopted Sept. 27, 1983, did not specifically amend this Code; however, at the request of the city, the substantive provisions of said ordinance are included herein. Designation of §§ 1—6 of said ordinance as Art. X of Ch. 2 is at the discretion of the editor.

Sec. 2-121. - Created; purpose.
There is hereby created, as a subordinate branch of the consolidated government, a Columbus Iron Works Convention and Trade Center Authority to supervise the manager and employees and the buildings and grounds and operations of the Columbus Iron Works Convention and Trade Center. Title to the real and personal property of the Columbus Iron Works Convention and Trade Center shall remain with the consolidated government of Columbus, Georgia; provided however, the authority may dispose of any personal property or moveable equipment obtained in the course of its operations as it determines to be appropriate upon recommendation of the executive director. The Council of Columbus, Georgia, may pass any ordinances which it deems necessary to regulate the duties and activities and policies of the authority.
(Ord. No. 83-79, § 1, 9-27-83; Ord. No. 22-024, § 1, 5-10-22)
Sec. 2-122. - Memberships; terms, compensation, qualifications, oath.
The authority shall consist of five members nominated by the mayor of Columbus, Georgia and appointed by the council, the members of which will serve for terms of three years, beginning with staggered term of one year for one of the original members, of two years for two of the original members, and of three years for two more of the original members. Members shall be eligible to succeed themselves once and they shall serve without compensation and at the pleasure of the Columbus Council. Each member shall serve until his successor is duly qualified, and former members who have served two successive terms shall be eligible for re-appointment to the authority after the expiration of a full three-year period during which such former members do not serve as members of the authority. Each member shall be a qualified voter in Columbus, Georgia; and, before assuming the duties of office, each member shall take the oath prescribed for board members serving the consolidated government.
(Ord. No. 83-79, § 2, 9-27-83)
Sec. 2-123. - Operational procedures.
A majority of the authority shall constitute a quorum for the transaction of business, and a majority vote of the entire membership shall be necessary to take any action. The authority shall hold regular meetings under such rules and at such times and places as it deems appropriate, and the authority shall keep a written record of its meetings and any other of its transactions.
(Ord. No. 83-79, § 3, 9-27-83)
Sec. 2-124. - Powers and duties.
The authority shall maintain the physical plant and conduct the operations of the Columbus Iron Works Convention and Trade Center so as to best realize its potential for commercial or cultural or civic or convention activities. The authority shall control the management and employees of the center in the manner hereinafter prescribed. Within the budgetary limitations prescribed by the Columbus Council, the authority shall have the power to enter into contracts for the purpose of improving or repairing the facilities of the center, the power to enter into contracts for the usage of the center, and the power to obtain goods or services connected with the upkeep or use of the center.
(Ord. No. 83-79, § 4, 9-27-83)
Sec. 2-125. - Manager and employees.
Management of the daily operations of the Columbus Iron Works Convention and Trade Center shall be vested in the manager who will be appointed by the authority and who shall serve at the pleasure of the authority. The manager, with the approval of the authority and within the budget approved by the Columbus Council, shall hire and supervise whatever supervisors and employees are necessary for conducting the affairs of the center; such supervisors and employees shall be in the merit system of the consolidated government and shall be governed by the same salaries and benefits and rights which accrue to merit system employees of the consolidated government.
(Ord. No. 83-79, § 5, 9-27-83)
Sec. 2-126. - Budget.
In each fiscal year the authority shall submit a budget to the mayor of Columbus, who shall forward this budget to the Columbus Council along with the separate budget which the mayor submits for the consolidated government. The council shall act on the separate budget submitted by the authority in the same manner that it acts upon the general budget of the consolidated government. The budget to cover the activities of the Columbus Iron Works Convention and Trade Center shall be designed to maximize the revenue producing potential of the center, but necessary supplemental funds from the general fund shall be provided in order to prevent the impairment of any of the functions of the center; any excess of revenue over expenses which the operation of the center generates will be placed in the general fund of the consolidated government.
(Ord. No. 83-79, § 6, 9-27-83)
Secs. 2-127—2-130. - Reserved.
