Chapter 6 - AUCTIONS, DAMAGED GOODS, REMOVAL, ETC., SALES[1]
Footnotes:
--- (1) ---
Editor's note— At the time this Code was published this chapter was titled "Auctions." The title was changed by the editors to include the provisions of Ord. No. 58-95 codified as Art. II, §§ 6-8—6-11.

ARTICLE I. - AUCTIONS[2]

Footnotes:
--- (2) ---
State Law reference— For provisions regulating jewelry, auction sales, see Ga. Code, § 84-1701 et seq.; for tax on auctioneers, see § 92-1901.

Sec. 6-1. - Auction of certain items—Hours of sale.
No person shall offer for sale or sell at public auction any diamonds or any other precious or semi-precious stones or imitations thereof, watches, clocks, jewelry, gold, silver or plated ware, china, glassware, oriental rugs or imitations or leather goods, or any other articles of similar nature between the hours of six o'clock p.m. and six o'clock a.m., nor at any time during the month of December prior to the next business day after the 25th day of December.
(Ord. of 9-18-28, § 1; Ord. of 5-30-50, § 1; Ord. No. 66-24, § 1, 2-14-66)
Editor's note— Ord. No. 66-24, § 1, amended § 6-1 to include oriental rugs or imitations in the items regulated.
Sec. 6-2. - Same—Bond, amount, approval; parties.
No person shall sell for himself or others any of such goods at public auction within the city until such person owning such goods or conducting such sale shall have executed and filed with the city clerk a bond with good and sufficient surety conditioned to pay to the city or any person or persons suing in the name of the city for his or their use, for loss or damage sustained by such person on account of dishonest or fraudulent conduct or false representations in the conduct of any auction sale of such goods. Such bond shall be in the sum of $5,000.00, shall be for the term of 24 months from its date, and the sureties shall be subject to the approval of the city clerk. Such bond shall provide that the principal or principals and the surety or sureties may be sued separately or together and that the surety or sureties may be sued without prior suit against the principal or principals.
(Ord. of 9-18-28, § 2; Ord. of 5-30-50, § 2)
Sec. 6-3. - License—For each sale; required; application information.
Before any person shall sell or offer to sell any merchandise of the types and kinds described in section 6-1 hereof at public auction, he shall first procure a license therefor, which shall be in addition to any other licenses [3] now or hereafter required for the conduct of any business in the city. Such person shall make application for such license to the marshal of the city, setting forth his name and residence or the partners' names and residences, or if a corporation, its name and the place where and date when incorporated, and if a foreign corporation the date when it qualified to do business in Georgia; the place where such auction sale is to be conducted; that such sale will be conducted in accordance with this chapter and the applicable laws of the State of Georgia; and a statement that the applicant agrees to and accepts the reservation by the city of the right and power to suspend or revoke such license as set forth in the following section hereof. Upon the receipt of such application and upon the payment by the applicant of all special or license taxes required by ordinances of this city, the marshal shall issue a license authorizing such person to conduct such an auction sale, with the right and power reserved in the city to suspend or revoke such license as provided in the following section hereof.
(Ord. of 5-30-50, § 3)
Footnotes:
--- (3) ---
Editor's note— For provisions relevant to occupational licenses, it will be necessary to examine the current general tax ordinance of the city, which ordinance is enacted each year and is not included in this Code.

Sec. 6-4. - Same—Suspension by marshal; revocation, hearing.
If the marshal of the city shall have reason to believe that any person conducting such an auction sale has violated or is violating wilfully and knowingly any of the provisions of this chapter or of any present or future law of the State of Georgia regulating the conduct of jewelry auctions, or if he is instructed so to do by the city commission, he shall forthwith suspend such license and shall immediately notify such person to cease and desist from conducting such auction sale until the next meeting of the city commission. The marshal shall report any such suspension to the next regular or adjourned meeting of the city commission, together with a summary of the facts upon which he based such suspension. The commission shall, at such next regular or adjourned meeting, consider such report of the marshal and shall give such person a full opportunity to present any facts or evidence bearing on such alleged violation. If the commission shall find that such person has violated or is violating, knowingly and wilfully, any provision of this chapter or of any law of the State of Georgia regulating jewelry auctions, it shall have, and does hereby specifically reserve, the right and power forthwith to revoke such license. If the commission shall not revoke such license at such meeting, the suspension of such license shall be at an end. The action of the marshal, in suspending any license as above provided, in good faith, shall not be grounds for any action for damages against the marshal nor against the city.
(Ord. of 5-30-50, § 4)
Sec. 6-5. - False advertising; applicability of section.
No person shall make, publish, disseminate, or place before the public, or cause directly or indirectly to be made, published, disseminated, or placed before the public in a newspaper, poster, sign or other publication, or over any radio station or loudspeaker, or by word of mouth, any advertisement or statement of any sort regarding such an auction sale, the merchandise to be sold therein under the terms and conditions of such sale, which advertisement or statement contains any assertion or representation which is untrue, misleading or deceptive. The provisions of this section are not intended to prohibit any newspaper, radio station or any other advertising agency from publishing or otherwise disseminating any advertisement of an auction sale when such newspaper, radio station or other advertising agency publishes or disseminates such advertisement in good faith and without knowledge that the same is untrue, misleading or deceptive.
(Ord. of 5-30-50, § 5)
Sec. 6-6. - Exempt sales.
The provisions of this chapter shall not apply to the following:
(a)
Judicial sales nor sales by executors or administrators.
(b)
Persons holding an interest in land upon which such auction sales are conducted where such interest in land is for a period of time of not less than one year.
(Ord. of 9-18-28, § 3; Ord. of 5-30-50, § 6; Ord. No. 76-36, § 1, 4-20-76)
Sec. 6-7. - Penalty.
Any person, for himself or as agent or employee of another, violating any provision of this chapter or conducting such an auction before the execution and approval of the bond prescribed herein, or without obtaining the license prescribed herein or where such license shall be suspended as provided herein, shall, upon conviction before the recorder, be punished as provided in section 1-8 of this Code.
(Ord. of 9-18-28, § 4; Ord. of 5-30-50, § 7)
ARTICLE II. - DAMAGED GOODS, REMOVAL, ETC., SALES[4]

Footnotes:
--- (4) ---
Editor's note— Art. II, §§ 6-8—6-11, is derived from an ordinance enacted October 6, 1958, and effective November 7, 1958. As said ordinance did not amend this Code it has been codified at the discretion of the editors.

Sec. 6-8. - Definitions.
For the purposes of this article, the following terms, phrases, words, and their derivations shall have the meaning given herein:
(a)
Fire and other altered goods sale is a sale held out in such a manner as to reasonably cause the public to believe that the sale will offer goods damaged or altered by fire, smoke, water or other means.
(b)
Going-out-of-business sale is a sale held in such a manner as to reasonably cause the public to believe that upon the disposal of the stock of goods on hand the business will cease and be discontinued, including but not limited to the following sales: Adjuster's; adjustment; alteration; assignee's; bankrupt; benefit of administrator's; benefit of creditors; benefit of trustees; building coming down; closing; creditor's committee; creditor's; end; executor's; final days; forced out; forced out of business; insolvents; last days; lease expires; liquidation; loss of lease; mortgage sale; receiver's; trustee's; quitting business.
(c)
Removal of business sale is a sale held out in such a manner as to reasonably cause the public to believe that the person conducting the sale will cease and discontinue business at the place of sale upon disposal of the stock of goods on hand and will then move to and resume business at a new location in the city or will then continue business from other existing locations in the city.
(Ord. No. 58-95, § 1)
Sec. 6-9. - Surrender of retail license, permit from city marshal, enumerated conditions requisite to conduct sales.
Any person or firm holding a retail license issued by the city under the general tax ordinance [5] of the city for a period of at least six months who desires to advertise and conduct any one of the types of sales defined in section 6-8 may surrender his current license to the city marshal and conduct such sale or sales at the place of business for which his current license is issued, and the following conditions and requirements shall apply to the conduct of any such sale or sales defined in section 6-8:
(a)
The right to conduct such sale or sales shall apply only to persons holding a current license under the general tax ordinance of the city for a period of at least six months and the permit granted hereunder shall expire at the end of the 45-day period allowed under subsection (c) of this section or any extension of such period granted under such subsection (c).
(b)
Such sale or sales may be extended and conducted only at the place of business licensed under the existing general tax ordinance, except that any fire or other altered goods sale may be conducted at any location in the city.
(c)
Such sale or sales may be advertised and conducted only for a period of 45 days following the surrender of the current license to the city marshal, but, upon application made to the city marshal the length of time for the advertisement and conduct of such sale or sales may be extended.
(d)
The right to advertise and conduct such sale or sales shall be personal and not transferable to any other person or firm except that upon the death of a person doing business under a license issued under the general tax ordinance, his or her heirs, administrators or executors shall have the right to conduct any sale or sales provided for in section 6-8.
(e)
After the completion of such sale the current license shall be cancelled by the city marshal except that the holder of any license conducting a fire or other altered goods sale shall have his license returned to him by the city marshal and the same shall be valid during the year for which it was originally issued.
(f)
No license fee shall be required for the issuance of the permit authorized hereunder but any person conducting such a sale or sales shall not be relieved from the payment of any gross receipts license requirements on the merchandise disposed of through such sale or sales.
(g)
Any person or firm making application for permission to conduct such sale shall furnish, as a part of said application, a complete and detailed inventory of the goods, wares and merchandise to be offered for sale as disclosed by applicant's records. Said inventory shall be attached to and become a part of the application and shall include all merchandise on back order to be delivered at a later date. All merchandise on back order, to be delivered at a later date, must have been ordered more than 90 days prior to the filing of the application.
(h)
No merchandise shall be stocked for sale except such merchandise as is on hand or back order as defined in the foregoing subsection of this section. Each item of merchandise stocked in such places of business in violation of the terms hereof, shall be presumed to be stocked for sale and each item thus stocked for sale shall be a separate violation of this article.
(Ord. No. 58-95, § 2; Ord. No. 60-1, § 1, 1-11-60; Ord. No. 64-22, 5-4-64)
Editor's note— Ord. No. 64-22 amended Ord. No. 58-95, § 2, from which § 6-9 was derived, to add a new subsection (8) which the editors have designated (h) above.
Footnotes:
--- (5) ---
Editor's note— The general tax ordinance embracing gross receipts tax, occupational license tax, etc., is not included in this Code.

Sec. 6-9.1. - Operation of similar business in same location forbidden for one year to seller under section 6-8.
Any person who has advertised and conducted such a sale as regulated hereunder, shall not be granted a license to conduct a similar type of business at the same location for a period of one year from the date of a sale conducted hereunder.
(Ord. No. 60-1, § 2, 1-11-60)
Editor's note— Ord. No. 60-1, § 1, enacted January 11, 1960, amended section 2 of Ord. No. 58-95 by adding paragraph 7, hereinabove set out as § 6-9(g); section 2 of Ord. No. 60-1 amended section 2 of Ord. No. 58-95 by adding paragraph 8, hereinabove set out as § 6-9.1.
Sec. 6-10. - Designated persons exempt from article provisions.
The provisions of this article shall not apply to or affect the following persons:
(a)
Persons acting pursuant to an order of process of a court of competent jurisdiction.
(b)
Persons acting in accordance with their powers and duties as public officials.
(c)
Duly licensed auctioneers, selling at auction.
(d)
Any publisher of a newspaper, magazine or other publication, who publishes in good faith, any advertisement, without knowledge of its false, deceptive or misleading character, or without knowledge that the provisions of this article have not been complied with.
(Ord. No. 58-95, § 3)
Sec. 6-11. - Penalty for violation of article provisions.
Any person or firm advertising or conducting any one or more of the type of sales provided for in section 6-8 hereof who does not comply with the provisions of this article shall, upon conviction of a violation hereof in the recorder's court of the city be punished as provided in section 1-8 of this Code.
(Ord. No. 58-95, § 4)
