ARTICLE XXII. - LIBERTY THEATRE AND CULTURAL ARTS CENTER ADVISORY BOARD

Sec. 2-295. - Board created.
The Liberty Theatre and Cultural Arts Center Advisory Board is hereby created to provide advice and programming support for the operation of the Liberty Theatre and Cultural Arts Center, which is a property of the consolidated government managed by the civic center director and staff. The Liberty Theatre and Cultural Affairs Center's primary purpose is to promote, preserve, enhance, and celebrate African American heritage, artistic expression and culture with a blend of live entertainment and artistic programming to include acting, directing, educating, playwriting, community programming and creative partnerships.
(Ord. No. 23-047, ยง 1, 7-25-23)
Sec. 2-296. - Operation generally.
The board shall consist of nine members. Members will be appointed by the council with two of the nine members being nominated at the recommendation of the director of the civic center. Terms of office shall be four years. One of the nine voting members will be a licensed CPA (Certified Public Accountant). The deputy city manager for operations shall be a non- voting member serving in an ex-officio capacity.
(Ord. No. 23-047, ยง 1, 7-25-23)
Sec. 2-297. - Board to serve in advisory capacity to director of civic center.
The Liberty Theatre and Cultural Arts Center Board shall serve in an advisory capacity to the director of the Columbus Civic Center for the consideration of policies pertaining to the Liberty Theatre and Cultural Arts Center and make recommendations for its operation and the advancement of the programs and facilities of the Liberty Theatre and Cultural Arts Center.
(Ord. No. 23-047, ยง 1, 7-25-23)
Sec. 2-298. - Board duties.
(a)
The board shall perform duties including, but not limited to:
(1)
The board shall meet at least bimonthly (six times per year) with the director of the civic center and shall elect a chairperson to preside at its meetings;
(2)
The board shall prepare minutes of its meetings with assistance from civic center personnel and shall transmit a copy of the same to the mayor, council, city manager and clerk of council;
(3)
The board shall provide written recommendations to the mayor, council, city manager and clerk of council when deemed necessary by the board concerning the operations and programs of the Liberty Theatre and Cultural Arts Center;
(4)
The board shall review financial statements of the Liberty Theatre and Cultural Arts Center with a representative from the finance department at least on an annual basis, and the board chair and civic center director or their designees shall report to council on the results of the review;
(5)
The board shall inspect and conduct site visits to the facilities of the Liberty Theatre and Cultural Arts Center at least quarterly, and the board chair and civic center director or their designees shall report quarterly to council on the results of the site visit;
(6)
The board shall review the policies and procedures which pertain to the operations of the Liberty Theatre and Cultural Arts Center at least once a year and make any recommendations for amendments as deemed necessary by the board;
(7)
Perform any other activities or duties as requested by the Columbus Council.
(b)
The seat of any member of the Liberty Theatre and Cultural Arts Center Advisory Board shall be declared vacant if such member misses three consecutive meetings. Any board vacancies shall be filled as provided in section 2-296 of this Code. Notwithstanding any other provision of this Code, any member of the Liberty Theatre and Cultural Arts Center Advisory Board appointed prior to September 1, 2023, who is already sworn in and serving on another board appointed by council may accept the position without resigning from the other board.
(Ord. No. 23-047, ยง 1, 7-25-23)
