ARTICLE XIX. - OFFICE OF CRIME PREVENTION

Sec. 2-251. - Mission and goal of the office of crime prevention.
The mission of office of crime prevention is to provide leadership on effective and cost-efficient ways to prevent and to reduce crime by identifying truly outstanding crime prevention programs that meet a high scientific standard of effectiveness and that are innovative initiatives that help stop crime before it starts.
The goal of the office of crime prevention is to enhance and improve the services offered by various departments and agencies with an aim toward reducing crime and to directly impact the mission of preventing crime. The office of crime prevention will work to streamline and coordinate crime prevention efforts in our city, and to ensure a high level of accountability to the citizens of Columbus, Georgia who passed the local option sales tax in the summer of 2008.
(Ord. No. 09-63, 12-15-09)
Sec. 2-252. - Office of crime prevention board.
Composition of the board. There shall be an office of crime prevention board that shall be made up of seven members, including the chair. The mayor shall appoint the chair of the crime prevention board from citizens at large to a three-year term and such member may be reappointed for an additional consecutive three-year term.
As a second member, the mayor shall appoint one member from law enforcement agencies, including the Muscogee County Sheriff's Office, the Muscogee County Marshal's Office, and the Columbus Police Department. The law enforcement representative shall serve a two-year term and may be reappointed for one additional consecutive two-year term.
As a third member, the mayor shall appoint a representative of the educational community in Muscogee County to include but not be limited to the Muscogee County School District, Columbus Technical College, and Columbus State University. The education representative shall serve a three-year term and may be reappointed for one additional consecutive three-year term.
The mayor shall appoint a Fort Benning liaison as a fourth member of the crime prevention board. Such member shall serve a three-year term and may be reappointed for one additional consecutive three-year term.
Columbus Council shall appoint the remaining three members of the crime prevention board from citizens at large. two of these three members shall be appointed from different senatorial districts serving the city in the state general assembly. These three members shall serve a term of three-years and may be reappointed for one additional consecutive pre-year term.
The board shall establish a regular meeting schedule, and generally shall meet at least once per month at a time and place designated by the board. One member selected by the board shall serve as secretary, and shall keep the regular minutes of meetings and transmit the same to the clerk of council.
(Ord. No. 09-63, 12-15-09)
Sec. 2-253. - Duties of the office of crime prevention board.
The office of crime prevention board shall recommend to the Columbus Council the process and method for awarding service agreements to various agencies for the delivery of crime prevention programs.
Once the process and method for awarding service agreements is established, the board shall review and select for recommendation to the city council those service agreements that meet the standards and criteria for funding.
(Ord. No. 09-63, 12-15-09)
Sec. 2-254. - Criteria for selection of vendors.
The board shall establish the criteria for selection of vendors eligible for funding from the Columbus Consolidated Government. The criteria shall include, but not be limited to, those elements that will help fulfill the mission of the office. The criteria may be revised from time to time. It is anticipated that, for the first several years of operation, funding will be confined to those agencies within the city or other governmental agencies.
Criteria shall include specific components which identify truly outstanding crime prevention programs that meet a high scientific standard of effectiveness and that are innovative initiatives that help stop crime before it starts. Programs selected for inclusion may fall anywhere along the services continuum from early prevention to aftercare programs for offenders. Some programs may target more than one issue, age group and population. The duration of programs selected may be multi-year programs, but shall not receive funding for more than two years without reapplication. The programs selected for inclusion should address one of the five areas of emphasis noted by the mayor's commission on crime prevention, namely, recreation, education, employment, drug prevention and intervention, and community policing.
(Ord. No. 09-63, 12-15-09)
Sec. 2-255. - Service agreements.
In order to obtain funds from the local option sales tax for crime prevention programs, an agency must enter into a written service agreement with the Columbus Consolidated Government.
Each service agreement will contain, at minimum, the following elements:
(1)
A completed application form (approved by the board and the Columbus Council) to be executed by the chief executive officer or chairperson of the agency.
(2)
A full description of the proposed program that will utilize the funds from the city.
(3)
A budget showing the proposed use of the funds from the city.
(4)
The agency's current fiscal year budget showing all other funding received by the agency requesting funds, to include all grants, endowments, and all other funding from all sources.
(5)
The goals of the program proposed by the agency and a timeline for meeting those goals.
(6)
The method by which the agency and the city will measure the attainment of the goals of the program.
(7)
An agreement to allow authorized representatives of the city access to the agency's financial records as they pertain to the service agreement program.
(8)
Any other element as authorized by the board or the Columbus Council.
(Ord. No. 09-63, 12-15-09)
Sec. 2-256. - Director of the office of crime prevention.
The office of crime prevention shall be established as an entity in the mayor's office. The operating budget for the office shall be a part of the budget for the mayor's office, and shall be shown as a separate section in the Columbus Consolidated Government's fiscal year budget to be approved by the Columbus Council during regular annual budget deliberations.
A position of director of the office of crime prevention shall be created by separate ordinance of the Columbus Council. This position will have oversight of city controlled funds used to support crime prevention activities within the community. The director will effectively build relationships with community organizations, businesses, and law enforcement to aggressively promote the office of crime prevention and its mission.
The director of the office of crime prevention will have no jurisdiction over any of the law enforcement agencies in the city. This office is for crime prevention, not law enforcement. The office will work with the various agencies as appropriate.
(Ord. No. 09-63, 12-15-09)
Sec. 2-257. - Major duties.
The major duties of the director of the office of crime prevention shall be as outlined in the official job description for the position.
At a minimum, the director shall develop and design the procedure to be used by groups seeking service agreements between agencies and the city for crime prevention programs, to include methods that will be used to measure program success and provide accountability of the programs that use city controlled funds.
The director will plan and coordinate crime prevention programs and activities in association with law enforcement agencies, other governmental agencies, community businesses and nonprofit organizations. The director will actively seek and evaluate crime prevention programs from other jurisdictions, and seek to implement programs as appropriate. The director will also identify, apply for and administer federal, state, foundation and other grant programs relating to crime prevention to further the goal of the city crime prevention program.
The director will develop and oversee the operating budget of the office of crime prevention, and will serve as liaison to the board of the office of crime prevention.
(Ord. No. 09-63, 12-15-09)
Secs. 2-258—2-270. - Reserved.
