Chapter 1 - GENERAL PROVISIONS

Sec. 1-1. - How Code designated and cited.
The ordinances embraced in the following chapters and sections shall constitute and be designated as the "Columbus, Georgia Code" and may be so cited.
(Ord. No. 78-65, § 3, 5-23-78)
Sec. 1-2. - Rules of construction.
(a)
City: The words "the city", "this city" or "city" shall be construed to include Columbus, Georgia.
(b)
County: The words "the county", "this county", or "county" shall be construed to include Columbus, Georgia.
(c)
State: The words "the state" or "this state" shall be construed to mean the State of Georgia.
(d)
City commission: Whenever the words "city commission" or "the commission" are used, they shall be construed to mean the Council of Columbus, Georgia; and wherever the words "councilman" or "councilmen" are used, the words "councilor" and "councilors" shall be substituted therefor.
(e)
Mayor: Whenever the word "mayor" is used, it shall be construed to mean the mayor of Columbus, Georgia.
(f)
City manager: Whenever the words "city manager" are used they shall be construed to mean the city manager of Columbus, Georgia.
(g)
City clerk: The words "city clerk" shall be construed to mean the Clerk of Council of Columbus, Georgia.
(h)
City treasurer: The words "city treasurer" shall be construed to mean the treasurer of Columbus, Georgia.
(i)
Recorder: The word "recorder" shall be construed to mean the recorder in the recorder's court of Columbus, Georgia.
(j)
Recorder's court: The words "recorder's court" and "mayor's court" shall refer to the recorder's court of Columbus, Georgia.
(k)
City attorney: The words "city attorney" shall be construed to mean the city attorney of Columbus, Georgia.
(Ord. No. 78-65, § 3, 5-23-78)
State Law reference— For state law as to definitions see Ga. Code, Title 102.
Sec. 1-3. - Catchlines of sections.
The catchlines of the several sections of this Code printed in boldface type are intended as mere catchwords to indicate the contents of the section and shall not be deemed or taken to be the titles of such sections, nor as any part of the section, nor shall they be so deemed when any of such sections, including the catchlines, are amended or re-enacted, unless expressly so provided.
Sec. 1-4. - Effect of repeal of ordinances.
The repeal of an ordinance shall not revive any ordinances in force before or at the time the ordinance repealed took effect.
The repeal of an ordinance shall not affect any punishment or penalty incurred before the repeal took effect, nor any suit, prosecution or proceeding pending at the time of the repeal, for an offense committed or cause of action arising under the ordinance repealed.
Sec. 1-5. - Severability of parts of code.
The sections, paragraphs, sentences, clauses and phrases of this Code are severable, and if any phrase, clause, sentence, paragraph or section of this Code shall be declared unconstitutional by the valid judgment or decree of any court of competent jurisdiction, such unconstitutionality shall not affect any of the remaining phrases, clauses, sentences, paragraphs and sections of this Code.
Sec. 1-6. - Amendments to Code.
All ordinances passed subsequent to this Code of Ordinances which amend, repeal or in any way affect this Code of Ordinances, may be numbered in accordance with the numbering system of this Code and printed for inclusion herein. In the case of repealed chapters, sections and subsections or any part thereof, by subsequent ordinances, such repealed portions may be excluded from the Code by omission from reprinted pages affected thereby. The subsequent ordinances as numbered and printed or omitted, in the case of repeal, shall be prima facie evidence of such subsequent ordinances until such time that this Code of Ordinances and subsequent ordinances numbered or omitted are re-adopted as a new Code of Ordinances by the city commission.
Amendments to any of the provisions of this Code shall be made by amending such provisions by specific reference to the section number of this Code in the following language:
"That section _______ of the Code of Ordinances of Columbus, Georgia, now reading as follows: _______, is hereby amended to read as follows: _______." The provisions shall then be set out in full as desired.
In the event a new section not heretofore existing in the Code, is to be added, the following language shall be used:
"That the Code of Ordinances of Columbus, Georgia is hereby amended by adding a section, to be numbered _______, which said section reads as follows: _______." The new section shall then be set out in full as desired.
All sections, articles, chapters or provisions desired to be repealed must be specifically repealed by section, article or chapter number, as the case may be.
Sec. 1-7. - Altering Code.
It shall be unlawful for any person in the city to change or amend by additions or deletions, any part or portion of this Code, or to insert or delete pages, or portions thereof, or to alter or tamper with such Code in any manner whatsoever, except by ordinance or resolution or other official act of the city commission, which will cause the law of the City of Columbus to be misrepresented thereby. Any person, firm or corporation violating this section shall be punished as provided in section 1-8 hereof.
Sec. 1-8. - General penalty; continuing violations; adjudging fines and imprisonments.
It shall be unlawful for any person to violate or fail to comply with any provision of this Code and where no specific penalty is provided therefor, the violation of any provision of this Code shall be punished by a fine not exceeding $1,000.00, or imprisonment for a term not exceeding 90 days, or by both such fine and imprisonment.
Whenever the recorder of the city shall, under any of the ordinances of the city, adjudge a person to pay a fine, or a fine and costs of prosecution, he shall also provide in such sentence a period of time for which such person shall be imprisoned in default of the payment of the same. Whenever the sentence shall be one of both fine and imprisonment, it shall also provide for an additional period of imprisonment in the city jail for which such person shall be held in default of payment of fine and costs. Such additional period shall commence to run from the expiration of the period of imprisonment fixed by the sentence, provided that in no case shall the imprisonment for failure to pay a fine, or fine and costs, together with any other imprisonment in the same case, exceed the period of 60 days.
Nothing in this section shall exempt a prisoner from being put at labor during the period of such additional imprisonment.
(Ord. No. 83-62, § 1, 7-26-83; Ord. No. 00-61, § 1, 6-20-00)
Sec. 1-9. - Judgments and sentences to run concurrently.
All judgments and sentences imposed and ordered by the recorder's court of the city shall run concurrently unless otherwise specifically provided by the recorder of such court in such judgments and sentences.
(Ord. No. 91-34, 5-21-91)
Sec. 1-10. - Use of prisoners for work on private property; personal use of public property by city employees and officers; penalty.
(a)
It shall be unlawful to use, or to allow the use, of prisoners for work on private property.
(b)
It shall be unlawful for employees and officers of Columbus, Georgia to use any property, equipment, vehicles or other things of value belonging to Columbus, Georgia for personal use.
(c)
It shall be unlawful for any employee or officer of Columbus, Georgia to allow the use of any property, equipment, vehicles or other things of value belonging to Columbus, Georgia for personal use of any person whomsoever.
(Ord. No. 71-306, §§ 1—4, 12-14-71; Ord. No. 78-65, § 1, 5-23-78)
