ARTICLE V - JUDICIAL BRANCH
Chapter 1. - Superior Court

Sec. 5-100. - Unaffected by Charter.
The Superior Court of Muscogee County shall continue its operations without interruption resulting from the adoption of this Charter and nothing herein shall be construed as affecting the status of said court.
Chapter 2. - Probate Court

Sec. 5-200. - Unaffected by Charter.
The Probate Court of Muscogee County shall continue its operations without interruption resulting from the adoption of this Charter and nothing herein shall be construed as affecting the status of said court.
Chapter 3. - State Court

Sec. 5-300. - Redesignation.
The City Court of Columbus, created by an Act of the General Assembly of Georgia, approved December 20, 1884 (Ga. L. 1884-85, p. 455), as now or hereafter amended, and which by the charter of the consolidated government of Columbus, Georgia, was named "City Court of Columbus, Georgia," shall be and is hereby designated as "State Court of Columbus, Georgia," and wherever the term "City Court of Columbus" shall appear in said Act and all amendatory Acts thereof, it shall be construed to mean the State Court of Columbus, Georgia.
Sec. 5-301. - Laws continued in force; terms construed.
Said court, as herein redesignated, shall continue its operation without interruption resulting from the adoption of this Charter and the Act creating said court approved December 20, 1884 (Ga. L. 1884-85, p. 455, et seq.), and all Acts amendatory thereof are hereby continued in unimpaired force and effect, except that as used in said Act and any amendments thereof, the terms "City of Columbus" and "County of Muscogee" or "Muscogee County" shall be construed to mean Columbus, Georgia.
Chapter 4. - Municipal Court

Sec. 5-400. - Redesignation.
On October 5, 1971, the municipal court of the City of Columbus, created by an Act of the General Assembly of Georgia, approved August 12, 1915 (Ga. L. 1915, p. 63), as now or hereafter amended, shall be redesignated as the municipal court of Columbus, Georgia, so that wherever the term "Municipal Court of Columbus," shall appear in said Act and all amendatory Acts thereof, it shall be construed to mean the municipal court of Columbus, Georgia.
Sec. 5-401. - Laws continued in force; terms construed.
Except as otherwise provided by this Charter, the municipal court as herein redesignated shall continue its operation without interruption resulting from the adoption of this Charter and said Act creating said court (Ga. L. 1915, p. 63) and all amendatory Acts thereof are hereby continued in unimpaired force and effect. As used in said Act and all amendatory Acts thereof the terms "City of Columbus" and "County of Muscogee" or "Muscogee County" shall be construed to mean Columbus, Georgia; and the term "commissioners of roads and revenues of Muscogee County, Georgia" shall be construed to mean the Council of Columbus, Georgia.
Sec. 5-402. - Jurisdiction.
(1)
The municipal court of Columbus, Georgia shall have jurisdiction throughout the territorial limits of the consolidated government, concurrent with the Superior Court, to try and dispose of all civil cases or proceedings, of whatever nature, whether arising ex contractu or ex delicto, under the common law or by statute, in which the principal sum claimed to be due or the value of the property in dispute does not exceed the statutory amounts as designated by the State of Georgia, and of which jurisdiction is not now vested by the Constitution and laws of the State of Georgia exclusively in other courts, which jurisdiction shall include, concurrent with the Superior Court, the right and power to try and determine finally all dispossessory warrant and eviction cases, where proper pleadings are filed and returns made to said municipal court of Columbus, Georgia."
(2)
The criminal jurisdiction of the municipal court of Columbus, Georgia, shall remain as authorized by law prior to the effective date of this Charter.
(Ref. of 11-8-22)
Chapter 5. - Juvenile Court

Sec. 5-500. - Unaffected by Charter; laws continued in force.
On the effective date of this Charter, the juvenile court of Muscogee County shall continue its operations without interruption resulting from the adoption of this Charter. The provisions of an Act of the General Assembly of Georgia, approved February 19, 1951 (Ga. L. 1951, p. 291), as amended, or as may hereafter be amended, or any future act of the General Assembly of Georgia relating to the procedures, powers and jurisdiction of juvenile courts shall apply to the juvenile court of Columbus, Georgia to the extent not in conflict with this Charter. The term "county" as used in said Act, or as may be used in any future such act, shall be construed to include Columbus, Georgia.
Chapter 6. - Recorder's Court

Sec. 5-600. - Redesignation; laws continued in force.
On October 5, 1971, the Mayor's court of the City of Columbus established pursuant to an Act of the General Assembly approved November 29, 1890 (Ga. L. 1890-1691, Vol. Two, p. 469), as amended, and continued as the police court of said city by an Act of the General Assembly of Georgia approved August 5, 1921, (Ga. L. 1921, p. 823), as amended, shall be redesignated as the recorder's court of Columbus, Georgia so that wherever the term "Mayor's Court" appears in said Act and all amendatory Acts thereof, it shall be construed to mean the recorder's court of Columbus, Georgia. Said court, as herein renamed shall continue its operation without interruption resulting from the adoption of the Charter and except as otherwise provided by this Charter, those provisions of the Act continuing said court (Ga. L. 1921, p. 823), as now or hereafter amended, are hereby continued in unimpaired force and effect. As used in the provisions of said Act continuing said court, the term "Mayor's Court of the City of Columbus" shall be construed to mean the recorder's court of Columbus, Georgia; the term "City Commission" shall mean the Council of Columbus, Georgia; the term "Mayor and council" shall mean Council of Columbus, Georgia; and the term "commissioners" shall mean Council of Columbus, Georgia; and the term "Mayor" shall mean Mayor of Columbus, Georgia.
Sec. 5-601. - Jurisdiction.
The recorder's court shall continue with all the rights, authority, power and jurisdiction now possessed under all present laws applicable to said court; and in addition thereto, the recorder's court shall be and is hereby empowered and authorized and given jurisdiction to accept pleas of guilty or nolo contendere and to impose punishment and penalties provided by laws of the State of Georgia, but not greater than the penalties and punishment the recorder's court may now or hereafter be authorized to impose for violations of ordinances, in cases involving defendants charged with violating any and all criminal laws of the State of Georgia relating to traffic upon the public roads, streets and highways of this state; violations of the laws of the State of Georgia contained in Chapter 6 of Title 40 of the O.C.G.A., as now amended and as hereafter amended by the State of Georgia; violations of the laws of the State of Georgia requiring the registration and licensing of motor vehicles as required by Chapter 2 of Title 40 of the O.C.G.A., as now amended and as hereafter amended by the State of Georgia; and violations of laws of the State of Georgia relating to motor vehicle drivers' licenses as contained in Chapter 5 of Title 40 of the O.C.G.A., as now amended and as hereafter amended by the State of Georgia and all other state laws relating to motor vehicle drivers' licenses; where the penalty for these offenses does not exceed that of the grade of misdemeanors, where a preliminary hearing is waived in writing by the accused and a plea of guilty or nolo contendere is entered by the accused in writing. The jurisdiction and powers of the recorder's court shall extend throughout the territory of the consolidated government.
Sec. 5-602. - Appeal bond; trial de novo.
Any person or persons found guilty by the recorder upon a plea of not guilty, when charged in violation of an ordinance of the consolidated government, shall have the right of appeal to the State Court of Muscogee County from the recorder's court in the same manner and under the same procedure as now prescribed by law for such appeals.
(HB 415, ยง 3, 4-24-13)
Sec. 5-603. - Appointment of recorders and recorders pro tem.
[a]
On October 5, 1971, any incumbent recorders and recorders pro tem who were serving as recorders or recorders pro tem in the former City of Columbus shall continue to serve in that office for a term of four (4) years. Any incumbent recorders or recorders pro tem shall be eligible for reappointment by the Council of the consolidated government upon the expiration of such term. The Council shall be authorized to appoint such recorders or recorders pro tem for a term of four (4) years, as they deem necessary to efficiently conduct the duties of the recorder's court.
(b)
Any Recorder or Recorders Pro Tem may be removed by the Council of the Consolidated Government for any of the reasons set forth in O.C.G.A. Section 36-32-2.1 (b)(1) and in accordance with the procedures set forth in paragraphs (c), (d) and (e) of the same Code Section.
(Ref. of 11-8-22)
Sec. 5-604. - Term; qualification; compensation.
The term of office of recorders and recorders pro tem shall be four (4) years and until a successor is appointed and qualified unless such Recorder or recorder pro tem is removed in accordance with the provisions of Section 5-603(b) above. A recorder or recorder pro tem shall be not less than thirty (30) years of age, an active member of the State Bar of Georgia in good standing, a resident of the territory of the consolidated government, and shall have practiced law for a period of not less than five (5) years prior to the commencement of the duties of office. Compensation of the recorders and recorders pro tem shall be fixed by the Council.
(Ref. of 11-8-22)
Sec. 5-605. - Rules; procedures; personnel.
The Council shall, by ordinance, fix rules and regulations governing the time, place, and number of sessions of the court. The court shall have a clerk and one (1) or more clerks pro tempore who shall prepare the court dockets, maintain all court records, and serve as the court's Chief Administrative Officer. The general intent of this court is to establish cause and perform other statutory duties as provided by Georgia law.
(Ref. of 11-8-22)
Sec. 5-606. - [Department of Transportation/METRA to have jurisdiction to collect fines from uncontested parking citations.]
Notwithstanding the foregoing provisions contained in this Chapter, the Department of Transportation/METRA shall have jurisdiction to collect fines from uncontested parking citations for violations of ordinances regulating parking in Columbus, Georgia.
(Ord. No. 00-86, ยง 1, 9-12-00)
