Chapter 42 - TAXATION[1]
Footnotes:
--- (1) ---
State Law reference— Taxation power of municipal and county governments, Ga. Const. art. IX, § IX, ¶ I(a), (b)(2); revenue and taxation, O.C.G.A. title 48; ad valorem taxation of property, O.C.G.A. § 48-5-1 et seq.; municipal taxation, O.C.G.A. § 48-5-350 et seq.

ARTICLE I. - IN GENERAL

Secs. 42-1—42-18. - Reserved.
ARTICLE II. - AD VALOREM TAXES

Sec. 42-19. - Rate of levy.
There is hereby set and levied to meet the ordinary current expenses of the city an annual ad valorem tax upon all real and personal property within the city, and there is hereby set and levied for the payment of principal and interest on general obligation bonds an annual ad valorem tax upon all real and personal property within the city. Such levies shall be shown separately on all tax bills. The tax millage shall be set by resolution from year to year.
(Code 1992, § 4-101(1))
Sec. 42-20. - Assessment and fair market value.
All property subject to municipal ad valorem taxation shall be assessed at 40 percent of its fair market value. The basis for fair market value shall be 100 percent of the fair market value determined for the property by the county for city ad valorem tax purposes.
(Code 1992, § 4-101(2))
Sec. 42-21. - Appeal of assessment.
Any taxpayer may appeal from an assessment by the county board of tax assessors to the county board of equalization as to matters of taxability, uniformity of assessment, and value, and the taxpayer may appeal to the county superior court from a decision of the county board of equalization. All such appeals shall be made in the manner provided in O.C.G.A. § 48-5-29.
(Code 1992, § 4-101(3))
Sec. 42-22. - When taxes are due and payable.
Ad valorem taxes shall become due on December 20 each year and shall be deemed delinquent if not paid by said due date. Tax bills showing the assessed valuations, amount of taxes due, tax due dates, and information as to delinquency dates and penalties shall be sent to all taxpayers at least 30 days prior to the due date, but failure to send a tax bill shall not invalidate any tax. Delinquent taxes shall bear interest at seven percent per annum from the due date.
(Code 1992, § 4-101(4))
Sec. 42-23. - Failure to pay tax.
The city shall forthwith issue an execution against any person who has defaulted in the payment of any ad valorem tax to be paid. The execution thus issued shall be a lien on all the property of such person, both real and personal, and shall be placed in the hands of the city officer responsible for collection by levy and sale.
(Code 1992, § 4-101(5))
Sec. 42-24. - Against whom charged.
Taxes are to be charged against the owner of the property, if known, or against the specific property itself if the owner is not known. Life tenants and those who enjoy the use of the property are chargeable with the tax thereon.
(Code 1992, § 4-101(6))
Secs. 42-25—42-41. - Reserved.
ARTICLE III. - GROSS DIRECT PREMIUMS TAX[2]

Footnotes:
--- (2) ---
State Law reference— Local tax on life insurance companies, O.C.G.A. § 33-8-8.1; local tax on other than life insurance companies, O.C.G.A. § 33-8-8.2.

Sec. 42-42. - Rate of levy on life, accident, and sickness insurers.
There is hereby set and levied upon each company authorized to write life, accident, and sickness insurance and which is doing business within the municipal corporate limits an annual tax equal to one percent of the annual gross direct premiums received during the preceding calendar year from policies insuring persons residing within the corporate limits of the city.
(Code 1992, § 4-102(1))
Sec. 42-43. - Rate of levy on all other insurers.
There is hereby set and levied upon each insurance company not taxed under the provisions of section 42-42 and which is doing business within the municipal corporate limits, an annual tax equal to 2.5 percent of the annual gross direct premiums received during the preceding calendar year in accordance with O.C.G.A. § 33-8-8.2. The term "gross direct premiums" as used in this section means gross direct premiums as used in O.C.G.A. § 33-8-8.2(a). The tax levied by this subsection is in addition to any license fee imposed by this Code.
(Code 1992, § 4-102(2))
Sec. 42-44. - Due date and required report.
The gross direct premiums tax levied herein shall be due and payable upon the effective date of the ordinance from which this article is derived and then on January 1 of each calendar year. Payment shall be made to the city clerk and shall be accompanied by a report showing the names and addresses of the agents representing the insurance company in the city, the classes of insurance written, the premiums received for each class, and such other reasonable information as may be required. The required report shall be made on forms prescribed by the city clerk and made out over affidavit of an officer of the company. Payments shall be deemed delinquent if not received within 45 days from the due date.
(Code 1992, § 4-102(3))
Sec. 42-45. - False information.
It is hereby declared to be a violation of this article for any person, firm, corporation, or agents thereof to knowingly give false or incomplete information on any report herein required to be filed.
(Code 1992, § 4-102(4))
Sec. 42-46. - Confidentiality of information.
All reports required to be filed under this article shall be confidential and the information contained therein shall be used solely by the officers of the city responsible for the administration of this article.
(Code 1992, § 4-102(5))
Sec. 42-47. - Enforcement.
The taxes levied by this article may be enforced by execution in the same manner as other taxes of the city.
(Code 1992, § 4-102(6))
Secs. 42-48—42-72. - Reserved.
ARTICLE IV. - LOCAL OPTION INCOME TAX

Sec. 42-73. - Authorization to levy.
The city council is authorized to levy a local option income tax as necessary.
(Code 1992, § 4-106)
Secs. 42-74—42-104. - Reserved.
ARTICLE V. - LOCAL OPTION SALES TAX

Sec. 42-105. - Authorization to levy.
The city council is authorized to levy a local option sales tax as necessary.
(Code 1992, § 4-105)
Secs. 42-106—42-123. - Reserved.
ARTICLE VI. - MUNICIPAL TAX SALES

Sec. 42-124. - Time, place, and manner of sale.
The time, place, and manner of the sale of property, both real and personal, for taxes due the city shall be the same as that provided by law for sheriffs' sales for state and county taxes.
(Code 1992, § 4-107(1))
Sec. 42-125. - Sale by parcels.
When not impracticable, all property sold for municipal taxes shall be so offered for sale that the smallest amount that will bring the amount of taxes and costs shall alone be sold.
(Code 1992, § 4-107(2))
Sec. 42-126. - Purchase by city.
The city treasurer shall attend all sales of property for taxes due the city and in the event no one person bids for the property put up to be sold as much as the tax due thereon, the city treasurer shall place a bid for such property for the city and, if the bid is accepted, take custody of the deed for the city. No property so purchased by the city shall ever be sold by the city except at a public sale thereof to the highest bidder.
(Code 1992, § 4-107(3))
Sec. 42-127. - Redemption of property sold for taxes.
Any person whose property is sold in obedience to an execution issued for the collection of municipal taxes shall have such rights of redemption of said property as are set forth in O.C.G.A. § 48-4-40, and any other provisions of law not inconsistent therewith.
(Code 1992, § 4-107(4))
Secs. 42-128—42-146. - Reserved.
ARTICLE VII. - OCCUPATIONAL TAXES

Sec. 42-147. - Professionals as classified in O.C.G.A. § 48-13-9.
Practitioners of professions as described in O.C.G.A. § 48-13-9(b)(1) through (31) shall elect as their entire occupation tax one of the following:
(1)
A flat fee to be determined by the city council from time to time; or
(2)
$300.00 per professional, plus an occupational tax fee based on number of employees in accordance with schedules established by the city from time to time.
(Code 1992, § 32-204)
State Law reference— Business and occupational taxes, O.C.G.A. § 48-13-5 et seq.
Secs. 42-148—42-177. - Reserved.
ARTICLE VIII. - SPECIAL CITY INFRASTRUCTURE AND SERVICES IMPROVEMENT TAX DISTRICT

Sec. 42-178. - Constitutional authority.
The city council is authorized by Ga. Const. art. 9, § 2, ¶ VI to create special districts for the provision of local government services within such districts, and to levy and collect fees, assessments, and taxes within such district to pay, wholly or partially, the cost of providing such services therein.
(Ord. of 4-8-2013, § 41-101)
Sec. 42-179. - Declaration of policy and purpose.
The purpose of this article is to provide citizens of the city with a procedure for providing infrastructure for development in areas where infrastructure does not exist or is inadequate and to provide a mechanism for providing funding for municipal services to those areas. The ordinance from which this article is derived is adopted in order to effect the creation of special tax districts to pay for such infrastructure and services.
(Ord. of 4-8-2013, § 41-102)
Sec. 42-180. - Definitions.
The following words, terms and phrases, when used in this article, shall have the meanings ascribed to them in this section, except where the context clearly indicates a different meaning:
Infrastructure means roads and other transportation structures and stormwater management facilities constructed in conjunction therewith; water lines lying within public rights-of-way or easements dedicated to the public; and sewerage collection lines lying within public rights-of-way or easements dedicated to the public. The term "infrastructure" may also mean other public facilities or buildings, including, but not limited to, fire or police stations or libraries.
Property owner means all persons holding fee simple title according to the real estate records of the county to real property within a proposed special tax district at the time the petition for the creation of said district is submitted as provided herein. For the purpose of petitioning the city council for the creation of a special tax district, the property owner shall have one vote per acre or part of an acre of parcels within a particular proposed special tax district. The acreage of parcels shall be determined by the records of the county tax assessor. The term "property owner" specifically excludes tenants in possession of property within proposed areas of the special tax district. The term "property owner" shall include the developer of any subdivision otherwise not covered by the city's zoning ordinance who has fee simple title to an existing or proposed road and has promised to dedicate said road to the city.
Special tax district. A special tax district is authorized pursuant to Ga. Const. art. 9, § 2, ¶ VI. Special tax districts may be created in order for infrastructure or services to be provided in areas where service is inadequate or does not exist.
(Ord. of 4-8-2013, § 41-103)
Sec. 42-181. - Special tax districts created; register; responsibility for costs.
(a)
New special tax districts may be created upon the submission of a proper petition by the property owner and the acceptance of the petition by resolution of the city council. Each special tax district so created shall be assigned a number and be designated by recorded plats showing each lot therein.
(b)
A register of special tax districts shall be maintained in the office of the city administrator or his designee and the office of the county tax commissioner. Such registers shall be available to the public for inspection upon reasonable notice to either of these offices.
(Ord. of 4-8-2013, § 41-104)
Sec. 42-182. - Collection and responsibility for administration.
The office of the city administrator shall be responsible for the timely collection of taxes, fees, and assessments assessed to each special tax district and shall ensure that such funds are expended or disbursed as provided for in this article and the resolution establishing each special tax district.
(Ord. of 4-8-2013, § 41-105)
Sec. 42-183. - Liens created.
In addition to any other rights of collection for late or unpaid charges, the city shall have all rights available under the laws of the state for the assessment and creation of a lien upon the property of the owner receiving the service provided, together with all rights of execution, levy, foreclosure, and sale.
(Ord. of 4-8-2013, § 41-106)
Sec. 42-184. - Establishment of special tax district over existing or new development.
(a)
Any property owner in any area of the city may present a request for the creation of a special tax district to the city administrator. The request shall designate the boundaries for a special tax district which shall serve the property owner presenting the request and other property owners within the geographical area. The request shall include a plat showing the proposed special tax district. The office of the city administrator shall then provide a petition to be circulated by the presenter of the request among the property owners in the proposed district. Owners of at least 75 percent of the property within the proposed district must sign the petition for the petition to be presented to the city council. If the proposed special tax district encompasses more than one subdivision as shown by plats filed in the public land records of the county, owners of 75 percent of the property within the special tax district in each and all of the included subdivisions must sign the petition. Unless owners of 100 percent of the property have signed the petition, a public hearing shall be held by the city council after having advertised one time in the official legal organ of the county, and a sign shall be posted in the proposed special tax district giving notice of the hearing at least ten days before the public hearing.
(b)
The petition for the creation of the proposed special tax district must be returned to the city administrator within 90 days of the presentment of the request. The applicant shall utilize Form No. 4-8-2013 on file with the city administrator. The city administrator shall verify the signatures on the petition and that the requisite number of property owners has signed said petition. Said petition must be accompanied by a certificate of title or other document that shows the public's interest in the right-of-way of a road or easements for construction and maintenance of infrastructure or a necessary letter of commitment from the owner to convey the road or necessary easements to the city any payment pursuant to this Code.
(c)
By signing the petition for the creation of a new special tax district, all petitioners within a proposed special tax district shall be deemed to have actual or constructive notice of this article and all the provisions contained herein, as well as the request and petition for a special tax district.
(d)
All successors in interest to the property owners within a certain district at the time of the creation of said special tax district shall be deemed to have constructive notice of this article and the existing special tax district or request wherein the property is located due to the existence of public records containing such information.
(e)
Upon receipt of a petition as provided herein and after a public hearing, if one is required, the city council shall take under consideration the establishment of the requested special tax district. The city council, in its sole discretion, may vote to create one or more of such districts based upon all of the evidence presented to the city council. Nothing contained herein shall create any right by any property owner to the creation of such districts. The creation of one or more of such districts shall not generate a precedent or obligation on the city council to approve future requests for a special tax district; rather, each proposed district shall be considered based on the totality of the evidence regarding each respective district. The decision of the city council, in the exercise of their discretion, shall be final.
(f)
The decision of the city council to create special tax districts shall be evidenced by resolutions adopted at a regular or special meeting of the city council.
(g)
At the time of petition, no parcels in a proposed special tax district may be exempt or owned by entities entitled to a real property tax exemption. If after the establishment of a special tax district the greater of 50 acres or ten percent of the total acreage of the district shall become exempt, the special tax district shall be dissolved. In making this determination, the areas of roads, sidewalks, trailways, utility easements, and parcels on which there are water or wastewater treatment or municipal facilities owned by the city shall not be considered.
(h)
Any special tax district established hereunder shall be dissolved 20 years from the date established.
(i)
The taxes levied in any special tax district shall not exceed an additional three mills above the millage rate levied on properties outside of the district and not within any other special tax district.
(j)
No property may be included in a special tax district if property taxes are outstanding or on which any tax liens exist.
(k)
Additional property may be added to an existing special tax district under the same process and requirement for creation of the special tax district.
(Ord. of 4-8-2013, § 41-108)
Sec. 42-185. - Payments.
The resolution adopted by the city council establishing a special tax district may provide that beginning in the first, second or third year, and continuing for a period of 14 years, the city shall pay up to 75 percent of the ad valorem property taxes collected in the special tax district to allow recoupment of the cost of infrastructure dedicated to the city which lies within easements or rights-of-way dedicated to the city. In the petition, the petitioner shall set forth whether the recoupment period shall begin in the first, second or third year. The petitioner or his successors in interest shall certify to the city in writing under oath, the cost of such infrastructure and the fact of dedication. So long as costs of dedicated infrastructure remain unreimbursed, the petitioner or his successors may seek recoupment during the entire 14-year period. The petitioner shall submit his recoupment application on a form provided by the city. The remaining funds collected shall be used for infrastructure or services provided by the city in the area of the special tax district.
(Ord. of 4-8-2013, § 41-109)
Sec. 42-186. - Federal, state laws to prevail.
If any provision of this article is in conflict with any state or federal law, or with any rule, regulation, or any order of any agency of the state or federal agency having jurisdiction of the subject matter of this article, it is hereby deemed to the intention of the city council that the state or federal law or rule, regulation, or order shall prevail such that the remaining portion of this article shall be deemed to be of full force or effect.
(Ord. of 4-8-2013, § 41-110)
