ARTICLE VIII. - OFF-STREET AUTOMOBILE AND VEHICLE PARKING AND LOADING

Section 1. - General Intent and Application.
It is the intent of these requirements that adequate parking and loading facilities be provided off the street for each use of land within the jurisdiction of this ordinance. Requirements are intended to be based on the demand created by each use. These requirements shall apply to all uses in all districts.
Section 2. - Control (via Ownership or Lease).
The control of land upon which the off-street parking is provided shall be the same as the ownership of land on which the principal use is located, unless a legally binding easement or other agreement that is attached to the deed can be provided to assure the County that adequate parking will be provided for the principal use.
Section 3. - Size and Access.
Each off-street parking space shall have an area of not less than 180 square feet exclusive of access drives or aisles and be in usual shape and condition. There shall be adequate ingress and egress to all parking spaces. There shall be provided an access drive leading to the parking or loading spaces. Such access drive shall not be less than 10 feet in width.
Section 4. - Number of Parking Spaces Required.
The number of off-street parking spaces required are set forth in the following table. Where the of the premises is not specifically mentioned, requirements for similar uses shall apply.
EXPAND
Uses Required Parking Spaces
Automatic Laundry 1 for each 3 laundry machines
Automobile sales and service garage 1 for each 400 square feet of floor area
Banks/Professional Offices 1 for each 300 square feet of floor area
Bowling Alleys 1 for each alley
Churches, temples, or places of worship, funeral homes, schools, public buildings, theaters, auditoriums, areas and places of assembly, private clubs, community buildings, social halls, and lodges 1 for each 5 seats based on maximum seating capacity in principal assembly, or 1 for each 17 classroom seats, whichever is greater
Country Clubs, golf clubs, gun clubs, tennis clubs, and organizations designed to provide outdoor sporting or recreational activities. 1 for each five members
Dwellings—single-family 2 per dwelling unit
Banks, business or professional offices One (1) for each 400 sq. Ft. of gross floor area
Dwellings—multiple family 1.5 per dwelling unit
Food store, supermarket 1 for each 200 sq. ft. of floor area
Commercial Uses not otherwise defined 1 for each 200 sq. ft. of floor area
Hospitals, sanitariums, and nursing homes 1 for each 6 patient beds plus 1 for each 2 employees
Funeral homes, mortuaries (those without seating) 20 for each viewing parlor
Hotels and Motels 1 for each guest room plus 1 for each 3 employees
Manufacturing, industrial plant, research laboratory, bottling plants 1 for each 2 employees on largest shift
Manufacturing and industrial concerns with retail business on premises 1 for each 2 employees on largest shift plus 1 for each 150 sq. ft. devoted to sales or service
Medical offices 4 for each doctor plus 1 for each 2 employees
Offices not providing customer service One (1) for each four employees or for each 800 sq. ft. of gross floor area, whichever is greater.
Restaurants, beer parlors, night clubs 1 for each 2 seats
Rooming houses, boarding houses, and dormitories 1 for each 2 beds
Service station 1 for each pump or 1 for each 200 sq. ft. of floor area, whichever is greater
Stadiums, sports arenas, auditoriums, (including school auditoriums) and other of public assembly, and clubs assembly and lodges having no sleeping quarters and not containing fixed seats. One (1) for each four (4) seats and/or one (1) for each 100 sq. ft. of gross floor area and not containing fixed seats
Wholesale and warehouse concerns 1 for each 2 employees, plus 1 for each company vehicle plus 1 for each 150 sq. ft. of retail sales or service
  Section 5. - Location of Off-Street Parking Areas.
5.1.
The parking spaces for all dwellings shall be located on the same lot as the residence.
5.2.
Parking spaces shall be provided on the same lot with the main building of the principal use.
5.3.
Two or more principal uses may utilize a common area in order to comply with off-street parking requirements, provided that the number of spaces required for each use is met.
5.4.
Portions of the public right-of-way on minor streets may be allowed for maneuvering incidental to parking when determining parking area requirements for individual uses.
5.5.
On collector streets, major streets, and controlled access highways, parking facilities shall provide space outside the public right-of-way for maneuvering incidental to parking. This aisle on drive system shall be separated from the road by a 10-foot landscaped buffer.
Section 6. - Off-Street Loading and Unloading Requirements.
Areas suitable for loading and unloading motor vehicles in off-street locations shall hereafter be required at the time of the initial construction of any building or structure used or arranged to be used for commercial, industrial, governmental, or multi-family residential purposes. Such off-street loading areas shall have access to a public alley or street and shall be provided and maintained in accordance with the following requirements, the computation of which shall not be included in the off-street parking requirements.
6.1.
Amount of Area Required for Each Loading Space. Each off-street loading and unloading space required by the provisions of this ordinance shall be at least ten (10) feet wide, fifty (50) feet long and fourteen (14) feet high. Such space shall be clear and free of obstructions at all times.
6.2.
Location of Off-Street Loading Areas. Required off-street loading and unloading areas shall in all cases be located on the same lot or parcel of land as the structure they are intended to serve. In no case shall the required off-street loading space be considered as part of the area provided to satisfy off-street parking requirements as listed herein.
6.3.
Adequacy of Loading Area. All uses, whether specified in this ordinance or not, shall provide off-street loading areas sufficient for their requirements. Such space shall be adequate so that no vehicle loading or unloading in connection with normal operations shall stand in or project into a public street walk, alley or way.
Section 7. - Number of Off-Street Loading Spaces.
7.1.
Retail business uses with from 4,000 to 25,000 square feet in total floor area: one (1) space.
7.2.
Wholesale, industrial, governmental and institutional uses, including public assembly places, hospitals, and educational institutions shall provide one (1) space for the first 25,000 square feet of total floor area, and two (2) spaces for the first 49,999 square feet of total floor area. For anything in excess of 25,000 square feet, such uses shall provide loading spaces according to the following schedule:
A.
25,000—49,999 square feet: 2 spaces.
B.
50,000—99,000 square feet: 3 spaces.
C.
100,000—199,999 square feet; 4 spaces.
D.
200,000—350,000 square feet; 5 spaces.
E.
For each 50,000 square feet above 199,999 or fraction thereof, 1 additional space shall be provided.
7.3.
Multi-family Dwellings:
A.
Multi-family residences with less than ten (10) dwelling units: None.
B.
Multi-family residence with 10 to 30 dwelling units: one (1) space.
C.
Multi-family residences with more than thirty (30) dwelling units: one (1) space for each thirty (30) dwelling units or fraction thereof.
