ARTICLE XII. - AMENDMENTS TO THE ZONING ORDINANCE

Section 1. - Zoning Amendment Petition.
1.1.
The Planning Commission will review Zoning Amendment applications and make a recommendation to the County Commission to approve or disapprove the petition.
1.2.
The County Commission may amend the regulations, restrictions, boundaries, or any provision of this ordinance.
1.3.
Any member of the County Commission may introduce an amendment, and any official, board, or other person may present a petition to the County Commission requesting an amendment to this Ordinance.
Section 2. - Zoning Amendment Petition Application.
2.1.
Application for an amendment shall be submitted to the Building and Zoning Administrator at least 30 days prior to the meeting at which it will be considered.
2.2.
The County Commission, Planning Commission, and their designated representatives shall have the authority to conduct independent inquiries to verify the representations made on the site map. The site map shall be kept on file in the offices of the Planning Commission, where it will be made available for public examination.
Section 3. - Planning Commission, Review of Zoning Amendment.
3.1.
No amendment shall be considered by the County Commission until it is first submitted to and approved or disapproved by the Planning Commission.
3.2.
If the proposed amendment is approved or disapproved by the Planning Commission, it shall require the favorable vote of a majority of the entire membership of the County Commission to make the amendment effective.
3.3.
The amendment shall be deemed approved if the Planning Commission fails to approve or disapprove within thirty days of the public hearing at which the amendment is first heard.
Section 4. - Public Hearing and Public Notice on Proposed Amendment or Action.
4.1.
All amendments to the McIntosh County Zoning Ordinance not initiated by the McIntosh County Board of Commissioners require a minimum of one (1) public hearing. Additional public hearings may be held, if deemed appropriate by the local governing authority.
4.2.
Prior to scheduling the required public hearing applicants shall first complete all submission requirements contained in the McIntosh County Zoning Ordinance. (e.g., forms, fees, deeds, maps, etc.) or as otherwise required by the Building and Zoning Administrator, Planning Commission, or Board of Commissioners.
4.3.
The McIntosh County Planning Commission shall then notify the applicant of the date, time, and place of the required public hearings.
4.4.
At least 15, but not more than 45 days prior to the scheduled public hearing the McIntosh County Planning Commission shall publish in the newspaper of general circulation, notice of the date, time, place, and purpose of the public hearing.
4.5.
If a zoning amendment is for the rezoning of property, then the public notice shall also include: (1) the location of the property; (2) the present zoning classification of the property; and (3) the proposed zoning of the property.
4.6.
Not less than 15 days prior to the date of the public hearing the McIntosh County Planning Commission shall post in a conspicuous location on the property in question a sign which shall contain information regarding the proposed rezoning; specifically, the date, time, place, and purpose of the public hearing.
4.7.
Any site map required by this ordinance shall be made available for public review not less than 15 days prior to the date of the public hearing. Such site map will be available for public review at the office of the Building and Zoning Administrator during regular business hours.
4.8.
No official action shall be taken on the proposed amendment by McIntosh County Planning Commission or Board of Commissioners until after at least one public hearing has been conducted.
Section 5. - Procedures for Conducting a Public Hearing.
5.1.
All public hearings on zoning amendments shall be chaired by either the Chairman of the Planning Commission or the County Commission Chairman or their designees.
5.2.
A secretary shall record the proceedings of the public hearing. If requested by any party, verbatim transcripts of the public hearing can be prepared, only if requested and purchased in advance by the requesting party.
5.3.
The record of the public hearing and all evidence submitted at the public hearing shall be recorded as such and become a permanent part of the particular zoning amendment's file.
5.4.
The official zoning map and the McIntosh County Comprehensive Plan shall be available at the public hearing for reference by the Planning Commission.
5.5.
Copies of this Article of this Ordinance shall be available upon request by the public at each public hearing.
5.6.
The Chairman of the Planning Commission or County Commission Chairman shall preside at the public hearing and shall identify speakers, maintain order, and conduct the public hearing.
5.7.
The process to be followed in conducting these hearings shall be as follows:
A.
The presiding officer shall state the specific zoning amendment being considered at the public hearing.
B.
When there are a large number of individuals wishing to testify at a hearing, the presiding officer may invoke time limits on individual speakers. In such cases, these time limits shall apply to all speakers.
C.
The presiding officer shall recognize the individual parties wishing to testify or present evidence and allow them to present this information.
D.
Once all parties have concluded their testimony, the presiding officer shall adjourn the public hearing. Hearings may be continued from time to time and, if the time and place of the continued hearing be publicly announced at the time of the adjournment no further notice of such continued hearings shall be required; otherwise, notice thereof shall be given, as in the case of the original hearing.
5.8.
Re-hearings. An application for a rehearing may be made in the same manner as provided for an original hearing.
5.9.
Time limit on Board's decision. The Planning Commission shall reach a decision following a public hearing within a reasonable period of time; however, said period shall not exceed forty-five (45) days.
Section 6. - Application for Amendment.
6.1.
Applications for amendment of these regulations may be in the form of proposals for amendment of the text of these regulations or proposals for amendment of the zoning map. Applications for amendment shall be submitted to the McIntosh County Board of Commissioners.
6.2.
Signature of Applicant Required. All applications shall be signed by the applicant and shall state his name and address. When a change in the zoning classification of a piece of property is requested, the applicant shall be only the owner of such property or his authorized agent.
6.3.
Application for Text Amendment. In the case of a text amendment, the application shall set forth the new text to be added and the existing text to be deleted.
6.4.
Application for Map Amendment. An application for a map amendment shall include the following information:
A.
The community or area in which is located the land proposed to be reclassified and the street number, lot numbers, the location with respect to the nearby public roads in common use;
B.
A suitable description of the land which may be by a plat of the land in question, or by a description by metes and bounds, or by the lot, block and subdivision designations with appropriate plat reference or by other suitable description;
C.
The present zoning classification and the classification proposed for such land;
D.
The name and address of the owners of the land;
E.
The area of the land proposed to be reclassified stated in square feet if less than one (1) acre, and in acres if one (1) acre or more;
F.
The county tax map reference number;
G.
Site Analysis Map: Any person petitioning for the rezoning of a parcel of land, must submit two (2) hard copies a professionally prepared site fingerprint map, drawn at a scale of 1:200, that contains the following information:
1.
A wetland delineation prepared by an environmental engineer or consultant, using the techniques and procedures found in the Army Corps of Engineers Wetland Delineation Manual, Technical Report Y-87-1 (January 1987). The site map shall indicate the location of both jurisdictional wetlands, as classified by Army Corps and Environmental Protection Agency guidelines and regulations, and non-jurisdictional, isolated wetlands. The engineer or consultant preparing the site map shall indicate, in conspicuous writing on the face of the site map, that s/he certifies that s/he has conducted a thorough wetlands delineation in accordance with the procedures contained in the 1987 Army Corps Wetland Delineation Manual, and that all jurisdictional and non-jurisdictional wetlands identified by the delineation are shown on the site map;
2.
Bodies of open water over 5,000 square feet contiguous area;
3.
Riparian buffer zones in accordance with the Riparian Buffer Ordinance of McIntosh County;
4.
Coastal Marshlands that meet the definition of the Georgia Department of Natural Resources pursuant to the Coastal Zone Management Act 9;
5.
Populations of rare, endangered or threatened species, or habitat for such species, as defined by the Georgia Department of Natural Resources in the Coastal Habitat Assessment of the 11 counties conducted by DNR, Wildlife Resources Division, Coastal Nongame Conservation Program;
6.
Important, known archaeological sites and historic structures.
Section 7. - McIntosh County Rezoning Criteria.
7.1.
The following criteria is to be used by the Planning Commission and County Commission in determining whether a particular rezoning request should be approved. A negative finding on any or some of the above criteria does not preclude the Planning Commission or County Commission from approving a rezoning.
A.
Is this request an illogical extension of a zone boundary which would intrude a damaging salient of (a) commercial, (b) industrial, (c) high-density apartment use into a stable neighborhood of well-maintained single-family homes, and would be likely to lead to neighborhood deterioration, the spread of blight, and requests for additional zoning of a similar nature which would expand the problem?
B.
Is this spot zoning and generally unrelated to either existing zoning or the pattern of development of the area?
C.
Could traffic created by the proposed use or other uses permissible under the zoning sought traverse established single-family neighborhoods on minor streets, leading to congestion, noise, and traffic hazards?
D.
Does this request conform/alter general expectations for population growth and distribution?
E.
Will this request eliminate options for the acquisition of future public facility sites, roads, open-space, etc.?
F.
Will this request require a major change in existing, (1) levels of public service, (b) county operators, and/or (c) fiscal stability?
G.
Does this request have the potential of achieving short-term, to the disadvantage of long-term, development goals?
H.
Could a change in classification adversely affect market values and/or tax rates of nearby properties?
I.
Are nearby residents in favor of or support the proposed zoning change?
J.
Is the proposed area to be developed located in or near an area of rare natural beauty which would be damaged by the permitting of the proposed rezoning?
K.
Could the proposed zoning allow uses that overload both existing public facilities or those that are proposed?
L.
Would rezoning be reasonable in light of development restrictions in wetlands on the parcel and/or the potential for wetland or water quality impairment on or off of the parcel?
M.
If the proposed rezoning requires or permits the installation of septic systems on the parcel, do the surrounding soil conditions, including the presence of wetlands, impede effective treatment of human waste on site or transport of treated material?
N.
Does the request conform to the McIntosh County Comprehensive Plan and Future Development Strategy?
Section 8. - Conflict of Interest in Zoning Actions.
8.1.
Any government official, as defined in Georgia Law, Chapter 67A, who has a financial interest in any real property affected by a rezoning or has a member of the family with such an interest, shall immediately disclose the nature and extent of such interest as required by 36-67-A O.C.G.A.
8.2.
Applicants for rezoning shall file concurrent with the rezoning application, a Disclosure Report listing all campaign contributions or gifts made to local government officials of McIntosh County within the two years preceding the filing of the application.
8.3.
Opponents of zoning actions, who have made campaign contributions, as defined in 36-67-A O.C.G.A. shall file a disclosure statement at least five calendar days prior to the first public hearing. This disclosure statement shall list the local government officials to whom campaign contributions were made totaling over $250 each during the previous two years.
