Chapter 36 - STREETS, SIDEWALKS AND OTHER PUBLIC PLACES[1]
Footnotes:
--- (1) ---
State Law reference— County has home rule powers regarding the construction and maintenance of streets, sidewalks, and curbs, Ga. Const. art. IX, § II, ¶ III(a)(4); general powers and duties of county regarding responsibility for a county road system, O.C.G.A. § 32-4-40 et seq.

ARTICLE I. - IN GENERAL

Secs. 36-1—36-18. - Reserved.
ARTICLE II. - HEAVY HAULING

Sec. 36-19. - Definitions.
Words and phrases used in this article shall have the following meanings, unless otherwise specified:
Access site means any temporary roadway, drive, structure, fill or device, existing or constructed, that is used or employed for the purpose of crossing, travel upon or use of county road as defined in this section.
County right-of-way means for the purpose of this article, the shoulder, front slope, ditch, drain, and back slope, facility or any appurtenance of any county road as defined in this section.
County road means any county-owned or county-maintained highway, road, street, avenue, drive, detour or other way open to the public and intended or used for the passage of motor vehicles.
Heavy equipment machinery and vehicles means any and all devices in, upon or by which any person or property may be transported or drawn including but not limited to semitrailers, trailers, tractor and truck-tractors; provided, however, that vehicles being used for the immediate control or extinguishment of wild fire shall be exempt from this article.
Loading and unloading shall be defined by its everyday meaning but shall include any activity known as harvesting or mining or any product or material.
Operations means those activities contemplated by this article, including the loading or transporting of raw material such as stone, timber, oil, fill dirt, produce and kaolin.
Operator means any individual, partnership, corporation, association, or private organization or any character, and the officer's agents, and employees thereof carrying out the activities contemplated by this article.
(Ord. of 9-28-1993(1), § 2)
Sec. 36-20. - Applicability.
This article shall cover any person, association, or business entity that uses a county right-of-way in carrying out its business by loading, transporting, or unloading materials of any nature whether on the road surface or a county right-of-way or crossing the unpaved portion of the right-of-way including ditches or embankments.
(Ord. of 9-28-1993(1), § 1)
Sec. 36-21. - Commencement of operations.
All persons loading, unloading or transporting materials in excess of three tons per load across a county road or right-of-way must provide in writing to the county board of commissioners' clerk the following information within 48 hours before commencing operations on county right-of-way:
(1)
The name, address, and phone number of the party which will be loading or unloading;
(2)
The approximate location of access sites to the county road;
(3)
The date worked commenced; and
(4)
Name of titles owner of tract.
(Ord. of 9-28-1993(1), § 3)
Sec. 36-22. - Release of liability.
Operator shall give oral or written notification upon completion of operations to the clerk of county commissioners within 48 hours. Upon site inspection by a designated county official, the clerk of county commissioners shall provide written notice of release of liability to operator within eight days of notification from operator. Should said notification by the clerk of county commissioners not be made on a timely basis, operator shall not be held responsible or liable under this article.
(Ord. of 9-28-1993(1), § 4)
Sec. 36-23. - Arbitration.
(a)
If it is determined by the designated county official either during or at the conclusion of operations that the county road and access site are not in a proper state of repair, the operator shall have ten days to correct the site or appeal the decision.
(b)
Upon receipt of a written appeal, the board of commissioners shall have five days to impanel an arbitration board. The arbitration board shall consist of three people: one person selected by the board of commissioners; one person selected by the operator; and one person mutually agreed upon by the two persons selected.
(c)
Once the arbitration board has been selected, the arbitration board shall have no more than 30 days from the receipt of the letter of appeal in which to reach a decision. The decision of the arbitration board shall be final.
(Ord. of 9-28-1993(1), § 5)
Sec. 36-24. - Bonding requirement.
If repairs are not made by operator within ten days of the decision of the arbitration board, or within ten days of notification from the appropriate county official, then repairs shall be made at operator's expense. If this occurs, the board of commissioners shall be authorized to required posting of a security bond or letter of credit in an amount not to exceed $1,000.00 by designated firm, company, or individual for future operations on county right-of-way. Said bond will remain in force until the conclusion of operations with access points and roads being in satisfactory condition as prescribed by this article; at which time said bond will be returned to operator within ten days.
(Ord. of 9-28-1993(1), § 6)
Sec. 36-25. - Performance standards.
(a)
Harvesting, mining, or loading materials. All harvesting, mining, or loading shall be conducted at a loading site off the county rights-of-way and behind the established ditch line of county roads.
(b)
Ditches. Ditches within 50 feet of a temporary driveway or right-of-way crossing shall be kept clear of all debris or residue at all times to allow for proper drainage. Culverts shall be installed at temporary entrances, as needed, to facilitate proper drainage flow.
(c)
Warning signs. Any firm, company, or person operating on county rights-of-way shall be required to post warning signs at least 500 feet on both sides of the temporary driveway adequately warning oncoming traffic of persons, vehicles, equipment or machinery entering roadway.
(d)
Roadway. County roads shall be kept serviceable at all times for school buses, emergency vehicles, mail carriers and traffic of the general public.
(Ord. of 9-28-1993(1), § 7)
Secs. 36-26—36-53. - Reserved.
ARTICLE III. - COUNTY BUILDINGS AND FACILITIES

Sec. 36-54. - Smoking—Prohibited in courthouse.
Smoking is prohibited in the courthouse.
(Res. of 2-19-1993)
Sec. 36-55. - Same—Prohibited within 30 feet of county building entrance.
Smoking is prohibited within 30 feet of the entrance of the county building.
(Res. of 4-5-2005(1))
Secs. 36-56—36-83. - Reserved.
ARTICLE IV. - DOCKS, PIERS AND WATERWAYS

Sec. 36-84. - Prohibited conduct.
(a)
It shall be unlawful to operate any boat, ship, craft or other marine vessel upon the waters of Julienton River in the county from the mouth of Bruro or Shellman Bluff River to a point 4,000 feet northerly therefrom at a rate of speed so great as to create a wake discernable at either bank of said river or stream. It shall further be unlawful for any person to engage in water skiing upon said waters.
(b)
Punishment for violation of this provision shall be according to the general penalties described in section 1-9.
(Res. of 12-29-1981)
Sec. 36-85. - Docking limit.
Boaters shall have a three-hour limit on the docking of privately owned watercraft at either county-owned or department of leisure services-owned dock facilities through the county. A violation of the terms of this section shall be punishable according to the general penalties described in section 1-9.
(Ord. of 10-21-1999)
