Chapter 38 - TAXATION
ARTICLE I. - IN GENERAL

Sec. 38-1. - Sales tax.
A one percent local sales and use tax is hereby levied in and for the county by the county board of commissioners in accordance with the provisions of O.C.G.A. § 48-8-82.
(Res. of 11-20-1979)
Secs. 38-2—38-21. - Reserved.
ARTICLE II. - ADMINISTRATION

Sec. 38-22. - Tax commissioner.
The tax commissioner shall perform his duties in compliance with the state code, especially the following:
(1)
O.C.G.A. § 48-5-161, which sets out the timetable for the issuance of executions;
(2)
O.C.G.A. § 48-5-153, which requires reporting of unpaid taxes by the tax commissioner on a prescribed timetable; and
(3)
O.C.G.A. § 48-5-142, which requires bi-weekly reports to the county board of commissioners of the aggregate amount of taxes collected during the two-week period.
(Res. of 9-12-1995, § 1)
Sec. 38-23. - Failure to comply with state code.
Should the tax commissioner fail to comply with the requirements of the state code, by a determination of the county auditor, the clerk is instructed to notify the county board of commissioners for further action as required by O.C.G.A. §§ 48-5-145, 48-5-152, and 48-5-112, respectively.
(Res. of 9-12-1995, § 2)
Sec. 38-24. - Tax assessor's compensation.
The tax assessor's salary shall be established by resolution of the board of commissioners from time to time.
(Res. of 2-18-2003(2))
Sec. 38-25. - Boards of equalization.
(a)
The county board of commissioners does elect to have two county boards of equalization, each of which will consist of five members and 12 alternate members. Both boards of equalization will have a chairperson and two vice-chairpersons, who will be appointed to their positions by the grand jury.
(b)
The compensation for members and alternate members of the boards of equalization shall be made in accordance with the minimum provisions of applicable state statutes.
(Res. of 9-9-2003; Res. of 10-25-2005)
Secs. 38-26—38-53. - Reserved.
ARTICLE III. - FINANCIAL INSTITUTIONS[1]

Footnotes:
--- (1) ---
State Law reference— Local depository financial institutions business license tax, O.C.G.A. § 48-6-93.

Sec. 38-54. - Business license tax—Levied.
In accordance with O.C.G.A. § 48-6-93, there is hereby levied for each year an annual business license tax upon all depository financial institutions located within the county and not exempted by state law, at a rate of 0.25 percent of the gross receipts of said depository financial institutions. Gross receipts means gross receipts as defined in O.C.G.A. § 48-6-93. The term "depository financial institutions" means state and national banks, state building and loan associations, and federal savings and loan associations.
(Res. of 10-11-1983, § 1)
Sec. 38-55. - Same—Minimum.
The minimum annual amount of business license tax due from any depository financial institution pursuant to this article shall be $1,000.00.
(Res. of 10-11-1983, § 2)
Sec. 38-56. - Filing of return.
Pursuant to O.C.G.A. § 48-6-93(c), each depository financial institution subject to this tax shall file a return of its gross receipts with the county board of commissioners on March 1 of the year following the year in which such gross receipts are measured. Said return shall be in the manner and in the form prescribed by the commissioner of the department of revenue based on the allocation method set forth in O.C.G.A. § 48-6-93(d). The county board of commissioners shall assess and collect the tax levied pursuant to this article based upon the information provided in said return.
(Res. of 10-11-1983, § 3)
Sec. 38-57. - Due date of taxes.
Taxes levied pursuant to this article shall be due no later than 30 days after filing of the return prescribed by this article unless extended by the board of commissioners.
(Res. of 10-11-1983, § 4)
Sec. 38-58. - Administrative provisions.
The clerk of commissioners, the county is hereby directed to forward a copy of this article to each depository financial institution in the county and to the home office of each such depository financial institution if located outside the county.
(Res. of 10-11-1983, § 5)
Secs. 38-59—38-89. - Reserved.
ARTICLE IV. - EXCISE TAX[2]

Footnotes:
--- (2) ---
State Law reference— Counties authorized to impose, levy, and collect a hotel and lodging tax, O.C.G.A. § 48-13-50 et seq.

Sec. 38-90. - Definitions.
Words and phrases used in this article shall have the following meanings, unless otherwise specified:
Dealer means every person engaged in the business of operating an innkeeper's facility in the county, who furnishes for value any room or rooms, lodgings, or accommodations to the public.
Occupancy means the use or possession, or the right to the use or possession of any room or apartment in a hotel or the right to the use or possession of the furnishings or to the services and accommodations accompanying the use and possession of the room.
Person means any individual, firm partnership, cooperative, corporation (profit and nonprofit), joint venture, association, trust, business trust, or other legal entity, public or private, or quasi-public, and the plural as well as the singular number.
Units of accommodation means individual tourist cabins, trailers, trailer sites, camp sites, apartments, suites, and other multi-room accommodations and accommodations consisting of other than a "room," as that term is normally understood in the sale and purchase of accommodations which accommodations are furnished as units and for which charges are assessed on per unit bases.
(Ord. of 11-14-1978, § 2)
Sec. 38-91. - Levied.
There is levied and imposed on the furnishings for value to the public of any room, lodging or accommodations by every dealer a tax in the amount of five percent of the charge to the public as of the time such charge is made, for each room or other unit of lodging or accommodation furnished to the public.
(Res. of 11-14-1978; Ord. of 11-14-1978, § 1; Ord. of 9-14-1982(2), § 1; Ord. of 8-11-1987, § 1)
Sec. 38-92. - Exemptions.
The only exemptions acknowledged by McIntosh County are provided by state statute.
(Ord. of 11-14-1978, § 3)
Sec. 38-93. - Applicability.
Every dealer furnishing any room or other unit of accommodation to the public shall be liable for the tax thereon and for the collection, reporting and remittance of said tax.
(Ord. of 11-14-1978, § 4)
Sec. 38-94. - Tax due date.
It shall be the duty of each dealer liable for the tax imposed by this article to report, on or before the 20th day of each calendar month, to the board of county commissioners on forms furnished by the county, or on forms prepared by the reporting taxpayer and disclosing the same information:
(1)
The number of rooms, or other units of accommodation furnished during the preceding calendar month and the total charges therefor (excluding charges for telephone, food and beverage services, if any);
(2)
The number of rooms or other units of accommodation furnished to the same occupant for a period exceeding ten consecutive days; and the total charges therefor (excluding charges for telephone, food and beverage services, if any);
(3)
The tax base;
(4)
The total tax due for the month preceding the month of filing; and
(5)
Any such other information as may be required by the board of commissioners.
All such reports shall be made under oath and shall be signed by the reporting dealer.
(Ord. of 11-14-1978, § 5)
Sec. 38-95. - Monthly report.
It shall further be the duty of each dealer liable for the tax imposed this article to remit monthly to the board of county commissioners with the report prepared and submitted pursuant to this article the tax due in the amount shown on said report. Failure to so remit such tax shall cause said tax to become delinquent.
(Ord. of 11-14-1978, § 6)
Sec. 38-96. - Dealer collection.
For the purpose of compensating the dealers for collecting, reporting and remitting the tax levied by this article, each such dealer shall be allowed three percent of the amount of the tax due and accounted for and remitted to the county in the form of a deduction in submitting his report and paying the amount due by him; provided the amount due was not delinquent at the time of payment.
(Ord. of 11-14-1978, § 7)
Sec. 38-97. - Failure to report.
(a)
When any dealer shall fail to make any report or pay the full amount of the tax required by this article, there shall be imposed a specific penalty to be added to the tax in the amount of five percent or $5.00, whichever is greater, if the remittance and/or report is not delinquent for more than 30 days, with an additional five percent or $5.00, whichever is greater, for each additional 30 days, or fraction thereof, during which the failure continues, not to exceed 25 percent or $25.00 in the aggregate, whichever is greater; provided, however, if such failure is due to providential cause shown to the satisfaction of the board of county commissioners in affidavit form attached to the report and remittance within ten days of due date, such reports may be accepted exclusive of penalties and interest. In the case of a false or fraudulent report or the failure to file a report, where willful intent exists to defraud the county of any tax due under this article, a specific penalty of 50 percent of the tax due shall be assessed.
(b)
When any person or other legal entity fails to remit the tax, or any portion thereof on or before the day when required by law to be paid, there shall be added to the amount due interest at the rate of eight percent per annum from the date until paid.
(c)
All penalties and interest imposed by this article shall by payable and collectable by the county in the manner as if they were a part of the tax imposed.
(Ord. of 11-14-1978, § 8)
Sec. 38-98. - Extension.
The county board of commissioners for good cause may extend, for not to exceed 30 days, the time for making any reports required under the provisions of this article. In the event that any person or other legal entity fails to make a report and pay the tax as provided by this article, or in case any person or other legal entity makes a grossly incorrect report, or a report that is false or fraudulent it shall be the duty of the board of commissioners through its designated agents to make an estimate for the taxable period of the proceeds from the furnishing of rooms or other units of accommodation, to calculate the tax base taking into consideration the exception for rooms or other units furnished for a period exceeding ten consecutive days, as provided by section 38-92, and to assess and collect the tax and interest, plus penalty, if such have accrued, on the basis of such assessments which shall be considered prima facie correct, and the burden to show the contrary shall rest upon the dealer.
(Ord. of 11-14-1978, § 9)
Sec. 38-99. - Duties.
It shall be the duty of every dealer required to make a report and pay any tax under this article, to keep and preserve suitable records of the furnishing of rooms or other units of accommodation, such other books of account as may be necessary to determine the amount of tax due hereunder, and other information as may be reasonably required by the county. It shall further be the duty of every such dealer to keep and preserve, for a period of three years, all such records of charges made for the furnishing of rooms or other units of lodging or accommodation, all such records, including but not limited to books, of account, shall be open to examination at all reasonable hours to the county or its authorized agents.
(Ord. of 11-14-1978, § 10)
Sec. 38-100. - Dealer authorized to appoint agent.
For purposes of collection, reporting and remittance of the tax imposed hereby, each dealer may appoint an authorized agent and may delegate the collection, reporting and remittance to such agent; provided, however, dealers appointing such agents shall notify the county in writing of the name and address of such agent; provided further, that any dealer appointing such agent shall remain fully liable for the tax and for the collection, reporting and remittance of such tax.
(Ord. of 11-14-1978, § 11)
Sec. 38-101. - Municipal boundary limitation.
No tax as called for by this article shall be imposed, levied and collected on any person as defined in this article, who operates his business within the limits of any municipality.
(Ord. of 11-14-1978, § 12)
Sec. 38-102. - Administration of article.
(a)
Authority of the clerk of the board of commissioners. The clerk or his assistant shall administer and enforce the provisions of this article for the collection of the tax imposed by this article.
(b)
Records required from operators, etc.; form. Every dealer renting guestrooms in the county to a person shall keep such records, receipts, invoices, and other pertinent papers in such form as the clerk may require.
(c)
Examination of authorized records; audits. The clerk or any person authorized in writing by the clerk may examine the books, papers, records, financial reports, equipment and other facilities of any operator renting guestrooms to a person and any operator liable for the tax, in order to verify the accuracy of any return made, or if no return is made by the operator, to ascertain and determine the amount required to be paid.
(d)
Authority to require reports; contents. In administration of the provisions of this section, the clerk may require the filing of reports by any persons or class of persons having in such person's or persons' possession or custody information relating to rentals of guestrooms which are subject to the tax. The reports shall be filed with the clerk when required by the clerk and shall set forth the rental charged for each occupancy, the date or dates of occupancy, and such other information as the clerk may require.
Secs. 38-103—38-132. - Reserved.
ARTICLE V. - OCCUPATIONAL LICENSE TAX[3]

Footnotes:
--- (3) ---
State Law reference— Business and occupation taxes, O.C.G.A. § 48-13-5 et seq.

Sec. 38-133. - Definitions.
Words and phrases used in this article shall have the following meanings, unless otherwise specified:
Location or office means any structure or vehicle where a business, profession, or occupation is conducted, but shall not include a temporary or construction work site which serves a single customer or project or a vehicle used for sales or delivery by a business or practitioner of a profession; but shall not include a temporary work site which serves a single customer or project. The renter's or lessee's location which is the site of personal property which is rented or leased from another does not constitute a location or office for the personal property's owner, lessor, or the agent of the owner or lessor. The site of real property which is rented or leased to another does not constitute a location or office for the real property's owner, lessor, or the agent of the owner or lessor unless the real property's owner, lessor, or the agent of the owner or lessor, in addition to showing the property to prospective lessees or tenants and performing maintenance or repair of the property, otherwise conducts the business of renting or leasing the real property at such site or otherwise conducts any other business, profession, or occupation at such site.
Occupation tax means a tax levied on persons, partnerships, corporations, or other entities for engaging in an occupation, profession, or business for revenue raising purposes.
Person means and includes sole proprietors, corporations, partnerships, nonprofits, or any other form of business organization, but specifically excludes charitable nonprofit organizations which utilize 50 percent of their proceeds for charitable purposes.
Practitioner of profession or occupation means one who, by state law, requires state licensure regulating such profession or occupation. The term "practitioner of profession or occupation" shall not include an practitioner who is an employee of a business, if the business pays an occupation tax.
Regulatory fees means payments, whether designated as license fees, permit fees, or by another name, which are required by a local government as an exercise of its police power and as a part of or an aid to regulation of an occupation, profession, or business. The amount of a regulatory fee shall approximate the reasonable cost of the actual regulatory activity performed by the county. A regulatory fee may not include an administrative fee. Development impact fees as defined by O.C.G.A. § 36-71-2(8) or other costs or conditions of zoning or land development are not regulatory fees.
(Ord. of 1-9-1996, § 1-02)
Sec. 38-134. - Penalty.
Any person violating any provisions of this article shall, upon conviction before the county magistrate court judge, be punished according to the general penalties described in section 1-9.
(Ord. of 1-9-1996, § 1-16)
Sec. 38-135. - Imposed.
For each year any person engaged in any business, trade, profession, or occupation in the county, whether with a location in the county or in the case of an out-of-state business with no location in the state exerting substantial efforts within the state pursuant to O.C.G.A. § 48-13-7, shall pay an occupation tax for said business, trade, profession, or occupation; which tax and any applicable registration shall be displayed in a conspicuous place in the place of business, if the taxpayer has a permanent business location in the county. If the taxpayer has no permanent business location in the county, such business tax registration shall be shown to the sheriff or the sheriff's deputies or to any police officer of the county upon request.
(Ord. of 1-9-1996, § 1-01)
Sec. 38-136. - Levied.
An occupation tax shall be levied upon those businesses and practitioners of professions and occupations with one or more locations or offices in the unincorporated part of the county and/or upon the applicable out-of-state businesses with no location or office in the state pursuant to O.C.G.A. § 48-13-7 based upon a uniform fee of $100.00 for the first employee, plus $10.00 per employee for every employee other than the first employee. This fee may be changed from time to time by resolution and such amended fee schedule shall be available at the office of the clerk of the board of commissioners.
(Ord. of 1-9-1996, § 1-03)
Sec. 38-137. - Registration and assessment.
Registration and assessment of an occupation tax is hereby imposed on those businesses and practitioners of professions with no location or office in the state if the business's largest dollar volume of business in the state is in county and the business of practitioner:
(1)
Has one or more employees or agents who exert substantial efforts within the jurisdiction of county for the purpose of soliciting business or serving customers or clients; or
(2)
Owns personal or real property which generates income and which is located within the jurisdiction of county.
(Ord. of 1-9-1996, § 1-04)
Sec. 38-138. - Lines of business.
The business registration of each business operated in the local government's jurisdiction shall identify the line or lines of business that the business conducts. No business shall conduct any line of business without first having that line of business registered with the county and that line of business being noted by the county upon the business registration form which is to be displayed by the business owner.
(Ord. of 1-9-1996, § 1-05)
Sec. 38-139. - Different locations.
Where a person conducts business at more than one fixed location, each location or place shall be considered a separate business for the purpose of occupation tax.
(Ord. of 1-9-1996, § 1-06)
Sec. 38-140. - Tax for practitioners of professions.
Practitioners of professions as described in O.C.G.A. § 48-13-9(c)(1) through (18) shall elect as their entire occupation tax one of the following:
(1)
The occupation tax based on uniform fee of $100.00.
(2)
A fee of $100.00 per practitioner who is licensed to provide the service, such tax to be paid at the practitioner's office or location; provided, however, that a practitioner paying according to this subsection shall not be required to provide information to the local government relating to the gross receipts of the business or practitioner. The per-practitioner fee applies to each person in the business who qualifies as a practitioner under the state's regulatory guidelines and framework.
(3)
This election is to be made on an annual basis and must be done by January 10 of each year.
(Ord. of 1-9-1996, § 1-07)
Sec. 38-141. - Practitioners employed by United States.
Any practitioner whose office is maintained by and who is employed in practice exclusively by the United States, the state, a municipality or county of the state, instrumentalities of the United States, the state, or a municipality or county of the state shall not be required to obtain a license or pay an occupation tax for that practice.
(Ord. of 1-9-1996, § 1-08)
Sec. 38-142. - Tax for revenue purposes.
The occupation tax levied in this article is for revenue purposes only and is not for regulatory purposes, nor is the payment of the tax made a condition precedent to the practice of any such profession, trade, or calling. The occupation tax only applies to those businesses and occupations which are covered by the provisions of O.C.G.A. §§ 48-13-5 to 48-13-26. All other applicable businesses and occupations are taxed by the local government pursuant to the pertinent general and/or local law and ordinance.
(Ord. of 1-9-1996, § 1-09)
Sec. 38-143. - Term.
Each such occupation tax shall be for each calendar year unless otherwise specifically provided. Said registration and occupation tax shall be payable January 1 of each year and shall, if not paid by January 30 of each year, be subject to penalties for delinquency as prescribed in this article. On any new profession, trade, or calling that commences in the county after January 31 the registration and tax shall be delinquent if not obtained within 30 days following the beginning business and a penalty shall be imposed, and in default thereof the officer or agent soliciting for or representing such persons shall be subject to the same penalty as other persons who fail to obtain a registration. Every person commencing business in the county after January 1 of each year shall likewise obtain the registration herein provided for before commencing the same; and any person transacting, or offering to transact in the county, any of the kinds of business, trade, profession, or occupation without first having so obtained said registration, shall be subject to penalties provided thereof. The amount of the penalty shall be set by resolution of the board of commissioners from time to time, and available for public examination in the rate and fee schedule in the office of the county clerk. On any new profession, trade or calling begun in the county on or after July 1 in any year, the business or occupation tax for the remaining portion of the year shall be 50 percent of the tax imposed for the entire year.
(Ord. of 1-9-1996, § 1-10)
Sec. 38-144. - Registration issued by county clerk.
The registration herein provided for shall be issued by the clerk of county commission, and if any person, firm, or corporation whose duty it is to obtain a registration shall, after said occupation tax becomes delinquent, transact or offer to transact, in the county, any of the kind of business, trade, profession, or occupation without having first obtained said registration, such offender shall be subject to the penalties provided thereof.
(Ord. of 1-9-1996, § 1-15)
Sec. 38-145. - Exemptions.
The following businesses are not covered by the provisions of this article but may be assessed an occupation tax or other type of tax pursuant to the provisions of other general laws of the state or by local law:
(1)
Those businesses regulated by the state public service commission.
(2)
Those electrical service business organized under chapter 3 of the title 46 of the Official Code of Georgia Annotated (O.C.G.A. § 46-3-1 et seq.).
(3)
Any farm operation for the production from or on the land of agricultural products, but not including agribusiness.
(4)
Cooperative marketing associations governed by O.C.G.A. § 2-10-105.
(5)
Insurance companies governed by O.C.G.A. § 33-8-8 et seq.
(6)
Motor common carriers governed by O.C.G.A. § 46-7-15.
(7)
Those business governed by O.C.G.A. § 48-5-355. (Businesses that purchase carload lots of guano, meats, meal, flour, bran, cottonseed, or cottonseed mean and hulls.)
(8)
Agricultural products and livestock raised in the state governed by O.C.G.A. § 48-5-356.
(9)
Depository financial institutions governed by O.C.G.A. § 48-6-93.
(10)
Facilities operated by a charitable trust governed by O.C.G.A. § 48-13-55.
(Ord. of 1-9-1996, § 1-17)
Sec. 38-146. - Gross receipts.
An occupation tax shall not apply to the gross receipts of any part of a business where such levy is prohibited or exempted by the laws of the state or of the United States.
(Ord. of 1-9-1996, § 1-18)
Sec. 38-147. - Discount.
The taxpayer may have the following options as to payment of said tax: If the entire amount of the occupation tax is paid on or before the due date, the taxpayer shall be entitled to a ten percent discount of the amount of tax so paid allowable at the time of such payment. No discount shall be allowed for any payment made after the due date.
(Ord. of 1-9-1996, § 1-19)
Sec. 38-148. - Registration.
Where a business is operated at more than one place or where the business includes more than one line, said business shall be required to obtain the necessary registration for each location and line and pay an occupation tax in accordance with the prevailing taxing method and tax rate for each location and line.
(Ord. of 1-9-1996, § 1-20)
Sec. 38-149. - Failure to pay.
Except to the extent otherwise provided for in this article, upon the failure of any business to pay said occupation tax or any part thereof before it becomes delinquent, or upon failure to make any of said returns within the time required herein, or upon failure to make a true return, or upon failure to amend a return to set forth the truth, or upon failure to permit inspection of its books, as provided in this article, any business tax registration granted by the county under this article permitting the owner of said business to do business for the current year shall be, ipso facto, revoked. No new business tax registration shall be granted by the county for the operation of a business for which any part of the occupation tax herein provided for is at that time unpaid. In the case of those practitioners where the local government cannot suspend the right of the practitioner to conduct business, the imposition of civil penalties shall be permitted and pursued by the local government in the case of delinquent occupation tax.
(Ord. of 1-9-1996, § 1-21)
Sec. 38-150. - Effect of failure to comply with article; continuing in business after tax registration revoked.
Any persons, their managers, agents, or employees, who do business in the county after the registration for said business has been revoked are hereby required to make occupation tax returns, and who fail to make said returns within the time and in the manner herein provided, who refuse to amend such returns so as to set forth the truth, or who shall make false returns; and any persons, their managers, agents, or employees who refuse to permit an inspection of books in their charge when the officers, agents, employees, or representatives of the county request such inspection, during business hours, for the purpose of determining the accuracy of the returns herein provided for, shall be subject to penalties provided herein. In the case of those practitioners where the local government cannot suspend the right of the practitioner to conduct business, the imposition of civil penalties shall be permitted and pursued by the local government in the case of delinquent occupation tax. These penalties may consist of either percentage of the amount due or a flat fee fine.
(Ord. of 1-9-1996, § 1-22)
Sec. 38-151. - Public hearing.
The commission shall conduct at least one public hearing before adopting any ordinance or resolution which will increase the rate of occupation tax as set forth in this article.
(Ord. of 1-9-1996, § 1-26)
