ARTICLE II. - BOARD OF COMMISSIONERS

Sec. 2-19. - Chair.
(a)
The presiding officer of the board shall be the chairperson, who shall be elected annually at the first meeting in January of each year, by the members of the board. The chairperson shall assume his chair immediately after election.
(b)
The chair of the board of commissioners is responsible for the orderly conduct of the meeting. In order to fulfill this duty, the chair must enforce the rules of procedure that have been adopted by the board of commissioners. The chair shall be impartial and conduct the meetings in a fair manner. The chair may not introduce motions or second a motion except that the chair may introduce or second a motion to go into executive session. The chair shall vote to break a tie and may vote on any motion under consideration.
(c)
The chair may create committees of members of the board to study any issue before the board or contemplated by the board to be an issue. Any such committees may make recommendations to the board of commissioners but no committee shall be empowered to make any final decision on any matter before it for consideration. In addition to board members, committees may include other county officials, staff or citizens at large. Whenever a committee is created, its duties, any limitation on the scope of its duties, and the times, places and periods of time for which the committee may operate shall be determined by the chair with the concurrence of the board. The chair or his designee shall serve as an ex officio member of all committees.
Sec. 2-20. - Vice-chair.
(a)
The board shall select a vice-chair from the board members at the beginning of every calendar year. The vice-chair shall fulfill the duties of the chair if the chair is not in attendance, or has a conflict of interest.
(b)
If the chair and the vice-chair are absent and a quorum is present, the remaining commissioners shall select a commissioner to serve as temporary chair of the meeting until either the chair or vice-chair is present at the meeting.
Sec. 2-21. - Quorum.
A quorum must be present for conducting meetings of the board. A quorum is a majority of all the members of the board then in office. It is the duty of the chair to enforce this rule.
Sec. 2-22. - Voting; majority; abstentions.
(a)
Passage of a motion shall require three affirmative votes.
(b)
A commissioner shall vote on all motions unless he has a conflict of interest which would prevent him from making a decision in a fair and legal manner. If a conflict of interest does exist, the commissioner shall explain for the record his decision to abstain on any vote. The chair may, on the advice of the county attorney, rule on the matter of a conflict of interest.
Sec. 2-23. - Open meetings.
All meetings of the board of commissioners shall be held in accordance with the provisions of O.C.G.A. § 50-14-1 et seq. The public shall at all times be afforded access to all meetings other than executive sessions.
Sec. 2-24. - Meeting notice.
The time, place, and dates of regular meetings shall be posted and maintained in a conspicuous place available to the public at the regular meeting place of the board, as required by state statute.
Sec. 2-25. - Regular meeting times.
(a)
Regular meetings of the board of commissioners shall be held on the second Tuesday of each month at 5:00 p.m. All regular meetings shall be held in a room of the county courthouse or any other location as designated by the chair. A notice containing the foregoing information shall be posted and maintained in a conspicuous place available to the general public at the county courthouse. The dates and times of the regular meetings may be modified by the chair. Special called meetings may be set by the chair.
(b)
In general, the board of commissioners shall apply Robert's Rules of Order (most recent edition) in the conduct and administration of the meetings of the board. Nothing contained herein shall prevent deviation from Robert's Rules of Order to ensure the efficient and timely conduct and administration of the meetings.
(Ord. of 4-10-2012(1); Ord. of 08-08-2017(2))
State Law reference— Regular meetings, special meetings and emergency meetings, O.C.G.A. § 50-14-1(d); executive sessions, O.C.G.A. § 50-14-4.
Sec. 2-26. - Agenda.
(a)
The county manager shall prepare an agenda of subjects to be acted on for each meeting. The agenda shall be made available to the commissioners at least two business days before each board of commissioners meeting.
(b)
Members of the public may request that a particular subject be placed on the agenda for the following meeting. To be considered, this request must be submitted in writing to the county manager and must be received at least six days before the meeting.
(c)
The order in which agenda items are considered shall be determined by the county manager, unless a majority of the board votes otherwise.
(d)
The agenda item shall be placed upon the agenda only upon approval of the chair. Any commissioner may add items to the agenda at any time before the agenda is approved during the meeting. Any amendment to the agenda shall be made upon affirmative vote of at least three members of the board of commissioners.
(e)
A new subject that requires attention by the board shall be added to the agenda at the request of the chair and approved by a majority vote of the board.
(f)
A copy of the agenda shall be posted at the meeting site prior to the meeting.
State Law reference— Meeting agenda, O.C.G.A. § 50-14-1(e)(1).
Sec. 2-27. - Order of business.
All regular board of commissioners meetings should follow an established order of business. The order is as follows:
(1)
Invocation.
(2)
Pledge of allegiance to the flag.
(3)
Call to order.
(4)
Approval of minutes.
(5)
Approval of agenda.
(6)
Visitors' presentations.
(7)
Public hearings.
(8)
Old business.
(9)
New business.
(10)
Commissioner reports.
(11)
Chair report.
(12)
County manager's report.
(13)
County attorney's report.
(14)
Executive session.
(15)
Adjournment.
Sec. 2-28. - Minutes.
(a)
The clerk of the board shall promptly record the minutes for each board meeting. The minutes serve as the official written record of the board meeting and shall be open for public inspection once approved as official by the board but in no case later than immediately following the next regular meeting of the board. The minutes shall specify the names of commissioners present at the meeting, a description of each motion or other proposal made at the meeting, the commissioner who proposed each motion, the commissioner who seconded each motion, and a record of all votes. In the case of a roll-call vote, the name of each commissioner voting for or against a proposal shall be recorded. It shall be presumed that a commissioner has voted in the affirmative unless the minutes show otherwise. More detailed information may be included in the minutes at the request of the board.
(b)
The board must approve the minutes before they can be considered as an official record of the board. A copy of the minutes from the previous meeting shall be distributed to the commissioners at least two business days before the following meeting. The minutes of the previous meeting shall be corrected and approved by the board at the beginning of each meeting.
(c)
A majority vote is required for approval of the contents of the minutes. Conflicts about the content of the minutes shall be decided by majority vote. Upon being approved, the minutes shall be signed by the chair and attested to by the clerk of the board of commissioners.
State Law reference— Minutes of meetings, O.C.G.A. § 50-14-1(e)(2).
Sec. 2-29. - Decorum.
(a)
All commissioners must conduct themselves in a professional and respectful manner. All remarks should be directed to the chair and not to individual commissioners, staff or citizens in attendance. Personal remarks are inappropriate. A commissioner may not speak at a meeting until he has been recognized by the chair. All comments made by a commissioner shall address the motion that is being discussed.
(b)
The chair shall enforce these rules of decorum. If a commissioner believes that a rule has been broken, he can raise a point of order. A second is required. The chair can rule on the question or he can allow the board to debate the issue and decide the issue by majority vote of the board of commissioners.
Sec. 2-30. - Special meetings and rescheduled regular meetings.
A regular meeting may be canceled, rescheduled or moved to a new location within the county site by the chair for any reason. Other special meetings may be scheduled by the chair or at the request of two commissioners. Whenever a rescheduled regular meeting or any other special meeting is to be held at a time or place other than the regularly scheduled time or place, written notice of the change shall be posted for at least 24 hours in advance of the meeting at the place of the regular meetings. In addition, written or oral notice shall be given by the clerk at least 24 hours in advance of the meeting to either the legal organ of the county or a newspaper having a general circulation at least equal to that of the legal organ and to each member of the board of commissioners.
State Law reference— Special meetings, O.C.G.A. § 50-14-1(d).
Sec. 2-31. - Emergency meetings.
When emergency circumstances occur, the board of commissioners may hold a meeting with less than 24 hours' notice to the public. When such meetings are to be held, the clerk shall provide notice to the legal organ of the county or a newspaper with a general circulation at least equal to that of the legal organ and to each member of the board of commissioners as soon as possible. The notice shall include the subjects expected to be considered at the meeting. In addition, the minutes shall reflect the reason for the emergency meeting and the nature of the notice given to the media.
State Law reference— Emergency meetings, O.C.G.A. § 50-14-1(d).
Sec. 2-32. - Executive sessions.
(a)
Executive sessions of the board may be held for the purpose of conducting business excepted from public access requirements as authorized by O.C.G.A. §§ 50-14-2 and 50-14-3. Where a meeting of the board is devoted in part to matters within the authorized exceptions to public access requirements, any portion of the meeting not subject to any such exceptions shall be open to the public.
(b)
No executive session shall be held except pursuant to a majority affirmative vote of a quorum present at the meeting. The minutes of the public meeting shall reflect the names of the commissioners present, those voting for the executive session and the specific reasons for the executive session. Minutes of the executive session may be maintained by the clerk of the board of commissioners at the direction of the chair. Any such minutes shall be maintained in a confidential file and shall not be subject to disclosure, except that disclosures of such portions of minutes identifying real estate to be acquired by the board may only be delayed until such time as the acquisition of the real estate has been completed, terminated, or abandoned or court proceedings have been initiated. The board shall comply with any other requirements of state law.
State Law reference— Procedure when meeting closed, O.C.G.A. § 50-14-4.
Sec. 2-33. - Public participation.
Public participation in meetings of the board of commissioners shall be permitted in accordance with the provisions of this section.
(1)
Public participation on agenda items. The chair of a majority vote of the board may allow public comments on an agenda item at the time the item is being considered by the board. These comments must be limited to the subject that is being debated. Members of the public may speak for two minutes and may only speak once. Anyone wishing to speak at any board meeting must be recognized by the chair before addressing the board.
(2)
Decorum. Members of the public who disrupt or interfere with the meeting by physical action or verbal boisterous utterances that are inappropriate or offensive may be removed from the meeting at the direction of the chair. Individuals who violate any rules of the board may be ruled out of order by the chair or out of order on a point of order made by a commissioner. A majority vote of the board will rule on the point of order.
(3)
Public hearings. The board may schedule public hearings for the purpose of soliciting public comment on any subject of interest to the board. Hearings may be held at a meeting of the board or at such other places and times as the board may determine. No official action shall be taken at any such public hearing. The board shall provide no less than 15 days' notice of any public hearing.
(4)
Public presentations. Any member of the public wishing to appear before the commission shall notify the county manager in writing no less than six days prior to the meeting. The notice shall include the topic of the presentation.
Secs. 2-34—2-54. - Reserved.
