Chapter 44 - VEHICLES FOR HIRE
ARTICLE I. - IN GENERAL

Secs. 44-1—44-17. - Reserved.
ARTICLE II. - WRECKER SERVICE

Sec. 44-18. - Definitions.
Words and phrases used in this article shall have the following meanings, unless otherwise specified:
Motor vehicle has the meaning as that term is defined in the Official Code of Georgia Annotated.
Wrecker service operation means any company, firm, business or individual or group of individuals for hire by the general public which provides by any means the hauling, moving or transferring from one place to another any damaged, disabled, inoperable, operable or impounded motor vehicle.
(Res. of 8-11-1987, § 2(b), (c); Ord. of 11-14-1995, § 2; Ord. of 07-11-2017(1))
Sec. 44-19. - Penalty.
Any person, firm or corporation who shall fail to comply with the provisions of this article shall be guilty of a misdemeanor and upon conviction thereof shall be punished according to the general penalties described in section 1-9.
(Ord. of 11-14-1995, § 10; Ord. of 07-11-2017(1))
Sec. 44-20. - License required.
Any wrecker service which hauls, moves or transfers motor vehicles, operable or inoperable within the unincorporated area of the county at the request or direction of the county, its employees or any law enforcement officer, shall first obtain a license to do so from the county, before engaging in such business. The fee therefore shall be set by resolution by the board of county commissioners.
(Res. of 8-11-1987, § 1; Ord. of 11-14-1995, § 1; Ord. of 07-11-2017(1))
Sec. 44-21. - Application.
Application for a license to conduct a wrecker service operation as required under this article shall be made as provided in section 44-20, except that such application shall contain the following additional information:
(1)
Trade names used during the previous five years by the applicant and each person signing the application along with the locations of prior establishments.
(2)
The names and addresses of the owners of such business. If such business is a corporation, the names and owners of all persons owning stock in said corporation.
(3)
Such other information as may be prescribed from time to time by the county commissioners which in the judgment of the commissioners is needed to determine whether such person, firm, organization or individual sufficiently complies with all the requirements of this section.
(Res. of 8-11-1987, § 3; Ord. of 11-14-1995, § 3; Ord. of 07-11-2017(1))
Sec. 44-22. - Requirements.
The following operating requirements shall apply to all wrecker service operations and every item hereunder is a condition precedent to obtaining such a license and maintaining such license and the failure to abide by the requirements at all times shall be cause for revocation and/or denial of such license.
(1)
All such wrecker service operations shall make available to the county on a 24-hour basis, every day of the year said services when and as called for non-consensual tow services at a price not more than the established maximum service fee provided in section 44-23.
(2)
Prior to the issuance of the license required by this article and prior to the conduct of any such operations by said wrecker service, such wrecker service shall obtain and cause to be kept in force at all times during the term of any such license granted under this section, liability insurance issued by a company or companies of sound and adequate financial responsibility of the following types and minimum amounts: public liability insurance; as required by statute (federal and state) but no less than bodily injury and property damage, $500,000.00 per occurrence, single limit coverage; garage keepers legal liability insurance with limits of $100,000.00 and on the hook cargo insurance (light-duty wrecker $50,000.00; heavy-duty wrecker $100,000.00).
(3)
Said insurance policy or policies shall name the county, as a certificate holder and such policies of liability insurance shall not thereby cause the county to be deemed a partner or joint venture with the wrecker service operator in its business.
(4)
Such wrecker service operator shall also carry workers compensation insurance in the amounts and form required by the Workers Compensation Act and insurance laws of the state and shall furnish proof of same to the county board of commissioners, designated agent of the county for this purpose, prior to the granting of any license hereunder and from time to time upon request by said the county board of commissioners.
(5)
Copies of the certificates of all insurance coverage required of the wrecker service shall be filed with the county, and shall provide therein that the policies of insurance referred to in such certificates shall not be subject to cancellation by the insurer except after delivery of written notice by certified mail to the county board of commissioners at least 30 days prior to the effective date of any such cancellation.
(6)
Should the wrecker service operator fail or refuse to obtain and keep in full force and effect the insurance required by this article, the county may revoke the license provided for hereunder.
(7)
Within the area of the county (including municipalities) the wrecker service operator shall provide an area for the storage of vehicles which have been moved, hauled or transferred by the wrecker service operator at the request of the county, its employees or any law enforcement officer. All impounded motor vehicles hauled or towed by such wrecker service shall be stored in said storage facility and an office shall be maintained at the storage area for the convenience of the public in retrieving their vehicles. This office shall be available to the public on an on-call basis 24 hours every day of the year. Such facility must be maintained properly, clean and presentable at all times and shall be subject to inspection by the county sheriff's office. Failure to properly maintain facilities shall be cause for revocation of the license granted hereunder. Further, no impounded automobile hauled, moved, retrieved or transferred from one place to another by the wrecker service operator shall be stored at any place whatsoever other than a storage area which meets the following minimum requirements:
a.
Such storage area shall meet all county zoning requirements and ordinances pertaining to vehicle storage.
b.
The storage area and premises shall be kept in a clean and orderly fashion.
c.
There shall be ample space to store a minimum of 25 automobiles at the same time. The standard size automobile to be used for determining whether such storage facility meets the approval of this requirement is seven feet by 16 feet.
(8)
Services are to be rendered immediately upon request from the county 911 central dispatcher or sheriff's office employee. The wrecker service operator shall not respond to the scene of an accident unless called to the scene by the county 911 central dispatcher or sheriff's office employee. This resolution recognizes the right of an individual who is the owner of any wrecked or impounded vehicle to select his own wrecker service company provided his state of sobriety or capacity is assured and provided that said vehicle is not blocking the roadway or otherwise dangerous to the traveling public.
(9)
The wrecker service operator shall comply with and conform to all federal, state and local laws and/or rules and regulations, regarding safety now in effect or as new ones become applicable. The wrecker service owner must submit to a background police and general records check for prior offenses or irregularities to determine suitability, reliability and financial stability in order to properly protect the public against abuse, neglect or malfeasance. No person who has been convicted of a felony or any crime involving moral turpitude shall be granted a license pursuant to the terms of this section.
(10)
Prior to the issuance of any license hereunder the wrecker service operator must have and demonstrate his ownership [of] one of the following types of equipment:
a.
One each heavy-duty wrecker. A heavy-duty wrecker shall be defined as wrecker with at least 32,000 pounds minimum gross vehicle weight rating equipped with a 16 to 25 ton power take-off mechanically driven power winch crane and having independent dual booms or independent dual winches and with dual rear wheels.
b.
One each light-duty wrecker. A light-duty wrecker shall be defined as a wrecker with at least 10,000 pounds minimum gross vehicle weight rating equipped with eight 8,000 pound power take-off, power winch, per independent boom with dual rear wheels.
c.
One each roll back or car carrier may be substituted for one light-duty wrecker; a light-duty car carrier shall be defined as a wrecker with at least 10,000 pounds gross vehicle weight with dual rear wheels, power driven winch with complete hydraulic wrecker system.
(11)
Each wrecker provided hereunder shall be required to carry a full complement of service items such as fire extinguishers, chains, ropes, blocks, dollies, sports car bar, motorcycle bar, stoplights, flashers, floodlights, hand tools, lock-out tools, wrecking bars, brooms, and any other tools needed for lifting, extracting, righting and removal of a [wrecked] or disabled vehicle or other equipment from public thoroughfares by towing or carting. If at any time after the granting of the license required by this article, the wrecker service operator fails to maintain the equipment required by this section such failure shall be cause for revocation of said license. All wreckers and other equipment must be inspected annually by the county sheriff's department, and any new wrecker must be inspected prior to being put in service.
(12)
All licenses issued under this article shall be posted conspicuously in the place of business of the wreck service and in each and every heavy duty wrecker and light duty wrecker used by said operator in its wrecker services.
(Res. of 8-11-1987, §§ 2(b), 2(c), 3(c), 4; Ord. of 11-14-1995, § 4; Ord. of 07-11-2017(1))
Sec. 44-23. - Fees.
(a)
The wrecker service operator will charge the public for all services rendered at rates not greater than those set forth herein as follows:
(1)
Light duty wrecker: $125.00 maximum per hour and $31.25 every one-fourth hour thereafter.
(2)
Heavy duty wrecker: $250.00 maximum per hour and $62.50 every one-fourth hour thereafter.
(3)
Storage fees: Maximum storage fees shall be set at $25.00 per day.
(b)
Such rates shall be conspicuously posted in the wrecker service operator's place of business for the attention and information of the general public and for claimants of vehicles under wrecker service operator's care. All billings or statements of charges are to be itemized and will have clearly printed on the reverse side, the rates applicable pursuant to this article so that they may be verified by the claimant.
(Res. of 8-11-1987; Ord. of 11-14-1995, § 5; Ord. of 07-11-2017(1))
Sec. 44-24. - Telephone and radio communication.
The wrecker service operator will provide, at no cost to the county, a designated telephone number and line to be used exclusively by the county 911 central dispatcher or sheriff's office employee for the purpose of notifying a wrecker service operator whenever such wrecker service operator's services are needed.
(Res. of 8-11-1987; Ord. of 11-14-1995, § 6; Ord. of 07-11-2017(1))
Sec. 44-25. - Minimum drivers.
The wrecker service operator must submit and have available at all times at least one qualified wrecker operator with a valid driver's license issued by the State of Georgia, or, if the wrecker service maintains a wrecker having a GVW of 26,001 pounds or more, at least one qualified wrecker operator with a valid commercial driver's license (CDL). The wrecker service operator must submit a list of drivers' names, social security numbers, dates of birth, and drivers' license numbers to the county.
(Res. of 8-11-1987; Ord. of 11-14-1995, § 7; Ord. of 07-11-2017(1))
Sec. 44-26. - Wrecker services used by sheriff's department.
(a)
The county board of commissioners shall compile a list of all wrecker service operators licensed under this article which are qualified to accept calls from the county 911 central dispatcher or sheriff's office employee for the purposes of hauling or storing vehicles as those terms are defined in this article, and the county sheriff's office radio dispatcher shall contact and call and request the services only of those wrecker service operators which have been licensed pursuant to the terms of this article which is for the protection of the general public and in furtherance of its police powers. Any wreckers called by the county 911 central dispatcher or sheriff's office employee shall be required to reach the vehicle to be hauled within 30-minute periods or said dispatcher shall be authorized to call the next wrecker service operator on the list. A wrecker service will not be allowed to drive to the scene in that 30-minute period in a wrecker or other vehicle insufficient to tow the vehicle it was called to, for the purpose of giving their sufficient wrecker time to get there.
(b)
Only one wrecker service will be dispatched by the county sheriff's department to the scene of an accident. It will be at the discretion of the investigating officer to call for additional help if warranted by the circumstances of the accident; however, the wrecker service initially called from the rotational list shall be entitled to first choice of the wreckage to remove.
(Res. of 8-11-1987; Ord. of 11-14-1995, § 8; Ord. of 07-11-2017(1))
Sec. 44-27. - Solicitation.
(a)
It shall be unlawful for any employee of the county to solicit towing business of wrecked vehicles for or in behalf of any wrecker operator.
(b)
The operator of a wrecker shall at all times obey the orders and directions of members of the county sheriff's department. No operator of a wrecker shall drive his vehicle within 50 yards of any vehicle involved in an accident for the purpose of soliciting the tow of any wrecked vehicle unless:
(1)
Such action is necessary to render first aid or assistance to a motorist or to a passenger of the vehicle involved in a wreck when the wrecker arrives at the scene of an accident first; or
(2)
The wrecker operator is requested to remove the vehicle or render assistance by a county police officer.
(Res. of 8-11-1987; Ord. of 11-14-1995, § 9; Ord. of 07-11-2017(1))
Sec. 44-28. - Denial, suspension or withdrawal of license.
(a)
A license or an application for a license under this article may be denied, suspended or revoked only for due cause as defined in subsection (c) of this section. A license may be denied or suspended by the licensing officer as set forth in this article; provided, however, that a license may be revoked only after a hearing before the governing authority of the county upon a prior written notice to the applicant or licensee of the time, place and purpose of such hearing and a statement of the reason why the license is to be revoked. Three days' notice shall be deemed reasonable, but shorter or longer periods of notice shall be authorized as the board of commissioners may deem the circumstances justify. Unless the circumstances otherwise justify, the hearing shall be generally held no later than 45 days after the fully completed application is filed with the licensing officer, or after the licensing officer has suspended a license. If a license is denied by the county manager under this article, the reasons for such denial shall be set forth in writing to the applicant. The applicant shall have 30 days following receipt of notice of denial to appeal the decision of the county manager to the governing authority, which shall review such application de novo at the next regular meeting of the governing authority following receipt of any such appeal, or, at the election of said governing authority, at a special meeting within 45 days following said appeal; provided, however, that any appeal received within ten business days prior to the next regular meeting of the governing authority shall be heard at the second regularly scheduled meeting of said governing authority following receipt of said appeal. If the governing authority affirms the decision of the county manager, then the license shall be denied. If the decision of the county manager is reversed, then the license shall be issued to the applicant. Alternatively, the governing authority may elect to issue the license subject to such reasonable conditions as the governing authority deems appropriate.
(b)
The county manager may suspend a license where there is evidence of due cause under subsection (c) of this section for revoking the license. Such action by the county manager shall be reported, in writing, to the governing authority. This action shall be reviewed at the next regular meeting of the governing authority, or, at the election of said governing authority, at a special meeting within 30 days following said suspension. If the governing authority affirms the decision of the county manager, then the license shall be permanently revoked. If the decision of the county manager is reversed, then the license shall be returned to the licensee immediately. Alternatively, the governing authority may elect to return the license to the licensee subject to such reasonable conditions as the governing authority deems appropriate.
(c)
A license or application therefor under this article may be denied, suspended or revoked if one or more of the following exists:
(1)
The applicant or licensee has failed to obtain any paper, permit, approval, or document required under this article.
(2)
The applicant or licensee has supplied false information to the county manager or the governing authority.
(3)
The applicant or licensee has violated any federal, state, or local statute, ordinance, regulation, rule, or law applicable to the towing and recovery services, to include, without limitation, any provision contained in this article.
(4)
Allowing any condition relating to the towing and recovery services that endangers public health or safety.
(d)
Unless otherwise determined by the board of commissioners following a hearing as provided herein, any licensee may petition for reinstatement of any license revoked hereunder no sooner than six months from the date of revocation. Such petition shall be submitted on forms provided by the county, and shall first be reviewed by the county manager, who, following a hearing in the matter, shall make a recommendation regarding reinstatement to the board of commissioners. Said recommendation shall be nonbinding, and shall be decided by the board of commissioners following a subsequent hearing in matter.
(Ord. of 07-11-2017(1))
