APPENDIX C - TREE TRANSPLANTING
The transplanting of new trees can result in major injury to their root system. If proper transplanting techniques are employed, conditions will be more favorable for tree recovery, and the rate of attrition for newly planted trees will be reduced. Transplanting procedures must follow standards established by the International Society of Arboriculture in the Trees and Shrub Transplanting Manual, and the booklet by the Georgia Extension Service entitled "Plant Trees Right!" The following is a summary several of the more important considerations provided in the manual and booklet.
Preplanting considerations:
(1)
Only healthy trees with a well-developed root system and a well-formed top, characteristic of the species should be planted.
(2)
Trees selected for planting must be compatible with the specific site conditions.
(3)
The ability of a species to regenerate a new root system and to become reestablished should be considered. Generally, deciduous trees should be planted in the fall after leaf drop, or in early spring before bud break. There are indications that bare root trees will reestablish more readily if planted in early spring just prior to bud break.
Planting procedures:
(1)
Planting holes should be at least three times the diameter of the root ball.
(2)
Trees should not be planted deeper than they were in their former location or container.
(3)
Spade compacted bottom and sides of the planting hole should be roughed or scarified to allow the penetration of developing roots.
(4)
Good water drainage from the bottom of the planting hole is essential for root regeneration.
(5)
Once the transplanted tree is set, the hole should be backfilled with soil of good texture and structure. Traditionally, backfill material is comprised of a mix of negative soil, organic matter such as peat, and inorganic material such as perlite or vermiculite in a 1:1:1 ratio. There are indications that a backfill with native soil alone may be adequate.
(6)
The addition of fertilizer to backfill soil can cause root injury, and is therefore not recommended. If fertilizer must be added, a low rate should be used. Approximately 1.5 pounds of nitrogen per cubic yard of backfill is recommended for bare root plants, and 2.5 pounds of nitrogen per cubic yard of backfill for balled and burlapped trees.
(7)
The backfill should be gently tamped (but not compacted), and soaked for settling.
(8)
The soil should be slightly mounded to allow for settling; a ridge or dike around the perimeter of the hole can facilitate watering.
(Ord. No. 2013-10-14, App. C, 10-14-2013)
