Chapter 18 - AVIATION[1]
Footnotes:
--- (1) ---
Cross reference— Buildings and building regulations, ch. 22; businesses, ch. 26; civil emergencies, ch. 42; emergency services, ch. 54; zoning, app. A.
Related laws reference—Airport authority, art. II.
State Law reference— Aviation, O.C.G.A. § 6-1-1 et seq.; authority to acquire, construct and maintain airports, O.C.G.A. § 6-3-20 et seq.; general powers of counties and municipalities as to airports, O.C.G.A. § 6-3-25; authority to enforce police regulations in airports, O.C.G.A. § 6-3-27.

ARTICLE I. - IN GENERAL

Secs. 18-1—18-30. - Reserved.
ARTICLE II. - HENRY TIFT MYERS AIRPORT ZONING REGULATIONS
DIVISION 1. - GENERALLY

Sec. 18-31. - Scope of article.
This article shall govern the use of all land and developments thereon within all parts of the county affected thereby.
(Ord. of 6-2-75, § 3)
Sec. 18-32. - Conflicts with zoning ordinance.
This article is adopted as an amendment to the zoning ordinance of the county. In the event of conflict between the provisions of this article and the zoning ordinance, the provisions of this article shall govern and control. To the extent that this article does not conflict with the regulations contained in the zoning ordinance, the provisions of the zoning ordinance shall be applicable and supplementary hereto, and this article shall be applicable and supplementary to the county zoning ordinance.
(Ord. of 6-2-75, § 4)
Sec. 18-33. - Definitions.
The following words, terms and phrases, when used in this article, shall have the meanings ascribed to them in this section, except where the context clearly indicates a different meaning:
Airport means the Henry Tift Myers Airport, Tift County, Georgia.
Airport elevation means the highest point of an airport's useable landing area measured in feet above mean sea level.
Airport hazard means any overhead power line which interferes with radio communication between a publicly owned aircraft approaching or leaving the airport or any structure or object of natural growth which obstructs the aerial approaches or the airspace required for the flight of aircraft in landing or takeoff at such airport or otherwise is hazardous to the use of such airport for landing or takeoff of aircraft.
Airport primary surface means a surface longitudinally centered on a runway. When the runway has a specially prepared hard surface, the primary surface extends 200 feet beyond each end of that runway. The width of the primary surface of a runway will be that width prescribed in part 77 of the Federal Aviation Regulations (FAR) for the most precise approach existing or planned for either end of that runway. The elevation of any point on the primary surface is the same as the elevation of the nearest point on the runway centerline.
Airport zoning chart means a chart or map of the area affected by the airport zoning, which shows the layout of the runways, the airport boundaries and the airport elevation. The chart also sets forth the various zones with the applicable height limitations for each, and identifies topographic features such as major streams, rivers, railroads, roads and streets.
Airspace height means, for the purpose of determining the height limits in all zones set forth in this article and shown on the zoning map, the datum shall be mean sea level elevation, unless otherwise specified.
Control zone means airspace extending upward from the surface of the earth which may include one or more airports and is normally a circular area of five statute miles in radius, with extensions where necessary to include instrument approach and departure paths.
Decision height means the height at which a decision must be made during an ILS instrument approach, to either continue the approach or to execute a missed approach.
Instrument runway means a runway having an existing instrument approach procedure utilizing air navigation facilities or area type navigation equipment, for which an instrument approach procedure has been approved or planned.
Mean sea level means 355 feet.
Minimum descent altitude means the lowest altitude, expressed in feet above mean sea level, to which descent is authorized on final approach or during circle-to-land maneuvering in execution of a standard instrument approach procedure, where no electronic glide slope is provided.
Minimum enroute altitude means the altitude in effect between radio fixes which ensures acceptable navigational signal coverage and meets obstruction clearance requirements between those fixes.
Runway means a defined area on an airport prepared for landing and takeoff of aircraft along its length.
Slope means the relationship between a vertical distance and a horizontal distance perpendicular to the horizontal distance at the extremity thereof, e.g., a slope of 20 to 1 expresses the relationship of a horizontal line of 20 units measure (feet, yards, etc.) to a vertical line perpendicular thereto of one unit of the same measure (feet, yards, etc.).
Structure means any object constructed or installed by man, including, but without limitation, buildings, towers, smokestacks, and overhead transmission lines.
Visual runway means a runway intended solely for the operation of aircraft using visual approach procedures with no straight-in instrument approach procedure and no instrument designation indicated on an FAA approved airport layout plan, a military service's approved military airport layout plan, or by any planning document submitted to the FAA by a competent authority.
(Ord. of 6-2-75, § 5)
Cross reference— Definitions generally, § 1-2.
Sec. 18-34. - Airport zoning map.
(a)
In order to outline definitely the horizontal and vertical limits beyond which the projection of any structure or object of natural growth would constitute an airport hazard, the zoning administrator in conjunction with the county airport authority, the Department of Transportation and the Federal Aviation Administration shall cause to be prepared an airport zoning map which, upon completion and acceptance by the board of commissioners, shall constitute a part of this article and be incorporated in this section by reference.
(b)
Pending the submission and approval of such airport zoning map, the definite horizontal and vertical limits referred to in subsection (a) of this section may be obtained by reference to a copy of the airport layout plan of Henry Tift Myers Airport, exhibit A, and the approach plan - runway and approach profile of Henry Tift Myers Airport, exhibit B, and to the height zones and limitations set forth in this article. Exhibit A and exhibit B are incorporated in this section by reference pending submission and approval of the airport zoning map referred to in subsection (a) of this section.
(Ord. of 6-2-75, § 6)
Secs. 18-35—18-50. - Reserved.
DIVISION 2. - ADMINISTRATION AND ENFORCEMENT

Sec. 18-51. - Zoning administrator; duties.
The county zoning administrator, as provided for in the county zoning ordinance, is hereby designated as the zoning administrator of this article and charged with the duty of administering and enforcing the regulations prescribed in this article. Notwithstanding the foregoing, the board of commissioners, at their discretion, may enforce the regulations and provisions of this article. The duties of the zoning administrator shall include that of hearing and deciding all permits as provided for in this article, but the zoning administrator shall not have and shall not exercise any of the powers and duties delegated to the board of appeals.
(Ord. of 6-2-75, § 13)
Sec. 18-52. - Board of appeals; powers.
The county board of zoning appeals shall exercise, with respect to this article, the same powers as are granted to it in the county zoning ordinance as set forth in appendix A of this Code.
(Ord. of 6-2-75, § 14)
Sec. 18-53. - Appeals.
(a)
Any person aggrieved; any taxpayer affected; or any office, department, board or bureau of any political subdivision affected by any decision of the zoning administrator made in his administration or enforcement of this article, may appeal such decision to the board of appeals. Such appeal must be taken within 30 days of such decision by filing with the zoning administrator and with the board of appeals a notice of appeal specifying the grounds of such appeal. The zoning administrator shall forthwith transmit to the board of appeals all papers and documents constituting the record upon which the action appealed from was taken.
(b)
An appeal shall stay all proceedings in furtherance of the action appealed from, unless the zoning administrator certifies to the board of appeals, after notice of appeal has been filed with it, that by reason of the facts stated in the certificates, such facts would, in his opinion, cause imminent peril to life or property. In such case, proceedings shall not be stated otherwise than by a restraining order which may be granted by a court of record on due cause shown.
(c)
The board of appeals shall fix a reasonable time for a hearing of the appeal, give public notice and due notice to the parties in interest and decide the appeal within a reasonable time. Upon the hearing any party may appear in person, by agent or by attorney.
(d)
The board of appeals may, in conformity with the provisions of this article and applicable law, reverse or affirm, wholly or in part, or modify the order, requirement, decision or determination appealed from and may make such order, requirement, decision or determination as ought to be made. To that end, the board of appeals shall have all the powers of the zoning administrator from which the appeal is taken.
(e)
The concurring vote of a majority of the members of the board of appeals shall be sufficient to reverse any order, requirement, decision or determination of the zoning administrator or to decide in favor of the applicant in any manner upon which it is required to pass under this article, or to effect any variation in this article.
(Ord. of 6-2-75, § 15)
Sec. 18-54. - Judicial review.
Any person aggrieved by any decision of the board of appeals; any taxpayer affected; or any office, department, board, bureau of any political subdivision may, within 30 days after the filing of the decision in the office of the board of appeals, appeal such decision to the county superior court.
(Ord. of 6-2-75, § 16)
Sec. 18-55. - Enforcement of article by civil action.
The zoning administrator and/or the board of commissioners may institute, in any court of competent jurisdiction, an action to prevent, restrain, correct or abate any violation of this article or of any order or ruling made in connection with the administration or enforcement of this article.
(Ord. of 6-2-75, § 18)
Sec. 18-56. - Criminal penalty for violation of article.
In addition to other responsibilities under this article, the zoning administrator shall promptly report to the appropriate judicial, sheriff, and police officials violations of the provisions of this article, the Airport Zoning Act, or any order or ruling promulgated or made pursuant to this article which may constitute a violation of 1946 Georgia Laws, page 121.
(Ord. of 6-2-75, § 17)
Secs. 18-57—18-80. - Reserved.
DIVISION 3. - REGULATIONS

Sec. 18-81. - Height zones and limitations.
(a)
Horizontal zone. The horizontal zone shall include all land lying under a horizontal plane 150 feet above the established airport elevation. The perimeter of the horizontal zone is determined by swinging arcs of 10,000 feet radii from the end of each of the perimeter surfaces of each end of each runway and by connecting the adjacent arcs by lines tangent to such arcs. No structure or object of natural growth shall be permitted in the horizontal zone that would penetrate such horizontal plane by extending 150 feet above the established airport elevation of 355 feet above mean sea level.
(b)
Conical zone. The conical zone shall include all land lying under a plane extending outward and upward from the periphery of the horizontal plane at a slope of 20 to 1, for a horizontal distance of 4,000 feet. No structure shall be permitted in the conical zone area that would penetrate the conical plane.
(c)
Approach zones. Approach zones include the land lying on a plane longitudinally centered on the extended runway centerline and extended outward and upward from each end of the primary surface. An approach zone is applied to each end of each runway based upon the type of approach for the runway end as follows:
(1)
The inner edge of the approach surface is the same width as the primary surface of each runway, and the outer edge of the approach surface is 1,500 feet for runways 3, 9 and 21 and 3,500 feet for runways 15, 27 and 33.
(2)
The approach zone extends for a horizontal distance of 5,000 feet for runways 3, 21 and 9, and 10,000 feet for runways 15, 27 and 33.
(3)
The slopes for the approach zones are 20 to 1 for runways 3, 21 and 9, and 34 to 1 for runways 15, 27 and 33.
No structure shall be permitted in any approach zone that would penetrate the slope for the particular runway.
(d)
Transitional zone. The transitional zone contains the land lying under the planes extending outward and upward at right angles to the runway centerline and the runway centerline extended at a slope of 7 to 1 from the sides of the primary surface and from the sides of the approach surface. No structure shall be permitted that would penetrate the transitional zone.
(e)
Primary surface. The primary surface includes an area with respect to each runway, the length of which is the length of the runway along the centerline thereof plus 200 feet on each end thereof along such centerline, and the width of which, measured from such centerline, is 500 feet for all runways and which extends vertically upward perpendicular from the ground indefinitely. No structure or object of natural growth shall be allowed within the primary surface area. For purposes of measurement and determination of other zones covered hereby, the elevation of any point in the primary surface is the same as the elevation of the nearest point on the runway centerline.
(f)
Structures. No structure shall be permitted within three statute miles of the airport which would raise an existing published minimum descent altitude or decision height for any instrument approach to any runway at the airport, nor shall any structure be permitted within such three mile radius that would raise or increase the enroute altitude.
(Ord. of 6-2-75, § 7)
Sec. 18-82. - Use restrictions.
Notwithstanding any other provisions of this article or the county zoning ordinance, no use may be made of any land or water within a three-statute-mile radius of the airport in such a manner as to interfere with the operation of an airborne aircraft. The following special requirements shall apply to each permitted use:
(1)
All lights or illumination used in conjunction with streets, parking, signs or land and structures shall be arranged and operated in such a manner that it is not misleading or dangerous to aircraft operating from the airport or in the vicinity thereof.
(2)
No operation from any use shall produce smoke, glare or other visual hazards within three statute miles of any runway of the airport.
(3)
No operations from any use within three-statute-mile radius shall produce electronic interference with navigational signals or radio communication by the airport and aircraft.
(Ord. of 6-2-75, § 8)
Sec. 18-83. - Nonconforming use.
The regulations prescribed in this article shall not be construed to require the removal, lowering or other change or alteration of any structure or object of natural growth not conforming to this article as of the effective date of the ordinance from which this section derives, or to otherwise interfere with the continuance of any nonconforming use. Nothing contained in this article shall require any change in the construction, alteration or intended use of any structure, the construction or alteration of which was begun prior to the effective date of the ordinance from which this section derives.
(Ord. of 6-2-75, § 9)
Sec. 18-84. - Changes in nonconforming structures or objects of natural growth.
Notwithstanding the provisions of section 18-83 or any other provisions of this article, before any nonconforming structure or object of natural growth may be replaced, substantially altered or repaired, rebuilt, allowed to grow higher, or replanted, a permit must be secured from the zoning administrator authorizing such replacement, change or repair. No such permit shall be granted that would allow the structure or object of natural growth in question to be made higher or become a greater hazard to air navigation than it was when this article was adopted. Whenever the zoning administrator determines that a nonconforming structure or object of natural growth has been abandoned or more than 80 percent torn down, destroyed, deteriorated or decayed:
(1)
No permit shall be granted that would allow the structure or object of natural growth to exceed the applicable height limit or otherwise deviate from this article.
(2)
Whether application is made for a permit under this section or not, the zoning administrator may by appropriate action compel the owner of the nonconforming structure or object of natural growth, at such owner's expense, to lower, remove, reconstruct or equip such structure or object as may be necessary to conform to this article; or, if the owner of the nonconforming structure or object of natural growth shall neglect or refuse to comply with such order for ten days after notice thereof, the zoning administrator may proceed to have the object so lowered, removed, reconstructed or equipped, and assess the cost and expense thereof upon the owner of the structure, and/or the land upon which it is located. Unless such assessment is paid within 90 days from the service of such notice to the agent or owner of such object, structure or land, the sum shall bear interest at the rate of seven percent per annum until paid and shall be collected in the same manner as are general taxes. Except as indicated, all applications for permits for replacement, change or repair of nonconforming uses shall be granted. However, in granting any such permit, the zoning administrator may, if he deems such action advisable to effectuate the purposes of this article and as reasonable under the circumstances, condition such variance so as to require the owner of the applicable structure or object of natural growth to permit the county or other state, federal or local agency of government at its own expense to install, operate and maintain suitable obstruction markers and observation lights upon such structure or object of natural growth.
(Ord. of 6-2-75, § 10)
Sec. 18-85. - Lighting.
Notwithstanding the provisions of this article, the owner of any structure over 200 feet above ground level must install on such structure lighting in accordance with Federal Aviation Administration Advisory Circular 70/7460-1C and amendments thereto.
(Ord. of 6-2-75, § 11)
Sec. 18-86. - Variances.
(a)
Any person desiring to erect any structure, to increase the height of any structure, to permit the growth of any object of natural growth, or otherwise use his property in a manner which is in violation of or not in accordance with this article may apply to the county board of zoning appeals, hereafter known as board of appeals, for a variance to the standards and regulations set forth in this article.
(b)
No application for a variance to the regulations and requirements of this article shall be considered by the board of appeals unless a copy of the application has been furnished to the county airport authority for advice as to the aeronautical effects of any such variance. If the county airport authority does not respond to the application for a variance within 15 days after receipt, the board of appeals may act on its own to grant or deny such application.
(c)
Variances shall be allowed where a literal application or enforcement of this article's provisions will result in practical difficulty and unnecessary hardships and the relief granted would not be contrary to the public interests but would be in accordance with the spirit of this article.
(d)
In granting any variance the board of appeals may, if it deems such action advisable to effectuate the purposes of this article and as reasonable under the circumstances, condition such variance so as to require the owner of the applicable structure or object of natural growth to permit the county or other state, federal or local agency of government, at its own expense, to install, operate and maintain suitable obstruction markers and observation lights upon such structure or object of natural growth.
(Ord. of 6-2-75, § 12)
