ARTICLE V. - BOARD OF ANIMAL CONTROL

Sec. 14-201. - Creation.
There is established by the Tift County Board of Commissioners, the Tifton City Council, the Omega City Council and the Ty Ty City Council an animal control board of the county/city, hereafter the "board".
(Res. No. 2004-17, 10-12-04)
Sec. 14-202. - Purpose of board.
The purpose of the board shall be to hear and determine matters submitted to the board pursuant to the state Dangerous Dog Control Law (O.C.G.A. §§ 4-8-20—4-8-29), and to determine such other matters as shall be provided from time to time by ordinance of the county/city.
(Res. No. 2004-17, 10-12-04)
Sec. 14-203. - Membership.
The board shall consist of three members and one alternate board member to serve when any board member cannot serve. The board of commissioners of Tift County shall appoint members of the board who shall be residents of the county and the city. The term of office of each member position of the board shall be on a calendar year basis for a three-year period with members subject to removal with or without cause by a majority vote of the board of commissioners of Tift County prior to the end of their term of office. The initial appointments of the board shall be accomplished in such manner as to provide for three-year staggered terms. Initial appointment for one member and alternate shall be for one year. Initial appointment for one board member shall be two years. The initial term for one board member shall be three years. Thereafter, all terms shall be for three years.
(Res. No. 2004-17, 10-12-04)
Sec. 14-204. - Compensation.
Members of the board shall receive no compensation for their services.
(Res. No. 2004-17, 10-12-04)
Sec. 14-205. - Meetings.
Meetings of the board shall be held from time to time as necessary for the board to perform its duties and responsibilities. All meetings of the board shall be open to the public and shall be held in accordance with the requirements of state law relative to open public meetings.
(Res. No. 2004-17, 10-12-04)
Sec. 14-206. - Disqualification of members.
(a)
No member of the board shall participate in connection with any hearing or any decision involving classification or nonclassification pursuant to the provisions of the State Dangerous Dog Control Law with respect to any dog of which the member has a personal knowledge, other than as a member of the board, with such member being disqualified from participating with such matter.
(b)
Should any member of the board have any personal or financial interest or relationship with respect to any animal, owner, matter or issue pending before the board or otherwise be closely associated with any animal, owner, matter or issue pending before the board, then such member should declare a conflict of interest in connection with such matter or issue.
(c)
Any member of the board shall be entitled to raise a question of a potential disqualification of any other member who has not disqualified himself whereupon, following such consideration as the board shall deem appropriate, the board shall determine by the majority vote of those members (three members and one alternate) who are not subject to potential disqualification in connection with such matter or issue whether each such member is or is not disqualified.
(Res. No. 2004-17, 10-12-04)
Sec. 14-207. - Duties and responsibilities.
(a)
The board shall hear and determine such issues and matters as it shall be authorized from time to time by law or by ordinance of the county/city, including specifically determination of matters provided in O.C.G.A. § 4-8-24 and other provisions of the State Dangerous Dog Control Law as now enacted and subsequently amended from time to time.
(b)
The board shall have such additional duties, responsibilities and powers as shall be specifically provided from time to time by ordinance adopted by the board of commissioners.
(Res. No. 2004-17, 10-12-04)
Sec. 14-208. - Rules and regulations.
The board shall recommend such rules, policies, procedures and regulations for the transaction of its business and for consideration and determination of issues and matters before the board as it deems necessary, subject to prior approval by the county manager.
(Res. No. 2004-17, 10-12-04)
Sec. 14-209. - Selection of chairman and vice-chairman.
The board shall select from among its members a chairman who shall preside at meetings and hearing of the board and vice-chairman who shall preside at meetings and hearings of the board in the absence or disqualification of the chairman.
(Res. No. 2004-17, 10-12-04)
Sec. 14-210. - Secretary of board—Designation.
The secretary of the board shall be such person or official as shall from time to time be designated by the board chairman to perform the functions of secretary of the board.
(Res. No. 2004-17, 10-12-04)
Sec. 14-211. - Same—Duties.
The secretary of the board or his designee shall:
(1)
Prepare and conduct all correspondence of the board;
(2)
Receive and file all correspondence to the board;
(3)
Receive and file all requests for hearings before the board and other applications;
(4)
Receive and file all transmittals to the Board from the animal control officer and other public officials;
(5)
Review and evaluate all requests, applications and filings to and with the board for compliance with the rules and regulations of the board and notify those filing the same of any noncompliance therewith;
(6)
Following consultation with the chairman and to the extent necessary the other members of the board, schedule hearings and meetings of the board in accordance with applicable laws and ordinances and the rules and regulations of the board;
(7)
Prepare and maintain a calendar and docket of proceedings before the board;
(8)
Prepare and submit to members of the board at least 24 hours prior to a scheduled hearing an agenda therefore, as well as copies of all requests and other filings made in connection with each such proceedings;
(9)
Determine all notices to be given in connection with proceedings before the board and cause such notices to be given to those entitled thereto;
(10)
Attend all meetings and hearings of the board;
(11)
Retain and maintain all evidence presented in connection with matters before the board;
(12)
Prepare and maintain minutes of proceedings of the board indicating therein all significant information, matters and facts pertaining thereto. Including specifically all motions, votes and decisions of the board, together with the vote of each member upon each such motion, vote and decision including those absent, disqualified or failing to vote thereon with such other matters as shall be pertinent to the activities of the board;
(13)
Retain and maintain all minutes, records, files and notices of the board;
(14)
Maintain a minutes book of the board in which shall be recorded by date, owner and animal and record of the decision of the board;
(15)
At hearings before the board attempt to obtain the name and address of all persons, who shall present any evidence, testimony or opinions, make any statement to the board or present any argument in connection with matters before the board;
(16)
Obtain transcriptions of hearings before the board upon the direction of the chairman of the board and the approval of the county manager;
(17)
Notify those persons entitled thereto of decisions of the board; and
(18)
Perform such other duties with respect to the activities of the board as shall be directed from time to time by the board and approved by the county manager.
(Res. No. 2004-17, 10-12-04)
Sec. 14-212. - Authority.
The board shall have no authority or power other than as specifically provided from time to time by law or by ordinance and, without limiting the generality of the foregoing, shall have no authority, right or power to expend any funds, to direct the activities of any employee or official of the county/city, except solely the secretary of the board, if applicable, and then only to the extent specifically provided in this division, or to contract for or on behalf of either itself or the county/city.
(Res. No. 2004-17, 10-12-04)
Sec. 14-213. - Legal assistance.
The county/city attorney shall be the legal advisor and representative of the board and shall render such legal assistance to the board as shall be necessary.
(Res. No. 2004-17, 10-12-04)
Sec. 14-214. - Transmittal of record.
Promptly upon the filing of any request for a hearing pursuant to the provisions of the State Dangerous Dog Control Law, and in no event later than seven days thereafter, the animal control officer shall transmit to the secretary of the board all documents and records (or complete copies thereof certified by the animal control officer) of the animal control officer relative to the dog in issue and the owner of the dog in issue.
(Res. No. 2004-17, 10-12-04)
Sec. 14-215. - Repealer.
The adoption of this Resolution No. 2004-17 shall serve to repeal all animal control ordinances in place at the time of adoption as well as any terms or provisions of other ordinances of the county and cities inconsistent with this resolution.
(Res. No. 2004-17, 10-12-04)
