ARTICLE VII. - STATE COURT[10]

Footnotes:
--- (10) ---
Editor's note— Printed herein is 1971 Ga. Laws, page 2468 which established the State Court of Tift County. Amendments to the act are indicated by parenthetical history notes following amended provisions. The absence of a history note indicates that the provision remains unchanged from the original act. Obvious misspellings have been corrected without notation. For stylistic purposes, a uniform system of headings, catchlines and citations to state statutes has been used. Additions made for clarity are indicated by brackets.
Code reference—Courts, ch. 50.
State Law reference— State courts of counties, O.C.G.A. § 15-7-1 et seq.

Section 1. - Creation; location; jurisdiction generally.
There is hereby created the State Court of Tift County, which shall be located in the City of Tifton in Tift County, Georgia. Said court shall have territorial jurisdiction over the entire County of Tift.
Section 2. - Jurisdiction specified.
The State Court of Tift County shall have jurisdiction within the limits of Tift County concurrent with the superior court of said county to try and dispose of all civil cases or proceedings of whatever nature, whether arising ex contractu or ex delicto under the common law or by statute and over which jurisdiction is not vested by the constitution and laws of the State of Georgia exclusively in any other court, without regard to the amount in controversy. Said state court shall have criminal jurisdiction in the County of Tift over all misdemeanor cases, but shall not have any jurisdiction over felony cases. The accused in criminal proceedings in said court shall not have the right to indictment by a grand jury, and criminal cases shall be processed in said court upon an accusation brought in the name of the State of Georgia or upon such misdemeanor indictments as may be transferred to it by the Superior Court of Tift County.
Section 3. - Judge—Election; term; commissioned by governor; oath.
There shall be a judge of said court who shall be elected by the voters of Tift County as hereinafter provided. Persons voting in such election shall be only persons qualified and registered to vote for members of the general assembly in said county. The first judge so elected shall serve for a term beginning upon the date of his commissioning by the governor and ending December 31, 1974. At the general election in 1974, a judge of said court shall be elected, and he shall take office January 1, 1975, for a term of four years and until his successor is elected and qualified. Future successors shall be elected at the general election each four years thereafter and shall likewise serve a term of four years and until their successors are elected and qualified. Any incumbent in said office may succeed himself. The judge of said court shall be commissioned by the governor and before entering the duties of his office, shall take substantially the same oath which judges of superior courts must take, and the oath shall be administered by the judge of Tift Superior Court. The oath shall be that prescribed by O.C.G.A. § 45-3-1.
Section 4. - Same—Qualifications; compensation.
In order to be eligible to be elected judge of said state court, a person at the time of said election must have been a resident of Tift County continuously for the three (3) years immediately preceding said appointment or election, must be a licensed attorney at law, and must have been a practicing attorney for at least five (5) years immediately preceding such appointment or election. Such person must also be at least twenty-five (25) years of age.
The judge of said court shall be prohibited during the term of his office from engaging in the practice of law in the State Court of Tift County but may practice in any other court. He shall be compensated by an annual salary to be fixed by the Board of Commissioners of Tift County and to be not less than $10,000.00, and which salary shall be paid from the general fund of said county in 12 monthly installments. The Board of Commissioners of Tift County shall, prior to February 15 of each calendar year, fix the salary of such judge for such calendar year provided that such salary shall not be less than the minimum hereinbefore stated.
Section 5. - Same—Power and authority.
The judge of said court is hereby granted the same power and authority as are now held and which may hereafter be granted judges of the superior courts of this state within the limitations of this Act and laws of general application of the State of Georgia. All laws now or hereafter enacted relating to and governing judges of the superior courts shall apply to the judges of the State Court of Tift County insofar as the same may be applicable, unless inconsistent with the provisions of this Act.
The judge of said court shall discharge all the duties required of him by the constitution and laws for the State Court of Tift County for which he was elected or appointed and shall also exercise all judicial functions for said court as permitted by law. The State Court of Tift County shall have authority:
(a)
to exercise original, exclusive, or concurrent jurisdiction (as the case may be) of all cases, both civil and criminal, granted to them by the constitution and laws;
(b)
to punish contempt by fines not exceeding $200.00 and by imprisonment not exceeding 20 days;
(c)
to exercise such other powers not contrary to the constitution as are or may be given to courts of similar jurisdiction by law.
Section 6. - Same—Disability; substitute; compensation.
In the event the judge of said court is temporarily unable to discharge the duties of his office due to providential cause, or if he is for any cause disqualified or prevented from presiding in any case in said court, he shall obtain a judge to preside during such disability in accordance with Article VI, Section V, Paragraph I of the Constitution of the State of Georgia or in accordance with O.C.G.A. § 15-1-9.1, relating to judges. The compensation and expenses of said judge while serving said court shall be set by the Board of Commissioners of Tift County to be paid from the same funds from which other officers of the court are paid.
Section 7. - Solicitor—Election; term; oath; duty.
There shall be a solicitor of said court who shall be elected by the voters of Tift County as hereinafter provided. Persons voting in such election shall be only persons qualified and registered to vote for members of the general assembly in said county. The first solicitor elected shall serve for a term beginning upon the date of his commissioning by the governor and ending December 31, 1974. At the general election in 1974, a solicitor of said court shall be elected and he shall take office January 1, 1975, for a term of four years and until his successor is elected and qualified. Future successors shall be elected at the general election each four years thereafter and shall likewise serve a term of four years and until their successors are elected and qualified. Any incumbent in said office may succeed himself. The solicitor of said court shall be commissioned by the governor and before entering the duties of his office shall take substantially the same oath which district attorneys of the superior courts must take, and the oath shall be administered by a judge of Tift Superior Court. It shall be the duty of the solicitor to prosecute all criminal cases in said court.
Section 8. - Same—Qualifications; compensation.
In order to be eligible to be elected solicitor of said court, a person must have resided in Tift County for one (1) year immediately preceding such election, and must be a licensed attorney at law engaged in the active practice of law, for at least three (3) years immediately preceding such appointment or election. The solicitor is hereby authorized to practice law in any court except the criminal division of the State Court of Tift County. The solicitor shall be compensated by an annual salary to be fixed by the Board of Commissioners of Tift County and to be not less than $8,000.00, and which salary shall be paid from the general fund of said county in 12 monthly installments. The Board of Commissioners of Tift County shall, prior to February 15 of each calendar year, fix the salary of such solicitor for such calendar year, provided that such salary shall not be less than the minimum hereinabove stated.
Section 9. - Same—Substitute's compensation and expenses.
In the event the solicitor, due to providential cause or otherwise, is temporarily unable to discharge the duties of his office, the judge of the State Court of Tift County is hereby authorized to appoint an attorney of Tift County, who is qualified under section 8 hereof, to perform the duties of the solicitor until such time as the solicitor is able to perform such duties. The compensation and expenses of said attorney while serving as solicitor shall be set by the Board of Commissioners of Tift County to be paid from the same funds from which other officers of the court are paid.
Section 10. - Election of judge and solicitor; organized by probate court judge.
A special election for election of the first judge and the first solicitor of this court shall be called by the probate court judge of Tift County within ten (10) days after the effective date of this Act. Said election shall be held not less than thirty (30) days nor more than forty (40) days after the date of the election call. Candidates for the respective offices shall qualify for their respective posts with the probate court judge within ten (10) days after the date of the election call. All expenses in connection with this election shall be paid from the general funds of Tift County. The probate court judge shall cause the date and purpose of the election to be published once a week for two weeks immediately preceding the date thereof, in the official organ of Tift County. It shall be the duty of the probate court judge to hold and conduct such election. He shall hold such election under the same laws and rules and regulations as govern special elections, except as otherwise provided herein. It shall be the duty of the probate court judge to canvass the returns and declare and certify the result of the election. It shall be his further duty to certify the result thereof to the Secretary of State.
Section 11. - Vacancies in offices of judge and solicitor; filled by special election.
In the event of a vacancy in the office of judge of this court or in the event of a vacancy in the office of solicitor of this court by reason of death, resignation or any other cause, and in the absence of a duly qualified and elected successor, any such vacancy shall be filled by a special election in the same manner and by the same procedure as provided in Section 10 hereof, except that said special election shall be called by the probate court judge of Tift County within ten (10) days after such vacancy occurs. Any person so elected to fill such a vacancy shall take office on the date of his commissioning by the governor and shall serve out the unexpired term of the person vacating said office.
Section 12. - Sheriff of court—Compensation; oath of office; bond.
The sheriff of Tift County and his deputies shall also act as sheriff and deputy sheriffs of the State Court of Tift County. The sheriff of Tift County shall be compensated for his duties as sheriff of the State Court of Tift County at an annual salary to be fixed by the Board of Commissioners of Tift County and to be not less than $6,000.00, payable in 12 monthly installments, in addition to all compensation provided by law to be paid to the sheriff of Tift County. The Board of Commissioners of Tift County shall, prior to February 15 of each calendar year, fix the salary of such sheriff for such calendar year, provided that such salary shall not be less than the minimum hereinabove stated.
Said sheriff and his deputies, before entering upon their duties of office, shall each take oath to faithfully and impartially perform the duties thereof, which oath shall be entered upon the book of minutes of said court. The sheriff shall also give a bond with at least two sureties in the sum of $10,000.00, conditioned for the faithful performance of his duties as sheriff by himself, his deputies and his jailers and upon the terms required by law. Said bond shall be subject to examination, approval, recording and filing as set forth in O.C.G.A. §§ 15-16-6 and 15-16-7, except that the presiding judge of the State Court of Tift County shall pass on the conformity and sureties instead of the judge of the superior court.
(1989 Ga. Laws, page 4275)
Section 13. - Same—Requirements, duties, powers and authority.
All the requirements and duties, powers and authority imposed by law and conferred upon the sheriff of Tift County shall be obligatory upon and shall be vested in the sheriff of said State Court of Tift County, respectively, except where inconsistent with or limited by the provisions of this Act defining the jurisdiction of said court.
Section 14. - Clerk of court—Duties; oath; bond; appointment; qualification and election of successor; compensation.
There shall be a clerk of said State Court of Tift County who shall be the clerk of the Superior Court of Tift County. The clerk of the State Court of Tift County shall have the same right and authority to appoint deputy clerks of said court as may be applicable to the appointment of deputy clerks of the superior courts. Said clerk shall perform in said State Court of Tift County the same duties that by law are required of him as an officer and clerk of the superior court, so far as the same does not conflict with the provisions of this Act.
Said clerk and his deputies, before entering upon the duties of their offices, shall each take oath to faithfully and impartially perform the duties thereof, which oath shall be entered on the book of minutes of said court. The clerk shall also give a bond, with at least two sureties in the sum of $10,000.00, conditioned for the faithful performance of his duties as clerk by himself and his deputies, and upon the terms required by law.
The clerk of the Tift County Superior Court at the time of the enactment of this Act shall automatically, and without further appointments, be appointed the clerk of the State Court of Tift County. Qualifications and election of a successor as clerk of the Tift County Superior Court shall constitute election to the office of clerk of the State Court of Tift County.
The clerk shall be compensated at an annual salary to be fixed by the Board of Commissioners of Tift County and to be not less than $6,600.00 per annum, payable in 12 monthly installments, in addition to all compensation provided by law to be paid to the clerk of the Tift County Superior Court. The Board of Commissioners of Tift County shall, prior to February 15 of each calendar year, fix the salary of such clerk for such calendar year, provided that such salary shall not be less than the minimum hereinabove stated.
(1989 Ga. Laws, page 4275)
Section 15. - Same—Deputy clerks.
The deputy clerks of the Superior Court of Tift County are hereby appointed as deputy clerks of the State Court of Tift County and, as such, shall exercise all the functions and be subject to all the responsibilities and requirements of the clerk of the State Court of Tift County.
Section 16. - Same—Requirements, duties, powers and authority.
All the requirements and duties, powers, and authority imposed by law and conferred upon the clerks of superior courts of this State shall be obligatory upon and shall be vested in the clerk of said State Court of Tift County, except where inconsistent with or limited by the provisions of this Act defining the jurisdiction of said court.
Section 17. - Court of record; seal; minutes; records; other books and files kept.
Said State Court of Tift County shall be a court of record, and shall have a seal, and the minutes, records and other books and files that are required by law to be kept for the superior court, shall, in the same manner, so far as the jurisdiction of said State Court of Tift County may render necessary, be kept in and for said court; provided, that the clerk of said court shall not be required to keep a book of final records but shall see that the records are preserved in suitable files with all original papers in each case, which shall not be removed from said clerk's office except under provisions of law for removal of such records and documents from the Tift County Superior Court or upon order of the judge of said State Court of Tift County.
Section 18. - Warrants, summary processes and writs.
All warrants, summary processes, and writs issuing out of said State Court of Tift County shall be returnable to said court (unless required by law to be returnable to a superior court) in the same manner and under the same rules as such writs are required to be returned to the superior courts or the justice courts of this state, as the case may be.
Section 19. - Practice and procedure.
The laws and rules of pleading, practice and procedure and evidence applicable to the superior courts of this state as they now exist, and as they may hereafter be amended, shall be the rules which govern pleading, practice, procedure and evidence of the State Court of Tift County, except as otherwise provided for in this Act.
Section 20. - Promulgation of rules and regulations.
The judge of the State Court of Tift County is hereby empowered to promulgate rules and regulations allowing a defendant charged with a traffic offense to make bond, appear and dispose of said case under such rules and regulations so promulgated.
Section 21. - Terms; setting dates.
The terms of court of the State Court of Tift County shall begin on the first Monday in February, May, August and November of each year. Unless otherwise provided by order of the judge of said court appearing on the minutes thereof, each term shall run until the first day of the next succeeding term. The judge of said court shall make rules for the presentation of civil and criminal matters to the court in an orderly and efficient schedule and shall further set dates for guilty pleas, and noncontested and nonjury matters in a like manner.
Section 22. - Juries—Selection.
All laws now or hereafter in force with reference to the drawing, selecting and summoning of traverse jurors to serve in the Tift County Superior Court shall apply to said State Court of Tift [County], except that a separate list shall be prepared by the clerk of said State Court of Tift County containing the names of traverse jurors selected by the jury commissioners of Tift County.
The clerk of said state court shall write upon separate tickets the names of all traverse jurors upon the traverse jury list for the Tift County Superior Court. These tickets shall be placed in a box prepared for that purpose and from it shall be drawn as many jurors as are necessary in the opinion of the judge of said state court to conduct the business of said state court for the terms for which they are drawn.
Section 23. - Same—Qualifications; disqualifications; challenging; compensation.
All laws now or hereafter in force with reference to the qualifications, disqualifications and challenging for cause of jurors in the superior courts of this state shall apply in the State Court of Tift County. Compensation for jurors serving in said court shall be at the same rate and upon the same conditions as for traverse jurors serving in the Tift County Superior Court as now exist or may hereafter be of force, whether established by a Tift County grand jury or otherwise.
Section 24. - Same—Numbers; strikes.
All jury trials in said court shall be by a jury of twelve (12) jurors, and said trial jury shall be selected from a panel of twenty-four (24) jurors. Each side in all civil actions being tried by a jury shall be entitled to six (6) peremptory strikes from such panel of twenty-four (24), and the remaining twelve (12) jurors shall serve as the trial jury. In all criminal matters being tried by a jury, the state shall be entitled to five (5) peremptory strikes and the defendant shall be entitled to seven (7) peremptory strikes from such panel of twenty-four (24) jurors and the remaining twelve (12) jurors shall serve as the trial jury.
Section 25. - Same—Waiver.
Any civil or criminal case in such court may be tried by the judge thereof without a jury at the discretion of the judge and upon consent of the parties thereto.
Section 26. - Court reporter; appointment; compensation; rules of reporting.
The judge of the State Court of Tift County shall appoint an official court reporter for said court in compliance with the provisions of Georgia law now or hereafter of force relative to the appointment of court reporters for the superior courts of this state, and such court reporter shall be compensated under the rules of law now or hereafter applicable to compensation of court reporters in the superior courts. The rules of reporting civil and criminal matters now or hereafter in force in the superior courts of this state shall apply in the State Court of Tift County.
Section 27. - Appeals.
The rules of appellate practice and procedure that are applicable to cases appealed from the superior courts of this state shall be the rules which govern appeal from the State Court of Tift County.
Section 28. - Law library to be supplied by state librarian.
The state librarian is hereby authorized to furnish to said court a set of the reports of the Supreme Court of Georgia and a set of the reports of the Court of Appeals of Georgia, and a set of Georgia Laws with no cost to said court or to Tift County except shipping charges.
Section 29. - Sales or property levied under process.
All sales or property levied upon under process from the State Court of Tift County shall be conducted in the same manner as such sales are conducted under the processes of the Tift County Superior Court.
Section 30. - Costs.
The rate and scale of costs in cases in the State Court of Tift County shall be the same as the rate and scale of costs in the Tift County Superior Court. The rules for assessment and collection of costs shall also be the same as those in the Tift County Superior Court. All fines, fees, costs and other monies assessed as costs of proceedings in such court shall be collected by the proper officers of said court and shall be paid into the appropriate fund of Tift County in the same manner as are monies collected by the Tift County Superior Court, and shall become and be the money and property of Tift County.
Section 31. - Excess and unclaimed monies.
Excess and unclaimed monies, property or other goods coming into the hands of any officer of said court shall be delivered or otherwise disposed of as is now or hereafter provided for the payment, delivery and disposition of such funds and property in the Tift County Superior Court.
Section 32. - Quarters to be secured, provided and furnished; supply of clerical help.
The Board of Commissioners of Tift County shall as soon as practicable after the approval of this Act, secure, provide and furnish adequate quarters for said court, including an office for the judge thereof and shall also make available such books, office supplies, and such other materials as to sufficiently conduct the business of the court.
The Board of Commissioners of Tift County shall also be empowered to furnish such clerical help as may be proper or necessary to efficiently conduct the business of the court.
Section 33. - Operative date.
Upon this Act becoming effective, the State Court of Tift County shall be immediately clothed with the authority herein provided and upon appointment of the officers and their taking the proper oath, and when required, giving bond, all officers thereof shall be immediately clothed with the authority herein provided and the court shall immediately function as to the filing of complaints, motions, accusations and other pleadings and the conducting of all matters of the court's business in chambers or otherwise.
Section 34. - Applicability of state law.
Except as is otherwise herein provided and when not inconsistent with the provisions of this Act, the present provisions of Georgia law having statewide applicability relative to the functions, authority and operation of the state courts of the various counties in this state, shall apply to the State Court of Tift County.
Section 35. - Payment of salaries of court officers.
The salaries of the judge, solicitor, sheriff and clerk of such court and all other costs of such court shall be paid by the Board of Commissioners of Tift County from the funds of Tift County.
Section 36. - Appointment of bailiffs; compensation.
The judge of such court may appoint in his discretion as many bailiffs of such court as he deems necessary for the efficient operation of same and such bailiffs shall receive the same compensation as received by bailiffs of the Superior Court of Tift County.
