ARTICLE III. - DEVELOPMENT AUTHORITY[3]
Footnotes:
--- (3) ---
Code reference—Development authority, § 2-286 et seq.
State Law reference— Development Authorities Law, O.C.G.A. § 36-62-1 et seq.; resource Recovery Development Authorities Law, O.C.G.A. § 36-63-1 et seq.; Georgia Development Authority Act, O.C.G.A. § 50-10-1 et seq.

DIVISION 1. - CREATION, POWERS AND PURPOSE[4]

Footnotes:
--- (4) ---
Editor's note— Printed herein is 1960 Ga. Laws, page 1240 which amended Art. VII, Sec. V, Par. I of the state constitution to create and establish the Tift County Development Authority. The constitutional amendment was continued in force and effect by 1987 Ga. Laws, page 3533. Amendments to the act are indicated by parenthetical history notes following amended provisions. The absence of a history note indicates that the provision remains unchanged from the original act. Obvious misspellings have been corrected without notation. For stylistic purposes, a uniform system of headings, catchlines and citations to state statutes has been used. Additions made for clarity are indicated by brackets.

Section A. - Creation.
There is hereby created a body corporate and politic in Tift County to be known as the Tift County Development Authority, which shall be an instrumentality of Tift County and a public corporation and which in this amendment is hereafter referred to as the `Authority;'
Section B. - Members.
The Authority shall consist of five members. The President of the Tift County Chamber of Commerce, the Chairperson of the Tifton City Commission, and the Chairperson of the Tift County Board of Commissioners shall be ex officio members of the Authority. In addition the Board of Commissioners of Tift County shall appoint two members who shall serve for a term of five years and shall be eligible for reappointment. Vacancies shall be filled for the unexpired term by the said Board of County Commissioners. A majority of the members shall constitute a quorum and a majority may act for the Authority in any matter. No vacancy shall impair the power of the Authority to act.
Section C. - Property.
The property, obligations and the interest on the obligations of the Authority shall have the same immunity from taxation as the property, obligations and interest on the obligations of Tift County.
Section D. - Powers.
The powers of the Authority shall include but not be limited to, the power:
(1)
To buy, acquire, develop, improve, own, operate, maintain, sell, lease as lessor and lessee, and mortgage land, buildings and property of all kinds within the limits of Tift County;
(2)
To receive and administer gifts, grants and donations and to administer trusts;
(3)
To grant, loan and lease any of its funds and property to private persons and corporations promising to operate any industrial plant or establishment within Tift County which in the judgment of the Authority will be of benefit to the people of said county. The provisions of this clause shall not be construed to limit any other powers of the Authority;
(4)
To borrow money and to issue notes, bonds and revenue certificates therefor and to sell, convey, mortgage, pledge and assign any and all of its funds, property and income as security therefor;
(5)
To contract with Tift County and other political subdivisions and with private persons and corporations and to sue and be sued in its corporate name;
(6)
To have and exercise usual powers of private corporations except such as are inconsistent with this amendment, including the power to appoint and hire officers, agents and employees and to provide their compensation and duties, which officers and agents may or may not be members of the Authority, and the power to adopt and amend a corporate seal and bylaws and regulations for the conduct and management of the Authority;
(7)
To encourage and promote the expansion of industry, agriculture, trade and commerce in Tift County, and to make long range plans therefor;
(8)
To accumulate its funds from year to year and to invest accumulated funds in any manner that public funds of the State of Georgia or any of its political subdivisions may be invested;
(9)
To designate officers to sign and act for the Authority generally or in any specific matter;
(10)
To do any and all acts and things necessary or convenient to accomplish the purpose and powers of the Authority as herein stated.
Section E. - Debts.
The Authority shall not be authorized to create in any manner any debt, liability or obligation against the State of Georgia or Tift County;
Section F. - Tort liability.
The Authority shall have the same immunity and exemption from liability for torts and negligence as the State of Georgia and the officers, agents and employees of the Authority when in performance of the work of the Authority, shall have the same immunity and exemption from liability for torts and negligence as the officers, agents and employees of the State of Georgia when in performance of their public duties or work of the State. The Authority may be sued the same as private corporations on any contractual obligation of the Authority;
Section G. - Compensation.
The members of the Authority shall receive no compensation for their services to the Authority;
Section H. - Bonds.
The Authority, with the consent of the Board of Commissioners of Tift County is hereby authorized to issue Revenue Certificates to carry out the purposes of this amendment. Revenue Certificates, thus issued, shall be paid from the income of the Authority;
Section I. - Funds.
The Commissioners of Tift County are authorized to appropriate to the Authority such amount from its funds each year as it shall see fit, and any funds so appropriated when paid to the Authority shall become a part of its funds and may be used by the Authority in accordance with its powers and purposes as herein stated or as may be hereafter defined by law;
Section J. - Property exempt from levy.
The property of the Authority shall not be subject to levy and sale under legal process except such property, income or funds as may be pledged, assigned, mortgaged or conveyed to secure an obligation of the Authority, and any such property, funds or income may be sold under legal process or under any power granted by the Authority to enforce payment of the obligation;
Section K. - Purpose of amendment.
This amendment is adopted for the purpose of promoting and expanding for the public good and welfare of Tift County and its citizens, industry, agriculture and trade within the County of Tift, and making long range plans for such development and expansion and to authorize the use of public funds of Tift County for such purposes, and this amendment and any law enacted with reference to the Authority shall be liberally construed for the accomplishment of this purpose;
Section L. - Effective date.
This amendment shall be effective immediately upon proclamation of its ratification by the Governor and the first members of the Authority shall be appointed within thirty days after such proclamation;
Section M. - Additional powers and duties.
The General Assembly may by law further define and prescribe the powers and duties of the Authority and the exercise thereof, and may enlarge and restrict the same, and may likewise further regulate the management and conduct of the Authority. The Authority shall be an instrumentality of Tift County, and the scope of its operations shall be limited to the territory embraced within Tift County. The General Assembly shall not extend the jurisdiction of the Authority nor the scope of its operations beyond the limits of Tift County;
Section N. - Debt.
There shall be no limitation upon the amount of debt which the Authority may incur, but no debt created by the Authority shall be a debt of Tift County.
DIVISION 2. - SUPPLEMENTAL POWERS AND DUTIES[5]

Footnotes:
--- (5) ---
Editor's note— Printed herein is 1963 Ga. Laws, page 3191 which further defined and enlarged the powers and duties of the authority. Amendments to the act are indicated by parenthetical history notes following amended provisions. The absence of a history note indicates that the provision remains unchanged from the original act. Obvious misspellings have been corrected without notation. For stylistic purposes, a uniform system of headings, catchlines and citations to state statutes has been used. Additions made for clarity are indicated by brackets.

Section 1. - Definitions.
As used in this Act, the following words and terms shall have the meanings respectively ascribed to them unless a different meaning clearly appears from the context:
(a)
The word "authority" shall mean the Tift County Development Authority created by the amendment to Article VII, Section V, Paragraph I of the Constitution of the State of Georgia approved on March 7, 1960 (1960 Ga. Laws, page 1240) and thereafter duly ratified and proclaimed.
(b)
The word "project" shall be deemed to mean and include the acquisition of lands, properties and improvements for development, expansion and promotion of industry, commerce, agriculture, trade, commerce, natural resources and vocational training; the construction of buildings and plants for the purpose of selling, leasing or renting such structures to private persons, firms or corporations.
(c)
The term "cost of project" shall embrace the cost of construction, the cost of all lands, properties, easements, rights and franchises acquired, the cost of machinery and equipment, financing charges, interest prior to and during construction and for one year after completion of construction, cost of engineering, inspection, fiscal agents, architectural and legal expenses, and plans and specifications and other expenses necessary or incident to determining the feasibility or practicability of the project, administrative expenses, and such other expenses as may be necessary or incident to the financing herein authorized, the construction of any project and placing the same in operation.
Section 2. - Officers.
The members of the Authority shall elect a chairperson and vice-chairperson, both of whom shall be members, and a secretary-treasurer or secretary and treasurer, both of whom may but neither of whom shall be required to be a member of the authority.
Section 3. - Powers.
The authority shall have powers:
(a)
To acquire, hold and dispose of personal properties of every description, including the stock of other corporations, for its corporate purposes;
(b)
To buy, acquire, develop, improve, own, operate, maintain, sell, lease as lessor and lessee, and mortgage land, buildings and property of all kinds within the limits of Tift County, for its corporate purposes;
(c)
To receive and administer gifts, grants and donations; administer trusts; and enter into trust indentures, for its corporate purposes;
(d)
To grant, loan and lease any of its funds and property to private persons and corporations promising to operate any industrial plant or establishment within Tift County which in the judgment of the authority will be of benefit to the people of said county;
(e)
To borrow money and to issue notes, bonds and revenue certificates therefor and to sell, convey, mortgage, pledge and assign any and all of its funds, property and income as security therefor;
(f)
To contract with Tift County and other political subdivisions and with private persons and corporations and to sue and be sued in its corporate name;
(g)
To have and exercise usual powers of private corporations except such as are inconsistent with this amendment, including the power to appoint and hire officers, agents and employees and to provide their compensation and duties, which officers and agents may or may not be members of the authority, and the power to adopt and amend a corporate seal and bylaws and regulations for the conduct and management of the authority;
(h)
To acquire in its own name by purchase, on such terms and conditions, and in such manner as it may deem proper, real property or liens or easements therein or franchises necessary or convenient for its corporate purposes, and to use the same, and to lease or make contracts with respect to the use of or dispose of same in any manner the authority deems to its best advantage. If the authority shall deem it expedient to construct any project or use any project already constructed on lands, the title to which shall then be in the County of Tift or the City of Tifton, the governing authorities of Tift County and the City of Tifton are authorized in their discretion to convey title to such lands, including any improvements thereon, to the authority;
(i)
To make contracts, and to execute all instruments necessary or convenient, including contracts for construction of projects and leases and rentals and sale of projects, or contracts with respect to the use of projects which it erects or acquires;
(j)
To construct, erect, acquire, own, repair, remodel, maintain, extend, improve, equip, operate and manage projects, self-liquidating or otherwise, located on property owned or leased by the authority, and to pay the cost of any such project from the proceeds of revenue bonds, notes and other obligations of the authority or from any grant from the County of Tift or City of Tifton, or from any contribution or loans by persons, firms or corporations, all of which the authority is hereby authorized to receive and accept and use;
(k)
To borrow money for any of its corporate purposes and to execute notes, mortgages, revenue bonds, deeds to secure debt, trust deeds and such other instruments as may be necessary or convenient to evidence and secure such borrowing;
(l)
To exercise any power granted by the laws of the State of Georgia to public or private corporations, performing similar functions, which is not in conflict with the Constitution and laws of the State of Georgia;
(m)
To issue revenue bonds for the purpose of defraying all or any part of the cost of any project of the authority and have the same validated in the Superior Court of Tift County in the same manner as revenue bonds of municipalities and counties are validated under the Revenue Bond Law (1957 Ga. Laws, page 36) amending the law formerly known as the Revenue-Certificate Law of 1937 (1937 Ga. Laws, page 761) providing for the issuance and validation of revenue-anticipation certificates;
(n)
To exercise any and all of its powers to expand or enlarge any existing industrial plant or establishment within Tift County which is the judgment of the authority will benefit the people of Tift County;
(o)
To take over and acquire the assets and activities and assume and pay all outstanding notes and other obligations of the Tifton Industrial Corporation, an organization heretofore incorporated by the Superior Court of Tift County, Georgia, and operated for purposes similar to the functions for which this authority was created;
(p)
To encourage and promote the expansion of industry, agriculture, trade and commerce in Tift County, and to make long range plans therefor;
(q)
To accumulate its funds from year to year and to invest accumulated funds in any manner that public funds of the State of Georgia or any of its political subdivisions may be invested;
(r)
To designate officers to sign and act for the authority generally or in any specific matter;
(s)
To do any and all acts and things necessary or convenient to accomplish the general purposes of the authority and carrying out the powers expressly conferred by this Act and the constitutional amendment by and through which the said authority was created.
Section 4. - Creation of debts against state or county.
The authority shall not be authorized to create in any manner any debt, liability or obligation against the State of Georgia or Tift County.
Section 5. - Immunity and exemption from liability for torts and negligence.
The authority shall have the same immunity and exemption from liability for torts and negligence as the State of Georgia and the officers, agents and employees of the authority when in performance of the work of the authority, shall have the same immunity and exemption from liability for torts and negligence as the officers, agents and employees of the State of Georgia when in performance of their public duties or work of the State. The authority may be sued the same as private corporations on any contractual obligation of the authority.
Section 6. - Compensation.
The members of the authority shall receive no compensation for their services to the authority.
Section 7. - Property; exempt from taxation.
All properties of every kind owned by the authority, all notes, bonds and other obligations issued by the authority and all interest thereon shall be exempt from taxation and shall have the same immunities from taxation as the properties, obligations and interest on obligations of Tift County.
Section 8. - Contracts.
The County of Tift, the City of Tifton and other political subdivisions of the State of Georgia are expressly authorized to enter into contracts with the authority as a public corporation.
Section 9. - Use of funds.
The [Board of] Commissioners of Tift County are authorized to appropriate to the authority such amount from its funds each year as it shall see fit, and any funds so appropriated when paid to the authority shall become a part of its funds and may be used by the authority in accordance with its powers and purposes as herein stated or as may be hereafter defined by law.
Section 10. - Levy or sale of property.
The property of the authority shall not be subject to levy and sale under legal process except such property, income or funds as may be pledged, assigned, mortgaged or conveyed to secure an obligation of the authority, and any such property, funds or income may be sold under legal process or under any power granted by the authority to enforce payment of the obligation.
Section 11. - Bonds and other obligations—Generally.
All bonds and other obligations issued by the authority may be sold at public or private sale; shall bear such date or dates; mature at such time or times, not exceeding 30 years from their respective dates; bear interest at such rate or rates, not exceeding nine percent (9%) per annum; be in such denominations; carry such registration privileges; be subject to such redemption privileges, and contain such terms, covenants, assignments and conditions as the resolution or other proceedings authorizing the issuance thereof may provide; all of which shall be binding upon the authority and its successors.
(1969 Ga. Laws, page 2874; 1976 Ga. Laws, page 2740)
Section 12. - Same—Confirmation and validity.
In the event no bill of exceptions, to any order or judgment of the Superior Court of Tift County validating any issue or issues of bonds issued or to be issued by the authority, is filed within the time prescribed by law, or, if filed, such judgment is affirmed by the appropriate appellate court of this State, the judgment of the Superior Court of Tift County confirming and validating the issuance of such bonds shall be forever conclusive as to the validity of such bonds and the security for the payment thereof and interest thereon against the authority and all parties contracting with the authority. All of such bonds and interest thereon so issued by the authority are hereby declared to be tax exempt for any and all purposes.
Section 13. - Incurring debt.
There shall be no limitation upon the amount of debt which the authority may incur, but no debt created by the authority shall be a debt of Tift County.
Section 14. - Auditing of books and records.
The books and records of the authority shall be audited at least annually, at the expense of the authority, by a competent auditor.
Section 15. - Intent of article.
This Act being for the purpose of developing and promoting the public good and the welfare of the County of Tift and the City of Tifton and their inhabitants, shall be liberally constructed to effect the purposes hereof.
DIVISION 3. - TAXATION AUTHORITY[6]
Tift County is hereby authorized to levy a tax, in addition to those already provided for by law, not to exceed two mills, on all the taxable property in the county, for the purposes of creating a fund to be used by the Tift County Development Authority in accordance with its powers and purposes. The governing authority of said county shall turn over the funds derived from the levy and collection of the taxes herein provided for to the Tift County Development Authority to be used to encourage and promote the expansion of industry, agriculture, trade and commerce in Tift County in accordance with the powers and purposes of the Tift County Development Authority. The provisions of this amendment are self-executing to the extent that no action on the part of the General Assembly of Georgia shall be necessary to effectuate the purposes of this amendment and the powers herein conveyed upon the governing authority of Tift County may be exercised immediately upon the ratification of this amendment.
Footnotes:
--- (6) ---
Editor's note— Printed herein is 1965 Ga. Laws, page 736 which amended Art. VII, Sec. IV, Par. I of the state constitution to authorize the county to levy a tax to create a fund to be used by the development authority in accordance with its powers and purposes. That constitutional amendment was continued in force and effect after July 1, 1987 pursuant to 1987 Ga. Laws, page 3535. Amendments to the act are indicated by parenthetical history notes following amended provisions. The absence of a history note indicates that the provision remains unchanged from the original act. Obvious misspellings have been corrected without notation. For stylistic purposes, a uniform system of headings, catchlines and citations to state statutes has been used. Additions made for clarity are indicated by brackets.
