CHAPTER 17.08 - DEFINITIONS

Sections:
17.08.010 - Interpretation of certain words and terms.
Except as specifically defined in this Chapter, all words used in this Title have their customary dictionary definitions. For the purpose of this Title, certain words or terms used are defined as follows:
A.
Words used in the present tense include the future tense. Words used in the singular include the plural and words used in the plural include the singular.
B.
The word "shall" is always mandatory.
C.
The word "person" includes a firm, association, organization, partnership, trust, company or corporation as well as an individual.
D.
The word "lot" includes the word "plot" or "parcel."
E.
The word "building" includes the word "structure."
F.
The word "used" or "occupied," as applied to any land or building, shall be construed to include the words "intended, arranged or designed to be used or occupied."
G.
The word "map" or "zoning map" means the "official zoning map" of the City.
H.
"Assisted Care Living Facility" (ACLF) is a group of dwelling units specifically created for and marketed to the elderly where at least one (1) daily meal is prepared or served at a central location within the facility. This use differs from nursing homes in that the occupants are primarily housed in individual one (1) or two (2) bedroom units and nursing care is limited.
(Ord. No. 98-02-16G, § 1, 2-16-1998; Ord. No. 04-12-06-B, § I, 12-6-2004; Ord. No. 08-01-22(C), § I, 1-22-2008)
17.08.020 - Definitions.
Except as specifically defined in this Chapter, all words used in this Title have their customary dictionary definitions. For the purpose of this Title, certain words or terms used are defined as follows:
Accessory use or building means a use or building customarily incidental and subordinate to the principal use or building and located on the same lot therewith.
Alley means a public or private thoroughfare which affords only a secondary means of access to abutting property.
Boarding house means a building, where for compensation, both lodging and meals are provided for not more than twenty (20) persons, provided that a single-family dwelling shall not be deemed to be a boarding house by reason of a contribution to or expense sharing arrangement with the owner or tenant occupying the dwelling by a person related by blood or marriage. For purposes of this code section a hotel, motel, halfway house, rooming house, group home, educational dormitory, or nursing home shall not be deemed a "boarding house."
Buffer Strip. A "buffer strip" is that portion of a lot set aside for open space and/or visual screening purposes, pursuant to applicable provisions of this Title, to separate different use districts, or to separate uses on one property from uses on another property of the same use district or a different use district.
Building means any structure attached to the ground having a roof supported by columns or by walls and intended for shelter, housing or enclosure of persons, animals or personal property.
Building, Height of. "Height of building" means the vertical distance measured from the grade to the highest point of the coping of a flat roof to the deck lines of a mansard roof; or to the mean height level between the eaves and ridge of a gable, hip or gambrel roof.
Grade is defined as the average elevation of the ground on all sides of a building.
Building, Principal. "Principal building" means a building in which is conducted the principal use of the lot on which such building is situated. In any residential district, any structure containing a dwelling unit shall be defined to be the principal building on the plot on which same is situated.
"Building setback line" means a line establishing the minimum allowable distance between the main or front wall of the building and the street right-of-way line when measured perpendicularly thereto. Covered porches, whether enclosed or not, shall be considered as a part of the building and shall not project into the required yard.
Center Line of Street. The "center line of a street" is the line surveyed and monumented by the City or Georgia Department of Transportation; if a center line has not been surveyed and monumented, it shall be that line running midway between the outside curbs or ditches of the street.
Church means a permanent building where persons regularly assemble for religious worship.
"Curb cut" means any interruption or break in the line of a street curb for the purpose of connecting a driveway to a street, or otherwise to provide vehicular access to abutting property.
"Day care" means an establishment operated by any person with or without compensation providing for the care, supervision, and protection of seven (7) or more children who are under the age of eighteen (18) years for less than twenty-four (24) hours per day, without transfer of legal custody.
Disabled. The term "disabled" shall have the same definition as "handicapped" as set forth in the Fair Housing Act, 42 U.S.C. § 3602(h), and shall mean:
a.
A physical or mental impairment which substantially limits one (1) or more of such person's major life activities;
b.
A record of having such impairment; or
c.
Being regarded as having such impairment, but such term does not include the current, illegal use or addiction to a controlled substance or the current addiction to alcohol.
"Dwelling" means a building, other than a mobile home or house trailer, designed, arranged or used for permanent living and/or sleeping quarters.
Dwelling, Multi-Family. "Multi-family dwelling" means a building designed for or occupied exclusively by three (3) or more families with separate housekeeping facilities for each family.
Dwelling, Single-Family. "Single-family dwelling" means a building designed or arranged to be occupied by one (1) family only.
"Dwelling unit" means a building, or portion thereof, designed, arranged and used for living quarters for one (1) family, but not including units in structures designed for transient residence.
"Family" means one (1) or more related persons occupying a dwelling unit and living as a single or two (2) housekeeping units; or four (4) or less unrelated persons occupying a dwelling and living as a single housekeeping unit, as distinguished from persons occupying a boarding house, rooming house or hotel, as defined in this Chapter.
Group home means any dwelling unit designed for single-family occupancy and occupied by no more than eight (8) disabled individuals. For purposes of this code section the term "group home" shall not include the operation of a boarding house, rooming house or halfway house. In addition to disabled persons, up to two (2) additional persons acting as house parents or guardians may reside in a group home.
Half-way house means any building occupied by a group of not more than eight (8) unrelated individuals, provided that the majority of the occupants shall meet at least one (1) of the following criteria:
a.
Is on parole or probation, or has been ordered to reside in such type of facility as part of the criminal sentencing;
b.
Has been convicted of a felony and has completed his or her sentence;
c.
Is being treated at the facility for drug and/or alcohol dependency; or
d.
Is undergoing treatment for drug and/or alcohol rehabilitation.
"Home occupation" means any use, occupation or activity conducted entirely within a dwelling by the residents thereof, which is clearly incidental and secondary to the use of the dwelling for residence purposes and does not change the character thereof, and in connection with which there is no display, no stock-in-trade nor commodity sold or stored in the premises, and no person not a resident on the premises is employed specifically in connection with the home occupation. Provided further, that no mechanical equipment is installed or used except such as is normally used for domestic purposes, and that not more than fifteen (15) percent of the total heated floor space of any dwelling is used for such home occupation. Home occupation shall include the use of premises by a physician, dentist, lawyer, clergyman or other professional person for consultation or emergency treatment, but not for the general practice of the profession.
"Junk yard" means a lot, parcel or tract of land and/or structure wherein the collection or accumulation of new and/or old, solid and/or broken, and/or pieces of equipment (e.g., appliances, automobile or such other materials) whether for sale for business and/or private use, and/or storage or any other use whatsoever, takes place whether it constitutes the principal or accessory use of land on the premises.
Lot. For zoning purposes, as reflected in this regulation, "lot" means a parcel of land of at least sufficient size to meet minimum zoning requirements for use, coverage and area, and to provide such yards and other open spaces as are herein provided. Such lot shall front on a public street and may consist of:
1.
A single lot of record;
2.
A portion of a lot of record;
3.
A combination of complete lots of record, of complete lots of record and portions of lots of record, or of portion of lots of record;
4.
A parcel of land described by metes and bounds.
Lot, Corner. "Corner lot" means a lot abutting upon two (2) or more streets at their intersection.
"Lot, cul-de-sac" means any lot which has any portion of its road frontage abutting a cul-de-sac.
"Lot depth" means the mean horizontal distance between front and rear lot lines.
Lot, Double Frontage. "Double frontage lot" means any lot, other than a corner lot, which has frontage on two (2) streets.
Lot Line, Front. "Front lot line" means the front property line coincident with a street right-of-way line.
"Lot of record" means a lot which is part of a subdivision, a plat of which has been recorded in the records of the clerk of superior court of Henry County; or a parcel of land, the deed of which has been recorded in the same office as of the effective date of this Title 17.
"Lot width" means the distance between side lot lines measured at the right-of way, except that the width of a cul-de-sac lot shall be measured at the building setback line.
"Major street" means an existing or proposed street or highway designated as a major street on the official zoning map of the City.
"Mobile home" means a single-family dwelling unit equipped with wheels, skids or rollers, which may be mounted on a stationary foundation and is used or designed to be used for permanent living or sleeping quarters.
"Mobile home park" means any parcel of land upon which two or more mobile homes occupied for dwelling purposes are located.
"Nonconforming use" means any building or use of land or building lawfully existing at the effective date of this Title 17 or as a result of subsequent amendments to this Title 17, which does not conform with the provisions of the regulations for the district in which it is located.
"Nursery or kindergarten school" means any building used routinely for the daytime care or education of pre-school age children and including all normal accessory and play areas.
"Nursing home" means any building in which aged, chronically ill or incurable persons are housed and furnished with meals and nursing care for compensation.
"Parking space" means an area having paved dimensions of not less than one hundred eighty (180) square feet with a minimum width of ten (10) feet, the exclusive purpose of which is the parking of a vehicle.
Rooming house means a building, other than a motel or hotel, where for compensation, lodging only is provided for not more than twenty (20) persons. For purposes of this code section a hotel, motel, halfway house, boarding house, group home, educational dormitory, or nursing home shall not be deemed a "rooming house."
"Shopping center" means a group of commercial establishments planned, developed, owned and managed as a unit with off-street parking provided on the property, and related in its location, size and type of shops to the trade area which the unit serves.
"Street" means a dedicated or accepted public right-of-way which affords the principal means of access to abutting properties.
"Street line" means the dividing line between a lot, tract or parcel of land and a contiguous street.
"Structure" means anything constructed or erected, the use of which requires more or less permanent location on the ground or which is attached to something having more or less permanent location on the ground.
"Yard" means a space on the same lot with a principal building, open, unoccupied and unobstructed by buildings or structures from ground to sky, except where encroachments and accessory buildings are expressly permitted.
Yard, Front. "Front yard" means a yard extending across the front of a lot between the side yard lines, and being the minimum horizontal distance between the street line and the principal building or any projections thereof other than projections of uncovered steps.
Yard, Rear. "Rear yard" means a yard extending across the rear of a lot between the side lot lines and being the minimum horizontal distances between the rear of the principal building or any projections thereof other than the projections of uncovered steps.
Yard, Side. "Side yard" means a yard between the main building and the side yard of the lot, and extending from the front lot line to the rear yard, and being the minimum horizontal distance between a side lot line and the side of the principal buildings or any projections thereto.
(Zoning Ord. Art. 4 (part), § 10, 1979; Ord. No. 01-08-20R, § 5, 8-20-2001; Ord. No. 04-12-06-B, § I, 12-6-2004; Ord. No. 08-01-22(C), § I, 1-22-2008; Ord. No. 08-12-29, §§ I, II, 12-29-2008)
