CHAPTER 15.12 - MOVING OF BUILDINGS

Sections:
15.12.010 - Definitions.
For the purposes of this chapter, a "move in structure" means a pre-existing structure to be moved from its location on a parcel of real estate and relocated to another parcel of real estate.
(Ord. of 4-2-1984, § 1-1)
15.12.020 - Permit requirements.
A.
Except as provided in this section, no application for a move in permit shall be approved, nor any structure moved prior to completion of all the requirements of this chapter.
B.
All persons, firms or corporations desiring a permit to move a structure into the city shall file an application with the community development department director on forms provided by the city and pay the fees as required by ordinance.
C.
Before the granting of a move in permit, the planning commission shall hold a public hearing thereon after giving 15 days' notice of the time and place of the hearing which notice shall be published once a week for three weeks in the official organ of Henry County. Within three working days after the filing of the application for a permit, the community development department director shall erect a sign on the property where the move in structure will be relocated within ten feet of whatever boundary line of such property abuts the most traveled public road. The sign shall show the scheduled date, time, and place of the public hearing, and the telephone number to call for further information.
D.
No move in permit shall be approved until a complete inspection of the structure is made by the building official or his/her designee to determine if the structure, when construction has been completed after same has been moved, will comply with all existing codes and ordinances of the city. The inspection of the structure shall be approved by the building official or his/her designee before the hearing is held as provided in subsection C. of this section.
E.
Upon approval of the move in permit, the applicant shall apply for a building permit, and pay the fees provided by ordinance. No move in structure shall be moved into the city until the building permit has been approved.
F.
All applications for permits provided herein shall be made in the name of the owner of the property where the structure will be relocated.
G.
The community development department director, as a condition precedent to the issuance of a building permit, shall require a performance bond or bank escrow letter of surety in the amount of $25,000.00, made payable to the city to guarantee that the owner will complete the construction of the house, building or structure within 90 calendar days in full compliance with all building codes. In the event the structure is not completed within 90 calendar days or is not complete in compliance with all building codes, the owner shall be deemed in default in its performance of its obligations pertaining to said house, building, or structure, and the bond or bank escrow letter of surety shall be forfeited to the city. The owner shall thereafter be given the option of moving the structure off of the property within ten business days or completing the structure within 30 calendar days so that it complies with all existing codes and ordinances of the city. The owner may utilize the funds represented by the bond or letter of surety to complete either of these options. The city administrator/city manager may release portions of the funds represented by the bond or letter of surety to accommodate the owner in commencing one of these options and to further accommodate the owner with the completion thereof. Should the owner complete one of these options within the time required for the completion of each as set forth herein, the remaining funds represented by the bond or letter of surety shall be released by the city administrator/city manager or his/her designee. Failure to complete either of these options within the time required herein shall result in the forfeiture of the remaining portions of the bond or letter of surety to the city. Failure to thereafter remove the structure shall be deemed a violation or this title and shall be punishable as provided by section 1.08.010 of this Code.
(Ord. of 4-2-1984, §§ 1-2—1-8; Ord. of 10-3-1995, § 2(part); Ord. No. 04-04-19, § I, 4-19-2004; Ord. No. 05-02-07A, § 21, 2-7-2005; Ord. No. 05-11-07(B), § 3, 11-7-2005; Ord. No. 06-05-01(A), § 22, 5-1-2006)
