CHAPTER 17.04 - INTRODUCTORY PROVISIONS

Sections:
17.04.010 - Purpose of provisions.
The ordinance codified in this Title 17 is an ordinance regulating the location, height, bulk, number of stories and size of buildings and other structures; the percentage of lots which may be occupied; the sizes of yards, courts and other open spaces; the density and distribution of populations; and the uses of buildings, structures and land for trade, industry, residences, recreation, agriculture, public activities and other purposes; creating districts for said purposes and establishing the boundaries thereof; defining certain terms used in this Title; providing for the method of administration, amendment and enforcement and for the imposition of penalties for violation; providing for a board of appeals and defining the powers and duties; repealing conflicting ordinances; and for other purposes.
(Zoning Ord. Art. 1, 1979)
Editor's note— An editorial note in the previous publication indicates that this section was amended during the 1997 codification.
17.04.020 - Preamble and enactment clause.
In pursuance of authority conferred by Georgia General Planning and Zoning Enabling Act of 1957 (Georgia Laws, 1957, p. 420 as amended), for the purpose of promoting the health, safety, morals, convenience, order, prosperity or general welfare of the present and future inhabitants of the municipality; in accordance with a comprehensive plan designed to lessen congestion in the streets; to secure safety from fire, panic and other dangers; and to provide adequate light and air; to prevent the overcrowding of land; to avoid undue concentration of population; to facilitate the adequate provision of transportation, water, sewerage, schools, parks and other public requirements, being made with reasonable consideration, among other things, of the character of the district and its peculiar suitability for particular uses and with a view to promoting desirable living conditions and the sustained stability of neighborhoods; protecting property against blight and depreciation; securing economy in governmental expenditures; conserving the value of buildings and encouraging the most appropriate use of land, buildings and other structures throughout the municipality, the governing body of the City does ordain and enact into this code the following chapters and sections.
(Zoning Ord. Art. 2, 1979)
17.04.030 - Short title.
The ordinance codified in this Title 17 shall be known and may be cited as "the Zoning Ordinance of the City of McDonough, Georgia."
(Zoning Ord. Art. 3, 1979)
Temporary Supplemental page 244, amending section 17.08.010, Ordinance 98-02-16G.
