ARTICLE VIII. - STERILIZATION OF DOGS AND CATS IN SHELTERS

Sec. 10-81. - Policy.
The board of commissioners finds that the breeding of dogs and cats acquired from animal shelters, animal control agencies, humane societies or public and private animal refuges results in the birth of thousands of animals who become strays, suffer privation and death, constitute a public nuisance and health hazard, and ultimately, are impounded and destroyed at great public expense.
(Res. No. 2005-13, 7-5-05)
Sec. 10-82. - Sterilization of dogs and cats required; exceptions; costs.
(a)
Any public or private animal shelter, animal control agency, humane society or public or private animal refuge shall make provisions for the sterilization of all dogs or cats acquired from such shelter, agency, society or refuge by:
(1)
Providing sterilization by a licensed veterinarian before relinquishing custody of the animal.
(2)
Entering into a written agreement with the person acquiring such animal guaranteeing that a licensed veterinarian will perform sterilization within 30 days after acquisition of an adult animal or in the case of an immature animal within 30 days of the sexual maturity of the animal.
(b)
All costs of sterilization pursuant to this section shall be the responsibility of the person acquiring such animal and, if performed before acquisition, may be included in any fees charged by the shelter, agency, society or refuge for such animal.
(c)
Any person acquiring an animal which is not sterile from a public or private animal shelter, animal control agency, humane society or public or private animal refuge shall submit a signed statement from the licensed veterinarian performing the sterilization within seven days after such sterilization attesting that such sterilization has been performed.
(d)
Every public or private animal shelter, animal control agency, humane society or public or private animal refuge offering for sale or exchange any dog or cat shall maintain a current list of veterinarians who have notified the shelter, agency, society, or refuge that they are willing to perform sterilizations and the cost for such procedures.
(e)
The requirements of this section shall not apply to any privately owned animal which any such shelter, agency, society, or refuge may have in its possession for any reason if the owner of such animal claims or presents evidence that such animal is the property of such person.
(Res. No. 2005-13, 7-5-05)
Sec. 10-83. - Penalty for noncompliance.
A person, partnership, firm, corporation or other entity violating any of the requirements of this chapter shall be subject to the penalties as hereinafter set out in section 10-101 (penalties). In the alternative, and in the discretion of the animal control officer, the person may be cited with a violation of state law, and be guilty of a misdemeanor if convicted.
(Res. No. 2005-13, 7-5-05; Res. No. 2007-33, 10-2-07)
Secs. 10-84—10-90. - Reserved.
