ARTICLE X. - PENALTIES[3]

Footnotes:
--- (3) ---
Editor's note— Res. No. 2006-16, adopted April 4, 2006, repealed the former art. X, § 10-101, and enacted a new art. X as set out herein. The former art. X pertained to similar subject matter and derived from Res. No. 2005-13, adopted July 5, 2005.

Sec. 10-101. - Penalty
(a)
Any person(s) found guilty of any violation in chapter 10, animals, and cited pursuant to state law, and with the matter referred to the county superior court or county state court, is subject to punishment as provided in the Official Code of Georgia, and as determined by the county superior court or county state court.
(b)
Any person(s) found guilty of any initial violation of chapter 10, animals, returnable to the county magistrate's court is subject to a fine of $1,000.00 or six months' imprisonment, or both, provided that the magistrate judge shall probate not less than 120 days of any sentence imposed. In the event a sentence is revoked, a defendant shall not serve more than 60 days in a county jail. The trial court may suspend the service of the sentence imposed in the case upon terms and conditions as it may prescribe for the payment of the fine, for performance of community service in lieu of a fine or incarceration, for the payment of restitution to a victim, or other condition relating to the underlying offense. Service of the sentence, when so suspended, shall not begin unless and until ordered by the court having jurisdiction thereof, after a hearing as in cases of revocation of probated sentences, because of the failure or refusal of the defendant to comply with the terms and conditions upon which service of a sentence was suspended. Service of all or any part of any sentence suspended upon such conditions may be ordered to commence by the trial court any time before the expiration of one year from the date of the sentence after a hearing and a finding by the court that the defendant has failed or refused to comply with the terms and conditions upon which service of the sentence was suspended.
(c)
Any person(s) found guilty of a second violation of chapter 10 animals returnable to the county magistrate's court shall have a minimum fine of $750.00, and may have a fine as much as $1,000.00, and minimum imprisonment in a county jail of 30 days, and up to six months' imprisonment in the discretion of the county magistrate's judge, provided that the county magistrate's judge shall probate not less than 120 days of any sentence imposed for six months. In the event a sentence is revoked, a defendant shall not serve more than 60 days in a county jail. The trial court may suspend the service of the sentence imposed in the case upon such terms and conditions as it may prescribe for the payment of the fine, or performance of community service in lieu of a fine or incarceration, for the payment of restitution to a victim, or other condition relating to the underlying offense. Service of the sentence, when so suspended, shall not begin unless and until ordered by the court having jurisdiction thereof, after a hearing as in cases of revocation of probated sentences, because of the failure or refusal of the defendant to comply with the terms and conditions upon which service of a sentence was suspended. Service of all or any part of any sentence suspended upon such conditions may be ordered to commence by the trial court any time before the expiration of one year from the date of the sentence after a hearing and a finding by the court that the defendant has failed or refused to comply with the terms and conditions upon which service of the sentence was suspended.
(d)
Any person(s) found guilty of a third or subsequent violation of chapter 10 animals, or a violation including the death or serious injury to a human being or a violation involving the death of an animal, returnable to the county magistrate's court shall have a minimum fine of $1,000.00, and minimum imprisonment in a county jail of 60 days, and up to four months' community service in the discretion of the county magistrate's judge. In the event a sentence is revoked, a defendant shall not serve more than 60 days in a county jail. The trial court may suspend the service of the sentence imposed in the case upon such terms and conditions as it may prescribe for the payment of the fine, or performance of community service in lieu of a fine or incarceration, for the payment of restitution to a victim, or other condition relating to the underlying offense. Service of the sentence, when so suspended, shall not begin unless and until ordered by the court having jurisdiction thereof, after a hearing as in cases of revocation of probated sentences, because of the failure or refusal of the defendant to comply with the terms and conditions upon which service of a sentence was suspended. Service of all or any part of any sentence suspended upon such conditions may be ordered to commence by the trial court any time before the expiration of one year from the date of the sentence after a hearing and a finding by the court that the defendant has failed or refused to comply with the terms and conditions upon which service of the sentence was suspended.
(e)
An owner of a dangerous dog that is convicted of section 10-58(c) or section 10-58(d) in the county magistrate's court shall be subject to the penalties set out and provided by section 10-101(d).
(f)
Payment of any fine or service of a jail sentence shall not relieve any person from resolution of the problem resulting in the violation. In addition, the applicable court may order reimbursement for the county's cost involved in prosecuting the case (including but not limited to attorney fees, impound charges and the hourly cost to the county of the time of the animal control officer) as a part of the court costs imposed by the court.
(Res. No. 2006-16, 4-4-06; Res. No. 2007-33, 10-2-07)
Secs. 10-102—10-110. - Reserved.
