Chapter 38 - LAW ENFORCEMENT
ARTICLE I. - IN GENERAL

Secs. 38-1—38-25. - Reserved.
ARTICLE II. - POLICE DEPARTMENT[1]

Footnotes:
--- (1) ---
Charter reference— Police department authorized, § 1.13(36).
Cross reference— Departments generally, § 2-101 et seq.
State Law reference— Authority to provide for police protection, Ga. Const. art. IX, § 2, par. III(a)(1); Georgia Peace Officer Standards and Training Act, O.C.G.A. § 35-8-1 et seq.

Sec. 38-26. - Composition.
The police department shall consist of the chief of police and such other officers and personnel as the city manager shall prescribe following budgetary approval by the commission.
(Code 1987, § 3-703(1))
Sec. 38-27. - Rank.
Following the police chief in rank shall be the captain, the lieutenants, the sergeants, and the police officers, in order of seniority in each group.
(Code 1987, § 3-703(2))
Sec. 38-28. - Police chief.
(a)
Qualifications, appointment and powers. The police chief shall comply with O.C.G.A. § 35-8-1 et seq. The police chief shall be appointed by the city manager and shall be the chief executive officer of the police department, subject always to the orders of the city manager in keeping with the adopted policies of the city commission. In the exercise of official duties, the police chief shall have the power to establish and enforce rules and regulations for the government of the members and employees of the department, which rules shall, however, be consistent with the ordinances of the city and the laws of the state.
(b)
Bond and oath. Prior to entering upon the discharge of his duties, the police chief of the city and such other officers who receive initial payments of cash bonds shall execute a bond in the amount of $1,500.00. The police chief shall take and subscribe the oath prescribed by section 2-76 of this Code.
(c)
Duties. The police chief shall have the following duties:
(1)
To attend all meetings of the city commission and all trials before the municipal court.
(2)
To see to the proper service of all summonses, subpoenas, citations, executions, attachments, and rules of the city commission as may be directed by the city manager.
(3)
To see to the collection of all fines and costs imposed by the municipal court.
(4)
To see that the ordinances, rules and regulations of the city and all statutes applicable therein are faithfully enforced.
(5)
To preserve the public peace, prevent infractions of the law, and arrest violators thereof.
(6)
To protect the rights of persons and property.
(7)
To oversee the conduct of the officers and other employees in the police force, and to be held strictly responsible for such conduct and for the general good order of the department.
(8)
To keep adequate records of all personnel and equipment of the department including a log of all questions, activities and investigations.
(9)
To make a monthly report available to the city manager on the number and type of arrests for state offenses, the number and type of cases involving violations of municipal ordinances, and the number of arrests made and cases reported by each police officer.
(10)
To discharge such other duties as may be required of him by the manager or commission.
(d)
Resignation, removal, death, disability. In the event of resignation, removal, death or disability of the police chief, the officer next in rank shall perform the duties of the chief until removal of such disability or until a successor has been duly appointed.
(Code 1987, § 3-703(3))
Sec. 38-29. - Police officers.
(a)
Qualifications. Any person employed by the city as a police officer shall comply with the qualifications in O.C.G.A. § 35-8-1 et seq.
(b)
Bond and oath. Prior to entering upon the duties of their respective offices, all officers of the police department including nonuniformed employees in the police department shall execute a bond in the amount of $1,500.00. All officers of the police department shall take and subscribe the oath prescribed by section 2-76 of this Code.
(c)
Duties. It shall be the duty of the officers of the police department to acquire a full knowledge of and to enforce all of the ordinances of the city and all statutes applicable therein; to become familiar with the rules and regulations established by the police chief concerning the discipline, good order, proper conduct, care and management of the police department; and to respect and obey all orders of the police chief not in conflict with the law or ordinances of the city.
(Code 1987, § 3-703(4))
Sec. 38-30. - Arms and uniforms.
Each officer and member of the police department shall be furnished with such uniform, arms and police equipment as provided for by the city commission. Uniforms shall be kept clean and pressed and shall be worn on duty at all times, unless otherwise ordered by a superior officer. The equipment, arms and uniforms furnished by the city shall be and always remain the property of the city and shall be, when a change is ordered or on retirement from office, returned to the city. The members of the department shall be liable on their bonds for any loss or careless destruction of or damage to their arms and uniforms.
(Code 1987, § 3-703(5))
Sec. 38-31. - Arrests.
Police officers of the city may make arrests for violations of municipal ordinances and state laws.
(Code 1987, § 3-703(6))
Sec. 38-32. - Entering private dwellings.
No police officer shall enter a private dwelling without a search or arrest warrant unless in pursuit of a fugitive of whom the officer has personal knowledge or if the officer has probable cause to believe the suspected offender has committed or attempted to commit a felony, or under such other facts and circumstances authorized by the laws of the State of Georgia and the United States.
(Ord. No. 94-03-01, § 7(3), 7-19-94)
