Chapter 54 - SOLID WASTE[1]
Footnotes:
--- (1) ---
Charter reference— General authority relative to solid waste, § 1.13(22), (23), (40).
Cross reference— Department of public works, § 2-126 et seq.; environment, ch. 26; utilities, ch. 70.
State Law reference— Authority to provide for solid waste collection and disposal, Ga. Const. art. IX, § II, par. III(a)(2).

ARTICLE I. - IN GENERAL

Sec. 54-1. - Definitions.
The following words, terms and phrases, when used in this chapter, shall have the meanings ascribed to them in this section, except where the context clearly indicates a different meaning:
Collection means where a person who, under agreements, verbal or written, with or without compensation, does the work of collecting and/or transporting solid waste from industries, offices, retail outlets, businesses, institutions and/or similar locations, or from residential dwellings; provided, however, that this definition shall not include an individual collecting and/or transporting waste from his own single-family dwelling unit.
Commercial premises means all commercial concerns within the city.
Convenience center means a conveniently located site for collection of solid waste and/or recyclables, operated by or on behalf of the city, or by any private entity.
Disposal facility means any facility or location where any treatment, utilization, processing or deposit of solid waste occurs.
Disposal operation means the performance of solid waste disposal, including administration, personnel, land, equipment, design and other elements necessary or used in the work of solid waste disposal.
Disposal site means the location or land area where the final deposition of solid waste occurs.
Garbage means putrescible animal and vegetable wastes resulting from the handling, preparation, cooking and consumption of food.
Hazardous waste means solid or liquid waste material resulting from the manufacture or use of pesticides and drugs (other than normal household use); pathological wastes; highly flammable or explosive wastes; toxic wastes; sewage sludges; and other waste material determined to be a likely hazard to the public health, safety, or environment, except radioactive waste materials as provided for in rules of the department of human resources.
Industrial waste means waste materials generated in industrial operations.
Open dump means a disposal site at which solid waste from one or more sources is consolidated and left to decompose, burn or to otherwise create environmental pollution or nuisance.
Putrescible wastes means wastes that are capable of being decomposed by microorganisms, including kitchen wastes, manure, offal, hatchery and poultry wastes, and garbage.
Reclamation means a controlled method of sorting and storing solid wastes for future use in accordance with an approved plan.
Recycling means the collection of used glass, aluminum, corrugated cardboard, newspapers, plastic or other materials for processing into new products.
Refuse means classes of refuse which are designated as follows: garbage, limbs, leaves, and trimmings.
Residential class A premises means all single-family residential dwellings for which curbside service is feasible to provide in the collection of solid waste in the form of household garbage, excluding yard trash and rubbish, from a limit of three 30-gallon cans or a limit of three 30-gallon approved sealed plastic garbage bags, with a limit of three such containers; or any combination, not to exceed three cans or bags total. A residential class A premises shall normally have one pickup per week.
Residential class B premises means all multifamily residential dwellings for which curbside service is feasible to provide and a commercial type container is provided and shared by all residential tenants or owners.
Rubbish means nonputrescible solid wastes (excluding ashes), consisting of both combustible and noncombustible wastes, such as paper, cardboard, tin cans, yard clippings, wood, glass, bedding, crockery and similar materials.
Sanitary landfilling means a method of disposing of putrescible waste and/or hazardous waste on land by placing an earth cover thereon.
Scavenge means uncontrolled picking from discarded waste materials.
Solid waste means putrescible and nonputrescible wastes, except water-carried body wastes, including garbage, trash, cans, bottles, rubbish, ashes, street refuse, dead animals, sewage sludges, animal manures, industrial wastes, residue from incineration, food-processing wastes, construction wastes, hazardous wastes, and any other waste material in a solid or semisolid state not otherwise defined in this chapter.
Transfer station means a facility used to transfer solid wastes from one transportation vehicle to another for transportation to a disposal facility.
(Code 1987, § 11-103; Ord. No. 96-06-01, 7-15-96; Ord. No. 98-03-01, 4-14-98)
Cross reference— Definitions and rules of construction generally, § 1-2.
Sec. 54-2. - Penalty.
(a)
Except as hereinafter provided in (b) and (c) hereof, any person charged with a violation of any section or provision of this chapter shall be given a written notice and instructions from the city manager as to the required remedy for such violation and shall be given ten days to comply with the provisions of this chapter. Failure to comply with the requirements of such written notice and instructions of the city manager shall result in the termination of services of the sanitation department and shall, upon conviction, be punished as provided in section 1-7. Reinstatement of city trash and garbage collection shall only be provided after the person, firm, institution or corporation has fully complied with all the provisions of this chapter.
(b)
The provisions of subsection (a) notwithstanding, any person detected to be in violation of the provisions of section 54-4 may be immediately charged with such violation and, upon conviction, shall be punished as provided in section 1-7.
(c)
Any person convicted of a violation of subsection 54-34(a) and subsection 54-34(b), shall be punished by a fine of $100.00 for the first offense, and by a fine of not more than $1,000.00 for any subsequent offense, or imprisonment for not more than 30 days, or both.
(Code 1987, § 11-116; Ord. No. 98-03-01, 4-14-98; Ord. No. 11-3-03, 4-5-2011)
Sec. 54-3. - Purpose.
The purpose of the provisions contained in this chapter is to provide for the protection of the public health by prescribing the manner of storage, collection, transportation and disposal of residential and industrial waste, rubbish, garbage and refuse.
(Code 1987, § 11-101)
Sec. 54-4. - Depositing in street or public place.
(a)
It shall be unlawful for any person to litter, throw, deposit, scatter or otherwise cause to be placed or left upon any vacant or unoccupied lot or lots, along any street or sidewalk or other public place within the city, any paper, wastes, rubbish, trimmings, limbs or garbage of any kind.
(b)
It shall be unlawful for any person utilizing any vehicle, moving or parked, to cause any paper, wastes, cartons, rubbish, feathers, gravel, earth, trimmings, limbs, or garbage of any kind to be littered, thrown, deposited or scattered upon any street, sidewalk or public place or any private property, occupied or unoccupied. Such precautions as are necessary to contain transported materials, including covering of open trucks, shall be utilized to prevent such littering and scattering.
(Code 1987, § 11-112)
Secs. 54-5—54-25. - Reserved.
ARTICLE II. - MUNICIPAL COLLECTION AND DISPOSAL SERVICE
DIVISION 1. - GENERALLY

Sec. 54-26. - City responsibility for sanitation services.
The city, by and through its proper departments, shall be responsible for sanitation services including the collection and disposal of all garbage, trash and other refuse within the city except as hereinafter set out in this chapter; provided, however, that residential or commercial classes may dispose of refuse from their premises. The city reserves the right to contract with its designee for commercial or residential solid waste pickup and removal service.
(Code 1987, § 11-102; Ord. No. 98-03-01, 4-14-98)
Sec. 54-27. - Deposit.
If sanitation service is supplied to residential class A premises to which the city does not supply water service, a deposit equal to three times the applicable fee shall be made in advance of initiation of service.
(Code 1987, § 11-110; Ord. No. 98-03-01, 4-14-98)
Sec. 54-28. - Collection days designated.
Garbage, trash and refuse shall be collected from residential class A premises by the proper departments of the city or as may be contracted by the city once per week.
(Code 1987, § 11-104; Ord. No. 96-06-01, 7-15-96; Ord. No. 98-03-01, 4-14-98)
Sec. 54-29. - Residential sanitary trash and garbage containers.
(a)
Residential solid waste customers of the city shall provide sanitary containers in which trash, garbage or refuse shall be kept prior to collection by the sanitation department or designee. Such containers shall be constructed of rustproof, moistureproof material and shall be equipped with tight-fitting covers with handles. Such containers shall be restricted to a maximum capacity of 30 gallons in all residential areas and at any structure used for residential purposes, except as provided for in subsection (b) of this section.
(b)
Each Residential Class A customer shall provide at least one and not more than three such containers at a single collection point.
(c)
Persons required to maintain such containers shall maintain them in a sanitary condition, tightly covered at all times except during filling, emptying and cleaning; free from odor; and such containers shall be filled in such manner as to allow pick up by one person, except when a standard hoist type container is used. Such container shall be further maintained so as to prevent the overflow or scattering of trash, garbage or refuse.
(d)
Residential class B customers shall maintain containers in a sanitary condition, tightly covered at all times except during filling, emptying and cleaning; free from odor. Such container shall be further maintained so as to prevent the overflow or scattering of trash, garbage or refuse.
(Code 1987, § 11-105; Ord. No. 98-03-01, 4-14-98)
Sec. 54-30. - Commercial and industrial operations containers.
All classes of commercial and industrial operations using containers shall maintain them in a sanitary condition, free from odor and shall prevent the overflow or scattering of trash, garbage or refuse on the premises, nearby properties or public streets and places.
(Code 1987, § 11-106; Ord. No. 96-06-01, 7-15-96; Ord. No. 98-03-01, 4-14-98)
Sec. 54-31. - Placement of refuse for pickup.
(a)
All persons utilizing city pickup of trash or cuttings shall be required to place such cuttings, trimmings, leaves and tree limbs on their premises located as to be easily accessible to street pickup, but not including the street, sidewalk or properties other than the premises of the depositor.
(b)
Each classification of refuse must be kept separate and will be picked up separately.
(c)
All refuse resulting from building, repairing, remodeling or any kind of construction shall be moved by the contractor, owner of property or person having work done. The city shall not move refuse of this nature. All trees, limbs, bushes, trash, dirt and other refuse resulting from cleaning up or improving property shall be removed by the contractor, tree surgery company, owner of property, developer or person having work done.
(d)
No person shall be allowed to place for collection limbs or cuttings greater than five feet in length or 50 pounds in weight. Cuttings, trimmings and leaves shall be placed in plastic bags and located as stated in subsection (a) of this section.
(e)
The city shall schedule two clean up weeks annually, for pickup of limbs, leaves, general rubbish and grass trimmings, once in the spring and once in the fall at the discretion of the city.
(f)
No person shall be allowed to deposit such trash, cuttings, trimmings, leaves or tree limbs for collection by the city in excess of the load equivalent of one four-yard dump truck per dwelling or business establishment per cleanup week, as provided in this chapter. Charges shall be levied for such pickup exceeding the above amounts, charges to be based upon total cost of such additional service as may be determined by the city sanitation department or designee.
(g)
No person shall be allowed to deposit such trash, cuttings, trimmings, leaves or tree limbs on any public street, sidewalk or property.
(h)
The city manager of the city is authorized and directed to develop and publish rules and regulations for the implementation of the services provided by the city under this section, and to supplement and amend same from time to time, so long as such rules and regulations are not inconsistent with the provisions of the Code of the city. Each such rule or regulation shall bear the effective date thereof, and the violation thereof shall be a misdemeanor under this Code. Any such rule or regulation may contain a schedule of fees developed by the city manager, however, any such fee shall not exceed the estimated approximate cost of the provision and administration of such service. Any such rules and regulations shall be presented to the city commission at the meeting next following the development, publishing, implementation, and effective date of such rules and regulations, for review. Upon commission review, any or all of such rules and regulations may be overruled by the commission, and upon such action, such rule or regulation is immediately revoked and repealed ab initio, and no later rule or regulation substantially similar therewith shall be permitted without express approval by the city commission.
(Code 1987, § 11-113; Ord. No. 98-03-01, 4-14-98; Ord. No. 04-08-04, 9-21-04)
Sec. 54-32. - Disposal of dead animals.
The disposal of dead animals shall be in compliance with state and county health rules and regulations and any city ordinance hereinafter passed for the health and well-being of the citizens of the city.
(Code 1987, § 11-114)
Sec. 54-33. - Reserved.
Editor's note— Ord. No. 96-06-01, adopted July 15, 1996, amended the Code by repealing § 54-33 in its entirety. Former § 54-33 pertained to classification of residential premises, and derived from the Code of 1987, § 11-108.
Sec. 54-34. - Solid waste disposal prohibited in city maintained trash barrels.
(a)
Except for solid waste receptacles (trash barrels) provided by the city in public areas to accommodate disposal by tourism pedestrian traffic, no person or entity shall deposit solid waste except in approved collection receptacles and upon payment therefor, or upon specific expressed permission of the entity controlling the receptacles.
(b)
No person or entity, who is not a visitor or tourism pedestrian, shall place solid waste in receptacles designed to collect immediately generated solid waste from visitors and tourists.
(Ord. No. 95-03-01, 4-18-95; Ord. No. 98-03-01, 4-14-98)
Secs. 54-35—54-50. - Reserved.
DIVISION 2. - RATES AND CHARGES[2]

Footnotes:
--- (2) ---
Charter reference— Service charges authorized, § 6.15.

Sec. 54-51. - Fee schedule.
As needed, the city commission shall by resolution set the rates for monthly sanitation solid waste charges.
Rates shall be classified as follows:
Residential class A;
Residential class B receptacle rates are restricted by applicable city contract with service providers;
Convenience center rates; and
Commercial receptacle rates are restricted by applicable city contract with service providers.
(Code 1987, § 11-107; Ord. No. 90-1, § 11-103(3), 3-20-90; Ord. No. 96-06-01, 7-15-96; Ord. No. 98-03-01, 4-14-98)
Sec. 54-52. - Nondesignated services.
The city shall not be required to provide any services not stipulated in this chapter. However, should the city, in its discretion, determine to provide any service not provided for under any section of this chapter pertaining to the collection of garbage, trash and refuse, with a charge not specifically set out, a fee equal to the cost of the operation, including collection, transportation, and disposal, plus a ten percent service charge shall be charged.
(Code 1987, § 11-115; Ord. No. 98-03-01, 4-14-98)
Sec. 54-53. - Exclusive contractor for removal of solid waste.
In order to protect the general welfare and safeguard the public health and infrastructure, no person or entity may contract with any person or entity, except that person or entity designated by contract with the city, for solid waste collection within the city. Nothing contained herein shall be construed to prohibit any person or entity from disposing of their own solid waste in a manner consistent with the provisions of this chapter.
(Code 1987, §§ 11-107, 11-110; Ord. No. 98-03-01, 4-14-98)
Sec. 54-54. - Nonpayment of fees.
Any person failing for any reason or refusing to pay the monthly sanitary and health charge for garbage pickup provided for in this chapter, after having been duly billed for same by the city, shall be deemed guilty of a violation of this chapter and all sanitary and health services and water service provided by the city to the premises for which the monthly charges are past due shall be terminated by the city.
(Code 1987, § 11-111)
Charter reference— Collection of delinquent fees, § 6.18.
