ARTICLE V. - FINANCE[11]
modified

Footnotes:
--- (11) ---
Charter reference— Finance, § 6.1 et seq.
Cross reference— Taxation, Ch. 19.

Sec. 2-226. - Fiscal year, submission of budget, annual appropriation ordinance.
(a)
The fiscal year of the city shall begin on January 1 of each year and end on December 31 of each year.
(b)
The budget document for the next ensuing fiscal year shall be submitted to the city council each year 40 days prior to the beginning of the next fiscal year by the city manager. The budget document shall be in such form as may be prescribed by the governing authority from time to time, but shall contain a comparison of current revenues and expenditures with the proposed revenues and expenditures. At the time the budget is submitted to the city council, a notice shall be published in a newspaper of general circulation containing the time and place of a public hearing on the proposed budget. This hearing shall be at least seven days prior to adopting the appropriation ordinance. A notice of the adoption of the annual appropriation ordinance shall be published at least seven days prior to the meeting date.
(c)
At the first meeting in January of each year the city council shall enact an appropriation ordinance for the ensuing fiscal year in which shall be itemized all anticipated revenues to be received during the fiscal year, all anticipated expenditures for the fiscal year and all payments to be applied toward the city's bonded indebtedness.
(Code 1972, § 25-60)
Sec. 2-227. - Incurring indebtedness prior to appropriation.
No indebtedness shall be incurred, excepting such indebtedness as may be payable solely from the proceeds of a duly authorized bond issue or from a designated specified source, unless there is a prior appropriation out of which such indebtedness could be paid, as provided by statute; provided that, during the first quarter of any fiscal year, before the enactment of the current appropriation ordinance, the city may operate under the appropriation ordinance of the preceding year.
(Code 1972, § 25-61)
Sec. 2-228. - Signing and approval of contracts.
The mayor or any other person designated by the city council may sign, on behalf of the city, any contract authorized by the city council. No contract may be entered into without the authority of the city council.
(Code 1972, § 25-62)
Sec. 2-229. - Approval of bills before payment.
All bills payable by the city other than for the payment of salaries established by the city council, recurring monthly expenditures for operations and bond payments, shall be submitted to the city council for approval before payment. The city manager will approve all bills before they are paid.
(Code 1972, § 25-63)
Sec. 2-230. - Payment of money by clerk-treasurer.
The clerk-treasurer shall pay out money in payment of all bills, for salaries, or for any other purpose including the retirement of principal and interest on bonds or tax anticipation warrants as provided by statute.
(Code 1972, § 25-64)
Sec. 2-231. - Annual audit of city accounts.
As soon as practicable at the close of each fiscal year, and no later than three months thereafter, there shall be an audit of all accounts of the city made by a competent person authorized to act as an auditor under the laws of the state, to be designated by the city council. Copies of such audit report shall be filed with the city clerk and in such other places as may be required by law.
(Code 1972, § 25-65)
Secs. 2-232—2-250. - Reserved.
