Chapter 1 - GENERAL PROVISIONS

Sec. 1-1. - Designation and citation of Code.
The ordinances, resolutions and other enactments embraced in the following chapters and sections shall constitute and be designated as "The Code of Ordinances of Jeff Davis County, Georgia," and may be so cited. This Code may also be referred to by the shortened form "Jeff Davis County Code."
State Law reference— Authority to adopt ordinances for regulation of matters for which no provision has been made by general law, O.C.G.A. § 36-1-20; duty to codify ordinances, O.C.G.A. § 36-80-19.
Sec. 1-2. - Definitions and rules of construction.
In the construction of this Code and of all ordinances of the county, the following definitions and rules of construction shall be observed, unless it shall be otherwise expressly provided in any section or ordinance, or unless inconsistent with the manifest intent of the board of commissioners, or unless the context clearly requires otherwise:
Board of commissioners, board, commissioners, county commission, governing authority, governing body. Each such term means the Board of Commissioners of Jeff Davis County, Georgia.
Chairperson, other officers and officials. Whenever the term "chairperson" is used it means the chairperson of the Board of Commissioners of Jeff Davis County. Whenever titles of various officers or officials are used, they refer to the persons holding such positions with Jeff Davis County.
Code. The term "Code" means the Code of Ordinances, Jeff Davis County, Georgia, as designated in section 1-1.
County. The term "the county" or "this county" means Jeff Davis County, Georgia.
Delegation of authority. Whenever a provision appears requiring the head of a department of the county to do some act or make certain inspections, it is to be construed to authorize the head of the department to designate, delegate and authorize subordinates to perform the required act or make the required inspection unless the terms of the provision or section designate otherwise.
Fee schedule or schedule of fees and charges. The term "fee schedule" or "schedule of fees and charges" means the official consolidated list maintained in the county clerk's office that lists rates for utility or other public enterprises, fees of any nature, deposit amounts and various charges as determined from time to time by the board of commissioners.
Gender. A term importing the masculine gender only shall extend and be applied to females and to firms, partnerships and corporations as well as to males or any other legal entity when applicable under federal or state law.
Governing authority, governing body . The term "governing authority" or "governing body" means the Board of Commissioners of Jeff Davis County, Georgia.
Interpretation. In the interpretation and application of any provision of this Code, it shall be held to be the minimum requirement adopted for the promotion of the public health, safety, comfort, convenience and general welfare. Where any provision of this Code imposes greater restrictions upon the subject matter than any general provisions imposed by this Code, the provision imposing the greater restriction or regulation shall be applicable.
Joint authority. All terms giving a joint authority to three or more persons or officers shall be construed as giving such authority to a majority of such persons or officers.
Law. The term "law" means and denotes applicable federal law, the state constitution and statutes, this Code, ordinances and resolutions of the county, and, when appropriate, any and all rules and regulations that may be promulgated thereunder.
Month. The term "month" means a calendar month.
Nontechnical and technical terms. Terms and phrases shall be construed according to the common and approved usage of the language, but technical terms and phrases and such others as may have acquired a peculiar and appropriate meaning in law shall be construed and understood according to such meaning.
Number. A term importing the singular number only may extend and be applied to several persons and things as well as to one person and thing.
Oath. The term "oath" shall be construed to include an affirmation in all cases in which, by law, an affirmation may be substituted for an oath, and in such cases the terms "swear" and "sworn" shall be equivalent to the terms "affirm" and "affirmed."
O.C.G.A. The term "O.C.G.A." means the Official Code of Georgia Annotated.
Ordinance. The term "ordinance" means a legislative act of the governing body of a general and permanent nature.
Owner. The term "owner," applied to a building or land, includes any part owner, joint owner, tenant in common or tenant in partnership of the whole or of a part of such building or land.
Person. The term "person" extends and applies to associations, clubs, societies, firms, partnerships and bodies politic and corporate as well as to individuals.
Preceding, following. The terms "preceding" and "following" means next before and next after, respectively.
Public place. The term "public place" means any park, cemetery, school yard or open space adjacent thereto, or any area available and/or accessible to the public, regardless of whether privately or publicly owned.
Resolution. The term "resolution" means a legislative act of the county governing authority of a special or temporary character.
Road; street. The terms "road" and "street" shall be construed to embrace streets, avenues, boulevards, roads, alleys, lanes, viaducts and all other public highways under the jurisdiction of the county.
Shall, may. The term "shall" is always mandatory and not merely directory; the term "may" is permissive.
Sheriff. The term "sheriff" means the sheriff of Jeff Davis County, Georgia.
State. The term "state" or "the state" means the State of Georgia.
Tense. Terms used in the past or present tense include the future as well as the past and present.
Written or in writing. The term "written" or "in writing" shall be construed to include any representation of words, letters or figures, whether by printing or otherwise.
Year. The term "year" means a calendar year.
State Law reference— Statutory definitions and rules of construction, O.C.G.A. § 1-3-1 et seq.; construction of statutory definitions, O.C.G.A. § 1-3-2; general statutory definitions, O.C.G.A. § 1-3-3.
Sec. 1-3. - Catchlines of sections; history notes, editor's notes and references.
The catchlines of sections in this Code printed in boldface type, italics or otherwise are intended as mere catchwords to indicate the contents of the section, and shall not be deemed or taken to be titles of such sections, nor as any part of the section, nor, unless expressly so provided, shall they be so deemed when any of such sections, including the catchlines, are amended or reenacted. The history notes appearing in parentheses after each section and the references and editor's notes scattered throughout the Code are for the benefit of the user of the Code and shall have no legal effect.
State Law reference— Notes and catchlines of code sections not part of law, O.C.G.A. § 1-1-7.
Sec. 1-4. - Provisions considered continuations of existing ordinances.
The provisions appearing in this Code, so far as they are the same as ordinances adopted prior to this Code and included in such Code, shall be considered as continuations thereof and not as new enactments.
Sec. 1-5. - Ordinances not affected by Code.
(a)
Nothing in this Code or the ordinance adopting this Code shall be construed to repeal or otherwise affect the validity of any of the following:
(1)
Any offense or act committed or done or any penalty or forfeiture incurred or any contract or right established or accruing before the effective date of this Code.
(2)
Any ordinance or resolution promising or guaranteeing the payment of money for the county or authorizing the issuance of any bonds of the county or any evidence of the county's indebtedness.
(3)
Any contract or obligation assumed by the county.
(4)
Any ordinance fixing the salary of any county officer or employee.
(5)
Any right or franchise granted by the county.
(6)
Any ordinance dedicating, naming, establishing, locating, relocating, opening, widening, paving, etc., any street or public way in the county.
(7)
Any appropriation ordinance.
(8)
Any ordinance which, by its own terms, is effective for a stated or limited term.
(9)
Any ordinance providing for local improvements and assessing taxes therefor.
(10)
Any zoning ordinance.
(11)
Any ordinance dedicating or accepting any subdivision plat.
(12)
Any ordinance describing or altering the boundaries of the county.
(13)
The administrative ordinances or resolutions of the county not in conflict or inconsistent with the provisions of this Code.
(14)
Any ordinance levying or imposing taxes not included in this Code.
(15)
Any ordinance establishing or prescribing road or street grades in the county.
(b)
No such ordinance shall be construed to revive any ordinance or part thereof that has been repealed by a subsequent ordinance which is repealed by this chapter, and all such ordinances are hereby recognized as continuing in full force and effect to the same extent as if set out at length in this Code.
Sec. 1-6. - Severability of parts of Code.
It is hereby declared to be the intention of the board of commissioners that the sections, paragraphs, sentences, clauses, and phrases of this Code are severable and, if any phrase, clause, sentence, paragraph or section of this Code shall be declared unconstitutional by the valid judgment or decree of any court of competent jurisdiction, such unconstitutionality shall not affect any of the remaining phrases, clauses, sentences, paragraphs and sections of this Code, since the same would have been enacted by the board of commissioners without the incorporation in this Code of any such unconstitutional phrase, clause, sentence, paragraph or section.
State Law reference— Severability of state legislation, O.C.G.A. § 1-1-3.
Sec. 1-7. - Conflicting regulations.
(a)
If the provisions of different chapters conflict with each other, the provisions of each individual chapter shall control all issues arising out of the events and persons intended to be governed by that chapter.
(b)
If the provisions of different sections of the same chapter conflict with each other, the provision which is more specific in its application to the events or persons raising the conflict shall control over the more general provision.
(c)
If any of the provisions hereof conflict, and the conflict cannot be resolved by application of subsections (a) and (b) of this section, the more stringent regulation shall apply and the specific provision shall prevail over the general.
Sec. 1-8. - Altering Code.
It shall be unlawful for any person in the county to change or amend by additions or deletions any part or portion of this Code, or to insert or delete pages, or portions thereof, or to alter or tamper with such Code in any manner whatsoever, except by ordinance or resolution or other official act of the board of commissioners, which will cause the law of the county to be misrepresented thereby. Any person violating this section shall be punished as provided in section 1-15.
State Law reference— Altering, falsifying, or stealing public records unlawful, O.C.G.A. § 45-11-1.
Sec. 1-9. - Form of Code; repository; maintenance.
A copy of this Code shall be kept on file in the office of the county clerk, preserved in looseleaf form, or in such other form as the clerk may consider most expedient. It shall be the express duty of the clerk or his designee to insert in their designated places all ordinances that indicate the intention of the board of commissioners to make the same a part of this Code, when the same have been printed or reprinted in page form, and to extract from this Code all provisions that may be from time to time repealed by the board of commissioners. A copy of this Code shall be available in the office of the county clerk for examination by all persons.
State Law reference— Inspection of public records, O.C.G.A. § 50-18-70 et seq.; requirements for publication of code, O.C.G.A. § 36-80-19.
Sec. 1-10. - Responsibility of personnel for assigned copies of Code.
Each county official or employee assigned a copy of this Code shall be responsible for maintaining the same and for the proper insertion of amendatory pages as received and as requested by the county clerk or board of commissioners. Each such copy shall remain the property of the county and shall be turned over by the official or employee having custody thereof upon expiration of his term of office or employment to his successor or to the county clerk in case he shall have no successor.
Sec. 1-11. - Amendments to Code.
modified
(a)
All ordinances passed subsequent to this Code which amend, repeal or in any way affect this Code may be numbered in accordance with the numbering system of this Code and printed for inclusion herein. In the case of repealed chapters, sections and subsections or any part thereof, by subsequent ordinances, such repealed portions may be excluded from the Code by omission from reprinted pages affected thereby. The subsequent ordinances as numbered and printed or omitted, in the case of repeal, shall be prima facie evidence of such subsequent ordinances until such time that this Code and subsequent ordinances numbered or omitted are readopted as a new Code by the board of commissioners.
(b)
The style of all ordinances shall be: "Be it ordained by the Board of Commissioners of Jeff Davis County, as follows:…."
(c)
Amendments to any of the provisions of this Code may be made by amending such provisions by specific reference to the section number of this Code in the following language: "That section _____ of the Code of Ordinances of Jeff Davis County, Georgia, is hereby amended to read as follows:…." The new provisions shall then be set out in full as desired.
(d)
If a new section not heretofore existing in the Code is to be added, the following language may be used: "That the Code of Ordinances of Jeff Davis County, Georgia, is hereby amended by adding a section (or article or chapter) to be numbered _____, which section reads as follows:…." The new section may then be set out in full as desired.
(e)
All sections, articles, chapters or provisions desired to be repealed should be specifically repealed by section, article or chapter number, as the case may be.
Sec. 1-12. - Supplementation of Code.
modified
(a)
By contract or by county personnel, supplements to this Code shall be prepared at least on an annual basis. A supplement to the Code shall include all substantive, permanent and general parts of ordinances passed by the board of commissioners during the period covered by the supplement and all changes made thereby in the Code. The pages of a supplement shall be so numbered that they will fit properly into the Code and will, where necessary, replace pages that have become obsolete or partially obsolete, and the new pages shall be so prepared that, when they have been inserted, the Code will be current through the date of the adoption of the latest ordinance included in the supplement.
(b)
In preparing a supplement to this Code, all portions of the Code that have been repealed shall be excluded from the Code by the omission thereof from reprinted pages.
(c)
When preparing a supplement to this Code, the codifier (meaning the person authorized to prepare the supplement) may make formal, nonsubstantive changes in ordinances and parts of ordinances included in the supplement, insofar as it is necessary to do so to embody them into a unified Code. For example, the codifier may:
(1)
Organize the ordinance material into appropriate subdivisions.
(2)
Provide appropriate catchlines, headings and titles for sections and other subdivisions of the Code printed in the supplement, and make changes in such catchlines, headings and titles.
(3)
Assign appropriate numbers to sections and other subdivisions to be inserted in the Code and, where necessary to accommodate new material, change existing section or other subdivision numbers.
(4)
Change the words "this ordinance" or words of the same meaning to "this chapter," "this article," "this division," etc., as the case may be, or to "sections _____ to _____" (inserting section numbers to indicate the sections of the Code which embody the substantive sections of the ordinance incorporated into the Code).
(5)
Make other nonsubstantive changes necessary to preserve the original meanings of ordinance sections inserted into the Code;
(6)
but in no case shall the codifier make any change in the meaning or effect of ordinance material included in the supplement or already embodied in the Code.
Sec. 1-13. - General penalty; continuing violations.
(a)
In this section, the term "violation of this Code" means:
(1)
Doing an act that is prohibited or made or declared to be an unlawful act, an offense, or a misdemeanor by ordinance or by rule or regulation authorized by ordinance;
(2)
Failure to perform an act that is required to be performed by ordinance, rule, or regulation authorized by ordinance; or
(3)
Failure to perform an act if the failure is declared a misdemeanor, an offense, or an unlawful omission by ordinance, rule, or regulation authorized by ordinance.
(b)
The term "violation of this Code" does not include the failure of a county officer or county employee to perform an official duty, unless it is provided that failure to perform the duty is to be punished as provided in this section or it is clear from the context of this Code that it is the intent of the county to impose the penalty provided for in this section upon the county officer or employee.
(c)
Except as otherwise provided in this Code a person convicted of a violation of this Code shall be punished by a fine not exceeding $1,000.00, imprisonment for a term not exceeding 90 days, or work on the streets or public works for a period not exceeding 90 days, or both, or any combination thereof.
(d)
All sentences must be in the alternative, and fines may be imposed with the alternative of the other punishment in the event the fines are not paid. Each day any violation of any provision of this Code or any such ordinance, resolution, rule, regulation or order shall continue shall constitute a separate offense.
(e)
In the event community service is substituted for a fine, the monetary rate for hourly work shall be the federal minimum hourly wage.
(f)
Each day any violation of this Code or other ordinance shall continue shall constitute a separate offense.
(g)
Violations of this Code that are continuous with respect to time are a public nuisance and may be abated by injunctive or other equitable relief and by such other means as are provided by law. Further, any condition caused or permitted to exist in violation of any of the provisions of this Code or any such ordinance, resolution, rules, regulation or order shall be deemed a public nuisance and may be abated by the county as provided by law.
(h)
The imposition of a penalty does not prohibit equitable relief.
(i)
The imposition of a penalty does not prohibit revocation or suspension of a license, permit, or franchise or the imposition of other administrative sanctions.
(j)
If it is deemed by a court of competent jurisdiction that a punishment imposed under this Code conflicts with state law, the punishment shall be the maximum permitted by such law.
State Law reference— Maximum penalties that may be imposed for violations of county ordinances, O.C.G.A. § 15-10-60; additional penalties and bond in certain criminal and traffic cases, O.C.G.A. § 15-21-73; authority to impose community service as punishment, O.C.G.A. § 17-10-1.
Sec. 1-14. - Additional statutory penalties; disposition of funds.
(a)
There shall be imposed for every fine levied by the superior, state, probate or magistrate court, for violation of a criminal or traffic law of this state or ordinance of the county, a penalty equal to ten percent of the fine levied including costs.
(b)
At the time of the posting of any bail or bond in any case involving a violation of a criminal or traffic law of this state or ordinance of the county, an additional sum equal to ten percent of the original amount of bail or bond shall be posted, and if the bail or bond is forfeited the ten percent shall be paid over as provided in subsection (d) of this section.
(c)
All funds collected pursuant to this section shall be assessed and collected by the clerk or court officer charged with the duty of collecting monies arising from fines and forfeited bonds and paid over to the governing authority of this county in which the court is located by the tenth of each month following the month in which the fines are collected. All funds collected pursuant to this section shall be deposited in a special fund designated as the "county jail fund."
(d)
All funds collected pursuant to this section shall be expended as provided in O.C.G.A. § 15-21-95.
State Law reference— Jail Construction and Staffing Act, O.C.G.A. § 15-21-90 et seq.; imposition, collection, payment and expenditure of additional penalties, O.C.G.A. § 15-21-92.
Sec. 1-15. - Prior matters not affected by adoption of Code.
(a)
Nothing in this Code or the ordinance adopting this Code shall affect any offense or act committed or done or any penalty or forfeiture incurred or any contract or right established or accruing before the effective date of this Code.
(b)
The adoption of this Code shall not be interpreted as authorizing or permitting any use or the continuance of any use of a structure or premises in violation of any ordinance or resolution in effect on the date of adoption of this Code.
