Chapter 34 - FIRE PREVENTION AND PROTECTION[1]
Footnotes:
--- (1) ---
Cross reference— Buildings and building regulations, ch. 14; businesses, ch. 18; environment, ch. 30; streets, sidewalks and other public places, ch. 62.
State Law reference— Authority to provide police and fire protection, Ga. Const., art. 9, sec. 2, par. 3(1); statewide application of Standard Fire Prevention Code, O.C.G.A. § 8-2-25; The Uniform Act for the Application of Building and Fire Related Codes to Existing Buildings, O.C.G.A. § 8-2-200; providing of fire escapes by building owners, O.C.G.A. § 8-2-50; obstruction or hindering of firefighters, O.C.G.A. § 16-10-24.1; regulation of fire and other hazards to persons and property generally, O.C.G.A. § 25-2-1 et seq.; local fire departments generally, O.C.G.A. § 25-3-2 et seq.; authority to enact ordinances or fire and life safety codes, O.C.G.A. § 25-3-4; firefighter standards and training, O.C.G.A. § 25-4-2 et seq.; mutual aid resource pacts, O.C.G.A. § 25-6-1; Georgia Fire Academy Act, O.C.G.A. § 25-7-1 et seq.; regulation of fireworks, O.C.G.A. § 25-10-1 et seq.; electronic security systems installed and serviced by counties or municipal corporations, O.C.G.A. § 36-60-12.

ARTICLE I. - IN GENERAL

Sec. 34-1. - Adoption of state rules, regulations.
For the purpose of prescribing regulations governing conditions hazardous to life and property from fire or explosion and as mandated by O.C.G.A. § 25-2-12, the rules and regulations promulgated by the state safety fire commissioner is hereby adopted by reference by the city council and shall be applicable within the city limits.
(Code 1987, § 6-101)
Sec. 34-2. - Local fire marshal—Designated.
The chief of the fire department shall serve as local fire marshal and in such capacity shall act on behalf of the state fire marshal in the enforcement of the state safety fire law, as amended, and all rules and regulations of the state safety fire commissioner at the local level. The local fire marshal shall carry out all of the provisions of the state safety fire law, as amended, which may come within his province, and shall perform those duties prescribed by the rules and regulations of the state safety fire commissioner.
(Code 1987, § 6-102)
Sec. 34-3. - Same—Oath.
The local fire marshal shall, before entering upon the performance of his duties, take and subscribe the oath prescribed by section 2-1.
(Code 1987, § 6-103)
Sec. 34-4. - Persons permitted on fire equipment.
No person, other than members of the fire department, shall be permitted to ride upon the fire trucks when going to or returning from fires. At all other times, permission from the fire chief shall be required before allowing any person, other than members of the fire department, to ride upon the fire trucks.
(Code 1987, § 3-404(7))
Sec. 34-5. - Persons permitted within vicinity of fire.
No persons other than firefighters, city officials, police officers, and the property owner or his agent shall be permitted within the immediate vicinity of a fire, unless the fire chief gives permission to do so. Operators of motor vehicles of any kind, other than members of the fire department, shall not enter the city block where the fire department is fighting a fire. Operators of motor vehicles shall not in any way restrict traffic on any street leading to such city block.
(Code 1987, § 3-404(10))
State Law reference— Refusal to obey official request at fire or other emergency, O.C.G.A. § 16-10-30; willful failure or refusal to comply with order by police officer or firefighter regulating traffic, O.C.G.A. § 40-6-2.
Sec. 34-6. - Bonfires.
It shall be unlawful for any person or group, during a holiday or at any other time, to build a bonfire of any description within the city limits, except at places approved and designated by the chief of the fire department.
(Code 1987, § 17-106)
Secs. 34-7—34-20. - Reserved.
ARTICLE II. - FALSE ALARMS AND ALARM SYSTEMS

Sec. 34-21. - Purpose.
The purpose of this article is to regulate the responsibilities of those persons who purchase, rent, or use alarm systems, devices, or services. This article is also intended to encourage the improvement in reliability of these systems, devices, and services and to ensure that police and fire department personnel will not be unduly diverted from responding to actual emergencies as a result of responding to false alarms.
(Ord. No. 2015-006, 2-16-15)
Sec. 34-22. - Definitions.
For the purposes of this article, the following words and phrases shall have the respective meanings:
Alarm shall mean and include any fire, robbery, burglary, holdup, medical, or panic alarm that transmits any signal (audible, visual, or silent) to the city, indicating a predetermined emergency condition exists whether the alarm is received:
(1)
By telephone line to a designated position on an alarm panel;
(2)
By a private alarm service company and relayed to the city;
(3)
By an automated telephone alarm system playing a recorded message when received by the city; or
(4)
By a signal relayed to the city by a third party.
Alarm contractor shall mean any person who installs, maintains, repairs, alters, monitors or services alarm systems for compensation.
Alarm signal shall mean the audible sound or a transmission of a signal or a message as the result of the activation of an alarm system or an audible alarm.
Alarm system shall mean any mechanical or electrical or radio-controlled device which is designed to be used for the detection of smoke or fire or of any unauthorized entry into a building, structure or facility, or for alerting others of the commission of an unlawful act within a building, structure or facility, or both, which emits a sound or transmits a signal or message when activated. Alarm systems include audible, silent, fire and panic alarms and proprietor alarms.
Audible alarm shall mean a device designed for the detection of fire or smoke or of unauthorized entry on premises which generates an audible sound when it is activated.
False alarm shall mean the activation of an alarm system to which the city responds and the investigating police officer or firefighter determines that none of the emergencies for which the alarm system has been installed have in fact occurred.
Person shall mean any individual, association, partnership, firm or corporation, or any combination of one or more of them, and includes any officer, employee, department, agency or instrumentality of the state.
(Ord. No. 2015-006, 2-16-15)
Sec. 34-23. - General rules.
The following rules shall govern the use of alarm systems within the city.
(1)
No person shall make, cause to be made or suffer to be made any false alarm from any location in the city.
(2)
No person shall allow, sound or permit the sounding of any burglar or fire alarm or any motor vehicle burglar alarm in the city, which is audible outside the building or vehicle it is installed in unless such alarm is automatically terminated within 15 minutes of activation.
(3)
No company or individual shall connect or cause to be connected, by any means whatsoever any alarm system or alarm that transmits directly into the Jackson County 911 Center or to any telephone line located at Commerce Fire Department or Commerce Police Department, provided, however, it shall not be a violation of the article for an alarm system to be connected or to transmit directly to any phone number maintained by the Jackson County 911 Center for such purpose.
(4)
No individual or company shall test or cause to be tested any alarm system in the city without at least 30 minutes prior notification of the test to the Jackson County 911 Communications Center. Failure to make such prior notifications will be subject to a $100.00 fine for each occurrence.
(5)
A false alarm shall not be deemed to have occurred when the responding agency is notified that no response is necessary before any act of response is substantially completed.
(6)
Any person charged with a violation of the false alarm ordinance may offer proof at any hearing relating to such violation that the false alarm in question was caused by:
a.
A lightning strike or other act of God;
b.
The act of some third party whom the person could not control; or
c.
Failure of an alarm contractor to repair the alarm system which made the false alarm after being employed by the person to make such repair; provided however, the person has again made a good faith attempt to have the alarm system repaired after the false alarm which is the subject of the charge.
(Ord. No. 2015-006, 2-16-15)
Sec. 34-24. - Response fees for false alarms.
It shall be unlawful for any person to give or cause to be given or aid or abet in the giving of any false alarm of fire with intent to deceive the department, or to pull the hook of any call station or call box with such intent. The city shall maintain the right to impose fines and fees associated with false alarms causing a fire department emergency response.
The following penalties will be assessed for each violation during any calendar year:
(1)
First and second false alarms: Written warning
(2)
Third false alarm: $50.00
(3)
Forth false alarm: $100.00
(4)
Fifth and later false alarms: $150.00
Written warnings for first and second false alarms shall be hand delivered to the location of the false alarm by the fire marshal or his/her designee. Failure to make, deliver, or receive any warning shall not affect any subsequent enforcement efforts or the penalty for any subsequent false alarm. The fire marshal or his/her designee shall be given the power to issue warnings related to false alarms at their discretion upon each violation. All false alarm fees received under this ordinance shall be utilized by the city for reimbursing response expenses. A new alarm system shall be allowed a 30-day grace period from the date of installation before the penalty of this section shall apply.
(Ord. No. 2015-006, 2-16-15)
State Law reference— Transmitting false report of fire, O.C.G.A. § 16-10-27.
Sec. 34-25. - Payment of fees.
Payment of false alarm fees as documented by the city public safety department and billed to a business is a condition of that business operating within the city. The city clerk is authorized, pursuant to City Code section 18-29, to withhold issuing or renewing an occupational tax certificate to a business, which has failed to pay a false alarm service fee. Any business, which operates, or continues to operate within the city when its occupational tax certificate has been withheld under this provision, shall be deemed to be operating without an occupational tax certificate and shall be subject to the penalty resulting therefrom. In the case of residences, the false alarm fee shall be billed on the utility bill issued by the city monthly. Failure to pay such fee shall result in the discontinuance of utility service.
(Ord. No. 2015-006, 2-16-15)
