ARTICLE XV. - I-1 LIGHT INDUSTRIAL DISTRICT

Section 1500. - Declaration of legislative intent.
To establish and preserve areas for industrial and related uses of such a nature that they do not create serious problems of compatibility with other kinds of uses.
Section 1501. - Use regulations.
The specific uses, permitted in this district, shall be the erection, construction, alteration or use of buildings for the following uses and no other.
(1)
Any individual use not specifically excluded, which meets the provisions of sections 1502 to 1512 inclusive of this article.
(2)
Agriculture and family day care home.
(3)
Dwelling quarters for watchmen and caretakers employed on the premises shall be permitted in connection with any industrial establishments.
(4)
The following uses shall not be permitted unless proof is shown that the use meets the performance standards identified in sections 1502 through 1512:
Abattoir
Acetylene gas manufacture and/or storage
Acid manufacture (hydrochloric, nitric, picric, sulfuric, sulphaneous, carbolic)
Ammonia, bleaching power or chlorine manufacture
Ammunition manufacture and/or storage
Arsenal
Asphalt manufacture or refining
Blast furnace
Bone distillation
Celluloid manufacture
Cement, lime, gypsum, or plaster of Paris manufacture
Coal distillation
Coke ovens
Creosote treatment or manufacture
Dead animal and offal reduction
Distillation of bones, coal, petroleum, refuse, grain, or wood (except in the manufacture of gas)
Distillation of tar
Explosives, fireworks and gunpowder manufacture or storage
Fat rendering
Fertilizer manufacture
Forge plant
Hog farm
Incineration, reduction, storage, or dumping of slaughterhouse refuse, rancid fats, garbage, dead animal or offal
Oilcloth or linoleum manufacture
Ore reduction
Petroleum or kerosene refining, distillation or derivation of by-products and/or storage
Potash works
Power forge (riveting, hammering, punching, chipping, drawing, rolling or tumbling of iron steel, brass, or copper except as a necessary incident of manufacture or which these processes form a minor part, and which are carried on without objectionable noise outside the plant)
Rolling mill
Steel furnace, blooming or rolling mill
Stock yards
Tar manufacture
(5)
Mini storage warehouses.
(Ord. of 3-11-91, § 4; Ord. of 7-8-13 )
Section 1502. - Air quality control.
(a)
No person owning, leasing or controlling the operation of any air contaminant sources shall willfully, negligently, or through failure to provide necessary precautions, cause, permit, or allow emission, from said air contamination source or sources, of such quantities of air contamination as will cause, or tend to cause, by themselves or in conjunction with other air contaminants, a condition of air pollution.
(b)
Release of air contaminants including particulate matter, dust, fumes, gas, mist, smoke, vapor, or any combination thereof shall be governed by chapter 391-3-1, "Rules and Regulations for Air Quality Control," Environmental Protection Division, Georgia Department of Natural Resources, however, in cases where the aforementioned regulations are in conflict with ordinances of the City of Vidalia, the regulations allowing the least emission of air contaminants to the atmosphere shall prevail.
Section 1503. - Control of dust and dirt, fly ash, and fumes, vapors and gases.
(a)
No emission shall be made which can cause any damage to the health or vegetation or other forms of property, or which can cause any excessive soiling at any point.
(b)
No emission of liquid or solid particles from any chimney shall exceed three-tenths (0.3) grain per cubic foot of the covering gas at any point.
(c)
For measurement of the amount of particles in gases resulting from combustion, standard correction shall be applied to a stack temperature of five hundred (500) degrees F. and fifty (50) percent excess air.
Section 1504. - Control noise.
At no point on the boundary of a Residential or Commercial District shall the sound pressure level of any operation exceed the described levels in the octave band shown below for the districts indicated:
EXPAND
Octave Bank in
Cycles per Seconds Along Residential District
Boundaries—Maximum
Permitted Sound
Level In Decibels At Any Other Point on the
Lot Boundary—Maximum
Permitted Sound
Level in Decibels
0 to 75 72 79
75 to 150 67 74
150 to 300 59 66
300 to 600 62 59
600 to 1200 46 53
1200 to 2400 40 47
2400 to 4800 34 41
Above 4800 32 39
  Cross reference— Noise, § 9-1.
Section 1505. - Control of odors.
There shall be no emission of odorous gases or other odorous matter in such quantities as to be offensive at lot boundary lines. Any process which may involve the creation or emission of any odors shall be provided with a secondary safeguard system, so that control will be maintained if the primary safeguard system shall fail. There is hereby established as a guide to determining such quantities of offensive odors table 111 (Odor Thresholds) in chapter 5 "Air Pollution Abatement Manual" copyright 1951 by Manufacturing Chemists' Association, Inc., Washington, D.C.
Section 1506. - Control of glare or heat.
Any operation producing intense glare or heat shall be performed within an enclosed building or behind a solid fence in such manner as to be completely imperceptible from any point beyond the lot lines.
Section 1507. - Control of vibration.
No vibration which is discernible to the human sense of feeling shall be perceptible without instruments at any point beyond the lot line.
Section 1508. - Control of radioactivity or electrical disturbances.
There shall be no activities which emit dangerous or harmful radioactivity. There shall be no electrical disturbance (except from domestic household appliances) adversely affecting the operation of any equipment located beyond the property of the creator of such disturbances.
Section 1509. - Outdoor storage and waste disposal.
(a)
No flammable or explosive liquids, solid, or gases shall be stored in bulk above ground; provided however, that tanks or drums of fuel directly connecting with energy devices, heating devices, or appliances located on the same lot as the tanks or drums of fuel are excluded from this provision.
(b)
All outdoor storage facilities for fuel, raw materials and products and all fuel; and all raw materials and products stored outdoors shall be enclosed by a fence adequate to conceal the facilities from any adjacent properties.
(c)
No materials or wastes shall be deposited upon a lot in such form or manner that [they] may be transferred off the lot by natural causes or forces.
(d)
All material or wastes which might cause fumes or dust or which constitute a fire hazard or which may be edible or otherwise be attractive to rodents or insects shall be stored outdoors only in closed containers.
Section 1510. - Electric, diesel, gas or other power.
Every use requiring power shall be so operated that the service lines, substation, etc., shall conform to the most acceptable safety requirements, shall be so constructed, installed, etc., to be an integral part of the architectural features of the plant, or if visible from abutting residential properties shall be concealed by coniferous planting.
Section 1511. - Industrial waste or sewage.
No use shall be conducted in such a way as to discharge any treated or untreated sewage or industrial waste treatment and disposal except as shall be provided by sanitary engineers or other qualified persons employed by the city at the expense of the owner of the premises.
Section 1512. - Provision and use of water.
All water requirements shall be stated in the application. The water supply and quality shall comply with the requirements established within chapter 270-5-15, "Rules and Regulations for Water Supply Quality Supply" and chapter 391-3-6, "Rules and Regulations for Water Quality Contract" as published by the environmental protection division of the Georgia Department of Natural Resources.
Section 1513. - Area, width and yard regulations.
(a)
Front yard: There shall be a minimum setback of sixty (60) feet from the street line. This distance may be reduced to twenty (20) feet if no front of structure-parking is contemplated, subject to exception hereinafter set forth in section 1515.
(b)
Side yards: There shall be two (2) side yards, one on each side of the building, together having an aggregate width of not less than sixty (60) feet, but neither having a width of less than fifteen (15) feet.
(c)
Rear yards: The required minimum depth of a rear yard shall be twenty (20) feet, subject to exception hereinafter set forth in section 1514.
Section 1514. - Exceptions for side and rear yards.
In no case shall any building or structure be erected closer than two hundred (200) feet to a residential district nor any parking area closer than one hundred (100) feet to any residential district. The first one hundred (100) feet from the property line shall be devoted to buffer areas to be maintained as green areas covered by well maintained laws, evergreen and suitable tree and shrub plantings.
Section 1515. - Height restrictions.
The maximum height of any building or structure erected or enlarged in this district shall be thirty-five (35) feet except that the height of any such building or other structure may be increased to a maximum of sixty-five (65) feet or such increased height as may be warranted when approved by the board of appeals provided that for every foot of height in excess of thirty-five (35) feet there shall be added to each yard requirement one (1) foot.
Section 1516. - Floor area ratio.
The total floor area of principal and accessory buildings shall not exceed forty (40) percent of the lot area.
Section 1517. - Site plan.
Must comply with site plan as described in section 1203.
(Ord. of 2-10-97(2))
