ARTICLE XXII. - DAY CARE CENTERS, GROUP DAY CARE HOMES AND FAMILY DAY CARE HOMES

Section 2200. - Category and definitions.
(a)
Day care centers: Any place operated by a person, society, agency, corporation, institution or group wherein are received for pay for group care, for fewer than twenty-four (24) hours per day, without transfer of legal custody, nineteen (19) or more children under the age of eighteen (18).
(b)
Group day care homes: Any place operated by any person or group wherein are received for pay not less than seven (7) nor more than eighteen (18) children under eighteen (18) years of age for care and supervision for less than twenty-four (24) hours per day.
(c)
Family day care homes: A private residence operated by any person who receives therein for pay for supervision and care for fewer than twenty-four (24) hours per day, without transfer of legal custody, three (3) but not more than six (6) children under the age of eighteen (18) and who are not related to such persons and whose parents or guardians are not residents of the private residence.
Section 2201. - Zones allowed.
(a)
Family day care homes (0—6 children) may be allowed in all zones, however, group day care (7—18 children) and day care centers (19 or more children) may be located only in commercial zones and industrial zones.
Exception: Churches—A church may operate a day care center or group day care from its premises regardless of the zone district in which it is located.
(b)
Family day care homes (six (6) children or less) may be allowed in all zones provided applicant has complied with the rules and regulations under III(2) and (3).
(Ord. of 3-11-91, § 1; Ord. of 10-12-92)
Section 2202. - Rules and regulations.
(a)
Any applicant for a group day care home or day care center shall submit an application to the planning and zoning commission for approval of that commission and the city council, setting forth a location and intended use of the site, names of all property owners and existing land uses within three hundred (300) feet and any other material or information pertinent to applicant's request, which the planning and zoning commission may require.
(b)
All applicants, including family day care home applicants shall file a copy of their certificate of registration or state license with the city clerk prior to obtaining a business license, or otherwise beginning operation of their home or center.
(c)
All group day care homes, day care centers, and family day care homes must meet and comply with all state rules and regulations, according to the Georgia Department of Human Resources, chapters 290-2-1, 290-2-2 and 290-2-3 and all state and local fire codes.
(Ord. of 3-11-91, § 2)
Section 2203. - Registration fees.
Group day care homes and day care centers, fifty dollars ($50.00) to cover expenses incurred as per article [section] 2300, section 2301.
