ARTICLE IV. - COLLECTION OF REFUSE[3]

Footnotes:
--- (3) ---
Cross reference— Unlawful accumulations, littering, § 9-20 et seq.; spillage from vehicles, §§ 19-9, 19-10.
State Law reference— Solid Waste Management Act, O.C.G.A. § 12-8-20 et seq.; littering, O.C.G.A. §§ 16-7-40 et seq., 40-6-249.

Sec. 12-70. - Definitions.
As used in this article, the following terms shall have the respective meanings ascribed to them:
Brown goods: Such items as household furniture, yard equipment, etc.
Consignee: One (1) person, a family or a group of persons, to whom a refuse container is consigned.
Refuse: Paper, waste, trash, boxes, garbage, bottles, cans and any other debris, but not tree limbs, cuttings or leaves.
Refuse container: One (1) of the containers owned by the city and consigned to the owner, tenant or occupant of a private dwelling house located within the city for the purpose of containing and removing refuse from the private dwelling house of the consignee.
White goods: Household appliances.
(Code 1968, § 9-13; Ord. of 6-12-95)
Cross reference— Definitions and rules of construction generally, § 1-2.
Sec. 12-71. - Refuse containers to be provided by city; responsibility of consignee.
(a)
The city shall consign one (1) refuse container to each owner, tenant or occupant of a private dwelling house located in the city; however, only one (1) refuse container shall be issued per family unit or group of persons occupying a private dwelling house, one (1) refuse container shall be issued for each occupied apartment in a duplex or multiple-family building.
(b)
Each consignee shall be responsible for such refuse container, shall use reasonable care to prevent such refuse container from being mutilated, abused or damaged, and shall return the refuse container to the city when the consignee vacates such dwelling house. Any person who deliberately mutilates, abuses or damages any refuse container shall be punished as provided in section 1-8.
(c)
If the polycart provided by the city shall be lost, damaged, or stolen, then it shall be the responsibility of the owner, tenant or occupant of the private dwelling or business to pay for the replacement of the polycart.
(Code 1968, § 9-14; Ord. of 4-13-92(1))
Sec. 12-72. - Placing of refuse containers for collection.
Refuse containers shall be kept in a place selected by the consignee, provided such location selected does not detract from the appearance of the area in which the private dwelling house is located; and wherever possible, the refuse container shall be kept in the rear of the private dwelling house, away from the street on which such private dwelling house fronts. On the day designated by the city as being the pickup day for refuse, each consignee shall be responsible for placing the refuse container adjacent to the street nearest the private dwelling house and used by the city refuse collection vehicle to remove the accumulated refuse. The refuse container shall be placed not less than two (2), nor more than five (5), feet from the curb or road pavement of the street or thoroughfare being used by the city refuse collection vehicle. After the refuse container has been emptied by the city sanitation department, the refuse container shall be removed by each consignee from such street or thoroughfare at the earliest convenience of the consignee; however, under no circumstances shall a refuse container be left adjacent to the street or thoroughfare for more than twelve (12) hours after pickup by the city sanitation department.
(Code 1968, § 9-15)
Sec. 12-73. - Trees, limbs, cuttings and leaves.
The refuse containers shall not be used to contain tree limbs, cuttings or leaves, and any such tree limbs, cuttings or leaves shall be placed on the edge of the street, clearly visible for pickup by the city at such times as are designated for such pickup.
Only yard trimmings generated from normal lawn maintenance will be picked up weekly. Normal lawn maintenance trimmings must be placed by the street and the total amount of yard trimmings shall not exceed ten (10) feet long by five (5) feet wide by four (4) feet high in any one (1) week. Trees and shrubs cannot exceed four (4) inches in diameter and must be cut in lengths not exceeding four (4) feet.
(Code 1968, § 9-16; Ord. of 6-12-95)
Sec. 12-74. - Refuse at business establishments.
(a)
All business establishments shall deposit cardboard, wooden boxes, paper, trash and other waste or debris to be collected for disposal in the enclosed container provided by the city for this purpose. Boxes shall be cut down or broken down prior to being placed in such containers for disposal.
(b)
Containers for business establishments shall be placed as directed by the city sanitation department so that such containers shall be easily accessible to the city refuse collection vehicle.
(Code 1968, § 9-17)
Sec. 12-75. - Charges for collection; use of system required.
All residences and commercial businesses occupied shall pay an amount to defray the cost of their respective garbage collection according to the rate and schedule as may be now or hereafter set and established by the mayor and city council. The charge shall be assessed on a monthly basis against each resident and place of business regardless of whether they elect to utilize the garbage collection service or not. All residence and businesses are hereby prohibited from disposing of garbage and refuse within the city limits except by way of utilizing the authorized garbage disposal containers provided by the city and in accordance with all city ordinances, rules and regulations.
(Code 1968, § 9-18; Ord. of 4-13-92(1))
Sec. 12-76. - Collections and disposals.
(a)
All refuse as defined herein must be placed in the container provided by the city for collection purposes.
(b)
The employees of the city sanitation department shall collect the refuse and dispose of it in the approved landfill not less often than once a week.
(c)
All such refuse shall be taken to and deposited in such landfill by the employees of the city sanitation department, and it shall be unlawful to otherwise dispose of such refuse.
(d)
Brown goods and white goods must either be delivered to the Toombs County Landfill or the Vidalia Recycling Center by the land owner or arrangements made with the city sanitation department for onsite removal. Onsite removal will result in an additional charge.
(e)
Any and all debris placed on any city right-of-way in accordance with the provisions of this section, must be removed within ten (10) days or appropriate action will be taken and a penalty may be imposed.
(Code 1968, § 9-19; Ord. of 6-12-95)
Sec. 12-77. - Burning trash in city containers.
It shall be unlawful for any person to burn trash in city containers.
(Code 1968, § 13-19)
Sec. 12-78. - Waste generated by contractors, tree surgeons and landscapes.
Contractors, tree surgeons and landscapers providing services and work within the city limits shall be required to haul away and dispose of their own debris in an acceptable manner and in accordance with state and federal law and to pay whatever fees are required for disposal of their own debris and garbage related to their business activity.
(Ord. of 4-13-92(3), § 9-20; Ord. of 6-12-95)
Sec. 12-79. - Private disposal by landowner.
Construction debris, demolition material and extensive debris from clearing activities exceeding the capacity outlined as acceptable per land owner, per lot and generated by activities undertaken by private property owners require arrangements made with the city sanitation department for removal and will result in additional charges. All landowners disposing of such refuse within the city shall pay for the disposal over and above the limitations outlined in section 12-73 as measured by the city sanitation department and in accordance with the assessments imposed upon disposal by the city sanitation department and county landfill. All disposal will be in accordance with state and federal law.
(Ord. of 5-11-92; Ord. of 6-12-95)
Sec. 12-80. - [City to collect, transport, and dispose of solid waste.]
Notwithstanding any other provisions to the contrary herein, all solid waste generated or accumulated in the incorporated areas of the city shall be collected, transported, and disposed of by the city through its designated agents, employees or contract representatives. No other person shall collect, transport or dispose of any solid waste generated or accumulated in the city except as provided.
(1)
Private solid waste contractors, operating within areas approved by the city manager, must comply with this chapter and all applicable ordinances, including licensing and franchising ordinances.
(2)
Individual residents may transport their own solid waste to approved disposal sites, provided they comply with all applicable city, state and federal ordinances and laws. Any individual resident who chooses to transport their own solid waste to an approved disposal site will remain liable for any pertinent solid waste fees.
(3)
For back door waste collection services for disabled residents or elderly residents with medical hardships, there will be no additional charge with proof of disability or hardship from a licensed medical professional or other proof as deemed by the city manager or his designee.
(Ord. of 11-14-11)
Secs. 12-81—12-90. - Reserved.
