DIVISION 11. - JUDICIAL ENFORCEMENT REMEDIES

Sec. 12-281. - Injunctive relief.
When the control authority finds that a user has violated (or continues to violate) any provision of this article, a wastewater discharge permit, or order issued hereunder, or any other pretreatment standard or requirement, the control authority may petition the Superior Court of Toombs or Montgomery County, depending on the location of the user, through the control authority's attorney for the issuance of a temporary or permanent injunction, as appropriate, which restrains or compels the specific performance of the wastewater discharge permit, order, or other requirement imposed by this article on activities of the user. The control authority may also seek such other action as is appropriate for legal and/or equitable relief, including a requirement for the user to conduct environmental remediation. A petition for injunctive relief shall not be a bar against, or a prerequisite for, taking any other action against a user.
Sec. 12-282. - Civil penalties.
(a)
A user, which has violated or continues to violate any provision of this article, a wastewater discharge permit, or order issued hereunder, or any other pretreatment standard or requirement shall be liable to the control authority for a maximum civil penalty of one thousand dollars ($1,000.00) per violation, per day.
(b)
The control authority may recover reasonable attorneys' fees, court costs, and other expenses associated with enforcement activities, including sampling and monitoring expenses, and the cost of any actual damages or fines incurred by the control authority.
(c)
In determining the amount of civil liability, the court shall take into account all relevant circumstances, including, but not limited to, the extent of harm caused by the violation, the magnitude and duration, any economic benefit gained through the user's violation, corrective actions by the user, the compliance history of the user, and any other factor as justice requires.
(d)
Filing a suit for civil penalties shall not be a bar against, or a prerequisite for, taking any other action against a user.
Sec. 12-283. - Criminal prosecution.
(a)
A user which has willfully or negligently violated any provision of this article, a wastewater discharge permit, or order issued hereunder, or any other pretreatment standard or requirement shall, upon conviction, be guilty of a misdemeanor, punishable by a fine of not more than one thousand dollars ($1,000.00) per violation, per day, or imprisonment for not more than one (1) year, or both.
(b)
A user which has willfully or negligently introduced any substance into the POTW which causes personal injury or property damage shall, upon conviction, be guilty of a misdemeanor and be subject to a penalty of at least one thousand dollars ($1,000.00) and/or be subject to imprisonment for one (1) year. This penalty shall be in addition to any other cause of action for personal injury or property damage available under state law.
(c)
A user which knowingly made any false statements, representations, or certifications in any application, record, report, plan, or other documentation filed, or required to be maintained, pursuant to this article, wastewater discharge permit, or order issued hereunder, or who falsified, tampered with, or knowingly rendered inaccurate any monitoring device or method required under this article shall, upon conviction, be punished by a fine of not more than one thousand dollars ($1,000.00) per violation per day, or imprisonment for not more than one (1) year, or both.
(d)
In the event of a second conviction, a user shall be punished by a fine of not more than one thousand dollars ($1,000.00) per violation per day, or imprisonment for not more than one (1) year, or both.
Sec. 12-284. - Remedies nonexclusive.
The remedies provided for in this article are not exclusive. The control authority may take any, all, or any combination of these actions against a non-compliant user. Enforcement of pretreatment violations will generally be in accordance with the control authority's enforcement response plan. However, the control authority may take other action against any user when the circumstances warrant.
Secs. 12-285—12-300. - Reserved.
