ARTICLE I. - IN GENERAL

Sec. 10-1. - Definitions.
modified
The following words, terms and phrases, when used in this article, shall have the meanings ascribed to them in this section, except where the context clearly indicates a different meaning:
Administrative fee means a component of an occupation tax that approximates the reasonable cost of handling and processing the occupation tax.
Dominant line means the type of business, within a multiple-line business, that the greatest amount of income is derived from.
License has the same meaning as the term "registration" in this article.
Location of office does not include a temporary work site which serves a single customer or project.
Occupation tax means a tax levied on a person for engaging in an occupation, profession, or business for revenue raising purposes.
Practitioner of profession or occupation is one who, by state law, requires state licensure regulating such profession or occupation. An employee of a business who is also a practitioner shall not fall under this definition, if the business pays an occupation tax.
Registration means the registering of a business entity or professional with the county for purposes of identifying businesses and professionals within the county who are subject to the county's occupational tax. The term "registration" has the same meaning as "license" as used in this chapter.
Regulatory fees means payments, whether designated as license fees, permit fees, or by another name, that are required by a local government as an exercise of its police power and as a part of or an aid to regulation of an occupation, profession, or business. The amount of a regulatory fee shall approximate the reasonable cost of the actual regulatory activity performed by county.
(Ord. No. 30-100-01, § 2, 10-25-1994)
Sec. 10-2. - Exemptions.
The following businesses are not covered by the provisions of this chapter but may be assessed an occupation tax or other type of tax pursuant to the provisions of other general laws of the state or by local law:
(1)
Those businesses regulated by the state public service commission.
(2)
Those electrical service businesses organized under chapter 3 of title 46 of the Official Code of Georgia Annotated (O.C.G.A. title 46, ch. 3).
(3)
Any farm operation for the production from or on the land of agricultural products, but not including agribusiness.
(4)
Cooperative marketing associations governed by O.C.G.A. § 2-10-105.
(5)
Insurance companies governed by O.C.G.A. § 33-8-8 et seq.
(6)
Motor common carriers governed by O.C.G.A. § 46-7-15.
(7)
Those businesses governed by O.C.G.A. § 48-5-355. Businesses that purchase carload lots of guano, meats, meal, flour, bran, cottonseed, or cottonseed meal and hulls.
(8)
Agricultural products and livestock raised in the state governed by O.C.G.A. § 48-5-356.
(9)
Depository financial institutions governed by O.C.G.A. § 48-6-93.
(10)
Facilities operated by a charitable trust governed by O.C.G.A. § 48-13-55.
(Ord. No. 30-100-01, § 10, 10-25-1994)
Sec. 10-3. - Insurance companies.
Insurance companies doing business within the unincorporated areas of the county are subject to this chapter and the provisions of article VII of this chapter regarding gross premiums taxes.
Secs. 10-4—10-24. - Reserved.
