Chapter 6.13 - ON-SITE SEWAGE MANAGEMENT SYSTEMS

6.13.010 - Definitions.
The definitions contained in the rules of Henry County board of health Rule No. 89-1, on-site sewage management systems as approved and adopted by the Henry County Board of health on December 12, 1989, as thereafter amended, are incorporated in this chapter and made a part hereof.
(Ord. 95-21 § 1, 1995)
6.13.020 - Rules and regulations adopted.
A.
The use of existing on-site sewage management systems (hereinafter referred to as "septic tanks") shall be allowed to continue until the same no longer functions as required under the ordinances of the city, or as may otherwise be directed by an ordinance of the city, at which time the owner of the property shall be required to connect onto the city's sewer system and to pay the fees required by the city for such sewage connection.
B.
Septic tanks are prohibited unless approved prior to installation by the mayor and council.
C.
The rules of Henry County board of health Rule No. 89-1, on-site sewage management systems as approved and adopted by the Henry County board of health on December 12, 1989, as thereafter amended, are incorporated by reference and made the on-site sewage management systems regulations for the city. The city clerk shall maintain a true and correct copy of Rule No. 89-1 as amended as part of the records of the city and as a part of this chapter.
(Ord. 95-21 § 2, 1995)
6.13.030 - Enforcement—Penalties for violations.
A.
The city court shall have jurisdiction to hear all cases involving an alleged violation of this chapter.
B.
In addition to those penalties and sanctions that may be imposed by the State Department of Human Resources and/or the county board of health acting as its agent, the judge of the city court is authorized to impose the following penalties, fines and sanctions upon conviction of a violation of this chapter:
1.
Upon conviction for a first offense, a fine of up to five hundred dollars ($500) per violation may be imposed.
2.
Upon conviction of a second offense occurring at a date and time subsequent to a prior offense, a fine of up to seven hundred fifty dollars ($750) per violation may be imposed.
3.
Upon conviction of a third offense occurring at a date and time subsequent to prior offenses, a fine of up to one thousand dollars ($1,000) per violation may be imposed.
4.
The city court judge shall have the discretion to impose an appropriate penalty within the limitations set forth in this section, to be determined upon consideration of the evidence presented.
(Ord. 95-21 § 3, 1995)
