Chapter 2 - ADMINISTRATION
FOOTNOTE(S):
--- (1) ---
State Law reference— Municipalities generally, O.C.G.A. § 36-30-1 et seq.
ARTICLE I. - IN GENERAL

Sec. 2-1. - Election to use county registration list.
(a)
Authority. Pursuant to the authority granted in O.C.G.A. § 21-3-125, the city elects to use the registration system of the county to maintain the registration list of electors of the city, and a copy thereof is available from the county board of registrars.
(b)
Registration of electors. Any person who is a resident of the city and who is registered as an elector with the county board of registrars and possesses the qualifications prescribed by the laws, and constitution of the state shall be eligible to vote in a municipal primary or election in the city.
(c)
List of registered voters. At least 14 days prior to any election or primary held in the city a list of the registered voters residing within the city shall be furnished to the city council.
(Ord. of 5-13-1985, §§ 1—3)
Sec. 2-2. - Recreation commission.
(a)
Established; composition; terms; vacancies. Under the provisions of House Bill 794, approved February 1, 1946, Act No. 622 of the Georgia Municipal law, there is hereby established a recreation commission. This commission shall be appointed by the city council and/or county commission and shall consist of not less than five or more than nine persons serving without pay. The term of office shall be five years or until their successors are appointed and qualified, except that the members of such a commission first appointed shall be appointed for such terms that the term of one member shall expire annually thereafter. Vacancies in such commission occurring otherwise than by expiration of term shall be filled by another appointment for the unexpired term.
(b)
Election of officers. Immediately after their appointment, they shall meet and organize by electing one of their members president and such other officers as may be necessary. The recreation commission shall have power to adopt bylaws, rules and regulations for the proper conduct of recreation for the city.
(c)
Duties and powers. The recreation commission shall provide, conduct and supervise public playground, playfields, indoor recreation centers, and other recreation facilities owned or controlled by the city (town, village, or county). It shall have the power to conduct any form of recreation or cultural activity that will employ the leisure time of the people in a wholesome or constructive manner. It may conduct such activities on properties under its own control, on public properties with the consent of the authorities thereof, and on private properties with the consent of the owners.
(d)
Appointment of superintendent. The recreation commission shall have the power to appoint or designate someone to act as superintendent who is trained or properly qualified for the work, and such other personnel as the commission deems proper.
(e)
Budget. Annually the recreation commission shall submit a budget to the city council for its approval. The commission may receive fees and revenues from the operation of recreation facilities and programs, and may also solicit or receive any gifts or bequest of money or other personal property or any donations to be applied, principal or income, for either temporary or permanent use for playgrounds or other recreation purposes.
(f)
Annual report. The recreation commission shall make an annual report to the city council and such other reports as from time to time may be requested.
(Ord. of 2-19-1975, §§ 1—6)
Sec. 2-3. - Planning commission.
(a)
Composition; terms; vacancies; removal; compensation. The planning commission shall consist of five members, who shall be residents of the city, appointed by the city council. The terms of the members shall be for four years, except that in the appointment of the first planning commission. Under the terms of the ordinance from which this section is derived, the first member shall be appointed for a term of one year, the second member shall be appointed for a term of two years, the third members shall be appointed for a term of three years, and the remaining members shall be appointed for a term of four years each. Any vacancy in membership shall be filled for the unexpired term by the city council who shall also have the authority to remove any member for cause, on written charges, after a public hearing. All members shall serve without compensation but may be reimbursed for actual expenses incurred in connection with their official duties.
(b)
Powers and duties. From and after the time when the planning commission shall have organized and selected its officers and shall have adopted its rules of procedure, then the planning commission shall have all the powers, duties and responsibilities set forth in the state constitution.
(Ord. of 5-15-1989, §§ 1, 2)
Secs. 2-4—2-24. - Reserved.
ARTICLE II. - CITY COUNCIL

Sec. 2-25. - Meeting dates.
The council shall meet at least once per month. The regular meetings of the council shall be on the second Monday night of each month, except in the month of January when the regular meeting shall be held on the first Monday night.
(Code 1973, § 2-1)
Sec. 2-26. - Compensation.
(a)
Mayor. The salary of the mayor is $200.00 per month.
(b)
Councilmembers. The compensation of members of the council is $75.00 per each regular meeting attended, and $25.00 per each special meeting attended.
(Ord. of 9-4-2001, §§ I, II)
State law reference— Authority to fix compensation and benefits for officers and employees, O.C.G.A. § 36-35-4.
Secs. 2-27—2-55. - Reserved.
ARTICLE III. - OFFICERS AND EMPLOYEES
DIVISION 1. - GENERALLY

Sec. 2-56. - Oath and bond of officers required.
Every officer, before entering upon the duties of his office, must take an oath similar to the oaths of the city councilmembers, substituting his office for councilmember when the term "councilmember" occurs in said oath. Every officer appointed or elected by the city council shall give such bond and security as is, or may be required of him, conditioned for the faithful performance of his duty.
(Code 1973, § 2-3)
Sec. 2-57. - Grounds for removal or suspension of officers.
An officer, elected by the city council, shall be removed from office or suspended as the council may elect for one or more of the following causes:
(1)
Incompetence, misfeasance or malfeasance in office;
(2)
Conviction of a crime involving moral turpitude;
(3)
Abandonment of office or neglect to perform the duties thereof; or
(4)
Failure to perform the duties of office.
(Code 1973, § 2-4)
Secs. 2-58—2-87. - Reserved.
DIVISION 2. - CITY CLERK

Sec. 2-88. - Oath of office.
Before entering upon the duties of his office, the city clerk shall take the following oath: "I do solemnly swear (or affirm) that I will well and truly demean myself as City Clerk of the City of Edison, and I will keep a true record of the proceedings of said City Council, and perform such other duties as may be required of me as Clerk. Further, I will properly demean myself as Treasurer of the City of Edison, that I will keep a true record of the finances of the City and keep a true account of monies expended and received by said corporation, and well and truly account of all monies expended and received by said corporation, and well and truly account for same, so help me God."
(Code 1973, § 2-27)
Sec. 2-89. - Duties; general enumeration.
The general duties of the city clerk are to:
(1)
Keep correct and full minutes of the proceedings of the city council together with all ordinances and resolutions passed by it, in a book or register kept for that purpose.
(2)
Receive all applications or petitions made to the city, to place them before the mayor, or city councilmember, at the meeting of the council next succeeding the receipt thereof.
(3)
Attend all council meetings.
(4)
Receive all applications for licenses and to issue the same as prescribed by ordinance.
(5)
Carefully preserve the records of the city and all valuable documents placed in his hands, as clerk, and while such records and documents are free and open to inspection, not to permit them to be removed or taken away except by order of the city council.
(6)
Keep a correct digest of all returns of taxable property in the city.
(7)
Keep the following books:
a.
A book of rough sheets of the minutes;
b.
A book of neat and accurate minutes;
c.
A book for recording licenses issued;
d.
An ordinance book;
e.
A book of charges in which all costs must be entered as coming into his hands, including the information of from whom, when, what account and the amount of monies received by the city clerk;
f.
An account of all monies paid into the city treasury;
g.
A checkbook which shall contain a margin showing the number, amount, date, for what purpose ordered, and to whom issued in each case; and
h.
A book in which he shall register the names and places of business and the date of license of each person doing or carrying on any business, calling, trade or profession in the city, under the proper classification.
(8)
Keep a book in which he shall enter all sums of money paid, to whom paid, when paid, and for what purpose, and all sums of money received, from whom, when and on what account, and take a receipt for all money paid out, and pay out the same only when approved and audited as prescribed in this Code.
(9)
Keep all funds or other valuables belonging to the city in a safe place of deposit.
(10)
Furnish the council monthly statements, with a detailed report of all receipts and explanations, and the different orders upon which money has been paid out by him, and all sources from which he has received money, and his book shall at all times be subject to examination by the council.
(11)
Pay out no money except upon orders passed by the city council, drawn up and signed by him, and countersigned by the mayor, or in his absence, by the mayor pro tem.
(12)
Correct all executions for taxes or fines.
(Code 1973, §§ 2-29, 2-30)
Secs. 2-90—2-106. - Reserved.
ARTICLE IV. - FINANCE
FOOTNOTE(S):
--- (2) ---
State Law reference— Bonds, O.C.G.A. § 36-82-1 et seq.; local government investment pool, O.C.G.A. § 36-83-1 et seq.
DIVISION 1. - GENERALLY

Sec. 2-107. - Fees and charges.
Whenever in this Code or in any ordinance it is provided that any fee or charge is "as established by the city" or substantially similar language appears, such language shall mean that the fee is as provided by ordinance. Such fees may be consolidated into a fee schedule.
Sec. 2-108. - Payment of claims after council approval.
All claims against the city, other than for officials' salaries and expenses, shall be left with the city clerk at least two days before any regular meeting of the city council. If the council approves the payment of the same, then the city clerk shall draw an order for the same on the treasurer.
(Code 1973, § 2-31)
Secs. 2-109—2-129. - Reserved.
DIVISION 2. - BUDGET

FOOTNOTE(S):
--- (3) ---
State Law reference— Budgets and audits, O.C.G.A. § 36-81-1 et seq.
Sec. 2-130. - Fiscal year.
The fiscal year of the city shall begin on July 1 of each year and end on the following June 30th.
(Ord. of 7-1-1979)
State law reference— Establishment of fiscal year, O.C.G.A. § 36-81-3.
Sec. 2-131. - Annual budget.
An annual budget for the city and for each department thereof shall be adopted on or before the last meeting in June of each year for the ensuing fiscal year.
(Ord. of 7-1-1979, § 17-2)
State law reference— Adoption of budget, O.C.G.A. § 36-3-6.
Sec. 2-132. - Quarterly reports.
There shall be prepared and issued at the end of each quarter during the fiscal year a budget report on the accounting system and placed on file in the minutes of the city council.
(Ord. of 7-1-1979, § 17-4)
Sec. 2-133. - Accounting method established.
There shall be established and maintained a double entry accounting system on a cash basis and all accounts shall be posted promptly.
(Ord. of 7-1-1979, § 17-5)
Secs. 2-134—2-164. - Reserved.
DIVISION 3. - PURCHASING

FOOTNOTE(S):
--- (4) ---
State Law reference— Preferences for products manufactured in state, O.C.G.A. § 36-84-1 et seq.; Georgia Local Government Public Works Construction Law, O.C.G.A. § 36-91-1 et seq.
Sec. 2-165. - Signed requisition and recordkeeping required.
The mayor or mayor pro tem is the agent for the city for the purpose of purchasing all goods, wares, fixtures or supplies of any kind for the city and all purchases made shall be made through the mayor's or mayor pro tem's office by requisition upon the city clerk, which requisition shall be signed by the particular department head and by the city clerk, or mayor. The city clerk is required to keep a copy of all purchase orders and all requisitions on file in his office. No purchase order is required for any purchase of $100.00 or less.
(Code 1973, § 2-5)
Sec. 2-166. - Sealed bids required for items costing more than $5,000.00.
No purchases of any kind whatsoever exceeding the cost of $5,000.00 shall be made by the city without first obtaining sealed bids on such purchases by the city from not less than two separate and distinct suppliers or sellers. Said purchase shall be made from the lowest bid received; exception may be made in cases of emergency or necessity, such cases to be adjudged by the council.
(Code 1973, § 2-6)
