ARTICLE IX. - HAPPY HOUR

Sec. 6-281. - Promotion and sales.
(a)
No licensee or employee or agent of a licensee, in connection with the sale or other disposition of alcoholic beverages for consumption on the premises, shall:
(1)
Offer or deliver any free alcoholic beverage to any person or group of persons;
(2)
Deliver more than one alcoholic beverage to one person at a time;
(3)
Sell, offer to sell, or deliver to any person or group of persons any alcoholic beverage at a price less than the price regularly charged for such alcoholic beverage during the same calendar week, except at private functions not open to the public;
(4)
Sell, offer to sell, or deliver to any person or group of persons an unlimited number of alcoholic beverages during any set period of time for a fixed price, except at private functions not open to the public;
(5)
Sell, offer to sell, or deliver alcoholic beverages to any person or group of persons on any one day at prices less than those charged the general public on that day, except at private functions not open to the public;
(6)
Sell, offer to sell, or deliver alcoholic beverages, including malt beverages, in any container which holds more than 32 fluid ounces (0.947 liters), except to two or more persons at any one time;
(7)
Increase the volume of alcohol contained in a drink without increasing proportionately the price regularly charged for such alcoholic beverage during the same calendar week;
(8)
Encourage or permit on the licensed premises any game or contest which involves the drinking of alcoholic beverages or the awarding of alcoholic beverages as a prize.
(b)
Each licensee shall maintain a schedule of the price charged for all alcoholic beverages to be served and consumed on the licensed premises or in any room or part thereof. The licensee shall not vary the schedule of prices from day-to-day or from hour-to-hour within a single day. The schedule of prices shall be posted in a conspicuous manner in view of the paying public and said schedule shall be effective for not less than one calendar week.
(c)
No licensee shall advertise or promote in any way, whether within or without the licensed premises, any of the practices prohibited under subsection (a) of this section.
(d)
No provision of this section shall be construed to prohibit licensees from offering free food or entertainment at any time, or to prohibit licensees from including an alcoholic beverage as part of a meal package, or to prohibit the sale or delivery of wine by the bottle or carafe when sold with meals or to more than one person.
(e)
It is the intent of this section to prohibit activities typically associated with promotions referred to as "happy hour" or similarly designated promotions.
(f)
The city administrator or designee shall have responsibility for the enforcement of this article.
(g)
No licensee may require the purchase of any alcoholic beverage as a part of or prerequisite to the purchase of any other product or service. If alcoholic beverages are included as part of a package of other goods and/or services, the alcoholic beverages must be priced separately and all customers must be allowed to purchase the remaining goods and services without the alcoholic beverages at a price from which the full price of the alcoholic beverages has been deducted.
(h)
Any person deemed guilty of violating this section may be punished by a fine not to exceed $1,000.00 and/or by imprisonment not to exceed 60 days in the common jail of the county. Licensees may further be subject to revocation proceedings.
(Ord. of 11-4-1996(3), § 7-2071)
Secs. 6-282—6-299. - Reserved.
