ARTICLE IV. - ELECTRICAL CODE

Sec. 5-97. - Adopted.
There is hereby adopted by the city for the purpose of establishing rules and regulations relative to installation of electrical conductors and equipment within or on public and private buildings or other structures, that certain code known as the NFPA 70, National Electrical Code, as adopted by the State of Georgia with Georgia State Amendments, and including any chapters pertaining to administration and appendices included in the National Electrical Code but not adopted by the state, as revised and the whole thereof and such code is hereby adopted and incorporated as fully as if set out at length in this article. One copy is filed in the office of the building department, and is available for review by the general public upon request.
(Code 1991, § 5-81; Ord. of 5-27-1996, § II; Ord. No. 01302002-1 , § III, 1-30-2002; Ord. No. 07232008-1 , § IV, 7-23-2008; Ord. No. 02242020-1 , § 5, 2-24-2020)
State Law reference— National Electrical Code as mandatory state standard, O.C.G.A. §§ 8-2-20(9)(B)(i)(II), 8-2-25(a), 8-2-28.
Sec. 5-98. - Work and wiring—Rules and regulations; definitions.
(a)
All electric work and wiring done in the city shall be under the rules and regulations passed by the city council, and the following rules and regulations are hereby adopted for the construction, maintenance and repair of electrical work and wiring in the city and the practice of the trade of electrical work and wiring in the city.
(b)
The term "electrical contractor" means any person who engages in the business of electrical contracting under express or implied contract or who bids for, offers to perform, purports to have the capacity to perform, or does perform electrical contracting services under express or implied contract. The term "electrical contractor" shall not include a person who is an employee of an electrical contractor and who receives only a salary or hourly wage for performing electrical contracting work.
(Code 1991, § 5-84)
Sec. 5-99. - Work and wiring—Direction of chief building official.
All electrical work and wiring done in the city shall be done under the direction of the chief building official. Anywhere in this article where the term "inspector" or "electrical inspector" is used, it shall be understood to mean the chief building official or someone by the chief building official duly authorized as such. Such inspector or electrical inspector shall be under the control and direction of the chief building official. Any person shall have the right to appeal from any ruling of the chief building official to the city council, which ruling shall be final.
Sec. 5-100. - Work and wiring—Person to perform.
No electrical work or wiring shall be performed in the city except by or under the direction of an electrical contractor, which electrical contractor shall have a written permit before commencing any electrical work or wiring from the chief building official as provided in this article.
(Code 1991, § 5-86)
Sec. 5-101. - Examination and license required.
(a)
Every person desiring to engage in the business of electrical installation, construction and repair in the city shall, before doing so, obtain an occupational license.
(b)
Every person shall, before obtaining an occupational license, present to the chief building official a copy of the person's current contractor's license as required by the Georgia Construction Industry Licensing Board Act (O.C.G.A. § 43-14-1 et seq.).
(Code 1991, § 5-87)
Sec. 5-102. - Supervision of helper or apprentice electrician.
Any person working as a helper or apprentice electrician shall work only under the direct supervision of an electrical contractor who shall be on the same premises with such helper or apprentice.
(Code 1991, § 5-88)
Sec. 5-103. - Licenses.
All occupational licenses shall expire on and shall be null and void after January 1 of each year. No electrical work or wiring shall be done by and no permits shall be issued to any electrical contractor who has no such license, as provided in this article, in full force and effect at the time a permit for electrical work and wiring shall be applied for.
(Code 1991, § 5-89)
Sec. 5-104. - Electricians' violations.
Any electrical contractor, who shall have been licensed as such under the provisions of this article, who violates any of the provisions of this article or who certifies under oath to the electrical inspector the electrical contractor has supervised the installation, construction or repair of any electrical work when, in fact, the electrical contractor has not shall be cited by the electrical inspector to appear before the city council to show cause why the electrical contractor's certificate as an electrical contractor should not be suspended, as provided for under O.C.G.A. § 43-14-12. After such citation has been personally served upon the electrical contractor, the electrical contractor shall have the right to appear before the city council and offer such evidence in the electrical contractor's behalf as the electrical contractor deems necessary. At the same time the electrical inspector shall offer evidence showing the violations as charged. After hearing the evidence, the city council shall then, by a majority vote, find the electrical inspector guilty or not guilty as the evidence warrants. If found guilty the city council may suspend or refuse to restore a license as provided under O.C.G.A. § 43-14-12. If found not guilty the charge shall be dropped. If the person so cited to appear shall fail to appear at the time and place specified in the citation, the person's license shall be automatically suspended by the city council. When a license has been suspended as provided in this section, the licensee thereunder shall not be allowed to act as an electrical contractor again in the city until the electrical contractor has appealed the licensee's suspension to the state construction industry licensing board and the board has reinstated the licensee's license.
(Code 1991, § 5-90)
Sec. 5-105. - Permits—Required.
A permit will be required to do any electrical work and wiring of any character, make any change, extensions or disconnect wiring, or change the location of any fixture or service connection. It shall be unlawful for any person to do any electrical work or wiring, alteration, or repair in the city without a permit from the chief building official.
(Code 1991, § 5-91)
Sec. 5-106. - Permits—Persons to whom issued.
Permits to do electrical work or wiring will be issued only to an electrical contractor with a current state license.
(Code 1991, § 5-92)
Sec. 5-107. - Permits—Signature of inspector prerequisite to issuance.
The inspector shall sign all applications for electrical work and wiring before a permit shall be issued.
(Code 1991, § 5-93)
Sec. 5-108. - Permits—Applications, issuance, permission for deviation.
Application blanks for electrical work and wiring, installing or connecting or constructing such electrical work and wiring shall be furnished by the city. Application for such permit, describing the work to be done, shall be made in writing to the electrical inspector by the electrical contractor installing the work. The application shall be accompanied by such specifications and schedules to determine whether the installation as described will be in conformity with the requirements of this article and, when deemed necessary by the inspector, shall be accompanied by drawings. If it is found that the installation as described will conform with all legal requirements, and if the applicant has complied with the provisions of this article, a permit for such installation shall be issued. No deviation may be made from the installation described in the permit without the approval of the electrical inspector.
(Code 1991, § 5-94)
Sec. 5-109. - Inspection fees; charged and collected.
There shall be charged and collected by the city an inspection fee, as provided in the city fee schedule, for all new, old and remodeled electrical work and wiring inspected by the inspector.
(Code 1991, § 5-95)
Sec. 5-110. - Permit fees.
Amended by Ordinance of 11-14-2022 (1)
Electrical permit fees are on file at the city clerk's office and the administrative offices of the building department.
(Code 1991, § 5-96; Ord. of 12-28-1994, § III; Ord. of 12-23-1996(2), § II; Ord. No. 01302002-2 , § II, 1-30-2002)
Sec. 5-111. - Inspection—Notice; certificate or satisfactory inspection.
Upon completion of any wiring of any building for light, heat or power, it shall be the duty of the electrical contractor doing the wiring to notify the chief building official, who shall inspect such wiring and appliances. If approved by the official, the building official shall issue a certificate of satisfactory inspection which shall contain the date of such inspection, and no such certificate shall be issued unless electrical wiring and appliances is in strict conformity to the rules and regulations prescribed or required by this article, nor shall current be turned on for such installation until such certificate is issued.
(Code 1991, § 5-97)
Sec. 5-112. - Inspection—Prior to concealing equipment or wiring.
When any electrical equipment authorized by a permit or an annual permit is to be concealed against inspection by the permanent placement of parts of a building, the electrical contractor installing the equipment shall notify the chief building official, and such equipment shall not be concealed until it has been inspected and approved by the chief building official.
(Code 1991, § 5-98)
Sec. 5-113. - Defective work and failure to complete job.
Any electrical contractor who shall fail to correct any defect in the electrical contractor's work or shall fail to complete a job, after having been duly notified by the chief building official, shall not receive any further permits until such job has been completed or such defect has been corrected. In any case in which any electrical contractor shall continue to or persistently violate this article in regard to electrical affairs or the orders of the electrical inspector, the license of such person may be suspended by the city council.
(Code 1991, § 5-99)
Secs. 5-114—5-139. - Reserved.
