ARTICLE VI. - HOME DELIVERY

Sec. 3-358. - Home delivery of alcoholic beverages.
(a)
Persons, which shall include individuals, limited liability companies, corporations, associations, partnerships and other legal entities, holding licenses to sell beer, malt beverages, and/or wine by the drink for consumption on the premises issued by the city, upon delivery of a letter to the business and tax licensing administrator declaring their intent to do so, may deliver package beer, malt beverages, and/or wine subject to and in conformity with the rules and restrictions set forth in O.C.G.A. § 3-3-10, as well as any regulations or other guidance promulgated by the state department of revenue in connection with O.C.G.A. § 3-3-10.
(b)
Persons, which shall include individuals, limited liability companies, corporations, associations, partnerships and other legal entities, holding licenses to sell beer, malt beverages, wine, and/or liquor at retail for consumption off the premises issued by the city, upon delivery of a letter to the business and tax licensing administrator declaring their intent to do so, may deliver package beer, malt beverages, wine and/or liquor subject to and in conformity with the rules and restrictions set forth in O.C.G.A. § 3-3-10, as well as any regulations or other guidance promulgated by the state department of revenue in connection with O.C.G.A. § 3-3-10.
(c)
Upon receipt of a letter from a licensee declaring their intent to engage in the home delivery of alcoholic beverages pursuant to this section, the business and tax licensing administrator shall issue a license, at no additional cost, documenting the licensee's authorization to engage in the home delivery of alcoholic beverages. Such license shall run concurrently with the underlying license:
(1)
To sell beer, malt beverages, and/or wine by the drink for consumption on the premises; or
(2)
To sell beer, malt beverages, wine, and/or liquor at retail for consumption off the premises.
(d)
In addition to any criminal penalties that may be provided by law, upon each violation of any provision of O.C.G.A. § 3-3-10 a licensee or a third party, as defined in O.C.G.A. § 3-3-10, as the same may be amended from time to time, shall be subject to a fine of $500.00 and/or a suspension of the authorization to deliver alcoholic beverages pursuant to this section for up to 30 days, upon the affirmative vote of the city council. Any violation committed by an employee of a licensee or a third party acting on behalf of a licensee shall be attributed to such licensee and shall be deemed to be an act taken by such licensee for purposes of this section. Any violation committed by an employee or an independent contractor acting on behalf of a third party shall be attributed to such third party and shall be deemed to be an act taken by such third party of purposes of this section. A licensee and a third party may each separately be fined and/or suspended for the same violation under this section. Any suspension or revocation of the underlying license:
(1)
To sell beer, malt beverages, and/or wine by the drink for consumption on the premises; or
(2)
To sell beer, malt beverages, wine, and/or liquor at retail for consumption off the premises;
shall automatically suspend for the same period of time or revoke the license for home delivery of alcoholic beverages, as the case may be.
(e)
Licensees engaging in the home delivery of alcoholic beverages shall comply with all other applicable provisions set forth in this section, including, but not limited to, the applicable provisions of article III of this chapter.
( Ord. No. 05-03082021 , § 1, 3-8-2021)
