Chapter 2 - ADMINISTRATION[1]
Footnotes:
--- (1) ---
Editor's note— By resolution dated June 11, 1991, the board of commissioners approved and adopted the Burke County Comprehensive Plan as a general guide for future growth, change, development and progress in the county. The plan was approved by the state department of community affairs as having met the minimum planning standards of the 1989 Georgia Planning Act as set forth in O.C.G.A. § 36-70-1 et seq. An official copy of the comprehensive plan is on file in the office of the clerk of the board of commissioners.
Regulations pertaining to county employees on such subjects as employment policy, employee benefits and leaves of absence, travel and employee appraisals are contained in the Burke County Personnel Policies and Procedures Manual which is compiled and published separately by the county. An official copy of such manual and the retirement plan for county employees are on file in the office of the clerk of the board of commissioners.
Cross reference— Any ordinance fixing the salary of any county officer or employee saved from repeal, § 1-6(4); the administrative ordinances or resolutions of the county not in conflict or inconsistent with the provisions of this Code saved from repeal, § 1-6(13); civil emergencies, ch. 18; taxation, ch. 38.
State Law reference— Provisions applicable to counties and municipalities, O.C.G.A. § 36-60-1 et seq.; provisions applicable to counties and municipal corporations, O.C.G.A. § 36-80-1 et seq.; offenses involving public records, documents and other items, O.C.G.A. § 45-11-1; inspection of public records, O.C.G.A. § 45-6-6; duty of incumbent to deliver office property to successor, O.C.G.A. § 45-6-7 et seq.; records as public property, O.C.G.A. § 50-18-102; records management plans for local governments, O.C.G.A. § 50-18-90; records management plan required, O.C.G.A. § 50-18-99(e); supplemental powers of municipalities and counties enumerated, Ga. Const. art. IX, § II, ¶ III.

ARTICLE I. - IN GENERAL

Secs. 2-1—2-30. - Reserved.
ARTICLE II. - BOARD OF COMMISSIONERS[2]

Footnotes:
--- (2) ---
Related laws reference—Board of commissioners, art. I.
State Law reference— Authority to control property of the county, O.C.G.A. § 36-5-22.1(a)(1); county government generally, O.C.G.A. § 36-1-1 et seq.; county a body corporate, O.C.G.A. § 36-1-3; claims against counties, O.C.G.A. § 36-11-1 et seq.; grants of state funds to counties, O.C.G.A. § 36-17-1 et seq.; organization of county government, O.C.G.A. § 36-5-20 et seq.; matters over which governing authority has jurisdiction, O.C.G.A. § 36-5-22.1; county property generally, O.C.G.A. § 36-9-1 et seq.; code of ethics for government service, O.C.G.A. § 45-10-1; board of commissioners authorized to adopt ordinances for the governing and policing of the unincorporated areas of the county, O.C.G.A. § 36-1-20(a); counties a body corporate and politic, Ga. Const. art. IX, § I, ¶ I; county officers; election; term; compensation, Ga. Const. art. IX, § I, ¶ III; home rule for counties, Ga. Const. art. IX, § II, ¶ I.

Sec. 2-31. - Meetings.
(a)
The board of commissioners shall hold regular meetings on the second Tuesday of each month at 6:00 p.m., unless otherwise ordered by the board.
(b)
Special meetings may be held upon call by the chairman of the board of commissioners or any three members. Due notice of such meetings shall be in accordance with O.C.G.A. § 50-14-1(d).
(c)
Meetings shall be held in the board of commissioners' meeting room at the Burke County Courthouse in Waynesboro, Georgia.
Sec. 2-32. - Agenda.
There shall be a written agenda prepared prior to each board meeting. Persons who desire to address the members of the board at a meeting shall notify the county administrator's office by an agenda deadline set by the board of commissioners.
(Ord. No. 03-02, § 1, 10-14-2003)
Sec. 2-33. - Parliamentary procedure.
The proceedings of the board of commissioners shall be generally governed by Robert's Rules of Order, Newly Revised, so far as applicable and not inconsistent with the special rules of the board of commissioners and this Code.
Sec. 2-34. - County attorney.
The board shall have the authority to hire a county attorney in such manner and for such compensation as will serve the best interests of the county.
(Ord. No. 19-04 , § 1, 7-9-2019)
Secs. 2-35—2-65. - Reserved.
ARTICLE III. - AUTHORITIES, BOARDS AND COMMISSIONS[3]
Footnotes:
--- (3) ---
Cross reference— Animal control board, § 10-1; planning commission, § 26-7.03.00 et seq.
Related laws references—Board of elections and registration, art. II; economic development authority, art. III.
State Law reference— Code of ethics for members of boards, commissions and authorities, O.C.G.A. § 45-10-3.

DIVISION 1. - GENERALLY

Secs. 2-66—2-85. - Reserved.
DIVISION 2. - HUMAN RELATIONS COMMISSION

Sec. 2-86. - Establishment.
There is hereby created a Human Relations Commission for the City of Waynesboro and the County of Burke to be called the Waynesboro-Burke County Human Relations Commission, referred to in this division as the human relations commission.
(Ord. of 8-8-93, § 1)
Sec. 2-87. - Composition.
The human relations commission shall be composed of six members, with equal representation for the black and white communities, all bona fide adult residents of the city or county. Three members shall be appointed by the city council of Waynesboro (hereinafter, "city council") and three by the board of commissioners of the county. Its membership shall represent a cross section of the community. In the interest of harmony and good will, a strict ethnic balance shall be carefully maintained in the appointment of human relations commission members. The mayor of the City of Waynesboro and the chairman of the board of commissioners of the county shall be ex officio members of the human relations commission and shall be notified of each meeting.
(Ord. of 8-8-93, § 2)
Sec. 2-88. - Terms of office.
All appointments to the human relations commission shall be for a staggered term of three years. In the event of the death, resignation or removal from office of any member, his successor shall be appointed to serve the unexpired term. Members may be reappointed at the pleasure of the city council or the board of commissioners. All members shall continue in office until their successors shall have been appointed unless removed for nonattendance or other cause.
(Ord. of 8-8-93, § 3)
Sec. 2-89. - Officers and their terms of office.
The human relations commission shall elect a chairman and such other officers as it deems necessary from its members. Such officers shall serve in their respective offices for a term of one year or until their successors shall be elected. They may, at the pleasure of the human relations commission, be reelected.
(Ord. of 8-8-93, § 4)
Sec. 2-90. - Compensation.
All members of the human relations commission shall serve without compensation. They may, upon recommendation of the executive director and approval of the body, be reimbursed for travel, meals and registration fees for seminars or training sessions related to their service. Such reimbursements shall be documented in monthly financial reports to the city council and the board of commissioners.
(Ord. of 8-8-93, § 5)
Sec. 2-91. - Executive director.
(a)
The executive director of the human relations commission shall be employed by the city council and the board of commissioners upon recommendation of the human relations commission. The applicant should have a minimum of two years of college, which may be waived if the applicant has commensurate and satisfactory experience in positions of leadership, management and personnel. He must be able to communicate effectively with all levels of the community's citizens, from laborers to company executives. He must possess sufficient office skills to prepare correspondence, compile records, and provide basic accounting and financial reports.
(b)
The executive director may be terminated for cause by action of a majority of both the city council and county commission upon recommendation of either or upon recommendation of the human relations commission members.
(c)
The position of executive director shall be part-time, 20 hours per week until activity requires and both the city council and county commission approve additional hours. Initial compensation shall be determined by the city council and county commission with consideration given in subsequent years to recommendations of the human relations commission.
(d)
Should the work load justify additional staff, request shall be presented to the city council and county commission by the human relations commission. Until such approval, no other staff members shall be employed. Voluntary assistance should be accepted and encouraged.
(Ord. of 8-8-93, § 6)
Sec. 2-92. - Office space and equipment.
The city council and the county commission shall determine needs and make provision for office space, facilities, and equipment.
(Ord. of 8-8-93, § 7)
Sec. 2-93. - Budget and finance.
(a)
The human relations commission shall prepare annual budget requests to present to the city council and county commission. All expenditures of the human relations commission shall be limited to those specified in the budget as approved by the city and county. The human relations commission shall be authorized to contract with state and/or federal agencies provided that such contracts shall first be approved by city and county governments.
(b)
A financial report and activity statement shall be presented to both the city and county each month detailing budget expenditures and operational expenses. The activity statement will report the number of cases handled in the period and the nature of each complaint or request. Names of persons, agencies, firms or industries involved will remain confidential.
(Ord. of 8-8-93, § 8)
Sec. 2-94. - Inspection and audit of financial records.
The financial records of the human relations commission shall be audited annually by a qualified external auditor approved by the city and county. Such audit, when completed, shall be submitted to the human relations commission for approval; and a copy shall be provided the internal auditors of both the city council and county commission. All financial records of the human relations commission shall be open for inspection by the county grand jury.
(Ord. of 8-8-93, § 9)
Sec. 2-95. - Meetings.
The human relations commission shall set forth the time, place and frequency of its meetings to accomplish the purpose of this division, and such meetings shall be open to the public. The right to deliberate in closed session is reserved by the human relations commission consistent with state open meeting laws.
(Ord. of 8-8-93, § 10)
Sec. 2-96. - Quorum.
Four members of the human relations commission and the executive director shall constitute a quorum for the transaction of business.
(Ord. of 8-8-93, § 11)
Sec. 2-97. - Rules and bylaws.
The human relations commission shall adopt such rules as it deems expedient for the conduct of its business.
(Ord. of 8-8-93, § 12)
Sec. 2-98. - Reports.
The human relations commission shall submit monthly written reports of its activities to the city council and county commission. At year end, an annual report shall be submitted with budget requests summarizing the number of cases or complaints submitted to the agency and the results obtained. Such other reports as requested by the city council or county commission will be promptly supplied.
(Ord. of 8-8-93, § 13)
Sec. 2-99. - Mission statement.
The human relations commission is hereby created for the purpose of asserting, protecting and preserving human rights and liberties. To achieve that purpose, this agency will dedicate its energies and influence to mediation, negotiation, communication and investigation in all issues or situations that pose threats to civic harmony and positive human relations. It shall, whenever possible, provide a forum for discussion, debate and resolution of problems or potential problems. It shall strive to establish credibility with the entire community and thus to collect and disseminate factual information in times of unrest or distrust. The human relations commission shall undertake its mission without regard to race, religion, ethnic origin, age or sex.
(Ord. of 8-8-93, § 14)
Sec. 2-100. - Labor-management disputes.
The human relations commission will strive to assist both employers and employees in resolving questions of equal employment based on equal employment opportunity commission guidelines. It will make itself available to assist local business and industry in cases of labor-management disputes, whether the case involves individuals or groups of individuals. To enhance its effectiveness in these areas, the executive director shall attempt to establish some rapport with plant managers, corporate officers, personnel managers or owners of businesses by personal visit and/or written communication outlining services offered.
(Ord. of 8-8-93, § 15)
Sec. 2-101. - Procedures.
(a)
Upon complaint by any person alleging unlawful practices, discrimination, or unfair treatment, the executive director shall reduce the complaint to written form to be signed by the complainant and permanently filed in human relations commission records. The director shall assist the client in exhausting every avenue of reconciliation.
(b)
The director shall attempt to assist both parties to arrive at a fair and equitable settlement, carefully investigating all charges and countercharges. He may request records pertaining to the complainant's performance, attendance and other documents relevant to the case.
(c)
If no solution can be reached and he deems it advisable, the director, with approval of all parties involved, may submit the matter to the human relations commission for arbitration.
(d)
If violations of fair labor practices are discovered, the director shall endeavor to eliminate any such infraction by informal and voluntary means. If all efforts fail to provide a solution and the director and the human relations commission have exhausted every means at their disposal, the case may be referred to the equal employment opportunity commission for appropriate action.
(Ord. of 8-8-93, § 16)
Sec. 2-102. - Exemptions.
This division shall not apply to religious corporations, religious associations, religious educational institutions, or religious societies with respect to the employment of individuals of a particular religion to perform work connected with the conduct by such corporations, associations, educational institutions or societies of its activities.
(Ord. of 8-8-93, § 17)
Sec. 2-103. - Cooperation.
The human relations commission is encouraged to invite and enlist the cooperation of all ethnic, racial, religious groups and community organizations in carrying on its work and to act as a coordinating agency among them and such other groups in the establishment and maintenance of educational programs designed to accomplish its purpose of improving human relations. It shall readily cooperate with the mayor and council, county commission, the board of education, and all other agencies to inform the community of services available and to encourage peaceful and effective methods of solving community problems.
(Ord. of 8-8-93, § 18)
Sec. 2-104. - Legal services.
Legal representation, advice and review of contracts and other records shall be provided by the city and county attorneys. Obtaining legal representation other than city or county attorneys shall require the written consent of both governing bodies.
(Ord. of 8-8-93, § 19)
Secs. 2-105—2-125. - Reserved.
DIVISION 3. - JOINT DEVELOPMENT AUTHORITY[4]

Footnotes:
--- (4) ---
State Law reference— Downtown development authority created, O.C.G.A. § 36-42-4; Development Authorities Law, O.C.G.A. § 36-62-1 et seq.; Resource Recovery Development Authorities Law, O.C.G.A. § 36-63-1 et seq.; Georgia Development Authority Act, O.C.G.A. § 50-10-1 et seq.

Sec. 2-126. - Statement of support.
The board of commissioners hereby supports the formation of a joint development authority in the counties of Wilkes, Warren, Lincoln, Columbia, Jefferson, Washington, Burke, McDuffie, and Glascock and urges CEDO region 7 to pursue the formation and activation of such a joint authority.
(Res. of 12-18-94)
Sec. 2-127. - Appointment of members.
(a)
The board of commissioners shall appoint one member who shall serve initially for a period of two years and a second member that shall serve initially for a period of four years. Thereafter, all members appointed shall serve for a period of four years.
(b)
The board of commissioners shall appoint only two members to the Central Savannah River Area Unified Development Authority at any time. The term of office of such appointment shall be determined by the bylaws of the authority following its initial composition. Any person appointed to serve on the Central Savannah River Area Unified Development Authority shall be a resident of Burke County prior to the appointment.
(Res. of 12-28-94)
Secs. 2-128—2-150. - Reserved.
DIVISION 4. - RESERVED[5]

Footnotes:
--- (5) ---
Editor's note— Ord. No. 05-01, § 2, adopted March 8, 2005, repealed Div. 4, § 2-151, which pertained to the recreation commission. See also the Code Comparative Table.

Secs. 2-151—2-175. - Reserved.
DIVISION 5. - HOSPITAL AUTHORITY

Sec. 2-176. - Hospital authority.
(a)
Pursuant to a resolution, adopted April 16, 1945, declaring the need for a hospital authority and in accordance with O.C.G.A. § 31-7-72, the Waynesboro-Burke County Hospital Authority was created and established.
(b)
Pursuant to unofficial opinion U70-217 (11-19-70) issued by the state attorney general and in accordance with 1973 Ga. Laws, page 2656 as amended by 1980 Ga. Laws, page 3976, it was provided that all vacancies on the hospital authority board would be filled by appointment of the governing authority of the county. Likewise, by resolution adopted February 20, 1979, it was agreed by the city and county that new members of the board would be appointed by the county. The resolution adopted April 9, 1991, provided that the hospital authority would consist of a five-member board of trustees serving staggered terms.
Secs. 2-177—2-195. - Reserved.
ARTICLE IV. - COUNTY MANAGER[6]

Footnotes:
--- (6) ---
Editor's note— Ord. No. 21-02 § 1, adopted March 9, 2021, changed the title of Art. IV from "County Administrator" to "County Manager," as herein set out.

Sec. 2-196. - Position created.
(a)
There is hereby created the office of county manager. The manager shall be appointed by a majority vote of the board of commissioners. In addition to the duties contained in this article, the manger shall assume all such other duties as assigned by the board from time to time and as contained in any job description for the position as may be adopted by the board and as same may be amended.
(b)
There is further created the position of assistant county manager. The assistant county manager shall be appointed by the county manager and shall assume all such duties as assigned by the county manager and as may be contained in any job description for the position as may be adopted by the board and as same may be amended.
(Ord. No. 19-04 , § 2, 7-9-2019; Ord. No. 20-03 § 1, 11-10-2020; Ord. No. 21-02 § 1, 3-9-2021)
Sec. 2-197. - Qualifications.
The county manager shall be chosen by the board of commissioners solely upon the basis of executive and administrative qualifications with specific reference to actual experience in or knowledge of accepted practices in respect to the duties of the office as set forth in this division or as further defined by the board. No member of the board shall be appointed manager during the term of office for which he is elected.
(Ord. No. 19-04 , § 2, 7-9-2019; Ord. No. 20-03 § 1, 11-10-2020; Ord. No. 21-02 § 1, 3-9-2021)
Sec. 2-198. - Duties.
The board of commissioners shall be the executive entity of the county. It shall be the duty of the board to set overall executive policy and procedures for the county. The county manager shall be the chief administrative officer of the county and head of the administrative branch of county government. The manager shall be responsible to the board for the proper and efficient administration of all affairs of the county over which the manager has jurisdiction. It shall be the duty of the manager to:
(1)
Hire, supervise, direct, evaluate and terminate staff, processing employee concerns and problems, directing work, counseling, disciplining, and completing employee performance appraisals; appoint, suspend, discharge, or remove department managers.
(2)
Direct daily operations and activities of the county.
(3)
Enforce or assist in implementation of all ordinances, resolutions and orders of the board of commissioners.
(4)
Develop and review comprehensive and strategic plans to meet county goals and objectives.
(5)
Coordinate board of commissioners' meetings; prepare agendas for commission meetings; compile information for agenda items and make recommendations; record and prepare minutes of commission meetings.
(6)
Conduct official correspondence on behalf of the board of commissioners; serve as custodian of all commission records.
(7)
Consult with board of commissioners and elected/appointed officials as needed to review county activities, provide recommendations, resolve problems, and receive advice/direction.
(8)
Communicate with county departments, employees, state/federal government representatives, the public, the media, and other individuals as needed to coordinate activities, review status of work, exchange information, resolve problems, or give/receive advice/direction.
(9)
Consult with assigned staff to review work requirements, status, and problems; assist in interpreting laws and regulations; assist with complex or problem situations; provide direction, advice, and technical expertise.
(10)
Perform public relations functions with the news media and the public; provide information and education relating to county programs, plans and policies; give speeches and presentations.
(11)
Prepare proposed county budgets; review and enforce compliance with budget.
(12)
Direct all financial and accounting functions, including payroll, accounts payable, accounts receivable, preparation of annual reports, and maintenance of records.
(13)
Assist with the preparation of state and federal grants.
(14)
Serve as county purchasing agent; approve expenditures for purchasing.
(15)
Exercise responsibility for all county property.
(16)
Serve as county personnel officer; oversee all personnel-related matters.
(17)
Compile and/or monitor various administrative and/or statistical data pertaining to county operations; perform research as needed; make applicable calculations; identify and analyze trends; prepare or generate reports; maintain records.
(18)
Attend meetings; serve on committees as needed make speeches or presentations.
(19)
Maintain a comprehensive, current knowledge and awareness of applicable laws/regulations; maintain an awareness of new trends and advances in the profession; read professional literature; maintain professional affiliations; attend workshops and training sessions as appropriate.
(Ord. No. 19-04 , § 2, 7-9-2019; Ord. No. 20-03 § 1, 11-10-2020; Ord. No. 21-02 § 1, 3-9-2021)
Sec. 2-199. - Board of commissioners authorized to assign or modify responsibilities.
The board of commissioners shall have full authority to assign additional responsibilities to the manager or to restrict or modify the responsibilities previously assigned. The modifications in responsibilities as contemplated in this section may be established by the board by ordinance, written directives to the manager, modification of job descriptions or by such other method as may be determined by the board consistent with good management practices.
(Ord. No. 19-04 , § 2, 7-9-2019; Ord. No. 20-03 § 1, 11-10-2020; Ord. No. 21-02 § 1, 3-9-2021)
Sec. 2-200. - Term of office.
The county manager shall serve at the pleasure of the board of commissioners and may be terminated by majority vote of the board.
(Ord. No. 19-04 , § 2, 7-9-2019; Ord. No. 20-03 § 1, 11-10-2020; Ord. No. 21-02 § 1, 3-9-2021)
Sec. 2-201. - Bond required; amount.
The county manager shall be required to execute and deliver a good and sufficient bond payable to the county, such bond to be approved by the board of commissioners and conditioned upon the faithful performance of the duties of the manager. The amount of the bond shall be determined from time to time by the board and the cost of procurement of the bonds shall be the responsibility of the county. The bond shall be delivered to the board within five days of the manager assuming the duties of the office and shall be filed by the chairman of the board in the office of the clerk of the superior court of the county.
(Ord. No. 19-04 , § 2, 7-9-2019; Ord. No. 20-03 § 1, 11-10-2020; Ord. No. 21-02 § 1, 3-9-2021)
Sec. 2-202. - Compliance with all applicable laws, policies, etc.
All actions of the county manager shall be taken and performed consistent with and in compliance with all federal and state laws, local ordinances, and policies and directives as may be established by the board of commissioners.
(Ord. No. 19-04 , § 2, 7-9-2019; Ord. No. 20-03 § 1, 11-10-2020; Ord. No. 21-02 § 1, 3-9-2021)
