DIVISION 4. - WASTEWATER DISCHARGE PERMIT ELIGIBILITY

Sec. 82-270. - Wastewater survey.
When requested by the superintendent all industrial users must submit information on the nature and characteristics of their wastewater by completing a wastewater survey prior to commencing their discharge. The superintendent is authorized to prepare a form for this purpose and may periodically require industrial users to update the survey. Failure to complete this survey shall be reasonable grounds for terminating service to the industrial user and shall be considered a violation of the article. The survey must be completed and returned within 60 days after receiving the application.
(Ord. No. 18-2008, § 4(4.1), 10-13-08)
Sec. 82-271. - Wastewater discharge permit requirement.
(a)
The city shall identify significant industrial users and notify significant users of their status. It shall be unlawful for any significant industrial user to discharge wastewater into the city's POTW without first obtaining a wastewater discharge permit from the city manager. Any violation of the terms and conditions of a wastewater discharge permit shall be deemed a violation of this article and subjects the wastewater discharge permittee to the sanctions set out in divisions 10 through 12. Obtaining a wastewater discharge permit does not relieve a permittee of its obligation to comply with all federal and state pretreatment standards or requirements or with any other requirements of federal, state and local law.
(b)
The superintendent may require other industrial users, including liquid waste haulers, to obtain wastewater discharge permits as necessary to carry out the purpose of this article.
(Ord. No. 18-2008, § 4(4.2), 10-13-08)
Sec. 82-272. - Wastewater discharge permitting: existing connections.
Any significant industrial user required to obtain a wastewater discharge permit who was discharging wastewater into the POTW prior to the effective date of this article and who wishes to continue such discharge in the future, shall, within 30 days after said date, apply to the superintendent for a wastewater discharge permit in accordance with section 82-274, and shall not cause or allow discharges to the POTW to continue after 30 days of the effective date of this article except in accordance with a wastewater discharge permit issued by the superintendent.
(Ord. No. 18-2008, § 4(4.3), 10-13-08)
Sec. 82-273. - Wastewater discharge permitting new connections.
Any significant industrial user proposing to begin or recommence discharging industrial wastes into the POTW must obtain a wastewater discharge permit prior to the beginning or recommencing of such discharge. An application for this wastewater discharge permit must be filed at least 30 days prior to the date upon which any discharge will begin.
(Ord. No. 18-2008, § 4(4.4), 10-13-08)
Sec. 82-274. - Wastewater discharge permit application contents.
In order to be considered for a wastewater discharge permit, all industrial users required to have a wastewater discharge permit must submit the information required by subsection 82-320(b). The superintendent shall approve a form to be used as a permit application, in addition, the following information may be requested.
(a)
Description of activities, facilities, and plant processes on the premises, including a list of all raw materials and chemicals used or stored at the facility which are, or could accidentally or intentionally be, discharged to the pretreatment system.
(b)
Number and type of employees, hours of operation, and proposed or actual hours of operation.
(c)
Each product produced by type, amount, process or processes, and rate of production.
(d)
Type and amount of raw materials processed (average and maximum per day).
(e)
The site plans, floor plans, mechanical and plumbing plans, and details to show all sewers, floor drains, and appurtenances by size, location, and elevation, and all points of discharge.
(f)
Time and duration of the discharge.
(g)
Any other information as may be deemed necessary by the superintendent to evaluate the wastewater discharge permit application.
Incomplete or inaccurate applications will not be processed and will be returned to the industrial user for revision.
(Ord. No. 18-2008, § 4(4.5), 10-13-08)
Sec. 82-275. - Application signatories and certification.
All wastewater discharge permit applications and industrial user reports must contain the following certification statement and be signed by an authorized representative of the industrial user.
"I certify under penalty of law that this document and all attachments were prepared under my direction or supervision in accordance with a system designed to assure that qualified personnel properly gather and evaluate the information submitted. Based on my inquiry of the person or persons who manage the system, or those persons directly responsible for gathering the, information, the information submitted is to the best of my knowledge and belief, true, accurate, and complete. I am aware that there are significant penalties for submitting false information, including the possibility of fine and imprisonment for knowing violations."
(Ord. No. 18-2008, § 4(4.6), 10-13-08)
Sec. 82-276. - Wastewater discharge permit decisions.
The superintendent will evaluate the data furnished by the industrial user and may require additional information. Within 30 days of receipt of a complete wastewater discharge permit application, the superintendent will determine whether or not to issue a wastewater discharge permit. If no determination is made within this time period, the application will be deemed denied. The superintendent may deny any application for a wastewater discharge permit. The superintendent or his appointed representative may develop discharge limits and conditions for all users of the POTW.
(Ord. No. 18-2008, § 4(4.7), 10-13-08)
Secs. 82-277—82-299. - Reserved.
