Chapter 62 - PERSONNEL[1]
Footnotes:
--- (1) ---
Cross reference— Administration, ch. 2; courts, ch. 34.
State Law reference— City's power to define, regulate and alter the powers, duties, qualifications, compensation and tenure of all municipal officers, agents and employees, O.C.G.A. § 36-34-2(2); Fair Employment Practices Act of 1978, O.C.G.A. § 45-19-20 et seq.

ARTICLE I. - IN GENERAL

Secs. 62-1—62-10. - Reserved.
ARTICLE II. - PERSONNEL SYSTEM[2]

Footnotes:
--- (2) ---
Editor's note— Ord. No. 4,2010, §§ 1, 2, adopted Feb. 8, 2010, amended art. II in its entirety and enacted similar provisions as set out herein. The former art. II derived from Code 1969, §§ 16-31 through 16-36.

Sec. 62-11. - Policy adopted by reference.
(a)
The city hereby adopts the personnel policy attached to Ordinance No. 4,2010 as exhibit "A" as a part of the Code of Ordinances of the city. This ordinance is not generally amendatory to the Code, but may be placed as an appendix, or may be incorporated to by reference by the Codifiers as they might determine in their discretion, to properly codify and/or establish this policy on behalf of the city into the Code of the City of Cedartown.
(b)
It is intended that the personnel policy of the city should not contradict, nor in any way be in conflict with, any preemptive laws, regulations, statutes, or other legislation by any federal, state, or local government entity specifically governing matters contained in this policy. Further, it is contemplated that hereafter the policy will not be violative of future amendments, changes, or similar matters that might in any way be preempted by higher legislative authority, especially a federal or state enacted law, regulation, statute, or other legislation. As such, to the extent that any conflict does arise in interpretation, federal, state, and/or local specific ordinances or regulations shall govern, rather than the personnel policy adopted by the city. In the absence of any such conflict, the personnel policy shall control.
(Ord. No. 4,2010, §§ 1, 2, 2-8-10)
Secs. 62-12—62-30. - Reserved.
ARTICLE III. - SOCIAL SECURITY[3]

Footnotes:
--- (3) ---
State Law reference— Authority to maintain and modify retirement or pension systems, Ga. Const. art. 9, sec. 2, par. 3(a)(14); authority to establish retirement systems for municipal employees, O.C.G.A. § 36-34-2(4); authority of municipality to provide insurance, retirement and pension benefits, O.C.G.A. § 36-35-4; Georgia Municipal Employees Benefit System, O.C.G.A. § 47-5-1 et seq.; Public Retirement Standards Law, O.C.G.A. § 47-20-1 et seq.; Social Security coverage for employees of the state and political subdivisions of the state, O.C.G.A. § 47-18-1 et seq.

Sec. 62-31. - Old-age and survivors' insurance extended to city employees.
It is hereby declared to be the policy and purpose of the city to extend at the earliest date possible under the agreement entered into by the state and the Federal Social Security Administration, to the employees and officials thereof, and its instrumentalities, not excluded by law or by this article, the benefits of the system of old-age and survivors' insurance as authorized by the Federal Social Security Act, the State Enabling Act, and amendments thereto. In pursuance of this policy, and for that purpose, the city shall take such action as may be required by applicable state or federal laws or regulations.
(Code 1969, § 16-16)
Sec. 62-32. - Commission chairman authorized to execute agreement.
The chairman of the city commission is hereby authorized and directed to execute all necessary agreements and amendments thereto with the Employees' Retirement System of Georgia for coverage of employees and officials as provided for in section 62-31, to include any employees who are in positions covered by a public retirement system, in the manner by law provided.
(Code 1969, § 16-17)
Sec. 62-33. - Withholdings authorized; payment to state agency.
Withholdings from salaries or wages of employees and officials for the purpose provided for in section 62-31 are hereby authorized to be made in the amounts and at such times as may be required by applicable state or federal laws or regulations, and shall be paid over to the state agency.
(Code 1969, § 16-18)
Sec. 62-34. - City's contribution.
There shall be appropriated from general funds such amounts at such times as may be required by applicable state or federal law or regulations for employer's contributions, administrative expenses, and a guaranty fund to ensure that the state will not incur any debt or loss as a result of the agreement referred to in section 62-32. Such funds shall be paid over to the Employees' Retirement System of Georgia in accordance with regulations established by that agency.
(Code 1969, § 16-19)
Sec. 62-35. - Records and reports.
The city shall keep such records and make such reports pursuant to this article as may be required by applicable state or federal laws or regulations.
(Code 1969, § 16-20)
Sec. 62-36. - Unauthorized personnel excluded.
There is hereby excluded from this article any authority to make any agreement with respect to any position, or any employee or official not authorized to be covered by applicable state or federal laws or regulations.
(Code 1969, § 16-21)
Sec. 62-37. - Amendment to original plan and agreement with the Employees' Retirement System of Georgia.
(a)
The chairman of the city commission is hereby authorized and directed to execute an agreement amending the original plan and agreement with the Employees' Retirement System of Georgia providing for the release of social security escrow deposits.
(b)
The city agrees to abide by the rules and regulations of the Employees' Retirement System of Georgia, hereinafter called the state agency, in regard to collections from city employees and in making reports and payments to the state agency.
(c)
The city hereby pledges an amount which it would receive in state grant funds as security for assurance that it will make collections from its employees, submit required reports, and remit payments to the state agency as agreed to in its plan of coverage of employees for Social Security benefits. The city further agrees that if the amount of state grant funds which it is entitled to receive in a calendar year is less than its annual payment to the state agency, as may be determined by the state agency, then the city shall deposit in escrow, when so notified in writing by the state agency and in accordance with its rules and regulations, an amount which, when added to the city's state grant funds, would total an amount sufficient to meet its obligations of reporting and remitting collections to the state agency.
(Code 1969, § 16-22)
Secs. 62-38—62-40. - Reserved.
ARTICLE IV. - RETIREMENT SYSTEM

Sec. 62-41. - Retirement system of the city.
By previous ordinances, and contractual agreements with the Georgia Municipal Association, the city has implemented a retirement system for all employees of the city who are eligible to participate in the retirement program, according to the plan as amended. All participants, and any vested benefits to be received in case of retirement, or separation from the city, shall be governed by the terms, provisions and conditions of the plan in effect at the time of their retirement, and all of the latest amendments thereto.
(Ord. No. 7-1998, § I, 2-9-98)
Sec. 62-42. - Adoption of provisions by reference.
The ordinance establishing retirement benefits of the city adopted on the 2nd day of July, 1990, as amended, modified and revised is hereby codified in its entirety by reference, as though fully set forth herein. The retirement of all employees is contractually determined and governed by this retirement plan as revised. The original, latest revised version, shall remain on file with the clerk of the city, who is designated as the principal officer and plan administrator of the city for purposes of the administration of the retirement system of the city. All amendments to the plan shall be accomplished by ordinance. Decisions affecting general plan administration are vested within the authority of the city commission.
(Ord. No. 7-1998, § I, 2-9-98; Ord. No. 6,2010, § 1, 4-13-10)
