ARTICLE I. - IN GENERAL

Sec. 6-1. - Definitions.
The following words, terms and phrases, when used in this chapter, shall have the meanings ascribed to them in this section, except where the context clearly indicates a different meaning:
Alcohol means ethyl alcohol, hydrated oxide of ethyl alcohol or spirits of wine, from whatever source or by whatever process produced.
Alcoholic beverage shall be defined pursuant to O.C.G.A. § 3-1-2(2) and includes all alcohol, distilled spirits, beer, malt beverages, wine, or fortified wine as defined in this article.
Brewery shall mean any place where malt beverages are manufactured or brewed.
Brewpub shall mean any eating establishment in which beer or malt beverages are manufactured or brewed, subject to the barrel production limitation prescribed in O.C.G.A. § 3-5-36 for retail consumption.
Brown bag establishment shall mean any restaurant in which the owners or their agents knowingly allow patrons to bring in and consume the patrons' own alcoholic beverages.
City shall mean the city, its commission, agents, employees, designees, and other representatives.
Distilled spirits shall be defined pursuant to O.C.G.A. § 3-1-2(7) and includes any alcoholic beverage obtained by distillation or containing more than 21 percent alcohol by volume, including, but not limited to, all liquors and fortified wines.
Election day shall mean one hour before the polls open until one hour after the polls close on any day set aside for any general or special election for any city, county, state, and/or federal offices, referendum questions, or any other ballot questions.
Farm winery shall mean a domestic winery that is licensed as a farm winery by the state.
Fortified wine means any alcoholic beverage containing more than 21 percent alcohol by volume, made from fruits, berries, or grapes, either by natural fermentation or by natural fermentation with brandy added. The term includes, but is not limited to, brandy.
Hotel and/or motel means any building or structure kept, used, maintained, advertised and held out to the public to be a place where food is actually served and consumed and sleeping accommodations are offered for adequate pay to travelers and guests, whether transient, permanent or residential, and whether conducted in the same building or in separate buildings or structures used in connection therewith that are on the same premises and are a part of the hotel operations; and which:
(1)
Maintains 50 or more rooms used for the sleeping accommodations of such guests;
(2)
Maintains an adequate sanitary kitchen and dining room equipped to serve food as required therein;
(3)
Operates one or more public dining rooms (excluding banquet rooms) with a combined seating capacity of at least 30, where meals are regularly served to guests; provided that, consistent with the definition of "lounge" in this section, in no event shall the seating capacity of the lounge exceed that of such public dining rooms;
(4)
Employs sufficient personnel to serve food as required in this article; and
(5)
Derives at least as much gross income from the sale of such meals prepared, served, and consumed in the hotel as it does from its sale of alcoholic beverages.
Lounge means a separate room connected with, a part of and adjacent to a restaurant (as defined in this section) or located in a hotel (as defined in this section), provided that in no event shall the seating capacity of the lounge exceed that of its connected restaurant.
Malt beverage means any alcoholic beverage obtained by the fermentation of any infusion or decoction of barley, malt, hops, or any other similar product, or any combination of such products in water, containing not more than six percent alcohol by volume and including ale, porter, brown, stout, lager beer, small beer, and strong beer. The term does not include sake, known as Japanese rice wine.
Manufacturer shall mean any maker, producer, or bottler of an alcoholic beverage. "Manufacturer" also means:
(1)
In the case of malt beverages, any brewer; and
(2)
In the case of wine, any vintner.
Microbrewery shall mean any brewery designed to accommodate the processing of fewer than 15,000 barrels of beer or ale within any consecutive 12-month period.
Minor shall be defined pursuant to O.C.G.A. § 3-3-23, as currently enacted or hereafter amended.
Package means a bottle, can, keg, barrel, or other original consumer container.
Premises shall mean the space or area owned, leased and/or controlled by the licensee and used by him for the purpose of operating under the license; except that in the case of hotels and motels, "premises" shall include only the portion of the property where alcoholic beverages are sold. "Premises" is further defined as one physically identifiable place of business consisting of one room. or two or more contiguous rooms operating under the same trade name, where alcoholic beverages are sold. Any premises outlets (sic) which cannot be determined as one identifiable place of business shall require additional licenses regardless of such establishment having the same trade name, ownership, or management.
Residence shall mean the act or fact of living or regularly staying at or in some place for the discharge of a duty or the enjoyment of a benefit or the place where one actually lives as distinguished from his domicile or place of temporary sojourn.
Restaurant means any public place kept, used, maintained, advertised and held out to the public as a place where meals are actually and regularly served, without sleeping accommodations, which:
(1)
Maintains an adequate and sanitary kitchen and dining room equipment to serve food as required in this article.
(2)
Provides a regular seating capacity for at least 30 persons; provided, that consistent with the definition of "lounge" in this section, in no event shall the seating capacity of the lounge exceed that of its connected restaurants.
(3)
Employs sufficient personnel to serve food as required in this section.
(4)
Serves at least one meal per day at least five days per week (with the exception of holidays, vacations and periods of renovations or redecorating).
(5)
Derives at least 50 percent of its gross income from the sale of such meals prepared, served and consumed on the premises. The city commission shall review the gross income figures from each establishment at the end of the third quarter of each calendar year and determine if the annual sales meet the required ratio. For restaurants in the C-1 downtown business district, said ratio shall be 40 percent of gross income from such meals.
(6)
Has obtained all necessary licenses, permits, or other governmental approval normally required of restaurants from any federal, state, or local agency.
Retail cigar shop shall mean a commercial establishment that sells full-sized, hand-rolled cigars, which derives at least 51 percent of its gross income from the sale of full-sized, hand-rolled cigars, pipe tobaccos, briar wood pipes, humidors, lighters, and cutters sold on the premises. The finance officer or his/her designee shall review the gross income figures from each such establishment, which shall provide such information at the end of the third quarter of each calendar year and at any other time requested to do so by the finance officer or his/her designee, for the purposes of determining whether the annual sales meet the required ratio and making appropriate recommendations to the city commission.
Retail dealer shall mean any person who sells distilled spirits in unbroken packages at retail only to consumers and not for resale. Retail dealer shall be synonymous with "package sale license holder."
Wholesaler or wholesale dealer means any person who sells alcoholic beverages to other wholesale dealers, to retail dealers, or to retail consumption dealers.
Wine means any alcoholic beverage containing not more than 21 percent alcohol by volume made from fruits, berries, or grapes either by natural fermentation or by natural fermentation with brandy added. The term includes, but is not limited to, all sparkling wines, champagnes, combinations of such beverages, vermouths, special natural wines, rectified wines, and like products. The term does not include cooking wine mixed with salt or other ingredients so as to render it unfit for human consumption as a beverage. A liquid shall first be deemed to be a wine at that point in the manufacturing process when it conforms to the definition of wine contained in this section.
(Ord. No. 3-2003, § 1, 8-11-03; Ord. No. 8-2010, § 1, 6-14-10; Ord. No. 7-2017 , §§ 1, 2, 12-11-17; Ord. No. 4-2019 , § 1, 9-9-19)
Cross reference— Definitions generally, § 1-2.
State Law reference— Definitions, O.C.G.A. § 3-1-2.
Sec. 6-2. - Familiarity with chapter.
It shall be the duty of each licensee to maintain a copy of this chapter on the premises, and to instruct each employee as to the terms thereof; and each licensee and employee shall at all times be familiar with this chapter.
Sec. 6-3. - Responsibility for acts of employees and others.
Licensees are charged with the responsibility for compliance with this chapter by their officers, agents, servants and employees. Licensees are responsible and shall be subject to license probation, suspension, or revocation for any violations accruing upon the licensed premises by any officer, agent, servant, or employee.
Sec. 6-4. - Removal of beverages prohibited.
(a)
All alcoholic beverages sold by consumption on the premises licensees shall be consumed only on the licensed premises. It shall be unlawful for any person to remove from the licensed premises any alcoholic beverages sold for consumption on the premises. Each licensee shall be responsible for ensuring that no person so removes any alcoholic beverages from the premises in any type of container.
(b)
Each consumption on the premises licensee shall post in a prominent place at each exit from the licensed premises a sign in substantially the following form:
"It is a violation of city Ordinance to take any type alcoholic beverage from this outlet."
Such sign shall be uniform letters not less than one inch in height.
(c)
It shall be unlawful for any person to drink or have in his possession an open container of any alcoholic beverage:
(1)
On any public street, sidewalk, park or other public place within the city, or upon or within any motor vehicle on the streets, sidewalks, parks and public places of the city unless said person is at or on the premises of an establishment with a license issued pursuant to this article; or
(2)
While on private property, open to public view, without the express permission of the owner, agent or person in lawful possession thereof.
(Ord. No. 3-2003, § 3, 8-11-03)
Sec. 6-5. - Purchase by or sales to underage persons prohibited.
(a)
No holder of any alcoholic beverage license or his agents, employees, or representatives shall knowingly furnish, sell, or offer for sale any alcoholic beverages to a person under 21 years of age. This prohibition shall not apply with respect to the sale of alcoholic beverages to a person when such person has furnished proper identification showing that the person to whom the alcoholic beverages are being sold is 21 years of age or older. In this subsection, "proper identification" means any document issued by a governmental agency containing a description of the person, such person's photograph or both, and giving such person's date of birth, including, but not limited to, a passport, military identification card, driver's license, or identification card authorized under an act to require the state department of public safety to issue identification cards to handicapped persons who do not have a motor vehicle driver's license. "Proper identification" does not include a birth certificate.
(b)
Subsection (a) shall not apply to the following:
(1)
Whenever alcoholic beverages are purchased for medical purposes pursuant to a prescription of a physician duly authorized to practice medicine in the state;
(2)
Whenever alcoholic beverages are purchased for consumption at a religious ceremony.
(c)
All licensees shall post in the most conspicuous place in their establishments a sign printed in letters at least four inches high reading as follows:
"SALE OF ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES TO MINORS STRICTLY PROHIBITED."
(d)
It shall be unlawful for any minor to falsely misrepresent his age in any manner whatsoever. It shall be unlawful for any minor to drink or possess any alcoholic beverages, except as stated in subsection (a) of this section, or except as provided in O.C.G.A. § 3-3-23.
(e)
The municipal court, in accordance with O.C.G.A. § 36-32-10, is granted jurisdiction to try and dispose of a first offense violation of O.C.G.A. § 3-3-23, relating to furnishing alcoholic beverages to, and purchase and possession of alcoholic beverages by, a person under 21 years of age, if the offense occurred within the corporate limits of the city. O.C.G.A. § 36-32-10 is incorporated herein by reference.
(Ord. No. 14-1999, § 1, 10-11-99; Ord. No. 3-2003, § 3, 8-11-03)
Sec. 6-6. - On-premises consumption during certain hours prohibited.
All licensees under this chapter shall adhere to the prohibited hours of operation as set forth in sections 6-104, 6-132, and 6-319 of this Code.
(Ord. No. 14-1999, § 2, 10-11-99; Ord. No. 2-2004, § 1, 2-9-04)
Secs. 6-7—6-30. - Reserved.
