Chapter 66 - SOLID WASTE[1]
Footnotes:
--- (1) ---
Cross reference— Buildings and building regulations, ch. 18; businesses, ch. 22; environment, ch. 38; health and sanitation, ch. 50; streets, sidewalks and other public places, ch. 70; utilities, ch. 82.
State Law reference— Authorization to provide garbage and solid waste collection and disposal, Ga. Const. art. 9, sec. 2, par. 3; Georgia Comprehensive Solid Waste Management Act, O.C.G.A. § 12-8-20 et seq.; local and regional solid waste plans, O.C.G.A. § 12-8-31.1; scrap tire disposal restrictions, O.C.G.A. § 12-8-40.1; Georgia Hazardous Waste Management Act, O.C.G.A. § 12-8-60 et seq.; Litter Control Law, O.C.G.A. § 16-7-40; transporting garbage or waste across state or county boundaries without permission, O.C.G.A. § 36-1-16; Resource Recovery Development Authorities Law, O.C.G.A. § 36-63-1 et seq.; littering highways, O.C.G.A. § 40-6-249.

ARTICLE I. - IN GENERAL

Secs. 66-1—66-30. - Reserved.
ARTICLE II. - COLLECTION AND DISPOSAL

Sec. 66-31. - Definitions.
The following words, terms and phrases, when used in this article, shall have the meanings ascribed to them in this section, except where the context clearly indicates a different meaning:
Carts means mobile devices with wheels which are used to store garbage and which can be rolled to the edge of the street for mechanized emptying into authorized garbage trucks.
City garbage or trash trucks means any vehicles owned or used by the city, either itself or through an independent contractor, for the collection of garbage or trash within the city.
Commercial cart means the authorized cart device used by any commercial business or other business establishment in lieu of a dumpmaster container.
Dumpmaster container means a stationary (nonmobile) containerized unit for holding substantial amounts of garbage, trash and other debris which is emptied by means of picking the container up and over the top of a garbage truck and emptying the contents thereof.
Garbage means domestic waste composed of meat, vegetable and fruit scraps, cans, bottles, paper, cardboard, rags, ashes and other such waste matter normally to be disposed of from residences, churches, schools, small business establishments and similar places. Animal, fowl and fish entrails, bones and carcasses, whether in whole or in part, from business establishments such as slaughterhouses and meat and fish markets shall not be considered as garbage but as other waste.
Industrial wastes means all waste byproducts of manufacturing, wholesale establishments, warehouses and similar businesses.
Landfill means any tract of land designated by the city as a site for disposal of garbage, trash and other wastes.
Landfill user fees means a rate of charge assessed for solid waste disposal at a designated landfill, which may also be referred to as tipping fees.
Lift charge means the rate of charge made each time a garbage truck raises or lifts a dumpmaster container for purposes of emptying the contents thereof.
Other wastes means animal, fowl and fish excrement, entrails, bones, carcasses in whole or in part and small dead animals.
Public works director means the public works director or official in charge of health and sanitation or his authorized representative.
Residential unit means each separate residence address, apartment residence or other dwelling occupied by residents of the city to which garbage service is available.
Scavenger means any person who salvages or collects, for resale or use, any garbage, paper, cardboard, boxes, crates or other wastes which are being or are to be disposed of from any residence or establishment where people reside, congregate or are employed.
Trash means garden and yard wastes such as weeds, grass and hedge trimmings, leaves, brush, tree limbs, garden plants and similar items.
(Code 1969, § 11-59)
Cross reference— Definitions generally, § 1-2.
Sec. 66-32. - Penalty.
Every person who is convicted in the municipal court of the city of a violation of this article shall be punished as provided in section 1-13.
(Code 1969, § 11-71)
Sec. 66-33. - Cart method of collection, pickup.
(a)
Residential garbage will be picked up one time per week from the curb or roadside area adjacent to the front of property of any resident within the city or at such other place as might be designated by the city manager so as to accomplish the efficient collection of garbage within the city. Containers for residential pickup service shall be by carts furnished by the city or its garbage contractor. All residents of the city shall use these designated carts in the storage and disposal of residential garbage. It shall be unlawful for any person to use any other device or method of disposal of garbage except by the cart method authorized by the city.
(b)
A schedule of residential cart pickups by the city shall be published and adhered to by all residents to ensure the proper collection and disposal of garbage within the city. Any person who is unable to physically transport the cart from a storage area near the residence to the designated area adjacent to the street for purposes of collection shall obtain a written certificate from that person's treating physician. This certificate shall indicate the person's inability to perform the function of transporting the cart to the area adjacent to the street for pickup. Upon a duly verified physician's certificate having been approved by the city manager, disabled persons' carts shall be picked up adjacent to the residence by the city or its authorized agents.
(c)
Garbage carts shall be placed adjacent to a street at the front or side of property for garbage collection, or any other suitable location accessible for pickup authorized by the code enforcement officer. Cart containers shall be placed by 4:00 a.m. of the pickup day unless otherwise directed or exempted but not earlier than the previous evening of the published scheduled day of pickup. When emptied by the garbage collectors, containers shall be removed from the streets and walkway to the side or rear of the property or residence, or at a location designated by the code enforcement officer, on the same day of the pick up. For the purposes of this section, "exempted" shall mean carts that have been approved for removal by the contractor for residential customers certified as physically handicapped and unable to place and remove their cart.
(Code 1969, § 11-60; Ord. No. 12-2000, § 1, 10-9-00)
Sec. 66-34. - Container requirements; preparation, disposal of waste for collection.
(a)
Every residence or establishment where people reside, congregate or are employed, other than industrial establishments, shall provide sufficient garbage containers to accommodate a three-day accumulation of garbage. The containers shall be made of metal or sturdy, noncollapsible plastic with solid bottoms and close fitting covers, and shall be provided with handles or grips at the sides or other arrangement sufficient for the safe and convenient handling of the containers. In no case shall such garbage containers have a capacity of less than five gallons or more than 32 gallons nor shall any container be filled with garbage or other waste in excess of 100 pounds including the weight of the container, unless so authorized by the public works director. It shall be unlawful to place garbage for collection in a box, tub, crate or any other container except as specified in this article. Meat, fish, fowl, vegetable and fruit scraps shall be disposed of by placing the garbage in a plastic or other waterproof, sealed bag or container and placed in a proper garbage container.
(b)
Business establishments shall have all garbage placed in containers as specified in this section except that those business establishments with large quantities of cardboard shall break the cardboard down and place it in bundles tied securely in units of 100 pounds or less. No garbage shall be placed in any cardboard boxes for collection.
(Code 1969, § 11-61)
Sec. 66-35. - Placement of dumpmasters by city manager.
(a)
It shall be within the discretion of the city manager to cause to be placed at various locations in and around the commercial area of the city, dumpmaster containers for the purpose of receiving garbage, trash and other refuse.
(b)
It shall be within the discretion of the city manager to assign, guided by locations, environment and practical experience, the containers to parties, stores and retail businesses, to be used in lieu of the pickup service provided by the city.
(Code 1969, § 11-62)
Sec. 66-36. - Charges, fees.
(a)
Residential units. Upon and against all persons residing in or doing business in the city benefiting from such sanitary and health services as rendered by or through the city in making what is commonly referred to as garbage pickups, a sanitary and health service charge is hereby assessed and levied, as against the individual and the property to which service is rendered, a monthly charge for residential pickups as approved by the City of Cedartown Commission in the schedule of fees and charges. Such charge shall be for each residential unit as defined in section 66-31.
(b)
Commercial cart pickups. There is hereby further assessed and levied as a sanitary and health service charge, as against the individual and property to which service is rendered, a monthly charge for commercial cart pickups as approved by the City of Cedartown Commission in the schedule of fees and charges for commercial cart pickups within the city.
(c)
Applicability of sanitary and health service charge. This monthly charge shall apply in full to any part of a month in which service is rendered. Garbage pickups shall be made as are required in the efficient operation of rendering health and sanitary services for the city. Only one such charge shall be made monthly for each separate residential unit or place of business where garbage is being picked up by the city. This monthly service charge is hereby assessed and levied against the head of each housekeeping operation or the operator of any place of business within the city, and against the real property upon which the service is rendered.
(d)
Lift charge for dumpmaster containers. In addition to the basic residential or commercial rates of charge outlined in the preceding subsections of this section, there is hereby assessed and levied the following charge for commercial users within the city who use dumpmaster containers instead of commercial carts. The rate of charge shall be per lift, as defined in section 66-31, for each container, based on the size of the container shall be as approved by the City of Cedartown Commission in the schedule of fees and charges.
(e)
Determination of collection requirements. The number of lifts required of commercial establishments shall be determined by the city manager in his discretion, so as to keep the area surrounding the dumpmaster container in a safe and sanitary condition. The city manager shall further have the authority and discretion to determine the number, location and use of dumpmaster containers, commercial carts or other devices used for garbage collection.
(f)
Container rental charge for containers owned by contractor.
Containers owned by contractor. Certain dumpmaster containers within the city are rental units not owned by the city but owned by the independent garbage contractor presently doing business, as of the date of Ordinance No. 17-1988, within the city pursuant to an authorized contract for garbage collection. The minimum monthly prorated share that any user shall pay for these rental containers, and the rental charges assessed, shall be as approved by the City of Cedartown Commission in the schedule of fees and charges.
(g)
Landfill user fees. Upon and against all persons residing in or doing business in the city, except residential carts, disposing of solid waste in a designated landfill through the services provided by the city there is hereby assessed and levied landfill user charges, as against the individual and the property to which service is rendered by monthly charge as approved by the City of Cedartown Commission in the schedule of fees and charges. Further, user fees may include any other charges assessed against the city for trash disposal or other landfill use.
(h)
Fees cumulative. This section shall not be construed to abrogate any fee for garbage services heretofore assessed, but shall be cumulative and paid in addition thereto.
(i)
Placement of refuse in dumpmaster containers. No person using the dumpmaster container shall be allowed to place any wet refuse or garbage therein without first placing the wet refuse or garbage in a plastic or other waterproof bag or container. Business establishments with large quantities of cardboard shall break the cardboard down and place in bundles tied securely.
(j)
Placement of refuse on streets, alleys. It shall be unlawful for any party assigned to use any container to place garbage, trash or refuse along any street or alleyway in any manner except as provided in this article.
(k)
Delinquent charge. Delinquent charges shall apply to any garbage bill as approved by the City of Cedartown Commission in the schedule of fees and charges as fully as if such provisions were set out in this section.
(Code 1969, § 11-63; Ord. No. 7-2019 , § 2(Exh. A), 12-9-19)
Sec. 66-37. - Disposition, collection of trash.
(a)
Small amounts of trash, yard rakings and garden wastes may be sealed in plastic bags and be deposited in containers described in section 66-34 for collection on regular garbage collection days. Large amounts of trash shall be routinely collected by the city garbage and trash trucks or its independent contractor. Collections shall be at a time and in a manner prescribed by the public works director, provided that at no time shall trash be placed in such a manner as to obstruct gutters, drains, walkways or streets, and provided further that tree limbs and branches shall not exceed five feet in length or 50 pounds by weight in the units to be handled. No one residence or business shall place out for collection at any one time more than five cubic yards or 400 pounds of trash. If a residence or business establishment places out for collection at one time more than five cubic yards or 400 pounds of trash, the residence or business shall be assessed an additional fee for such service in the amount of the actual cost of equipment and labor. Trash shall be placed adjacent to a public street or alley easily accessible by the city trash trucks. Trash shall be deposited on the city right-of-way adjacent to the owner's or occupant's property and not on the property of any other person, firm or corporation without express written permission. All trash, yard raking, or similar waste shall be placed on the owner's or occupant's side of the right-of-way so that it shall not obstruct the normal flow of traffic, water runoff, or other public uses of the right-of-way.
(b)
The owner of property within the corporate limits of the city on which trees are cut down, whether by the owner or by another, is required following such cutting to promptly remove or have removed from the property at his own expense all tree trunks, logs, limbs, tops and other debris resulting therefrom, when such materials are clearly visible from any public street, alley, sidewalk, land or path or from the property of another that adjoins the property on which the materials are located. Such materials shall not be destroyed or removed by burning.
(c)
All firms, partnerships, proprietorships or corporations engaged in the business of trimming or removing trees, shrubbery or similar growth shall remove from the property where the work is being done all sawdust, branches, stumps and all portions of the byproduct of the trimming or removal service.
(d)
All firms, partnerships, proprietorships or corporations engaged in the business of yard maintenance, landscaping or nurserymen, who shall contract with the property owner, his agent or occupant to improve the property, trim or remove shrubbery and trees or maintain yards, shall remove from the property all rubbish, including rocks, dirt, glass, trimmings and other byproducts of that service.
(e)
It shall be unlawful for any firm, partnership, proprietorship or corporation to trim trees or brushes, do landscaping or yard work for compensation within the city unless the byproduct from those services is immediately removed from the premises and placed or deposited by the contractor in the city-designated landfill.
(f)
"Compensation" shall be interpreted to include receiving as compensation the wood, limbs and other residue from such trimming and cutting. Any form of compensation shall place the burden of disposal directly upon the individual or contractor performing the task.
(g)
Any owner, or occupant of residential property within the corporate limits of the city, may make a request by written work order to the street superintendent for the scheduled removal of rubbish, junk or inert materials by the city street department.
(h)
Upon request, the street department superintendent or his designated representative shall physically observe and inspect the item(s) to be removed to determine that no unauthorized or hazardous materials are present before approving the request.
(i)
If approved, the removal of items shall be scheduled at the discretion of the street department superintendent and a placard or other identifier shall be issued for authorization of removal by city personnel and payment of applicable fees.
(j)
The fee for removal of rubbish, junk or inert materials shall be included in the schedule of fees and charges as approved by the City of Cedartown Commission for every knuckle boom truck load or part thereof at the discretion of the public works director and/or his/her designee.
(k)
The City of Cedartown reserves the right of refusal for removal of any rubbish, junk or inert materials that will interfere with normal city services or deemed unacceptable by the local landfill.
(Code 1969, § 11-64; Ord. No. 15-2001, § 1, 8-13-01; Ord. No. 16-2012, § 2, 10-8-12; Ord. No. 7-2019 , § 2(Exh. A), 12-9-19)
Sec. 66-38. - Disposal of other wastes.
Other wastes as defined in this article shall be disposed of by placing the wastes in a plastic or other waterproof bag or container and placed in proper garbage containers or assigned dumpmasters for collection or taken to a designated landfill.
(Code 1969, § 11-65)
Sec. 66-39. - Unauthorized disposal of trash, garbage, other wastes.
It shall be unlawful to place garbage, trash, litter or other wastes for collection in a container owned by another person without the express consent or authorization of the owner or to place garbage, trash, litter or other wastes for collection in a dumpmaster assigned to another party, store or retail business without the express consent or authorization of the city manager.
(Code 1969, § 11-66)
Sec. 66-40. - Noncollectible garbage, trash, other wastes.
Notwithstanding anything to the contrary contained in this article, it is specifically required that every person who disposes of dead animals (except dogs, cats, fowl, fish or other small or similar animals), junk cars, dirt, rocks, cement, manufacturing byproducts, hazardous wastes, building material, equipment and machinery shall make such disposal at the city-designated landfill or such site as specified by the public works director. Such removal of the aforesaid shall be done within 24 hours after the matter has been abandoned or after the completion of the project undertaken. The city will not remove any household items where a resident is moving or relocating or has been evicted.
(Code 1969, § 11-67; Ord. No. 21-2008, 12-8-08)
Sec. 66-41. - Use of landfill.
(a)
Any person maintaining a place of residence or business within the limits of the city shall have the right to haul any garbage, trash or waste not picked up by the city trucks to the designated landfill.
(b)
Any person dumping trash at spots in or around the landfill other than those designated by the person in charge will be prosecuted as provided in section 1-13.
(c)
The hours of operation of the landfill will be designated by the public works director.
(Code 1969, § 11-68)
Sec. 66-42. - Scavengers.
(a)
It shall be unlawful for any person to operate as a scavenger within the city or land maintained by the city who does not possess a business license secured from the licensing authority of the city. The license shall be secured annually at the time other business licenses are issued or renewed, and the cost of the license shall be determined by the city commission.
(b)
Every scavenger shall conduct his operations in such a manner as not to hinder or interfere with garbage and trash collection and disposal by city garbage trucks. Trash, wastes and garbage shall not be scattered by the scavenger at the place of collection or upon any street, alley or walkway in the city, nor shall such trash, waste and garbage be left by the scavenger in such a condition that it may be scattered by other persons, animals or natural causes, and all scavenger trucks shall have a cover approved by the public works director.
(c)
Violations of these requirements shall be sufficient cause of immediate revocation of the scavenger license, and such revoked license shall not be reinstated or reissued for at least one year from the date of revocation.
(Code 1969, § 11-69)
Sec. 66-43. - Use of independent contractor.
The city commission, acting by and through its chairman, shall have authority to enter into any private contract for garbage and trash collection and disposal, under such terms and conditions as the commission shall deem reasonable and proper. Any person who contracts with the city for garbage and trash collection and disposal shall act as an independent contractor for the city pursuant to the terms and provisions of this article.
(Code 1969, § 11-70)
Sec. 66-44. - Reserved.
Editor's note— Ord. No. 1-2002, § 1, adopted January 14, 2002, repealed former § 66-44 which pertained to surcharge for landfill operational costs and derived from Ord. No. 2-1997, § 2, adopted March 10, 1997.
