ARTICLE I. - IN GENERAL

Sec. 22-1. - Tent shows, carnivals; special permit required.
It shall be unlawful for any person to operate or conduct a tent show or carnival within the city limits except upon special permission of the city commission.
(Code 1969, § 13-21)
State Law reference— Traveling motion picture shows, carnivals and circuses to obtain fire prevention regulatory license from state fire marshal, O.C.G.A. § 25-2-20.
Sec. 22-2. - Business user fees for municipal facilities and services.
The city manager, with the approval of the city commission, shall have the authority to establish fees, charges or rents as may be determined necessary and proper for the use of various business-related services, recreational activities or other use of city facilities. These fees are informally known as user fees and are approved by the City of Cedartown Commission in the schedule of fees and charges. The schedule of fees and charges is available for inspection during normal business hours of the City of Cedartown.
(Code 1969, § 13-27; Ord. No. 7-2019 , § 2(Exh. A), 12-9-19)
Sec. 22-3. - Yard, garage, and rummage sales defined; regulations; penalties for violations.
(a)
Yard, garage or rummage sales are defined as the displaying of wares, clothing, merchandise and goods for the purposes of sale or trade which are placed for sale by any person to the public on which the yard sale is to take place. Multiple yard sales shall be governed by this section and regulated as in subsection (c)(1).
(b)
No yard, garage, or rummage sales as defined herein shall be conducted without first applying for and obtaining a permit from the City of Cedartown. Any permit issued by the City of Cedartown must be prominently displayed or at least available for inspection by city officials during the sale. The application for such a permit shall, at a minimum, include the following information:
(1)
The person, firm, or entity who is conducting the sale;
(2)
The location of the sale;
(3)
The proposed date and time of the sale;
(4)
The expected duration of the sale;
(5)
A general description of the items to be included in the sale;
(6)
Any other information that the city deems necessary or appropriate in reviewing the application.
(c)
Yard sales are regulated as follows:
(1)
Two yard, garage or rummage sales are allowed per year per person and/or location, on a calendar year basis and on residential property only. Yard sales shall consist of not more than two consecutive days. Yard sales may only be held on Friday and Saturday. Evidence of sale must be removed by the following Monday of permitted event.
(2)
Special exceptions may be considered for local or regional events upon prior written approval by the city manager or his/her designee.
(3)
Churches and synagogues are allowed to hold yard, rummage or garage sales on church owned and operated property without restrictions to number per year.
(4)
Any person convicted of violation of this section shall be punished as provided in section 1-13 of the City Code.
(Code 1969, § 13-28; Ord. No. 18-1998, § 1, 5-11-98; Ord. No. 3-2012, § 1, 4-9-12; Ord. No. 4-2015, § 1, 7-13-15)
Sec. 22-4. - No fee for veterans.
Veterans of wars who are entitled under the laws of the state to carry on or engage in any trade, business, vocation, calling or profession, without paying any license fee, charge or tax, shall before commencing such trade, business, vocation, calling or profession exhibit his veteran's license or certificate to the city clerk and shall be required to register as required under this chapter and receive from the city through the clerk a no fee veteran's license, and no charge whatever shall be made for such registration or license. The person must be a local resident of the city.
(Code 1969, § 13-9)
Sec. 22-5. - Farmer selling own products exempt.
The legal right of the farmer and producer to sell the products of his own farm, orchard, dairy, poultry yard, etc., is recognized, but any other person in the corporate limits of the city offering for sale such articles as eggs, chickens, butter, milk, fruits, vegetables, coffee, tea, spices, soaps, washing powders or other groceries, or any other articles not specifically covered in the provisions of this chapter relating to occupation taxes as set forth in section 22-21 et seq., shall be deemed a peddler and every such peddler selling directly to the consumer, even though the delivery may be on orders previously taken, shall be required to purchase a peddler's license from the city. No peddler's license is required from any bona fide farmer who is selling the products of his own farm, orchard, dairy, poultry yard, etc.
(Code 1969, § 13-10)
State Law reference— Establishment of roadside market incentive program, O.C.G.A. § 2-10-130 et seq.; exception for persons selling agricultural products, O.C.G.A. § 43-32-6; exemption from municipal taxation of agricultural products and livestock raised in state, O.C.G.A. § 48-5-356.
Sec. 22-6. - Subcontractor's license; responsibility of prime contractor.
Any contractor engaged in the construction, alteration or repair of buildings or in the installation of equipment or fixtures in connection with such construction, and who has subcontractors working under him in accordance with a portion of the work, shall be responsible to see that every such subcontractor has a current city license permit before he allows such subcontractor to begin any portion of the subcontracting work. Upon the failure of the general contractor to require each subcontractor to purchase and pay for any current license permit, the general contractor shall be responsible for and be required to pay to the city the amount of any such subcontractor's license tax as set forth in the provisions of this chapter relating to occupation taxes as set forth in section 22-21 et seq.
(Code 1969, § 13-11)
State Law reference— Electrical contractors, plumbers, conditioned air contractors, low-voltage contractors, and utility contractors, O.C.G.A. § 43-14-1 et seq.
Sec. 22-7. - Sidewalk sales and displays regulated.
No retail business sales shall be permitted upon any streets, sidewalks, or public alleys within the city except by a permit granted by the city manager permitting such use; except any sales accomplished pursuant to an activity approved by the Downtown Cedartown Association, the city commission or the city manager shall be considered a "permitted use" pursuant to this section. Any person denied the right to conduct such sales shall have the right to appeal the decision of the city manager to the city commission.
(Code 1969, § 13-16)
Sec. 22-8. - Sale of used motor vehicles upon real property in the city.
(a)
An owner or lessee of any real property shall not authorize more than five used motor vehicles within any 12 months, to be displayed or parked on such real property; nor more than two used vehicles at the same time to be so displayed or parked, for the purpose of selling or advertising for sale such used motor vehicles by the owner or lessee of such vehicles.
(b)
An owner or lessee of any used motor vehicle shall not display or park such used motor vehicles on the real property of another for the purpose of selling or advertizing as set forth in this section, in a manner that violates subsection (a). Nor shall any such motor vehicle be placed on the property of another, unless the owner or lessee of such vehicle has the prior permission of the owner or lessee of the real property.
(c)
These prohibitions concerning the sale of used motor vehicles shall not apply under the following circumstances:
(1)
If the owner or lessee of the vehicle displayed or parked is employed by the owner or lessee of the real property, and is on the property accomplishing any work, task or other function upon said property, and is not there for the purpose of displaying or parking a motor vehicle upon the property for sale;
(2)
If the owner or lessee of the vehicle displayed or parked is conducting business with the owner or lessee of the real property; or
(3)
If the real property on which the vehicle is displayed or parked is a parking lot for which a fee is charged for the use of said parking lot, and the owner or lessee of the vehicle displayed or parked has paid the fee for the use of said parking lot.
(d)
No owner or lessee of any real property shall authorize any used motor vehicle to be displayed or parked upon the property for purposes of selling or advertising the motor vehicle for sale, if the vehicle is not lawfully titled and registered in the name of the individual or entity offering such vehicle for sale, in accordance with the provisions of Georgia law.
(e)
No person shall advertise, display, sell, or offer for sale any used motor vehicle unless such vehicle is lawfully titled and registered in such person's name, in accordance with Georgia law. Any law enforcement officer, the building inspector, or other person authorized by Georgia law, or the owner or lessee of any real property upon which a vehicle is displayed or parked in violation of this Code section for longer than 24 consecutive hours, may have any such vehicle towed from the real property and stored at the expense of the owner or lessee of the vehicle. Further, the vehicle may then be disposed of, provided that the disposition is in accordance with the provisions of O.C.G.A. tit. 40, ch. 11, relating the disposition of abandoned motor vehicles.
(f)
A violation of this Code section shall constitute an unfair or deceptive act or practice and shall likewise be a violation of state law, under the present provisions of O.C.G.A. tit. 10, ch. 1, art. 15, pt. 2 known as the "Fair Business Practices Act of 1975."
(g)
Any person who violates any provisions of this section shall be deemed to be a licensee for purposes of imposing any sanctions and penalties which might be applicable under Georgia law. Such violations may also carry any sanction or imposition of a penalty as contained in the general penalties section of this Code.
(Ord. No. 1-1999, § 2, 3-8-99)
Sec. 22-9. - Exemptions to section 22-8.
Code section 22-8 shall not apply to any person licensed under state law, or to any franchised motor vehicle dealer, or any subsidiary wholly owned or controlled by such dealer. Further, nothing contained in this Code section shall eliminate or change the requirement for any person to obtain a license under this chapter, if such person engages in any conduct or activity for which a license is required under this Code, and a separate license under any applicable provisions of the laws of the State of Georgia.
(Ord. No. 1-1999, § 3, 3-8-99)
Sec. 22-10. - Outside storage of new or used tires prohibited.
All business within the corporate limits of the city shall be prohibited from storing new or used tires on the exterior of any structure on their property or leaving said tires uncovered so as to permit the accumulation or collection of standing water in the tires, as prohibited by section 50-101 of this Code. It is the purpose and intent of this section to keep the tires from being potential breeding grounds for mosquitoes and other disease carrying insects. Any business owner who violates the provisions of this Code section shall be subject to the general penalties provisions contained in section 1-13 of this Code.
(Ord. No. 8-2003, § 2, 10-13-03)
Sec. 22-11. - Drug-related objects and drug paraphernalia prohibited.
(a)
No holder of any license issued under this chapter shall sell, offer for sale, display, lend, rent, lease, give, exchange, keep in stock, possess with intent to sell, or otherwise distribute to any person, at any place of business licensed hereunder any of the following products:
(1)
Any "drug-related object" as defined by O.C.G.A. § 16-13-32(a)(1), or any instrument, device, or object which is designed or marketed as useful primarily for one or more of the following purposes:
a.
To inject, ingest, inhale, or otherwise introduce marijuana or a controlled substance into the human body;
b.
To enhance the effect of marijuana or a controlled substance on the human body;
c.
To test the strength, effectiveness, or purity of marijuana or a controlled substance;
d.
To process or prepare marijuana or a controlled substance for introduction into the human body;
e.
To conceal any quantity of marijuana or a controlled substance; or
f.
To contain or hold marijuana or a controlled substance while it is being introduced into the human body.
(2)
Any "drug paraphernalia" which shall include, but not be limited to, objects used or intended for use in ingesting, inhaling, or otherwise introducing marijuana or any controlled substance into the human body, such as:
a.
Metal, wooden, acrylic, glass, stone, plastic, or ceramic pipes with or without screens, permanent screens, hashish heads, or punctured metal bowls;
b.
Water pipes;
c.
Carburetion tubes and devices;
d.
Smoking and carburetion masks;
e.
Roach clips, which shall mean any object used to hold burning material, such as, but not limited to, a marijuana cigarette, that has become too small or too short to be held in the hand;
f.
Miniature cocaine spoons and cocaine vials;
g.
Chamber pipes;
h.
Carburetor pipes;
i.
Electric pipes;
j.
Air-driven pipes;
k.
Chillums;
l.
Bongs; and
m.
Ice pipes or chillers.
(b)
In determining whether an item constitutes a drug-related object or drug paraphernalia, in addition to all other logically relevant factors, the city commission may also consider the following factors:
(1)
Statements by an owner or anyone in control of the object or materials;
(2)
Instructions provided with the object or materials;
(3)
Descriptive materials accompanying the object or materials;
(4)
National and local advertising or promotional materials concerning the object or materials;
(5)
The appearance of, and any writing or other representations appearing on, the object or materials;
(6)
The manner in which the object or materials are displayed for sale or other distribution;
(7)
Expert testimony concerning the object or materials;
(8)
Any written or pictorial materials which are present in the location where the object or materials may be found; and
(9)
The existence and scope of legitimate uses of the object or materials in the community.
(c)
Any holder of a license who violates the provisions of this section shall be subject to the license suspension and/or revocation procedures outlined in this chapter.
(Ord. No. 11,2010, § 2, 7-12-10)
Secs. 22-12—22-20. - Reserved.
