DIVISION 3. - PRETREATMENT OF WASTEWATER

Sec. 82-250. - Pretreatment facilities.
Industrial users shall provide necessary wastewater treatment as required to comply with this article and shall achieve compliance with all categorical pretreatment standards, local limits and the prohibitions set out in section 82-225 above within the time limitations specified by the EPA, the state, or the city manager, whichever is more stringent. Any facilities required to pretreat wastewater to a level acceptable to the city manager shall be provided, operated, and maintained at the industrial user's expense. Detailed plans showing the pretreatment facilities and operating procedures shall be submitted to the city manager for review, and shall be acceptable to the city manager before construction of the facility. The review of such plans and operating procedures will in no way relieve the industrial user from the responsibility of modifying the facility as necessary to produce an acceptable discharge to the city under the provisions of this article.
(Ord. No. 18-2008, § 3(3.1), 10-13-08)
Sec. 82-251. - Additional pretreatment measures.
(a)
Whenever deemed necessary, the city manager may require industrial users to restrict their discharge during peak flow periods, designate that certain wastewater be discharged only into specific sewers, relocate and/or consolidate points of discharge, separate sewage wastestreams from industrial wastestreams, and such other conditions as may be necessary to protect the POTW and determine the industrial user's compliance with the requirements of this article.
(b)
Grease, oil and sand interceptors shall be provided when, in the opinion of the superintendent, they are necessary for the proper handling of wastewater containing excessive amounts of grease and oil or sand; except that such interceptors shall not be required for residential users. All interception units shall be of type and capacity approved by the superintendent and shall be so located to be easily accessible for cleaning and inspection. Such interceptors shall be inspected, cleaned, and repaired regularly, as needed, by the owner at his expense.
(c)
Industrial users with the potential to discharge flammable substances may be required to install and maintain an approved combustible gas detection meter.
(Ord. No. 18-2008, § 3(3.2), 10-13-08)
Sec. 82-252. - Accidental discharge/slug control plans.
Any accidental or deliberate discharge of substances prohibited in section 82-225 is considered a slug and must be reported immediately to the superintendent. A written report of the incident must be sent to the superintendent within five days of the occurrence. The report must include the following information:
(1)
The name of company;
(2)
Date and time of the occurrence;
(3)
Identity of the substance discharged;
(4)
Amount of discharge;
(5)
Brief explanation of what caused the discharge;
(6)
Plans to prevent a reoccurrence.
The superintendent may require any industrial user to develop and implement an accidental discharge/slug control plan. At least once every two years the superintendent shall evaluate whether each significant industrial user needs such a plan. Any industrial user required to develop and implement an accidental discharge/control slug plan shall submit a plan which addresses, at a minimum, the following:
(a)
Description of discharge practices, including nonroutine batch discharges.
(b)
Description of stored chemicals.
(c)
Procedures for immediately notifying the POTW of any accidental or slug discharge. Such notification must also be given for any discharge which would violate any of the prohibited discharges in section 82-225.
(d)
Procedures to prevent adverse impact from any accidental or slug discharge. Such procedures include, but are not limited to, inspection and maintenance of storage areas, handling and transfer of materials, loading and unloading operations, control of plant site runoff, worker training, building of containment structures or equipment, measures for containing toxic organic pollutants (including solvents), and/or measures and equipment for emergency response.
(Ord. No. 18-2008, § 3(3.3), 10-13-08)
Sec. 82-253. - Tenant responsibility.
Where an owner of property leases premises to any other person as a tenant under any rental or lease agreement, if either the owner or the tenant is an industrial user, either or both may be held responsible for compliance with the provisions of this article.
(Ord. No. 18-2008, § 3(3.4), 10-13-08)
Sec. 82-254. - Hauled wastewater.
(a)
Septic tank waste may be accepted into the POTW at a designated receiving structure within the treatment plant area, and at such times as are established by the superintendent, provided such wastes do not violate division 2 or any other requirements established or adopted by the city. Wastewater discharge permits for individual vehicles to use such facilities may be issued by the superintendent.
(b)
The discharge of hauled industrial wastes as "industrial septage" requires prior approval and a wastewater discharge permit from the city. The city manager shall have authority to prohibit the disposal of such wastes, if such disposal would interfere with the treatment plant operation. Waste haulers are subject to all other sections of this article.
(c)
It shall be unlawful to empty, dump, throw or otherwise discharge into any manhole, catch basin or other opening into city water pollution control facilities, or any sewer connected with and discharging into the collection facilities, the contents of any septic tank or chemical toilet, sludge, wastewater or other similar matter or material, except as provided in subsection (b) hereof.
(d)
The applicant shall be the owner of the vehicle discharging such wastes. Any false, misleading or untruthful statements as to the nature of material discharged shall be cause for rejection of any further discharge from the applicant and revocation of permit. Discharges may also be suspended or terminated at any time by the superintendent for willful, continued or persistent violations of these rules and regulations or upon such grounds as the city may deem proper and consistent with this Code.
(e)
All equipment (trucks, tanks, pumps and hoses used in the collection and/or transportation of septic tank wastes) shall be modern operable equipment in good condition and state of repair. When more than one vehicle is used by an applicant, each vehicle shall bear an identifying number.
(f)
Fees for dumping septage will be established as part of the industrial user fee system as authorized in division 15.
(Ord. No. 18-2008, § 3(3.5), 10-13-08)
Sec. 82-255. - Vandalism.
No person shall maliciously, willfully, or negligently; break, damage, destroy, uncover, deface, tamper with or prevent access to any structure, appurtenance or equipment, or other part of the POTW. Any person found in violation of this requirement shall be subject to the sanctions set out in divisions 10 through 12, below.
(Ord. No. 18-2008, § 3(3.6), 10-13-08)
Secs. 82-256—82-269. - Reserved.
