ARTICLE VII. - FRANCHISES[7]

Footnotes:
--- (7) ---
State Law reference— Power to grant franchises or make contracts with public utilities, O.C.G.A. § 36-34-2(7); limitation on action expanding the power of regulation over any business activity regulated by the Public Service Commission, O.C.G.A. § 36-35-6(5).

Sec. 22-171. - Definitions.
The following words, terms and phrases, when used in this article, shall have the meanings ascribed to them in this section, except where the context clearly indicates a different meaning:
Cable and/or video franchise fee. The city hereby requires a franchise fee of five percent of gross revenues generated within the city for any cable or video state franchise issued in its corporate boundaries by the state. In the event the state-authorized fee increases above five percent, then the city shall be entitled to charge the highest fee allowable by federal and/or state law.
Fees means the costs incurred by the city in the process of awarding, renewing, enforcing, reviewing, and/or terminating a franchisee's service agreement for, but not limited to, payment of bonds, security funds, letters of credit, insurance, indemnification, penalties, or liquidated damages, the costs of attorneys, consultants, experts, outside counsel and certain government costs without any deduction from other permissible fees, taxes, charges and/or assessments the city has previously and lawfully entered into with the franchisee. In addition, "fees" includes the costs incurred by the city to initiate, engage or otherwise direct outside contractors to remove, demolish and/or salvage any equipment or facilities owned or used or formerly owned or used by a franchisee.
Franchisee means a business or service engaged in regularly supplying the public with electric, gas, water, transportation, telephone or telegraph service, television service, entertainment or any other business or service requiring the city to issue a franchise, in order to allow such business to conduct operations.
(Code 1969, §§ 10½-21, 10½-22; Ord. No. 1-2008, § 1, 1-14-08)
Cross reference— Definitions generally, § 1-2.
Sec. 22-172. - Franchisee reimbursement of city expenses.
(a)
It shall be the responsibility of the franchisee to reimburse the city for all costs and expenses incurred by the city incidental to the award, enforcement, renewal and/or termination of the franchisee's service agreement and the removal, demolition or salvage of the franchisee's equipment within the corporate limits of the city.
(b)
At any time the city is impelled to incur expenses in the administration of the terms of this article, such expenses shall be billed to the owner and owner shall pay the city the amount billed 30 days from the date of invoice.
(Code 1969, § 10½-23)
Sec. 22-173. - Equipment removal, demolition or salvage; submission of plan; examination, approval.
A written plan for the removal, demolition or salvage of any equipment or facilities owned or used or formerly owned or used by a franchisee shall prior to any removal, demolition or salvage be presented to the city for examination and approval. The written plan shall contain the following:
(1)
The name and address of the owner of the facilities and equipment to be removed, demolished or salvaged.
(2)
An itemized list of all facilities and equipment which the owner intends to have removed, demolished or salvaged.
(3)
The owner's designated on-site representative.
(4)
The name and address of all employees of the owner to be engaged in the work.
(5)
The name and address of all independent contractors which the owner intends to employ.
(6)
The name and address of all employees of any independent contractor which the owner intends to employ.
(7)
A list of major equipment to be used either by the owner or its independent contractors, for example, trucks, tractors, forklifts or other heavy machinery.
(8)
A proposed daily schedule of work to be done which shall include the following:
a.
Location of work to be done.
b.
Personnel involved in the work to be done by location.
c.
Facilities and equipment to be removed, demolished or salvaged.
(9)
No work shall proceed except in accordance with the aforementioned written plan of removal, demolition or salvage except that minor variations may be made with the permission of the city's on-site representative.
(Code 1969, § 10½-24)
Sec. 22-174. - Modification and finalization of plan.
(a)
The written plan of removal, demolition or salvage may be changed in any reasonable manner at any time by the owner of the facility and equipment subject only to the city's approval prior to work proceeding in accordance with the modified plan.
(b)
Finalization of the proposed daily work schedule must be made in writing and submitted to the city no later than 4:30 p.m. prior to the next working day. The daily work schedule may be reasonably modified at any time during a particular day by notifying the city's on-site representative of the change in work scheduling.
(Code 1969, § 10½-25)
Sec. 22-175. - Proof of financial responsibility.
No work shall begin by the owner or the person responsible for the removal, demolition or salvage until there has been filed with the city proof of ability of the person responsible for removal, demolition or salvage to respond in damages for liability on account of accidents arising out of the removal, demolition or salvage in the amount of $200,000.00 because of bodily injury to or death of one person resulting from any one accident, and subject to such limit for one person in the amount of $500,000.00 because of bodily injury to or death of two or more persons resulting from any one incident, and in the amount of $150,000.00 because of injury to or destruction of property of others resulting from any one incident. The proof of responsibility may be given by filing with the city a certificate of insurance or a bond in the required amount.
(Code 1969, § 10½-26)
Sec. 22-176. - Owner's designated representative.
The owner of the facility shall have on the worksite a designated representative, who shall have the responsibility of finalizing the proposed daily work schedule, who shall represent the owner with contracts with the city and who shall be primarily responsible to ensure that work is done in accordance with the requirements of this article. If the owner's designated representative cannot be present at the worksite at all times, the owner will appoint a substitute who will have the same authority and responsibility as the designated representative. The owner will immediately notify the city's on-site representative of any change in the owner's representative.
(Code 1969, § 10½-27)
Sec. 22-177. - Safety.
All federal, state, county and city safety laws, rules and procedures will be complied with by the owner, its agents or employees.
(Code 1969, § 10½-28)
Sec. 22-178. - Cleanup.
All real property owned by the city shall be returned to it in the same condition that it was in prior to the installation of the facility or equipment. All work areas will be thoroughly policed and cleaned up daily to ensure the total removal of all scrap pieces, hardware, bolts, nuts, wire, fittings and any other equipment being removed, demolished or salvaged, or trash shall be removed from the worksite at the owner's expense.
(Code 1969, § 10½-29)
Sec. 22-179. - Requirements to remove facilities and equipment; consequences of abandonment.
All facilities and equipment formerly owned or used by a franchise shall be removed, demolished, or salvaged within 90 days from the termination of service pursuant to the service franchise agreement. Upon good cause shown, the owner may apply to the city commission for an extension of time for removal. If the facilities and equipment have not been removed within the 90-day period and no application for an extension of time has been made by the owner, the facilities and equipment will be considered abandoned and shall become the property of the city. The fact that the owner elects to abandon its property within the city does not relieve the owner of its responsibility of removing same, and the city may pursue appropriate legal action against an owner for the failure to remove facilities and equipment.
(Code 1969, § 10½-30)
Sec. 22-180. - Penalty for violation.
Any person violating this article shall, upon conviction, be punished as provided in section 1-13.
(Code 1969, § 10½-31)
Sec. 22-181. - Authorized designee.
The city hereby authorizes the city clerk, upon receipt of notice to the city of its right to designate a franchise fee for an applicant for, or holder of, an existing state franchise, to provide written notice to the secretary of state and each applicant for, or holder of, a state franchise within a service area that is wholly or partially located within the city limits of the franchise fee rate applicable to such applicant or holder of a state franchise.
(Ord. No. 1-2008, § 2, 1-14-08)
Secs. 22-182—22-200. - Reserved.
