Chapter 26 - CEMETERIES[1]

Footnotes:
--- (1) ---
State Law reference— Georgia Cemetery Act of 1983, O.C.G.A. § 44-3-130 et seq.; abandoned cemeteries and burial grounds, O.C.G.A. § 36-72-1 et seq.; criminal trespass and damage to property, O.C.G.A. § 16-7-20 et seq.; permits for disposition, disinterment and reinterment, O.C.G.A. § 31-10-2.

Sec. 26-1. - Payment made before digging grave.
No grave shall be dug on any lot until such lot is paid for and a deed executed to the lot. Persons shall be entitled to private burial lots by paying to the city clerk the price set upon them by the city commission.
(Code 1969, § 6-1)
Sec. 26-2. - Deeds to be given, recorded; recording fee.
Any person desiring a private lot in the city-owned cemetery shall, upon payment of the price of any lot, be entitled to the sole privilege of burying thereon. The city clerk shall issue to the purchaser of any lot a deed giving specific information so as to delineate the lot for that purchaser's sole privilege of burying thereon. The number of the lot, names of the purchaser and date of the deed shall be entered in a book kept by the clerk for that purpose. The city clerk shall be authorized to collect a recording fee from the purchaser to ensure that the deed is also recorded in the office of the clerk of the superior court of the county.
(Code 1969, § 6-2)
Sec. 26-3. - Burial outside cemetery prohibited.
Any person who shall bury or cause to be buried any corpse in any other place in this city than the public cemeteries, without permission of the city commission, shall be punished as prescribed in section 1-13.
(Code 1969, § 6-3)
Sec. 26-4. - Trash on property.
It shall be unlawful for any person to place any trash, grass or other refuse or litter of any sort upon any cemetery lot or upon the walks or streets of the cemetery.
(Code 1969, § 6-4)
Sec. 26-5. - Injury to monuments by dripping trees, shrubs.
Whenever any tree, shrub or plant planted or otherwise placed in the cemeteries shall injure any monument or decoration by the drip from its leaves or otherwise, this property may be removed by the city manager or his delegate of the city.
(Code 1969, § 6-5)
Sec. 26-6. - Lot space charge.
The charge for a grave space in the city, inclusive of any corner markers which are required as provided in section 26-10, are as approved by the City of Cedartown Commission in the schedule of fees and charges.
(Code 1969, § 6-9; Ord. No. 7-2019 , § 2(Exh. A), 12-9-19)
Sec. 26-7. - Application for grave opening.
All licensed funeral homes, or any other agency, firm, or business which desires to open any grave space within the cemeteries of the city shall make application therefor at the office of the city clerk. The applicant shall furnish the lot owner of record, name of the decedent, date of death and all other pertinent information required in the application. The city clerk, or any other authorized delegate of the city, may accept applications and ensure that assistance is given in location of grave spaces. All ultimate liability and responsibility for grave opening shall be directly the duty and obligation of the funeral home, firm or other applicant who opens the grave space. Failure to adhere to the requirements of this application, or other provision of this chapter by any applicant, shall result in punishment pursuant to the provisions of section 1-13. In the event of second or subsequent violations, this conduct may cause a forfeiture of the license of the funeral home or other business to operate within the corporate limits of the city.
(Code 1969, § 6-10; Ord. No. 5-1994, § 1)
Sec. 26-8. - Requirements for grave opening.
If any person desires to open any grave within the cemeteries of the city, the person shall abide by the following rules and regulations which shall be in full force and effect pertaining to all city cemeteries:
(1)
All graves shall be dug and prepared only through the direct supervision and control of a licensed funeral home duly authorized to conduct business within the respective state and political subdivision thereof where the entity is engaged in the regular operation of a funeral home.
(2)
All graves shall be opened under the direction or supervision of the superintendent of parks and cemeteries and any person opening the grave must remove all excess dirt, tamp and dress the grave, leaving it in a condition acceptable to the superintendent.
(3)
No duly licensed funeral home shall open any grave within the corporate limits of the city without first having obtained a permit from the city to allow the grave opening.
(4)
Any licensed funeral home which applies to open a grave within the city cemeteries shall cause all graves to be opened and dug pursuant to all of the current rules, regulations and restrictions applicable to cemeteries within the corporate limits of the city.
(5)
The administrative charge for the application for opening and closing of graves shall be as approved by the City of Cedartown Commission in the schedule of fees and charges to be paid to the city clerk at the time the application is made. Failure to pay the charge shall be cause to reject the application.
(6)
There shall not be any grave openings, closings or burials on Christmas Day.
(7)
Only human bodies shall be permitted to be buried in any cemetery within the corporate limits of the city, and no person shall permit any type or species of animal to be buried within the cemeteries.
(Code 1969, § 6-11; Ord. No. 5-1994, § 2; Ord. No. 7-2019 , § 2(Exh. A), 12-9-19)
Sec. 26-9. - Rules and regulations adopted.
The following rules and regulations pertaining to all city cemeteries shall be in full force and effect:
(1)
All graves shall be dug and prepared under the direction or supervision of the superintendent of parks and cemeteries.
(2)
No monument shall be more than 42 inches in height above the ground or less than four inches thick.
(3)
The plan, design and location of all monuments and markers must be submitted to and approved by the superintendent of parks and cemeteries before work thereon is commenced.
(4)
No fencing, sidewalk, or other enclosure of a grave, lot, or burial space will be allowed. Coping walls will be allowed upon approval by the parks and cemeteries superintendent, provided, however, that any grave sites with coping walls must be topped with stone or marble and must be completely cleared of any grass, weeds, or other vegetation.
(5)
Nothing will be permitted on the gravesites except headstones, coping walls, stone or marble foot markers, flowers, and lighted candleholders.
(6)
All flowers are to be in a container after the preparation and completion of the initial internment.
(7)
No flowers, trees, shrubs or other plants shall be planted on any lot.
(8)
Vandalism; trespass.
a.
No person shall damage, injure, obliterate or desecrate any grave or lot.
b.
No person shall trespass upon any grave.
c.
No person shall cut, deface, mutilate or otherwise damage or injure any monument or other memorial or marker.
d.
No person shall damage, injure, destroy, or remove any flower, shrub, tree, or other plant or any structure or other object in the cemetery.
(9)
Reserved.
Further, there are additional restrictions and curfews for Greenwood Cemetery, Northview Cemetery and Southview Cemetery, as set forth in [section] 26-9.1. Strict enforcement and adherence to these curfews, and the potential for multiple violations thereof, are also more specifically defined in section 26-9.2 of this Code.
(Code 1969, § 6-12; Ord. No. 11-1998, § 1, 4-13-98; Ord. No. 17-1998, § 1, 4-20-98; Ord. No. 2-2003, §§ 1, 2, 5-12-03; Ord. No. 18,2006, §§ 1(1)—1(4), 11-13-06; Ord. No. 4,2007, § 1, 5-14-07)
Section 26-9.1. - Curfew.
A mandatory curfew is hereby established for Greenwood Cemetery, Northview Cemetery and Southview Cemetery. This curfew is 30 minutes after sunset (which for purposes of this section shall be considered twilight or the end of daylight hours) until dawn (the beginning of daylight hours). No person shall have the right to be within, remain, loiter, or otherwise congregate individually, or in groups during the prohibited curfew hours.
(Ord. No. 4,2007, § 2, 5-14-07)
Sec. 26-9.2. - Penalty for violation.
Any person found in violation of the curfews established herein shall be subject to the penalties contained in the general penalty provisions of section 1-13 of the Code of Ordinances of the City of Cedartown. As requested by the citizens of the community, the penalty section promulgated hereunder is established with significant penalties, as the court, in its discretion, (including incarceration, and/or fines and/or probation), may determine to impose. Further, the curfew violation offense of this chapter shall be separate and apart from any offense of loitering, malicious, mischief, or other violations which may occur when conduct is being manifested, to authorize charges for multiple offense violators.
The penalties imposed by this section, including conduct which results in multiple violations, is to be strictly enforced by the police department of the city and vigorously prosecuted by the city solicitor. It is apparent that the need to stop random vandalism, loitering, and criminal activity in the cemeteries in violation of curfew hours has become of such significance that the strict enforcement thereof is necessary.
(Ord. No. 4,2007, §§ 3, 4, 5-14-07)
Sec. 26-10. - Corner markers required.
All purchasers of municipal cemetery grave spaces shall be required to place corner markers on the space. These markers shall be designated by the city on lot locations and at various areas within the city cemeteries, so as to more accurately and clearly designate the lot spaces, sections or other areas within city cemeteries.
(Code 1969, § 6-13)
Sec. 26-11. - Abandoned lots; termination of owners' rights.
The abandonment of or termination or forfeiture of an owner's rights in any grave, lot, space, or portion thereof within a cemetery of the city shall be accomplished pursuant to O.C.G.A. § 44-5-211 as it is presently enacted or from time to time may be amended or revised.
(Code 1969, § 6-14)
Sec. 26-12. - Loitering.
It shall be unlawful for any person to loiter, create a nuisance, remain after being told to leave or disperse or otherwise attempt to conduct any meeting, rally or similar activity in any public cemetery in the city.
(Code 1969, § 6-6)
Sec. 26-13. - Damage to property.
It shall be unlawful for any person to mutilate, deface, destroy, move or otherwise damage in any manner any article, monument, grave space or similar object in any public cemeteries of the city.
(Code 1969, § 6-7)
Sec. 26-14. - Removal of property.
It shall be unlawful for any person to remove any personal property, item, article, flower, monument or similar properties from within any areas of the public cemeteries of the city, regardless of whether any such items have monetary value.
(Code 1969, § 6-8)
Sec. 26-15. - Compliance with Code mandatory; exceptions.
(1)
From November 8, 1999, forward, all applicants for grave openings and all others who wish to place monuments or grave enhancements in any city owned cemetery shall comply with all applicable regulations contained in this Code. This includes all requirements as to height, materials, location, width, and all other physical aspects of such monuments. The city will also require applicants to obtain a permit from the city manager or the director of cemeteries prior to any work done in any city cemetery.
(2)
However, in view of the many varied styles, shapes, sizes and varieties of existing monuments and grave markers that are not in compliance with existing cemetery regulations, the city qualifies subsection (1) as follows:
Any person wishing to place a grave marker or monument that is similar or comparable to other existing monuments, even if the existing monuments or enhancements do not comply with city regulations, shall be permitted to do so. Such persons may also request a variance from existing regulations, which will be reviewed and considered by the cemetery director and city manager, prior to the issuance of a permit. No permits, however, shall be issued for any proposed marker, monument or grave enhancement that is not comparable or similar to an existing monument, and not in compliance with the city cemetery regulations.
(3)
No person, firm, or corporation, or contractor shall perform any work, including, but not limited to, any excavation, filling, building, placement, or other similar work in or on any city cemeteries on Saturdays and Sundays, except with the express written permission of the city manager or cemetery director.
(Ord. No. 17-1999, §§ 1—3, 11-8-99)
Sec. 26-16. - Reopening closed graves and moving contents.
(a)
In all city cemeteries, no person, firm, or corporation may reopen any grave, lot, or burial plot which has previously been closed and in which a body has previously been buried, except in the following limited circumstances:
(1)
In the course of a criminal investigation in which it is deemed necessary by law enforcement officials to perform a medical or other forensic examination on the body of the deceased, and such examination is authorized by an order from a court of competent jurisdiction;
(2)
In the course of any civil litigation involving the personal injury or wrongful death of the deceased, in which an additional medical or other forensic exam is sought by parties to the litigation and authorized by an order from a court of competent jurisdiction;
(3)
Where otherwise authorized by an order from any court, administrative body, or other tribunal of competent jurisdiction in the normal exercise of its duly authorized powers and authority;
(4)
Where specifically consented to and authorized in writing by all children or nearest next of kin of the deceased if there are no children, upon proof that the applicants are in fact the decedent's children or next of kin, and the applicants have requested that the decedent's body be removed and buried in another location;
(5)
Where it can be verified from city records that a body was inadvertently or erroneously buried in the wrong lot, and the children or nearest next of kin of the deceased request in writing that the body be removed and relocated to the proper site for this reason;
(6)
In such other circumstances in which removal and/or relocation of a body may be required, and for good cause, as may be determined in the sole discretion of the city manager and parks and cemeteries director.
(b)
Any person, firm, or corporation seeking the removal of the body of the deceased from a grave located in a city cemetery shall complete all affidavits, forms, releases, contracts and any other documents as may be required by the parks and cemeteries director.
(c)
The city shall not participate in any manner whatsoever in the physical removal of any bodies, graves, caskets, coffins, or vaults, and all costs of any such services shall be paid solely by the applicant. Furthermore, the city shall not be liable for any claims for personal injury, wrongful death, emotional distress, property damage, or any other claims of any kind or character arising out of a request submitted under this section.
(Ord. No. 14-2001, § 1, 7-2-01)
Editor's note— Ord. No. 14-2001, § 1, adopted July 2, 2001, added provisions to the Code intended for use as § 26-15. Inasmuch as there were already provisions so designated, the provisions of Ord. No. 14-2001 have been codified as § 26-16 at the discretion of the editor.
