CHARTER AND RELATED LAWS COMPARATIVE TABLE GEORGIA LAWS
This table shows the location of the Georgia Laws cited in the Charter and Related Laws.
EXPAND
Georgia Laws
Year
Page  Section
this Charter
1979 3690 R L § 5, R L § 6
R L § 8, R L § 9
1994 4628 Char. Arts I—VII
  CHARTER AND RELATED LAWS COMPARATIVE TABLE
ORDINANCES
This table shows the location of the ordinances cited in the Charter and Related Laws.
EXPAND
Ordinance
Number Adoption
Date Section  Section
this Charter
1-2004  2- 9-04 1 § 4.13
2       Added § 4.15
9-2013 11-18-13 1 § 3.14(a)
  Subpart B - RELATED LAWS
ARTICLE I. - CEDARTOWN DEVELOPMENT AUTHORITY[1]

Footnotes:
--- (1) ---
Editor's note— The Cedartown Development Authority was created and established by an amendment to the Georgia Constitution as set forth in 1962 Ga. Laws, page 888, and by implementing legislation set forth in an act at 1963 Ga. Laws, page 2878. It was continued in force by an ordinance set forth in 1985 Ga. Laws, page 5341 and by an act of the general assembly set forth in 1986 Ga. Laws, page 5070. Amendments to the 1963 act are indicated by parenthetical history notes following amended provisions. The absence of a history note indicates that the provision remains unchanged from the original 1963 act. Obvious misspellings have been corrected without notation. For stylistic purposes, a uniform system of headings, catchlines and citations to state statutes has been used. Additions made for clarity are indicated by brackets.
Code cross reference—Downtown Development Authority, § 2-96 et seq.
State Law reference— Development Authorities Law, O.C.G.A. § 36-62-1 et seq.; Downtown Development Authorities Law, O.C.G.A. § 36-42-1 et seq.

Sec. 1. - Short title.
This Act may be cited as the "Cedartown Development Authority."
Sec. 2. - Revenue obligations authorized.
In addition to the purposes for which revenue anticipation obligations may be issued by counties, municipal corporations and political subdivisions as provided in said Article VII, Section VII, Paragraph V of the Constitution of the State of Georgia, the Cedartown Development Authority, hereinafter created, be and is hereby authorized to issue revenue obligations to provide funds to be used by said Authority in assisting, promoting, establishing and developing new industries, and assisting, promoting and expanding existing industry, agriculture, trade and commerce within the territory embraced by the corporate limits of the City of Cedartown, as hereinafter provided. Said purposes are hereby found, determined and declared to be for the benefit of the citizens and residents of said city and to be an essential governmental function in relieving unemployment, improving the economy, limiting poor relief assistance, developing natural resources, and otherwise promoting the general welfare.
Sec. 3. - Development authority created.
In furtherance of the purposes for which such issuance of revenue anticipation obligations is authorized there is hereby created a body corporate and politic to be known as the "Cedartown Development Authority," which shall be deemed to be a creature of the State of Georgia, an instrumentality of the City of Cedartown, and a public corporation. The name of said Authority may be changed from time to time by an Act of the General Assembly. The said Authority is created for the purpose of assisting, promoting, establishing and developing new industry, and assisting, promoting and expanding existing industry, agriculture, trade and commerce within the territory embraced by the corporate limits of the City of Cedartown, for the public good and general welfare of said city and its citizens. The scope and jurisdiction of the Authority is restricted to the territory embraced by the corporate limits of the City of Cedartown. The Authority shall not be operated for profit, is an institution of purely public charity, and is an industrial development agency qualified to receive loans and other assistance from the Industrial Development Commission of the State of Georgia, or other governmental agencies.
Sec. 4. - Governmental function.
In carrying out the foregoing objectives, the Authority shall be deemed to be engaging in such functions of government, activities and transactions as the City of Cedartown is by law authorized to undertake.
Sec. 5. - Membership; chairman.
The Authority shall consist of seven (7) members who shall serve for a term of five (5) years. The members shall be appointed by the city commission of the City of Cedartown. Those members of the Authority who are serving as such on July 1, 1999, shall continue to serve as members until the regular expiration of their appointed terms of office and upon the appointment and qualifications of their respective successors. On July 1, 1999, or as soon as practicable thereafter, the City Commission shall appoint two (2) additional members of the Authority who shall serve for initial terms of office of five (5) years and until their respective successors are appointed and qualified. Those and all future successors to members of the Authority whose terms of office are to expire shall be appointed for terms of office of five (5) years each and until their respective successors are appointed and qualified. All members who have served on said Authority shall be eligible for reappointment to succeed themselves if they are reappointed by city commission of the City of Cedartown. Should any member resign or be unable to serve or move beyond the territory embraced by the corporate limits of the City of Cedartown as it is now situated or may hereafter be situated, his successor shall be appointed to serve the remaining term by the city commission of the City of Cedartown. Prior to taking office the members shall subscribe to the following oath, to wit: "I do solemnly swear that I will fully and fairly perform the duties as a member of the Cedartown Development Authority, So Help Me God." A majority of the members shall constitute a quorum and a majority may act for the Authority in any matter. The members shall elect one from among themselves to serve as chairman from year to year. The members of said Authority shall be entitled to no compensation. No vacancy shall impair the power of the Authority to act. Any member is removable for cause or at will by the city commission of the City of Cedartown.
(1979 Ga. Laws, page 3690)
Sec. 6. - Definitions.
As used herein, the following words and terms shall have the following meanings, unless a different meaning clearly appears from the context:
(1)
The word "Authority" shall mean the "Cedartown Development Authority," created hereby.
(2)
The word "project" shall be deemed to mean and include property, real and personal, or either, financed, acquired or held by the Authority for the assistance, promotion, establishment, or development of a new industry or industries, or the assistance, promotion, or expansion of existing industry, trade, or commerce in the City of Cedartown, or any combination thereof; property, real and personal, or either, used as air or water pollution control facilities which any federal, State, or local agency having jurisdiction in the premises shall have certified as being, as designed, in furtherance of the purpose of controlling or abating air or water pollution; any property, real and personal, or either, used as, or in connection with, a sewage disposal facility or a solid waste disposal facility; the acquisition of any such property for any purpose or purposes; the improvement of any such property or properties; the construction, installation, or expansion of one or more buildings, plants, or articles of equipment for the purpose of using, selling, donating, leasing, or renting such land, properties, improvements, structures or equipment to public or private persons, firms, corporations, or associations for such purposes or the loaning of funds to any private person, firm, corporation, or association for the construction, installation, equipping, or expansion of any of the foregoing.
(3)
The term "cost of project" shall embrace: the cost of lands, buildings, improvements, machinery, equipment, properties, easements, rights, franchises, materials, labor, and services acquired or contracted for; the cost of financing charges; the payment of interest prior to and during construction; architectural, accounting, engineering, inspection, fiscal expenses, including any underwriters' commissions or legal expenses, or both; the cost of plans or specifications, or both; and any other expenses necessary or incident to the financing, construction, purchase, or acquisition of any project authorized hereby or to determining the feasibility or practicability of the project; administrative expenses and such other expenses as may be necessary or incidental to the financing herein authorized. Any obligation or expense incurred for any one of the foregoing purposes shall be regarded as a part of the cost of the project and may be paid or reimbursed as such out of the proceeds of revenue bonds or notes issued under the provisions of this Act.
(1979 Ga. Laws, page 3690)
Sec. 7. - Quorum; vote.
Any three (3) members shall constitute a quorum for the transaction of ordinary business of the Authority; however, any action with respect to any project of the Authority must be approved by not less than three (3) affirmative votes.
Sec. 8. - Powers.
The powers of the Authority herein created shall include, but are not limited to, the power, for its corporate purposes:
(1)
To have a corporate seal and alter the same at pleasure.
(2)
To contract and be contracted with, sue and be sued, implead or be impleaded, and complain and defend in all courts of law and equity, to contract with the State of Georgia and any instrumentality thereof, any county or municipality thereof, and any other political subdivisions, and with private persons, firms, corporations, and associations.
(3)
To receive and administer gifts, grants and donations and to administer trusts.
(4)
To buy, acquire, receive as gifts, own, improve, expand, develop, operate, maintain, sell, donate, lease as lessor or lessee, mortgage, pledge, convey to secure debt, and/or otherwise encumber and/or dispose of land, buildings, equipment, furnishings, and/or property of all kinds, real and/or personal, within the City of Cedartown, Georgia, and to make a contract or contracts and/or to execute any instrument or document for the accomplishment thereof, or other purposes.
(5)
To extend credit or make loans to any person, firm, corporation, or other industrial entity for the planning, design, construction, acquisition, or carrying out of any project, which credit or loans shall be secured by loan agreements, mortgages, security agreements, contracts, and all other pertinent instruments, upon such terms and conditions as the Authority shall determine reasonable in connection with such loans, including provisions for the establishment and maintenance of reserves and insurance funds, and in the exercise of powers granted by this subsection in connection with a project for such person, firm, corporation, or other industrial entity, to require the inclusion in any contract, loan agreement, security agreement, or other instruments, of such provisions for guaranty, insurance, construction, use, operation, maintenance, and financing of a project as the Authority may deem necessary or desirable.
(6)
To acquire, accept, or retain equitable interests, security interests, or other interests in any property, real or personal, by mortgage, assignment, security, agreement, pledge, conveyance, contract, lien, loan agreement, or other consensual transfer in order to secure the repayment of any moneys loaned or credit extended by the Authority.
(7)
To make contracts, and to execute any and all instruments necessary or convenient to, or in aid of, the accomplishment of any of the purposes of said Authority, and/or the exercise of any power or powers of said Authority.
(8)
To enter into any contract or contracts for any period of time not exceeding fifty (50) years.
(9)
To appoint and select officers, agents, and employees, including engineering, architectural and construction experts, fiscal agents and attorneys, and to fix their compensation.
(10)
To construct, erect, buy, receive as a gift, acquire, own, repair, remodel, maintain, equip, furnish, extend, expand, develop, improve, donate, sell, lease as lessor or lessee, equip, add to, operate and manage projects and to pay the costs of any such project from any income of the Authority, from the proceeds of revenue bonds issued and sold by the Authority or others, from any taxes levied for the purpose by the State of Georgia, Polk County, the City of Cedartown or any of the other municipalities therein, or from any contributions or loans by political subdivisions or instrumentalities, persons, firms, or corporations, all of which the Authority is hereby authorized to receive and accept and use.
(11)
To elect its own officers from the membership of the Authority; to elect and employ an executive director who is not required to be a member of the Authority; and to authorize and empower such officers to act for the Authority generally or in any specific matter.
(12)
To borrow money and to execute debentures, bonds, notes, mortgages, deeds or bills of sale to secure debt, trust deeds and/or other such instruments as may be necessary or convenient to evidence and secure such borrowing.
(13)
To issue and sell revenue bonds for the purpose of raising funds for the payment, in whole or in part, of the cost of any project of the Authority; to secure the payment of the obligations of such bonds by, but not limited to, selling, conveying, mortgaging, pledging and/or assigning any or all of its funds, income and/or property; and to exercise all the rights, powers and privileges, and to be subject to all the duties and liabilities, which a municipality may exercise and/or be subject to under the provisions of the Revenue Bond Law (Chapter 87-8 of the Code of Georgia [O.C.G.A. § 36-82-60 et seq.]), as the same now is, or hereafter may be, amended. The rights, powers and privileges of the Authority are not limited to those of such a municipality, however.
(14)
To use public funds made available to it, the rents, profits and proceeds from the projects erected, leased or sold, and other funds and income of the Authority, to provide for the operation and maintenance of such projects or other projects, to discharge the principal, interest and expenses of bonds, revenue bonds, and notes issued by the Authority, to pay other debts of the Authority, and to further and promote the objectives of the Authority.
(15)
To exercise any power granted by the laws of the State of Georgia to public corporations or authorities performing similar functions.
(16)
To accumulate its funds from year to year and to invest accumulated funds in any manner that public funds of the State of Georgia or any of its political subdivisions may be invested.
(17)
To adopt, alter, amend and/or repeal its own bylaws, rules and regulations governing the manner in which its business may be transacted and in which the powers granted to it may be enjoyed, as the Authority may deem necessary or expedient in facilitating its business.
(18)
To do all things necessary and convenient to carry out the powers expressly conferred by this Act upon the Authority.
(1979 Ga. Laws, page 3690)
Sec. 9. - Revenue bonds.
The acquisition, construction, improvement, betterment, expansion, or extension of any undertaking or project of the Authority, and the issuance in anticipation of the collection of revenues of such undertaking or project, of bonds to provide funds to pay the whole or a part of the costs thereof, may be authorized by resolution or resolutions of the Authority which may be adopted at a regular or special meeting by a majority of the members of the Authority. Unless otherwise provided therein, such resolution or resolutions shall take effect immediately and need not be laid over or published or posted. The Authority in determining the cost of any undertaking or project for which revenue bonds are to be issued may include all costs as hereinbefore defined. Such bonds shall bear such date or dates, mature at such time or times, not exceeding forty (40) years from their respective dates, shall bear interest at such rate or rates fixed by the Authority and any limitations with respect to interest rates found in the Revenue Bond Law (Chapter 87-8 [O.C.G.A. § 36-82-60 et seq.]), or the usury laws of the State of Georgia shall not apply to obligations issued hereunder, and may be in such form, either coupon or fully registered or both coupon and fully registered, and may be subject to such exchangeability and transferability provisions, as the bond resolution authorizing the issuance of such bonds or any indenture or trust agreement may provide and may be subject to redemption prior to maturity and may contain such terms, covenants, agreements, and conditions as the resolution or resolutions authorizing the issuance of such bonds may provide. Except as herein provided to the contrary, such bonds shall be issued and validated in the Superior Court of Polk County, Georgia, in the same manner as revenue bonds of municipalities are issued and validated under the "Revenue Bond Law" (1937 Ga. Laws, pp. 761—774; Chapter 87-8 of the Code of Georgia [O.C.G.A. § 36-82-60 et seq.]), as now and hereafter amended. In the proceedings to validate such bonds, the Cedartown Development Authority shall be named as party defendant. In the event no bill of exceptions is filed within the time prescribed by law or, if filed, the judgment validating the bonds shall be affirmed by the Supreme Court of Georgia, such judgment shall be forever conclusive as to the validity of said bonds and the security therefor against said Authority.
(1979 Ga. Laws, page 3690)
Sec. 10. - Tax exemption for property, bonds.
All lands and improvements thereon, the title to which is vested in the Authority, and all debentures and revenue bonds issued by the Authority, shall be exempt from state and local taxation. The exemption from taxation herein provided shall not extend to tenants nor lessees of the Authority. The property, obligations and the interest on the obligations of the Authority shall have the same immunity from taxation as the property, obligations and the interest of the obligations of the City of Cedartown.
Sec. 11. - Persons handling money to be bonded.
It shall be the duty of the Authority to have all persons handling funds of the Authority fully and adequately bonded for their faithful accounting for such funds.
Sec. 12. - Debt against state or city prohibited; authority is nonprofit.
The Authority shall not be empowered or authorized in any manner to create a debt as against the State of Georgia or the City of Cedartown. The Authority is created for nonprofit purposes and all property acquired by the Authority and any funds realized by the Authority shall be used continually and exclusively for the purposes for which the Authority is created.
Sec. 13. - Facilities must be leased or sold to others.
No building or facility acquired hereunder shall be operated by the Authority but shall be leased or sold to one or more persons, firms or corporations. If sold, the purchase price may be paid at one time or in installments falling due in not more than 30 years from the date of transfer of possession. The lessee or purchaser shall be required to pay all costs of operating and maintaining the building or buildings and to pay rentals or installments sufficient, together with other revenues which may be pledged for the purpose, to retire all indebtedness, both principal and interest, and to pay all other expenses which the Authority may have incurred in connection with the undertaking.
Sec. 14. - City may convey real or personal property to authority; donation of property or services; mortgaging of such property.
If the Authority shall deem it expedient to construct any project or use any project already constructed on lands, the title to which shall be in the City of Cedartown, the governing authorities of the City of Cedartown are authorized in their discretion to convey title to such lands, including any improvements thereon, without cost, to the Authority. Said city may donate to said Authority, real estate, personal property and services for any such project. Any such land, improvements, or personal property so conveyed or donated to the Authority may be mortgaged, conveyed, or pledged to secure obligations of the Authority.
Sec. 15. - Disposition of property upon dissolution of authority.
Should said Authority for any reason be dissolved, title to all property of every kind and nature, real and personal, held by the Authority at the time of such dissolution, shall be conveyed to the City of Cedartown subject to any mortgages, liens, leases or other encumbrances outstanding against or in respect to said property. No private interest shall exist in the property of the Authority. The Authority shall hold title only for the benefit of the public.
Sec. 16. - Annual audit.
The books and records of the Authority shall be audited at least annually, at the expense of the Authority, by a competent independent auditor; and the minutes and records of the same shall be filed with the clerk of the city council [commission] of said city and shall be available for public inspection.
Sec. 17. - Corporate existence regardless of lack of bond issue.
The Authority shall exist and have all of said powers, and the right to exercise the same for its corporate purposes, regardless of whether or not it shall issue revenue anticipation obligations hereunder.
