Chapter 10 - BUSINESSES[1]
ARTICLE I. - IN GENERAL

Secs. 10-1—10-18. - Reserved.
ARTICLE II. - PRECIOUS METALS DEALERS[2]

Sec. 10-19. - Definitions.
The following words, terms and phrases, when used in this article, shall have the meanings ascribed to them in this section, except where the context clearly indicates a different meaning:
Gold, silver and other precious metal buyer means any person engaged in whole or in part in the business of purchasing tangible personal property made up of gold, silver, or other precious metals or tangible property containing gold, silver, or other precious metals from persons or sources other than manufacturers or licensed dealers.
(Code 1994, § 22-71; Res. of 1-20-1981, § 1)
Sec. 10-20. - Penalty for violation of article.
Any person who buys gold, silver or other precious metals who shall:
(1)
Fail to make an entry of any item purchased in his permanent record book;
(2)
Make any false entries therein;
(3)
Falsify, obliterate, destroy or remove from his place of business his permanent record book;
(4)
Refuse to allow any duly authorized law enforcement officer to inspect such permanent record book or any goods in his possession during the ordinary business hours;
(5)
Fail to maintain a record of each purchase for at least two years;
(6)
Fail to hold the gold, silver, or precious metal item that he has purchased for a period of ten days; or
(7)
Fail to provide the daily records as required in this article;
shall, upon conviction, be punished as provided in section 1-11.
(Code 1994, § 22-72; Res. of 1-20-1981, § 5)
Sec. 10-21. - Record of transactions.
(a)
Any purchaser of gold, silver or other precious metals shall maintain a book in permanent form in which the following shall be entered:
(1)
The date of the purchase transaction;
(2)
The name of the person with whom the transaction is conducted;
(3)
The name, age and address of the customer;
(4)
A description of the general appearance of the customer, the distinctive number from the customer's driver's license or other similar identification cards, and the full name, weight, height, sex and race of the person of whom property is purchased;
(5)
An identification and description of the purchased goods including, if available, the distinguishing markings, number, monogram, and all identification markings found on the item purchased;
(6)
The price paid for the items, the number of the check, if payment is made by check;
(7)
The signature of the customer from whom the items are purchased.
(b)
The book shall be opened to the inspection of any duly authorized law enforcement officer during the ordinary hours of business or at a reasonable time.
(c)
The record of each purchase transaction as provided in this section shall be maintained for a period of not less than two years.
(Code 1994, § 22-73; Res. of 1-20-1981, §§ 2, 3)
Sec. 10-22. - Holding period; list for county sheriff.
The buyer of gold, silver, or other precious metals in the unincorporated areas of the county shall be required to keep all merchandise purchased in his possession for a period of at least ten days from the date of purchase and submit a list of the items along with the information requested by this article to the county sheriff or his designee.
(Code 1994, § 22-74; Res. of 1-20-1981, § 4)
Sec. 10-23. - License fee.
The license fee for a gold, silver and precious metal buyer shall be as set forth in the schedule of fees and charges.
(Code 1994, § 22-75; Res. of 1-20-1981, § 6)
Secs. 10-24—10-45. - Reserved.
ARTICLE III. - LOGGING

Sec. 10-46. - Permit required.
No person shall begin logging a tract of land in the county without first obtaining a permit from the board of county commissioners in the manner specified in this article.
(Ord. of 3-18-2003, § 1)
Sec. 10-47. - General standards for issuance of temporary access permit.
The county shall issue a permit hereunder when it finds:
(1)
That the work shall be done in accordance with the standard specifications of county public works department;
(2)
That the health, welfare and safety of the public will not be unreasonably impaired; and
(3)
That the roadways will not be damaged and proper water drainage will not be adversely affected.
(Ord. of 3-18-2003, § 2)
Sec. 10-48. - Construction and supervision.
All work for which a permit is granted hereunder shall be constructed according to the specifications established by the county so that the drainage, access, compaction, materials, dimensions, slope, width, and other aspects shall not unreasonably interfere with traffic flow and drainage considerations. All ramp or access construction granted hereunder shall be at least 48 feet in width and under the direction and supervision of the road superintendent of each district, or his designee, who shall have the authority to order the applicant to immediately cease all logging when applicant does not construct and maintain access ramps to county standards. The logging operator will be responsible for all cost associated with ramp construction.
(Ord. of 3-18-2003, § 3)
Sec. 10-49. - Permit information.
Every person required to procure a logging permit under the provisions of this article shall submit a written application for such permit to the county board of commissioners. The written application shall state the following:
(1)
The name and address of the operator.
(2)
The name and address of the property owner.
(3)
The purpose for which the application is submitted.
(4)
A map showing the location of the tract to be logged.
(Ord. of 3-18-2003, § 4)
Sec. 10-50. - Issuance of permit.
After a review of the application, the county shall either issue or deny the request for a permit in writing. If the permit is approved, the permit shall be valid for the permitted site until released or terminated pursuant to the terms of this article.
(Ord. of 3-18-2003, § 5)
Sec. 10-51. - Display of permit.
It shall be the duty of any operator hereunder to display the permit issued to him in a conspicuous place at the site of the driveway. It shall be unlawful for any person to exhibit such permit at or about any location not covered thereby, or to misrepresent the number of the permit or the date of expiration of the permit.
(Ord. of 3-18-2003, § 6)
Sec. 10-52. - Bond.
(a)
Prior to receiving the permit, all operators hereunder shall file with the county a cash bond or irrevocable letter of credit from a lending institution in the amount of $5,000.00 and shall agree to indemnify and hold harmless the county board of commissioners from all damages and cost of repairs to any county road, county rights-of-way, ditches, and bridges.
(b)
Within 30 days after completion of the project, operator shall remove the driveway and restore the right-of-way to its original condition. The bond may be released provided all corrections, repairs, and improvements have been made by the operator within the time limits stated herein.
(c)
In the event the operator fails to correct any damages within 30 days after completion of the project or within 30 days from written notice from county, whichever first occurs, the county may correct all damages. All costs and charges to the county for the corrective work shall be the responsibility of the operator, who shall reimburse the county within 30 days after he is presented with a written bill for corrective work. The county shall use the bond as an offset to the costs, and if the costs of the corrective work exceed the value of said bond, the applicant shall be responsible for the deficit balance.
(Ord. of 3-18-2003, § 7)
Sec. 10-53. - Warning signs.
Any firm, company, or person operating on county rights-of-way shall be required to post warning signs at least 500 feet on both sides of the temporary driveway adequately warning oncoming traffic of persons, vehicles, equipment or machinery entering roadway.
(Ord. of 3-18-2003, § 8)
