APPENDIX A - ZONING[1]
AN ORDINANCE OF THE CITY OF PEARSON TO REGULATE THE LOCATION, HEIGHT, BULK NUMBER OR STORIES, AND SIZE OF BUILDINGS AND OTHER STRUCTURES; THE PERCENTAGE OF LOT WHICH MAY BE OCCUPIED; THE SIZE OF THE YARDS, COURTS, AND OTHER OPEN SPACES; THE DENSITY AND DISTRIBUTION OF POPULATIONS; AND THE USES OF BUILDINGS, STRUCTURES AND LAND FOR TRADE, INDUSTRY, RESIDENCE, RECREATION, PROTECTION AGAINST FLOODS, PUBLIC ACTIVITIES OR OTHER PURPOSES AND ESTABLISHING THE BOUNDARIES THEREOF; DEFINING CERTAIN TERMS USED HEREIN, PROVIDING FOR A BOARD OF APPEALS; FOR THE METHOD OF ADMINISTRATION AND AMENDMENT; FOR THE IMPOSITION OF PENALTIES FOR VIOLATION; FOR REPEALING CONFLICTING ORDINANCES AND FOR OTHER PURPOSES.
[ARTICLE I. - IN GENERAL]

[Sec. 1.0. - Title.]
This Ordinance shall be known as the Pearson Zoning Ordinance.
[Sec. 1.1. - Enactment clause.]
In pursuance of the authority conferred by Article IX, Section IV, Paragraph II of the Constitution of the State of Georgia, 1976, and by the Municipal Home Rule Act of 1965, Georgia Laws 1965, page 298, as amended, and the purpose of promoting the health, safety, morals, conveniences, order, prosperity or general welfare of the present and future inhabitants of the City of Pearson; in accordance with a comprehensive plan designed to lessen congestion in the streets, to secure safety from fire, panic and other dangers, to provide adequate light and air, to prevent the overcrowding of land,, to avoid undue concentration of population, to facilitate the adequate provision of transportation, water, sewage, schools, parks and other public requirements, being made with reasonable consideration, among other things, of the character of the district and its peculiar suitability for particular uses; and with a view to promoting desirable living conditions and sustained stability of neighborhoods, protecting property against blight and depreciation, securing economy in governmental expenditures, conserving the value of buildings and encouraging the most appropriate use of land, buildings and other structures throughout the City of Pearson, and in order to comprehensively amend the Pearson Zoning Ordinance, as adopted January 12, 1999, as amended, BE IT ORDAINED by the Commission of the City of Pearson, Georgia, as follows:
[ARTICLE II. - C-1 COMMERCIAL DISTRICT]

Sec. 10.1. - Intent of district.
The C-1 Commercial District is established as a district to contain as principal uses those commercial and service activities, which are for the convenience of the surrounding residential districts. The specific intentions of the regulatory provisions as applied to this district are to:
(a)
Encourage the sale of products and services which normally depend on the Proximity of other similar establishments;
(b)
Encourage businesses where the customer does not normally take away products and services in a truck;
(c)
Prohibit industrial and certain types of commercial uses of land which would Substantially interfere with the development or continuation of the permitted Commercial structures in the district;
(d)
Encourage the discontinuance of existing uses that would not be permitted as new uses under these provisions; and
(e)
Discourage any use which, because of its character or size, interfere with the use of the land in the district as a shopping or service center for the surrounding residential district.
Sec. 10.2. - Permitted uses.
(a)
Branch offices of banks, insurance companies, loan agencies real estate companies, utility companies and similar establishments.
(b)
Professional offices, to include governmental but excluding medical and Dental offices and clinics.
(c)
Retail sales similar to the following: News-stands, drug stores, gift shops, Specialty shops, convenience stores, supermarkets and etc.
(d)
Retail sales similar to the following: barber and beauty shops, tailor shops, dry cleaning establishments, self service laundries, shoe repair shops, photographer's shops, pest control companies and etc.
(e)
Churches, synagogues and other places of worship.
(f)
Nurseries (pre-school nurseries, day nurseries, day care centers, and similar uses).
(g)
Service stations, provided that all pumps are set back (20) feet from the right of way line. All buildings and structures shall comply with the setback requirements from any abutting street; point of egress and ingress shall be arranged as to minimize interference with normal street traffic flow and no building shall be placed within (40) forty feet of a residential property line.
(h)
Accessory uses.
(i)
Signs.
(j)
Libraries, art galleries, museums, and other similar public uses.
(k)
Hotels, Motels, and Boarding Houses.
(l)
Commercial recreation facilities such as bowling alleys, pool or billiard parlors, roller skating rinks, theaters, miniature golf courses indoor swimming pools, video arcades, health centers, etc.
(m)
Commercial parking lots.
(n)
Animal hospitals, or Veterinary clinics provided that any structure used for that purpose shall be at least 200 feet from any other structure to include any Residential district.
Sec. 10.3. - Prohibited uses.
Any use that would be a conflict of interest to the development of, or pertain to the restrictions of improvements that would not reflect conforming uses for the future.
ARTICLE III. - DEFINITIONS AND INTERPRETATIONS OF TERMS

Sec. 30. - Interpretation of terms or words.
For the purpose of these regulations, all words used in the present tense include the future tense, all words in the plural number include the singular number, and all words in the singular number include the plural number. The word "building" includes the term "structure". The word "person" includes a firm, company, partnership, association, syndicate, public or private authority or corporation. The word "shall" is mandatory; the word "may" is permissive. The word "used" shall be considered to also include "designed, arranged or intended to be used or occupied", The term "Planning Commission" refers to the Pearson Planning Commission. The term "Board" refers to the Board of Zoning Appeals. The words "Governing Body" refer to the Commission of the City of Pearson, Georgia.
Sec. 31. - Definitions.
31.1.
Accessory . A use or structure customarily incidental to and subordinate to the principal use or structure and located on the same lot with such principal use or structure and not involving additional business, professional, trade or occupational activities.
31.2.
Alley. A secondary way which affords access to the side or rear of abutting property.
31.3.
Automobile service station . Buildings and premises where gasoline, oils, greases, batteries, tires and automobile accessories may be supplied and dispensed at retail (or in connection with a private operation), where no part of the premises is used for the storage of dismantled or wrecked vehicle parts, and also where minor services similar to the following may be rendered:
(a)
Sale and servicing of spark plugs, batteries, and distributors;
(b)
Tire repair and servicing, but no recapping;
(c)
Replacement of minor items of equipment such as mufflers and tail pipes, water hose, fan belts, brake fluid, etc.;
(d)
Radiator cleaning and flushing;
(e)
Minor servicing and replacing of carburetors.
31.4.
Bank. The left or right side, edge, border or margin farthest from the middle of the canal.
31.5.
Bed and breakfast inn. Any owner-occupied or owner-managed building or portion thereof providing overnight lodging for occupancy by transient persons in principal dwelling unit/building for compensation.
31.6.
Board of zoning appeals. Board of Zoning Appeals shall mean that Board appointed by the Governing Body specifically to hear all appeals as provided by these regulations.
31.7.
Buffer, planted. A relatively narrow strip of land covered by sufficient permanent, evergreen planting (consisting of both trees and shrubs) to provide a continuous physical screen preventing visual access from one use area to another and to reduce the noise intensity transferred from one use area to another.
31.8.
Building. Any structure having a roof supported by columns or walls intended for shelter, housing or enclosure of persons, animals, chattels or property of any kind.
31.9.
Building line. That line which represents the distance a building or structure must be set back from a lot line or a street right-of-way line according to the terms of this Ordinance.
31.10.
Building, principal. A building in which the principal use of the lot is conducted.
31.11.
Canal. An artificial channel, ditch, conduit, culvert, drain, waterway, gully, Ravine or wash in water flows either continuously or intermittently and which has a definite channel, bed and banks.
31.12.
Care home. A community based residential facility that provides room with or without board, resident services, and 24-hour supervision. Such a facility functions as a single housekeeping entity and is licensed and/or approved by an authorized regulatory agency. This category includes youth or adult congregate living facilities; residential facilities for developmentally disabled persons, for persons with mental health problems, for battered and abused persons, for dependent children; and, similar care homes for aged, infirm, chronically ill or convalescent persons. All proposed care homes are permissible only subject to the following requirements and limitations:
(a)
"Location Standards". All proposed care homes shall be subject to the following location standards:
(i)
A proposed care home shall not be located in any voting district where residents of existing care homes comprise 1% or more of that voting district's current total population as estimated by the City of Pearson Planning Department.
(ii)
A proposed care home shall not be located within a radius of 1,000 feet of an existing care home. Measurement shall be made from the nearest point of the site of the existing facility to the nearest point of the site of the proposed facility.
(b)
"Recreation Open Space". Recreation open space shall be provided in accordance with the following schedules:
(i)
Two hundred feet for each resident under 18 years of age.
(ii)
150 sq. feet for each resident 18 years of age or older.
All such recreation space shall be appropriately landscaped and buffered with plating [planting] strips in accordance with Section 610.3 for the comfort, convenience and enjoyment of the residents with due consideration for adjacent properties.
(c)
"Yards for Facilities with More than 10 Occupants". The rear and interior side yards of facilities with more than 10 occupants shall be screened with a solid textured wall, fence or compact hedge in accordance with zoning.
(d)
Limitation on Signs. Signs permitted shall be only Classes 1 or 2.
31.13.
Care residence. A Care Residence is a place where any person makes His/her permanent home and provides care or services pursuant to Georgia Law and within the limitations set forth in the Pearson Zoning Ordinance.
31.14.
Care resident. A person who is provided furnished residential living space, housing, food and/or personal services in an approved care residence.
31.15.
Club private or lodge and fraternal/Masonic. An incorporated or unincorporated association for civic, social, cultural, religious, literary, political, recreational, or like activities, but not including shooting clubs operated for the benefit of their members and not open to the public. When located in an O. Office zoning district, such uses shall not conduct fund-raising activities including circuses, carnivals and similar activities nor the conduct of vending stands, merchandising or commercial activities.
31.16.
Clustering. A form of land design in which structures are placed in closely arranged groups.
31.17.
Condominium. A form of ownership of a duplex or multi-family structure In which one owns an undivided interest (share) in common property and a separate (absolute interest in a particular space).
31.18.
Convenience store. A retail business which sells those items which are purchased frequently and generally in small amounts. Grocery stores handle a larger percentage of this type of sales.
31.19.
Density. The number of dwelling units per acre of land developed or used for residential purposes. Unless otherwise clearly stated, density requirements in this Ordinance are expressed in dwelling units per net acre, that is, per acre of land devoted to residential use exclusive of land utilized for streets, alleys, parks, playgrounds, school grounds or other public uses.
31.20.
Dwelling. A building or portion of a building arranged or designed to provide living quarters for one or more families.
31.21.
Dwelling, duplex. A dwelling designed for or occupied by two families living independently of each other.
31.22.
Dwelling, group. A dwelling designed for or occupied by several unrelated persons or families, but in which separate cooking facilities are not provided for such persons or families. The term "group dwelling" includes the terms rooming/boarding house, apartment, hotel, fraternity house or sorority house. A hotel, motel or tourist home shall not be deemed to be a group dwelling as herein defined.
31.23.
Dwelling, multi-family. A dwelling designed for or occupied by three or more families living independently of each other in separate dwelling units.
31.24.
Dwelling, single-family. A detached dwelling, other than a mobile home, designed for or occupied exclusively by one family.
31.25.
Dwelling, townhouse. A style of multi-family development designed as one of a series of three to ten attached dwelling units on separate lots which:
(1)
may or may not have a common roof;
(2)
shall not have a common exterior wall;
(3)
are separated from each other by fire resistive party wall partitions extending at least from the lowest floor level through the roof.
31.26.
Drive-in. A retail or service enterprise wherein service is provided to the consumer on the outside of the principal building. The term "drive-in" includes such establishments as: drive-in restaurant, dairy bars, theaters, banks, laundries, food stores and car washaterias.
31.27.
Family. A group of any number of persons, a majority of whom are directly related either by blood, marriage, or adoption; or a group of less than five persons, not necessarily related; and either group occupying a single dwelling unit. Directly related shall mean no more than one generation removed.
31.28.
Fireproof. That type of construction in which the walls, partitions, columns, floors, roofs, ceilings and other structural members are noncombustible with sufficient fire resistance to withstand the effects of a fire and to prevent its spread from one story to another.
31.29.
Flea market. A building, portion of a building, or open-air market area where individual market stalls or spaces are provided (rented or leased) for persons on a daily or other basis, to display, buy, sell, exchange, or deal in new or used goods, inside the building or in a designated open-air market area. A flea market shall not include such activities when conducted by a church, school or other similar public service organization, nor shall it include an antique store, junk store, auction house or other similar business established on a permanent basis, nor shall it include garage sales, yard sales, rummage sales or occasional craft fairs and benefit sales.
31.30.
Floor-area ratio. The maximum square foot amount of total floor area permitted for each square foot of land area.
31.31.
Group development. A group of two or more buildings or principal uses permitted within the zoning district in which the proposed development is located and intended to be operated under one management, such as an apartment project or office development. A mixture of residential, commercial and/or industrial uses not specifically permitted in the zoning district in which the proposed development is located must meet the requirements of zoning.
31.32.
Home occupation. An occupation or profession conducted within a dwelling by persons residing in the dwelling (not including tourist homes or boarding houses) provided:
(a)
That no person other than residents of the dwelling is employed;
(b)
The floor area normally used for conducting this use shall not exceed twenty (20) percent of the total floor area of the dwelling;
(c)
Such activity is conducted in a manner which will not change the outside appearance of the dwelling;
(d)
Merchandise is not sold in connection with such home occupation;
(e)
Such home occupation does not generate such street traffic or parking as to create a nuisance to the neighborhood;
(f)
Except for that customary to a normal household, no equipment is used nor any activity is permitted which is obnoxious or offensive by reason of noise, odor, dust, smoke, fumes, vibration, or interference with normal radio and television reception to other residents in the neighborhood; and
(g)
No sign is displayed except those allowed for a residence and there is nothing visible form the street to indicate that a home occupation in being conducted therein.
It shall be a continuing responsibility of the occupant to enforce the foregoing requirements with respect to a home occupation and to prevent the creation of a nuisance to the neighborhood. Failure to do so shall constitute a violation of this Ordinance.
31.33.
Home provider I. A person who provides care and furnished residential living space in his/her residence including, without limitation, housing, food service, and one or more personal services for three or less care residents who are not related to the owner or administrator by blood or marriage, and who meets all of the following requirements:
1)
Care Residences and occupancy limits shall meet the requirements of the City of Pearson Standard Housing Code, Pearson Zoning Ordinance and all, other applicable codes.
2)
No more than three care residents shall be placed per residence. Care residents shall live in the care residence as part of the family unit.
3)
Home providers must obtain all requirement permits and licenses pursuant to the Code of the City of Pearson, Georgia and applicable Georgia Law before receiving care residents in the care residence.
4)
No continuous nursing care or medical treatment shall be allowed in the care residence.
31.34.
Loading space, off-street. Space logically and conveniently located for pickups and deliveries, scaled to delivery vehicles expected to be used, and accessible to such vehicles when required off-street parking spaces are filled.
31.35.
Lot. Unless clearly indicated otherwise, the word "lot" when used alone shall mean a "zoning lot" as herein defined.
31.36.
Lot, corner. A lot located at the intersection of two or more streets.
31.37.
Lot, interior. A lot, other than a corner lot, which has frontage on only one street other than an alley.
31.38.
Lot, through. A lot, other than a corner lot, which has frontage on more than one street.
31.39.
Lot, zoning. A parcel of land occupied, or to be occupied, by a principal use, or uses, together with permitted accessory uses, yards, and open spaces, having frontage on an officially accepted public street or on an approved private street, and having not less than the minimum area required by these regulations for a lot in the zoning district within which said parcel of land is located. A lot of Record may or may not be a zoning lot.
31.40.
Lot depth. The mean horizontal distance between the front and rear lot lines, measured in the general direction of the side lot lines.
31.41.
Lot width. The distance between side lot lines measured at the front building line.
31.42.
Lot of record. An area designated as a separate and distinct parcel of land on a legally recorded subdivision plat or in a legally recorded deed as filed in the official records of the Clerk of Atkinson County Superior Court.
31.43.
Manufactured housing. A single-family dwelling which satisfies the definition of a mobile home.
31.44.
Mobile homes. A single-family dwelling designed for transportation after fabrication, in one or more sections not otherwise in compliance with the building codes of the City of Pearson, Georgia, on streets or highways, on its own wheels or on a flatbed or other trailers and arriving at the site where it is to be occupied as a dwelling complete and ready for occupancy except for minor and incidental unpacking and assembly operations, location on permanent foundations, connections of utilities and the like. Mobile homes can consist of one or more components that can be retracted for towing purposes and subsequently expanded for additional capacity or of two or more units separately towable but designed to be joined into one integral unit. A home complying with the terms of the City Building Code relating to the construction of single-family homes and placed on a foundation complying with all of the terms of the City Building Code relating to single-family home, shall not be deemed to be a mobile home.
31.45.
Mobile home park. A parcel of land under single management which has been planned and improved for the rental or lease of lots and the provision of services for mobile homes for transient and/or non-transient use. Also considered a business.
31.46.
Mobile home subdivision. A parcel of land developed under single ownership where lots are sold for the use of mobile homes and where such services are water, sewage disposal, recreational facilities and laundry facilities may be provided by the management for a service charge.
31.47.
Non-conforming buildings. A building or structure which does not conform to the height area, bulk or yard requirements of the district in which it is located.
31.48.
Non-conforming use. Use of a building, structure or parcel of land for an otherwise lawful purpose that does not conform to the regulations of the zoning district in which it is situated.
31.49.
Nurseries. (Pre-school nurseries, day nurseries, day care centers, private kindergartens and similar uses). For the care of three (3) or more non-related children whether or not meals are provided.
31.50.
Official Zoning Map. Map, zoning map, Official Zoning Map shall mean and refer to Official Zoning Map, City of Pearson.
31.51.
Party walls. A common wall between two buildings, usually adjoining and parallel to the lot line, and uses primarily by the parties upon whose lot the wall is located.
31.52.
Personal services. Personal services include, but are not limited to, individual assistance with or without supervision or self-administered medication and essential activities of daily living such as eating, bathing, grooming, dressing, and toileting.
31.53.
Planned unit development. A single parcel or contiguous parcels of land within which a number of buildings are located or intended to be located in accordance with an overall plan of design and not in relation to a prearranged pattern of land subdivision.
31.54.
Planning commission. The officially designated Pearson Planning Commission, as originally established by the City Governments in accordance with Georgia General Planning Act No. 358, 1957, as amended and Georgia State Constitution Article IX, Section IV, Paragraph II provision authorizing cities to plan and zone, as amended.
31.55.
Professional offices. Professional offices shall include offices of recognized professions, including accountants, architects, chiropractors, dentists, doctors, engineers, landscape architects, lawyers, optometrists, osteopaths, podiatrists, psychiatrists, land surveyors, or other related occupations.
31.56.
Prohibited uses. The use of any zoning lot, building, structure or dwelling or any part of any zoning lot, lot, building, structure or dwelling for any use of or purpose other than those set forth (1) in the section titled "Intent of District" for the Zoning District in which such zoning lot, lot, building, structure or dwelling lies, or (2) in the "Permitted Use" section for the zoning district in which such zoning lot, lot, building, structure or dwelling lies or (3) any uses that is accessory (as defined in this Ordinance) to the lawful principal use of such zoning lot, lot, building, structure or dwelling. A use that is accessory to an unlawful use is a prohibited use. A special exception obtained in accordance with the provisions of this Ordinance shall not be a prohibited use.
31.57.
Residence. Residence means the place where any person makes his/her permanent home.
31.58.
Restaurant. A building or part of a building used or designed for the serving of food and/or beverage for compensation, either for consumption on premises or takeout.
31.59.
Sign. The term "sign" shall mean and include every sign, billboard, poster panel, free-standing ground sign, roof sign, projecting sign, pylon sign, illuminated sign, sign painted on a wall, window, marquee, awning or canopy, and shall include any announcement, declaration, demonstration, display, ribbon, banner, illustration or insignia used to advertise or promote the interests of any person when the same is placed in view of the general public, traveling along a public street right-of-way.
(a)
Free Standing Sign. A free standing sign may contain a sign or signs on one side only, or it may be a V-shaped structure, or one containing signs back-to-back. A free standing sign structure is one sign, not attached to a building and supported by any other structure in or upon the ground, excluding mobile signs.
(b)
Sign Area. The area of the face of the sign formed by a perimeter consisting of a series of straight lines enclosing all parts of the sign. The area of free-standing sign structure is the area of the face or faces on each side only.
(c)
Business Identification Sign. A business identification sign is a sign that contains the name of the business enterprise located on the same premises as the sign and the nature of the business conducted there. Not more than one-third of the area of a business identification sign may be devoted to commodity or service advertising.
(d)
Business Identification Pylon Sign. A sign erected on a single pole or multiple poles which contains only the name or the nature of the business conducted on the premises on which it is located.
[e]
Advertising Sign. A sign which directs attention to a business, profession, idea, product, service, activity, or entertainment not conducted, sold or offered on the premises upon which the sign is located. It may either be free-standing or be attached to a building.
(f)
Illuminated sign. When artificial illumination techniques are used in any fashion to project the message on a sign, that sign shall be an illuminated sign.
(g)
Directional sign. The term "directional sign" means signs containing directional information about public places owned or operated by State, Federal or local government or their agencies; publicly or privately owned natural phenomena, historic, cultural, scientific, educational, and religious sites, and areas of natural beauty or naturally suited for outdoor recreation, deemed to be in the interest of the traveling public.
(h)
Traffic sign. Signs containing information for direction of all moving traffic/vehicles erected by a public agency.
(i)
Warning sign. Signs containing information to alert traffic to special conditions on the street/highway erected by a public agency.
(j)
Information sign. Signs containing information other than directions, traffic or warning erected by a public agency.
(k)
Mobile sign. A sign designed and constructed in such a manner as to readily allow changes of location.
(l)
Wall sign. Signs attached to the wall of a building and not projecting more than twelve (12) inches from the building.
(m)
Projecting sign. A sign extending outward not more than eight (8) feet from the wall of a building and located overhead not less than the height of the first story, ceiling.
(n)
Monument sign . A monument sign structure is one sign either single-faced or double-faced located near the front property line indicating the name of the center's or site's general activity and may include the names of business occupants therein.
(o)
Individual letter business sign. An individual letter sign consists of individual letters that spell the name of the business and are placed on the wall of the business.
(p)
Roof sign. A roof sign structure is one business sign either single-faced or double-faced located on the roof of the business advertised by the sign and extending upward not more than 8 feet high.
31.60.
Special exception. A specifically designated use that would not be appropriate generally or without restriction throughout the zoning district but which, if controlled as to number, area, location or relation to the neighborhood, would, in the opinion of the Board of Zoning Appeals, promote the public health, safety, welfare, morals, order, comfort, convenience, appearance, prosperity or general welfare.
31.61.
Street. A public way for vehicular traffic which affords the principal means of access to abutting property.
31.62.
Street, collector. A street designed for uninterrupted movement of predominately local traffic at moderate speed.
31.63.
Street, major. A street designed for rapid, continuous movement of relatively large volumes of through and local traffic.
31.64.
Street, minor. A street which is intended to provide direct access to its abutting properties.
31.65.
Street, private. A private way for vehicular traffic which affords the principal means of access to abutting properties.
31.66.
Street centerline. That line surveyed and monumental by the governing body shall be the centerline of a street; or in the event that no centerline has been so determined, it shall be that line running midway between and parallel to the general direction of the outside right-of-way lines of such streets.
31.67.
Structure. Anything constructed or erected which requires a fixed location on the ground, or which is attached to something having a fixed location on the ground, including but not limited to buildings, mobile homes, signs, walls and fences.
31.68.
Supermarket. A self-service retail market selling food and household merchandise, including a grocery store or food store.
31.69.
Taxicab company. A taxicab company (stand) licensed to operate in the City of Pearson and operating out of an office/headquarters/building with its vehicles, whether owned or leased. Such taxicab company shall have facilities to maintain vehicles or shall contract such services at other legal facilities, and shall meet off-street parking requirements. No taxicab company shall do maintenance, oil changes and other services on their taxi vehicles on the public streets and public parking spaces of the streets of the City of Pearson.
31.70.
Tourist home. A dwelling in which sleeping accommodations in less than ten rooms are provided or offered for the use of guests in return for compensation and meals may or may not be offered. Any dwelling in which such accommodations are offered in ten or more rooms shall be deemed to be a "hotel". The use of a dwelling as a tourist home shall not be considered an accessory use or a customary home occupation.
31.71.
Use, principal. The main or primary use for which land or structure is intended.
31.72.
Reserved for future use.
31.73.
Yard. A required open space located on the same lot as the principal building, unoccupied and unobstructed from ground to sky except for accessory uses and for tree or [shrubbery.]
ARTICLE IV. - JURISDICTION AND APPLICATION OF REGULATIONS

Sec. 40. - Jurisdiction.
The provisions of this Ordinance pertain to each of the zones herein established or to zones established by an subsequent amendment to this Ordinance. Furthermore, they shall apply to any new lands incorporated into the City of Pearson. All such newly annexed lands, not previously or otherwise zoned in accordance with the Official Pearson Zoning Resolution by the Pearson City Commission, shall be zones by the Pearson City Commission in accordance with the procedures set forth in the AMENDMENTS of this Ordinance.
Sec. 41. - Application of regulations.
In all districts, after the effective date of this Ordinance and subject to the provisions of Article VI, Section 60, Non-Conforming Uses.
(a)
Any new building or other structure, or any tract of land, may be used, and
(b)
The use of any existing building or other structure, or of any tract of land, may be changed, extended or enlarged, and
(c)
Any existing building or other structure may be relocated, enlarged, converted, reconstructed, or structurally altered for any purpose permitted by the regulations for the district in which such building or other structure, or tract of land, is located, and for no other purpose. Such use, change, relocation, enlargement, extension, conversion, reconstruction, or structural alteration shall conform to all regulations of the Ordinance. The requirements set forth in the district regulations for accessory off-street parking spaces and off-street parking spaces and off-street loading facilities shall apply.
ARTICLE V. - ESTABLISHMENT OF DISTRICTS

Sec. 50. - Division in districts.
For the purposes and provisions of the Ordinance, the following Districts are hereby established.
EXPAND
R-1 Residential
R-75MH Residential mobile home
HP Historic preservation
M Medical
O Office
C-1 Commercial
C-2 Highway commercial
IND Industrial park
  Sec. 51. - Incorporation of map.
The boundaries of each district are hereby established as shown on the map entitled "Official Zoning Maps, City of Pearson, Georgia". The Official Zoning map shall be identified by the signature of the Mayor, attested by the City Inspector under the following words: "this is to certify that this is the Official Zoning Map referred to in Section 53 of the Pearson Zoning Ordinance", together with the date of the adoption of this Ordinance. Said map and all explanatory matter thereon accompanies and is hereby made a part of this Ordinance and will hereinafter be referred to as the "Zoning Map".
Sec. 52. - Amendment of map.
If, in accordance with the provisions of the Ordinance, changes are made in district boundaries or other subject matter portrayed on the zoning map, such changes shall be made on the Official Zoning Map promptly after the amendment has been approved by the City Commission. The City Inspector shall have the responsibility of making all changes on the Official Zoning Map. The City Clerk may designate in writing to the Planning Department or such other person as he may deem appropriate to carry out said responsibility. The person or persons who make said changes on the Official Zoning Map shall date and initial the Official Zoning Map when said changes are made. The entry on such City Commission minutes shall identify the location and the zoning district changes (from and to) and shall be so indexed that an inventory can be maintained by date on all zoning district changes made on the Official Zoning map. An amendment to this Ordinance which involves subject matter portrayed on the zoning map shall become effective when such change has been approved by the City Commission.
Sec. 53. - Custody and maintenance of official zoning map.
The City Inspector shall be the Custodian of the Official Zoning Map. The Official Zoning Map shall be kept in the vault of the City of Pearson or at such other safe and prominent place as the City Inspector may determine. When it is necessary in the opinion of the City Inspector to replace the Official Zoning Map because of age, wear and tear or other good and sufficient reason, the City Inspector shall replace the Original Zoning Map with a new Official Zoning Map and shall certify that the new Official Zoning Map is identical to the old Official Zoning Map and that it is accurate. He shall also date and sign said certificate and enter the same on the City Commission minutes and retain the old Official Zoning Map in the records of the City of Pearson. Upon such certification, the new Official Zoning Map shall then become the Official Zoning Map of the city of Pearson.
Sec. 54. - Rules for determining boundaries.
Where uncertainty exists with respect to the boundaries of any of the aforesaid districts as shown on the zoning map, the following rules shall apply.
(a)
Unless otherwise indicated, the district boundaries are indicated as approximately following platted lot lines; center lines of streets, highways, alleys or railroads; center lines of streams, reservoirs, and other bodies of water;
(b)
Where district boundaries are so indicated that they are approximately parallel to the center lines of streets, reservoirs, or other bodies of water, or said lines extended, such district boundaries shall be construed as being parallel thereto and at such distance there from as indicated on the zoning maps. If no distance is given, such dimension shall be determined by the use of the scale shown on said zoning map;
(c)
Where a district boundary line, as appearing on the zoning maps; divides a lot in a single ownership at the time of this enactment, the district requirements for the least restricted portion of such lot shall be deemed to apply to the whole thereof, provided that such extensions shall not include any part of such a lot more than 50 feet beyond the district boundary line.
ARTICLE VI. - GENERAL PROVISIONS

Sec. 60.1. - Change.
Once changed to a conforming use, no building or use of land shall be permitted to revert to a non-conforming use. Change to another non-conforming use is prohibited.
Sec. 60.2. - Abandonment.
Re-establishment of non-conforming use after discontinuance for a period of six (6) months shall be prohibited.
Sec. 60.3. - Restoration.
A non-conforming building may not be structurally altered for continuance as a non-conforming use if the cost of such alteration exceeds fifty (50) percent of its replacement cost less depreciation as estimated by the Tax Assessor. Should the Tax Assessor and the property owner be unable to agree on said cost, the Assessor and the property owner shall select an appraiser and these two appraisers shall select a third; and the three appraisers, acting as an arbitration board, shall by majority decision arrive at a proper value. The expense of employing the three appraisers shall be shared equally by the City and the property owner. Determination of the arbitration board shall be binding upon both parties.
Sec. 60.4. - Extension.
A non-conforming use of building shall not be enlarged or extended, except a non-conforming building may be added to, provided such addition meets other zoning setback requirements of this Ordinance. Front yard requirements must be met on lots fronting major and collector streets as shown on the Official Zoning Map, as amended.
Sec. 60.5. - Cessation of certain non-conforming uses.
All non conforming uses, as defined in Section 606, shall be discontinued, and/or shall be torn down, altered or otherwise made to conform with the provisions of this Ordinance within the following periods of time after said Ordinance is enacted into law:
(a)
Two (2) years: Auto wrecking, salvage and junkyards and other uses of land;
(b)
Three (3) years: Signs and outdoor advertising structures;
(c)
Five (5) years: Mobile homes;
(d)
Thirty-five (35) years: Frame, block or light metal structures and all other uses.
The status of non-conformity shall commence on the date of enactment of these regulations, whether or not notice is sent by the Building Official or received by the affected owner.
The date that a non-conforming use must either comply or cease to exist shall be measured from the date of enactment of these regulation and shall be observed regardless of whether notice of non-conformity is sent by the Building Official or received by the owner.
Sec. 60.6. - Lot of record.
In any district in which single-family dwellings are permitted, not withstanding limitations proposed by other provisions of these regulations, a single-family dwelling and customary accessory buildings may be erected on any single lot of record at the effective date of adoption or amendment of these regulations, provided that all yard dimensions and all requirements other than those specifying lot area or width, or both, shall conform to the regulations of the district in which such lot is located. Such lot must be in separate ownership and not of continuous frontage with other lots in the same ownership.
Sec. 60.7. - Hardship permission.
When (a) a non-conforming use is a mobile home used only for residential purposes located in a zoning district where mobile homes for residential purposes located in a zoning district where mobile homes for residential purposes are not permitted (i.e., is non-conforming use), and (b) the applicant is mentally or physically incapacitated, and (c) the applicant seeks to replace the existing mobile home with another mobile home; the Commission of the City of Pearson in its discretion, may permit such replacement.
Any hardship permission granted hereunder would not be transferable and upon the expiration of sixty (60) days after the earlier of the death of applicant or the applicant vacating the premises, the hardship permission would terminate without further action by the Commission.
"Vacating the Premises" shall occur when the applicant establishes another residency or ceases to occupy the mobile home as his residence.
Applicant under this provision shall file his/her application with the Building Official of the City of Pearson. The Building Official shall deliver the application to the Mayor.
Sec. 60.71. - Location of accessory uses on zoning lot.
A permitted accessory structure or use shall not be located:
(a)
within any required front or side yard;
(b)
within the front eight (8) feet of any required rear yard;
(c)
within five (5) feet of any other accessory structure or use on the same lot; or
(d)
less than two and one-half (2½) feet from any property line; nor closer to the right-of-way line of a side street than the set-back distance required for the main structure on the same lot.
Sec. [61a]. - Street access.
No building shall hereafter be erected, constructed, moved or relocated on a lot not located on a publicly accepted street with a right-of-way of not less than 30 feet.
Editor's note— This section was numbered as 61, under the zoning ordinance as adopted by the city council. It has been designated here as 61a, at the discretion of the editor, in order to differentiate it from another section in the zoning ordinance which had been inadvertently given the same section number when the ordinance was initially adopted.
Sec. [62a]. - Principal use of structure.
There shall be (1) principal structure with one (1) principal use permitted on one (1) zoning lot.
Editor's note— This section was numbered as 62, under the zoning ordinance as adopted by the city council. It has been designated here as 62a, at the discretion of the editor, in order to differentiate it from another section in the zoning ordinance which had been inadvertently given the same section number when the ordinance was initially adopted.
Sec. [63a]. - Classification of streets.
All public streets are hereby classified as being either major streets, collector streets, or minor streets. The classification of each public street is designated on the zoning maps.
Editor's note— This section was numbered as 63, under the zoning ordinance as adopted by the city council. It has been designated here as 63a, at the discretion of the editor, in order to differentiate it from another section in the zoning ordinance which had been inadvertently given the same section number when the ordinance was initially adopted.
Sec. [64a]. - Adjoining and vacant lots of records.
If two or more adjoining or vacant lots with continuous frontage are in a single ownership at any time after the adoption of these regulations, and such lots individually are less than the lot width requirements for the zone in which they are located, such groups of lots shall be considered as a single lot or several lots of minimum permitted size and the lot or lots in one ownership shall be subject to the requirements of these regulations.
Editor's note— This section was numbered as 64, under the zoning ordinance as adopted by the city council. It has been designated here as 64a, at the discretion of the editor, in order to differentiate it from another section in the zoning ordinance which had been inadvertently given the same section number when the ordinance was initially adopted.
Sec. [65a]. - Front yard requirements.
The setback requirements for structures shall not apply to any lot where the average setback on developed lots located wholly or in part within 200 feet on each side of such lot and within the block and zoning district and fronting on the same street as such lot is less than the minimum required setback. In such cases, the setback on such a lot may be less than the required setback but not less than the average of the existing setbacks on the adjacent developed lots. However, in no case shall setbacks be less than 10 feet.
Editor's note— This section was numbered as 65, under the zoning ordinance as adopted by the city council. It has been designated here as 65a, at the discretion of the editor, in order to differentiate it from another section in the zoning ordinance which had been inadvertently given the same section number when the ordinance was initially adopted.
Sec. [66a]. - Non-conforming uses.
Any lawfully existing use of land, building or structure which is not in conformances with the provisions of these regulations upon their enactment into law and/or any building or structure where actual construction was lawfully begun prior to the effective date of adoption of these regulations shall be deemed to be a non-conforming use. Such use may be continued subject to the following conditions.
Editor's note— This section was numbered as 66, under the zoning ordinance as adopted by the city council. It has been designated here as 66a, at the discretion of the editor, in order to differentiate it from another section in the zoning ordinance which had been inadvertently given the same section number when the ordinance was initially adopted.
Sec. [61b]. - Buffer strips.
61.1.
Commercial and Industrial Uses. Whenever any commercial or industrial use adjoins a residential district, a continuous planted buffer strip or brick, concrete block, solid wood wall or chain link fence shall be completed and properly maintained within the regular setback. Such buffer strip shall be composed of and maintained with healthy plants which possess growth characteristics of such a nature so as to provide within five (5) years, a planting screen not less than 5 feet wide and not less than 6 feet high. Such brick, concrete wall, or solid wood wall or chain link fence shall be constructed, it shall have slats inserted within the fence, so as to be permanent in nature, or lattice work, permanent in nature, and of such a nature so that the chain link fence screens and blocks the view between the commercial or industrial use and the adjoining residential district, and also blocks the view between the residential district and the adjoining commercial use.
61.2.
Off-Street Loading and Parking Areas. When situated adjacent to residential property, an off-street lading area or an off-street parking area for five or more automobiles shall be separated from the adjoining residential property be a solid wall or continuous planted buffer strip as specified in section 61.1 [61b.1] above.
61.3.
Multi-Family Uses. A planted strip or solid wood or masonry wall shall be required along any perimeter lot line or portion thereof in order to provide privacy and separation between adjoining properties. Properties within such buffer areas may be included within the lot area for density lot coverage purposes. Such planted screen shall be not less than 3 feet wide and not less than 3 feet high.
61.4.
Curb Cut and Access Points. Ingress and egress openings in concrete, asphalt, rock or other street curbing provisions, commonly referred to as "curb cuts", as well as other means of vehicular access to and from private property, shall be regulated in the several zoning districts established by this Ordinance in accordance with the following requirements:
61.4A.
Size and Spacing or Curb Cuts and Other Access Points. In no case shall a curb cut or other access point be less than twelve (12) feet for residential uses and twenty (20) feet for all other uses nor more than forty (40) feet in width. No use shall be permitted more than two (2) curb cuts or other access points per street, nor shall any two (2) curb cuts be closer than twenty (20) from each other except in residential zoning districts.
61.4B.
Location of Curb Cuts and Other Access Points. No curb cut or other access points shall be permitted along the following classified streets closer to the inter- section of said street right -of-way lines than the following distances: twenty (20) feet for minor streets; forty (40) feet for collector streets; sixty (60) feet for major and minor arterials; and two hundred (200) feet for controlled access highways. However, if the property configuration is such that these standards cannot be met, then a curb cut or access point may be allowed provided a traffic hazard is not created.
61.4C.
Permits for Access onto State Owned Highway Right-of-Way. A permit must be obtained from the State Highway Department before curb cuts or any other point of access shall be authorized onto State owned highway rights-of-way from abutting property.
Editor's note— This section was numbered as 61, under the zoning ordinance as adopted by the city council. It has been designated here as 61b, at the discretion of the editor, in order to differentiate it from another section in the zoning ordinance which had been inadvertently given the same section number when the ordinance was initially adopted.
Sec. [62b]. - Vision clearance at street intersection.
Except in the C-1 Commercial District, no fences, wall, terrace, sign, shrubbery, planting, or other obstruction or object capable of obstructing driver vision between the heights of three (3) feet and ten (10) feet above the finished street level shall be permitted on a corner lot within the triangular area formed by the intersection of the street right-of-way lines (or such lines extended in case of a rounded corner) which bound said lot and a line connecting a point on each right-of-way line which is 25 feet from the point of intersection.
Editor's note— This section was numbered as 62, under the zoning ordinance as adopted by the city council. It has been designated here as 62b, at the discretion of the editor, in order to differentiate it from another section in the zoning ordinance which had been inadvertently given the same section number when the ordinance was initially adopted.
Sec. [63b]. - Vision clearance at private roadway and entrances intersecting with public streets.
Except in the C-1 Commercial District, no fence, wall, hedge or other planting, or sign forming a material impediment to the visibility between the heights of three (3) and ten (10) feet above finished street level shall be erected, planted, placed or maintained within twenty-five (25) feet of the intersection of a public street with any private roadway or drive.
Editor's note— This section was numbered as 63, under the zoning ordinance as adopted by the city council. It has been designated here as 63b, at the discretion of the editor, in order to differentiate it from another section in the zoning ordinance which had been inadvertently given the same section number when the ordinance was initially adopted.
Sec. [64b]. - Exception to height limits.
The height limits herein shall not apply to church spires, belfries, cupolas, and domes not intended for human occupancy; monuments, water towers, observation towers, chimneys, smokestacks, conveyors, flagpoles, masts and antennae, and roof signs provided that evidence is presented from appropriate authorities to the effect that such building or structure will not interfere with any airport approach zones or flight patterns.
Editor's note— This section was numbered as 64, under the zoning ordinance as adopted by the city council. It has been designated here as 64b, at the discretion of the editor, in order to differentiate it from another section in the zoning ordinance which had been inadvertently given the same section number when the ordinance was initially adopted.
Sec. [65b]. - Minimum lot sizes.
As required by these regulations, minimum lot sizes for residential development assume the provision of public services. Lots served by private water and/or sewer lines shall meet the standards of the City of Pearson.
Editor's note— This section was numbered as 65, under the zoning ordinance as adopted by the city council. It has been designated here as 65b, at the discretion of the editor, in order to differentiate it from another section in the zoning ordinance which had been inadvertently given the same section number when the ordinance was initially adopted.
Sec. [66b]. - Night lighting.
Where exterior night lighting is required by any use, the location of the lights shall be so arranged that within 100 feet of any street the direct light rays there from shall not be directed into the eyes of the passing motorist. Furthermore, no exterior night lighting shall be permitted to shine directly into a residential, office or medical district when such lights are located less than 300 feet from such district.
Editor's note— This section was numbered as 66, under the zoning ordinance as adopted by the city council. It has been designated here as 66b, at the discretion of the editor, in order to differentiate it from another section in the zoning ordinance which had been inadvertently given the same section number when the ordinance was initially adopted.
Sec. 67. - Environmental protection.
All uses must satisfactorily comply with the requirements of the Environmental Protection Division, Georgia Department of Natural Resources and the Atkinson County Board of Health regarding the protection of the environment from pollution by waste materials.
Sec. 68. - Off-street parking requirements.
Off-street automobile parking shall be required according to the following specifications.
68.1.
General Requirements. Areas suitable for parking or storing automobiles in off-street locations shall hereinafter be required in all zoning districts at the time of the initial construction of any principal buildings, when a structural alteration or other change in a principal building produces an increase in dwelling units, guest rooms, floor area, seating or bed capacity, or when a conversion in use occurs.
(a)
Except in C-1 Commercial District, where off-street parking is not required except for residential uses and private school uses.
68.2.
Number of Spaces Required.
(a)
One family dwellings: 2 spaces
(b)
Two-family dwellings: 2 spaces per dwelling unit
(c)
Multi-family dwellings: 2 space per dwelling unit
(d)
Group dwellings: 1 space for each 2 bedrooms
(e)
Tourist homes, boarding houses, and motels: 2.5 spaces for each bedroom or suite plus one space for the manager/owner
(f)
Churches, theaters, restaurants, night clubs and other places of public and semi-public assembly: 1 space for each four (4) seats, as based on estimated total seating capacity
(g)
Places of amusement or public and semi-public assembly without fixed seats: 2 space for each two hundred (200) square feet of floor space provided for use in the main assembly room
(h)
Hotels, excluding motels: 1 space for each three (3) guest rooms, plus one space for each five (5) employees
(i)
Hospitals, nursing homes, sanitariums, homes for the aged, care homes, and similar institutions: 1 space for each two (2) beds (exclusive of bassinets) plus one space for each staff doctor, plus one space for each one (1) regular employee at maximum employment on a single shift
(j)
Offices and Clinics for Medical and Dental: One (1) space for each 150 space feet of total floor area, plus 1space for each two (2) employees
(k)
Other offices including banks and governmental establishments: 1 space for each 300 square feet of total floor area plus 1 space for each three (3) employees
(l)
Bowling alleys: 5 spaces for each alley
(m)
Service repair establishments, (except those specifically mentioned in this subsection). hardware, building supply and auto parts stores: 1 space for each 250 square feet of floor area
(n)
Wholesale and industrial establishments, including lumber, brick, coal, junk and supply yards: 1 space for each two (2) employees at maximum employment on a single shift, plus sufficient space to park or store all company-owned or leased motor vehicles
(o)
Gas Station, Full Serve: 1 space for each gas pump, plus two spaces for each grease rack, washing stall or similar facility, plus one space for each 1.5 employees per largest working shift.
(p)
Automobile service stations: Four (4) spaces for each grease rack, washing stall or similar facility
(q)
Gas Station, Self Serve: 1 space for each fuel pump. In addition, 1 parking space shall be provided for each 100 square feet of gross floor area in the cashier/office area. Such facility shall provide no less than 3 parking spaces with its maneuvering area not in conflict with vehicles being fueled or awaiting fuel
(r)
Convenience Store: 1 space for each 200 square feet of gross floor area, plus one space for each employee
(s)
Car Wash, Full Serve: 2 stacking spaces for each washing stall/module plus 1 space for each employee
(t)
Car Wash, Self Serve: 2 stacking spaces for each washing stall/module plus one dry space for each washing stall, plus 1 space for each employee
(u)
Automobile, farm equipment, machinery and furniture sales and repair establishments: 1 space for each two (2) employees at maximum employment on a single shift, plus one space for each 400 square feet of total floor area
(v)
Mortuaries and or funeral homes: 2 space for each 100 square feet of floor area used for assembly purposes, plus sufficient space to park or store all company-owned or leased motor vehicles
(w)
Planned Shopped Centers and retail business not otherwise specifically mentioned in this subsection:; Less than 15,000 net square feet: 5 spaces per 1,000 net square feet (minimum); 4.5 spaces for 1,000 net square feet (maximum). Between 15,000 and 400,000 net square feet: 4 spaces per 1,000 net square feet (minimum); 5 spaces per 1,000 net square feet (maximum). More than 600,000 net square feet: 5 spaces per 1,000 new square feet (minimum and maximum)
(x)
Transportation terminal facilities, including airports, railroad stations, bus depots and truck terminals: 1 space for each 100 square feet of public waiting room floor area, plus one space for each two (2) regular employees, plus sufficient space to park, store, load or unload all commercial motor vehicles incidental to the facility
(y)
Schools, including both public and private educational institutions: 1 space for each two (2) staff members or employees, plus additional space for places of public assembly in accordance with the provisions of Subsection 608.2(f)
(z)
Mobile home parks: 1 space for each mobile home dwelling unit, plus one space for each two (2) regular park employees
(aa)
Flea Markets: 1 space for each two hundred-fifty (250) square feet of total floor (sales) area
(bb)
Taxi cab/stand company: One space per each employee on the largest working shift, plus one space per taxi, except when designated cab stands are licensed (by the City) at a transportation origination and delivery points such as hotels, restaurants and other such facilities, when such parking reservation is agreed to by adjoining owners.
68.3.
Amount of Area Required for Each Parking Space. Including aisles, entrances and exits, each required off-street parking area, lot or other facility shall contain a minimum of three hundred fifty (350) square feet of space for each automobile to be accommodated, except that this shall not apply to one- and two- family dwellings.
68.4.
Combination of Uses on One Lot. If there are combinations of uses on a single lot, such as a restaurant within or adjacent to a motel, such uses shall be computed separately according to the individual requirements of each.
68.5.
Location of Off-Street Parking Areas. Required off-street parking areas for one and two-family residences shall be located on the same lot as principal building to be served. Under unusual circumstances, and hardship, parking areas for other permitted uses may be located off-site provided that the parking area is not more than four hundred (400) feet from the premises of the principal building or use to be served by such areas, and provided that the owner or owners of said off-site parking areas relinquish all development rights over this property until such time that parking space is provided elsewhere.
68.6.
Required barriers. When off-street parking spaces or access aisles are located adjacent to the right-of-way line of a public street or alley, a concrete or asphalt curb measuring six (6) inches in height shall be placed along the edge of the parking space or access aisle for the purpose of preventing vehicle encroachment onto the street or alley right-of-way.
68.7.
Off-Street Parking in Residential Districts.
A lot which is zoned R-1, R-75MH shall not be used as a private drive or private street giving vehicle access to any commercial, office or industrial building.
Such residential zoned lot shall not be used as a private drive or street giving vehicle access to any parking lot that has been provided for a commercial, office or industrial building.
68.8.
Off-Street Parking Development Regulations. Off-street parking areas shall have direct access to a street or alley; and they shall be subject to the following requirements:
(a)
The construction of all parking lots and/or driveways, shall be in accordance with the provisions of these regulations and such construction shall be approved by the Engineering Department of the City of Pearson, Georgia before actual use of the property as a parking lot and/or driveway. Before commencing construction, plans for the development of any parking lot and/or driveway must be submitted in triplicate to the Building Department of the City of Pearson and must be prepared as a scale of not less than fifty (50) feet equals one (1) inch indicated existing and proposed grades, drainage, water mains and sewers, surfacing and base materials to be used and the general layout of the proposed parking lot and/or driveway.
(b)
All such parking lots and driveways shall be hard-surfaced asphalt or concrete pavement (at the property owner's discretion) and shall be graded and drained as to dispose of surface water which might accumulate within or dispose of surface water which might accumulate within or upon such area. No surface water from such parking lot or driveway shall be permitted to drain into adjoining private property.
(c)
The construction of all driveways to single-family dwellings, that connect to any street which is paved or slated to be paved under the current published paving list or lists as approved by the Pearson City Commission (as of the time of construction) shall be required to be hard-surfaced (asphalt or concrete pavement at the discretion of the property owner) and to meet a curb cut or other access point width of not less than twelve (12) feet an a depth of four (4) inches of such hard-surface material. Such driveway shall be a minimum width of ten (10) feet and shall extend from the street edge or curb to the front walk adjoining the house, or garage opening, or hard-surfaced parking area or to the wall of the house, whichever is least in distance. All residences located on lots facing a paved major or collector public street, as designated in the current Pearson Major Street and Highway Plan, shall have driveways and/or parking area designed so as to allow minimum maneuvering space for the front of vehicles to enter the street first from such driveway access. Residential driveways located on unpaved street which are not located in the current published paving list or lists as approved by the Pearson City Commission (as of the time of construction) do not have to be hard surfaced. All other residential driveways shall be hard-surfaced in accordance with the terms and conditions of the Pearson Zoning Ordinance and the Code of the City of Pearson, Georgia.
(d)
All illumination for or on such parking lots shall be deflected away from residential areas and shall be installed in such manner as to allow the reduction of the amount of light in other than normal parking hours each day.
(e)
Side yards shall be maintained for a space of not less than ten (10) feet between the side lot lines of adjoining residential lots and the parking area. The depth of the front yard or setback line from the street as established for houses in any block in any given residential area shall be continued and made applicable to parking space in such residential and it shall be unlawful to use the space between such setback line and the sidewalk for the parking of motor vehicles; provided, however, that the barrier specified in Section 68.6 shall be located on the setback line as herein required.
(f)
Whenever such parking area adjoins residential property and/or a residential street or alley, a buffer strip shall be erected and maintained between the required yard space and the area to be used for parking in accordance with Section 610.2.
(g)
In all cases where such parking lots abut public sidewalks, concrete curbing, at least six (6) inches high, set end to end, shall be placed so that a motor vehicle cannot be driven or parked with any part thereof extending within one (1) foot of a public sidewalk. In all cases where necessary for the protection of the public and the adjoining properties, streets and sidewalks, such curbs as described above shall be installed.
Sec. 69. - Off-street loading and unloading area requirements.
Areas suitable for loading and unloading motor vehicles in off-street locations shall hereafter be required at the time of the initial construction of any building or structure used or arranged to be used for commercial, industrial, governmental or multi-family residential purposes. Such off-street loading areas shall have access to a public alley or street and shall be provided and maintained in accordance with the following requirements, the computation of which shall not be included in the off-street parking requirements. In a C-1, Commercial District, off-street loading space is not required for retail business uses.
69.1.
Number of spaces required.
(a)
Retail business uses with less than 2,000 square feet in total floor area: None.
(b)
Retail business uses with 2,000 to 20,000 square feet in total floor area: one (1) space.
(c)
Wholesale, industrial, governmental and institutional uses, including public assembly places, hospitals and educational institutions shall provide one (1) space for the first 20,000 square feet of total floor area. For anything in excess of 20,000 square feet, such uses shall provide additional loading spaces according to the following schedule:
EXPAND
Square Feet No. of Spaces
20,000 - 99,9999 One (1) space for each 10,000 square feet
100,000 - 159,999 One (1) space for each 20,000 square feet
160,000 - 239,999 One (1) space for each 40,000 square feet
240,000 - 359,999 One (1) space for each 60,000 square feet
For each additional 100,000 or fraction thereof One (1) additional space
  (d)
Multi-family residences with less than ten (10) dwelling units: None.
(e)
Multi-family residences with 10 to 30 dwelling units: One (1) space.
(f)
Multi-family residences with thirty (30 dwelling units or fraction thereof: One (1) space for each thirty (30) dwelling units or fraction thereof.
69.2.
Amount of Area Required for Each Loading Space. Each off-street loading and unloading space required by the provisions of this Ordinance shall be at least ten (10) feet in width, fifty (50) feet lone and fourteen (14) feet high. Such space shall be clear and free of obstructions at all times.
69.3.
Location of Off-Street Loading Areas. Required off-street loading and unloading areas shall in all cases be located on the same lot or parcel of land as the structure they are intended to serve. In no case shall the required off-street loading space be considered as part of the area provided to satisfied off-street parking requirements as listed herein.
69.4.
Adequacy of Loading Area. All uses, whether specified in this Ordinance or not, shall provide off-street loading areas sufficient for their requirements. Such space shall be adequate so that no vehicle being loaded or unloaded in connection with normal operations shall stand in or project into a public street, walk, alley or way.
69[.5].
Off-Street Loading and Unloading Area Development Regulations. Off-street loading and unloading areas shall have direct access to a street or alley; and they shall be subject to the following requirements:
(a)
The construction of any off-street loading or unloading area shall be in accordance with the provisions of these regulations and such construction shall be approved by the Engineering Department before actual use of the property as a loading or unloading area. Plans for the development of any loading or unloading area must be submitted in triplicate to the Building Department prepared as a scale of not less than fifty (50) feet equals one (1) inch and indicated existing and proposed grades, drainage, water mains and sewers surfacing and base materials to be used and the general layout of the proposed loading or unloading area.
(b)
All such loading or unloading areas shall be hard-surfaced with a pavement having an asphalt or concrete payment, and shall be graded and drained so as to dispose of surface water which might accumulate within or upon such area. No surface water from such area shall be permitted to drain into adjoining private property.
(c)
All illumination for or on such loading or unloading areas shall be deflected away from residential areas and shall be installed in such a manner as to allow the reduction of the amount of light in other than normal business hours each day.
(d)
Side yards shall be maintained for a space of not less than ten (10) feet between the side lot lines of adjoining residential lots and the loading or unloading area. The depth of the front yard or setback line from the street as established for houses in any block in any given residential area shall be continued and made applicable to loading or unloading areas between such residential area and it shall be unlawful to use the space between such setback line and the sidewalk for parking, loading or unloading areas for motor vehicles; provided, however, that the barrier specified in Section 68.8 (e) shall be located on the setback line as herein required.
(e)
Whenever such loading or unloading area adjoins residential property and/or a residential street or alley, a buffer strip shall be erected and maintained between the required yard space and the area to be used for loading or unloading in accordance with Section 61.2 [61b.2]. Location of said buffer facing a residential street shall be determined with due regard to side yard and building setback requirements adjoining the residential district as may be required in the particular commercial office or industrial zoning manner that the first twelve (12) feet back from the street shall be four (4) feet in height, and the balance shall be six (6) as indicated above. Bumper guards of a type described in Section 68.8 (f) shall be provided to prevent vehicles striking said buffer.
(f)
In all cases where such loading or unloading areas abut public sidewalks, concrete curbing, at least six (6) inches high, set end to end, shall be placed so that a motor vehicle cannot be driven or parked with any part thereof extending within one (1) foot of a public sidewalk. In all cases where necessary for the protection of the public and the adjoining properties, streets and sidewalks, such curbs as described above shall be installed.
[Sec. 69a. - Residential occupancy limitation.]
This ordinance shall apply to all residential structures located in the City of Pearson, Georgia.
The City of Pearson finds that controlling the occupancy limitations of residential properties within the City is necessary to maintain the quality of life of its citizens.
The City further finds that it is necessary to adopt this ordinance so as to accomplish the following purposes:
(1)
Protecting, promoting and improving the public health, safety, comfort, order, appearance, convenience, morals, and general welfare.
(2)
Conserving property values, buildings, resources, and protecting landowners from adverse impacts of overcrowding.
(3)
Protecting the character and maintaining residential, recreation and public areas.
(4)
Promoting the orderly development of residential areas.
(5)
Controlling and regulating the growth of the City and balancing the interest of the general public in the city and that of the individual property owner.
The number of persons occupying a residential property shall not exceed one person per 200 square feet.
The number of persons occupying a dwelling unit shall not create conditions that in the opinion of the City Code Official endanger the life, health, safety or welfare of the occupants.
(Ord. No. 2015-102, 8-11-2015)
ARTICLE VII. - REQUIREMENTS BY DISTRICTS

Sec. 70. - RM-75MH Residential Manufactured Housing District.
70.1.
Intent of District. The RM-75 Residential Manufactured Housing District is established to provide suitable locations for dwellings which satisfy Pearson Zoning Ordinance and for any other dwelling suitable for Residential Districts. The RM-75 Residential Manufactured Housing District is further designed to accomplish the following purposes:
(a)
To provide sufficient space in appropriate locations for residential development to meet the housing needs of the present and anticipated population;
(b)
To protect residential areas from hazardous and offensive influences harmful to the health, morals or safety of the City or its residents;
(c)
To protect residential areas from heavy traffic or through traffic, by regulating the size of buildings in relation to the land around them, and by providing for open space for off-street parking;
(d)
To provide space for both public and private community facilities which Serve the needs of nearby residents and which generally perform their Functions more effectively in a residential environment;
(e)
To promote the most desirable use of land in accordance with a comprehensive plan;
(f)
To promote stable residential development;
(g)
To conserve the value of land and buildings;
(h)
To promote freedom of architectural design, in order to encourage the development of more attractive and economic building forms;
(i)
To encourage to discontinuance of existing uses that would not be permitted as new uses under the provisions of this article;
(j)
To encourage the development of vacant land for attractive diversified residential projects;
(k)
To provide a zoning district for manufactured housing dwellings meeting the minimum standards set forth of this Ordinance.
70.1(A).
Requirements and Conditions.
A.
Mobile homes, factory built, or manufactured housing unit meeting the following requirements and conditions:
(1)
A permit must be obtained from the City prior to moving a unit into or out of the City. Said permit shall be good for a period of forty-five (45) days from the date of issuance;
(2)
All units must be properly skirted in one of the following manners: Stucco finished concrete block, painted concrete block, brick, stucco finished metal lath. Vinyl skirting specifically designed for manufactured housing/mobile homes; further subject to such written standards as may be established by the building official from time to time. The under skirting must be installed and in place in such a manner so that the towing attachments and similar devices for the housing unit shall not be visible;
(3)
All units must satisfy applicable Housing and Building Codes prior to occupancy;
(4)
All electrical work must be performed by a Georgia State licensed electrical contractor and inspected by the city Building Inspectors;
(5)
Sewer line installation and hook-up must be done by a plumber licensed pursuant to Georgia law and the Code of the City of Pearson and inspected by the City Building Inspectors;
(6)
Installation of heating and air units must be performed by a mechanical contractor licensed by the State of Georgia and inspected by the City Building Inspectors;
(7)
Each unit shall have:
(a)
Each entrance and exit door shall have a platform, landing, porch or stoop that has a minimum size of 4 feet by 4 feet exclusive of Steps and shall be complete with hand rail and [porch rail.]
(Ord. of 2-14-2006)
70.2.
Permitted Uses.
(a)
Single-family, duplex and multi-family (including apartments and town Houses) dwellings.
Existing single-family and duplex dwellings shall not be converted, or otherwise changed to multi-family (3 or more) dwellings.
New multi-family dwellings developed shall meet current zoning, building and other development code requirements.
(b)
Public elementary, junior high and senior high level schools.
(c)
Private schools offering curricula substantially the same as that offered by public schools.
(d)
Public libraries, public recreation centers and other public facilities.
(e)
Non-commercial parks, playgrounds and other outdoor recreation activities and their related facilities.
(f)
Non-commercial horticulture or agriculture, but not including the keeping of farm animals or poultry.
(g)
Uses or structures, accessory to the other uses set forth in this amendment.
(h)
Home Occupations.
(i)
Churches, synagogues, temples and other places of worship provided that such uses are located on a lot fronting a major or collector street as designated on the Zoning Map and provided further that no structure housing church activities are located less than fifty (50) feet from a residential property line.
(j)
Public utility substations or sub-installations, provided that; (1) such uses are enclosed by a solid or chain-link fence or wall at least six (6) feet in height above finish grade if needed to give protection against hazardous equipment; (2) there is no office nor is there storage of vehicles, equipment or construction materials on the premises; and (3) landscaped buffer strip not less than five (5) feet in width is planted and suitably maintained at the periphery of the containing facilities.
(k)
Nurseries (pre-school nurseries, dap nurseries, day care centers and similar uses) provided that such facilities conform with the requirements of the Georgia State Board of Health and the Atkinson County Health Department and provided that such play area is fenced to a minimum height of four (4) feet and that no building is less than thirty (30) feet from a residential property line.
(l)
Cemeteries, provided that such uses; (1) front a major street or a collector street; (20) have a ten (10) foot planted buffer strip around its entire perimeter which is kept free of any other use, except access; (3) include no crematorium.
70.3.
Lot and Yard Requirements for Manufactured Housing.
Single-Family and Duplex Residential Uses
(a)
Minimum Lot Area per Dwelling Unit (Square Feet):
EXPAND
Single-Family 9,000
Duplex 5,500
  (b)
Minimum Lot Width:
EXPAND
Single-Family 105 ft.
Duplex 105 ft.
  (c)
Minimum Front Yard. The front wall of the main structure shall be set back from the right-of-way of the street as follows:
EXPAND
Major Street 40 ft.
Collector Street 40 ft.
Minor Street 35 ft.
  (d)
Minimum Side Yard on Street. The side wall of the main structure shall be set back from the right-of-way lane of the street as follows:
EXPAND
Major Street 20 ft.
Collector Street 20 ft.
Minor Street 20 ft.
  (e)
Side Yard Not on Street. The side wall of the main structure shall be set back from the adjacent property line as follows:
EXPAND
Single Family
Least Dimension 8 ft.
Both Sides 20 ft.
  (f)
Rear Yards. The rear wall of the main structure shall be set back from the rear property line as follows: 25 ft.
(g)
Maximum Height. The maximum height for all uses shall be 35 feet, unless approved by the Pearson Fire Department.
(h)
Floor Area Ratio. In all residential districts, maximum floor area ratio shall not exceed thirty-five (35) percent, except as provided for in town houses.
(Ord. of 5-11-2004)
70.4.
Requirements for Multi-Family Residential Uses.
(a)
Single Building Development. One principal multi-family residential building is permitted on one (1) zoning lot in accordance with the following standards:
(1)
Minimum Lot Area per Dwelling Unit (Square Feet):
EXPAND
Multi-family 2,900
  (2)
Minimum Lot Width for Dwellings:
EXPAND
Multi-family 115 ft.
  (3)
Minimum Front Yard. The front wall of the main structure shall be set back from the right-of-way of the street as follows*:
EXPAND
Major Street 40 ft.
Collector Street 40 ft.
Minor Street 35 ft.
  *See Section 618 Special Building Setbacks for other requirements.
(4)
Minimum Side Yard on Street. The side wall of the main structure shall be set back from the right-of-way line of the street as follows:
EXPAND
Major Street 20 ft.
Collector Street 20 ft.
Minor Street 20 ft.
  (5)
Side Yard Not on Street. The side wall of the main structure shall be set back from the adjacent property line as follows:
EXPAND
Multi-family
Least Dimension 15 ft.
Both Sides 35 ft.
  (6)
Rear Yard. The rear wall of the main structure shall be set back from the rear property line as follows: 25 ft.
(7)
Maximum Height. The maximum height for all uses shall be 35 feet, unless approved by the Pearson Fire Department.
(8)
Floor Area Ratio. Maximum floor area shall not exceed thirty-five percent (35%) of the zoning lot except as provided for in townhouses.
(b)
Group Building Development. Two or more principal multiple family residential buildings on one or more contiguous lots are permitted in accordance with the following standards:
(1)
Lot Size and Setback Requirement: All buildings and structures established as a part of a group building development shall comply with the lot area, size, floor area ratio and setbacks according to zoning.
(2)
Separation of Buildings: All residential buildings established as part of a group building development shall be not less than twenty (20) feet apart.
(3)
Street Access: Any building established as a part of a group development which cannot be served from an abutting street shall be made accessible to vehicles by a paved driveway having a roadbed width of not less than twenty (20) feet, exclusive of parking spaces.
(4)
Buffers: Within the above exterior rear and side setback requirements, a planted buffer shall be required. Property within such buffer areas may be included with the lot area for density lot coverage purposes.
(c)
Townhouses. Townhouses are permitted provided that:
(1)
Not more than ten (10) nor fewer than three (3) contiguous townhouses shall be built in a row with approximately the same but staggered front line, except units on corner lots may face either street;
(2)
Minimum width for the portion of the lot on which the townhouse is to be constructed shall be eighteen (18) feet, but the minimum average width of a group of five (5) or more units shall be twenty (20) feet;
(3)
Lot area shall average no less than 2,500 square feet, and the minimum of any single lot shall be 2,000 square feet;
(4)
Separation Requirements. No portion of a townhouse or accessory structure in or related to one group of contiguous townhouses shall be closer than twenty (20) feet to any portion of a townhouse or accessory structure related to another group, or to any building outside the townhouse area;
(5)
Yards. The nearest point of each building shall be at least twenty (20) feet from the nearest right-of-way line of abutting streets and at least ten (10) feet from all other property lines adjacent to the townhouse complex. Each townhouse shall have on its own lot one rear or side yard, private or reasonably secluded from view from streets and from neighboring property. Such yard shall not be used for any accessory building. Front and rear yard setbacks shall be the same as the zone in which such townhouse development is located.
(6)
Grouped Parking Facilities. Insofar as practicable, off-street parking facilities shall be grouped in bays, either adjacent to streets or in the interior blocks.
(7)
Open Space. In all townhouse projects where more than ten (10) units are to be constructed, a landscaped common area amounting to at least ten percent (10%) of a single townhouse project area shall be provided on the same or adjacent block. No building, parking, storage or other use shall be made of this open space.
(8)
Buffers. Within the above exterior rear and side setbacks requirements, planted buffer shall be required. Property within such buffer areas may be included within the lot area for density lot coverage purposes.
70.5.
Requirements for Non-Residential Uses.
(a)
Minimum Lot Area: 12,000 square feet.
(b)
Minimum Lot Width: 100 feet.
(c)
Minimum Front Yard. The front wall of the main structure shall be set back from the right-of-way line of the street as follows:
EXPAND
Major Street 40 feet
Collector Street 40 feet
Minor Street 35 feet
  (d)
Minimum Side Yard on Street. The side wall of the main structure shall be set back from The right-of-way line of the streets as follows:
EXPAND
Major Street 20 feet
Collector Street 20 feet
Minor Street 20 feet
  (e)
Side Yard Not on Street. The side wall of the main structure shall be set back at least twenty (20) feet from the side property line. The combined area of both side yards shall be at least forty-five (45) feet.
(f)
Minimum Rear Yard. The rear wall of the main structure shall be set back at least twenty five (25) feet from the rear property line.
(g)
Minimum Height. No structure shall exceed sixty (60) feet in height except upon the approval of the City of Pearson Fire Department.
(h)
Planted Buffer. A planted-buffer strip is required within setbacks adjoining residential Uses and meeting the requirements of zoning.
(i)
Floor Area Ratio. Maximum floor area ratio shall not exceed thirty-five (35) percent of the zoning lot.
70.6.
Standard Requirements for Manufactured Housing.
Each manufactured housing dwelling to be placed in the RM-75MH district, must comply with the following requirements and conditions:
(a)
A parking permit must be obtained from the City prior to placing or moving The unit onto the property; (the fee for such permit will be determined by City Commission and on file in the City Clerk's office);
(b)
All units must front the street on which they are addressed;
(c)
All footings and foundations must be inspected by the Building Inspectors after the Placement of the unit; units must be anchored at time of setup and before occupancy.
(d)
All units must be properly skirted in one of the following manners: stucco finished Concrete block, painted concrete block, brick, stucco-finished metal lath and vinyl Skirting specifically designed for manufactured housing/mobile homes; further subject To such written standards as may be established by the building official from time to time;
(e)
Units must be free of all conditions not in conformity to applicable housing and health Laws, standards and regulations prior to occupancy;
(f)
Electrical service to all manufactured housing shall be securely mounted on the unit rather than on a free-standing pole; all electrical work must be performed by an electrician licensed in the State of Georgia and inspected by the City Building Inspectors;
(g)
Installation of heating and air units must be performed by a mechanical contractor licensed by the State of Georgia and inspected by the City Building Inspector;
(h)
New sewer line installation and hook-up must be done by a plumber licensed in the State Of Georgia and inspected by the City Building Inspector;
(i)
All towing devices, wheels, axles, and hitches must be removed before occupancy;
(j)
All units must have a front porch with a minimum size of 8' × 12' together with a 3 foot railing, as well as a 4' × 4' porch on the rear of the structure;
(k)
Building additions to both mobile homes and manufactured housing must be designed to Enhance the general appearance of the unit, to be structurally sound, and to meet all Applicable regulations and codes, expressed and implied, of the City of Pearson including, without limitation, the Standard Housing Code as the same may be amended from time to time. Construction and site plans must be submitted to the City. A building permit will not be issued if the plans do not comply as stated here in. Inspections must be requested by the builder and subcontractors at appropriate stages;
(l[1])
Each lot where a manufactured house is to be placed shall have paved driveway, with a minimum width of 10 feet, paved with asphalt or concrete and shall extend from a public street to the front walk or front landing of the manufactured housing unit; provided, however, this subsection shall apply only when the driveway abuts on
(1)
a paved street or
(2)
abuts a street which is secluded to be paved pursuant to the published paving list established by the City Commission.
(l[2])
Each unit shall not exceed ten years in age to be determined by the certificate of title or the Department of Community Affairs inspection designation.
(l[3])
The property owner shall comply with all the requirements set forth here in prior to connecting electrical service, water and sewer service and prior to occupancy of the manufactured housing unit.
70.7.
[District Boundaries.]
Beginning at the intersection of East McNeal Street and Access Road; thence south along Access Road to its end and thence from the end of Access Road in a straight line to the intersection of North Court Street and Lott Avenue; thence east on Lott Avenue to its intersection with Byron Street; thence south along Byron Street to its intersection with Georgia State Route 64; thence north along State Route 64 to the Pearson city limits; thence northwest along the Pearson city limits to a line that parallels Rosewood Drive; thence south on Rosewood Drive to its intersection with East McNeal Street; and, thence west on East McNeal Street to the point of beginning.
Beginning at a point on U.S. 441 South at its intersection with Kira Loop and from said intersection west along lands of Nugent; thence south along lands of Nugent; thence east along lands of Nugent to the intersection of U.S. 441 South; thence south along U.S. 441 South to the Pearson city limits; thence northeast along the Pearson city limits to a line even with Kira Loop; thence west in a straight line to the intersection of Kira Loop; thence north and west along Kira Loop to its intersection with U. S. 441 South and the point of beginning.
Beginning at a point on Allen Avenue 210 feet from the proposed 441 By-Pass; thence north 210 feet to a point; thence west 1,410 feet along a line parallel with Allen Avenue; thence south 420 feet; thence east along a line parallel with Allen Avenue 1410 feet; thence north 210 feet to the point of beginning.
Beginning at a point on a line even with the west city limits of the City of Pearson and Edward Avenue; thence east along Edward Avenue to Gaskin Street; thence north on West Street to its intersection with Gordon Street; thence east along Gordon Street and a line even with Gordon Street to First Line Street; thence north 1425 feet along First Line Street to the end and from said end thence 420 feet to a point; thence west in a straight line to the western city limits boundary of the City of Pearson; thence south along the western city limits boundary 1425 feet to the point of beginning.
70.8.
Punishment upon Conviction.
Any violation of the terms and conditions of this Section 70 or any of its subparts is hereby declared to be unlawful and an offense; the failure to do any act required pursuant to the terms and conditions of this Section 70 or any of its subparts is hereby declared to be unlawful and an offense. Each person convicted before the Judge of the Recorder's Court of the City of Pearson (Municipal Court) shall be subject to punishment as set forth of the Code of the City of Pearson.
70.9.
Revocation of Permits.
The Building Official of the City of Pearson may revoke any permit or license issued for the parking, placement or location of any manufactured housing dwelling in the RM-75MH District upon 15 days advance written notice to the permit tee or licensee. Such permit tee or licensee shall be given the opportunity for a hearing on such revocation upon making written demand filed with the City Clerk of the City of Pearson within the 15 day notice period.
(Ord. of 2-14-2006)
Sec. 71. - R-1 Residential Districts.
71.1.
Intent of District - R-1 Residential Districts are established to provide suitable locations for all types of dwellings with appropriate standards for each district. They are designed to accomplish the following purposes:
(a)
To provide sufficient space in appropriate locations for residential development to Meet the housing needs of the present and anticipated population;
(b)
To protect residential areas from hazardous and offensive or objectionable influences;
(c)
To protect residential areas from unnecessary congestion from heavy traffic or through traffic, by regulating the density of population, by regulating the bulk of buildings in relation to the land around them, and by providing for open space for off -street parking;
(d)
To provide space for both public and private community facilities which serve the Needs of nearby residents and which generally perform their functions more effectively in a residential environment;
(e)
To promote the most desirable use of land in accordance with a comprehensive plan;
(f)
To promote stable residential development;
(g)
To conserve the value of land and buildings;
(h)
To promote freedom of architectural design, in order to encourage the development of more attractive and economic building forms;
(i)
To encourage the discontinuance of existing uses that would not be permitted as new uses under the provisions of this article; and,
(j)
To encourage the development of vacant land for attractive diversified residential projects.
71.2.
Permitted Uses.
(a)
Single-family, duplex and multi-family (including apartment and townhouses) dwellings. Existing single-family and duplex dwellings shall not be converted, or otherwise changed to multi-family (3 or more) dwellings. New multi-family dwellings developed shall meet current zoning, building and other development code requirements.
(b)
Public elementary, junior high and senior high level schools.
(c)
Private schools offering curricula substantially the same as that offered by public schools.
(d)
Public libraries, public recreation centers and other public facilities.
(e)
Non-commercial parks, playgrounds and other outdoor recreation activities and their related facilities.
(f)
Non-commercial horticulture or agriculture, but not including the keeping of farm animals or poultry.
(g)
Accessory uses or structures.
(h)
Home occupations.
(i)
Churches, synagogues, temples and other places of worship provided that such uses are located on a lot fronting a major or collector street as designated on the Zoning Map and provided further that no structures housing church activities are located less than fifty (50) feet from a residential property line.
(j)
Public utility substations or sub-installations, provided that; (1) such uses are enclosed by a solid or chain-link fence or wall at least six (6) feet in height above finish grade if needed to give protection against hazardous equipment; (2) there are no office nor is there storage of vehicles, equipment or construction materials on the premises; and (3) landscaped buffer strip not less than five (5) feet in width are planted and suitably maintained at the periphery of the containing facilities.
(k)
Nurseries (pre-school nurseries, day nurseries, day care centers and similar uses) provided that such facilities conform with the requirements of the Georgia State Board of Health and the Atkinson County Health Department and provided that such Play area is fenced to a minimum height of four (4) feet and that no building is less than thirty (30) feet from a residential property line.
(l)
Cemeteries, provided that such uses; (1) front a major street or a collector street; (2) have a ten (10) foot planted buffer strip around its entire perimeter which is kept free of any other use, except access; (3) include no crematorium.
(m)
Signs, Class 1,2; choice of two styles of class 2 for non-residential uses.
(n)
Home Providers I.
71.3.
Lot and Yard Requirements for Single-Family and Duplex and Residential Uses.
(a)
Minimum Lot Area per Dwelling Unit (Square Feet):
EXPAND
R-1
Single-Family 10,000
Duplex 6,000
  (b)
Minimum Lot Width:
EXPAND
R-1
Single-Family 105 ft.
Duplex 105 ft.
  (c)
Minimum Front Yard. The front wall of the main structure shall be set
EXPAND
R-1
Major Street 45 ft.
Collector Street 45 ft.
Minor Street 40 ft.
  (d)
Minimum Side Yard on Street. The side wall of the main structure shall be set back from the right-of-way line of the street as follows:
EXPAND
R-1
Major Street 20 ft.
Collector Street 20 ft.
Minor Street 20 ft.
  (e)
Side Yard Not on Street. The side wall of the main structure shall be set back from the adjacent property line as follows:
EXPAND
R-1
Single Family
Least Dimension 10 ft.
Both Sides 25 ft.
Duplex
Least Dimension 14 ft.
Both Sides 30 ft.
  (f)
Rear Yards. The rear wall of the main structure shall be set back from the rear property line as follows:
EXPAND
R-1
30 ft.
  (g)
Maximum Height. The maximum height for all uses shall be 35 feet, unless approved by the Pearson Fire Dept.
(h)
Floor Area Ratio. In all residential districts, maximum floor area ratio shall not exceed thirty-five (35) percent except as provided for in townhouses.
(Ord. of 5-11-2004)
71.4.
Requirements for Multi-Family Residential Uses.
(a)
Single Building Development. One principal multi-family residential building is permitted on one (1) zoning lot in accordance with the following standards:
(1)
Minimum Lot Area per Dwelling Unit (Square Feet):
EXPAND
R-1
Multi-family 2,900
  (2)
Minimum Front Yard. The front wall of the main structure shall be set Back from the right-of-way of the street as follows:
EXPAND
R-1
Major Street 45 ft.
Collector Street 45 ft.
Minor Street 40 ft.
  (3)
Minimum Side Yard on Street. The side wall of the main structure shall be set back from the right-of-way line of the street as follows:
EXPAND
R-1
Major Street 20 ft.
Collector Street 20 ft.
Minor Street 20 ft.
  (4)
Side Yard Not on the Street. The side wall of the main structure shall be set back from the adjacent property line as follows:
EXPAND
R-1
Multi-family
Least Dimension 20 ft.
Both Sides 40 ft.
  (5)
Rear Yard. The rear wall of the main structure shall be set back from the rear Property lines as follows:
EXPAND
R-1
30 ft.
  (6)
Maximum Height. The maximum height for all uses shall be 35 feet, unless approved by the Pearson Fire Department.
(7)
Floor Area Ratio. Same as provided for in Section 701.3(h).
(b)
Group Building Development. Two or more principal multi-family residential buildings on one or more contiguous lots are permitted in accordance with the following standards:
(1)
Lot Size and Setbacks Requirements: All buildings and structures established as a part of a group building development shall comply with the lot area, size, floor area ratio and setbacks according to Section 71.4(a).
(2)
Separation of Buildings: All residential buildings established as a part of a group buildings development shall be not less than twenty (20) feet apart.
(3)
Street Access: Any building established as a part of a group development which cannot be served from an abutting street shall be made accessible to vehicles by a paved driveway having a roadbed width of not less than twenty (20) feet, exclusive of parking spaces.
(4)
Buffers: Within the above exterior rear and side setback requirements, a planted buffer shall be required. Property within such buffer areas may be included within the lot area for density lot coverage purposes.
[c]
Townhouses. Townhouses are permitted provided that:
(1)
Not more than ten (10) contiguous townhouses nor fewer than three (3) shall be built in a row with approximately the same but staggered front line, except units on corner lots may face either street;
(2)
Minimum width for the portion of the lot on which the townhouse is to be constructed shall be eighteen (18) feet, but the minimum average width of a group of five (5) or more units shall be twenty (20) ft;
(3)
Lot area shall average no less than 2,500 square feet, and the minimum of any single lot shall be 2,00 square feet;
(4)
Separation Requirements. No portion of a townhouse or accessory structure in or related to one group of contiguous townhouses shall be closer than twenty (20) feet to any portion of a townhouse or accessory structure related to another group, or to any building outside the townhouse area;
(5)
Yards. The nearest point of each building shall be at least twenty (20) feet from the nearest right-of-way line of abutting streets and at least ten (10) feet from all other property lines adjacent to the townhouse complex. Each townhouse shall have its own lot, one rear or side yard, private or reasonably secluded from view from streets and from neighboring property. Such yard shall not be used for any accessory building. Front and rear yard setbacks shall be the same as the zone in which such townhouse development is located;
(6)
Grouped Parking Facilities. Insofar as practicable, off-street parking facilities shall be grouped in bays, either adjacent to streets or in the interior of blocks;
(7)
Open Space. In all townhouse projects where more than ten (10) units are to be constructed, a landscaped common area amounting to at least ten (10%) percent of a single townhouse project area shall be provided on the same or adjacent block. No building, parking, storage or other use shall be made of this open space;
(8)
Buffers. Within the above exterior rear and side setback requirements, a planted buffer shall be required. Property within such buffer areas may be included within the lot area for density lot coverage purpose.
Sec. 73. - HP Historical Preservation District.
73.1.
Intent of District - The Purpose of these Districts are to:
(a)
Safeguard the architectural and historic heritage of Pearson by preserving parts of the City which reflect elements of its cultural, economic and architectural history;
(b)
Promote the use of historic district for education, pleasure and welfare of both the citizens of the city and its visitors;
(c)
Stabilize and improve property values; and
(d)
Establish the Board of Review.
73.2.
Permitted Uses.
(a)
Single-family, duplex and multi-family (including apartment and townhouse) dwellings. Existing single-family and duplex dwellings shall not be converted, or otherwise changed to multi-family (3 or more) dwellings. New multi-family dwellings developed shall meet current zoning, building and other development code requirements.
(b)
The following retail sales and services which are located within a residential style building: Barber shops, beauty shops, antique shops, book stores, gift shops, tobacco shops, restaurants and similar retail sales and services.
(c)
The following business activities which are located within a residential style building: Art galleries, museums, and professional offices.
(d)
The previous permitted uses are allowed in any combination within a residential-style building.
(e)
Public libraries, parks, playgrounds and other recreational facilities.
(f)
Public utility stations or sub-installations, provided that: 1) such uses are enclosed by a solid or chain-link fence or wall at least six (6) feet in height above finish grade if needed to give protection against hazardous equipment; 2) there are no offices nor is there storage of vehicles, equipment or construction materials on the premises; and, 3) landscaped buffer strips, not less than five (5) feet in width are planted and suitably maintained at the periphery of the containing facilities.
(g)
Home Occupations.
(h)
Accessory Uses.
(I)
Signs: Class 1, 2; choice of two styles of class 2 for non-residential uses.
(j)
Church, temple, synagogues and other recognized religious places of worship meeting requirements.
(k)
Nurseries (pre-school nurseries, day nurseries, day care centers and similar uses) provided that such facilities conform with requirements of the Georgia State Board of Health Department, and provided that such play (recreational) area is fenced to a minimum height of four (4) feet and that no building is less than thirty (30) feet from a residential property line.
(l)
Home Providers I meeting the requirements of Zoning.
73.3.
Lot and Yard Requirements for Single-Family and Duplex Residential Uses and Commercial Uses within Residential-Style Buildings - Future Use
73.4.
Requirements for Multi-Family Residential Uses - Future Use
73.5.
Requirements for Other Non-Residential Uses - Requirements shown in Section 71.5 shall apply.
73.6.
Classifications of Buildings and Structures - Within the Historic Preservation District, all buildings and structures shall be classified and designated by the Board of Review hereinafter set forth as historic or contemporary.
(a)
Historic. Historic buildings are those which possess identified historical or Architectural merit of a degree that warrants their preservation.
(b)
Contemporary. Contemporary buildings are those buildings or structures Other than historic.
73.7.
Certificate of Approval Required - A Certificate of Approval issued by the Building Inspector upon order of the Board of Review shall be required before a building permit is issued for any of the following, within the Historic Preservation District:
(a)
The demolition of any building designated as historic.
(b)
The moving or relocation of any historic building.
(c)
Any material change in the exterior appearance of existing buildings classified as historic by additions, reconstruction, rehabilitation alteration or any maintenance involving exterior color or material changes.
(d)
Any new construction of a principal building or accessory building or structure subject to view from a public street.
(e)
Changes in existing walls, fences, steps and paving, or construction of new walls or fences, if along public street rights-of-way, lanes or alleys.
(f)
Materials change in the exterior appearance of existing contemporary buildings by additions, reconstruction, alterations, rehabilitation or maintenance involving an exterior color change, if subject to view from a public street right-of-way.
(g)
The erection or display on any lot, building or structure of any sign, light or other appurtenant fixture.
73.8.
Application for Certificate of Approval - The application for a Certificate of Approval shall be delivered with the supporting information and material to the Board of Review for consideration. The Board shall act upon the application within thirty (30) days after the filing of the application. No action shall be deemed as approval, and a Certificate of Approval shall be processed in the same manner as a building or demolition permit. If the Board of Review disapproves the application, the Certificate of Approval shall not be issued. The Board shall inform the applicant of such disapproval in writing and state the reasons therefor.
73.9.
Board of Review.
(a)
Creation and Composition: There is hereby created the Pearson Historic Preservation District Board of Review which shall consist of three (3) members appointed by the Pearson City Commission who shall be residents of the City of Pearson interested in the preservation and development of the Historic District, three (3) members appointed by the Pearson City Commission who shall be residents of the Historic Preservation District, and two (2) other members having the expertise in the fields of architecture and historic preservation to be appointed by the Pearson City Commission.
(b)
Jurisdiction: The Board's services shall be limited to the areas designated as the Historic Preservation District zone on the Official Zoning Map of Pearson. The Board shall not consider detailed design of interior arrangements or architectural features hidden from public view nor shall they impose any restrictions other than for the purpose of preventing any demolition or development which is not in accordance with the standards set for in Zoning Guidelines.
(c)
Terms of Office: The terms of office shall be there (3) years, except that of those first appointed, two shall be appointed for one (1) year, three for two (2) years and three (3) years.
(d)
Serve Without Pay: Members of the Board shall serve without pay.
(e)
Organization: The Board shall elect from its membership a Chairman and a Vice-Chairman who shall serve for terms of one year and who shall be eligible for vote. In the absence or disability of the Chairman, he Vice-Chairman shall perform the duties of the Chairman. A majority of the members of the Board shall constitute a quorum, however, no application or Certificate of Approval shall be denied except by an affirmative vote by a majority of the entire Board. The Board shall adopt rules for the transaction of its business and consideration of applications not inconsistent herewith which shall provide for the time and place of regular meetings and for the calling of special meetings. All meetings of the Board shall be open to the public and a public record shall be kept of the Board's resolutions, proceedings and actions.
(f)
Technical Assistance: The City shall provide the technical, administrative, and clerical assistance as required by the Board.
(g)
Meetings: The Board shall hold regular meetings, at least monthly, to review requests for Certificates of Approval.
73.10.
Development Standards.
(a)
Preservation of Historic Buildings Within All Zones in the Historic District: A building or structure classified as Historic, or any part thereof, or any appurtenance related thereto, including, but not limited to: walls, fences, light fixtures, steps, paving and signs shall only be moved, reconstructed, altered or maintained in a manner that will preserve the historical and architectural integrity of the structure, building or appurtenance thereof.
(b)
Demolition of Historic Buildings: In cases where a property owner shows that a building classified as historic is unable too earn reasonable economic return on its value (this would require a professional appraisal) and the Board fails to issue a Certificate of Approval, such building may be demolished. However, prior to demolition, public notice shall be given of the intent to demolish the building for periods set by the Board of Review of up to twelve (12) months. Procedures for the demolition of the structure or building proceeds in the same manner as all other demolition projects taking place in the City. The purpose of this section is to further the purpose of this ordinance by preserving historic buildings which are economic values of the City and to afford to City, interested persons, historical societies and/or organizations the opportunity to acquire and/or arrange for the preservation of such Buildings: The Board may at any time during the required waiting period issue a Certificate of Approval in which case a building permit maybe granted without delay.
(c)
Relocation of Historic Buildings: A historic building may not be relocated on another site unless it is shown that the preservation on the existing site is not consistent with the purposes of this section, or such building will not earn an economic return for the owner of such building on such site. However, prior to relocation, public notice shall be given of the intent to relocate the building of periods set by the Board of Review of up to six (6) months.
(d)
Contemporary Buildings: The construction of a new building or structure or the moving, reconstruction, demolition, alteration, painting, maintenance or repair materially affecting the exterior of any existing contemporary building, structure or appurtenance thereto, including repainting the same color, shall be generally of such design, form, mass, configuration, building material, texture, color, and location on a site as will be compatible with other buildings and structures in the Historic Preservation District, and particularly with buildings designated as historic and with places to which they are visually related.
(e)
Visual Compatibly Factors: Within the designated Historic District, new construction and existing buildings, structures and appurtenances attached thereto which are moved, reconstructed, materially altered, repaired or painted, including repainting the same color, shall be visually compatible with buildings and places to which they are visually related generally, in terms of the following factors:
(1)
Height: The height of a proposed building shall be visually compatible with adjacent building.
(2)
Proportion of Building Front Facade: The relationship of the width of the building to the height of the front elevation shall be visually compatible with buildings and places to which it is visually related.
(3)
Proportion of Openings Within the Facility: The relationship of the width of the windows in a building to the height of the windows shall be visually compatible with buildings and places to which it is visually related.
(4)
Rhythm of Solids to Voids in Front Facades: The relationship of solids to voids in the front facade of a building shall be visually compatible with buildings and places to which it is visually related.
(5)
Rhythm of Spacing of Buildings on Streets: The relationship of buildings to open spaces between it and the adjoining buildings shall be visually compatible to the buildings and places to which it is visually related.
(6)
Rhythm of Entrance and/or Porch Projection: The relationship of entrances and porch projections to the sidewalks of a building shall be visually compatible to the building and places to which it is visually related.
(7)
Relationship of Materials, Texture and Color: The relationship of the materials, texture and color of the facade of a building shall be visually compatible with the predominant materials in the buildings to which it is visually related.
(8)
Roof shapes: The roof shape of a building shall be visually compatible with the buildings to which it is visually related.
(9)
Wall of Continuity: Appurtenances of a building such as walls, wrought iron, fences, evergreen landscape masses, building facade shall, if necessary, form cohesive walls of enclosure along a street, to insure visual compatibility of the buildings or places to which it is visually related.
(10)
Scale of a Building: The size of a building, the building mass of a building in relation to open spaces, the windows, door openings, porches and balconies shall be visually compatible with the buildings and places to which it is visually related.
(11)
Directional Expression of Front Elevation: A building shall be visually compatible with the buildings and places to which it is visually related in the directional character or non-directional character.
73.11.
Conditional Uses - Upon application and payment of any fees, the Building Inspector may issue a building permit for the following uses provided all of subsequent conditions are met:
(a)
Bed and Breakfast Inn shall be permitted as a conditional use provided all of the following conditions and procedures are met:
(1)
Person(s) desiring to operate a Bed and Breakfast Inn within their retail business or residence shall apply for approval and meet the procedures and fees of a conditional use permit approved by building official.
(2)
That Bed and Breakfast Inn is intended to provide for occasional paying guests.
(3)
That Bed and Breakfast Inn use is to be allowed in an owner-occupied residence or tourist related retail business.
(4)
That the normal period of continuous occupancy by any guest will not exceed six calendar days.
(5)
In owner-occupied residences, only breakfast shall be served to guests in residence. Incidental restaurant operation of a fee to others shall not be permitted except when a restaurant use is also located in the residence or retail business building.
(6)
That adequate off-street parking will be provided for all Bed and Breakfast paying guests.
(7)
No exterior alterations, other than those necessary to assure safety of the structure, shall be made to any building for the purpose of providing a Bed and Breakfast Inn. The requirements of this Section 703 shall be met for approval of such exterior changes.
(8)
The owner shall keep a current guest register including names, addresses and dates of occupancy of all guests.
(9)
The owner shall comply with all business license and revenue collection ordinances of the City of Pearson and the State of Georgia.
(10)
The building shall comply with all requirements for dwellings including in the City's Standard Building Code.
(11)
Such Bed and Breakfast Inn shall be located on a major street or collector street.
Sec. 74. - M Medical District.
74.1.
Intent of District - The M Medical District is established to contain as principal uses residences, the medical offices associated therewith, and certain types of retail and service establishments which should be in the vicinity of the medical zone for the convenience of patients and visitors, and residences as a principal use. The specific intentions of the regulatory provisions as applied to this district are to:
(a)
Encourage the construction and continued use of the land for medical and related facilities;
(b)
Exclude commercial enterprises not directly serving the facilities or persons using the medical facilities;
(c)
Enhance the compatibility of the medical and commercial uses and the residences adjoining such uses or among which they are interspersed; and,
(d)
Encourage the discontinuance of existing uses that would not be permitted as new uses under the provisions of this article.
74.2.
Permitted Uses.
(a)
Single-family, duplex and multi-family (including apartment and townhouses) dwellings.
(b)
Home Occupations.
(c)
Medical school facilities, including students', interns' and nurses' quarters.
(d)
Hospitals, clinics and clinical laboratories.
(e)
Care Homes.
(f)
Medical, dental and professional offices.
(g)
Restaurants which are located only within or in combination with another business. Drive-in restaurants are not included in this use.
(h)
Pharmaceutical stores and pharmacies.
(i)
Flower and gift shops.
(j)
Undertaking establishments.
(k)
Accessory Uses.
(l)
Signs: Class 1,2,7; choice of two styles of class 2 or choice of two styles of class 7 non-residential and multi-family uses.
(m)
Churches and other places of worship.
(n)
Home Providers I.
74.3.
Lot and Yard Requirements for Single-Family and Duplex Residential Uses - Requirements shown in Section 71.4 pertaining to the R-75MH District, where applicable, shall apply to single-family and duplex residential uses.
74.4.
Requirements for Multi-Family Residential Uses - Requirements shown in Section 71.4 pertaining to the R-75MH District, where applicable shall apply to multi-family residential uses.
74.5.
Requirements for Non-Residential Uses —
(a)
Minimum Lot Area. 12,000 square feet.
(b)
Minimum Lot Width. 100 ft.
(c)
Minimum Front Yard. The front wall of the main structure shall be set back from the right-of-way line of the street as follows:
EXPAND
Major Street 40 feet
Collector Street 40 feet
Minor Street 35 feet
  (d)
Minimum Side Yard on Street. The side wall of the main structure shall be set back from the right-of-way line of the street as follows:
EXPAND
Major Street 20 feet
Collector Street 20 feet
Minor Street 20 feet
  (e)
Side Yard Not on Street. The side wall of the main structure shall be set back from the adjacent property line at least twenty (20) feet. The combined area of both side yards shall be at least forty-five (45) feet.
(f)
Rear Yards. The rear wall of the main structure shall be set back from the rear property line at least twenty-five (25) feet.
(g)
Maximum Height. The maximum height for all uses shall be sixty (60) feet, unless approved by the Pearson Fire Department.
(h)
Planted Buffer. A planted buffer strip is required within setbacks adjoining residential uses and meeting the requirements of Section 610.
(i)
Floor Area Ratio. Maximum floor area ratio, including any parking space provided within the structure, shall not exceed forty (40) percent for single-story buildings, nor shall it exceed eighty (80) percent for buildings of more than one story. The ground area occupied by the principal and accessory buildings shall not exceed forty (40) percent of the total zoning lot.
Sec. 75. - O Office District.
75.1.
Intent of District - The O Office District is intended to permit those office uses which will provide opportunities for local employment close to residential areas, thus reducing travel to and from work and which will provide clean, modern office buildings in landscaped setting; uses which do not generate large volumes of traffic, traffic congestion and parking problems; and which will promote the most desirable use of land in accordance with the Pearson Future Land Use Plan.
75.2.
Permitted Uses.
(a)
Commercial, financial, governmental and professional offices, but not including any storage, sale, rental or servicing of goods on the premises.
(b)
Restaurants which are only located within or in combination with another permitted business, excluding drive-in facilities.
(c)
Any publicly owned and operated building, facility or land.
(d)
Signs: Class 1,2; choice of two styles of Class 2.
(e)
Churches and other places of worship.
(f)
Fraternal/Masonic Lodges, provided that such uses shall not conduct fundraising activities including circuses, carnivals and similar activities not the conduct of vending stands, merchandising or commercial activities.
(g)
Archive Depot.
(h)
Single-family, duplex, multi-family residences.
(i)
Home Providers I.
75.3.
Lot and Yard Requirements for Non-Residential Uses.
(a)
Minimum Front Yard. The front wall of the main structure shall be set back from the right of way line of the street as follows:
EXPAND
Major Street 35 feet
Collector Street 35 feet
Minor Street 30 feet
  (b)
Minimum Side Yard on Street. The side wall of the main structure shall be set back from the right-of-way line of the street as follows:
EXPAND
Major Street 20 feet
Collector Street 20 feet
Minor Street 17 feet
  (c)
Side Yard Not on Street. Where adjacent fireproof walls are used, no side yard is required. Otherwise, the side wall of the main structure shall be set back at least fifteen (15) feet from the side property line or twenty-five (25) feet from any adjacent building, whichever is greater, provided that the distance between structures shall be increased by three (3) feet for each story of each structure in excess of two (2) stories.
(d)
Minimum Rear Yard. The rear wall of the main structure will be set back twenty-five (25) feet from the rear property line.
(e)
Maximum Height. No structure shall exceed sixty (60) feet, unless approved by the Pearson Fire Department.
(f)
Floor Area Ratio.
75.4.
Lot and Yard Requirements for Single-Family, Duplex and Multi-Family Residential Uses.
(a)
Minimum Lot Area Per dwelling Unit (Square Feet):
EXPAND
Single-Family 6,000
Duplex 4,500
Multi-Family 2,9000
  (b)
Minimum Lot Width for Dwellings:
EXPAND
Single-Family 50 feet
Duplex 65 feet
Multi-Family 90 feet
  (c)
Minimum Front Yard. The front wall of the main structure shall be set back from the right-of-way line of the street as follows:
EXPAND
Major Street 35 feet
Collector Street 35 feet
Minor Street 30 feet
  (d)
Minimum Side Yard on Street. The side wall of the main structure shall be set back from the right-of-way line of the street as follows:
EXPAND
Major Street 20 feet
Collector Street 20 feet
Minor Street 17 feet
  (e)
Side Yard Not on Street. The side wall on the main structure shall be set back from the adjacent property line as follows:
EXPAND
Single Family
Least Dimension 6 feet
Both Sides 15 feet
Duplex
Least Dimension 8 feet
Both Sides 18 feet
Multi-Family
Least Dimension 10 feet
Both Sides 25 feet
  (f)
Rear Yards. The rear wall of the main structure shall be set back from the rear property line as follows: 25 feet.
(g)
Maximum Height. The maximum height for all uses shall be 35 feet, unless approved by the Pearson Fire Department. Height in excess of 35 feet if approved by the Pearson Fire Department, shall not exceed the maximum height approved by the Pearson Fire Department. Applicant seeking approval for height in excess of 35 feet must request said approval, in writing and provide maps and specification of the proposed project.
(h)
Floor Area Ratio. In all residential districts, maximum floor area ratio of building including parking to lot size shall not exceed thirty-five (35) percent except as provided for in townhouses.
Sec. 77. - C-2 Highway Commercial.
77.1.
Intent of District - The C-2 Highway Commercial District is established as a district to contain as principal uses those commercial and service activities which will serve the tourist and automobile drive-trade. The specific intentions of the regulatory provisions as applied to this district are to:
(a)
Encourage the development and continued use of the land for highway service uses;
(b)
Prohibit industrial and certain types of commercial uses which would substantially interfere with the continuation of the uses presently in the district or with the orderly growth of the district;
(c)
Encourage the discontinuance of existing uses that would not be permitted as new uses under the provisions of this article; and,
(d)
Encourage the development of the district with such uses and in such a manner as to minimize traffic and parking congestion in such a manner as to provide for the safety of motorists passing through the district.
77.2.
Permitted Uses.
(a)
All uses permitted in the C-1 Commercial District.
(b)
Radio and Television Transmission Towers.
(c)
Transient residential establishments such as hotels, motels, tourist homes and boarding houses.
(d)
Commercial governmental, financial or professional offices.
(e)
Printing establishments.
(f)
Commercial recreation facilities such as bowling alleys, pool or billiard parlors, roller skating rinks, theaters, miniature golf courses, golf driving ranges, swimming pools, video arcades, health centers, etc.
(g)
Retail sales and services for the convenience of tourists and drive-in trade such as: auto accessory stores, restaurants, dry-cleaning establishments, flower shops, bakeries, furniture and office supply and equipment stores and clothing accessory shops.
(h)
Service involving considerable automobile and truck traffic which would present unusual safety hazards if permitted in areas with heavy pedestrian traffic such as: Automobile laundries, auto sales and services, cold storage lockers, appliance and business machine sales and services, undertaking establishments, boat sales and services, farm supply and implement sales and services, mobile home sales agencies, trailer and equipment rentals, building materials stores, etc.
(i)
Railroad and bus passenger and freight stations.
(j)
Animal hospitals or veterinary clinics provided that any structure used for that purpose shall be at least 200 feet from any residential district.
(k)
Commercial parking lots.
(l)
Accessory Uses.
(m)
Signs: Class 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 8; Choice of two styles of class 2 or class 4; and choice of one class 5 or class 6; and choice of one class 8; Mobile sign class 8 is deleted from use in shopping centers and commercial strips. In shopping centers and commercial strips choice of two styles of wall, projecting, roof, and individual letter signs of class 2 or class 4, in addition to class 3.
(n)
Private Club or Lodge.
77.3.
Lot and Yard Requirements.
(a)
Minimum Front Yard. The front wall of the main structure shall be set back from the right-of-way line of the street as follows*:
EXPAND
Major Street 40 feet
Collector Street 40 feet
Minor Street 40 feet
  *See Section 618 Special Building Setbacks for other requirements.
(b)
Minimum Side Yard on Street. The side wall of the main structure shall be set back from the right-of-way line of the street as follows*:
EXPAND
Major Street 30 feet
Collector Street 30 feet
Minor Street 25 feet
  *See Section 618 Special Building Setbacks for other requirements.
(c)
Side Yard Not on Street. Where adjacent fireproof walls are used, no side yard is required. Otherwise, the sidewall of the main structure shall be set back at least ten (10) feet from the side property line or fifteen (15) feet from and adjacent building, whichever is greater.
(d)
Minimum Rear Yard. The rear wall of the main structure shall be set back at least twenty-five (25) feet from the rear property line.
(e)
Maximum Height. No structure shall exceed sixty (60) feet, unless approved by the Pearson Fire Department.
(f)
Planted Buffer. A planted buffer strip is required within setbacks adjoining residential uses and meeting the requirements of Section 610.
(g)
Floor Area Ratio. Maximum floor area ratio, including any parking space within the structure, shall not exceed forty (40) percent for single-story buildings, nor shall it exceed sixty (60) percent for buildings of more than one story. The ground area occupied by the principal and accessory buildings shall not exceed forty (40) percent of the total zoning lot area.
77.4.
Other Requirements. The requirements in Section 76.4 shall apply.
77.5.
Conditional Uses.
The following permitted uses provided that the maximum floor area ratio, including any parking space within the structure, shall not exceed seventy-five (75) percent for single-story buildings, nor shall it exceed one hundred fifty (150) percent for buildings of more than one story. The ground area occupied by principal and accessory buildings shall not exceed seventy-five (75) percent of the total zoning lot area:
(1)
Storage of any products or supplies eventually to be sold at retail, provided that no unusual fire or safety hazards are created, no live animals are sold and no junk, wrecked automobiles, second-hand equipment or other salvage materials or dead animals are stored or sold on the premises, and all merchandise is stored wholly within an enclosed structure.
(2)
The manufacture, compounding, processing, packaging, treatment or assembly of any product which does not produce offensive odors, glare, dust or heat and which does not produce noise or vibration at any boundary of the district in which such use is located in excess of the average intensity of street or traffic noise or privation at that point.
(3)
Flea Market: The Building Inspector may issue a use permit for a flea market. Any use permit granted by the Building Inspector shall be subject to the following conditions being met.
(a)
That the sales and parking area be located no closer than 300 feet to any existing or conditionally approved residential zoning district and the uses of this land must be outlined on the development plan/use permit applications;
(b)
A flea market operations in buildings shall be conducted wholly within such enclosed buildings; outdoor selling, storage, display, serving of goods or materials is permitted only in open-air flea market operations;
(c)
Levels of noise, vibrations, smoke, gas, fumes, odor, dust, fire hazard, radiation, or other injurious or obnoxious conditions shall not exceed the average annual daily levels of existing adjacent uses within 1,000 feet of the premises (lot);
(d)
Off-street parking be provided according to standards set by Section 608;
(e)
The use permit shall describe and provide adequate traffic access to the flea market by streets that do not serve residences;
(f)
Acceleration-deceleration lanes shall be provided at the access drive to the site in accordance with City Engineer's standards;
(g)
Proof that the vendor holds a valid states sales tax permit;
(h)
Overnight lodging shall not be allowed;
(i)
The City shall regulate hours which outdoor lighting may be used; such lighting shall meet the requirements of Section 616;
(j)
Reserved;
(k)
All selling space and aisles must be of dust-free surface as determined by the Building Inspector;
(l)
Accessory uses such as vending machines for snack, foods, drinks, tobacco products and sundries, provided such uses meet all City Codes;
(m)
At least two restrooms shall be provided according to City Codes;
(n)
Warehousing or indoor-outdoor storage of goods or materials in quantity greater than normally needed for the above permitted uses shall be prohibited.
Planted Buffer. For the above conditional uses, within the required rear and side setback requirements, a planted buffer strip shall be required meeting the requirements of Section 610.
77.6.
Towers and Antennas Pursuant to the Following Definitions and Conditions:
1)
Definitions. As used in this ordinance, the following terms shall have the meanings indicated:
(a)
"Alternative Tower Structure" shall mean man-made trees, clock towers, bell steeples, light poles, and similar alternative-design mounting structures.
(b)
"Antenna" shall mean exterior apparatus designed for telephone, radio, or television communication through sending and/or receiving of electromagnetic waves.
(c)
"FAA" shall mean the Federal Aviation Administration.
(d)
"FCC" shall mean the Federal Communications Commission.
(e)
"Governing Authority" shall mean the governing authority of the City of Pearson.
(f)
"Grandfathered Towers and Antennas" shall have the meaning set in Section 2 (d) of this ordinance.
(g)
"Height" shall mean, when referring to a tower or other structure, the distance measured from ground level to the highest point on the tower or other structure, even if said highest point is an antenna.
(h)
"Tower" shall mean any structure that is designed and constructed primarily for the purpose of supporting one or more antennas, including self-supporting lattice towers, guy towers, or monopole towers. The term includes radio and television transmission towers, microwave towers, common-carrier towers, cellular telephone towers and the like.
2)
Applicability.
District Height Limitations. The requirements set forth in this ordinance shall govern the location of towers that exceed, and antennas that are installed at a height in excess of, any existing height limitations of any other zoning ordinance of the governing authority. The height limitations applicable to buildings and structures shall not apply to towers and antennas.
(a)
Public Property. Antennas or towers located on publicly owned property shall be exempt from the requirements of this ordinance, provided a license or lease authorizing such antenna or tower has been approved by the Commission.
(b)
Amateur Radio: Receive-Only Antennas. This ordinance shall not govern any tower, or the installation of any antenna, that is under seventy (70) feet in height and is owned and operated by a federally-licensed amateur radio station operator or is used exclusively for receive-only antennas.
(c)
Grand fathered Towers and Antennas. Any tower or antenna existing on the effective date of this ordinance shall not be required to meet the requirements of this ordinance, other than the requirements of Sections 3.e and 3.f. Any such towers or antennas that fail to meet the requirements of this ordinance shall be referred to in this ordinance as "grand fathered towers" or grand fathered antennas".
3)
General Guidelines and Requirements.
(a)
Purpose: Goals. The purpose of this ordinance is to establish guidelines for the sitting of towers and antennas. The goals of this ordinance re to (i) enhance the ability of the providers of telecommunications services to provide such services to the community quickly, effectively, and efficiently, (ii) encourage strongly the joint use of new and existing towers sites, (iii) encourage users of towers and antennas to locate them, to the extent possible, in areas where the adverse impact on the community is minimal, (iv) encourage users of towers and antennas to configure them in a way that minimizes the adverse visual impact of the towers and antennas, and (v) discourage, specifically, the location of towers in residential areas and, generally, the proliferation of towers throughout the community.
(b)
Principal or Accessory Use. Antennas and towers may be considered either principal or Accessory uses. A different existing use or an existing structure on the same lot shall not preclude the installation of antenna or tower on such lot. For purposes of determining whether the installation of a tower or antenna complies with district development regulations, including but not limited to set-back requirements, lot-coverage requirements, and other such requirements, the dimensions of the entire lot shall control, even though the antennas or towers may be located on leased parcels within such lots.
(c[1])
Inventory or Existing Sites. Each applicant for an administrative approval or a special use permit shall provide to the Building Department with an inventory of its existing towers, including specific information about the location, height and design of each tower. The Building Department may share such information with other applicants applying for administrative appeals or special use permits under this ordinance or other organizations seeking to locate antennas within the jurisdiction of the governing authority.
(c[2])
Aesthetics: Lighting. The guidelines set forth in this Section 3.d. shall govern the location of all towers, and the installation of all antennas, governed by this ordinance; provided, however, that the governing authority may waive these requirements if, in its sole discretion, it determines that the goals of this ordinance are better served thereby.
1)
Towers shall either maintain a galvanized steel finish, or, subject to any Applicable standards of the FAA or other applicable regulatory agencies, Be painted sky blue or gray, so as to reduce visual obtrusiveness.
2)
At a tower site, the design of the buildings and related structures shall, to the extent possible, use materials, colors, textures, screening and landscaping that will blend the tower facilities to the natural setting and built environment.
3)
If an antenna is installed on a structure other than a tower, the antenna and Supporting electrical and mechanical equipment must be of a neutral color that is identical to, or closely compatible with, the color of the supporting structure So as to make the antenna and related equipment as visually unobtrusive as possible.
4)
Towers shall not be artificially lighted, unless required by the FAA or other applicable authority. If lighting is required, the governing authority may review the available lighting alternatives and approve the design that would cause the least disturbance to the surrounding views.
(d)
Federal Requirements. All towers must meet or exceed current standards and regulations of the FAA, the FCC, and any other agency of the federal government or state government with the authority to regulate towers and antennas governed by this ordinance shall bring such towers and antennas into compliance with such revised standards and regulations within six (6) months of the effective date of such standards and regulations. Failure to bring towers and antennas into compliance with such revised standards and regulations shall constitute grounds for the removal of the tower or antenna at the owner's expense.
(e)
Building Codes: Safety Standards. To ensure the structural integrity of towers, the owner of a tower shall ensure that it is maintained in compliance with standards contained in applicable City of Pearson building codes and the applicable standards for towers that are published by the Electronic Industries Association, as amended from time to time. If, upon inspection, the Chief Codes Official concludes that a tower fails to comply with such codes and standards and constitutes a danger to persons or property, then upon notice being provide to the owner of the tower, the owner shall have thirty (30) days to bring such tower into compliance with such codes and standards. If the owner fails to bring such tower into compliance within said thirty (30) days, the City of Pearson may remove such tower at the owner's expense.
4)
Conditional Uses.
(a)
General. The uses listed in this Section 4 are deemed to be conditional uses and shall require administrative review. Nevertheless, all such uses shall comply with Sections 3.d., 3.e., and 3.f. of this ordinance and all other applicable ordinances, and prior to the installation of any antenna or tower pursuant to this Section 4, the owner of such antenna or tower shall send written notice to the Building Department, which notice shall include the location, size and configuration of such antenna or tower.
(b)
Specific Conditional Uses. The following uses are conditionally permitted.
1)
Locating a tower in C-2 zoning district;; provided, however, that such tower shall be set back from any existing off-site residential structure a distance equal to the height of the tower, plus fifty (50) feet;
2)
Installing an antenna in a C-2 zoning district on an existing structure that is fifty (50) feet in height or greater, so long as said additional antenna adds no more than twenty (20) feet to the height of said existing structure, such structures to include buildings, signs, lights poles, water towers, and other free-standing non residential structures; and
3)
Installing an antenna on any existing tower of any height, so long as the addition of said antenna adds no more than twenty (20) feet to the height of said existing tower and said existing tower is not a grand fathered tower.
5)
Administrative Approvals.
(a)
General.
1)
The Chief Codes Official may administratively approve the uses listed in this Section 5.
2)
Applicants for administrative approval shall apply to the Chief Codes Official, Providing the information set forth in Sections 6.b. and 6.d. of this ordinance.
3)
The Chief Codes Official shall respond to each such application within thirty (30) days of receiving it by either approving the application, denying the application, or requesting further information from the applicant. If the Chief Codes Official fails to respond to the applicant within said thirty (30) days, then the application shall be deemed to be approved.
4)
In connection with any such administrative approval, the Chief Codes Official may, in order to encourage shared use, administratively waive any district setback requirements by up to fifty percent (50%).
(b)
Specific Administratively Approved Uses. The following uses may be approved by the Chief Codes Officer after conducting an administrative review:
1)
Installing an antenna in a C-2 zoning district on an existing structure other than a tower (such as a building, sign, light pole, water tower or other free-standing nonresidential structure), as long as such addition does not add more than twenty (20) feet to the height of the existing structure;
2)
Installing an antenna on an existing tower, including a grand fathered tower and further including the placement of additional buildings or other supporting equipment used in connection with said antenna, so long as the addition of said antenna adds no more than twenty (20) feet to the height of said existing tower;
6)
Conditional Use Permits.
(a)
General. The following provisions shall govern the issuance of conditional use permit.
1)
A conditional use permit shall be required for the construction of a tower or the placement of an antenna.
2)
Any information of an engineering nature that the applicant submits, whether civil, mechanical, electrical, or radio-frequency, shall be certified by a qualified professional engineer.
(b)
Site Plan. Applicants requesting a conditional use permit under this ordinance shall submit a scaled site plan, showing the location and dimensions of all improvements, including information concerning topography, radio frequency coverage, tower height requirements, setbacks, drives, parking, fencing, landscaping, and other information necessary to access compliance with this ordinance.
(c)
Factors Considered in Granting Conditional Use Permits. The governing authority shall consider the following factors in determining whether to issue a conditional use permit, although the governing authority may waive or reduce the burden on the applicant of one or more of these criteria, if, in the sole discretion of the governing authority, the goals of this ordinance are better served thereby:
1)
Height of the proposed tower;
2)
Proximity of the tower to residential structures and residential district boundaries;
3)
Nature of uses on adjacent and nearby properties;
4)
Surrounding topography;
5)
Surrounding tree coverage and foliage;
6)
Design of the tower, with particular reference to design characteristics that have the effect of reducing or eliminating visual obtrusiveness; and
7)
Availability of suitable existing towers and other structures as discussed in Section 6.d. of this ordinance.
(d)
Availability of Suitable Existing Towers or Other Structures. No new tower shall be permitted unless the applicant demonstrates to the reasonable satisfaction of the governing authority that no existing tower or structure can accommodate the applicant's proposed antenna. Evidence submitted to demonstrate that no existing tower or structure can accommodate the applicant's proposed antenna may consist of the following:
1)
No existing towers or structures are located within the geographic area required to meet applicant's engineering requirements;
2)
Existing towers or structures are not of sufficient height to meet applicant's engineering requirements;
3)
Existing towers or structures do not have sufficient structural strength to support applicant's proposed antenna and related equipment;
4)
Applicant's proposed antenna would cause electromagnetic interference with the antenna on the existing towers or structures;
5)
The fees or costs required to share an existing tower or structure or to adapt an existing tower or structure for sharing are unreasonable. Costs exceeding new tower development are presumed unreasonable;
6)
Property owner's of existing towers or structures are unwilling to accommodate reasonably the applicant's needs;
7)
Applicant demonstrates that there are other limiting factors that render existing Towers and structures unsuitable.
(e)
Setbacks and Separation. The following setbacks and separation requirements shall apply to all towers and antennas for which a conditional use permit is required; provided, however, that the governing authority may, in its sole discretion, reduce the standard setbacks and separation requirements if the goal of this ordinance would be better served thereby.
(1)
Towers must be set back a distance equal to the height of the tower plus (50) feet from any off-site residential structure.
(2)
Towers, guys, and accessory facilities must satisfy the minimum district Yard setback requirements.
(3)
Towers over seventy (70) feet in height shall not be located within one- Quarter of a mile from any existing tower that is over seventy (70) feet in height.
(f)
Security Fencing. Towers shall be enclosed by security fencing not less than six feet in height and shall be equipped with an appropriate anti-climbing device; provided, however, that the governing authority may, in its sole discretion, waive such requirements if the goals of this ordinance would be better served thereby.
(1)
Tower facilities shall be landscaped with a buffer that effectively screens the view of the tower compound from adjacent residential property. The standard buffer shall consist of a landscaped strip at lease four (4) feet wide outside the perimeter of the compound.
(2)
In locations where the visual impact of the tower would be minimal, the landscaping requirement may be reduced or waived altogether.
(3)
Existing mature tree growth and natural land forms on the site shall be preserved to the maximum extent possible. In some cases, such as towers sited on large, wooded lots, natural growth around the property perimeter may be a sufficient buffer.
7)
Removal of abandoned Antennas and Towers. Any antenna or tower that is not operated for a continuous period of twelve (12) months shall be considered abandoned, and the owner of such antenna or tower shall remove same within ninety (90) days of receipt of notice from the governing authority notifying the owner of such abandonment. If such antenna or tower is not removed within said ninety (90) days, the governing authority may remove such antenna or tower at the owner's expense. If there are two or more uses of a single tower, then this provision shall not become effective until all users cease using the tower.
Sec. 78. - C-1A Central Business District.
78.1.
Intent of District - The C-1A Business District is established to preserve and protect land to be used for those commercial and service uses serving the City of Pearson and its regional market area. The specific intentions of the regulatory provisions as applied to this district are to:
(a)
Encourage the use of the land for commercial and service uses of regional scope;
(b)
Guide the conservation and future development toward an intensive mix of commercial and residential uses;
(c)
Prohibit industrial uses and certain types of commercial uses which would substantially interfere with the effective operation of the uses presently in the district or with the orderly growth of the district to meet the growth of trade in the regional market area;
(d)
Encourage the discontinuance of existing uses that would not be permitted as new uses under the provisions of this article; and
(e)
Encourage the development of the district with such uses and in such a manner as to minimize traffic and parking congestion and to provide for the safety and convenience of the pedestrians in the district.
78.2.
Permitted Uses.
(a)
Multi-family (including apartments and townhouses).
(b)
Nurseries (pre-school nurseries, day nurseries, day care centers and similar uses) meeting the requirements of Section 70.1.2(k).
(c)
Libraries, art galleries, museums and other similar public uses.
(d)
All commercial, financial, governmental or professional offices, including medical and dental offices.
(e)
Retail sales and services of all kinds.
(f)
Churches, synagogues and other places of worship.
(g)
Hotels, motels and boarding houses.
(h)
Commercial recreation facilities.
(i)
Utility stations and facilities subject to the provisions of Section 70.6.2(e).
(j)
Railroad and bus passenger stations.
(k)
Commercial off-street parking lots or structures.
(l)
Accessory uses.
(m)
Reserved.
(n)
Reserved.
(o)
Signs: Class 1, 2, 7; choice of two styles of class 2 or choice of two styles of class 7.
(p)
Private school offering curricula substantially the same as that offered by public schools providing that parking requirements of Section 60.8 are met.
(q)
Home Providers I meeting the requirements of Section 30.2.29A (C-4).
78.3.
Lot and Yard Requirements for Non-Residential Uses
(a)
Minimum Front Yard. None required.
(b)
Minimum Side Yard on Street. None required.
(c)
Side Yard Not on Street. Where adjacent fireproof walls are used, no side yard is required. Otherwise, the side wall of the main structure shall be set back at least ten (10) feet from the side property line or fifteen (15) feet from any adjacent building, whichever is greater, provided that the distance between structures shall be increased by three (3) feet for each story of each structure in excess of two (2) stories.
(d)
Rear Yard. The rear wall of the main structure shall be set back at least ten (10) feet from the rear property line, except where the rear of a zoning lot adjoins an alley or street, in which case, no rear yard shall be required.
(e)
Maximum Height. No structure shall exceed sixty (60) feet in height, except upon approval of the City of Pearson Fire Department.
(f)
Planted Buffer. A planted buffer strip is required within setbacks adjoining residential uses and meeting the requirements of Section 610.
(g)
Floor Area Ratio. Maximum floor area ratio, including any parking spaces provided with the structure, shall not exceed one hundred (100) percent for single-story buildings, nor shall it exceed three hundred (300) percent for buildings of more than one story.
78.4.
Other Requirements - The requirements of Section 76.4 shall apply.
78.5.
Special Exceptions - Upon application, payment of special exceptions fee, and after due notice and public hearing, the Zoning Board of Appeals may authorize this issuance of a building permit for the following uses when the conditions described hereinafter are found to exist. Where variance(s) are also requested as a part of this application, the justification - rationale and reasons for such variances may be approved by the Board of Appeals as part of the special exception approval process.
(a)
Combination of residences (dwellings) with any use permitted herein, provided that the following conditions are met:
(1)
All dwelling units have direct access to the street;
(2)
A single-family residence shall not be located on the first floor of any building;
(3)
In all cases, the commercial use occurring within the building shall be one that is not considered by reason of materials that are used or products that are made on the premises, to be hazardous;
(4)
Prior to residential occupancy, alterations as required shall be made to insure that the building will comply with applicable provisions of the Building Code, Fire Code, and other City Ordinances;
(5)
Parking requirements of Section 68 shall be met for residences; and
(6)
The Density, lot area, setbacks (yards), and other regulations of the district in which the proposed combination of use is to be located must be met.
78.6.
Conditional Uses. Upon application and payment of any fee, the Building Inspector may issue a building permit for the following permitted uses provided that the subsequent conditions are met.
(1)
The manufacturer, compounding, processing, packaging, treatment or assembly and storage thereof, in combination with retail sales thereof, of any product which does not produce offensive odors, glare, dust or heat and which does not produce noise or vibration at any boundary of the lot on which such use is located in excess of the average intensity of street or traffic noise or privation at that point, and, all such use is wholly within an enclosed structure; Such mixed use or combination of uses (retail and light manufacturing) shall be provided on the lot in accordance with Section 68.
(a)
Such combination of uses (retail and light manufacturing) in the Building shall be arranged such that retail sales or retail service delivery use of the product manufactured shall occupy (1) the entire front part (width) and (2) at least ten (10) percent of the total building area occupied by both uses.
(b)
Parking for such combination of uses (retail and light manufacturing) Shall be provided on the lot in accordance with Section 68.
(c)
Such combination of uses (retail and light manufacturing) shall not cause an environmental hazard of any kind.
(d)
The retail use shall be maintained and operated in the front of the building while the light manufacturing continues as a legal business in the remaining part of the building. (The front part of the building shall be for purposes of this section, the part closest to the entrance abutting the sidewalk or street. If more than one entrance should meet this definition, then the building inspector may designate which entrance shall be considered for purpose of this subsection.)
(e)
In all cases, the manufacturing use occurring within the building shall be one that is not considered by reason of materials that are used or products that are made on the premises, to be hazardous.
(f)
The lot and year requirements of Section 78.3 must be met.
Sec. 79. - IND Industrial District.
79.1.
Intent of District. The ID Industrial District is established to develop and reserve land for non-nuisance industrial uses which are not significantly objectionable in terms of noise, odor, fumes, etc. to surrounding properties. The intentions as applied to this district are designed to:
(a)
Encourage the development and continued use of land for limited types of commercial and industrial buildings;
(b)
Prohibit the use of land for residential, retail commercial and nuisance types of industries which would pre-empt land intended to be preserved for limited industrial uses with the City;
(c)
Discourage the location of residences in an area inappropriate for such uses; and
(d)
Encourage the discontinuance of existing uses that would not be permitted as new uses under the provisions of this article.
79.2.
Permitted Uses.
(a)
Any conditional uses permitted in the C-2 Highway Commercial District.
(b)
Public buildings, facilities or land.
(c)
Transportation terminals.
(d)
Storage buildings and warehouses.
(e)
Research or experimental laboratories.
(f)
The following use when conducted wholly within a completed enclosed building or within an area enclosed on all sides with a solid wall, compact hedge or uniformly painted board fence, no less than six (6) feet in height:
(1)
Building materials sales yards, including the sale of Rock, sand, gravel, and the like as an incidental part Of the principal use, but excluding concrete mixing.
(2)
Contractor's and general equipment storage yards or Plants, or rental equipment commonly used by contractor's.
(3)
Retail lumber yards, including only incidental millwork.
(4)
Feed Yards.
(5)
Coal and fuel yards.
(6)
Pipe yards or storage, sale and rental of oil or gas well Drilling equipment.
(g)
Any industrial use which involves manufacturing, processing, assembly, or storage operations, provided that: (1) said operations in no way involves any junk or salvage operations; (2) that there is no open storage of junk or salvageable materials; and (3) that any noise, vibration, smoke, gas, fumes, odor, dust, fire hazard, dangerous radiation or other injurious or obnoxious conditions related to the operations are not sufficient to create a nuisance beyond the premises.
(h)
Practice of Agriculture and Forestry.
(i)
Accessory uses.
(j)
Planned Unit Development meeting the requirements of Section 714.
(k)
Signs: Class 4,5,6; choice of two styles of class 4; and one choice of one class 5 or class 6.
79.3.
Lot and Yard Requirements.
(a)
Minimum Front and Side Yards on Streets. The front and side walls of the main structure shall be set back from the right-of-way line of the streets as follow*:
EXPAND
Major Street 30 ft.
Collector Street 20 ft.
Minor Street 15 ft.
  *See Section 618 Special Building Setbacks for other requirements.
(b)
Side Yard Not on Street. Where adjacent fireproof walls are used, no side yard Is required. Otherwise, the side wall of the main structure shall be set back is Least fifteen (15) feet from the side property line or twenty-five (25) feet from Any adjacent structure, whichever is greater, provided that the distance between Structures shall be increased by three feet for each story of each structure in excess Of two stories. Wherever a property line abuts a railway right-of-way, this setback Requirement may be waived for the sole purpose of providing a facility for direct Loading and unloading between railway car and building.
(c)
Minimum Rear Yard. The rear wall of the main structure shall be set back at least twenty-five (25) feet from the rear line. Wherever a property line abuts a railway right-of-way, this setback requirement may be waived for the sole purpose of providing a facility for direct loading and unloading between railway car and building.
(d)
Maximum Height. No structure shall exceed sixty (60) feet in height, except upon approval of the City of Pearson Fire Department.
(e)
Planted Buffer. A planted buffer strip is required within setbacks adjoining residential uses and meeting the requirements of Section 610.1.
(f)
Floor Area Ratio. Maximum floor area ratio, including any parking space within The structure, shall not exceed fifty (50) percent for single-story buildings nor Shall it exceed one hundred (100) percent for building of more than one story. The Ground area occupied by the principal and accessory structures shall not exceed Fifty (50) percent of the total zoning lot area.
79.4.
Other Requirements. The requirements in Section 76.4 shall apply.
Sec. 79.5. - GI General Industrial District.
79.5.1.
Intent of District. The GI General Industrial District is established as a district to provide land for intensive/manufacturing industrial uses, including those which may be objectionable in terms of noise, odor, fumes, etc., to surrounding properties. The intentions as applied to this district are designed to:
(a)
Encourage the development and continued use of land for heavy commercial and industrial purposes;
(b)
Prohibit the use of land for residential, retail commercial or similar uses which would pre-empt land intended to be preserved or industrial uses, in order to achieve a favorable balance of land uses within the County;
(c)
Discourage the location of residences in an area inappropriate for such uses; and
(d)
Encourage the discontinuance of existing uses that would not be permitted as new uses under the provisions of this article.
79.5.2.
Permitted Uses.
(a)
Any uses permitted in the LI Limited Industrial District.
(b)
Railroad freight classification yard, repair shops and related railroad facilities.
(c)
Mobile home manufacturing.
(d)
Utility stations and facilities subject to the provisions of Section 706.2(e).
(e)
The manufacturing, compounding, processing, refining and treatment of materials and products such as the following: Acetylene, alcohol, asphalt, brick, tile or terra cotta, concrete products or mixing, electricity, oil cloth or linoleum, paint, shellac, Turpentine, lacquer or varnish, pulp or paper, petroleum products, plastics, tar or Tar products, tobacco products, wood preserving, furniture, wood, leather and metal products.
(f)
Any use such as the following, provided that no principal structure is located closer than 500 feet to any District in which it is not a permitted use:
(1)
Cement, lime, gypsum of plaster or paris manufacture.
(2)
Drop forge industry.
(3)
Any uses involving a punch press over 20 tons rated capacity or a screw machine.
(4)
Fertilizer manufacturing.
(5)
Soap manufacturing
(6)
Slaughter or packing of animals or feed products.
(g)
Accessory uses.
79.5.3.
Lot Requirements.
(a)
Minimum Front and Side Yards on Streets. The front and side walls of the main structure shall be set back from the right-of-way line of the street as follows:
EXPAND
Major Street 30 ft.
Collector Street 20 ft.
Minor Street 15 ft.
  (b)
Side Yard Not on Street. The side wall of the main structure shall be set back at Least fifteen (15) feet from the side property line or twenty-five (25) feet from Any adjacent structure, whichever is greater, provided that the distance between Structures in excess of two (2) stories. Wherever a property line abuts a railway Right-of-way, this setback requirement may be waived for the sole purpose of Providing a facility for direct loading and unloading between railway car and building.
(c)
Minimum Rear Yard. The rear wall of the main structure shall be set back at least twenty-five (25) feet from the rear property line. Wherever a property line abuts a railway right-of-way, this setback requirement may be waived for the sole purpose of providing a facility for direct loading and unloading between railway car and building.
(d)
Maximum Height. No structure shall exceed sixty (60) feet, except upon approval Of the City of Pearson Fire Department.
(e)
Planted Buffer. A planted buffer strip is required within setbacks adjoining residential uses and meeting the requirements of Section 610.
(f)
Floor Area Ratio. Maximum floor area ratio, including any parking space within The structure, shall not exceed 50 percent for single-story buildings nor shall it Exceed 100 percent for buildings of more than one story. The ground area occupied By the principal and accessory structures shall not exceed 50 percent of the total zoning lot area.
Sec. 79.5.4. - IP Industrial Park District.
79.5.4.
Intent of District. The IP Industrial Park District is established to provide high standards of design, land use intensity and open spaces for selected, non-nuisance and compatible industrial uses on land which is reserved and improved for unified and harmonious industrial development. The specific intentions of the regulatory provisions as applied to this district are to:
(a)
Encourage the development and continued use of land for selected types of intensive/heavy commercial and limited industrial buildings served by adequate public facilities and services;
(b)
Prohibit the use of land for residential, retail commercial and nuisance types of industries which would pre-empt land intended for selected industrial uses in the city;
(c)
Protect to the greatest extent possible adjacent residential, commercial and public areas;
(d)
Encourage the discontinuance of existing uses that would not be permitted as New uses under the provisions of this Article.
79.5.5.
Permitted Uses.
(a)
Public buildings, facilities or land.
(b)
Transportation terminals.
(c)
Storage buildings and warehouses.
(d)
Research or experimental laboratories.
(e)
Storage of any products or supplies eventually to be sold at retail, provided that no unusual fire or safety hazards are created, no live animals are sold and no junk, wrecked automobiles, second-hand equipment or other salvage materials or dead animals are stored or sold on the premises, and all merchandise is stored wholly within an enclosed structure.
(f)
Any industrial use which involves manufacturing, compounding, processing, packaging, treatment or assembly operations, provided that said operations do not produce offensive odors, glare, dust or heat and do not produce noise or vibration at any boundary of the district in which such use is located in excess of the average intensity of street or traffic noise or vibration at that point.
(g)
Accessory uses such as day-care, banks, restaurants and recreational amenities.
(h)
Signs: Class 9-Wall, projecting, roof or free-standing business signs single-faced or double-faced, and individual letter business signs shall meet the following standards:
Wall, Projecting, Roof, Free-Standing:
1)
The maximum sign area required for wall, projecting, roof or Free-standing business signs shall equal the larger sign area allowed for any one sign;
2)
All such business signs are limited to the following:
(a)
Building having a street frontage of 50 feet or less in width shall have no more than 100 sq. feet in sign area: Individual Letter Signs:
3)
Individual Letter Signs are limited to the following:
(a)
A maximum letter or insignia height of 36 inches; and
(b)
Any illumination comes from a concealed light source.
79.5.6.
Prohibited Uses
(a)
Solid waste handling and storage.
(b)
Landfill (solid waste disposal).
(c)
Permanent hazardous or toxic waste storage.
(d)
Hazardous or toxic waste incineration.
(e)
Wholesale outlets selling to retail customers.
79.5.7.
Lot and Yard Requirements
a)
Minimum Front and Side Yard on Streets. The front and side walls of the main structure shall be set back from the right-of-way line of the street as follows:
EXPAND
Major Street 50 feet
Collector Street 40 feet
Minor Street 40 feet
  b)
Side Yard Not on Street. The side wall of the main structure shall be set back at least thirty (30) feet from the side property line. Wherever a property line abuts a railway right-of-way, this setback requirement may be waived for the sole purpose of providing a facility for direct loading and unloading between railway car and building.
c)
Minimum Rear Yard. The rear of the main structure shall be set back at least forty (40) feet from the rear property line. Wherever a property line abuts a railway right-of-way, this setback requirement may be waived for the sole purpose of providing a facility for direct loading and unloading between railway cars and building.
d)
In each of the yards (setbacks) described above, no building structure or obstruction shall be erected or maintained on any land abutting within fifteen (15) feet of the top of the bank of any canal which is part of the Pearson Drainage Canal,, including without limitation, additions, extensions and modifications thereto, and all parts of the Pearson storm water canal system.
e)
Maximum Height. No structure shall exceed sixty (60) feet in height, except upon approval of the City of Pearson Fire Department.
f)
Planted Buffer. A plant buffer strip is required within setbacks adjoining residential uses and meeting the applicable requirements of Section 610.1. Such buffer strip shall be composed of and maintained with healthy plants which possess growth characteristics of such a nature so as to provide within five (5) years, a planting screen not less than five (5) feet wide and not less than six (6) feet high.
g)
Floor Area Ratio. Maximum floor area ratio, including any parking space within the structure, shall not exceed fifty (50) percent for single-story buildings nor shall it exceed one hundred (100) percent for buildings of more than one story. The ground area occupied by the principal and accessory structures shall not exceed fifty (50) percent of the total zoning lot area.
79.5.8.
Other Requirements.
a)
All Development. The following requirements shall pertain to all permitted uses:
1)
Lighting. Any floodlights used to illuminate the premises are directed and/or shielded so as not to be an annoyance to any adjacent residential district.
2)
Noise. Any regularly recurring noises connected with the activity and detectable by the human sense of hearing, without instruments, shall not exceed the normal noise level generated by uses permitted within the adjacent residential district.
3)
Access: Access to the activities is provided primarily from a major or collector street as designated on the Zoning Maps except the secondary access may be provided from a minor street.
b)
Group Development. Two or more principal buildings or principal uses as permitted within the zoning district in which the proposed development is located, on one or more contiguous lots are permitted in accordance with the following additional standards:
1)
Street Access. Any building established as a part of a group development which cannot be served from an abutting street shall be made accessible to vehicles by a paved driveway having a roadbed width of not less than twenty (20) feet, exclusive of parking spaces.
2)
Setback Requirements. All buildings and structures established as a part of a group development shall comply with the front yard setbacks and the exterior rear yard requirements established for the district in which located.
3)
Site Development Plat. A site development plat showing location of buildings with their proposed use, location of access ways, setback lines, parking and buffers shall be submitted for review with the request for building permit.
ARTICLE VIII. - SIGNS

Sec. 81. - Scope of regulations.
The regulations herein set forth shall apply and govern in all districts. No sign shall be erected or maintained unless it is in compliance with the regulations of this Ordinance and Article and those of relevant State and Federal authorities.
Sec. 82. - General requirements.
82.1.
Building Permit. A building permit shall be required for the placement erection, alteration or reconstruction of any sign as defined and required in this Ordinance.
82.2.
Materials. Signs must be constructed of durable materials maintained in good condition and either moved or replaced when their condition deteriorates to the point that they have a blighting effect on the surrounding area or they constitute a hazard to the safety, health or welfare of the general public.
82.3.
Illumination. Illumination devices shall be so placed and shielded that the direct light rays there from (or from the sign itself) shall not be cast into the eyes of any passing motorist.
82.4.
Roof Signs. Where signs are permitted on roofs, no such sign shall extend more than twenty-five (25) feet above the roof.
82.5.
Projecting Signs. Projecting signs shall not be located closer than two (2) feet to a vertical plane parallel to the outer edge of the street curb line and not extending into any state or federal highway right-of-way.
82.6.
[Conformance with Federal and State Requirements.] All signs subject to conformance with the Georgia Outdoor Advertising Control Act, shall meet federal and state requirements and shall meet any additional requirements necessary to obtain a permit.
82.7.
Signs for Which a Permit Is Not Required.
(a)
Political Signs and posters provided that:
(1)
No such sign exceed thirty-two (32) square feet in area;
(2)
They are non-animated or non-flashing; and,
(3)
No banner or paper or cloth is used; and,
(4)
No sign or poster is erected more than one hundred twenty (120) days preceding the election to which it relates and all such signs and posters erected are removed within fifteen (15) days following the election to which the sign relates.
(b)
Signs advertising the sale or rental of the premises on which they are located, provided they do not exceed six (6) square feet in area.
(c)
Traffic, directional, warning or information signs authorized or erected by any public agency.
(d)
Official notices issued by any court, public agency or officer.
Sec. 83. - Yard (setback) requirements for all signs.
83.1.
All signs shall meet setback requirements for the zoning district in which the signs are located, except that business signs may be set back at least three (3) feet from the front and side property lines. This section shall not apply where additional setback is required.
83.2.
Class 5 and Class 6 signs located on lots/property that adjoins a residential district and/or historic preservation district shall be set back at least 75 feet from a residential property line.
Sec. 84. - Prohibited signs.
84.1.
Flashing Lights. No signs shall display intermittent or flashing lights similar to or resembling the color, size, shape or order of any lights used in traffic signals or on emergency vehicles.
84.2.
No sign shall use the words stop, danger, caution, yield or any other similar phrase that might mislead or confuse a passing motorist.
84.3.
No sign shall be placed where it might interfere with the ability of passing motorists to read traffic control signals or devices.
84.4.
Class 8 mobile signs are prohibited in all districts except C-1 where they are allowed for display for a maximum of ninety (90) days and non-display for a minimum of ninety (90) days.
84.5.
No illuminated business or advertising sing where the direct rays from the light source shine directly into a residential, office or medical district shall be erected within three hundred (300) feet of any such district.
84.6.
No sign of any kind shall be erected or maintained so as to obstruct any fire escape, window, drive or opening used as a means of ingress and/or egress for fire escape purposes or be so placed as to interfere with any required openings for ventilation.
84.7.
No signs, except traffic signs and signals and informational signs erected by a public agency, are permitted within any street or highway right-of-way.
84.8.
Signs painted or attached to natural features (such as trees or rocks), telephone poles, or fence posts are prohibited.
84.9.
Fluttering ribbons and banners are prohibited.
84.10.
Signs within 300 feet of any officially designated historical site or monument, except signs pertaining to that particular site or monument, are prohibited.
Sec. 85. - Sign classification.
85.1.
Class 1. Wall signs, single-faced, on the principal building indicating the name and/or address of the occupant, a permitted home occupation or profession, provided they are no larger than one (1) square foot in area. Only one (1) such sign per dwelling unit shall be permitted except on corner lots where one (1) sign shall be permitted for each side of the structure facing a street.
85.2.
Class 2. Free standing and wall signs, single-faced, identifying apartment buildings, hotels, boarding and rooming houses, churches, clubs, lodges, office buildings, nurseries, kindergartens, schools, hospitals, sanitariums, cemeteries or other similar institutional uses, whether of a public, semi-public or private nature, may be erected provided:
(a)
The size of any such sign does not exceed twenty (20) square feet;
(b)
Only one (1) such sign is placed on the premises on any side of the structure fronting on a street;
(c)
Any such sign erected shall be set back at least ten (10) feet from the street right-of-way; and,
(d)
Any illumination comes from an indirect light source.
85.3.
Class 3. Typical "Free-Standing Double Faced" monument signs used for identifying shopping centers and commercial strips provided:
(a)
The primary sign area shall contain no more than 100 square feet of sign area; and,
(b)
Each occupant business located within the area shall have no more than 30 square feet index sign affixed to the primary sign described above.
85.4.
Class 4. Wall, Projecting, Roof or free-standing business signs single-faced or double-faced, and individual letter business signs shall meet the following standards:
Wall, Projecting, Roof, Free-Standing:
(1)
The maximum sign area required for wall, projecting, roof or free-standing business signs shall equal the larger sign area allowed for any one sign;
(2)
All such business signs are limited to the following:
(a)
Buildings having a street frontage of 50 feet or less in width shall have no more than 150 square feet in sign area;
(b)
Buildings having a street frontage of more than 50 feet in width shall have no more than 150 square feet of sign area plus one square foot of sign are for each foot of building width in excess of 50 feet;
(c)
Any gasoline service station may have, in addition to the above, one Pylon type sign not exceeding 40 feet in height or 80 square feet in Area. In no case shall the sign exceed the height limitations of the District in which it is located.
Individual Letter Signs
(3)
Individual Letter Signs are limited to the following:
(a)
A maximum letter or insignia height of 36 inches; and
(b)
Any illumination comes from a concealed light source.
85.5.
Class 5. Single-faced wall advertising sign, provided:
(a)
A side wall of a building having unobstructed visual access to a street for a distance of less than fifty (50) feet along that street, shall have no more than three hundred (300) square feet of sign area;
(b)
The side wall of a building having unobstructed visual access to a street for a distance of more than fifty (50) feet along that street shall have no more than three hundred (300) square feet of sign area, plus one (1) square foot of sign area for each foot of building width in excess of fifty (50) feet.
85.6.
Class 6. Single, back-to-back, or double-faced (laterally adjoining or two stacked vertically) adjoining ground or roof advertising signs, provided:
(a)
An advertising structure designed for placing of one panel per side shall contain not more than three hundred (300) square feet of sign area per side; an advertising structure designed for placing of two panels or one painted bulletin per side shall contain not more than 600 square feet of sign area per side;
(b)
There is no other Class 6 sign within two hundred fifty (250) feet; or if the sign has two laterally adjoining or two stacked (vertically adjoining) panels, there is no other Class 6 sign within five hundred (500) feet on the same side of the road. provided, however that the stacked or vertically adjoining panels shall not exceed two in number.
(c)
Outdoor Advertising Signs. Outdoor Advertising Signs, each having a maximum area of 300 square feet and as otherwise regulated in the Pearson Zoning Ordinance.
(4)
No billboard-outdoor advertising-signs shall be placed on buildings.
(5)
Signs shall not be located in the front 10 feet of the landscaped strip that borders/faces Hwy. 82.
(6)
Georgia DOT's Outdoor Advertising Ordinance Regulations shall be met.
(7)
Not more than two (2) lateral sign panels (maximum of 300 square feet each) are allowed at one site/sign location facing one direction. However, each sign panel can be backed by another panel facing the opposite direction.
(8)
Single panel outdoor advertising sign shall be placed (no closer than) 1,000' apart. Sites having two (2) lateral sign panels shall be placed (no closer than) at least 2,000' apart.
(9)
Sign design shall be reviewed by a Pearson Board of Review which shall follow approval and organization procedures as set up below. The purpose of the review of signs is to help maintain the attractive appearance of Pearson, to protect tourism and other individual, community and development assets.
(i)
Certificate of Approval Required. A Certificate of Approval issued by the building inspector upon order of the Board of Review shall be required before a building permit is issued for the erection or display of any lot or building of an outdoor advertising sign, within 100 feet of the rights-of-way of Hwy. 82.
(ii)
Application for Certificate of Approval. The Application for a Certificate of Approval shall be delivered with the supporting information and material to the Board of Review for consideration. The Board shall act upon the application within thirty (30) days after the filing of the application. No action shall be deemed as approval, and a Certification of Approval shall be issued. Once the Certificate of Approval has been issued, the application, shall be Processed in the same manner as a building permit. If the Board of Review Disapproves the application, the Certificate of Approval shall not be issued. The Board shall inform the applicant of such disapproval in writing and state the reasons therefore.
(iii)
Board of Review. The Board of Review shall consist of five (5) members appointed by the Pearson City Commission. Their terms of office shall be for 3 years each and overlapping. Initially, two members shall have two-year terms, and one member shall have a three-year term.
85.7.
Class 7. Class 7 wall, projecting or free standing business signs single-faced or double-faced and individual letter business signs, provided:
(a)
A maximum size of one square foot per each front foot of the principal building Width shall apply to wall or projecting signs. In addition, the same maximum footage shall apply to free-standing signs separately signs separately from the other signs listed below.
(b)
Individual letter signs shall conform to provisions of Section 85
(c)
Only one free-standing sign and only one wall, projecting, or in letter business sign is used for each street front of the zoning lot the use is located.
85.8.
Class 8. Mobile Business Signs, single or double-faced provide requirements of Section 84.4 and following are met:
(a)
Shall have a maximum size of fifteen (15) square feet for each
(b)
There is only one (1) sign for each zoning lot on which the sign
(c)
Has no flashing lights and any illumination comes from a concealed source;
(d)
Shall be set back at least five (5) feet from street right-of-way
(e)
All electrical hook-ups shall be approved by City Building Inspector
(f)
[Grounds for use variance]
There are extraordinary and exceptional conditions pertaining to the particular piece of property in question because of its size, shape or topography, and
The application of this Ordinance to this particular piece of property would create an unnecessary hardship, and
Such conditions are peculiar to the particular piece of property involved, and
Relief, if granted, would not cause substantial detriment to the public good or impair the purposes and intent of this Ordinance, and
The special circumstances surrounding the request for a variance are not the result of acts by the applicant, and
The variance is not a request to permit a use of land, buildings or structures which is not permitted by right or by special exception in the district involved.
(1)
Use Variances Prohibited. No variance may be granted for use of land or premises.
(2)
Procedures for Requesting a Variance. Requests for a variance shall be filed in writing with the Building Official. Within ten (10) days after receiving a request for a variance, the Building Official shall:
•
Send the request, with any comments he may deem necessary added thereto, to the Secretary of the Board.
•
Cause to have posted in a conspicuous place on the property, one (1) or more signs, each of which shall not be less than twelve (12) square feet in area, and each of which shall contain information as to the proposed change and the date and time of the public hearings before the Board.
(d)
Action One Appeals. In exercising the above powers, the Board may, in conformity with the provisions of this Ordinance, reverse or affirm, wholly or in part, or may modify the order, requirements, decisions, or determinations of the Building, Official and, to that end, shall have all the powers of the Building Official and may issue or direct the issuance of a permit.
(e)
Appeals. How Taken. Appeals to the Board may be taken by any person aggrieved, or by an officer, department, Board or bureau of the City of Pearson, Georgia, affected by any decision of the Building Official or other officials based on this Ordinance. Such appeals shall be taken within a reasonable time, as provided by the rules of the Board, by filing with the Building Official and any other city official involved, and with the Board, a written notice of appeal specifying the grounds there for.
The Building Official shall forthwith transmit to the Board all papers constituting the record upon which the action appealed from was taken.
ARTICLE IX. - ADMINISTRATION, ENFORCEMENT, PENALTIES

Sec. 90. - Enforcing officer.
The provisions of this Ordinance shall be administered and enforced by a Building Official who shall be an employee of the City of Pearson. The duties of the Building Official shall include receiving applications, inspecting premises and issuing building permits and certificates of occupancy for uses and structures that meet the requirement of this Zoning Ordinance and are in accordance with the provisions of the Building Code.
Sec. 91. - Building permits.
Building permits shall be issued in accordance with the following provisions:
91.1.
Building Permit Required. It shall be unlawful to commence the excavation or filling of any lot for any construction of any building or to commence the moving or alteration of any building or to commence the development of land for a use not requiring a building until the Building Official has issued a building permit for such work.
91.2.
Issuance of Building Permit. In applying to the Building Official for a building permit, the applicant shall submit two (2) copies of a dimensioned sketch or scale plan signed by the owner or his authorized agent, indicating the shape, size, and location of the lot to be built upon, the shape, size, heights, use and location of the buildings to be erected, demolished, altered or moved and of any buildings already on the lot, the number of dwelling units the building is designed to accommodate, if any, the setback lines of buildings on adjoining lots and such other information concerning the lot or adjoining lots as may be essential for determining whether the provisions of this Ordinance are [to] be observed.
If the proposed excavation, filling, construction or movement as set forth in said sketch or plan is in conformity with the provisions of this Ordinance and other Ordinances of the City of Pearson, Georgia, then in force, the Building Official shall sign and return one copy of the sketch or plan to the applicant and issue a building permit upon payment of any required fees. The Building Official shall retain one (1) copy of the building permit and one (1) copy of the sketch or plan.
91.3.
Refusal of Building Permit. If the sketch or plan submitted describes work which does not conform to the requirements of this ordinance, the Building Official shall not issue a building permit, but he shall return one (1) copy of the sketch or plan to the applicant along with the signed refusal in writing. Such refusal shall state the reasons therefor and shall cite the portions of this Ordinance with the submitted sketch or plan does not comply. The Building Official shall retain one (1) copy of the sketch or plan and two (2) copies of the refusal.
(f)
Public Hearings on Appeals. The Board shall fix a reasonable time for the hearing of appeals or other matters referred to it, and give at least fifteen (15) days public notice thereof, as well as due notice to the parties in interest, and decide the same within a reasonable time. Upon a hearing, any party may appear in person, or by agent, or by attorney.
(g)
Stay of Proceedings. An appeal stays all legal proceedings in furtherance of the action appealed from, unless the Building Official certifies to the Board after the notice of appeal shall have been filed with him that, by reason of facts stated in the certificate, a stay would , in his opinion, cause imminent peril of life and property. In such case, proceedings shall not be stayed otherwise than by a restraining order which may be granted by the Board or by a court of competent jurisdiction on notice to the official from whom the appeal is taken and on due cause shown.
(h)
Explanation of Decisions. On all appeals, applications or other matters, the Board shall inform, in writing, all parties involved of its decision and the reasons thereof.
(i)
Duties of Building Official, Board of Zoning Appeals, City Commission and Courts, on Matters of Appeals. It is the intent of this Ordinance, that all questions arising in connection with the enforcement or the interpretation of this Ordinance, (except as otherwise expressly provided in this Ordinance) shall be first presented to the Building Official; and that such questions shall be presented to the Board of Zoning Appeals only on appeals from the Building Official, and that from the decisions of the Board of Zoning Appeals, recourse shall be taken to the Courts as provided by law.
91.4.
Fees. The following fees shall be paid with application by check made out to the City of Pearson in the following amounts:
(a)
Administrative review: $30.00
(b)
Special Exceptions: $50.00
(c)
Variances: $50.00
Sec. 91.5. - Amendments.
91.5.
Authority. The City Commission of Pearson may amend this Ordinance including the Zoning Maps, in accordance with the procedures herein specified.
91.6.
Initiation of Amendments. A petition for a zoning amendment may be initiated by:
(a)
The Commission of the City of Pearson.
(b)
Any Department or Agency of the City.
(c)
Any other person or agency, providing the petition is accompanied by a payment of one hundred ($100.00) dollars, payable to the City of Pearson, to defray costs of processing and erecting signs. In no case shall a petition for a zoning amendment affecting the same parcel of land be submitted more often than once every twelve (12) months.
91.7.
Submittal of Amendments. Any person or persons or agency desiring to submit a petition requesting a change in the Official Zoning Map shall file such petition, together with an accurate legal description of the property tied to a permanent location and a plat, survey or other drawing that accurately describes the property together with the rezoning fee at the Pearson Codes Enforcement Office, City Hall.
91.8.
A Review By the Planning Commission. Unless initiated by that body, all petitions for zoning amendments shall be submitted to the Pearson Planning Commission for study and review. From the date of submittal, the Commission shall have not more than thirty (30) days in which to submit a written report to the City Commission setting forth their findings and recommendations. If the Planning Commission fails to submit a written report within that period, it shall be deemed to have approved the proposed amendment.
91.9.
Public Hearing. Before enacting an amendment to this Ordinance, the City Commission of Pearson shall hold a public hearing thereon. At least fifteen (15) days notice of the time and place of such a public hearing shall be published in a newspaper of general circulation in the City of Pearson.
92.
Signs. Whenever a proposed amendment to this Ordinance involves changing the zoning classification of property from one type of district to another, the Building Official shall cause to have posted in a conspicuous place on said property, one or more signs, each of which shall not be less than twelve (12) square feet in area, and each of which shall contain information as to the proposed change and the date, time and place of the public hearing before the City Commission. No such public hearings shall take place until said signs have been posted at least fifteen (15) days.
93.
Withdrawal of Amendment Petition. Any petition for an amendment to this Ordinance may be withdrawn at any time at the discretion of the person or agency initiating such a request upon written notice to the City Clerk. The City Commission may refund any portion of the aforementioned one hundred ($100.00) dollar payment as it deems necessary and may retain the remainder in the City Treasury in order to defray any costs incurred.
94.
Zoning Policies and Procedures for Public Hearings and Zoning Decisions Standards.
(a)
Policies and Procedures for Calling and Conducting Public Hearings on Proposed Zoning Actions. Whenever the Commission of the City of Pearson calls and conducts a public hearing on a Proposed amendment to the text of the Pearson Zoning Ordinance or to the Official Zoning Map, The Commission of the City of Pearson shall abide by the following policies and procedures.
(1)
Calling the Hearing:
(a)
Notice: At least 15 but not more than 45 days prior to the date of the hearing, the City Commission shall publish a notice of the hearing in the local newspaper. The notice shall state the time, place, and purpose of the hearing. If the hearing concerns a proposed amendment to the Official Zoning Map, then the notice shall also state the location of the property, the present zoning classification and the proposed zoning classification.
(b)
Sign: If the hearing concerns a proposed amendment to the Official Zoning Map, then at least 15 days prior to the date of the hearing the Building
Official or his designee shall post a sign in a conspicuous place on the Property. The sign shall state the time, place and purpose of the hearing, the present zoning classification and the proposed zoning classification.
(c)
Agenda: At least 15 days prior to the date of the hearing, the City Clerk shall prepare an agenda of the proposed amendments to be considered at the hearing. Copies of the agenda and the Planning Commission report on each proposed amendment shall be available for public review in the City Clerk's office during regular office hours for a period of at least 15 days prior to the date of the hearing.
(2)
Conducting the Hearing. The Mayor or his designee shall open the hearing at the time and place specified in the hearing notice. The rules of the hearing shall be announced before proceeding to address the proposed amendments listed on the agenda. For each proposed amendment:
(a)
The City Clerk shall read aloud the published and posted notice of the hearing;
(b)
The Presiding Officer shall call upon the City Clerk or the Planning Director to read aloud the report to summarize the Planning Commission;
(c)
The Petitioner for rezoning shall have 10 minutes in which to Present reasons why the proposed rezoning should be approved;
Sec. 97. - Board of zoning appeals.
97.1.
Appointment. The Board of Zoning Appeals of the City of Pearson, Georgia, (hereinafter called the "Board"), is hereby established in accordance with the provisions of this ordinance. Said Board shall consist of five (5) members appointed by the commission of the City of Pearson. The members shall serve for overlapping terms of three (3) years or until succeeded or dismissed by the Mayor of the City of Pearson. No member shall hold any other office or position, except that one (1) member shall also be a member of the Planning Commission. Any vacancy in the membership shall be filled for the un-expired term in the same manner as the initial appointments. Members shall be removable for cause by the appointing authority upon written charges and after a public hearing. No compensation shall be paid to members of the Board except that each member receive up to $10.00 a month for expense.
97.2.
Authority. The Board shall have jurisdiction of certain matters arising in connection with the administration, enforcement or interpretation of this Ordinance, as herein provided.
97.3.
Procedure. The Board shall elect one of its members as Chairman, who shall serve for one (1) year, or until he or she is re-elected or their successor is elected. The Board shall appoint a secretary who may be an officer of the governing authority or of the Planning Commission. The Board shall adopt rules in accordance with the provisions of this ordinance.
Meetings of the Board shall be held at the call of the Chairman and at such other times as the Board may determine.
The Chairman, or in his absence, acting Chairman, may administer oaths and compel the attendance of witness by subpoena. All meetings of the Board shall be open to the public. No member of the Board shall participate in a hearing when he has a pecuniary or special interest.
The Board shall keep minutes of its proceedings, showing the vote of each member upon each question, or if absent or failing to vote, indicating such fact, and shall keep records of examination and other official actions, all of which shall be immediately filed in the office of the Board and shall be a public record.
97.4.
Powers & Duties. The Board shall have the following powers:
(a)
Administrative Review. To hear and decide appeals where it is alleged there is error in any order, requirement, decision, or determination of the Building Official in the enforcement of this Ordinance.
(b)
Special Exceptions. To hear and decide applications for special exceptions if specified In the Ordinance and for decision on any questions upon which the Board is authorized by this Ordinance to pass. When acting upon such application for Special Exceptions, the Board shall give consideration to the following factors, where applicable:
(1)
The proposed design and location of the particular development.
(2)
The possible traffic generating characteristics of the proposed developments.
(3)
The effects that the proposed development will have on the present or intended character or the area in which it proposes to locate.
(4)
The availability of public utilities, facilities and services. After such considerations, the Board shall take such actions or establish such reasonable conditions of approval, as will accomplish the intents and purposes of this Ordinance.
(c)
Variances. To authorize upon appeal in specific individual cases such variance from terms of this Ordinance as will not be contrary to the public interest where, owing to special conditions, a literal enforcement of the provisions for this Ordinance will, in an individual case, result in unnecessary hardship, so that the spirit of the Ordinance shall be observed, public safety and welfare secured and substantial justice done.
There are extraordinary and exceptional conditions pertaining to the particular piece of property in question because of its size, shape or topography, and
The Application of this Ordinance to this particular piece of property would create an unnecessary hardship, and
Such Conditions are peculiar to the particular piece of property involved, and Relief, if granted, would not cause substantial detriment to the public good or impair the purposes and intent of this Ordinance, and
The Special circumstances surrounding the request for a variance are not the result of acts by the applicant, and
The variance is not a request to permit a use of land, buildings or structures which is not permitted by right or by special exception in the district involved.
(1)
Use Variances Prohibited. No variance may be granted for use of land or premises.
(2)
Procedures for Requesting a Variance. Requests for a variance shall be filed in writing with the Building Official. Within ten (10) days after receiving a request for a variance the Building Official shall:
(a)
Send the request, with any comment he may deem necessary added thereto, to theSecretary of the Board.
(b)
Cause to have posted in a conspicuous place on the property, one (1) or more signs, each of which shall not be less than twelve (12) square feet in area, and each of which shall contain information as to the proposed change and the date and time of the public hearings before the Board.
Fees. The following fees shall be paid with application by check made out to the City of Pearson in the following amounts:
(a)
Administrative Review: $30.00
(b)
Special Exceptions: $50.00
(c)
Variance: $50.00
Sec. 98. - Admendments.
Authority. The City Commission of Pearson may amend this Ordinance including the Zoning Maps, in accordance with the procedures herein specified.
Initiation of Amendments. A petition for a zoning amendment maybe initiated by:
(a)
The Commission of the City of Pearson
(b)
Any Department or Agency of the City.
(c)
Any other person or agency, providing the petition is accompanied by a Payment of one hundred ($100.00) dollars, payable to the City of Pearson, To defray costs of processing and erecting signs. In no case shall a petition For a zoning amendment affecting the same parcel of land be submitted more Often then once every twelve (12) months.
Submittal of Amendments. Any person or persons or agency desiring to submit a petition requesting a change in the Official Zoning Map, shall file such petition, together with an accurate legal description of the property tied to a permanent location and a plat, survey or other drawing that accurately describes the property together with the rezoning fee at the Pearson Code Enforcement Office, City Hall.
A Review by the City Commission. Unless initiated by that body, all petitions for zoning amendments shall be submitted to the Commission for study and review. From the date of submittal, the Commission shall have not more than thirty (30) days in which to submit a written report to the City Commission Setting forth their findings and recommendations. If the City Commission fails to submit a written report within that period, it shall be deemed to have approved the proposed amendment.
Public Hearings. Before enacting an amendment to this Ordinance, the City Commission of Pearson shall hold a public hearing thereon. At least fifteen (15) days notice of the time and place of such a public hearing shall be published in a newspaper of general circulation in the City of Pearson.
Signs. Whenever a proposed amendment to this Ordinance involves changing the zoning classification of property from one type of district to another, the Building Official shall cause to have posted in a conspicuous place on said property, one or more signs, each of which shall not be less than twelve (12) square feet in area, and each of which shall contain information as to the proposed change and the date, time and place of the public hearing before the City Commission. No such public hearings shall take place until said signs have been posted at least fifteen (15) days.
Withdrawal of Amendment Petition. Any petition for an amendment to this Ordinance may be withdrawn at any time at the discretion of the person or agency initiating such a request upon written notice to the City Clerk. The City Commission may refund any portion of the aforementioned one hundred ($100.00) dollar payment as it deems necessary and may retain the remainder in the City Treasury in order to defray any costs incurred.
Zoning Policies and Procedures for Public Hearings and Zoning Decisions Standards
(a)
Policies and Procedures for Calling and Conducting Public Hearings on Proposed Zoning Actions. Whenever the Commission of the City of Pearson, calls and conducts a public hearing on a proposed amendment to the text of the Pearson Zoning Ordinance or to the Official Zoning Map, the Commission of the City of Pearson shall abide by the following policies and procedures.
(1)
Calling the Hearing
(a)
Notice: At least 15 but not more than 45 days prior to the date of the hearing, the City Commission shall publish a notice of the hearing in the local newspaper. The notice shall state the time, place, and purpose of the hearing. If the hearing concerns a proposed amendment to the Official Zoning Map, then the notice shall Also state the location the property, the present zoning classification and the proposed zoning classification.
(b)
Sign: If the hearing concerns a proposed amendment to the Official Zoning Map, then at least 15 days prior to the date of the hearing the Building Official or his designee shall post a sign in a conspicuous place on the property. The sign shall state time, place, and purpose of the hearing, the present zoning classification and the proposed zoning classification.
(c)
Agenda: At least 15 days prior to the date of the hearing, the City Clerk shall prepare an agenda of the proposed amendments to be considered at the hearing. Copies of the agenda and the City Commission report on each proposed amendment shall be available, for public review in the City Clerk's Office during regular office hours for a period of at least 15 days prior to the date of the hearing.
(2)
Conducting the Hearing: The Mayor or his designee shall open the hearing at the time and place specified in the hearing notice. The rules of the hearing shall be announced before proceeding to address the proposed amendment:
(a)
The City Clerk shall read aloud the published and posted notice of the hearing;
(b)
The Presiding Officer shall call upon the City Clerk or the Planning Director to read aloud the report or summarize the report of the City Commission;
(c)
The Petitioner for rezoning shall have 10 minutes in which to present reasons why the proposed rezoning should be approved;
(d)
The opponent of the proposed rezoning shall have 10 minutes in which to present reasons why the proposed rezoning should not be approved. Anyone opposed to the proposed zoning shall register with the City Clerk his opposition in writing prior to the commencement of the public hearing, giving his name, address, telephone number, and that he wishes to appear in opposition to the proposed rezoning. If more than one person should register in opposition to the proposed rezoning, then the one who registers first shall be entitled to use the 10 minutes to present the reasons why the propose rezoning should not be approved; provided, however those in opposition may mutually agree to a division of the allotted ten minutes; further provided that those in opposition, if not allowed use any of the 10 minutes under the provision of this subsection, shall be entitled to present reasons why the proposed rezoning should not be approved under the provisions (f) herein; provided, however, he must satisfy the requirements of said subsection.
(e)
Following the requirements provided for (c) and (d) herein, others who wish to present reasons why the proposed rezoning should be approved (and who have not already appeared before the Commission on the rezoning issue then before the Commission) shall be permitted 3 minutes each to present such reasons. The order of presentation for those qualifying to make a presentation, under this subsection shall be determined by the Mayor or other presiding officer at the meeting.
(f)
Following the presentation provided for in (c), (d), and (e) herein, others who wish to present reasons why the proposed rezoning should not be approved (and who have not already appeared before the Commission on the rezoning issue then before the Commission shall be permitted 3 minutes each to present reasons why the proposed rezoning should not be approved; The order of appearance for those qualifying to make a presentation under this subsection shall be determined by the May or other presiding officer at the meeting.
(b)
Standards to be used in Making Zoning Decisions.
(1)
Whenever the Commission of the City of Pearson makes a final decision, regarding a proposed amendment to the Official Zoning Map, the Commission of the City of Pearson shall balance the interest of the community in promoting the public health, safety, morality, and general welfare against the right of property owners to the unrestricted use of their property. In making zoning decisions, the Commission of the City of Pearson shall use the following standards:
(a)
Whether the proposed amendment would permit a use that is suitable in view of the use and development of adjacent and nearby property
(b)
Whether the proposed amendment would adversely affect the existing use or usability of adjacent or nearby property
(c)
Whether the property to be affected by the proposed amendment has a reasonable economic use as currently zoned
(d)
Whether the proposed amendment would result in a use which would or could cause an excessive or burdensome use of existing streets, transportation facilities, utilities, or schools
(e)
If the City has an adopted land use plan, whether the proposed amendment is in conformity with the policy and intent of the land use plan; however, nothing herein shall prevent a zoning decision which is not in conformity with the policy and intent of such land use plan; and,
(f)
Whether there are other existing or changing conditions affecting the use and development of the property which give supporting ground for either approval or disapproval of the proposed amendment.
(2)
Whenever the Pearson City Commission makes a recommendation regarding a proposed amendment to the Official Zoning Map, it shall use the above standards.
ARTICLE X. - LEGAL STATUS PROVISIONS

CODE COMPARATIVE TABLE
1947 CODE
This table gives the location within this Code of those sections of the 1947 Code which are included herein.
EXPAND
1947 Code
Section Section
this Code
29 34-15
31, 32 34-2, 34-3
33—35 34-4
36—43 34-5—34-12
45, 46 34-13, 34-14
53, 54 58-19, 58-20
56—58 58-21—58-23
60—62 58-24
63 58-25
64 10-2
67 10-4
79 42-19
82 42-20
84 42-21
103 22-29
111 42-22
122—124 54-1—54-3
  CODE COMPARATIVE TABLE
1963 CODE
This table gives the location within this Code of those sections of the 1963 Code which are included herein.
EXPAND
1963 Code
Section Section
this Code
2409 42-31
2501 42-32
2504, 2505 42-28, 42-29
2507 42-33
2509 42-26
2516, 2517 42-34, 42-35
2538, 2539 42-30
  CODE COMPARATIVE TABLE
1975 CODE
This table gives the location within this Code of those sections of the 1975 Code which are included herein. Sections of the 1975 Code not listed herein have been omitted as repealed, superseded, obsolete or not of a general and permanent nature. For the location of ordinances adopted subsequent thereto, see the table immediately following this table.
EXPAND
1975 Code
Section Section
this Code
1-101—1-109 1-1—1-9
2-101—2-105 2-19—2-23
2-201—2-203 2-50—2-52
2-301 14-58
2-401 2-53
3-101—3-108 2-180—2-187
3-111 2-188
3-201 2-107
3-203—3-205 2-108—2-110
3-205A 2-111
3-206—3-212 2-112—2-118
3-215—3-224 2-139—2-148
3-301—3-305 58-19—58-23
3-306—3-308 58-24
3-309 58-25
3-310 58-54
3-310A 58-55
3-311—3-313 58-56—58-58
3-313A 58-59
3-315 58-60
3-316—3-319 6-2—6-5
3-319 6-6—6-10
3-320 6-1
6-11, 6-12
3-401—3-404 2-402—2-405
4-101—4-109 22-21—22-29
4-201, 4-202 46-2, 46-3
4-203(a)—(c) 46-4
4-203(d) 46-6
4-204—4-206 46-7—46-9
4-301—4-310 26-1—26-10
4-401—4-403 50-1—50-3
4-405 50-4
4-501—4-512 66-19—66-30
4-513 66-81
4-514, 4-515 66-82
4-516 66-153—66-165
4-517 66-185—66-198
4-518, 4-519 66-83, 66-84
4-520 66-220—66-226
4-521 66-109—66-122
4-601 14-1
4-602—4-607 14-21—14-26
5-101—5-103 10-2—10-4
5-202—5-208 18-19—18-25
5-209(c) 18-26
5-301 58-84
5-302 58-81
5-303—5-316 58-85—58-98
5-318—5-322 58-99—58-103
5-325 58-104
5-327 58-105
5-401 38-53
5-401-A 38-2
5-402 38-54
5-402-A 38-29—38-32
5-403 38-55
5-501—5-504 38-84—38-87
5-601—5-605 30-23—30-27
5-606 30-1
5-701—5-703 54-1—54-3
5-705 54-4
5-706 54-29
5-707, 5-708 54-41, 54-42
5-801 62-2, 62-3
5-802 62-4
5-803 62-1
5-1001—5-1008 54-73—54-80
5-1101, 5-1102 58-134, 58-135
5-1201 18-56
5-1202—5-1204 18-58—18-60
5-1205 18-57
5-1206—5-1210 18-61—18-65
5-1301—5-1307 18-91—18-97
6-101—6-103 42-19—42-21
6-107 42-22
6-109, 6-110 42-23, 42-24
6-111A 42-25
6-111C 42-59—42-62
6-112, 6-113 42-26, 42-27
6-201—6-203 34-1—34-3
6-204—6-206 34-4
6-207—6-214 34-5—34-12
6-216—6-218 34-13—34-15
  CODE COMPARATIVE TABLE
ORDINANCES AND RESOLUTIONS
This table gives the location within this Code of those ordinances and resolutions which are included herein. Ordinances and resolutions not listed herein have been omitted as repealed, superseded or not a general and permanent nature.
EXPAND
Ord./Res. Date Section Section
this Code
3-10-1953(Ord.) 42-23
9-13-1960(Ord.) 62-4
8-10-1965(Ord.) 42-24
12-21-1967(Ord.) 4 58-86
6-26-1970(Ord.) 5-305, 5-306 58-82, 58-83
7-14-1970(Ord.) 58-83
8-11-1970(Ord.) 1 54-4
2 54-29
3 54-41
1- 8-1971(Ord.) 1—11 66-19—66-29
6-13-1973(Ord.) 66-30
7- 8-1975(Ord.) 62-1
10-12-1976(Ord.) 4-517(b)(3) 66-82
66-185—66-198
4-519(c), (d) 66-84
3- 8-1977(Ord.) 2-146
11- 8-1977(Ord.) 5-306 58-83
4-11-1978(Res.) 42-26
3-13-1979(Ord.) 10-3, 10-4
3-13-1979(Res.) 10-5
1- 8-1980(Ord.) art. I, § 2, 2-232, 2-233
art. I, § 3
art. II, § 1— 2-260—2-262
art. II, § 3
art. III, § 1, 2-289, 2-290
art. III, § 2
art. III, § 4— 2-291—2-294
art. III, § 7
art. III, § 12 2-295
art. IV, § 1— 2-319—2-321
art. IV, § 3
art. V 2-322
art. VI 2-348—2-350
art. VII 2-351
art. VIII 2-212
art. IX 2-378, 2-379
7- 8-1980(Ord.) 54-42
5-19-1981(Ord.) 2-428
7-13-1982(Mo.) 46-3
46-5
6-29-1983(Ord.) 58-83
12-13-1983(Ord.) 58-134, 58-135
9 54-73
9- 8-1986(Res.) 66-31
4-12-1988(Ord.) I 6-4
11-28-1990(Ord.) 62-2, 62-3
3-12-1991(Ord.) 66-49—66-54
8-13-1991(Ord.) 42-25
10- 1-1991(Ord.) 5-401-A 38-2
5-402-A 38-29—38-32
11-12-1992(Mo.) 2-139
1-12-1993(Mo.) 2-139
9-14-1993(Ord.) 10-2—10-4
8- 9-1994(Ord.) 2-141
10-11-1994(Res.) A, B 30-1, 30-2
C—G 30-28—30-32
12-13-1994(Ord.) 1—6 58-54—58-59
11 58-60
11-14-1995(Ord.) 18-56—18-65
12-12-1995(Ord.) 2-140
9-10-1996(Ord.) 1(a)—1(c) 42-59—42-61
2 42-62
7-14-1998(Ord.) 1—5 22-56—22-60
4-13-1999(Ord.) 38-2
6-16-1999(1)(Ord.) 1(a) 6-11
1(b) 6-1
1(c) 6-12
6-16-1999(2)(Ord.) 6-5—6-10
7-13-1999(Ord.) 6-8—6-10
8-10-1999(Ord.) 6-8—6-10
3-26-2001(Ord.) 10-3
10- 9-2001(Ord.) 18-91—18-97
3-12-2002(Ord.) 66-20, 66-21
66-27
9-10-2002(Ord.) 4-523(101) 66-249
4-523(201) 66-250
4-523(301) 66-251
4-523(401) 66-252
4-523(501) 66-253
4-523(601) 66-254
5-11-2004(Ord.) 10-3
App. A, § 70,
App. A, § 71
2- 8-2005(Res.
No. 429) 34-16
2- 8-2005(Res.
No. 430) 46-1
8- 9-2005(Res.) 2-189—2-191
10-11-2005(Ord.) 1 54-72
2—4 54-81—54-83
11- 8-2005(Ord.) 14-27
1-10-2006(Ord.) 1—6 66-49—66-54
2-14-2006(Ord.) App. A, § 70
12-11-2007(Ord.) art. 2, art. 3 66-81, 66-82
4.1—4.14 66-109—66-122
5.1—5.13 66-153—66-165
6.1—6.14 66-185—66-198
art. 7, art. 8 66-83, 66-84
9.1 66-85
10.1—10.7 66-220—66-226
art. 11, 66-86, 66-87
art. 12
  EXPAND
Ord./Res./Mo.
Number Adoption
Date Section  Section
this Code
2008-02  4- 8-2008 Adopting Ord.
Res. of 2- 8-2011  2- 8-2011       Added 58-106
5-61  9- 9-2014 30-25
Ord. of 7- 8-2014(1)  7- 8-2014       Added 18-121—18-126
15-100  5-12-2015       Added 58-151—58-165
15-101  5-12-2015 58-151—58-165
2015-102  8-11-2015       Added App A., § 69a
  STATE LAW REFERENCE TABLE
This table shows the location within this Charter and Code, either in the text or notes following the text, of references to Georgia State Law.
EXPAND
O.C.G.A.
Section Section
this Code
1-1-7 1-3
1-3-1 et seq. Ch. 1
1-3-3 18-20
1-4-1 1-2
2-10-105 58-99
3-3-20(b)(2)(B) 6-4
3-3-23 6-1
6-5
3-3-40 et seq. 6-5
3-5-40 et seq. Ch. 6
3-5-80 et seq. Ch. 6
3-6-40 et seq. Ch. 6
3-6-60 et seq. Ch. 6
4-3-1 et seq. Ch. 10
4-3-2 10-1
4-11-1 et seq. Ch. 10
5-3-29 38-25
5-4-1 18-124
8-2-1 et seq. 38-1
8-2-110 et seq. Ch. 30
8-2-130 et seq. Ch. 30
8-2-160 et seq. Ch. 30
30-2
30-30
9-13-13 58-20
12-2-8 18-21
12-4-72 18-20
12-5-2 66-82
12-5-20 et seq. 18-19—18-21
18-26
Ch. 66
12-5-30 18-21
12-5-30(f) 18-19
18-21
12-5-440 et seq. 18-19
18-21
12-7-1 et seq. Ch. 18, Art. II
18-21, 18-22
18-26
12-7-4 Ch. 18, Art. II
12-7-6 Ch. 18, Art. II
12-7-7.1 18-20
12-7-8 Ch. 18, Art. II
12-7-19 18-19
12-7-20 18-22
12-8-20 et seq. Ch. 50
15-10-60 et seq. 54-83
15-10-63 54-83
16-1-1 et seq. Ch. 42
16-6-8 6-5
16-6-17 Ch. 42, Art. III
16-7-25 22-26
42-20
42-32
46-3
54-42
16-7-43 46-3
16-8-14 42-27
16-11-39 42-21
16-11-41 42-21
16-13-20 et seq. 38-1
17-10-3 1-9
21-2-1 et seq. Ch. 2, Art. V
Char. § 2.03
Char. § 5.01
21-2-8 2-182
21-2-9 Char. § 2.03
Char. § 5.01
21-2-70 2-186
21-2-70.1 2-186
21-2-540 2-187
25-2-1 et seq. Ch. 22
38-1
31-19-3 Ch. 10
32-4-90 et seq. Ch. 54
32-4-92 Ch. 54
32-6-1 et seq. Ch. 54
33-3-5 58-54
33-3-5(1) 58-58
33-8-4 58-57, 58-58
33-8-8 et seq. 58-99
33-8-8(b)(2) 58-55
33-8-8.1 Ch. 58, Art. III
58-57
33-8-8.2 Ch. 58, Art. III
58-58
36-1-20(a) 18-121
36-18-1 18-20
36-32-1 et seq. Ch. 34
36-34-2 Ch. 2
36-34-2(2),
36-34-2(4) Ch. 2, Art. IV
36-34-3 Ch. 46
36-34-5 Ch. 66
36-35-3 Ch. 1, Ch. 2
36-35-4 Ch. 2, Art. IV
36-35-6(a)(2) 1-9
Ch. 42
36-60-3 Ch. 42, Art. III
36-64-1 et seq. Ch. 46
36-66-1 et seq. App. A
36-66-2 App. A
36-71-2(8) 58-81
36-80-19 1-1
36-81-1 et seq. Ch. 2, Art. VII
36-82-1 et seq. RL, Art. I, § 6
38-3-1 et seq. Ch. 14
38-3-57 14-27
39-1-1 6-5
40-6-1 et seq. Ch. 62
40-6-1—
40-6-395 62-1
40-6-183 Ch. 62
62-2
40-6-372 62-1
40-6-372—
40-6-376 62-1
41-1-1 10-3
41-1-1 et seq. Ch. 38, Art. I
41-1-2 10-3
41-2-1 et seq. Ch. 38, Art. I
41-2-5 18-63
38-25
41-2-7 38-1
41-2-7 et seq. 38-25
41-2-7—
41-2-17 38-27
41-2-8 38-1
41-2-9—
41-2-17 38-1
41-2-12(g) 38-25
41-3-1 Ch. 42, Art. III
tit. 43 58-96
43-39A-1 et seq. 38-25
45-10-1 et seq. 2-143
45-10-20 et seq. 2-144
45-11-1 1-8
46-3-1 et seq. 58-99
46-7-15 58-99
47-5-1 et seq. Ch. 2, Art. IV
47-18-1 et seq. Ch. 2, Art. IV
48-4-1 38-25
48-4-75 et seq. 38-28
48-4-78 38-25
48-5-1 et seq. Ch. 58
48-5-350 et seq. Ch. 58
48-5-355,
48-5-356 58-99
48-5-359 58-21
48-6-93 Ch. 58, Art. V
58-99
58-134
48-6-93(d) 58-135
48-13-1 et seq. 58-106
48-13-5 et seq. Ch. 58, Art. IV
48-13-5—
48-13-26 58-92
48-13-7 58-84
58-86
48-13-9 58-85
48-13-9(c)(1)—(18) 58-90
48-13-16 58-86
48-13-20 58-106
48-13-51(a)(3) 58-152
48-13-55 58-99
50-14-1(d) Ch. 2, Art. II
50-18-90 et seq. Ch. 2, Art. VI,
Div. 5
69-1017 Char. § 2.09
  Sec. 100. - Provisions are minimum requirements.
In their interpretation and application, the provisions of this Ordinance shall be considered as the minimum requirements to promote and to protect public health, safety, comfort, convenience, prosperity, and other aspects of the general welfare, and in particular:
(a)
To promote the purposes set forth in the preamble to the Ordinance and in the statements of legislative intent for the respective districts or groups of districts; and,
(b)
To provide a gradual remedy for existing conditions which are detrimental thereto.
Sec. 101. - Application of overlapping regulations.
Whenever any provision of this Ordinance and any other provision of law, whether set forth in this Ordinance or in any other law, ordinance, or resolution of any kind, impose overlapping or contradictory regulations over the use of land, or over the use or bulk of buildings or other structures, or contain any restrictions covering any of the same subject matter, that provision which is more restrictive or imposes higher standards or requirements shall govern.
Sec. 102. - Existing private agreements.
This Ordinance is not intended to abrogate or annul any easement, covenant, or any other private agreement.
Sec. 103. - Existing building permits.
In all cases where:
(a)
A building permit has been lawfully issued on the basis of an application showing complete plans for the proposed construction of a new building or other structure, or of an enlargement of an existing building or other structure which requires construction of foundations, and
(b)
The adoption of this Ordinance, or of any subject amendment thereto, would make the completed building or other structures non-conforming or non-complying, construction may nevertheless be continued in accordance with the building permit and a certificate of occupancy may be issued for such non-conforming or non-complying building or other structure.
(c)
Action on Appeals. In exercising the above powers, the Board may, in conformity with the provisions of this Ordinance, reverse or affirm, wholly or in part, or may modify the order, requirements, decisions, or determinations of the Building Official and, to that end, shall have all the powers of the Building Official and may issue or direct the issuance of a permit.
(d)
Appeals, How Taken. Appeals to the Board may be taken by any person aggrieved or by an officer, department, Board, or bureau of the City of Pearson, Georgia, affected by any decision of the Building Official or other officials based on this Ordinance. Such appeals shall be taken within a reasonable time, as provided by the rules of the Board, by filing with the Building Official and any other city official involved, and with the Board, a written notice of appeal specifying the grounds there for. The Building Official shall forthwith transmit to the Board all papers constituting the record upon which the action appealed from was taken.
(e)
Public Hearing on Appeals. The board shall fix a reasonable time for the hearing of appeals or other matters referred to it, and give at least fifteen (15) days public notice thereof, as well as due notice to the parties in interest, and decide the same within a reasonable time. Upon a hearing, any party may appear in person, or by agent, or by Attorney.
(f)
Stay of Proceedings. An appeal stays all legal proceedings in the Board after the notice of appeal shall have been filed with him that, by reason of facts stated in the certificate, a stay would, in his opinion, cause imminent peril to life and property. In such case, proceedings shall not be stayed otherwise than by a restraining order which may be granted by the Board or by a court of competent jurisdiction on notice to the official from whom the appeal is taken and on due cause shown.
(g)
Explanation of Decisions. On all appeals, application or other matters, the Board shall inform, in writing, all parties involved of its decision and the reasons thereof.
(h)
Duties of Building Official, Board of Zoning Appeals, City Commission and Courts, on Matters of Appeals.
It is the intent of this Ordinance, that all questions arising in connection with the enforcement or the interpretation of this Ordinance, (except as otherwise expressly provided in this Ordinance) shall be first presented to the Building Official; and that such questions shall be presented to the Board of Zoning Appeals only on appeals from the Building Officials, and that from the decisions of the Board of Zoning Appeals, recourse shall be taken to the Courts as provided by law. It is further the intent of this Ordinance that the duties of the City Commission in connection with this Ordinance shall not include hearing and passing on disputed questions which might arise in connection with the enforcement or interpretation of this Ordinance; but the procedures for determining such questions shall be as stated in this Ordinance and that the duties of the City Commission in connection with this Ordinance shall be only the duty of holding a public hearing and voting upon any proposed amendment or repeal of this Ordinance as provided by law.
Sec. 104. - Separability.
It is hereby declared to be the legislative intent that, if any provisions of this Ordinance or the application thereof to any building or other structure or tract of land, are declared by a court of competent jurisdiction to be invalid or ineffective in whole or in part, or to be inapplicable to any person or situation, the effect of such decision shall be limited to the provision or provisions which are expressly stated in the decision to be invalid or ineffective, or to be the zoning lot, building, or other structure, or tract of land immediately involved in the controversy. All other provisions of this Ordinance shall continue to be separately and fully effective, and the application of any such provision to other persons or situations shall not be effected.
Sec. 105. - Effective date.
This Ordinance shall be effective after its adoption, the public welfare demanding it.
