Chapter 30 - MANUFACTURED HOMES AND MOBILE HOMES[1]
ARTICLE I. - IN GENERAL

Sec. 30-1. - Intent.
(a)
It is the intent of this chapter to assist the city in accurately preparing and checking the returns of mobile or manufactured homes, for tax purposes.
(b)
It is the intent of this chapter to provide for uniform treatment of all housing designed manufactured homes and industrialized buildings and dwellings which have been constructed under these and other lawful regulations on adjacent lots in the same district, or general area.
(Code 1975, § 5-606; Res. of 10-11-1994, § A)
Sec. 30-2. - Definitions.
The following words, terms and phrases, when used in this chapter, shall have the meanings ascribed to them in this section, except where the context clearly indicates a different meaning:
Dwelling, single-family, means a structure containing not more than one dwelling unit designed for residential use, which meets or exceeds the following standards:
(1)
Minimum width in excess of 16 feet.
(2)
Minimum square footage required by the zone in which located.
(3)
The roof shall have a minimum 2:12 roof pitch and shall have a surface of wood shakes, asphalt composition, wood shingles, concrete, fiberglass or metal tiles, slate, built up gravel materials, or other materials approved by the building official.
(4)
The exterior siding materials shall consist of wood, masonry, concrete, stucco, masonite, metal or vinyl lap or other materials of like appearance.
(5)
Be attached to a permanent foundation in accordance with State of Georgia Installation of Manufactured Homes and Mobile Homes Rules and Regulations as established and published by the state safety fire commissioner (O.C.G.A. § 8-2-160 et seq.).
(6)
Be constructed according to standards established either by the state minimum standard codes, as amended from time to time, for site-built homes, or the National Manufactured Housing Construction and Safety Standards Act for manufactured homes, or the State of Georgia Industrialized Building for Residential Industrialized Buildings. Each of these codes shall be applicable to the specific structure to which it applies.
Dwelling unit means a structure or a portion of any structure designed, arranged and used for living quarters for one or more persons living as a single housekeeping unit with cooking facilities, but not including units in hotels, motels, boardinghouses or like uses.
Industrialized building means any structure or component thereof which is wholly or in substantial part made, fabricated, formed, or assembled in manufacturing facilities for installation or assembly and installation on a building site and has been manufactured in such a manner that all parts or processes cannot be inspected at the installation site without disassembly, damage to, or destruction thereof. Industrialized buildings are constructed and regulated in accordance with the Industrialized Buildings Act, 1982 Georgia Laws, pp 1637-1643, and O.C.G.A. § 8-2-110 et seq.
Manufactured home means a structure, transportable in one or more sections, which, in the traveling mode, is eight body feet or more in width or 40 body feet or more in length, or, when erected on site, is 320 or more square feet, and which is built on a permanent chassis and designed to be used as a dwelling with or without a permanent foundation when connected to the required utilities, and includes the plumbing, heating, air-conditioning, and electrical systems contained therein; except that such term shall include any structure which meets all the requirements of this definition except the size requirements and with respect to which the manufacturer voluntarily files a certification required by the secretary of housing and urban development and complies with the standards established under the National Manufactured Housing Construction and Safety Standards Act of 1974, 42 USC 5401 et seq.
Mobile home means a structure, transportable in one or more sections, which, in the traveling mode, is eight body feet or more in width or 40 body feet or more in length, or when erected on site, is 320 or more square feet and which is built on a permanent chassis and designed to be used as a dwelling with or without a permanent foundation when connected to the required utilities and includes the plumbing, heating, air-conditioning, and electrical systems contained therein and manufactured prior to June 15, 1976.
Other manufactured homes means any manufactured home not meeting the definition of single-family dwelling.
Structure means anything constructed or erected with a fixed location on or in the ground or attached to something having a fixed location on the ground. Structures include, but are not limited to the following: site-built buildings, industrialized buildings, manufactured homes, mobile homes, billboards, swimming pools, advertising signs, satellite dishes, and fall-out shelters.
(Res. of 10-11-1994, § B)
Secs. 30-3—30-22. - Reserved.
ARTICLE II. - REGULATIONS

Sec. 30-23. - Moving permit required.
A permit shall be obtained from the city clerk prior to the moving of a mobile home or manufactured home intended to be used as a residence into or within the city limits.
(Code 1975, § 5-601)
Sec. 30-24. - Moving beyond city limits.
A permit shall be obtained from the city clerk prior to the moving of a mobile home or manufactured home located in the city beyond the confines of the city.
(Code 1975, § 5-602)
Sec. 30-25. - Fee.
The moving of a manufactured home and the set-up with foundation and anchors shall be $75.00 plus the required electrical fee of $75.00.
(Code 1975, § 5-603; Ord. No. 5-61, 9-9-2014)
Sec. 30-26. - Registration of mobile/manufactured home in fixed location.
The owners of mobile homes or manufactured homes used as residences within the city shall register such mobile home or manufactured home with the city clerk and obtain a registration certificate on or before April 15 of each year. No fee may be charged for such registration certificate.
(Code 1975, § 5-604)
Sec. 30-27. - Issuance of permit, decal.
A permit shall be issued by the clerk of said city upon request by the owner if all applicable taxes have been paid and shall issue with each permit an appropriately numbered and colored decal for each mobile home or manufactured home and the owner or his agent shall affix the decal to the mobile home or manufactured home corresponding to the permit in a prominent and conspicuous location on such trailer or mobile home in such a position that said decal may be easily observed from the nearest drive or roadway.
(Code 1975, § 5-605)
Sec. 30-28. - Manufactured homes as single-family dwellings.
(a)
Permitted locations. Manufactured homes qualifying as single-family dwellings, shall be allowed in all residential districts and shall be regulated uniformly with other housing constructed on site, subject to requirements and limitations set forth in this article. Approval shall be in accordance with section 30-31.
(b)
Compatibility standards. Compatibility standards for manufactured homes meeting the definition of single-family dwelling are as follows:
(1)
Manufactured homes qualifying as single-family dwellings, shall be compared to site-built and other housing in the immediate general area within the same zoning or residential district or area. Approval shall be granted upon the finding that the manufactured home is substantially similar or superior in general aesthetic appearance regarding size, siding material, roof material, and foundation to:
a.
Site-built or other forms of housing which may be permitted in the same general area under this article; or
b.
Existing development.
(2)
All towing devices, wheels, axles and hitches must be removed.
(3)
At each exterior door there must be a landing that is a minimum of 36 inches by 48 inches.
(4)
Homes shall be separated from each other and from other buildings and structures by at least 20 feet. Porches and decks without opaque tops or roofs shall, for the purposes of separation requirements, be excluded from this requirement.
(Res. of 10-11-1994, § C)
Sec. 30-29. - Industrialized buildings as single-family dwellings, permitted locations.
Industrialized buildings qualifying as single-family dwellings shall be allowed in all residential districts and shall be regulated uniformly with other housing constructed on site, subject to requirements and limitations set forth in this article. Approval shall be in accordance with section 30-31.
(Res. of 10-11-1994, § D)
Sec. 30-30. - Other manufactured homes and mobile homes used for residential purposes.
(a)
Permitted locations. Manufactured homes which do not meet the definitions of a single-family dwelling, and mobile home shall be permitted within areas designated or utilized as agricultural, agricultural-residential, and manufactured home districts provided that each home complies with the district standards in which it is located and the standards hereinafter set forth.
(b)
Standards for placement of manufactured homes not meeting definitions of single-family dwelling and mobile home. Standards for placement of manufactured homes not meeting the definition of single-family dwelling, and mobile home are as follows:
(1)
A 30-foot setback is required from any other dwelling unit on the site.
(2)
The structure must be connected to the water and sewerage system including well and septic tank, if applicable, approved by the city/county health department.
(3)
The structure must be installed according to state installation of manufactured homes and mobile homes rules and regulations as established and published by the state safety fire commissioner (O.C.G.A. § 8-2-160 et seq.).
(4)
The area beneath each such structure must be enclosed with materials manufactured for such purposes, including but not limited to brick, concrete, rock or other materials which have been approved by the city/county building inspector.
(5)
A manufactured home or mobile home when used as an accessory structure or dwelling shall be located to the rear of the principal structure.
(6)
The standards set out in subsections (b)(1) and (5) of this section are not applicable to and shall not be applied to manufactured homes, other manufactured homes or mobile homes otherwise regulated hereunder when located in a manufactured home rental community or park or mobile home rental community or park.
(Res. of 10-11-1994, § E)
Sec. 30-31. - Procedures for approval of manufactured homes classified as single-family dwellings, other manufactured homes and mobile homes; intent.
It is the intent of this section to provide procedures for approval of permits for manufactured homes classified as single-family dwellings, other manufactured homes and mobile homes.
(1)
Applications for approval of placement of manufactured homes or mobile homes shall be made on forms developed for that purpose and shall be submitted to the city clerk who will give it to the city building inspector for review and approval in accordance with this article.
(2)
Such applications shall include all information necessary to make determinations as to conformity with the provisions of this article as applicable to each such structure and, as applicable, conformity with the standards herein, including photographs or renderings of the front and side of the manufactured home or mobile home, exterior finish, and other information necessary to make determinations required by this article.
(3)
Approval or denial of the application shall be within five days of receipt of the application and all required supporting materials. The applicant shall be notified in writing of the approval, conditional approval or denial of the application within five working days after such decision is made. Conditional approval shall require that the conditions and reasons therefor be stated in writing and be agreed to by the applicant; such conditions shall be binding upon the applicant. In the case of disapproval, the reasons therefor shall be stated in writing.
(4)
The building inspector may approve deviations from the definitional or compatibility standards or architectural standards set forth in section 30-28(b)(3), (4), or (5) on the basis of a finding that the materials to be utilized or the architectural style proposed for the dwelling unit will be compatible and harmonious to or superior to existing structures in the vicinity.
(5)
Appeals of the decisions of the building official in interpretations, conditional grants or denial of permits shall be made to the city council. The decision of the city council shall be based on the purpose and intent of the article, provided that the spirit of this article shall be observed, public welfare and safety shall be secured, and substantial justice done.
(Res. of 10-11-1994, § F)
Sec. 30-32. - Procedure for appeal of denial or conditional approval.
(a)
Any person aggrieved by a decision of the building official or other officer, department, board or bureau charged with the approval, conditional approval or denial of the placement of manufactured homes classified as single-family dwellings, other manufactured homes and mobile homes may appeal from such decision to the city council by filing with the clerk of said body, if one exists, or if not, by filing directly with each member of said body, a petition in writing setting forth plainly, fully and distinctly wherein the decision appealed from is contrary to the provision of this article or the laws of this state. Such appeal shall be filed within 30 days after the date on which the decision is rendered. The date on which the decision is rendered shall be the date on which that decision is reduced to writing as required in this article.
(b)
An appeal stays all legal proceedings in furtherance of the action appealed from unless such stay would cause imminent peril to life and/or property. In such case, proceedings may be stayed by an order from the city council or upon order from a court of appropriate jurisdiction.
(c)
The city council shall fix the date and time certain for the hearing of the appeal and shall give notice thereof to the appealing party and the building official or other official making the appeals' decision. Upon the hearing, any party to the appeal may appear in person or by agent or through an attorney. The person aggrieved by the adverse decision, as well as the building official or other officer, department, board or bureau charged with the approval, conditional approval or denial shall have the right to attend the hearing, to present evidence and testimony, to assert any further allegations or defenses regarding the action appealed from, to confront and cross-examine anyone who would testify in favor of or in defense of the action appealed from. The city council may receive and rule on the admissibility of evidence, hear testimony under oath and call witnesses as it may deem advisable. The city council shall not be bound by the traditional rules of evidence in hearings conducted under this article. Instead, the rules of evidence of an administrative hearing shall apply.
(d)
The city council shall decide the appeal within two working days after the date and time of the hearing. The appeal shall be sustained upon an express finding that the action of the building official or other official whose action has been appealed was based on an erroneous finding of a material fact or that he acted in an arbitrary manner. In exercising its powers, the board may reverse or affirm the decision appealed, wholly or partly, or may modify the decision or determination appealed from and to that end shall have all the powers of the official from whom the appeal was taken.
(e)
The city council shall consider only those matters asserted in the notice of appeal and shall consider only the record of the proceedings and matters presented to the official from whom the appeal is taken.
(f)
Any decision from the city council may be appealed by filing an appeal with the superior court of this county within 30 days after the date of the decision on appeal has been rendered in writing. The decision made by the city council shall be placed in writing and the factual basis for the decision shall be set forth in the written decision.
(Res. of 10-11-1994, § G)
