Chapter 26 - LAW ENFORCEMENT[1]

Sec. 26-1. - Composition of police department.
The police department of the city shall consist of a chief and such other police officers or assistants as may be named by the mayor and council.
(Code 1975, § 4-301)
Sec. 26-2. - Compensation of police officers.
The chief of the police department and the other officers or members of the police department shall receive such compensation as may be prescribed by the mayor and council.
(Code 1975, § 4-302)
Sec. 26-3. - Authority of chief.
The chief of the police department shall have sole direction of the operation and management of the police department, subject at all times to the orders of the mayor or chairman of the police department committee.
(Code 1975, § 4-303)
Sec. 26-4. - Assistant chief.
In the absence or disability of the police chief, the assistant chief shall perform the duties of his office.
(Code 1975, § 4-304)
Sec. 26-5. - Duties of chief of police.
The chief of police shall:
(1)
Conduct community public relations and crime prevention programs when required by the mayor and council.
(2)
Administer and operate the city jail.
(3)
Issue orders and official administrative rules and regulations to the police officers of the city.
(4)
Keep a comprehensive and detailed daily record in permanent form, showing:
a.
All known or reported offenses and/or crimes committed within the corporate limits.
b.
All arrests made by police officers.
c.
All police investigations made and other activities of the police department.
(Code 1975, § 4-305)
Sec. 26-6. - General duties of police officers.
The officers of the police department shall be responsible for the prevention and detention of crime, the enforcement of federal and state laws and city ordinances, the apprehension of violators of such laws and ordinances, and the protection of persons and property against injury from crime.
(Code 1975, § 4-306)
Sec. 26-7. - Police officers continuously on duty.
Each member of the police department shall be deemed always on duty, subject to relief therefrom as shall be allowed by proper authority, and the same responsibility as to the suppression of disturbance, arrest of offenders and violation of the rules and regulations of the police department shall rest upon him when not in uniform as when in uniform.
(Code 1975, § 4-307)
Sec. 26-8. - Knowledge of laws and ordinances.
All police officers, upon their employment, shall acquire a full knowledge of all laws, ordinances, rules and regulations of the city, thereby preparing themselves to act intelligently on all occasions where their services are needed. All members of the police department shall also become familiar with the rules and regulations established by the chief of police concerning the discipline, good order, proper conduct, care and management of the police department. Ignorance of such ordinances, rules and regulations shall be no excuse for a breach of any of the same by a police officer.
(Code 1975, § 4-308)
Sec. 26-9. - Uniforms.
All police officers shall wear the prescribed uniform and equipment at all times when on duty, unless otherwise ordered by a superior officer. No member of the police department shall go on duty unless he has in his possession and on his person all the necessary equipment to be used by him in the discharge of his duty. Uniforms shall be kept clean and pressed and footwear shall be kept clean and tidy at all times.
(Code 1975, § 4-309)
Sec. 26-10. - Riders in police cars.
No police officer shall allow riders in a police car while the officer is on duty.
(Code 1975, § 4-310)
