Chapter 42 - SIGNS
ARTICLE I. - IN GENERAL

Sec. 42-1. - Posting advertising signs, etc.
No person, either for the person or as agent for another person, firm or corporation, shall post, nail or tack any circular, handbill or other advertising matter, upon any building, shed, fence, or telephone, telegraph, or electric pole or other posts of any nature in the streets or alleys in the City without the consent of the owner or person in possession thereof.
(Code 2003, § 10-4004)
Secs. 42-2—42-20. - Reserved.
ARTICLE II. - OUTDOOR ADVERTISING SIGNS[1]

Footnotes:
--- (1) ---
State Law reference— Outdoor advertising signs, O.C.G.A. § 32-6-50 et seq.

Sec. 42-21. - Applicability.
(a)
Scope. This article shall apply to all outdoor advertising signs abutting or visible from the limited access and primary highway rights-of-way in the City.
(b)
Compliance. No sign shall be erected or maintained unless it is in compliance with the regulations of this article.
(c)
Construction. Signs must be constructed of durable materials, maintained in good condition, and not permitted to become dilapidated.
(d)
Location. All signs located on sites abutting or visible from a limited access highway or primary highway rights-of-way shall conform with O.C.G.A. title 32, ch. 6, art. 3, pt. 2 (O.C.G.A. § 32-6-70 et seq., the Georgia Outdoor Advertising Code), and shall meet all federal and State requirements necessary to obtain a permit under said code. In instances where the sign controls of this article are more strict, these regulations shall apply.
(e)
Obsolete signs. Any sign which advertises an activity, business, product or service which has ceased operation or production shall be removed within six months of the discontinuance of said activity, business, product or service.
(Code 2003, § 8-6001; Ord. of 6-4-1985, § 1)
Sec. 42-22. - Types of signs permitted; specifications.
(a)
Home occupation signs. One nonilluminated professional or business nameplate not exceeding two square feet in area is permitted.
(b)
Signs of work under construction. One nonilluminated sign not exceeding 40 square feet in area displaying the name of the building, the contractors, the architects, the engineers, the owners, the financial, selling and development agencies is permitted upon the premises of any work under the construction, alteration, or removal. Such signs shall be removed from the site within 30 days after the completion of the project.
(c)
Temporary subdivision signs. Temporary signs, not exceeding 40 square feet in area announcing a land subdivision development are permitted on the premises of the land subdivision. Such signs shall be spaced not less than 300 feet apart. They shall be removed when 75 percent of the lots are conveyed.
(d)
Roof signs. Not more than one roof sign structure may be erected on the roof of any one building. No roof sign structure shall extend more than 25 feet above the elevation of the roof.
(e)
Wall signs.
(1)
Generally. Signs on the walls of a building (including signs attached flat against the wall, painted wall signs and projecting signs) shall meet the following requirements:
a.
Signs on the front surface of a building. The total area of signs on the exterior front surface of a building shall not exceed 25 percent of the front surface of the building.
b.
Signs on the side and rear surfaces of a building. The total area of signs on a side or rear surface of a building shall not exceed 50 percent of the exterior side or rear surface of the building respectively.
c.
Projecting signs. Wall signs attached flat against a wall may extend not more than 24 inches from the wall.
(2)
Angle signs extending outward. Signs attached at an angle to a wall may extend outward from the wall of a building not more than five feet.
(f)
Illuminated signs. Illumination devices shall be so placed and shielded that light from the sign itself will not directly cast into any residential district, sleeping rooms in any district or the eyes of an automobile or vehicle driver.
(g)
Definitions. The following words, terms and phrases, when used in this subsection, shall have the meanings ascribed to them in this subsection, except where the context clearly indicates a different meaning:
On-premises signs means those signs which are located within 100 feet of a regularly used part of the business being advertised and on the same property.
Outdoor advertising signs means signs that do not meet the definition in Subsection (g)(1) of this section and that advertise a building, profession, product, service, activity, entertainment or any other advertisement not conducted, sold, or offered on the premises upon which the sign is located.
(h)
Outdoor advertising signs visible from a limited access highway. Outdoor advertising signs visible from a limited access highway shall meet the following requirements:
(1)
Uniform size. The outside measurements of all such signs shall be 12 feet in height and 50 feet in length, with or without trim.
(2)
Illumination. All illuminated signs shall use base-mounted fluorescent or mercury vapor lights and shall be activated by photoelectric cells. Additional lighting, including, but not limited to, neon, animation and running lights is prohibited.
(3)
Height above road grade. All signs shall be a minimum of ten feet above adjacent pavement measuring from the lower portion of the sign face. Signs shall not exceed 30 feet in height. Two signs in the same location (back to back) or "V" formation shall be the same height above the road's surface.
(4)
Extrusions prohibited. Extrusions beyond the face of the sign, excluding aprons, are prohibited.
(5)
Number of signs per location. Only one sign shall be allowed to face the same direction per location. This allows back to back or "V" formation signs but prohibits two signs (side by side) facing the same direction.
(6)
Spacing. Sign locations shall be no less than 500 feet apart measuring from the two closest points.
(7)
Sign structures. Sign structures shall be no less than ten feet from any property or right-of-way line.
(8)
Number of signs allowed. Allow three outdoor advertising signs per quadrant of any interchange adjacent to the limited access highway. These signs must be within areas zoned commercial or industrial as specified in State law and are restricted to an area 1,200 feet long beginning 500 feet from the point where the pavement widens on the main traveled way to accommodate the longest entrance or exit ramp.
(9)
Marsh and historic area locations prohibited. No sign shall be placed in or obstruct the view of a marshland area or an area of designated historic interest.
(10)
Advertisement limitations.
a.
Outdoor advertising shall be limited to the following:
1.
Travel service facilities including lodgings, gas, food, camping;
2.
Areas of scenic beauty;
3.
Public attractions including historic, natural scientific or recreational amenities; and
4.
Any combination of the above-listed facilities.
b.
Further, the content of all advertising shall be directional in nature.
(i)
Outdoor advertising signs visible from the primary highway system. Outdoor advertising signs visible from the primary highway system shall be located on commercial or industrial zoned property and shall also be located within 600 feet of an ongoing commercial or industrial establishment and shall not be located in an area which is primarily residential in nature. The provisions of Subsections (h)(2), (3), (4), (5), (6), (7) and (9) of this section are applicable to signs on the primary highways.
(j)
On-premises signs near advertised activity. On-premises signs located within 100 feet of a regularly used part of the activity being advertised and located on the same property and for sale or for lease signs located on the property being advertised would not be prohibited.
(k)
Nonconforming signs. Any legally erected sign which would become nonconforming as a result of this article would be allowed to remain until purchased by the department of transportation or the City, provided that the sign owner meets the requirements of State laws and rules and regulations governing such signs.
(Code 2003, § 8-6002; Ord. of 6-4-1985, § 3)
Sec. 42-23. - Prohibited signs.
(a)
Signs imitating warning signals are prohibited. No signs shall display lights resembling the flashing lights customarily used in traffic signals or in police, fire, ambulance, or rescue vehicles; nor shall any sign use the words, slogans, dimensional shape and size, or colors of the governmental traffic signs.
(b)
No signs, except traffic signs and signals and informational signs erected by a public agency, are permitted within any street or highway rights-of-way.
(c)
Signs painted on or attached to natural features such as trees or rocks, telephone poles, utility poles, or fence posts are prohibited.
(d)
Fluttering ribbons and banners are prohibited.
(e)
Signs within 300 feet of any officially designated historical site or monument, except signs pertaining to that particular site or monument, are prohibited.
(Code 2003, § 8-6003; Ord. of 6-4-1985, § 2)
