Chapter 32 - MUNICIPAL COURT[1]

Footnotes:
--- (1) ---
State Law reference— Municipal courts, O.C.G.A. § 36-32-1 et seq.

Sec. 32-1. - Oath of Municipal Court Judge.
The Municipal Court Judge, before entering upon the discharge of the duties of an office, shall take and subscribe the following oath:
"I do solemnly swear that, when acting as Municipal Court Judge of the City of Ocilla, I will perform the duties of the office to the best of my ability, so help me God."
(Code 2003, § 9-1001)
Sec. 32-2. - Obedience to subpoenas.
In case any person subpoenaed as a witness for either the City or a defendant, in a case pending in the Municipal Court, fails to appear at the trial, the Court may instruct a rule to be issued directing the witness to appear at such time and place as may be therein set forth, to show cause why the person should not be adjudged in contempt, such rule shall be served by a police officer at least one day before the hearing, and if, at the hearing, no good and sufficient reason be given by the witness for the default, the person may be adjudged in contempt of court and punished by fine or imprisonment as prescribed by Section 14 of the City Charter. In case the witness fails to appear in response to the rule above provided for, the Court shall pass an order directing the witness to be arrested and brought before the Court to answer the charge.
(Code 2003, § 9-1002)
Sec. 32-3. - Contempt of court.
Any person who shall be guilty of contempt of court shall be fined or imprisoned as provided by Section 14 of the City Charter. When necessary, the same procedure as in Section 32-2 shall apply for bringing the contempting party or parties before the Court for the purpose of answering the charge.
(Code 2003, § 9-1003)
Sec. 32-4. - Court costs.
A sum as established by the City shall be added to every fine and forfeiture of $10.00 to $100.00.
(Code 2003, § 9-1004; Ord. of 6-3-1975, ¶ 1)
Sec. 32-5. - Officers.
(a)
The City Clerk shall be ex-officio Clerk of the Mayor's Court, and shall, when necessary, by the Clerk or deputy, attend the Court and do and perform all other duties required of the Clerk in connection with the Court, by the Council.
(b)
The ministerial officers of the Mayor's Court shall be the Chief of Police and police officers of the City, to whom all mesne and final process thereof shall be directed.
(c)
All or a sufficient number of said officers shall attend the sessions of the Court for the purpose of executing the orders of the Court, and shall do and perform such other duties connected with the Court as are required of them by the presiding officer.
(Code 2003, § 9-1005)
Sec. 32-6. - Service of offenders.
Every person who is charged with an offense shall be summoned in writing, except where provision is made for an immediate arrest, to appear before the Mayor's Court and answer for the same, which summons shall be served personally by the Chief of Police or a police officer, and shall specify the time and place of trial. Any person who fails or refuses to appear as required, shall be arrested and brought to trial or confined to await trial.
(Code 2003, § 9-1006)
Sec. 32-7. - Suspension of judgment.
The defendant shall have the right to a suspension of judgment and sentence in cases where the defendant has been sentenced to labor, for a period of four days, upon the defendant's serving written notice upon the presiding officer immediately after judgment is rendered or sentence pronounced, or defendant's intention to apply for a writ of certiorari.
(Code 2003, § 9-1007)
Sec. 32-8. - City not liable for fines, etc.
The City shall not be liable for any fines paid or time served between the judgment of the presiding officer and the time of the giving of the notice of the granting of the writ of certiorari in the case.
(Code 2003, § 9-1008)
Sec. 32-9. - Suspension of sentence.
If the defendant be already serving time under a sentence when certiorari is granted in the case, the granting of certiorari shall not act as a suspension of the judgment until the writ is finally disposed of, and the defendant shall, upon giving good and sufficient bond and security in double the amount of the fine, or in cases where there is no fine, the bond shall be in an amount not exceeding $500.00, to be assessed by the presiding officer for the defendant's appearance to answer the final judgment in the case, shall be allowed to go free until the matter is finally disposed of, said bond to be made payable to the Council and shall be collectible in any court having jurisdiction of the same, as in cases of other bonds of like nature.
(Code 2003, § 9-1009)
Sec. 32-10. - Release upon bond.
After a judgment of the presiding officer, in the event there shall be an appeal pending an application for writ of certiorari duly sanctioned and finally disposed of, the defendant in such case shall be released from the custody of the officer having the defendant in charge, upon the defendant giving a good and sufficient bond with good security in double the amount of the fine imposed, or in case of sentence to imprisonment alone, then in an amount not to exceed the sum of $500.00, to be assessed by the presiding officer, conditioned to be paid in the manner prescribed by Section 32-9.
(Code 2003, § 9-1010)
