Chapter 24 - FIRE PREVENTION AND PROTECTION[1]
Footnotes:
--- (1) ---
State Law reference— Municipal home rule, Ga. Const. art. IX, § II; O.C.G.A. § 36-35-1 et seq.; fire protection and safety generally, O.C.G.A. § 25-1-1 et seq.; authority to provide fire protection standards, O.C.G.A. § 25-3-4; false alarms, O.C.G.A. § 16-10-27; volunteer firemen eligible to serve as members of city and county governing authorities, O.C.G.A. § 36-60-23; prohibition and regulations of fireworks sales preempted by state, O.C.G.A. § 36-60-24.

ARTICLE I. - IN GENERAL

Secs. 24-1—24-18. - Reserved.
ARTICLE II. - FIRE CODE

Sec. 24-19. - Fire code adopted.
As provided in chapter 10, the city has adopted the International Fire Code, which shall be applicable within the city.
Sec. 24-20. - Enforcement.
The fire prevention code adopted herein shall be enforced by the fire chief and such subordinate officers and firefighters of the fire department as are required to effectuate the provisions of said code.
Sec. 24-21. - Power to make modifications.
The chief of the fire department is authorized to modify any of the provisions of the adopted fire prevention code upon application in writing by the owner or lessee of any property or his duly authorized agent when there are practical difficulties in the way of carrying out the strict letter of the code; provided, however, that the spirit of the code shall be observed and the public safety secured. The particulars of any modification when granted or allowed, and the decision of the fire chief thereon, shall be entered upon the records of the department, and a signed copy shall be forwarded to the applicant.
Sec. 24-22. - Appeals.
Whenever the chief of the fire department shall disapprove an application or refuse to grant a permit applied for, or when it is claimed that the provisions of the code do not apply or that the true intent and meaning of the code have been misconstrued or wrongly interpreted, the applicant may appeal from the decision of the chief of the fire department to the city council within 30 days from the date of the decision appealed.
Secs. 24-23—24-47. - Reserved.
ARTICLE III. - PROHIBITED ACTS

Sec. 24-48. - Tampering with fire alarms prohibited.
It shall be unlawful for any persons to tamper with any fire alarm except in case of fire, except by authority from the city or its authorized employees.
State Law reference— False fire alarms, O.C.G.A. § 16-10-27.
Sec. 24-49. - False alarms.
It shall be unlawful for any person to make, give, send or turn in, in any manner or way whatever, a false fire alarm or riot alarm, knowing the same to be false.
Sec. 24-50. - Tampering with equipment.
No persons other than those firefighters on official business shall tamper with fire fighting equipment, either on public or private property.
Sec. 24-51. - Obstructing fire equipment.
It shall be unlawful for any person to obstruct in any manner any firefighting apparatus or any of the officers or members of the fire department in the performance of their duties. It shall be unlawful for any person to obstruct any fireplug so as to obstruct approaches to the same by the fire department.
Sec. 24-52. - Persons permitted in vicinity of fire.
No persons other than firefighters, city officials, police officers, and the property owner or his agent shall be allowed within the immediate vicinity of a fire, unless such persons are given permission to do so by the fire chief.
Sec. 24-53. - Extraordinary fire hazards.
It shall be unlawful for any person to build, maintain, suffer or permit an extraordinary fire hazard on his premises or on premises occupied or used by him, either in the construction of buildings, storage of inflammables, explosives or combustibles, the use of open flames, etc. The term "extraordinary fire hazard," as used herein, shall be construed to mean any condition that would be manifestly unsafe as a fire hazard or that would greatly increase the probability of fire or the injury of persons by fire. In this connection, the minimum standards promulgated in such cases by the National Board of Fire Underwriters shall be considered as prima facie evidence of such hazard.
Secs. 24-54—24-79. - Reserved.
ARTICLE IV. - OPEN BURNING

Sec. 24-80. - Open burning prohibited.
No person or entity shall cause, allow, or permit open burning within the city limits, except for the seasonal exceptions provided herein.
Sec. 24-81. - Exceptions applicable October through April.
Except during air pollutions episodes as provided in this article, from October 1 through April 30 of each year, the following open outdoor burning is permitted:
(1)
For the reduction of leaves on the premises on which they fall by the person in control of the premises.
(2)
Carrying out recognized agricultural procedures necessary for the production or harvesting of crops.
(3)
The "prescribed burning," as defined at Ga. Adm. Code § 391-3-1-02(5)(f), of any forest land by the owners or the owner's designee.
(4)
For recreational purposes or cooking food for immediate human consumption.
(5)
Disposal of tree limbs from storm damage.
(6)
For weed abatement, disease, and pest prevention.
(7)
Operation of devices using open flames, such as tar kettles, blow torches, welding torches, portable heaters and other flame-making equipment.
(8)
Setting and maintenance by contractors and tradesmen of miscellaneous small fires necessary to such activities as street-paving work installation or repair of utilities; provided that such fires are kept small in size.
(9)
Open burning in other than predominantly residential areas for the purpose of land clearing or construction or right-of-way maintenance provided the following conditions are met:
a.
Prevailing winds at the time of the burning are away from the major portion of the area's population.
b.
The location of the burning is at least 1,000 feet from any dwelling located in a predominantly residential area.
c.
The amount of dirt on or in the material being burned is minimized.
d.
Heavy oils, asphaltic materials, items containing natural or synthetic rubber, or any materials other than plant growth are not being burned.
e.
No more than one pile 60 feet by 60 feet, or equivalent, is being burned within a nine acre area at one time.
(10)
Disposal of all packaging materials previously containing explosives, in accordance with U.S. Department of Labor Safety Regulations.
(11)
Open burning of vegetative material for the purpose of land clearing using an air curtain destructor provided the following conditions are met:
a.
Authorization for such open burning is received from the city and the state forestry office, if required, having local jurisdiction over the open burning location prior to initiation of any open burning at such location.
b.
The location of the air curtain destructor is at least 300 feet from any occupied structure or public road. Air curtain destructors used solely for utility line clearing or road clearing may be located at a lesser distance upon approval by the city.
c.
No more than one air curtain destructor is operated within a ten acre area at one time or there must be at least 1,000 feet between any two air curtain destructors.
d.
Only wood waste consisting of trees, logs, large brush and stumps which are relatively free of soil are burned in the air curtain destructor.
e.
Tires or other rubber products, plastics, heavy oils or asphaltic-based or impregnated materials are not used to start or maintain the operation of the air curtain destructor.
f.
The air curtain destructor is constructed, installed and operated in a manner consistent with good air pollution control practice for minimizing emissions of fly ash and smoke.
g.
The cleaning out of the air curtain destructor pit is performed in a manner to prevent fugitive dust.
Sec. 24-82. - Exceptions applicable May through September.
Except during air pollutions episodes as provided in this article, from May 1 through September 30 of each year, the following open outdoor burning is permitted:
(1)
Carrying out recognized agricultural procedures necessary for the production or harvesting of crops.
(2)
The prescribed burning, as defined at Ga. Adm. Code § 391-3-1-02(5)(f), of any forest land by the owner or the owner's designee.
(3)
For recreational purposes or cooking food for immediate human consumption.
(4)
Operation of devices using open flames such as tar kettles, blow torches, welding torches, portable heaters and other flame-making equipment.
(5)
Setting and maintenance by contractors and tradesmen of miscellaneous small fires necessary to such activities as street-paving work installation or repair of utilities; provided that such fires are kept small in size.
Sec. 24-83. - Exception to burning ban not applicable during air pollution episodes.
During an air pollution episode declared by the proper authorities, no open burning of any kind shall be permitted, unless open burning is required in the performance of an official duty of any public office, or a fire is necessary to thwart or prevent a hazard which cannot be properly managed by any other means, or is necessary for the protection of public health.
Sec. 24-84. - Uncontrolled fires declared nuisances.
Any fire burning uncontrolled on any forested or cut-over brush land or grassland is declared to be a public nuisance by reason of its menace to life and property. Any person, firm, or corporation responsible either for the starting or for the existence of such fire is required to control or extinguish it immediately. If such person, firm, or corporation shall refuse or neglect to do so, the city, or any other fire suppression force, may suppress the nuisance thus constituted by controlling and extinguishing the fire, and, in addition to any fines and/or penalties that may be imposed under this article, the cost of controlling and extinguishing the fire may be recovered from the responsible person, firm, or corporation.
Sec. 24-85. - Notice and permit requirements; exceptions.
(a)
Except as otherwise provided in this section, any person, firm, corporation, or association lawfully entitled to burn any woods, lands, marshes, or any other flammable vegetation, whether in cultivated or uncultivated areas, shall, prior to such burning, obtain a permit therefor from the city. The permit fee shall be as set forth in the city's fee schedule.
(b)
It shall not be necessary to obtain a permit otherwise required by this section if a sudden emergency requires a firing in order to render one's premises safe. In any prosecution under this section, a necessary firing in a sudden emergency shall constitute an affirmative defense, but the burden of proving such necessity shall rest upon the person asserting it as a defense.
(c)
Subject to the limitations and conditions otherwise provided in this section, it shall not be necessary to obtain a permit otherwise required to burn improved pastures, residue on cultivated crop land, or leaf piles if the person, firm, corporation, or association intending to burn such residue shall, prior to such burning, give notice of the approximate time and location thereof to the mayor and city council or to an employee of the city who is authorized to grant permits under this article.
(d)
The notice and permit required by this section shall be in addition to any other requirement for burning provided for by this Code or state law or regulation.
Sec. 24-86. - Notice of violation; penalties.
Any person who violates this article shall be subject to penalties as set forth in section 1-11. A written notification to a person of a violation at one site shall be considered adequate notice of the rules and regulations and subsequently observed violations by the same person at the same or different site will result in immediate appropriate legal action by the city.
Sec. 24-87. - Opting out of administrative regulations.
The city intends that this article be read in conjunction with, and interpreted so as to not conflict with, Ga. Comp. Rules and Regs. § 391-3-1-.02(5). However, where Ga. Comp. Rules and Regs. § 391-3-1-.02 (5) permits conduct but also allows local governments to prohibit that conduct by ordinance, the conduct shall be prohibited unless expressly allowed by the provisions of this article.
Sec. 24-88. - No exception to burning prohibitions for materials that produce noxious and poisonous gases.
No materials or substance which emits noxious or poisonous gases, such as nitrogen dioxide, hydrogen cyanide or chlorine or other poisonous gases that will not readily dissipate in the atmosphere, may be burned within the city limits.
Secs. 24-89—24-105. - Reserved.
ARTICLE V. - FIREWORKS

Sec. 24-106. - Purpose of regulations.
The purpose of this article is to protect and safeguard the public health and welfare, and to prevent fires, and to eliminate unnecessary noises, explosions and nuisances.
Sec. 24-107. - Defined.
The following words, terms and phrases, when used in this article, shall have the meanings ascribed to them in this section, except where the context clearly indicates a different meaning:
Fireworks.
(1)
As used herein, the term "fireworks" means any combustible or explosive composition or any substance or combination of substances or article prepared for the purpose of producing a visible or audible effect by combustion, explosion, deflagration, or detonation, including blank cartridges, balloons requiring fire underneath to propel them, firecrackers, torpedoes, skyrockets, Roman candles, bombs, sparklers, and other combustibles and explosives of like construction, as well as articles containing any explosive or flammable compound and tablets and other devices containing an explosive substance.
(2)
The term "fireworks" shall not include model rockets and model rocket engines designed, sold, and used for the purpose of propelling recoverable aero models; toy pistol paper caps in which the explosive content does not average more than one-fourth grain of explosive mixture per paper cap nor toy pistols, toy cannons, toy canes, toy guns, or other devices using such paper caps; nor shall the term "fireworks" include ammunition consumed by weapons used for sporting and hunting purposes; nor shall the term include inflatable balloons in which human beings are transported.
Sec. 24-108. - Sale, possession, and explosion prohibited.
It shall be unlawful for any person to offer for sale, expose to sale, sell, use, possess or explode within the city any fireworks that are prohibited by state law.
(Ord. of 10-15-1945)
State Law reference— Similar provision, O.C.G.A. § 25-10-2.
Sec. 24-109. - Seizure.
The city police are authorized and directed, at any time, at the expense of the owner, to seize, take, or cause to be removed to a place of safety, any stock of illegal fireworks or combustibles possessed, used, displayed, sold, offered or exposed for sale, or held in any manner in violation of this article or state or federal law.
State Law reference— Authority, O.C.G.A. § 25-10-6.
