Chapter 50 - UTILITIES[1]
Footnotes:
--- (1) ---
State Law reference— Public utilities generally, O.C.G.A. § 46-1-1 et seq.; municipal home rule, O.C.G.A. § 36-35-1 et seq.; municipal utilities, O.C.G.A. § 36-34-5; Georgia Water Quality Control Act, O.C.G.A. § 12-5-20 et seq.; water resources, O.C.G.A. § 12-5-1 et seq.; public water systems, O.C.G.A. § 12-5-170 et seq.; water supply, O.C.G.A. § 12-5-470; sewage and waste disposal, O.C.G.A. § 12-5-29 et seq.; refusal by city or county to supply water because of indebtedness of prior owner, occupant, or lessee prohibited and limited liens for unpaid utility charges, O.C.G.A. § 36-60-17.

ARTICLE I. - IN GENERAL

Sec. 50-1. - Damage to public water and sewer property prohibited.
No unauthorized person shall maliciously, willfully, or negligently break, damage, destroy, uncover, deface, or tamper with any structure, appurtenance or equipment which is a part of the municipal water or sewerage works. Any person violating this provision shall be subject to immediate arrest under charge of disorderly conduct or malicious mischief.
(Ord. of 2-7-1974, art. VI, § A)
Sec. 50-2. - Right of entry for inspection, repair, and maintenance.
Duly authorized agents of the city shall have access at all hours to the premises of the consumer for the purpose of installing or removing city property, inspecting piping, reading and testing meters, observation, measurement, sampling, testing, or for any other purpose in connection with the water service and its facilities, and the sewer service and its facilities.
(Ord. of 2-7-1974, art. XV, § A)
Sec. 50-3. - Promulgation of policies, rules, regulations and requirements.
The mayor and council of the city shall have the authority, pursuant to this section, to promulgate policies, regulations and written provisions concerning the water and sewer service systems of the city. Any such written policies, regulations or requirements promulgated pursuant to this section shall be complied with by all customers and users of this service. Violations of any regulations shall result in penalties, discontinuances of service or other action as might be required pursuant to the provisions of this chapter and any and all other applicable federal, state or local provisions governing and regulating water and sewer service systems.
(Ord. of 8-28-2006, § IX(B))
Sec. 50-4. - Grant of easement required for extension of water or sewer system.
Extensions to the system shall be made only when the consumer shall grant or convey, or shall cause to be granted or conveyed, to the city a permanent easement of right-of-way across any property traversed by the water and sewer lines.
(Ord. of 2-7-1974, art. XV, § B)
Sec. 50-5. - Notice of change of occupancy; responsibility for services.
Not less than three days notice must be given, in person or in writing, at city hall to discontinue water and sewer service or to change occupancy. The outgoing party shall be responsible for all water consumed up to the time of departure or the time specified for departure, whichever period is longer. The new occupant shall apply for water service within 48 hours after occupying the premises and failure to do so will make him liable for paying for the water consumed since the last meter reading.
(Ord. of 2-7-1974, art. XVI, § A)
Sec. 50-6. - Tap fees.
Upon the application for a new water or sewer service connection by any customer, the tap fees specified in the city's fee schedule shall be paid to the city clerk as a nonrefundable tapping charge.
(Ord. of 8-28-2006, § V(A))
Sec. 50-7. - Annexation required for service connections outside the city limits.
The city shall not extend city utility services outside the geographical and jurisdictional limits of the city. Properties outside the city limits seeking connection to city water or sewer services must be annexed into the city to connect to such services.
Secs. 50-8—50-32. - Reserved.
ARTICLE II. - WATER

Sec. 50-33. - Application for service.
Application for the use of water shall be made to the city clerk by the owner or agent of the property to be benefited, designating the location of the property and stating the purposes for which the water may be required.
(Ord. of 2-7-1974, art. X, § A; Ord. of 8-28-2006, § III)
Sec. 50-34. - City to install distribution line; connection fee.
The city shall run a service line from its distribution line to the property line where the distribution line exists or is to be constructed, and runs immediately adjacent and parallel to the property to be served. No service charge, other than the connection fee provided in the city's fee schedule, will be made for a five-eighths by three-fourths meter. A proportionately greater charge than the connection fee above will be made for a meter of larger dimensions.
(Ord. of 2-7-1974, art. XIII, § A)
Sec. 50-35. - Ownership of water and sewer service lines.
(a)
The municipality shall own and maintain the water line from the main to the curb box. The property owner shall own and maintain the service line from the curb box to the premises served.
(b)
The municipality shall own and maintain the sewer line from the main to the service lateral. The property owner shall own and maintain the service line from the service lateral to the premises served.
(Ord. of 8-28-2006, § V(B), (C))
Sec. 50-36. - Work on service lines to be performed by licensed plumber.
All work on water and sewer lines owned by the property owner shall be performed by a licensed plumber.
(Ord. of 8-28-2006, § V(C))
Sec. 50-37. - Extension of distribution lines.
The city may make connections to service other properties not adjacent to its lines upon payment of reasonable costs for the extensions of its distribution lines as may be required to render such service.
(Ord. of 2-7-1974, art. XIII, § B)
Sec. 50-38. - Refusal of service for potential cross-connections.
The city reserves the right to refuse service unless the consumer's lines or pipings are installed in such a manner as to prevent cross-connections or back-flow.
(Ord. of 2-7-1974, art. XIII, § D)
Sec. 50-39. - Notification of disruptions in service.
Under normal conditions, the consumer will be notified of any anticipated interruptions of service by the city.
(Ord. of 2-7-1974, art. XIII, § E)
Sec. 50-40. - Use of city water restricted.
(a)
Water furnished by the city shall be used for consumption by the consumer, members of his household and employees only. The consumer shall not sell water to any other person or permit any other person to use said water. Water shall not be used for irrigation, fire protection, nor other purposes, except when water is available in sufficient quantity without interfering with the regular domestic consumption in the area served.
(b)
Disregard for this rule shall be sufficient cause for refusal and/or discontinuance of service.
(Ord. of 2-7-1974, art. XIV, § A; Ord. of 8-28-2006, § VI)
Sec. 50-41. - Cut-off valve to be installed and maintained by consumer.
The consumer shall furnish and maintain a private cut-off valve on the consumer's side of the water meter and a backflow on the sewage line.
(Ord. of 2-7-1974, art. XIV, § C; Ord. of 8-28-2006, § VI)
Sec. 50-42. - Piping to be installed and maintained by consumer.
The consumer's piping and apparatus shall be installed and maintained by the consumer at the consumer's expense, in a safe and efficient manner, and in accordance with the sanitary regulations of the state health department.
(Ord. of 2-7-1974, art. XIV, § D)
Sec. 50-43. - Private wells; proof of non-connection required.
In order to be received as a consumer and entitled to receive water from the city's water system, all applicants must offer proof that any private wells located on their property are not physically connected to the lines of the city's water system and all applicants by becoming consumers of the city covenant and agree that so long as they continue to be consumers of the city, they will not permit the connection of any private wells on their property to the city's water system.
(Ord. of 2-7-1974, art. XIV, § E)
Sec. 50-44. - Water meters required; installation; reading.
(a)
All premises using the city water supply shall be equipped with an adequate water meter furnished by the city at the expense of the property owner. All meters shall be installed on the edge of public rights-of-way, or where the water superintendent may determine. All meters shall be maintained by the city.
(b)
The city may install its meter at or near the property line or, at the city's option, on the consumer's property within three feet of the property line.
(c)
Where a meter or meter box is placed on the premises of a consumer, a suitable place shall be provided by the consumer therefor, unobstructed and accessible at all times to the meter reader.
(d)
Each water meter shall supply service to an individual consumer, business or commercial customer. Water meters shall not supply water to more than one residential, commercial or industrial customer.
(Ord. of 2-7-1974, art. XIII, § C; Ord. of 2-7-1974, art. XIV, §§ A, B; Ord. of 8-28-2006, §§ VI, XI(A))
Sec. 50-45. - Permission required for work performed by private plumber.
No plumber or other person shall make attachments to any pipe or water fixture, nor to any pipe where the water has been turned off unless permission has been granted by the water works authorities; nor shall any plumber or other person alter or extend any water pipes or attachments to conduct any water into any adjoining premises or any additional hydrants, stable, water closet, urinal, wash basin, cistern or fountain or for any purpose whatsoever without obtaining permission from the water works authorities, and, in every instance, the plumber, after having tested his work, must turn the water off and make returns to the water works office within 48 hours after completing the work.
(Ord. of 8-28-2006, § X(A))
Sec. 50-46. - Shut-off of water at curb stop restricted.
Water shall not be turned on or off under any circumstances by the curb stop to any premises for any purpose, but by the authority or superintendent of the water works, except only by the plumber for testing his work, who must turn the water off immediately thereafter, and not leave same on unless by permission.
(Ord. of 8-28-2006, § X(B))
Secs. 50-47—50-65. - Reserved.
ARTICLE III. - SEWER
DIVISION 1. - GENERALLY

Sec. 50-66. - Definitions.
The following words, terms and phrases, when used in this article, shall have the meanings ascribed to them in this section, except where the context clearly indicates a different meaning:
B.O.D. (denoting biochemical oxygen demand) means the quantity of oxygen utilized in the biochemical oxidation of organic matter under standard laboratory procedure in five days at 20 degrees Celsius, expressed in milligrams per liter.
Building drain means that part of the lowest horizontal piping of a drainage system which receives the discharge from soil, waste and other drainage pipes inside the walls of the building and conveys it to the building sewer, beginning five feet outside the inner face of the building wall.
Building sewer means the extension from the building drain to the public sewer or other place of disposal.
Garbage means solid wastes from the preparation, cooking and disposing of food, and from the handling, storage and sale of produce.
Health officer means the office designated by the county to enforce its health regulations.
Industrial wastes means the liquid wastes from industrial processes as distinct from sanitary sewage.
Natural outlet means any outlet into a watercourse, pond, ditch, lake or other body of surface water or groundwater.
pll means the logarithm of the reciprocal of the hydrogen ion concentration in moles per liter.
Properly shredded garbage means the wastes from the preparation, cooking and dispensing of food that have been shredded to such degree that all particles will be carried freely under the flow conditions normally prevailing in public sewers, with no particle greater than one-half inch in any dimension.
Public sewer means a sewer in which all owners of abutting properties have equal rights, and is controlled by public authority.
Sanitary sewer means a sewer which carries sewage and to which storm, surface and ground waters are not intentionally admitted.
Sewage means a combination of the water-carried wastes from residences, business buildings, institutions and industrial establishments, together with such groundwaters, surface waters and stormwaters as may be present.
Sewage treatment plant means any arrangement of devices and structures or lagoons used for treating sewage presently owned or afterward acquired by said city.
Sewer means a pipe or conduit for carrying sewage.
Sewerage works means all facilities for collecting, pumping, treating and disposing of sewage.
Storm sewer or storm drain means a sewer which carries stormwaters and surface waters and drainage, but excludes sewage and polluted industrial wastes.
Superintendent means:
(1)
The public utilities director or his designee; or
(2)
The superintendent or manager of the sewerage works of the city, or its authorized deputy, agent or representative, as designated by the governing authority.
Suspended solids means solids that either float on the surface of, or are in suspension in water, sewage, or other liquids; and which are removable by laboratory filtering.
Watercourse means a channel in which a flow of water occurs, either continuously or intermittently.
(Ord. of 2-7-1974, art. I)
Sec. 50-67. - Unsanitary deposits on public or private property prohibited.
(a)
It shall be unlawful for any person to place, deposit or permit to be deposited in an unsanitary manner upon public or private property within the city or in any area under the jurisdiction of said city, any human or animal excrement, garbage or other objectionable waste.
(b)
It shall be unlawful to discharge to any natural outlet within the city, or in any area under the jurisdiction of said city, any sanitary sewage, industrial wastes, or other polluted waters, except where suitable treatment has been provided in accordance with subsequent provisions of this ordinance.
(Ord. of 2-7-1974, art. II, §§ A, B)
Sec. 50-68. - Construction of privies, septic tanks, vaults, and cesspools restricted.
Except as hereinafter provided, it shall be unlawful to construct or maintain any privy, privy vault, septic tank, cesspool, or other facility intended or used for the disposal of sewage.
(Ord. of 2-7-1974, art. II, § C)
Sec. 50-69. - Use of public sewers required.
The owner of all houses, buildings, or properties used for human occupancy, employment, recreation or other purposes within the corporate limits of the city, located within 250 feet of a line of public sanitary sewer now in existence or after constructed to which such house, building or property may be connected so that sewage will flow therefrom and into such sewer line by gravity, is hereby required, at his own expense, to install suitable toilet facilities therein and to connect such facilities directly with said line of public sanitary sewer in accordance with the provisions of this article within 45 days after date of official notice to do so, or to so connect to a properly constructed and installed septic tank during said time period if he is unable within the terms hereof to connect to said sewer line.
(Ord. of 2-7-1974, art. II, § D; Ord. of 5-15-1980, § I)
Sec. 50-70. - Penalties.
Any person violating any provision of this article shall be served by the city with written notice of the violation that provides a reasonable time within which satisfactory correction of the violation must be accomplished. Failure of the responsible person to cure the violation within the time provided shall subject the violator to penalties as provided in section 1-11.
(Ord. of 2-7-1974, art. VIII, § A)
Secs. 50-71—50-98. - Reserved.
DIVISION 2. - PRIVATE SEWAGE DISPOSAL

Sec. 50-99. - Required if public sewer is not available.
If a structure used for human occupancy, employment, recreation or other purposes is not located within 250 feet of a line of public sanitary sewer, the building sewer shall be connected to a private sewage disposal system complying with the provisions of this article.
(Ord. of 2-7-1974, art. III, § A)
Sec. 50-100. - Permit required.
Before commencement of construction of a private sewage disposal system, the owner shall first obtain a written permit signed by the superintendent. The application for such permit shall be made on a form furnished by the city, which the applicant shall supplement by any plans, specifications and other information as are deemed necessary by the superintendent. A permit and the inspection fee as provided in the city's fee schedule shall be paid to the city at the times the application is filed.
(Ord. of 2-7-1974, art. III, § B)
Sec. 50-101. - Inspection; effective date of permit.
A permit for a private sewage disposal system shall not become effective until the installation is completed to the satisfaction of the superintendent. He shall be allowed to inspect the work at any stage of construction and, in any event, the applicant for the permit shall notify the superintendent when the work is ready for final inspection and before any underground portions are covered. The inspection shall be made within 48 hours of the receipt of notice by the superintendent.
(Ord. of 2-7-1974, art. III, § C)
Sec. 50-102. - Applicability of state and local regulations.
The type, capacities, location and layout of a private sewage disposal system shall comply with all recommendations of the state and local agencies concerned with the same.
(Ord. of 2-7-1974, art. III, § D)
Sec. 50-103. - Restrictions regarding lot area.
No permit shall be issued for any private sewage disposal system employing subsurface soil absorption facilities where the area of the lot is less than 15,000 square feet.
(Ord. of 2-7-1974, art. III, § D)
Sec. 50-104. - Discharge into public sewer and natural outlets prohibited.
No septic tank or cesspool shall be permitted to discharge to any public sewer or natural outlet.
(Ord. of 2-7-1974, art. III, § D)
Sec. 50-105. - Connection to public sewer required upon availability.
At such time as a public sewer becomes available within 250 feet of a property served by a private sewage disposal system, a direct connection shall be made to the public sewer in compliance with this article, and any septic tanks, cesspools and similar private sewage disposal facilities shall be abandoned and filled with suitable material.
(Ord. of 2-7-1974, art. III, § E)
Sec. 50-106. - Private system to be maintained in sanitary manner.
The owner shall operate and maintain the private sewage disposal facilities in a sanitary manner at all times, at no expense to the city.
(Ord. of 2-7-1974, art. III, § F)
Sec. 50-107. - Additional requirements may be imposed by health officer.
No statement contained in this article shall be construed to prohibit any additional requirements that may be imposed by the health officer.
(Ord. of 2-7-1974, art. III, § G)
Secs. 50-108—50-127. - Reserved.
DIVISION 3. - BUILDING SEWERS AND CONNECTIONS

Sec. 50-128. - Residential or commercial permit required; fees.
(a)
No unauthorized person shall uncover, make any connections with or opening into, use, alter or disturb any public sewer or appurtenances thereof without first obtaining a written permit from the superintendent. The permit fee shall be as provided in the city's fee schedule.
(b)
There shall be two classes of building sewer permits, one for residential and commercial service, and one for service to establishments producing industrial wastes. In either case, the owner or his agent shall make application on a special form furnished by the city. The permit application shall be supplemented by any plans, specifications or other information considered pertinent in the judgment of the superintendent.
(Ord. of 2-7-1974, art. IV, §§ A, B)
Sec. 50-129. - Owner responsible for costs; indemnification of city.
All cost and expense incident to the connection of the building sewer from the owner's building to the city property line shall be borne by the owner. The owner shall indemnify the city from any loss or damage that may be directly or indirectly occasioned by the connection of the building sewer.
(Ord. of 2-7-1974, art. IV, § C)
Sec. 50-130. - Connection to public sewer to be made by city.
Any connection from the city property line into the public sewer shall be made by the city.
(Ord. of 2-7-1974, art. IV, § C)
Sec. 50-131. - Separate building connections required; exceptions.
A separate and independent building sewer shall be provided for every building; except where one building stands at the rear of another or an interior lot and no private sewer is available or can be constructed to the rear building through an adjoining alley, court, yard, or driveway, the building sewer from the front building may be extended to the rear building and the whole considered as one building sewer.
(Ord. of 2-7-1974, art. IV, § D)
Sec. 50-132. - Utilization of existing sewers; approval of superintendent required.
Old building sewers may be used in connection with new buildings when they are found, on examination and test by the superintendent, to meet all requirements of this article.
(Ord. of 2-7-1974, art. IV, § E)
Sec. 50-133. - Construction specifications.
(a)
The building sewer shall be four-inch schedule 40 PVC pipe ASTM specifications. Joints shall be airtight and waterproof. Any part of the building sewer that is located within ten feet of a water service shall be constructed of four-inch schedule 40 PVC pipe.
(b)
The size and slope of the building sewer shall be subject to the approval of the superintendent, but in no event shall the diameter be less than four inches. The slope of such four-inch pipe shall not be less than one-eighth inch per foot.
(c)
Whenever possible, the building sewer shall be brought to the building at an elevation below the basement floor. No building sewer shall be laid parallel to or within three feet of any bearing wall, which might thereby be weakened. The building sewer shall be laid at uniform grade and in straight alignment insofar as possible. Changes in direction shall be made only with properly curved pipes and fittings.
(d)
In all buildings in which any building drain is too low to permit gravity flow to the public sewer, sanitary sewage carried by such drain shall be lifted by approved artificial means and discharged to the building sewer.
(e)
All excavations required for the installation of a building sewer shall be open trench work unless otherwise approved by the superintendent. Pipe laying and backfill shall be performed in accordance with ASTM specification C12; except that no backfill shall be placed until the work has been inspected.
(f)
All joints and connections shall be made gastight and watertight.
(g)
The connection of the building sewer into the public sewer shall be made at the Y branch, if such branch is available at a suitable location. If the public sewer is 12 inches in diameter or less, and no properly located Y branch is available, the city shall install a Y branch in the public sewer at the location specified by the superintendent. Where the public sewer is greater than 12 inches in diameter, and no properly located Y branch is available, a neat hole may be cut into the public sewer to receive the building sewer, which entry in the downstream direction at an angle of about 45 degrees. A 45-degree elbow may be used to make such connection, with the spigot end cut so as not to extend past the inner surface of the public sewer. The invert of the building sewer at the point of connection shall be at the same or at a higher elevation than the invert of the public sewer. A smooth, neat joint shall be made, and the connection made secure and watertight by encasement in concrete. Special fittings may be used for the connection only when approved by the superintendent.
(h)
All excavations for building sewer installation shall be adequately guarded with barricades and lights so as to protect the public from hazard. Streets, sidewalks, parkways and other public property disturbed in the course of the work shall be restored in a manner satisfactory to the city.
(Ord. of 2-7-1974, art. IV, §§ F—L, N; Ord. of 2006, § 1; Ord. of 8-28-2006, § 2)
Sec. 50-134. - Request for final inspection.
The applicant for the building sewer permit shall notify the superintendent when the building sewer is ready for inspection and connection to the public sewer.
(Ord. of 2-7-1974, art. IV, § M)
Secs. 50-135—50-151. - Reserved.
DIVISION 4. - DISCHARGE REGULATIONS

Sec. 50-152. - Discharge of wastewaters generally.
(a)
No person shall discharge or cause to be discharged any stormwater, surface water, groundwater, roof runoff, subsurface drainage, cooling water or unpolluted industrial process waters to any sanitary sewer.
(b)
Stormwater and all other unpolluted drainage shall be discharged to such sewers as are specifically designated as storm sewers, or to a natural outlet approved by the superintendent. Industrial cooling water or unpolluted process waters may be discharged upon approval of the superintendent, to a storm sewer or natural outlet.
(Ord. of 2-7-1974, art. V, §§ A, B)
Sec. 50-153. - Prohibited discharges.
Except as hereinafter provided, no person shall discharge or cause to be discharged any of the following described waters or wastes to any public sewer:
(1)
Any liquid or vapor having a temperature higher than 150 degrees Fahrenheit.
(2)
Any water or waste which may contain more than 100 milligrams per liter of fat, oil or greases.
(3)
Any gasoline, benzene, naphtha, fuel oil or other flammable or explosive liquid, solid or gas.
(4)
Any garbage that has not been properly shredded.
(5)
Any ashes, cinders, sand, mud, straw, shavings, metal, glass, rags, feathers, tar plastics, wood paunch, manure, or any other solid or viscous substance capable of causing obstruction to the flow in sewers or other interference with the proper operation of the sewage works.
(6)
Any waters or wastes having a pH lower than 5.5 or higher than 9.0, or having any other corrosive property capable of causing damage or hazard to structures, equipment and personnel of the sewerage works.
(7)
Any waters or wastes containing a toxic or poisonous substance in sufficient quantity to injure of interfere with any sewage treatment process, constitute a hazard to humans or animals, or create any hazard in the receiving waters of the sewage treatment plant.
FIXED UPPER LIMITS FOR CONSTITUENTS (PARTS PER MILLION):
EXPAND
(a) Cadmium .02 (f) Silver 1.0
(b) Chromium 1.0 (g) Lead 0.1
(c) Copper 1.0 (h) Zinc 3.0
(d) Cyanide 0.2 (i) Phenol 0.05
(e) Nickel 1.0 (j) Arsenic 0.05
  (8)
Any waters or wastes containing suspended solids of such character and quantity that unusual attention or expense is required to handle such materials at the sewage treatment plant.
(9)
Any noxious or malodorous gas or substance capable of creating a public nuisance.
(Ord. of 2-7-1974, art. V, § C)
Sec. 50-154. - Interceptors required; specifications and installation; maintenance.
(a)
Grease, oil and sand interceptors shall be provided when, in the opinion of the superintendent, they are necessary for the proper handling of liquid wastes containing grease in excessive amounts, or any flammable wastes, sand and other harmful ingredients; except that such interceptors shall not be required for private living quarters or dwelling units. All interceptors shall be of a type and capacity approved by the superintendent and shall be located as to be readily and easily accessible for cleaning and inspection.
(b)
Grease and oil interceptors shall be constructed of impervious materials capable of withstanding abrupt and extreme changes in temperature. They shall be of substantial construction, watertight and equipped with easily removable covers which, when bolted in place, shall be gastight and watertight.
(c)
When installed, all grease, oil and sand interceptors shall be maintained by the owner, at his expense, in continuously efficient operation at all times.
(Ord. of 2-7-1974, art. V, §§ D, E)
Sec. 50-155. - Certain wastes requiring review and approval of superintendent prior to discharge.
(a)
Review and approval of the superintendent shall be required for the admission into the public sewers of any waters or wastes:
(1)
Having a five-day biochemical oxygen demand greater than 300 milligrams per liter;
(2)
Containing more than 350 milligrams per liter of suspended solids;
(3)
Containing any quantity of substance having the characteristics described in section 50-153; or
(4)
Having an average daily flow greater than two percent of the average daily sewage flow of the city.
(b)
Where necessary in the opinion of the superintendent, the owner shall provide, at his expense, such preliminary treatment as may be necessary to:
(1)
Reduce the biochemical oxygen demand to 300 milligrams per liter and the suspended solids to 350 milligrams per liter;
(2)
Reduce objectionable characteristics or constituents to within the maximum limits provided for in section 50-153; or
(3)
Control the quantities and rates of discharge of such water or wastes.
Plans, specifications and any other pertinent information relating to proposed preliminary treatment facilities shall be submitted for the approval of the superintendent and no construction of such facilities shall be commenced until said approval is obtained in writing.
(Ord. of 2-7-1974, art. V, § F)
Sec. 50-156. - Maintenance of preliminary treatment facilities.
Where preliminary treatment facilities are provided for any waters or wastes, they shall be maintained continuously in satisfactory and effective operation, by the owner, at his expense.
(Ord. of 2-7-1974, art. V, § G)
Sec. 50-157. - Installation and maintenance of control manhole.
When required by the superintendent, the owner of any property served by a building sewer carrying industrial wastes shall install a suitable control manhole in the building sewer to facilitate observation, sampling and measurement of the wastes. Such manhole, when required, shall be accessibly and safely located, and shall be constructed in accordance with plans approved by the superintendent. The manhole shall be installed by the owner, at his expense, and the owner, at his expense, shall maintain the same so as to be safe and accessible at all times.
(Ord. of 2-7-1974, art. V, § H)
Sec. 50-158. - Testing standards and specifications.
All measurements, tests and analyses of the characteristics of waters and wastes to which reference is made in this article shall be determined in accordance with standard methods for the examination of water and sewage at the control manhole or upon suitable samples taken at such control manhole. In the event that no special manhole has been required, the control manhole shall be considered to be the nearest downstream manhole in the public sewer to the point at which the building sewer is connected.
(Ord. of 2-7-1974, art. V, § I)
Sec. 50-159. - No abrogation of city's right to enter into individual agreements.
No statement contained in this article shall be construed as preventing any special agreement or arrangement between the city and any industrial concern whereby an industrial waste of unusual strength or character may be accepted by the city for treatment, subject to payment therefor by the industrial concern.
(Ord. of 2-7-1974, art. V, § J)
Secs. 50-160—50-186. - Reserved.
ARTICLE IV. - CHARGES, BILLING, AND COLLECTIONS

Sec. 50-187. - Consumer of water, sewer, or garbage services required to pay fee for all city services.
The city provides water, sewer, and garbage collection services at the rates specified in the city fee schedule. Any person subscribing to less than all city services shall nevertheless be required to pay the applicable fee for all city services, regardless of whether the consumer actually uses the service.
Sec. 50-188. - Owner of multiple properties responsible for payment of all accounts; disconnection of services.
In the event a single property owner subscribes to city utility services for more than one property, the delinquency in payment of one account shall be grounds for disconnection of services to all properties of the same owner, regardless of delinquencies, until such time as all of that owner's accounts are paid in full, including late fees, penalties, disconnection charges, and reconnection charges.
Sec. 50-189. - Meter readings.
The water superintendent shall cause every water meter in the city to be read at such times as are necessary for monthly utility billing.
(Ord. of 2006, § XI; Ord. of 8-28-2006, § XI(B))
Sec. 50-190. - Disputed billings; rechecks.
(a)
If the consumer believes his bill to be in error, he shall present his claim, in person, at the city hall, before the bill becomes delinquent. Such claim, if made after the bill has become delinquent, shall not be effective in preventing discontinuance of service as heretofore provided. The consumer may pay such bill under protest and said payment shall not prejudice his claim.
(b)
The city will make a special water meter reading at the request of a consumer for a fee as set forth in the city's fee schedule; provided, however, that if such special reading discloses that the meter was over-read, no charge will be made.
(c)
For requests for rechecks when usage is less than 30 percent above the previous six months average or in the event of multiple recheck in the same monthly billing cycle, a recheck service charge shall be assessed. In the event any recheck reveals a meter reading error and/or a defective meter, no service charge shall be assessed.
(d)
Water meters will be tested at the request of the consumer upon payment to the city of the actual costs of making the test; provided, however, that if the meter is found to over-register beyond three percent of the correct volume, no charge will be made.
(Ord. of 2-7-1974, art. XIX, §§ A—C; Ord. of 2006, § XI; Ord. of 8-28-2006, § XI(C))
Sec. 50-191. - Estimated billing upon meter damage or failure.
If the seal of a meter is broken by other than the city's representative or if the meter fails to register correctly or is stopped for any cause, the consumer shall pay an about estimated from the record of his previous bills and/or from other proper data.
(Ord. of 2-7-1974, art. XIX, § D)
Sec. 50-192. - Billing; delinquencies and penalties.
(a)
Bills to customers for water and sewer service shall be mailed out on such day or days of each month as may be determined as desirable by the city. Bills shall be paid at the city hall.
(b)
Failure to receive bills or notices shall not prevent such bills from becoming delinquent nor relieve the consumer from payment of same.
(c)
The failure of water or sewer users to timely pay charges duly imposed shall result in the automatic imposition of the following penalties:
(1)
Nonpayment within 20 days from the due date will be subject to a penalty of ten percent of the delinquent account.
(2)
Nonpayment within 40 days from the date due will result in the water being shut off from the water user's property.
(3)
Nonpayment for 60 days after original due date will allow the city, in addition to all other rights and remedies, to terminate service to the property.
(Ord. of 2-7-1974, art. XVII, § A)
Sec. 50-193. - Disconnection for nonpayment; reconnection fees.
(a)
Service disconnected for nonpayment of bills will be restored only after bills are paid in full, such security deposit or additional security deposit as may be required by the mayor and council is made, and a reconnection fee as provided in the city's fee schedule is paid for each meter reconnected.
(b)
Upon discontinuance of service for nonpayment of bills, in the event reconnection is not requested within a reasonable time, the security deposit will be applied by the city toward settlement of the account. Any balance will be refunded to the consumer; however, if the security deposit is insufficient to cover the bill, the city may proceed to collect the balance in the usual way provided by law for collection of debts.
(Ord. of 2-7-1974, art. XVIII, § B; Ord. of 2006, § VII; Ord. of 8-28-2006, § VIII)
Sec. 50-194. - Disconnection of service for reasons other than nonpayment.
The city reserves a right to discontinue its service without notice for the following additional reasons:
(1)
To prevent fraud or abuse.
(2)
Consumer's willful disregard of the city's rules.
(3)
Emergency repairs.
(4)
Insufficiency of water supply due to circumstances beyond the city's control.
(5)
Legal processes.
(6)
Direction of public authorities.
(7)
Strike, riot, fire, flood, unavoidable accident.
(Ord. of 2-7-1974, art. XVIII, § C)
Sec. 50-195. - Water and sewer deposits and service charges generally.
The deposit and service charges for water and sewer service shall be as set forth in the city's fee schedule.
(Ord. of 2-7-1974, art. IX, § C; Ord. of 2006, § II; Ord. of 8-28-2006, § II)
Sec. 50-196. - Special rates for extraordinary service requirements.
Extraordinary circumstances, such as multiple dwelling units, industrial users, and fire protection shall be governed by special contract agreements made by the mayor and city council on recommendation of the city's engineer.
(Ord. of 2-7-1974, art. IX, § C)
Sec. 50-197. - Minimum service rates; use limitations; no free water provided.
The minimum charge, as provided in the city's fee schedule, shall be made for such connection subscribed for. Water furnished for a given lot shall be used on that lot only and, except for fire protection, the city shall not, under any condition, furnish water free of charge to anyone.
(Ord. of 2-7-1974, art. XII, § A)
Sec. 50-198. - Minimum and additional service deposits.
The deposit amounts set forth in the city fee schedule represent the minimum deposit required for the classes of water service customers within the municipal service area. In addition to that minimum, the city may, in its discretion, charge an additional deposit which shall not exceed 2½ time the customers' estimated average monthly bill during any consecutive 12-month period.
(Ord. of 2-7-1974, art. XI, § A; Ord. of 3-7-1974, § 1; Ord. of 2006, § IV; Ord. of 8-28-2006, § IV(A), (B))
Sec. 50-199. - Separate deposits required for each meter; deposit not transferrable from meter to meter.
A separate water service deposit shall be required for each meter and such deposits shall be considered nontransferable.
(Ord. of 2-7-1974, art. XI, § A; Ord. of 3-7-1974, § 1; Ord. of 2006, § IV; Ord. of 8-28-2006, § IV(B))
Sec. 50-200. - Refund of deposit upon discontinuance of service; deposit transferrable to new service location.
(a)
All deposits will be applied against the customer's final bill when such final bill is presented by the customer for payment or before a refund is made. Customers who have deposits with the municipality may transfer the deposit to a new service location, subject to any required minimum increase in the event the amount on deposit is a pre-existing amount prior to the enactment of this section or the deposit in the city's discretion, is not sufficient to ensure payment to the city for the services provided.
(b)
Refunds will be made by applying the deposit to the customer's account. In the event of final billing for discontinued accounts in which the deposit exceeds the amount due, refunds shall be sent by certified mail or may be claimed in person at the city clerk's office. Any unclaimed deposits shall inure to, and be forfeited to the city; unless claimed within 90 days of final payment to the municipality. There shall not be deposit refunds in amounts less than $2.50.
(Ord. of 2-7-1974, art. XI, § A; Ord. of 3-7-1974, § 1; Ord. of 2006, § IV; Ord. of 8-28-2006, § IV(C), (D))
Sec. 50-201. - Refund of deposit when service is not discontinued.
Deposits may, in the city's discretion, be refunded after 24 consecutive months of service, provided that the customer has no unsatisfactory credit problems. Refunds will be made by applying the deposit to the customer's account; provided that commercial and industrial customers are not eligible for deposit refunds. In the event of final billing for discontinued accounts in which the deposit exceeds the amount due, refunds shall be sent by certified mail or may be claimed in person at the city clerk's office. Any unclaimed deposits shall inure to, and be forfeited to the city; unless claimed within 90 days of final payment to the municipality. There shall not be deposit refunds in amounts less than $2.50.
(Ord. of 8-28-2006, § IV(D))
