Chapter 1 - GENERAL PROVISIONS

Sec. 1-1. - Designation and citation of Code.
The ordinances embraced in the following chapters and sections shall constitute and be designated "The Code of Ordinances, Ben Hill County, Georgia," and may be so cited. This Code shall also be known as the "Ben Hill County Code."
(Code 2000, § 1-1)
State Law reference— Codification requirements, O.C.G.A. § 36-80-19.
Sec. 1-2. - Definitions and rules of construction.
(a)
Generally. The ordinary signification shall be applied to all words, except words of art or words connected with a particular trade or subject matter when they shall have the signification attached to them by experts in such trade or with reference to such subject matter. In all interpretations the courts shall look diligently for the intention of the board of commissioners, keeping in view, at all times, the old law, the evil and the remedy. Grammatical errors shall not vitiate, and a transposition of words and clauses may be resorted to when the sentence or clause is without meaning as it stands.
(b)
Liberal construction; minimum requirements; overlapping provisions. All general provisions, terms, phrases and expressions contained in this Code shall be liberally construed in order that the true intent and meaning of the board of commissioners may be fully carried out. In the interpretation and application of any provision of this Code, they shall be held to be the minimum requirements adopted for the promotion of the public health, safety, comfort, convenience and general welfare. Where any provision of this Code imposes greater restrictions upon the subject matter than the other provisions of this Code, the provision imposing the greater restriction or regulation shall be deemed to be controlling. The specific controls over the general.
(c)
Enumeration. In the construction of this Code and of all ordinances and resolutions, the following rules shall govern, unless such construction would be inconsistent with the manifest intent of the board of commissioners:
As soon as possible. The term "as soon as possible" means within a reasonable time, having due regard to all the circumstances.
Board of commissioners, commissioners, and county commissioners. The terms "board of commissioners," "commissioners" and "county commissioners" means the board of commissioners of Ben Hill County, Georgia.
Bond. When a bond is required by law, an undertaking in writing, without a seal, is sufficient; and in all bonds where the names of the obligors do not appear in the bond, but are subscribed thereto, they shall be bound thereby.
Code. The term "Code" means The Code of Ordinances, Ben Hill County, Georgia, as designated in section 1-1.
Computation of time. Except as otherwise provided by time period computations specifically applying to other laws, when a period of time measured in days, weeks, months, years or other measurements of time except hours is prescribed for the exercise of any privilege or the discharge of any duty, the first day shall not be counted, but the last day shall be counted; and if the last day falls on Saturday or Sunday, the party having such privilege or duty shall have through the following Monday to exercise the privilege or to discharge the duty. When the last day prescribed for such action falls on a public and legal holiday as set forth in O.C.G.A. § 1-4-1, the party having the privilege or duty shall have through the next business day to exercise the privilege or to discharge the duty. When the period of time prescribed is less than seven days, intermediate Saturdays, Sundays and legal holidays shall be excluded in the computation.
Conjunctions. Where a provision involves two or more items, conditions, provisions or events connected by the conjunction "and," "or" or "either … or," the conjunction shall be interpreted as follows, provided in appropriate cases the terms "and" and "or" are interchangeable:
(1)
The term "and" indicates that all the connected items, conditions, provisions or events shall apply.
(2)
The term "or" indicates that the connected items, conditions, provisions or events may apply singly or in any combination.
(3)
The term "either … or" indicates that the connected items, conditions, provisions or events shall apply singly, but not in combination.
County. Whenever the term "county," "the county" or "this county" are used, they shall refer to Ben Hill County, Georgia.
Court. The term "court" means the court provided by law for the punishment of offenders against the laws or ordinances of the county, whether it shall be the court now constituted or a court hereafter established pursuant to law.
Delegation of authority. Whenever a provision requires the head of a department or an official of the county to do some act or perform some function, it shall be construed to authorize the head of such department or the official to designate, delegate and authorize subordinates to do the required act or perform the required function, unless the terms of the provisions designate otherwise.
Following. The term "following" means next after.
Gender. Words of one gender include all other genders.
Interpretation. In the interpretation and application of any provision of this Code, it shall be held to be the minimum requirements adopted for the promotion of the public health, safety, comfort, convenience and general welfare. Where any provision of the Code imposes greater restrictions upon the subject matter than the general provision imposed by the Code, the provision imposing the greater restriction or regulation shall be deemed to be controlling.
Joint authority. A joint authority given to any number of persons or officers may be executed by a majority of them, unless it is otherwise declared.
Keeper, proprietor. The terms "keeper" and "proprietor" mean and include persons, firms, associations, corporations, clubs and copartnerships, whether acting by themselves or as a servant, agent or employee.
May. The term "may" is to be construed as being permissive.
May not. The term "may not" has a prohibitory effect.
Month. The term "month" means a calendar month.
Must. The term "must" is to be construed as being mandatory.
Nontechnical and technical words. The ordinary significance shall be applied to all words, except words of art, or words connected with a particular trade or subject matter, in which case they shall have the significance attached to them by experts in the trade or with reference to the subject matter.
Number. The singular or plural number shall each include the other, unless expressly excluded.
Oath. The term "oath" shall be construed to include an affirmation in all cases in which, by law, an affirmation may be substituted for an oath, and in such cases the terms "swear" and "sworn" shall be interchangeable.
O.C.G.A., state acts. The abbreviation "O.C.G.A." means the Official Code of Georgia Annotated, as amended. A reference to a state act, whether by year and act number; year, act number and page; year and page; or short title is a reference to such act, as amended.
Officials, employees, boards, commissions or other agencies. Whenever reference is made to officials, employees, boards, commissions or other agencies by title only, the reference refers to the officials, employees, boards, commissions or other agencies of the county.
Owner. The term "owner," when applied to a building or land, shall include any part owner, joint owner, tenant in common, tenant in partnership or joint tenant of the whole or of a part of such building or land.
Person. The term "person" shall extend and be applied to firms, partnerships, associations, organizations, corporations and bodies politic, or any combination thereof, as well as to natural persons.
Personal property. The term "personal property" includes every species of property except real property, as herein described.
Preceding. The term "preceding" means generally next before unless the context requires a different significance.
Premises. Whenever the word "premises" is used, it shall mean a place.
Property. The term "property" includes real and personal property.
Public place. The term "public place" includes any place that the public is invited or permitted to go or congregate.
Real property. The term "real property" includes lands, tenements and hereditaments.
Residence. The term "residence" means the place adopted by a person as his place of habitation, and to which, whenever he is absent, he has the intention of returning. When a person eats at one place and sleeps at another, the place where such person sleeps shall be deemed his residence.
Schedule of fees and charges. The term "schedule of fees and charges" means the official consolidated list compiled and published by the county, which contains rates for utility and other public enterprises, fees, deposit amounts and various charges as determined from time to time by the board of commissioners, an official copy of which is maintained in the office of the county clerk where it is available for reference and review during normal business hours.
Seating, minimum. Where this Code requires seating for a minimum number of persons, only chairs, stools and booths shall be provided as the required seating. The capacity of seats without dividing arms shall be determined by allotting 18 inches per occupant.
Shall. The term "shall" is to be construed as being mandatory.
Sidewalk. The word "sidewalk" means that portion of a street between the curblines, or the lateral lines of a railway, and the adjacent property lines, intended for use by pedestrians.
Signature, subscription. A signature or subscription includes the mark of all illiterate or infirm persons.
State. Whenever the term "state" is used, it shall refer to the State of Georgia.
Street. The term "street" includes streets, sidewalks, avenues, boulevards, roads, alleys, lanes and all other public highways in the county unless otherwise provided.
Tenant, occupant. The term "tenant" or "occupant," when applied to a building or land, includes any person holding a written or oral lease of, or who occupies, the whole or a part of such building or land, either alone or with others.
Tense. The present or past tense shall include the future.
Time period. Words using the past or present tense include the future as well as the past and present.
Week. The term "week" means seven days.
Will. The term "will" is to be construed as being mandatory.
Writing. The term "writing" includes printing and all numerals, and also pictures, illustrations and printed or written designs.
Year. The term "year" means a calendar year.
(Code 2000, § 1-2)
State Law reference— Statutory definitions and rules of construction, O.C.G.A. § 1-3-1 et seq.; computation of time, O.C.G.A. § 1-3-1; construction of definitions, O.C.G.A. § 1-3-2; meaning of certain words, O.C.G.A. § 1-3-3; time, O.C.G.A. § 9-11-6.
Sec. 1-3. - Provisions considered continuations of existing ordinances.
The provisions appearing in this Code, so far as they are the same as ordinances adopted prior to this Code and included in such Code, shall be considered as continuations thereof and not as new enactments.
(Code 2000, § 1-3)
Sec. 1-4. - Catchlines of sections, history notes and editor's notes.
(a)
Catchlines. The catchlines of the several sections of this Code in boldface type are intended as mere catchwords to indicate the contents of the sections and shall not be deemed or taken to be titles of such sections nor as any part of such sections nor, unless expressly so provided, shall they be so deemed when any of such sections, including the catchlines, are amended or reenacted.
(b)
History or source notes. The history or source notes appearing in parentheses after sections in this Code are not intended to have any legal effect but are merely intended to indicate the source of matter contained in the section. Editor's notes, cross references, and state law references which appear after sections or subsections of this Code or which otherwise appear in footnote form are provided for the convenience of the user of this Code and have no legal effect.
(c)
Internal references. All references to chapters, articles, divisions, subdivisions or sections are to chapters, articles, divisions, subdivisions or sections of this Code, unless otherwise specified.
(Code 2000, § 1-4)
State Law reference— Notes and catchlines of Code sections not part of law, O.C.G.A. § 1-1-7.
Sec. 1-5. - Effect of repeal of ordinance.
(a)
The repeal of an ordinance shall not revive any ordinances in force before or at the time the ordinance repealed took effect.
(b)
The repeal of an ordinance shall not affect any punishment or penalty incurred before the repeal took effect, nor any suit, prosecution or proceeding pending at the time of the repeal, for an offense committed or cause of action arising under the ordinance repealed.
(Code 2000, § 1-5)
Sec. 1-6. - Severability of parts of Code.
It is declared to be the intention of the board of commissioners that the sections, paragraphs, sentences, clauses and phrases of this Code are severable; and if any phrase, clause, sentence, paragraph or section of this Code shall be declared invalid or unconstitutional by the valid judgment or decree of any court of competent jurisdiction, such invalidity or unconstitutionality shall not affect any of the remaining phrases, clauses, sentences, paragraphs and sections of this Code, since the same would have been enacted by the board of commissioners without incorporation in this Code of any such invalid or unconstitutional phrase, clause, sentence, paragraph or section.
(Code 2000, § 1-6)
State Law reference— Severability, O.C.G.A. § 1-1-3.
Sec. 1-7. - Ordinances not affected by Code.
Nothing in this Code or the ordinance adopting this Code shall be construed to repeal or otherwise affect the validity of any of the following:
(1)
Any offense or act committed or done or any penalty or forfeiture incurred or any contract or right established or accruing before the effective date of this Code.
(2)
Any ordinance or resolution promising or guaranteeing the payment of money for the county or authorizing the issuance of any bonds of the county or any evidence of the county's indebtedness.
(3)
Any contract or obligation assumed by the county.
(4)
Any ordinance fixing the salary of any county officer or employee.
(5)
Any right or franchise granted by the county.
(6)
Any ordinance dedicating, naming, establishing, locating, relocating, opening, widening, paving, etc., any street or public way in the county.
(7)
Any appropriation ordinance.
(8)
Any ordinance which, by its own terms, is effective for a stated or limited term.
(9)
Any ordinance providing for local improvements and assessing taxes for such improvements.
(10)
Any zoning ordinance.
(11)
Any ordinance dedicating or accepting, or vacating any subdivision plat.
(12)
Any ordinance describing or altering the boundaries of the county.
(13)
The administrative ordinances or resolutions of the county not in conflict or inconsistent with the provisions of this Code.
(14)
Any ordinance levying or imposing taxes not included in this Code.
(15)
Any ordinance establishing or prescribing street grades in the county.
(16)
Any ordinance setting the rate of ad valorem taxes.
(17)
Any ordinance adopting or amending the comprehensive plan.
(18)
Any ordinance that is temporary, although general in effect.
(19)
Any ordinance that is special, although permanent in effect.
(20)
Any ordinance the purpose of which has been accomplished.
(21)
The ordinance adopted August 7, 1977, regulating road construction in subdivisions and the resolution adopted March 8, 1988, relating to the definition of cul-de-sac streets are not repealed and shall continue in full force and effect pending a revision of the subject matter by the county.
No such ordinance shall be construed to revive any ordinance or part of an ordinance that has been repealed by a subsequent ordinance repealed by this chapter; and all such ordinances are recognized as continuing in full force and effect to the same extent as if set out at length in this Code.
(Code 2000, § 1-7)
Sec. 1-8. - Amendments to Code; effect of new ordinances; amendatory language.
(a)
All ordinances passed subsequent to this Code that amend, repeal or in any way affect this Code may be numbered in accordance with the numbering system of this Code and printed for inclusion in this Code. In the case of the repeal of chapters, sections and subsections or any part thereof by subsequent ordinances, such repealed portions may be excluded from this Code by omission from reprinted pages affected thereby. The subsequent ordinances as numbered and printed, or omitted in the case of repeal, shall be prima facie evidence of such subsequent ordinances until such time that this Code and subsequent ordinances numbered or omitted are readopted as a new Code of Ordinances by the board of commissioners.
(b)
Amendments to any of the provisions of this Code may be made by amending such provisions by specific reference to the section number of this Code in the following language: "Section _____ of The Code of Ordinances, Ben Hill County, Georgia, is hereby amended to read as follows:…." The new provisions shall then be set out in full as desired.
(c)
If a new section not heretofore existing in the Code is to be added, the following language shall be used: "The Code of Ordinances, Ben Hill County, Georgia, is hereby amended by adding a section (division, article or chapter) to be numbered _____, which section (division, article or chapter) reads as follows:…." The new section, division, article or chapter shall then be set out in full as desired.
(d)
All sections, divisions, articles, chapters or provisions desired to be repealed must be specifically repealed by section, division, article or chapter number, as the case may be.
(Code 2000, § 1-8)
Sec. 1-9. - Supplementation of Code.
(a)
Supplements to this Code shall be prepared and printed whenever authorized or directed by the county. A supplement to the Code shall include all substantive, permanent and general parts of ordinances passed by the board of commissioners during the period covered by the supplement and all changes made thereby in the Code. The pages of a supplement shall be so numbered that they will fit properly into the Code and will, where necessary, replace pages that have become obsolete or partially obsolete; and the new pages shall be so prepared that, when they have been inserted, the Code will be current through the date of the adoption of the latest ordinance included in the supplement.
(b)
In preparing a supplement to this Code, all portions of the Code that have been repealed shall be excluded from the Code by their omission from reprinted pages.
(c)
When preparing a supplement to this Code, the codifier (meaning the person authorized to prepare the supplement) may make formal, nonsubstantive changes in ordinances and parts of ordinances included in the supplement, insofar as it is necessary to do so to embody them into a unified code. For example, the codifier may:
(1)
Organize the ordinance material into appropriate subdivisions.
(2)
Provide appropriate catchlines, headings and titles for sections and other subdivisions of the Code printed in the supplement, and make changes in such catchlines, headings and titles.
(3)
Assign appropriate numbers to sections and other subdivisions to be inserted in the Code and, where necessary to accommodate new material, change existing section or other subdivision numbers.
(4)
Change the term "this ordinance" or terms of the same meaning to "this chapter," "this article," "this division," etc., as the case may be, or to "sections _____ to _____" (inserting section numbers to indicate the sections of the Code that embody the substantive sections of the ordinance incorporated into the Code).
(5)
Make other nonsubstantive changes necessary to preserve the original meanings of ordinance sections inserted into the Code.
(d)
In no case shall the person make any change in the meaning or effect of ordinance material included in the supplement or already embodied in the Code.
(Code 2000, § 1-9)
Sec. 1-10. - Liability for violations by corporations; other associations.
(a)
Any violation of this Code by any officer, agent or other person acting for or employed by any corporation or unincorporated association or organization, while acting within the scope of his office or employment, shall in every case also be deemed to be a violation by the corporation, association or organization.
(b)
Any officer, agent or other person acting for or employed by any corporation or unincorporated association or organization shall be subject and liable to punishment as well as the corporation or unincorporated association or organization for the violation by it of any provisions of this Code, where the violation was the act or omission, or the result of the act, omission or order, of any such person.
(Code 2000, § 1-11)
Sec. 1-11. - General penalty; continuing violations.
(a)
In this section, the term "violation of this Code" means:
(1)
Doing an act that is prohibited or made or declared unlawful, an offense or a misdemeanor by ordinance or by rule or regulation authorized by ordinance;
(2)
Failure to perform an act that is required to be performed by ordinance or by rule or regulation authorized by ordinance; or
(3)
Failure to perform an act if the failure is declared a misdemeanor or an offense or unlawful by ordinance or by rule or regulation authorized by ordinance.
(b)
In this section, the term "violation of this Code" does not include the failure of a county officer or county employee to perform an official duty, unless it is provided that failure to perform the duty is to be punished as provided in this section or it is clear from the context that it is the intent to impose the penalty provided for in this section upon the officer or employee.
(c)
Except as otherwise provided:
(1)
A person convicted of a violation of this Code shall be punished by a fine not exceeding $1,000.00 or imprisonment for a term not exceeding six months, or any combination thereof.
(2)
With respect to violations of this Code that are continuous with respect to time, each day the violation continues is a separate offense.
(3)
With respect to violations of this Code that are not continuous with respect to time, each day the violation continues is a separate offense.
(4)
The court shall have the power and authority to place any person found guilty of a violation of this Code on probation and to suspend or modify any fine or sentence.
(d)
The imposition of a penalty does not prevent revocation or suspension of a license, permit or franchise or other administrative sanctions.
(e)
Violations of this Code that are continuous with respect to time are a public nuisance and may be abated by injunctive or other equitable relief and by such other means as are provided by law. The imposition of a penalty does not prevent equitable relief.
(1)
In every case in which any court in the county, with the exception of any municipal court, shall impose a fine that shall be construed to include costs, for any offense against a criminal or traffic law of the state or any offense against a county ordinance, there shall be imposed as an additional penalty a sum equal to ten percent of the original fine.
(2)
At the time of posting bail or bond in any case involving a violation of a criminal or traffic law of the state or a violation of a county ordinance, an additional sum equal to ten percent of the original amount of bail or bond shall be posted. In every case in which any court in the county, with the exception of municipal courts, shall order the forfeiture of bail or bond, the additional sum equal to ten percent of the original bail or bond shall be collected.
(3)
The additional penalties set forth in this section shall be in addition to that amount required by O.C.G.A. § 47-17-60 to be paid into the peace officers' annuity and benefit fund, or O.C.G.A. § 47-11-51 to be paid into the judges of probate courts retirement funds, or by any other provision of laws.
(4)
The additional penalties as prescribed in this section shall be assessed and collected by the clerk or court officer charged with the duty of collecting moneys arising from fines and forfeited bonds. Such additional penalties shall be paid over to the board of commissioners by the tenth day of the month following the month in which these sums are collected.
(5)
All such sums collected and paid over to the board of commissioners shall be deposited into a special account, which shall be known as the county jail fund.
(6)
All moneys collected pursuant to this section and placed in the county jail fund shall be expended solely and exclusively for construction, operating and staffing the county jail, or for such other purposes as specified in O.C.G.A. § 15-21-95.
(7)
The additional penalties provided for by this section shall not be imposed or collected in any court operated by any municipality located in the county.
(Code 2000, § 1-12; Res. of 1-4-1990)
State Law reference— Magistrate courts, O.C.G.A. § 15-10-1 et seq.; violation of county ordinances, O.C.G.A. § 15-10-60 et seq.; imposition of additional penalty for certain drug offenses, O.C.G.A. § 15-21-100; imposition of additional penalty for offense of driving under the influence of alcohol or drugs, O.C.G.A. § 15-21-112; additional penalty to be imposed in criminal and traffic cases to provide training to law enforcement officers and prosecuting officials, O.C.G.A. § 15-21-73; additional penalty assessments for jail construction and staffing, O.C.G.A. § 15-21-93; display of driver's license for violations of laws pertaining to traffic and motor vehicles, O.C.G.A. § 17-6-11; punishment for misdemeanors generally, O.C.G.A. § 17-10-3; alternative punishments for violations involving a traffic offense, O.C.G.A. § 17-10-3(d); maximum punishments which may be imposed for violations of county ordinances, O.C.G.A. § 36-1-20(b); county responsibility for sentencing and maintenance of inmates, O.C.G.A. § 42-5-51(a); payments to peace officers annuity and benefit fund from revenues collected from fines and fees, O.C.G.A. § 47-17-60 et seq.
Sec. 1-12. - Prior offenses, penalties, contracts or rights not affected by adoption of Code.
(a)
Nothing in this Code or the ordinance adopting this Code shall affect any offense or act committed or done or any penalty or forfeiture incurred or any contract or right established or accruing before the effective date of this Code.
(b)
The adoption of this Code shall not be interpreted as authorizing or permitting any use or the continuance of any use of a structure or premises in violation of any ordinance or resolution in effect on the date of adoption of this Code.
