ARTICLE IV. - PERSONAL CARE HOMES AND COMMUNITY LIVING ARRANGEMENTS[1]

Footnotes:
--- (1) ---
Editor's note— Ord. No. 2014-16, § 1, adopted Oct. 23, 2014, repealed the former art. IV, §§ 8-91—8-97, and enacted a new art. IV as set out herein. The former art. IV pertained to similar subject matter and derived from Ord. No. 2013-16, §§ 1(6-61)—1(6-67).

Sec. 8-91. - Definitions.
The following words, terms and phrases, when used in this article, shall have the meanings ascribed to them in this section, except where the context clearly indicates a different meaning:
Administrator shall mean the person designated to maintain responsibility of the household on a 24-hour basis, seven days a week and 365 days a year and who shall live on site. The administrator shall be registered with the state of Georgia department of community health.
Employee shall mean any person who receives compensation in any form for services rendered in their duties at a community living arrangement or a personal care home and who has been approved by the state of Georgia department of community health to be employed at such a location.
Family or family member shall mean one or more persons occupying a single dwelling unit, provided that all persons are related by blood or marriage or are lawful wards, and shall also include a group of persons, not exceeding four, living and cooking together as a single, nonprofit housekeeping unit. The members of said group need not be related by blood or marriage or be lawful wards, where said group is occupying a single dwelling unit.
Community living arrangement shall mean any residence, whether operated for profit or not, that undertakes through its ownership or management to provide or arrange for the provision of daily personal services, supports, care, or treatment exclusively for two or more adults who are not related to the owner or administrator by blood or marriage and whose residential services are financially supported, in whole or in part, by funds designated through the department of human resources, division of mental health, developmental disabilities, and addictive diseases. A community living arrangement is also referred to as a "residence".
Personal care home shall mean any dwelling, whether operated for profit or not, which undertakes through its ownership or management to provide or arrange for the provision of housing, food service, and one or more personal services for two or more adults who are not related to the owner or administrator by blood or marriage.
Resident shall mean any non-family adult living in a community living arrangement or personal care home and receiving services, supports, care, or treatment.
(Ord. No. 2014-16, § 1, 10-23-2014)
Sec. 8-92. - Permit required.
Prior to offering any services to residents, the owner of a community living arrangement or a personal care home must obtain a permit to operate said facility within the unincorporated portion of Fayette County.
(Ord. No. 2014-16, § 1, 10-23-2014)
Sec. 8-93. - Application.
Any person or entity making application for a permit required by section 8-92 shall submit a complete application prior to being issued a permit. A complete application shall consist of the form required by Fayette County along with the following information and documentation. An application is not considered complete unless the following material is attached thereto:
(a)
The owner shall provide a copy of the application submitted to the state and a copy of the approved state permit.
(b)
For the administrator and/or owner (if different), the following information shall be provided:
(1)
Personal data including:
a.
Name and address;
b.
Date of birth; and
c.
If the individual is the administrator, an affidavit of residency on site.
(2)
The names, addresses, and phone numbers of at least three individuals, other than family members, as references.
(3)
A background check conducted by the Fayette County Sheriff's Office.
(c)
A complete list of all employees, as well as an affidavit of approval from the Georgia Department of Community Health or Georgia Department of Human Resources.
(d)
An approval letter from the Fayette County Department of Environmental Health stating that the facility has an adequate septic system.
(e)
An approval letter from the Fayette County Department of Planning and Zoning showing that the use is permitted for the relevant zoning district.
(f)
An approval letter from the Fayette County Department of Building Permits and Inspections showing that the site has passed all relevant inspections.
(g)
An approval letter from the Fayette County Fire Marshal showing that the site is in compliance with all life safety codes as required by state and local law.
(h)
A copy of a liability insurance policy as required by state law.
(i)
Any other information deemed necessary by Fayette County code enforcement or the Fayette County Board of Commissioners.
(Ord. No. 2014-16, § 1, 10-23-2014)
Sec. 8-94. - Operational procedures.
(a)
No community living arrangement or personal care home shall have more than three residents and one administrator living on site.
(b)
All occupants of the permitted location who are not residents receiving care must be family or family members as defined in section 8-91 of this article.
(c)
Every occupant of the permitted location, regardless of whether they receive care services, shall have a minimum square footage and bed space for residents as required by state and local law.
(d)
Each permitted facility shall maintain records of treatment as required by state law and/or regulations of the Georgia Department of Community Health and/or the Georgia Department of Behavioral Health and Developmental Disabilities.
(Ord. No. 2014-16, § 1, 10-23-2014)
Sec. 8-95. - Permit issued.
Upon receipt and review of a completed application, the county shall issue a permit in accordance with this article and all other relevant state and local laws.
(Ord. No. 2014-16, § 1, 10-23-2014)
Sec. 8-96. - Fees.
Permits shall be issued on a yearly basis and shall expire at midnight on December 31 of each year. A permit fee shall be set by the Fayette County Board of Commissioners as part of a schedule of fees and shall include an application/investigation fee (which shall be nonrefundable and shall not be deducted from the permit fee) and an annual permit fee.
(Ord. No. 2014-16, § 1, 10-23-2014)
Sec. 8-97. - Denial or revocation of permit.
In addition to any other justification for denial or revocation stated in this article or any other state or local law, a permit for a community living arrangement or personal care home may be revoked upon grounds including, but not limited to, the following:
(a)
The permit holder has committed fraud in the rendering of services or fraud or deceit in obtaining a permit;
(b)
The permit holder is addicted to the use of intoxicating liquors, narcotics or stimulants to such an extent as to incapacitate such person or to the extent the services rendered are not being fulfilled;
(c)
The permit holder or any employee has engaged in any fraudulent, false, misleading or deceptive practices in the operation of the facility;
(d)
The state permit has been suspended or revoked; or
(e)
The permit holder, resident or any employee commits any criminal act at the permit holder's premises.
(Ord. No. 2014-16, § 1, 10-23-2014)
Sec. 8-98. - Adoption of state regulations.
In addition to the provisions of this article, the rules and regulations of the Georgia Department of Human Services and the Georgia Department of Community Health with regard to community living arrangements, chapter 290-9-37, and personal care homes, chapter 111-8-62, as they existed on October 23, 2014, are hereby adopted as part of this Code of Ordinances.
(Ord. No. 2014-16, § 1, 10-23-2014)
Secs. 8-99—8-122. - Reserved.
