Chapter 1 - GENERAL PROVISIONS

Sec. 1-1. - Contents and citation to Code of Ordinances.
The ordinances embraced in the following chapters and sections shall constitute and be designated "The Code of Fayette County, Georgia," and may be so cited. The Code consists of subparts A and B.
(Code 1983, § 1-1; Code 1992, § 1-1)
State Law reference— Codification requirements, O.C.G.A. § 36-80-19.
Sec. 1-2. - Definitions and rules of construction.
In the construction of this Code, and of all ordinances, the following definitions and rules shall be observed, unless such construction would be inconsistent with the manifest intent of the board of commissioners:
As soon as possible. The term "as soon as possible" means within a reasonable time, having due regard to all the circumstances.
Board of commissioners. The term "board of commissioners" means the board of commissioners of Fayette County, Georgia.
Code. The term "Code" means The Code of Fayette County, Georgia, as designated in section 1-1, consisting of subparts A and B.
Computation of time. When a period of time measured in days, weeks, months, years, or other measurements of time except hours is prescribed for the exercise of any privilege or the discharge of any duty, the first day shall not be counted but the last day shall be counted; and, if the last day falls on Saturday or Sunday, the party having such privilege or duty shall have through the following Monday to exercise the privilege or to discharge the duty. When the last day prescribed for such action falls on a public and legal holiday as set forth in O.C.G.A. § 1-4-1, the party having the privilege or duty shall have through the next business day to exercise the privilege or to discharge the duty. When the period of time prescribed is less than seven days, intermediate Saturdays, Sundays, and legal holidays shall be excluded in the computation.
Conjunctions. Where a provision involves two or more items, conditions, provisions or events connected by the conjunction "and," "or" or "either …," the conjunction shall be interpreted as follows, provided in appropriate cases the terms "and" and "or" are interchangeable:
(1)
The term "and" indicates that all the connected items, conditions, provisions or events shall apply.
(2)
The term "or" indicates that the connected items, conditions, provisions or events may apply singly or in any combination.
(3)
The term "either … or" indicates that the connected items, conditions, provisions or events shall apply singly, but not in combination.
County. The term "county" means Fayette County, Georgia.
Delegation of authority. Whenever a provision requires the head of a department or an officer of the county to do some act or make certain inspections, it is to be construed to authorize the head of the department or officer to designate, delegate and authorize subordinates to perform the required act or to make the required inspection unless the terms of the provision or section designate otherwise.
Following. The term "following" means next after.
Gender. Terms of one gender include all other genders.
Generally. The ordinary signification shall be applied to all terms, except terms of art or words connected with a particular trade or subject matter when they shall have the signification attached to them by experts in such trade or with reference to such subject matter. In all interpretations the courts shall look diligently for the intention of the council, keeping in view, at all times, the old law, the evil and the remedy. Grammatical errors shall not vitiate, and a transposition of words and clauses may be resorted to when the sentence or clause is without meaning as it stands.
Joint authority. All words giving a joint authority to three or more persons or officers shall be construed as giving such authority to a majority of such persons or officers.
Keeper and proprietor. The terms "keeper" and "proprietor" mean and include the person, as hereinafter defined, whether acting in person or through a servant, agent or employee.
Liberal construction; minimum requirements; overlapping provisions. All general provisions, terms, phrases and expressions contained in this Code shall be liberally construed in order that the true intent and meaning of the council may be fully carried out. In the interpretation and application of any provision of this Code, they shall be held to be the minimum requirements adopted for the promotion of the public health, safety, comfort, convenience and general welfare. Where any provision of this Code imposes greater restrictions upon the subject matter than the other provisions of this Code, the provision imposing the greater restriction or regulation shall be deemed to be controlling. The specific controls over the general.
May. The term "may" is to be construed as being permissive.
May not. The term "may not" has a prohibitory effect.
Month. The term "month" means a calendar month.
Must. The term "must" is to be construed as being mandatory.
Number. The singular and plural number includes the other.
Oath. The term "oath" shall be construed to include an affirmation in all cases in which, by law, an affirmation may be substituted for an oath, and in such cases the terms "swear" and "sworn" shall be interchangeable.
O.C.G.A., state acts. The abbreviation "O.C.G.A." means the Official Code of Georgia Annotated, as amended. A reference to a state act, whether by year and act number; year, act number and page; year and page; or short title is a reference to such act, as amended.
Officials, employees, boards, commissions or other agencies. Whenever reference is made to officials, employees, boards, commissions or other agencies by title only, the reference refers to the officials, employees, boards, commissions or other agencies of the county.
Owner. The term "owner," applied to a building or a land, shall include any part owner, joint owner, tenant in common, tenant in partnership, joint tenant, or a tenant by the entirety, of the whole or of a part of such a building or land.
Person. The term "person" shall extend and be applied to associations, clubs, organizations, societies, firms, companies, partnerships, receivers, trustees, and bodies politic and corporate as well as to individuals.
Personal property. The term "personal property" includes every species of property except real property, as herein described.
Preceding. The term "preceding" means next before.
Premises. Whenever the term "premises" is used, it means place or places.
Property. The term "property" includes real and personal property.
Public place. The term "public place" means any park, cemetery, school yard or open space adjacent thereto, street, as hereinafter defined, or any area available and/or accessible to the public.
Real property. The term "real property" includes lands, tenements and hereditaments.
Residence. The term "residence" shall be construed to mean the place adopted by a person as his place of habitation, and to which, whenever he is absent, he has the intention of returning. When a person eats at one place and sleeps at another, the place where such person sleeps shall be deemed his residence.
Sidewalk. The term "sidewalk" means that portion of a street between the curb lines, or the lateral lines of a railway, and the adjacent property lines, intended for use by pedestrians.
Signature or subscription. The "signature" or "subscription" of a person includes a mark when the person cannot write.
State. The term "state" means the State of Georgia.
Street. The term "street" means the entire width between boundary lines of every way publicly maintained when any part thereof is open to the use of the public for purposes of vehicular travel.
Tenant, occupant. The term "tenant" or "occupant," applied to a building or land, includes any person holding a written or oral lease or who occupies a whole or a part of such building or land, either alone or with others.
Tense. Terms using the past or present tense include the future as well as the past and present.
Week. The term "week" shall be construed to mean seven days.
Will. The term "will" is to be construed as being mandatory.
Written or in writing. The terms "written" or "in writing" shall be construed to include any representation of words, letters or figures, whether by printing or otherwise.
Year. The term "year" means a calendar year.
(Code 1983, §§ 1-2, 5-41; Code 1992, § 1-2)
Sec. 1-3. - Catchlines of sections; effect of history notes; references in Code.
(a)
The catchlines of the several sections of this Code in boldface type are intended as mere catchwords to indicate the contents of the sections and shall not be deemed or taken to be titles of such sections nor as any part of such sections nor, unless expressly so provided, shall they be so deemed when any of such sections, including the catchlines, are amended or reenacted.
(b)
The history or source notes appearing in parentheses after sections in this Code are not intended to have any legal effect but are merely intended to indicate the source of matter contained in the section. Editor's notes, cross references, and state law references which appear after sections or subsections of this Code or which otherwise appear in footnote form are provided for the convenience of the user of this Code and have no legal effect.
(c)
All references to chapters, articles, divisions, subdivisions or sections are to chapters, articles, divisions, subdivisions or sections of this Code, unless otherwise specified.
(Code 1983, § 1-3; Code 1992, § 1-3)
Sec. 1-4. - Effect of repeal of ordinances.
(a)
The repeal of an ordinance shall not revive any ordinances.
(b)
The repeal of an ordinance shall not affect any punishment or penalty incurred before the repeal took effect, nor any suit, prosecution or proceeding pending at the time of the repeal, for any offense committed or cause of action arising under the ordinance repealed.
(Code 1983, § 1-4; Code 1992, § 1-4)
Sec. 1-5. - Amendments to the Code; new ordinances; amendatory language.
(a)
All ordinances passed subsequent to this Code that amend, repeal or in any way affect this Code may be numbered in accordance with the numbering system of this Code and printed for inclusion herein. In the case of repealed chapters, sections or subsections of any part thereof, by subsequent ordinances, such repealed portions may be excluded from the Code by omission from reprinted pages affected thereby. Amendments to any of the provisions of this Code may be made by amending such provisions by specific reference to the section number in the following language: "that section _____ of the Fayette County Code, is hereby amended to read as follows:…." The new provisions may then be set out in full as desired.
(b)
In the event a new section not heretofore existing in this Code is to be added, the following language may be used: "that part of the Fayette County Code, is hereby amended by adding a section (or article or chapter) to be numbered _____, which said section reads as follows:…. The new section may then be set out in full as desired. All sections, articles, chapters or provisions desired to be repealed should be specifically repealed by section, article or chapter number as the case may be.
(Code 1983, § 1-6; Code 1992, § 1-6)
Sec. 1-6. - Supplementation of Code.
(a)
Supplements to this Code shall be prepared and printed whenever authorized or directed by the county. A supplement to the Code shall include all substantive permanent and general parts of ordinances adopted during the period covered by the supplement and all changes made thereby in the Code. The pages of a supplement shall be so numbered that they will fit properly into the Code and will, where necessary, replace pages which have become obsolete or partially obsolete, and the new pages shall be so prepared that, when they have been inserted, the Code will be current through the date of the adoption of the latest ordinance included in the supplement.
(b)
In preparing a supplement to this Code, all portions of the Code that have been repealed shall be excluded from the Code by the omission thereof from reprinted pages.
(c)
When preparing a supplement to this Code, the person authorized to prepare the supplement may make formal, nonsubstantive changes in ordinances or resolutions and parts of ordinances or resolutions included in the supplemental, insofar as it is necessary to do so to embody them into a unified code. For example, the person may:
(1)
Organize the ordinance material into appropriate subdivisions.
(2)
Provide appropriate catchlines, headings and titles for sections and other subdivisions of the Code printed in the supplement and make changes in such catchlines, headings and titles.
(3)
Assign appropriate numbers to sections and other subdivisions to be inserted in the Code and, where necessary to accommodate new material, change section or other numbers.
(4)
Change the words "this ordinance" or words of the same meaning to "this chapter," "this article," "this division," etc., as the case may be, or to "sections _____ to _____" (inserting section numbers to indicate the sections of the Code that embody the substantive sections of the ordinance incorporated into the Code).
(5)
Make other nonsubstantive changes necessary to preserve the original meaning of ordinances inserted into the Code.
(d)
In no case shall the person make any change in the meaning or effect of ordinance material included in the supplement or already embodied in the Code.
Sec. 1-7. - Penalties for violation of Code of Ordinances.
(a)
In this section, the term "violation of this Code" means:
(1)
Doing an act that is prohibited or made or declared unlawful, an offense or a misdemeanor by ordinance or by rule or regulation authorized by ordinance;
(2)
Failure to perform an act that is required to be performed by ordinance or by rule or regulation authorized by ordinance; or
(3)
Failure to perform an act if the failure is declared a misdemeanor or an offense or unlawful by ordinance or by rule or regulation authorized by ordinance.
(b)
In this section, the term "violation of this Code" does not include the failure of a county officer or county employee to perform an official duty, unless it is provided that failure to perform the duty is to be punished as provided in this section or it is clear from the context that it is the intent to impose the penalty provided for in this section upon the officer or employee.
(c)
Except as otherwise provided:
(1)
A person convicted of a violation of this Code shall be punished by a fine not exceeding $1,000.00 or imprisonment for a term not exceeding 60 days, or any combination thereof.
(2)
With respect to violations of this Code that are continuous with respect to time, each day the violation continues is a separate offense.
(3)
With respect to violations of this Code that are not continuous with respect to time, each day the violation continues is a separate offense.
(4)
The court shall have the power and authority to place any person found guilty of a violation of Code on probation and to suspend or modify any fine or sentence.
(d)
The imposition of a penalty does not prevent revocation or suspension of a license, permit or franchise or other administrative sanctions.
(e)
Violations of this Code that are continuous with respect to time are a public nuisance and may be abated by injunctive or other equitable relief and by such other means as are provided by law. The imposition of a penalty does not prevent equitable relief.
(Code 1992, § 1-8; Ord. No. 88-07, § 1-8, 6-23-1988; Ord. No. 97-02, 2-12-1997)
State Law reference— Violations of county ordinances, O.C.G.A. §§ 15-10-60 et seq., 36-1-20(b).
Sec. 1-8. - Severability of parts of Code.
It is hereby declared to be the intention of the board of commissioners that the sections, paragraphs, sentences, clauses and phrases of this Code are severable, and if any such phrase, clause, sentence, paragraph or section shall be declared unconstitutional or invalid by the valid judgment or decree of any court of competent jurisdiction, such unconstitutionality or invalidity shall not affect any of the remaining phrases, clauses, sentences, paragraphs and sections of this Code, since the same would have been enacted without the incorporation of any such unconstitutional or invalid phrase, clause, sentence, paragraph or section.
(Code 1983, § 1-5; Code 1992, § 1-5)
Sec. 1-9. - Provisions considered as continuations of existing ordinances.
The provisions appearing in this Code, insofar as they are the same as those of ordinances and resolutions existing at the time of adoption of this Code, shall be considered as continuations thereof and not as new enactments.
Sec. 1-10. - Prior offenses, penalties, contracts or rights not affected by adoption of Code.
(a)
Nothing in this Code or the ordinance adopting this Code shall affect any offense or act committed or done or any penalty or forfeiture incurred or any contract or right established or accruing before the effective date of this Code.
(b)
The adoption of this Code shall not be interpreted as authorizing or permitting any use or the continuance of any use of a structure or premises in violation of any ordinance or resolution in effect on the date of adoption of this Code.
Sec. 1-11. - Certain ordinances not affected by Code.
Nothing in this Code or the ordinance adopting this Code affects the validity of any the following ordinances or portions of ordinances not in this Code, which ordinances or portions of ordinances continue in full force and effect to the same extent as if published at length in this Code:
(1)
Promising or guaranteeing the payment of money or authorizing the issuance of bonds or other instruments of indebtedness.
(2)
Authorizing or approving any contract, deed, or agreement.
(3)
Granting any right or franchise.
(4)
Making or approving any appropriation or budget.
(5)
Providing for salaries or other employee benefits not codified in this Code.
(6)
Adopting or amending the comprehensive plan.
(7)
Levying or imposing any special assessment.
(8)
Dedicating, establishing, naming, locating, relocating, opening, paving, widening, repairing or vacating any road, street, sidewalk or alley.
(9)
Dedicating, accepting or vacating any plat or subdivision.
(10)
Levying, imposing or otherwise relating to taxes not codified in this Code.
(11)
Rezoning property.
(12)
That is temporary, although general in effect.
(13)
That is special, although permanent in effect.
(14)
The purpose of which has been accomplished.
