ARTICLE IV. - OPERATIONAL REGULATIONS
DIVISION 1. - IN GENERAL

Sec. 6-121. - Hours of operation.
(a)
Except as to the provisions of paragraph (b) of this section relating to package sales of malt beverages and wines during certain hours on Sunday, retail dealers of malt beverages and/or wine shall not engage in the sale of such beverages except between the hours of 6:00 a.m. to 1:00 a.m. on weekdays and between 6:00 a.m. and 12:00 midnight on Saturdays and shall not permit their places of business to be opened for the sale of such beverages on Sunday, Christmas Day, or any other days prohibited by state law. The hours of operation of wholesale licensees for the distribution of malt beverages and/or wine within the city shall be between the hours of 6:00 a.m. and 12:00 midnight. There shall be no malt beverages and/or wine sold or distributed within the city on Sundays, Christmas, or any other days prohibited by state law.
(b)
Notwithstanding the provisions of subsections (a) and (c) of this section, and any other provisions of this chapter or Code to the contrary, the package sale of malt beverages and wine by the holders of licenses for the package sale of both, but not one, of said beverages, shall be lawful and permitted on Sundays between the hours of 12:30 p.m. and 11:30 p.m.
(c)
Establishments having an on premise consumption license issued pursuant to section 6-36 of this chapter and realizing less than 50 percent of the business as measured by gross receipts, from the sale of food shall not permit the sale of alcohol after 2:30 a.m. on weekdays and Sundays or any time on Christmas Day or any other day on which the sale of alcoholic beverages is prohibited by state law. The premise shall be vacated by 3:00 a.m.
(Ord. No. 2012-07, § 2(Exh. A), 12-6-2012; Ord. No. 2013-01, § 1, 7-11-2013; Ord. No. 2020-05, § 1, 9-3-2020; Ord. No. 2021-1, § 1, 1-12-2021)
Sec. 6-122. - Hours during which other activities prohibited.
Neither any holder of any alcoholic beverage license nor any employee of any business in which such license is utilized shall allow or permit any alcoholic beverage to be handled in any manner upon the premises of the business in which such license is utilized or any alcoholic beverage to be located upon any table, counter, or other such customer service area upon such premises, either in the form of the original container therefor or otherwise, from one hour after the last time permitted to sell an alcoholic beverage as set forth in section 6-121 of this chapter until such time as alcoholic beverages may again be sold as set forth in section 6-121 of this chapter.
All premises licensed to engage in such sales by the drink may remain open for a period of time not to exceed 15 minutes beyond the time that the last alcoholic beverage can be lawfully located upon the table, counter or other customer service area of the licensed premises as set forth hereinabove at which time all customers and patrons must leave the licensed premises. Following such mandatory closing time, up to four employees of the business located upon the licensed premises may remain for up to an additional hour to handle all post-closing duties. If, because of special circumstances, additional time is needed by the employees for post-closing duties, the holder of the alcoholic beverage license at such licensed premises may contact the police for additional time for which permission shall not be unreasonably withheld.
(Ord. No. 2012-07, § 2(Exh. A), 12-6-2012)
Sec. 6-123. - Election days; sale of malt beverages and/or wine.
The sale of malt beverages and/or wine shall not be prohibited on election days.
(Ord. No. 2012-07, § 2(Exh. A), 12-6-2012)
Sec. 6-124. - Advertising.
No holder of any alcoholic beverage license shall allow or permit any advertising to be placed or run in any media or by any other means with respect to the availability of alcoholic beverages at the location licensed except to the extent permitted by state law and rules and regulations relative thereto.
(Ord. No. 2012-07, § 2(Exh. A), 12-6-2012)
Sec. 6-125. - Consumption prohibited upon premises of package licensee.
No holder of a license only for the package sales of any alcoholic beverage nor any employee, agent or servant of any business in which only a license for package sales is utilized shall knowingly allow or permit the breaking of any package containing any alcoholic beverage upon the premises where sold, or intentionally allow or permit the consumption of any of the contents of any package containing any alcoholic beverage upon the premises where sold.
(Ord. No. 2012-07, § 2(Exh. A), 12-6-2012)
Sec. 6-126. - Sales prohibited beyond premises.
No holder of any alcoholic beverage license or any employee, agent or servant of any business in which any alcoholic beverage license is utilized (herein collectively referred to as "licensee") shall sell or distribute any alcoholic beverage at any location other than within the interior of the building located upon premises so licensed in which such sales are authorized or upon the patio or deck (whether under roof or not) adjoining the licensed premises. The licensee shall not be authorized to sell or distribute any alcoholic beverage at any other location upon or within the licensed premises (hereinafter referred to as "open areas") including, but not limited to, the parking lot of such location unless any such open areas are set apart by a rope, fence or other similar access control mechanism that has been approved by the police department in the interest of public safety and the promotion of law enforcement; and, further provided that such licensee must continually supervise any and all such open areas to prevent non-customers from gaining access.
(Ord. No. 2012-07, § 2(Exh. A), 12-6-2012)
Sec. 6-127. - Furnishing alcoholic beverages to intoxicated person.
Notwithstanding any other provisions of this chapter, no person who is the holder of any alcoholic beverage license issued by the city nor any agent, servant or employee of any business in which any alcoholic beverage license is utilized shall sell, give, provide, distribute, or furnish any alcoholic beverage to any person who is then in an obvious state of intoxication.
(Ord. No. 2012-07, § 2(Exh. A), 12-6-2012)
Sec. 6-128. - Assisting other in violations.
No person who is the holder of any alcoholic beverage license issued by the city nor any agent, servant or employee of any business in which any alcoholic beverage license is utilized shall promote, encourage, or assist any other person in conducting or engaging in any activity or action which is in violation of any provision of this chapter.
(Ord. No. 2012-07, § 2(Exh. A), 12-6-2012)
Sec. 6-129. - Misrepresentation of beverages.
No person who is the holder of any alcoholic beverage license issued by the city, nor any agent, servant or employee of any business in which any alcoholic beverage license is utilized shall add to or otherwise adulterate the contents of a package or refill any empty package, or in any other manner misrepresent the quantity, quality or brand name of any alcoholic beverage.
(Ord. No. 2012-07, § 2(Exh. A), 12-6-2012)
Sec. 6-130. - Specific rules for consumption on premises.
(a)
Rules applicable to all alcoholic beverages. No person who is the holder of any alcoholic beverage license issued by the city or any agent, servant or employee of any business in which any alcoholic beverage license is utilized shall sell or distribute alcoholic beverages for consumption upon the premises under any of the following circumstances:
(1)
Serve multiple servings for a single price or offer all a person can drink for a set price;
(2)
Make a single price the basis for a required purchase of two or more servings;
(3)
Selling or furnishing alcoholic beverages at reduced prices based upon redemption or surrender of coupons, receipts, or other devices authorizing the serving of alcoholic beverage drinks on a subsequent day;
(4)
Require or encourage the purchase of a second or subsequent alcoholic beverage at the same time another alcoholic beverage is purchased or before the first such beverage is consumed;
(5)
Allow or permit any unconsumed alcoholic beverage sold for consumption on the premises to be removed from the licensed premises;
(6)
For purposes of this section, the term "special events days" shall mean those certain days generally recognized nationwide as festive or celebratory and specifically approved in advance in writing as such by the chief of police and set forth on a list made available to all holders of on premises consumption alcoholic beverage licenses. For purposes of this section, the term "normal retail price" shall mean the price charged during the majority of the business hours, excluding the hours of 4:00 p.m. to 8:00 p.m., of such business for that particular alcoholic beverage during the preceding seven-day period of time.
a.
Except for special events days, sell or furnish any alcoholic beverage prior to 4:00 p.m. or after 8:00 p.m. at a price less than the normal retail price of the business in which the associated alcoholic beverage license is utilized.
b.
Except for special events days, sell or furnish any alcoholic beverage between the hours of 4:00 p.m. and 8:00 p.m. for less than one-half of the normal retail price.
c.
On special events days only, alcoholic beverages may be sold or furnished at any time that the business and, as applicable to distilled spirits, the restaurant is open at any price set by the business so long as such price is not less than one-half of the normal retail price.
(7)
Nothing contained in this section shall be construed to prohibit the dispensing of malt beverages in pitchers or in jumbo sizes which are available at all times that the business in which the alcoholic beverage license is utilized is open for business at the usual, customary or established retail price therefor.
(b)
Rules applicable to distilled spirits. In addition to the rules set forth in subsection (a) of this section, these rules shall likewise apply to the on premises consumption of distilled spirits:
(1)
Sponsor, conduct, allow or permit contests or promotions which have as their primary purpose the increasing of the consumption of distilled spirits on the premises.
(2)
Sell or furnish distilled spirits at any time that the restaurant or private club to which such license is attached is closed.
(Ord. No. 2012-07, § 2(Exh. A), 12-6-2012)
Sec. 6-131. - Operation only by licensee or designated manager.
Notwithstanding any other provisions of this chapter, no holder of any alcoholic beverage license issued by the city shall permit or allow any business in which such license is utilized to be managed or operated for any period of time longer than 15 days by any person except to the extent otherwise specifically provided in this chapter who is not listed upon the initial application for such license, upon the most recent application for renewal thereof, on an amended application relative thereto which has been approved by the city council, or upon a then pending and unacted upon amended application relative thereto.
(Ord. No. 2012-07, § 2(Exh. A), 12-6-2012)
Sec. 6-132. - Display of license.
The holder of every alcoholic beverage license issued by the city shall post and prominently display in a conspicuous place upon the premises licensed all alcoholic beverages licenses by the city and by the state department of revenue.
(Ord. No. 2012-07, § 2(Exh. A), 12-6-2012)
Sec. 6-133. - Posting of laws regulating sales.
The holder of every alcoholic beverage license issued by the city shall post and prominently display in a conspicuous place upon the premises licensed all notices required by state law relative to the sale of alcoholic beverages as well as such other notice or notices relative to the sale of alcoholic beverages pursuant to license issued by the city as shall from time to time be prescribed by the city manager of such form, size and content as shall be prescribed by the city manager.
(Ord. No. 2012-07, § 2(Exh. A), 12-6-2012)
Sec. 6-134. - Obstruction of view of interior of premises and lighting of premises.
(a)
For the safety of law enforcement personnel and other public officials, every business in which an alcoholic beverage license is utilized shall provide a door, window or other opening through which the interior of the premises licensed for the sale of alcoholic beverages shall be visible from the exterior. Neither the holder of any alcoholic beverage license nor any agent, servant or employee of any business in which such alcoholic beverage license is utilized shall obstruct, block, or obscure the view through any door, window or other opening of the interior of the premises licensed for the sale of alcoholic beverages.
(b)
Both the exterior and interior of all premises licensed by the city for the sale of alcoholic beverages shall be so arranged as to afford an unobstructed view from the outside thereof of the interior portion of the premises which is utilized for the sale of alcoholic beverages.
(c)
The exterior of all premises licensed by the city for the sale of alcoholic beverages shall at all times be illuminated with sufficient light intensity so as to allow a complete view of all portions of the exterior thereof.
(d)
The exterior of all premises licensed by the city for the sale of alcoholic beverages shall at all times be illuminated with sufficient light intensity so as to allow a complete view of the interior of such premises which is utilized for the sale of alcoholic beverages by a person standing on the inside of the entrance of such premises.
(Ord. No. 2012-07, § 2(Exh. A), 12-6-2012)
Sec. 6-135. - Restrictions on compensation.
No holder of any alcoholic beverage license nor any agent, servant or employee of any business in which any such alcoholic beverage license is utilized shall permit or allow any agent, servant or employee of such business who is not the owner of an interest in such business to either directly or indirectly, receive or obtain in any manner any salary or other compensation of any nature whatsoever which is based solely upon the volume of alcoholic beverages sold upon such premises either by or as a result of the efforts of such agent, servant or employee individually or of such business generally or which is based solely upon the profit derived by such business from the sale of any alcoholic beverages.
(Ord. No. 2012-07, § 2(Exh. A), 12-6-2012)
Sec. 6-136. - Restrictions on premises rental fees.
It shall be unlawful for an alcoholic beverage license holder to enter into any agreement whereby the rental paid for the licensed premises is based in whole or in part upon the volume of alcoholic beverages sold upon such premises or based in whole or in part upon the profit derived by such business utilizing the alcoholic beverage license.
(Ord. No. 2012-07, § 2(Exh. A), 12-6-2012)
Sec. 6-137. - Restrictions upon activities of employees.
No holder of any alcoholic beverage license nor any agent, servant or employee of any business in which any alcoholic beverage license is utilized shall permit or allow any agent, servant or employee of such business or license holder upon the premises licensed during any period of time that such agent, servant or employee is acting for the benefit of or on behalf of such business or license or is otherwise in the employ of such business or licensee to:
(1)
Dance with any customer or patron of such business;
(2)
Dance upon any bar, counter or table; and
(3)
Consume any alcoholic beverage purchased by a customer or patron of such business.
(Ord. No. 2012-07, § 2(Exh. A), 12-6-2012)
Sec. 6-138. - Access of police officers and public officials.
No holder of any alcoholic beverage license nor any agent, servant or employee of any business in which any alcoholic beverage license is utilized shall at any time deny or prevent access to the licensed premises, or any portion thereof, to any police officer, to any state or federal or local law enforcement officer or to any local, state or federal building, zoning or fire inspector or official in connection with the conduct of such officer's, inspector's or official's duties or fail or obstruct any such officer, inspector or official in connection with the conduct of any investigation by any such officer, inspector or official with respect to the licensed premises or any activity or conduct upon the licensed premises involving alcoholic beverages.
(Ord. No. 2012-07, § 2(Exh. A), 12-6-2012)
Sec. 6-139. - Noise control.
The holder of any alcoholic beverage license shall not allow or permit any customer, patron or other person upon the licensed premises to make, continue or cause to be made any noise that can be heard beyond the property boundary of the licensed premises that unreasonably or unnecessarily annoys, disturbs, injures or endangers the comfort, repose, health, peace or safety of others in the city. Moreover, the holder of any alcoholic beverage license shall comply with the noise control provisions of chapter 38 [environment] of this Code.
(Ord. No. 2012-07, § 2(Exh. A), 12-6-2012)
Secs. 6-140—6-142. - Reserved.
DIVISION 2. - REGULATION OF EVENTS

Sec. 6-143. - Definitions.
As used in this division, the following terms shall have the meaning (the singular includes the plural), and shall be subject to the following rules, regulations, and provisions:
Event means any gathering of two or more persons on real property located within the corporate limits of the City of Ashburn for the purpose of attending a public event or private event, as hereinafter defined.
Public event means any gathering of two or more persons on real property located within the corporate limits of the City of Ashburn pursuant to an arrangement by the owner of the property, or pursuant to a rental of the premises from the owner, to which the public in general is invited.
Private event means any gathering of two or more persons on real property located within the corporate limits of the City of Ashburn pursuant to an arrangement by the owner of the property, or pursuant to a rental of the premises from the owner, which may be attended by invitation only.
Sponsor means the person or persons conducting the event, whether the owner of the premises or person or persons renting the premises for the purpose of conducting the event.
Participant means the person or persons attending the event.
(Ord. No. 2022-4, § 1, 10-6-2022)
Sec. 6-144. - Public event.
At public events, admission fees or other forms of compensation may or may not be charged. If admission fees or other compensation is charged, either directly or indirectly, alcohol beverages may not be sold, dispensed, furnished free, or consumed on the premises without the sponsor or sponsors having first obtained all applicable alcohol beverage licenses.
Alcohol beverages may be furnished free, sold, and/or consumed at all such public events, provided the appropriate alcohol beverage licenses are obtained.
The solicitation of voluntary contributions at public events to help defray the cost of the event shall be permitted, and voluntary contributions received pursuant to such solicitation or otherwise shall not be construed to be admission fees.
The sponsor of all such public events shall provide one or more POST certified police officers if the event is attended by 25 or more persons.
(Ord. No. 2022-4, § 2, 10-6-2022)
Sec. 6-145. - Private event.
Admission fees or other forms of compensation may or may not be charged. If no admission fees or other compensation for admission to the event is charged or paid, alcohol beverages maybe dispensed without additional charge and consumed on the premises. If admission fees or other compensation is charged, either directly or indirectly, alcohol beverages may not be sold, dispensed, furnished free, or consumed on the premises without the sponsor or sponsors having first obtained all applicable alcohol beverage licenses.
Alcohol beverages may be furnished free, sold, and/or consumed at all such private events, provided the appropriate alcohol beverage licenses are obtained.
(Ord. No. 2022-4, § 3, 10-6-2022)
Sec. 6-146. - Real property; restrictions.
No owner of real property within the corporate limits of the city shall hold a public event on the property, or rent or lease the property to any person for the purpose of holding a public or private event thereon, or otherwise permit or allow a public event to be held on the property, until such owner shall have obtained an annual business license authorizing the holding of events on the property and/or the leasing and renting of property for such purpose, and shall have paid a license fee and a regulatory fee as hereafter provided. Nothing contained herein shall be construed to regulate the conduct of private events, expect for the extent that property owners who rent or lease the property for this purpose.
(Ord. No. 2022-4, § 4, 10-6-2022)
Sec. 6-147. - License application.
The application for the license referred to in the preceding section shall be made to the city on forms prepared by the chief of police, and among other things, shall specify the name and address of the license holder and the location and street address of the premises to be licensed.
(Ord. No. 2022-4, § 5, 10-6-2022)
Sec. 6-148. - License fee.
At the time of the filing of the application for license, the applicant shall pay a license fee of $75.00, together with a regulatory fee of $100.00 pursuant to O.C.G.A. § 48-13-9. No license shall be granted without the license and regulatory fees having first been paid. The license fee and regulatory fee shall be for one calendar year, or for the balance of the calendar year, and the license shall expire unless the license is renewed and the license and regulatory fees for the new year are paid on or before 5:00 p.m. on the last day of January; provided, however, that no event shall be held on the premises until the fees are paid and the license issued for the current year.
(Ord. No. 2022-4, § 6, 10-6-2022)
Sec. 6-149. - Real property; exceptions.
No public event shall be held on real property within the corporate limits of the city unless at least 14 days prior thereto written notice of intent to hold the public event shall have been given to the chief of police of the city, which notice shall state the name or names, identities, and addresses of the sponsors of the public event, the date upon which and the hours during which the public event is proposed to be held, and shall describe the activity or activities to be conducted at the public event.
(Ord. No. 2022-4, § 7, 10-6-2022)
Sec. 6-150. - License restrictions.
No license shall be issued pursuant to the provisions of section 6-146 of this Code, and no public event shall be permitted on premises:
(1)
Which are within 150 feet of any public or private school or church, measured from the nearest points of the nearest buildings on the properties.
(2)
Which are licensed to operate pursuant to the Adult Entertainment Establishment ordinance of the city, chapter 10, article II of this Code.
(Ord. No. 2022-4, § 8, 10-6-2022)
Sec. 6-151. - Special alcoholic beverage license.
Unless the sponsor shall file, with the notice required by section 6-152 of this Code, an affidavit that no alcoholic beverages of any kind are to be sold, provided, or permitted to be consumed on the premises during the duration of the public event, the sponsor shall obtain a special alcoholic beverage license to continue only for the duration of the public event, and shall pay to the city at the time of the application a special alcoholic beverage license fee of $75.00.
All applications for the special alcoholic beverage license referred to herein shall meet the criteria set forth in chapter 6 of this Code, entitled "Alcoholic Beverages", and the criteria for considering and issuing or denying such license set forth in said chapter shall apply to the consideration and issuance or denial of the special license.
Notwithstanding any provision to the contrary in this Code, or elsewhere, such special alcoholic beverage license shall permit brown bagging and the furnishing, sale and/or consumption of beer and wine for consumption on the premises during the course of the event.
Unless the special alcoholic beverage license provided by this section is obtained, the sale, provision, possession, or consumption of alcoholic beverages on the premises shall not be permitted, and shall be an offense punishable under the general alcoholic beverage ordinances of the city and the state, shall additionally be an offense punishable as provided in section 6-156 of this Code, and shall be grounds for revocation of the annual license issued to the owner of the property pursuant to section 6-146 of this Code.
(Ord. No. 2022-4, § 9, 10-6-2022)
Sec. 6-152. - Police supervision.
The sponsor shall at sponsor's expense provide a POST certified police officer who shall attend the public event for its entire duration. It shall be the duty of the police officer to see that the public event is conducted in compliance with all applicable laws and regulations, including, without limitation, the ordinances of the city, and in an orderly and peaceful manner consistent with the health, safety, and welfare of the city.
(Ord. No. 2022-4, § 10, 10-6-2022)
Sec. 6-153. - Sponsor responsibilities.
It shall be the duty, responsibility, and obligation of the sponsor to see that the public event is at all times conducted in a lawful, orderly and peaceful manner, and so as not to disturb the community with loud noises or activities which are unlawful or which disturb the peace and quiet of the community. The sponsor shall have the duty to see that there are no violations of the gambling or alcoholic beverage laws or other laws of the state and city.
(Ord. No. 2022-4, § 11, 10-6-2022)
Sec. 6-154. - Adult entertainment restrictions.
No activity or conduct shall be permitted on the premises during the course of the public event which would require the premises to be licensed under the Adult Entertainment Establishment Ordinance, chapter 10, article II of this Code. The violation of this provision shall constitute an offense for which the sponsor and the persons violating this provision shall be punished under section 6-156 of this Code, and shall be a ground for revocation of the license issued to the owner pursuant to section 6-144 of this Code.
(Ord. No. 2022-4, § 12, 10-6-2022)
Sec. 6-155. - Peace and order.
Any sponsor who shall conduct a public event who shall fail to maintain peace and order at the public event, or who shall permit the violation of the gambling laws, or the provision and/or the consumption on the premises of alcoholic beverages without obtaining the required alcoholic beverage license and paying the license fee therefore, or who shall fail to comply with any of the provisions of this Code or any other laws of the state or ordinances of the city, shall be guilty of an offense punishable as provided in section 6-156 of this Code.
(Ord. No. 2022-4, § 13, 10-6-2022)
Sec. 6-156. - Penalties; revocation of license.
In addition to the penalty provisions of this division, the annual license issued to the property owner pursuant to this division may be revoked by the city for any violation of this division or any violations of the ordinances of the city and/or state or federal laws. The license shall be revoked by written notice from the city specifying the ground or grounds for revocation, and served upon the license holder personally or delivered to his residence of record. The license holder shall have the right to appeal the revocation to the mayor and council of the city by filing written notice of appeal with the city clerk on or before 5:00 p.m. of the third day thereafter. The appeal shall be held before the mayor and the entire council, or a quorum thereof, with ten days after filing of the notice.
(Ord. No. 2022-4, § 14, 10-6-2022)
