ARTICLE IV. - FINANCE[4]
Footnotes:
--- (4) ---
Editor's note— The city has compiled and published separately its purchasing policies and procedures, copies of which are on file in the office of the city clerk.
Cross reference— Any ordinance or resolution promising or guaranteeing the payment of money for the city or authorizing the issuance of any bonds of the city or any evidence of the city's indebtedness saved from repeal, § 1-11(2); any contract or obligation assumed by the city saved from repeal, § 1-11(3); any ordinance providing for local improvements and assessing taxes for such improvements saved from repeal, § 1-11(9); any ordinance levying or imposing taxes not included in this Code saved from repeal, § 1-11(14).
State Law reference— Discretion of governing body as to management and disposition of property, O.C.G.A. § 36-30-2; acquisition, sale and lease by municipality of real and personal property, O.C.G.A. § 36-37-1 et seq.; disposition of municipal property generally, O.C.G.A. § 36-37-6; grants of state funds to municipalities, O.C.G.A. § 36-40-1 et seq.; multiyear lease, purchase or lease purchase contracts, O.C.G.A. § 36-60-13; local government budgets and audits, O.C.G.A. § 36-81-1 et seq.; establishment of fiscal year required, O.C.G.A. § 36-81-3; appointment of budget officer, O.C.G.A. § 36-81-4; preparation of proposed budget, O.C.G.A. § 36-81-5; adoption of budget ordinance, O.C.G.A. § 36-81-6; accounting for public funds, O.C.G.A. § 45-8-1 et seq.; purchases through state, O.C.G.A. § 50-5-100 et seq.; power of expenditure, Ga. Const. art. IX, § IV, ¶ II.

DIVISION 1. - GENERALLY

Sec. 2-111. - Fiscal year.
The city's fiscal year shall commence on July 1 and conclude on June 30 of the following year.
State Law reference— Establishment of fiscal year required, O.C.G.A. § 36-81-3.
Secs. 2-112—2-130. - Reserved.
DIVISION 2. - BUDGET

Sec. 2-131. - Budget—Procedures for adoption.
The municipal budget shall be introduced, approved, amended, and adopted by ordinance passed by not less than a majority of the full membership of the city council. The procedure shall be as follows:
(1)
Introduction. On the date established by the city, the proposed budget shall be submitted to the city council for review prior to enactment of the budget ordinance.
(2)
Public examination. On the date that the proposed budget is submitted to the city council for consideration, a copy of the budget shall be placed in city hall during reasonable business hours in order to afford the public every opportunity to review the budget prior to adoption by the council.
(3)
Public advertisement. A statement advising the residents of the city of the availability of the proposed budget shall be published in a newspaper of general circulation within the city. The notice shall be published during the week in which the proposed budget is submitted to the governing authority. In addition, the statement shall also advise the residents that a public hearing will be held at which time any person wishing to be heard on the budget may appear. The hearing shall be conducted at least one week prior to the meeting at which the budget is to be adopted. The city shall give notice of the time and place of the hearing. The notice required by this paragraph may be included in the statement published pursuant to this paragraph.
(4)
Adoption. The municipal budget shall be adopted prior to the beginning of each fiscal year. Upon adoption, the budget shall constitute an appropriation for the purposes stated therein and an authorization of the amount to be raised by taxation for the purposes of the city.
State Law reference— O.C.G.A. §§ 36-81-5 and 36-81-6.
Sec. 2-132. - Same—Message.
When introduced to the city council for approval, the municipal budget shall be accompanied by a budget message which shall explain the budget both in fiscal terms and in terms of the work programs. The budget message shall outline the proposed financial policies of the city for the ensuing fiscal year, describe the important features of the budget, indicate any major changes from the current year in financial policies, expenditures, and revenues together with the reasons for each change, summarize the city's debt position, and include such other materials as will provide a complete synopsis of the financial condition of the city.
Sec. 2-133. - Same—Form and content.
(a)
The municipal budget shall be prefaced by a clear general summary of its contents and shall show in detail all estimated income, indicating the proposed property tax levy, and all proposed expenditures for the ensuing fiscal year. It shall be so arranged as to show comparative figures for actual and estimated income and expenditures of the current fiscal year and actual income and expenditures of the preceding fiscal year. Separate items shall be included for at least the following:
(1)
Administration, operation, and maintenance expenses of each department or office of the city, including a breakdown for salaries and wages for each such units;
(2)
Interest and debt redemption charges;
(3)
Proposed capital expenditures, detailed by departments and offices when practicable;
(4)
Cash deficits of the preceding year;
(5)
Contingent expenses in an amount not more than three percent of the total amount for administration, operation, and maintenance expenses;
(6)
Such reserves as may be deemed advisable by the City Council.
(b)
The total of proposed expenditures shall not exceed the total of anticipated revenue.
Sec. 2-134. - Capital program.
(a)
A five-year capital program may be submitted to the city council at the same time that the budget and budget message are introduced for approval. Such capital program shall include:
(1)
A clear general summary of its contents;
(2)
A list of all capital improvements which are proposed to be undertaken for the five fiscal years next ensuing, with appropriate supporting information as to the necessity for such improvements;
(3)
Cost estimates, method of financing and recommended time schedules for each such improvement; and
(4)
The estimated annual cost of operating and maintaining the facilities to be constructed or acquired.
(b)
The above information may be revised and extended each year with regard to capital improvements still pending or in process of construction or acquisition.
Sec. 2-135. - Emergency appropriations.
The city council may make emergency appropriations after the adoption of a budget for a purpose which was not foreseen at the time of the adoption thereof, or for which adequate provision was not made therein. Such an appropriation shall be made only to meet a public emergency affecting life, health, safety, property, or the public peace, and shall be made only out of actual unappropriated revenues.
Sec. 2-136. - Transfer of appropriations.
The mayor may at any time during the fiscal year transfer part or all of any unencumbered appropriation balance among programs within a department or office, and the city council may by ordinance transfer part or all of any unencumbered appropriation balance from one department or office to another, except that no appropriation for debt service or capital improvements may be reduced or transferred during any fiscal year.
Sec. 2-137. - Lapse of appropriations.
Every appropriation, except an appropriation for a capital expenditure, shall lapse at the close of the fiscal year to the extent that it has not been expended or encumbered. An appropriation for a capital expenditure shall continue in force until the purpose for which it was made has been accomplished or abandoned; the purpose of any such appropriation shall be deemed abandoned if three years pass without any disbursement from or encumbrance of the appropriation.
Sec. 2-138. - Publication of financial statement.
Within six months after the close of the fiscal year, a statement of revenues and expenditures that fairly represents the financial condition of the city and that shows all municipal accounts as of the close of such preceding fiscal year shall be published in a newspaper of general circulation in the municipality.
Sec. 2-139. - Disposition of stolen, abandoned, or impounded property.
(a)
All personal property which comes into the custody of the police department, where such property has been stolen or impounded or where the ownership is unknown shall be held for a period of 30 days awaiting claim by its owner. The owner of such property, upon proving ownership and paying all expenses and costs, including reasonable charges for storage, shall have the right to have such property returned to such person.
(b)
If after the expiration of 30 days the property is unclaimed, the chief of police shall advertise the property for sale in the newspaper in which the city's legal advertisements are printed. Such advertising shall take place at least 30 days before the date set for the sale and shall give a description of the property to be sold and specify the time and place of sale. If the property is still unclaimed by the time for the sale, it shall be sold as advertised, and the proceeds shall be placed in the city treasury.
Sec. 2-140. - Definition.
For the purposes of this article, any emergency is defined as being a situation where immediate action is absolutely necessary and delay would adversely affect the life, health, or safety of the citizens or the property of the city.
(Ord. No. 15-07, § 1(Exh. A), 8-6-2016)
Sec. 2-141. - General restriction.
(a)
No officer or employee of the city shall purchase for or on behalf of the city or his/her office any materials, supplies, goods, wares, merchandise, or equipment of any kind or character except through the approval of the city council or as provided in section 2-142. No voucher check or other method of payment shall be honored if this method is not followed.
(b)
It shall be considered a breach of duty on the part of any officer or employee of the city to make any purchase or aid and abet the making of any purchase by any other manner than through the city council or as provided in section 2-142.
(c)
It shall be considered a breach of duty on the part of any officer of the city to make any purchase or donation or to aid and abet the making of any purchase or donation that exceeds the allotted amount set forth in the budget, except as provided for emergency purchases.
(Ord. No. 15-07, § 1(Exh. A), 8-6-2016)
Sec. 2-142. - Authority of city manager.
(a)
The City Manager of the City of Ashburn shall be authorized to spend up to $10,000.00 for any materials, supplies, goods, wares, merchandise, services or equipment without approval from the city council provided the same is a budgeted item. Any purchases over $10,000.00 shall require the approval of the city council except in an emergency situation as herein after provided.
(b)
The city manager shall not make a purchase under this article that exceeds the amount budgeted unless the purchase is for an emergency. If a purchase or expenditure must be made that will exceed the budget amount, the city manager shall request the city council to amend the budget to cover such expenditure. No purchase order may be released or liability incurred prior to the approval of the amended budget by the city council.
(Ord. No. 15-07, § 1(Exh. A), 8-6-2016)
Sec. 2-143. - Penalty for violation.
Any officer or employee of the city who spends or creates financial liability beyond the budgeted amount on behalf of the city shall be in violation and will be personally liable for the expenditure or liability beyond the budgeted amount. Furthermore, a violation of any provision of this article shall be determined a violation of the city personnel policy and shall be deemed sufficient grounds for discharge.
(Ord. No. 15-07, § 1(Exh. A), 8-6-2016)
Sec. 2-144. - Handling of invoices.
All invoices shall be turned in on a daily basis and shall be attached to the purchase orders. All such invoices shall be submitted to the city clerk or to his/her designated agent.
(Ord. No. 15-07, § 1(Exh. A), 8-6-2016)
Sec. 2-145. - Purchase orders required.
(a)
No officer or employee of the city shall request any merchant, dealer, or other vendor to deliver goods to the city or any department or officer or employee thereof, except on a regular purchase order approved by the city council or city manager.
(b)
Any purchases made without obtaining a purchase order in advance shall be disallowed and payment refused. No purchase order will be issued after the fact. Vendors, merchants, and dealers will be deemed to have dealt with any employee or officer who does not have a purchase order at their own risk.
(Ord. No. 15-07, § 1(Exh. A), 8-6-2016)
Sec. 2-146. - Emergency purchases.
In all cases where there is an immediate need for any materials, supplies, goods, wares, or merchandise by any department, such department must advise the city manager, and if he/she cannot be located, the officer or employee must immediately notify the mayor. In the event that neither of the above individuals can be reached and an emergency purchase of the item is absolutely necessary, such purchase must be reported to the city manager within 24 hours of such purchase.
(Ord. No. 15-07, § 1(Exh. A), 8-6-2016)
Sec. 2-147. - Discretion on purchases.
In all purchases where quality, as well as price and service, is involved, the city manager shall exercise discretion in making the purchase. In all cases where patented items or special purpose items are requested, the city manager has the discretionary authority to decide whether similar products of equal quality and at a lower price shall be ordered in lieu of items requested.
(Ord. No. 15-07, § 1(Exh. A), 8-6-2016)
Sec. 2-148. - Purchasing and procurement.
(a)
Purchases and procurement of supplies, fixed assets, and services, shall be classified as follows:
(1)
Purchases which total less than $500.00 in the aggregate annually.
(2)
Purchases which total less than $3,000.00 in the aggregate annually.
(3)
Purchases which total less than $10,000.00 in the aggregate annually.
(4)
Purchases which total more than $25,000.00 in the aggregate annually.
(b)
Purchases totaling less than $500.00. Purchases totaling less than $500.00 may be authorized by the city manager when he/she has reasonable assurances that the price to be paid is fair and equitable and further quotes will not provide a reasonable savings. Consideration shall be given to costs of personnel time, delivery, etc. when making such decisions and when such items do not exceed the aggregate total in the approved annual budget.
(c)
Purchases totaling more than $500.00 but less than $2,500.00. Purchases totaling more than $500.00 but less than $2,500.00 may be authorized by the city manager following documentation of evidence the purchase has been properly researched to find the best price for a competitive price and evidence that the purchase is being conducted reasonably and fairly. Telephone quotes may be sufficient documentation if supporting catalogs, flyers or other written materials are available. Quotes may also be faxed from local suppliers or some purchases may require written specification sheets and a formal quote to be adequate documentation. Other cases may require written specification sheets and quote for an adequate response.
(d)
Purchases totaling more than $2,500.00 but less than $10,000.00. Purchases totaling more than $2,500.00 but less than $10,000.00 shall require a minimum of three written quotes in response to requests submitted to qualified suppliers. Quotes from all qualified suppliers in the region should be requested when possible. The city must be able to document fairness and equity in purchases and all items purchased by the city shall not exceed the aggregate total allotted in the approved annual budget.
(e)
Purchases of more than $10,000.00. Purchases of more than $10,000.00 shall require a minimum of three formal proposals, in response to detailed specifications prepared by the City of Ashburn. No purchase shall be made without the documentation of three formal proposals or comprehensive documentation of the fact that only one or two suppliers chose to respond to the request. In such cases where fewer than three formal proposals are received, the city manager should contact other local government organizations who have engaged in similar projects to determine if the proposals received are reasonable and valid.
(f)
Purchases of more than $25,000.00. Purchases of more than $25,000.00 shall require a formal bidding process determined by the city manager and approved by the City Council of Ashburn. The process shall include at a minimum: the formal advertisement of specifications being available, formal requests of known suppliers of goods or services required, stringent published deadlines for submittal, published public meeting for the opening of proposals, documentation of references for firms, and acceptance of a proposal with no substitutions.
(g)
Purchases which can be made through the state contract shall be assumed to be in compliance with the above guidelines and may not require any further proposals. Discretion shall be used by the city manager in the decision to utilize state contract as the procurement source for the city, making certain a good or service may not be purchased from a lower cost responsible bidder.
(h)
Splitting a purchase to avoid the procurement guidelines is strictly prohibited and a cause for action against an employee under the personnel policies. Changes to contracts or purchase orders should be subjected to the same controls and approvals as the original agreement. Claims shall be made by the city against vendors regarding documented shortages, or substitutions of lesser quality.
(Ord. No. 15-07, § 1(Exh. A), 8-6-2016)
Secs. 2-149—2-160. - Reserved.
DIVISION 3. - MUNICIPAL BONDS[5]

Footnotes:
--- (5) ---
State Law reference— General procedures and requirements for local bonded debts, O.C.G.A. § 36-82-1; O.C.G.A. § 36-38-1.

Sec. 2-161. - Adoption of state rules and regulations.
The rules, regulations, and provisions contained in O.C.G.A. Chapters 36—38 and 36—82 relating to debts of municipalities, counties, and other political subdivisions are hereby adopted as the rules, regulations, and provisions governing the issuance of general obligation and revenue bonds by this city.
Sec. 2-162. - Preliminary review by finance committee.
Prior to any issue of bonds by the city, the proposal for such issue shall be referred to the standing finance committee which committee shall give careful consideration to the proposal and submit a recommendation to the city council for approval of disapproval, with applicable reasons therefor.
Sec. 2-163. - Records to be kept.
A complete description of each bond issued by the city shall be kept by the city clerk in a suitable book, which book shall be open to public inspection.
Sec. 2-164. - Registration—Application for registration.
Any holder of a bond issued by the city may register such bond as to principal and interest or as to principal only by making written application for such registration to the city clerk and presenting the bond desired to be registered. Each application shall state: (1) the number of bonds presented, (2) of what issue, (3) the date, (4) the amount, (5) when due, and (6) to what extent the bonds are to be registered. Each application shall be signed by the applicant who, if holding the bonds in any capacity other than for such person's self, shall sign the application in the name of the property for whose benefit such person holds the bonds, state the capacity in which such person signs, and attach proof of such capacity.
Sec. 2-165. - Same—Bond register.
A bond register shall be kept on file in the office of the city clerk in which, upon written application and presentation of the bond by the holder thereof as hereinabove provided, shall be entered a description of each bond so presented, which description shall state: (1) the bond number, (2) the nature of the issue, (3) the face amount, (4) the date issued, (5) the date of maturity, (6) the rate and due dates of interest, (7) whether the bond is registered as to principal and interest or as to principal only, (8) the name and mailing address of the bond holder, (9) the name of the person registering the bond, and (10) the capacity in which such person registered the bond. All bonds registered in compliance with this section shall be nonnegotiable to the extent registered.
Sec. 2-166. - Same—Statement of registration and form.
Upon registration of any bonds as hereinabove provided, the city clerk shall stamp, print, or write upon each bond so registered a statement of the registration in substantially the following form, inserting in the blanks the matter applicable to each transaction: "Registered by ___________. Nonnegotiable. Principal [and interest] to be paid only to _______ located at _______ or to such person's legal representative located at _______. This _______ day of _______, 20_______.
City of Ashburn
EXPAND
      City Clerk
    Sec. 2-167. - Same—Procedure for transfer after registration.
In order to transfer any bond which may have been registered under the provisions hereof, the holder thereof shall present the same to the city clerk and shall authorize such transfer, in writing, giving the name of the transferee, the number of the bond, of what issue, and the dates of issue and maturity. Such authority shall be signed and acknowledged in the presence of a notary public or some other officer authorized by law to administer oaths, and such notary public or other officer shall certify, in writing and under seal of the office, that such authority was signed and acknowledged in such officer's presence. In addition to giving such written authority, the holder shall enter a statement of the transfer on the face of each bond, properly dated, and signed. Thereupon the city clerk shall enter the transfer of each bond opposite the original entry of registration in the bond register, giving the name of the transferee and date of the transfer, and shall enter the same on each bond over such person's official signature. The transferee may thereafter, in the manner herein prescribed, also transfer such bond.
Sec. 2-168. - Disposition of bonds and coupons.
Whenever the city clerk pays any bond or coupon of the city, such clerk shall forthwith stamp, print, or write upon such bond or coupon the word "PAID" and shall notify the standing finance committee that such clerk has in hand such canceled paper, whereupon the finance committee shall take possession of the same after giving the clerk a receipt for the bonds and coupons. Such bonds and coupons shall thereafter be destroyed by the finance committee in the presence of the city clerk, who shall then make an entry to that effect on the receipt given to such clerk.
Sec. 2-169. - Sinking fund—Establishment.
All taxes collected for the payment of principal and interest on city general obligation bonds shall be kept by the city treasurer as a separate fund to be known as the "sinking fund." Under no circumstances shall such fund be paid out by the city treasurer for any other purpose than for the payment of the interest and principal on the bonds for which it was collected or for the purpose of investment as provided by law and city ordinance.
Sec. 2-170. - Same—Certification of amount.
Prior to adoption of the annual budget, the amount to be included in the sinking fund for the prospective fiscal year shall be certified by the municipal auditor as an amount sufficient to pay all principal and interest coming due in such fiscal year, and the sinking fund as certified shall be included in the annual budget.
Sec. 2-171. - Same—Investment.
It shall be the duty of the city treasurer promptly to make arrangements for the investment of the sinking fund in the manner provided by law and, upon approval of such arrangements by the city council, promptly to make such investment.
DIVISION 4. - PURCHASING CARDS

Sec. 2-172. - Credit card and purchasing card policy.
The city has adopted a policy regarding government credit card or/and purchasing card usage. Any employee or official who uses or possesses a government credit card should abide by the terms of this policy when using the government credit card for purchases.
CREDIT CARD AND PURCHASING CARD POLICY
A.
Purpose. The purpose of this policy is to set requirements and standards for the City of Ashburn's Government Credit Card and/or Purchasing Card. The policy is not intended to replace current State of Georgia statutes but is intended to comply with such state laws and establish more efficient guidelines for elected officials using such purchasing cards. At no time should a city issued purchasing card or credit card be used for personal purchases regardless of the circumstances. Utilizing the purchasing card or credit card for personal use or for any item or service not directly related to such official's public duty may result in disciplinary action including, but not limited to, felony criminal prosecution. All purchases made utilizing a government purchasing card or government credit card must be in accordance with these guidelines and with state law.
B.
Scope. This purchasing card policy, as required by state law under O.C.G.A. § 36-80-24(c), applies to the use of government purchasing cards or government credit cards used by authorized elected officials and employees. The below list of officials have been authorized by the government authority of the City to use such government purchasing cards or government credit cards and must abide by all of the applicable state laws and this purchasing card policy.
1.
Mayor
2.
Clerk
3.
City Manager
4.
Police Chief
5.
Fire Chief
6.
Head of Public Works Department
7.
Heads of Utility Departments
8.
Council Members
C.
Public Inspection. In accordance with O.C.G.A. § 36-80-24(b) any documents or other records related to purchases made using government purchasing cards or government credit cards incurred by elected officials shall be available for public inspection.
D.
Transaction Limits. Transaction limits are hereby established to insure compliance with state purchasing laws, maintain proper budgetary controls, and to minimize excessive use of any individual credit line. Individual monthly card limits cannot exceed those established by the municipal governing authority. The established single transaction limit for each card must be less than $2,000.00. The established monthly card limit is based upon the city's budgetary constraints and is not to exceed $10,000 per month. Any exceptions to the standardized limits must have express written approval by the municipal governing authority and must be added to this policy by amendment or addendum.
E.
Purchasing Restrictions.
1.
Elected Officials may not use a government purchasing card or government credit card for the following:
a.
Any purchases of items for personal use.
b.
Cash refunds or advances.
c.
Any transaction amount greater than the transaction limits set for by this policy.
d.
Items specifically restricted by this policy, unless a special exemption is granted by the municipal governing authority.
e.
Alcohol or liquor of any kind. Such purchases should not be made with the purchasing card and may not be reimbursed by the City.
f.
Purchases or transactions made with the intent to circumvent the City purchasing policy, transactional limits, or state law.
g.
Food, fuel or non-alcoholic beverages. Such purchases should not be made with the purchasing card and may not be reimbursed by the City.
2.
Elected Officials may use government purchasing cards or government credit cards to purchase goods and/or services not prohibited by this policy or state law. Such purchases include, but are not limited to:
a.
Purchases of items for official city use which fall within the transactional restrictions of this policy.
b.
Purchase of lodging, education and training materials while on city business.
c.
Emergency purchases necessary to protect city property.
Notwithstanding the above, the City prefers payment of expenses by check.
F.
Training and Travel Expenses.
1.
Officials may use the City card to pay transportation costs for to and from training approved by the Mayor and Council. This includes but is not limited to any airline reservations, gas purchases, taxi fees, baggage handling fees, and parking fees.
2.
Lodging. The credit card may also be used to pay reasonable lodging accommodations while on official travel. Copies of hotel or motel receipts shall be returned to the City.
3.
Meals. The City card may be used to purchase meals while on official travel at a maximum rate of up to of $150.00 per day for all meals. At no time should the City card be used for the purchase of alcohol.
G.
Administrator. The City designates the City Clerk as the program administrator of government purchasing cards or government credit cards. Such administrator shall:
1.
Serve as a liaison between the city's cardholders and the issuers of such cards.
2.
Maintain the cardholder agreement for all cardholders.
3.
Provide instruction, training, and assistance to cardholders.
4.
Maintain account information and secure all cardholder information.
5.
Keep cardholders up-to-date on new or changing information.
6.
Upon receipt of information indicating fraudulent use or lost/stolen cards immediately report it to appropriate parties, including the issuer.
7.
Ensure all card accounts are being utilized properly as set forth by state law and this policy.
8.
Define the city's policy and procedures for proper documentation and storage of receipts, logs, and approvals required under this policy.
9.
Identify any changes to named persons authorized to use a government purchasing card or government credit card.
10.
Any other duties assigned by the municipal governing authority.
H.
Accounting and Auditing. The Administrator, in an effort to ensure compliance with City policy and state law, will conduct quarterly reviews and audits of all government purchasing card or government credit card transactions. The review is designed to ensure compliance, identify non-compliance issues and misuse, and through corrective measures, assist the city with improving compliance. The quarterly review and audit should happen within 30 (thirty) days of the start of a new quarter. After completing the quarterly audit the Administrator shall notify cardholders of any violations or questions the Administrator has relating to spending within that quarter. Depending on the severity of the violation, the Administrator may suspend or revoke the use of the government purchasing card or government credit card after notification to the cardholder and to the municipal governing authority, but only after consultation with the City attorney. Any unresolved violations should be reported of the municipal governing authority and the City attorney in writing within 10 (ten) business days.
I.
Violations. The use of a government purchasing card or government credit card may be suspended or revoked when the Administrator, after consultation with the city attorney, determines that the cardholder has violated the approved policies or state law regarding the use of the government purchasing card or government credit card. The government purchasing card or government credit card shall be revoked whenever a cardholder is removed from office with the City and shall be suspended if such elected official has been suspended from office.
Misuse of a government purchasing card or government credit card may result in the loss of employment or referral to appropriate law enforcement officers.
J.
Agreement. Before being issued a government purchasing card or government credit card under this policy and state law, all authorized users of government purchasing cards, or government credit cards shall sign and accept below indicating that such user will use such cards only in accordance with the polices of the City and with the requirements of state law.
The City has adopted a policy regarding government credit card or/and purchasing usage. Any employee of official who uses or possesses a government credit card should abide by the terms of this policy when using the government credit card for purchases.
EXPAND
_____
Name Printed _____
Signature
Title: _____
Date: _____
  (Ord. No. 2015-11, § 1, 12-3-2015)
Secs. 2-173—2-200. - Reserved.
