ARTICLE V. - COMMISSIONS AND COMMITTEES
DIVISION 1. - GENERALLY

Secs. 2-201—2-230. - Reserved.
DIVISION 2. - ASHBURN COMMUNITY RELATIONS COMMISSION[6]

Footnotes:
--- (6) ---
Editor's note— Ord. No. 05-01, §§ 1—5, adopted March 3, 2005, did not specifically amend this Code. Hence, inclusion of said ordinance provisions as §§ 2-231—2-235 was at the discretion of the editor.

Sec. 2-231. - [Commission established.]
There is hereby established in and for the City of Ashburn the Ashburn Community Relations Commission to be composed of seven members who shall be residents of the City of Ashburn and registered voters of the City of Ashburn, one of whom shall be appointed by each of the five Council members and two of whom shall be appointed by the Mayor of the City of Ashburn. Emphasis in the selection of commission members shall be upon obtaining a group diverse with respect to race, religion, economic status, type of employment, age, national origin, sex, geographic location, and political party affiliation. The five members appointed by the council members shall be appointed to initial terms of two years each and until their successors are appointed and qualified, and the two members appointed by the mayor shall be appointed for initial terms of one year each and until their successors are appointed and qualified. After initial appointments have been served, terms shall be two years each in duration and until their successors are appointed and qualified.
(Ord. No. 05-01, § 1, 3-3-2005)
Sec. 2-232. - [Chairman; appointment.]
The Chairman of the Ashburn Community Relations Commission shall be appointed by the mayor annually from the members of the community relations commission, said chairman to serve for one calendar year or until his or her successor has been appointed and qualified. The Ashburn Community Relations Commission shall appoint such additional officers as it shall deem appropriate and necessary.
(Ord. No. 05-01, § 2, 3-3-2005)
Sec. 2-233. - [Duties, powers, functions.]
The Ashburn Community Relations Commission shall have the following duties, powers, and functions:
(1)
To encourage, promote, and develop fair and equal treatment and opportunity for all persons regardless of race, color, creed, sex, or national origin;
(2)
To coordinate and assist local governmental agencies on human relations in their efforts to promote better relations;
(3)
To cooperate with community, professional, civic, and religious organizations and federal, state, county, and municipal agencies in the development of public information programs, leadership, and activities in the interest of equal opportunity and treatment of all racial, religious, and ethnic groups;
(4)
To conduct research projects and studies and to make reports on race relations in the city;
(5)
To annually and periodically report to the mayor and city council of the city on the activities of the Ashburn Community Relations Commission;
(6)
To adopt such rules and regulations as are necessary to govern the proceedings of the Ashburn Community Relations Commission and to conduct all meetings in accordance with said rules and regulations;
(7)
To investigate, study, and inform the public as to any complaints received concerning the above areas;
(8)
[Reserved.]
(Ord. No. 05-01, § 3, 3-3-2005; Ord. No. 07-14, § 1, 5-15-2007)
Sec. 2-234. - [Compensation.]
No member of the Ashburn Community Relations Commission shall receive any compensation for his or her activities as a member of said body. The Ashburn Community Relations Commission shall submit an annual budgetary request to the governing authority of the city for approval. The governing authority of the city is hereby authorized to appropriate funds for use by the Ashburn Community Relations Commission, as provided herein.
(Ord. No. 05-01, § 4, 3-3-2005)
Sec. 2-235. - [Vacancies.]
The absence of any member from three consecutive meetings of the Ashburn Community Relations Commission shall automatically create a vacancy, which shall be filled by the mayor if the mayor appointed such member who was absent for three consecutive meetings. Should the commission member who was absent for three consecutive meetings be appointed by a council member, the commission member shall be replaced by appointment by the same council member making the original appointment of the vacating member. All appointments shall be for the unexpired term of the member whose absences created the vacancy.
(Ord. No. 05-01, § 5, 3-3-2005)
Secs. 2-236—2-250. - Reserved.
