Chapter 34 - COURTS[1]
Footnotes:
--- (1) ---
Cross reference— Administration, ch. 2; law enforcement, ch. 58; offenses and miscellaneous provisions, ch. 62; traffic and vehicles, ch. 82.
State Law reference— Contracts to furnish municipal court services authorized, O.C.G.A. § 15-7-80 et seq.; powers of presiding officer in court of a municipal corporation to bind over or commit criminal offenders to jail, O.C.G.A. § 17-7-22; municipal courts, O.C.G.A. § 36-32-1 et seq.; jurisdiction of municipal courts and magistrate courts to abate nuisances, O.C.G.A. § 41-2-5; agreements between private entities and municipal court judges for probation services, O.C.G.A. § 42-8-102; establishment of municipal courts authorized and jurisdiction thereof, Ga. Const. art. VI, § I, ¶ I.

ARTICLE I. - IN GENERAL

Sec. 34-1. - Sessions.
A regular session of the municipal court shall be held each month in sufficient frequency to meet the needs of the city. Each session shall be held at a fixed hour of a fixed day as may be determined by the municipal court judge, provided any session may be dispensed with when there is no business pending in the court or no cases are ready for trial.
Sec. 34-2. - Duty of police officers—Persons violating city ordinances.
Any police officer of the city shall arrest and confine in the county jail, when necessary, any offender against ordinances of the city, where such arrest and confinement is necessary to secure such offender's appearance before the municipal court to answer for an offense, or where it is necessary to preserve the peace and good order of the city, or such police officer may take bond as otherwise provided in section 19-50 of this chapter.
Sec. 34-3. - Same—Persons violating certain state laws.
Any person who shall, in the presence of any police officer, violate any penal laws of this state not punishable by city ordinances shall be arrested with or without a warrant and be carried before a committing magistrate for examination and prosecution.
Sec. 34-4. - Docket.
It shall be the duty of the clerk of court to keep a docket showing the disposition of all cases brought before the municipal court. At the trial of all cases, the city clerk shall record opposite the statement of the case the punishment inflicted and the date, and an entry shall be made under the sentence of the judge of the municipal court showing the final disposition of the case, that is whether the fine, if any, was collected, the date of such collection, and the disposition of such amounts.
Sec. 34-5. - Warrant or summons; issuance.
It shall be the duty of any member of the police department, in all cases where a complaint is made or information obtained of any violation of any of the laws or ordinances of the city, to issue an accusation/summons in the name of the city and directed to the accused, requiring the accused to appear before the municipal court to answer such charge, which accusation/summons shall designate the time and place of trial. It shall be signed by the officer issuing the accusation/summons, and a copy thereof shall be served upon the accused either personally or by leaving the copy at his place of residence by the issuing officer.
Sec. 34-6. - Service of summons generally.
Summons directed to any offender shall be served personally by some member of the police force.
Sec. 34-7. - Procedure for service of process on corporations.
(a)
In addition to any other means provided by law, corporations may be served in accordance with the provisions of this section.
(b)
Whenever any charge shall be preferred against a corporation doing business in the city for violation of this Code or other ordinance of the city, the city clerk shall issue an original and copy notice to the defendant corporation of the charge against such corporation, specifying the time when such charge shall be heard by the municipal court of the city, which copy notice shall be served by the chief of police or any police officer of the city, or the sheriff of the county, at least ten days before the time fixed for trial in the municipal court upon any officer or such corporation to be found in the city, or upon any agent of such corporation, or employee in charge of the business of such corporation, in the city. The officer serving such copy notice shall make an entry of such service on the original notice and return the notice to the municipal court of the city. Such service shall be served upon the corporation, and such case shall, upon the return of such notice as provided in this section, stand for trial before the municipal court at the time stated in such notice.
Sec. 34-8. - Issuance of subpoenas.
Whenever the attendance of any witness may be required before the municipal court to establish any act, the city clerk shall issue a subpoena or summons directed to the witness, stating the time and place of trial and the parties to the case, which shall be served as other process by the chief of police, or other officer or police officer.
Sec. 34-9. - Contempt for failure to appear.
(a)
If a defendant fails to appear before the municipal court at the designated date and time, the judge of the municipal court shall have the authority to charge the defendant with contempt of court, which offense shall carry a fine not to exceed $200.00, and to issue a bench warrant for the arrest and confinement of such defendant. The period of confinement shall continue until such time as the defendant posts bond and pays the fine(s) outstanding on the pending charge(s) or until the defendant's case can be heard by the court.
(b)
If any person summoned as a witness before the municipal court shall fail, neglect, or refuse to attend the trial, the judge of the municipal court shall have the authority to issue a rule nisi requiring the witness to show cause at a time and place stated therein why the witness should not be held in contempt of court. After hearing from the witness, the judge shall have the authority, if in his or her judgment the reason for non-attendance is insufficient, to hold the witness in contempt of court and punish the offense by a fine not to exceed $200.00 and/or imprisonment for a time not to exceed ten days, either or both, or in the alternative.
Sec. 34-10. - Continuances.
Where the ends of justice may require, all cases may be continued. Applications for continuance shall be addressed to the sound discretion of the court, under the rules governing in the superior courts of the state. All motions in the municipal court for a continuance of any case where the defendant is at liberty on bond shall be made by the defendant, the defendant's attorney at law or attorney in fact, which designation shall not include the surety of defendant's appearance bond. Where an appearance bond has been forfeited and the forfeiture is subsequently set aside for cause, no further motion to continue the case for trial shall be entertained until a forfeiture fee as set forth in schedule of fees and charges has been paid.
Sec. 34-11. - Holding defendant when court lacks jurisdiction.
If, after an investigation of any case, it should appear that the municipal court has no jurisdiction to determine it, the municipal court judge or the mayor shall require the defendant to enter into bond conditioned to appear before the next term of the court having jurisdiction, to answer such offense, which bond shall be turned over to the proper officer of such court. In default of such bond the municipal court judge or the mayor shall have power to commit the defendant to jail to answer the offense at the next term of court having jurisdiction thereof.
Sec. 34-12. - Rules of practice.
The city shall have the opening and conclusion in each case unless the defendant introduces no evidence. The defendant shall then be entitled to the conclusion. The city shall announce first if it is ready for trial; and, if not, it shall be held to as strict a showing for continuances as the defendant. The rules of evidence and examination of witnesses shall be the same as in the superior court, so far as such rules are applicable to the case on trial. All officers, informers, and persons injured shall be competent witnesses. In general, the municipal court shall be controlled by the rules of practice governing the superior court, so far as they are applicable to municipal courts, and by a sound construction of the Charter and ordinances of the city.
Sec. 34-13. - Guilty pleas.
Any party charged with the violation of any provision of this Code or any ordinance of the city may file a plea of "guilty" under such rules as the court may direct. Upon a plea of guilty, the municipal court shall pass sentence or judgment in the case as may appear reasonable and proper.
Sec. 34-14. - Minimum costs; working out.
In each case of a conviction in the municipal court, the costs assessable shall be as set forth in the schedule of fees and charges. Costs shall go into the general fund of the city for general municipal purposes. Defendants unable to pay costs, and compelled in lieu of payment to work on the public works, shall be each required to work two days to cover costs.
Sec. 34-15. - Contempt.
Any person who, during a session of the municipal court, shall be guilty of a contempt of court or who refuses to abide by any sentence or order of the court shall be punished by a fine not to exceed $200.00 or ten days in jail.
Sec. 34-16. - [Municipal court additional penalties.]
(a)
In every case in which the Municipal Court of Ashburn, Georgia, shall impose a fine, which shall be construed to include costs, for any offense against a criminal or traffic law of this state or any ordinance of the City of Ashburn, there shall be imposed upon such fine and costs an additional amount equal to ten percent of the fine and costs.
(b)
At the time of posting bail or bond in any case pending in the Municipal Court of Ashburn, Georgia, involving a violation of a criminal or traffic law of the State of Georgia or of the City of Ashburn, Georgia, an additional sum equal to ten percent of the original amount of such bail or bond shall be posted.
(c)
In every case in which the Municipal Court of Ashburn, Georgia, shall order the forfeiture of bail or bond, an additional sum equal to ten percent of the amount of the forfeiture shall be paid over as provided in O.C.G.A. § 15-21-94.
(d)
The sums required by subsections (a), (b), and (c) shall be added and collected in addition to those sums required by O.C.G.A. § 47-17-60 to be added and paid into the Peace Officers Annuity and Benefit Fund and by O.C.G.A. § 47-11-51 concerning the Judges of the Probate Courts Retirement Fund of Georgia.
(e)
The sums required to be collected pursuant to subsections (a), (b), and (c) shall be assessed and collected by the court officer charged with the duty of collecting moneys arising from fines and forfeited bonds and shall be paid over to the governing authority of Turner County by the tenth of the month following the month in which such sums are collected. Such sums shall be deposited by Turner County into a special account to be known as the "county jail fund," and shall be expended for the purposes of constructing, operating and staffing the county jail of Turner County, as provided in O.C.G.A. § 15-21-95.
(f)
This section shall become effective and shall require collection of the additional amounts on fines and forfeitures commencing on the first day of the month immediately following its adoption. All conflicting ordinances or other provisions and parts thereof are repealed.
(Ord. No. 2014-04, §§ 1—6, 7-3-2014)
Editor's note— Ord. No. 2014-04, §§ 1—6, adopted July 3, 2014, did not specify manner of inclusion; hence, codification as § 34-16 was at the discretion of the editor.
Sec. 34-17. - Maximum term of appointed office for municipal court judge; service agreements.
(a)
No person shall be qualified or eligible to serve as a judge of the municipal court unless he or she shall be in compliance with the requirements of state law on qualifications to serve in such office, including but not limited to compliance with all applicable training requirements.
(b)
All judges for the municipal court of the City of Ashburn shall be appointed by resolution of the city council that adopts or approves the service agreement with the judge. This service agreement shall include a term of service of no less than one year and no more than two years. The service agreement shall be approved by the city attorney as accurately describing the obligations of the judge and the independence of the court, and it shall identify obligations of the judge and of the city for oversight and management of court staff and court service providers. Unless the judge has been removed from office in the middle of the term as described below, the service agreement shall renew automatically for a subsequent term unless the city council, by resolution, appoints a successor judge to serve at the expiration of the then-current term.
(c)
The judge, or any judge pro tempore serving in the absence of the judge, is solely responsible for judicial decisions. Judicial decisions include, but are not limited to, establishment of a standard bail schedule, determination of bail in individual cases, determination of financial ability, conditions of probation, determination of liability, and determination of eligibility for indigent defense and for alternatives to monetary penalties including community service and penalty or fine reductions.
(d)
The judge is responsible for notifying the city manager and the city attorney of any resources or process changes that are required or appropriate in order for the court to operate in accordance with applicable law.
(e)
The municipal court judge may engage in the private practice of law; provided, however, a judge may not appear and represent a client before the Ashburn Municipal Court.
(f)
Before entering on duties of his or her office for the first time, an appointed judge shall take the following oath before an officer duly authorized to administer oaths in this state:
"I swear (or affirm) that I will faithfully and impartially and without fear, favor, or affection discharge my duties as judge of the Municipal Court for the City of Ashburn, and will take only my lawful compensation. I do further swear (or affirm) that I am not the holder of any unaccounted for public money due this State, or any political subdivision or authority thereof; that I am not the holder of any office of trust under the government of the United States, any other state, or any foreign state which I am prohibited from holding by the laws of the State of Georgia; and that I am otherwise qualified to hold said office, according to the Constitution and Laws of Georgia; and that I will support the Constitutions of the United States and of this state."
The oath shall be entered upon the minutes of the city council, and the judge's name, contact information for business correspondence, and term of office shall be provided to the administrative office of the courts.
(g)
A judge of the municipal court shall serve for the designated term in the service agreement but may be removed from the position, and the service agreement terminated during the term, by a two-thirds vote of the entire membership of the city council or upon action taken by the state judicial qualifications commission for:
(1)
Willful misconduct in office;
(2)
Willful and persistent failure to perform duties;
(3)
Habitual intemperance;
(4)
Conduct prejudicial to the administration of justice which brings the judicial office into disrepute; or
(5)
Disability seriously interfering with the performance of duties, which is, or is likely to become, of a permanent character.
(Ord. No. 2018-03, § 1, 3-1-2018)
Secs. 34-18—34-49. - Reserved.
ARTICLE II. - APPEARANCE BOND

Sec. 34-50. - Discretion of officer on duty as to certain bonds.
The officer on duty and in charge of the police station when any arrest is made may take bond with or without security, and, in his discretion, payable to the city, in any sum not exceeding $1,000.00 for the appearance of any person accused or suspected of being guilty of the violation of any ordinance of the city to stand to and abide his trial, and also of witnesses to testify in any case pending or about to be commenced.
Sec. 34-51. - Persons refusing to give bond.
If any arrested person or necessary witness shall fail to give the bond and security required of him/her, such person so refusing may be confined in the county jail or kept under guard so as to be present at trial or to testify, as the case may be.
Sec. 34-52. - Designation of bail; procedure upon failure of bonded persons to appear.
Upon failure of any principal in any bond to appear where such principal is charged with a violation of any of the provisions of this Code or other ordinances of the city or upon the failure of any principal, who is a witness, to appear and testify as engaged, the judge of the municipal court shall pass a rule requiring the principal and sureties on such bond or recognizance to show cause before him/her on any date named therein, not to be less than a period of time as set by the judge of the municipal court from the passage of such rule, why they should not be required to pay the amount of such bond or recognizance and all costs of forfeiture.
Sec. 34-53. - Service of rule to show cause.
Any member of the police force of the city shall serve a copy of the rule described in section 19-52, above, upon the principal and surety, if to be found in the city, personally or by leaving a copy at their usual place of abode, at least five days before the time named therein for hearing the cause.
Sec. 34-54. - Entry of judgment against delinquent principal and sureties.
If no sufficient cause is shown to the contrary, the judge of the municipal court shall proceed to enter up judgment against the principal and sureties for the amount of such bond and costs, and the city clerk shall issue execution for the amount of the judgment and costs, which execution shall bear teste in the name of the judge, and place the same in the hands of the chief of police who shall proceed to collect the same by levy and sale.
Sec. 34-55. - Delivery of principal prior to judgment and forfeiture; release of surety.
Any surety upon any bail bond of any person charged with a violation of any provision of this Code or other ordinance of the city may surrender his/her principal at any time before forfeiture to the chief of police, who shall confine such principal until discharged by order of the municipal court, or until such principal shall give other good and acceptable security and the delivery of the principal by the surety shall discharge such surety from all liability upon the bond.
Sec. 34-56. - Sureties residing beyond the county.
No officer of the city shall accept on any bail bond any surety residing beyond the limits of the county, except as authorized by the city council, but in case such officer shall do so, the surety will be bound, and, upon entry of judgment against such surety, the judgment shall be collected as provided by law.
Sec. 34-57. - Disposition of money pledges.
If the person arrested shall fail to appear at the place and time of trial so appointed, it shall be the duty of the judge of the municipal court to declare any pledge forfeited and to order the money to be paid into the city treasury as in other fines and forfeitures if it has not already been deposited in such treasury. If the person so arrested shall appear as engaged and is adjudged not guilty, the money and the property thus deposited shall be ordered by the court delivered up to the person depositing the same. Should any accused person be adjudged guilty and fined upon trial, the amount of the fine and costs of the trial shall be paid into the city treasury, and the remainder, if any, refunded to the accused or to the person entitled thereto.
Secs. 34-58—34-75. - Reserved.
ARTICLE III. - INDIGENT DEFENSE COUNCIL AND OFFICE OF PROSECUTOR[2]

Footnotes:
--- (2) ---
Editor's note— Ord. No. 04-08, §§ 1—6, adopted July 1, 2003, did not specifically amend this Code. Hence, inclusion of said ordinance provisions as §§ 34-76—34-81 was at the editor's discretion.

Sec. 34-76. - [Indigent defense council office established; appointment.]
There is hereby established for the municipal court of the City of Ashburn the office of indigent defense counsel. Said position shall be filled each year by the mayor and council at their first regular official meeting of the calendar year, for a term of one year, and until a successor has been appointed. All persons appointed to this position shall be members in good standing of the State Bar of Georgia, and shall be licensed and qualified to practice law in the State of Georgia. Should the mayor and council fail to appoint a successor, the incumbent shall continue to serve at the pleasure of the mayor and council, and until a successor is appointed. The compensation of such appointee shall be fixed by the mayor and council by agreement with the appointee.
(Ord. No. 04-08, § 1, 7-1-2003)
Sec. 34-77. - [Duties.]
It shall be the duty of indigent defense counsel to attend each session of the municipal court at which there will be arraignments and/or trials of cases involving the violation of city ordinances and/or state laws, and to represent and defend the accused person in all cases and/or arraignments where appointed and directed by the court to do so.
(Ord. No. 04-08, § 2, 7-1-2003)
Sec. 34-78. - [Office of prosecutor established; appointment.]
(a)
There is hereby established for the Municipal Court of the City of Ashburn, Georgia the office of prosecutor. Said position shall be filled each year by the mayor and council at their first regular official meeting of the calendar year for a term of one year and until a successor has been appointed. All persons appointed to this position shall be members of in good standing of the State Bar of Georgia, and shall be licensed and qualified to practice law in the State of Georgia. Should the mayor and council fail to appoint a successor, the incumbent shall continue to serve at the pleasure of the mayor and council, and until a successor is appointed. The compensation of such appointee shall be fixed by the mayor and council by agreement with the appointee.
(b)
Upon appointment, the prosecutor of the municipal court shall take and subscribe to the following oath:
I swear (or affirm) that I will well, faithfully, and impartially and without fear, favor or affection discharge my duties as prosecuting attorney of the City of Ashburn.
(c)
Upon appointment of prosecutor or a successor and within 30 days thereafter, it shall be the duty of the clerk of municipal court, or such other person as designated by the city council to notify the prosecuting attorneys council of the State of Georgia of the name of the person appointed.
(d)
The office of prosecutor of municipal court shall be part-time and the prosecutor may engage in the private practice of law, but shall not practice or appear in the Municipal Court of the City of Ashburn or appear in any matter in which he/she has exercised jurisdiction.
(e)
If the prosecutor of municipal court is disqualified from engaging in the prosecution of a particular case or is unable to perform the duties of said office due to illness or incapacity, the city council shall appoint a substitute prosecuting attorney.
(Ord. No. 04-08, § 3, 7-1-2003; Ord. No. 12-02, § 1(Exh. A), 5-3-2012)
Sec. 34-79. - [Duties.]
(a)
It shall be the duty of the prosecutor to attend each session of the municipal court at which there will be arraignments and/or trials of cases involving violation of city ordinances and/or state laws and to prosecute the trial of said cases where directed by the court to do so.
(b)
In addition to the duties specified herein above, the prosecutor of municipal court shall be charged with those duties and authorities provided by O.C.G.A. § 15-18-96.
(Ord. No. 04-08, § 4, 7-1-2003; Ord. No. 12-02, § 2(Exh. A), 5-3-2012)
Sec. 34-80. - [Representation by indigent defense counsel.]
In every criminal proceeding in the municipal court, both at arraignments and at trial, in which imprisonment is provided by law as a possible punishment, where the accused is not otherwise represented by counsel, and where the judge determines that the accused is financially unable to employ counsel, the court shall appoint and direct indigent defense counsel to represent such accused.
(Ord. No. 04-08, § 5, 7-1-2003)
Sec. 34-81. - [Fees assessed.]
At their first regular official meeting of each calendar year the mayor and council shall, by the method hereinafter set forth, establish a fee to be added as costs in every criminal case disposed of by the court, whether by trial or by plea, and in every bond forfeiture declared by the court, and it shall be the duty of the judge of the municipal court to add said costs in every case as above provided in addition to all other costs, fines, fees and forfeitures. The amount of said cost, to be fixed each year as above provided, shall be determined as follows: The total amounts paid to the prosecutor and to indigent defense counsel during the preceding calendar year shall be divided by the total number of all criminal cases processed by the court for the preceding calendar year, including trials, pleas, and bond forfeitures, and the result of that computation shall be the fee to be added as costs as hereinbefore provided during the ensuing calendar year.
(Ord. No. 04-08, § 4 [6], 7-1-2003)
