DIVISION 734. - LEGAL STATUS PROVISIONS

Sec. 734.01. - Conflict with Other Laws.
Whenever these subdivision regulations impose more restrictive standards than are required in or under any federal or state law or applicable local ordinances, the requirements of these regulations shall govern. Whenever the provisions of any applicable federal, state or local ordinances require more restrictive standards than are required by these subdivision regulations the provisions of such laws or ordinances shall govern.
Sec. 734.02. - Penalties for Transferring Lot in Unapproved Subdivisions.
Whoever, being owner or agent of any land located within a subdivision, transfers or sells any land in such subdivision before such plat has been approved by the Planning Commission and the Board of Commissioners and recorded in the Office of the Clerk of the Superior Court of Polk County, Georgia, shall forfeit and pay a penalty as referenced in Subpart A; Chapter 1, Section 1-18, Fine Schedule for each lot or parcel so transferred or sold; and the description of such lot or parcel by metes and bounds in the instrument of transfer or other documents used in the process of selling or transferring shall not exempt the transaction from such penalties or from the remedies herein provided. The County may enjoin such transfer or sale or agreement by action for injunction brought in any court of equity jurisdiction or may recover the same penalty by civil action in any court of competent jurisdiction.
(Ord. No. 2019-01, ยง 1, 2-5-2019)
Sec. 734.03. - Exemptions.
Previously approved final subdivision plats are exempt from the requirement of this article [division] unless the development of such plans has not been undertaken within a period of 12 months from the date of approval.
APPENDIX A REQUIRED PLAT ENDORSEMENTS
1.
"It is hereby certified that this plat is true and correct prepared from an actual survey of the property made under my supervision on the ground.
"Registered Land Surveyor"
"Surveyor Number"
2.
"The owner of the land shown on this plat and whose name is subscribed hereto and who in person or through duly authorized agent acknowledges that this plat was made from an actual survey and dedicates the use to the public forever of all alleys, streets and other public places thereon shown for the purpose and consideration therein.
"Name of Owner"
3.
"This plat has been approved by the Board of Commissioners, Polk County, Georgia. Furthermore the Board of Commissioners accepts all dedicated right-of-way, public streets, public places and public utility easements for maintenance.
"Date"
"Board of Commissioners"
4.
"The undersigned, as Public Works Director of Polk County, Georgia, hereby approves this plat for the recording of same in the Office of the Clerk of the Superior Court of Polk County.
"Date"
"Public Works Director"
"County"
5.
"The undersigned, as Planning and Zoning Director of Polk County, Georgia, hereby approves this plat for the recording of same in the Office of the Clerk of the Superior Court of Polk County.
"Date"
"Planning and Zoning Director"
"Polk County, Georgia"
(Ord. of 9-9-2014)
