Chapter 5 - CEMETERIES[1]
Footnotes:
--- (1) ---
State Law reference— Georgia Cemetery and Funeral Services Act of 2000, O.C.G.A. § 10-14-1 et seq.; criminal trespass and damage to property, O.C.G.A. § 16-7-20 et seq.; disposition of unclaimed dead bodies, O.C.G.A. § 31-21-21 et seq.; abandoned cemeteries and burial grounds, O.C.G.A. § 36-72-1 et seq.

ARTICLE I. - IN GENERAL

Sec. 5-1. - Regulations regarding columbaria.
new
The city may construct, maintain, and does establish the following rules and guidelines regarding any columbarium owned by the city:
(1)
Fees: All fees related to purchase of a niche, transfer of interment rights, opening of a niche, and any other fees related to the operation and use of the columbarium shall be established and set by the city and codified in section 2-110 of the city's Code.
(2)
Ownership: All niches in the city columbarium are and shall be owned by the city. The city may grant permission for cremains to be stored in a niche, which permission shall be in writing and shall be in the nature of a license permitting someone to store cremains as described in the writing granting such permission.
(3)
Transfer of rights to utilize niche. Transfer of the right to utilize a niche in the columbarium will only be allowed with written confirmation of approval from the city. Any and all transfers of the right to utilize a niche shall require the payment of a nonrefundable transfer application fee to the city before such rights can be transferred.
(4)
Upkeep of columbarium. The city shall be solely responsible for the upkeep of the columbarium. The city is not responsible or liable for theft or damage to the contents of the columbarium.
(5)
Key possession and use of niche. Possession of the key to unlock each burial niche within the columbarium will be held by the city. It shall be illegal and a violation of this ordinance to make a copy of said key for personal use.
(6)
Transfer documents. The documents required to and relating to transfer of a burial niche shall be as prescribed by the city.
(7)
Opening of burial niches.
a.
Initial opening: A burial niche may be unlocked or opened for interring cremains free of charge.
b.
Subsequent openings: A niche may be opened up to two times after the initial interring of cremains, and each such charge shall be accompanied by the payment of a fee established by the city for that purpose. Any opening of a niche after the second such opening will require the payment of the same fee but may only be done for the purpose of permanent removal of the cremains from the columbarium and will incur the disinterment charge.
c.
Opening of a niche during weekend, holiday, or evening hours will cost an additional fee over and above the standard fee to open a niche.
(8)
Interments.
a.
No niche shall be used for the interment of cremains until all fees have been fully paid, including interment fees. The public works director or his or her agent will authorize placement of containers within a niche only after verification of payment of fees has been made.
b.
If the person(s) to be interred is not the owner, the owner must authorize the interment in writing and such authorization must be notarized.
c.
All interment requests shall be reviewed and approved by the public works director or his or her agent prior to the actual interment.
(9)
Disinterment. The removal of cremains from a columbarium niche shall comply strictly with the following provisions:
a.
The person(s) wishing to remove cremains must comply with the following:
1.
The person seeking to remove cremains must have a legal right to manage the cremains and bears the burden of proving to the city that such legal right exists.
2.
The person seeking to remove cremains must provide a sworn statement as to the identity of the then living heirs of the person whose cremains are to be removed, such heirship to be determined according to O.C.G.A. § 53-2-1.
3.
The person seeking to remove cremains must provide notice to all persons identified in conjunction with subsection (9)a.2 above via certified mail or overnight delivery, or shall explain to the satisfaction of the public works director why the notice cannot be provided. The notice must specify the date on which the cremains are to be removed, which shall be not less than two weeks from the date that the notice is sent.
4.
Cremains shall not be removed from the columbarium until two weeks from the date that the above described notice is sent in order to provide any persons wishing to object to the removal the opportunity to explore legal remedies to stop said removal.
5.
Any and all persons authorizing the removal of cremains shall indemnify and hold harmless the city from all claims related to such removal.
b.
The person(s) wishing to remove cremains must provide acceptable proof of identity, as determined by the public works director or his or her agent.
c.
The request for cremains removal must be approved by the public works director before removal may occur.
d.
If satisfactory documentation is not provided to remove cremains, the public works director or his or her agent may deny the request for cremains removal. His or her decision will be final.
e.
The request for removal of cremains must be accompanied by the payment of all fees established by the city council.
f.
After a completed removal, the public works director or his or her agent shall amend the records to reflect the removal of the cremains.
(10)
Marking of niches. All burial niches must be marked when cremains are interred. All markings shall be done through the city in such a manner as the city shall prescribe. Limited inscription services shall be included in the cost of a niche. Included inscription shall contain a name, birthdate and date of death only for a maximum of two cremains per niche.
(11)
Cost. The cost of a burial niche may be based upon such factors as the city council may determine appropriate, including but not limited to the size of the niche and its location with respect to the columbarium in general.
(12)
Use of niches. A columbarium consists of niches for cremation interments only. No niches shall be used for any purpose other than the interment of human cremains (ashes). No personal items shall be allowed.
(13)
Columbarium planting and other decorations.
a.
Flower arrangements or memorials. Following an interment in the columbarium, one flower arrangement or memorial may be left at the site of the niche in which the interment occurred for a duration not to exceed 72 hours, at which time the flower arrangement or memorial must be removed. Any flower arrangement or memorial left after 72 hours will be removed by city staff. At no time will any items be allowed to remain in or at the columbarium on a permanent or semi-permanent basis.
b.
The city is not responsible for flower arrangements or memorial placed in the columbarium.
(Ord. No. 01-2023 , § 1, 3-6-2023)
Secs. 5-2—5-18. - Reserved.
new
ARTICLE II. - DAWSONVILLE MEMORIAL GARDENS

Sec. 5-19. - Authority of city to regulate.
(a)
The mayor and council reserve to themselves and their successors in office the right to alter, amend, modify, or add to the rules, regulations, condition, and restrictions herein set forth at any time it is deemed advisable to do so in order to carry out the purposes of this article.
(b)
There shall be no liability whatsoever, whether tort or contractual, on the part of the city, its officials, officers or their successors in office, or its agents or employees to any purchaser or to the family or relatives of any person buried in the Dawsonville Memorial Gardens, or to any person or the family of such person who has erected any markers by reason of any act or acts, thing or things, omission, negligence, or otherwise relating to the cemetery. In accepting any conveyance of any burial lot, each purchaser agrees that all provisions of this article are valid and that he and his heirs and assigns shall hold such lot subject to all the provisions of this article and subject to all amendments hereto made by the mayor and city council.
(Ord. of 12-6-1978, § VII)
Sec. 5-20. - Management and supervision.
The responsibility for the management, operation, maintenance, and general supervision of all municipal cemeteries shall be vested in the city council.
(Ord. of 12-6-1978, § I)
Sec. 5-21. - Advisor and superintendent of municipal cemeteries.
(a)
Appointment. The mayor and city council shall appoint an advisor and superintendent of municipal cemeteries, which officer shall be subject to removal at any time by the council.
(b)
Duties. The superintendent and advisor of the Dawsonville Memorial Gardens shall look after and take proper care of all municipal cemeteries and see that no lot in any cemetery is used or occupied in violation of this article or of any rule or regulation promulgated by the mayor and council.
(Ord. of 12-6-1978, § II)
Sec. 5-22. - Purchase and conveyance of lots.
(a)
Lot valuation. The Dawsonville Memorial Gardens shall be divided into four sections, valued per grave in the amount established in section 2-110. At least ten percent of all lot sales will be deposited into a perpetual care fund and the interest thereof shall be used for future cemetery maintenance. Such valuations shall be recorded on an official map or plan of the Dawsonville Memorial Gardens, such map shall be kept on file, open to public inspection, in the office of the city clerk.
(b)
Method of purchase. Any person desiring to purchase an easement in a particular lot or lots for the purpose for which it is intended shall be permitted to do so upon payment of the price fixed for such lot.
(c)
Manner of conveying. Conveyances of burial lots shall be executed in the name of the city by the mayor and city clerk and have affixed thereto the seal of the city. Such conveyances shall not convey fee simple title, but shall convey to the purchaser of each burial lot an easement for the exclusive right of interment and sepulcher in such lot, shall state the maximum number of graves allowed on each lot as shown by the plat, and, by reference therein made, shall convey each lot subject to all the provisions of this article as fully as if set out in each such conveyance.
(d)
Recordation of deed. At the time the city conveys any burial lot, the city clerk, in addition to collecting from the purchaser an amount sufficient to have such conveyance recorded in the superior court clerk's office, shall have such conveyance so recorded before delivery thereof to such purchaser. No sale or transfer of any such burial lot or any right therein, nor any subdividing of any burial lot by any purchaser or those claiming under him, shall be valid unless approved in writing by the city or until the deed to transfer and such written approval are recorded in the superior court clerk's office.
(e)
Sale or transfer by owner. Owners of lots shall not be permitted to sell or transfer lots without the written consent and approval of the city council.
(Ord. of 12-6-1978, § III)
Sec. 5-23. - Rules for interment.
No deceased person shall be interred in any municipal cemetery until the city clerk has found:
(1)
That the lot in which burial is to be made has been fully paid for;
(2)
That the person arranging for such burial has the right to the use of such lot;
(3)
That such lot is not used beyond its capacity; and
(4)
That proper record is made of the name and age of the deceased person and of the exact location of the grave.
(Ord. of 12-6-1978, § IV)
Sec. 5-24. - Restrictions of use.
(a)
Enclosures. No curbing, fencing, or enclosure of any sort shall be erected on, in, or around any burial lot in the cemetery, but the city reserves the right to erect curbing along the walks and driveways if it so desires.
(b)
Planting. The planting of flowers and shrubs or any other effort to improve or beautify any lot within a municipal cemetery shall not be allowed by the city council. Nothing herein contained shall be construed to prohibit the decoration or adornment of any grave site with artificial or cut flowers. The relatives shall be responsible for the removal of artificial or dead flowers from grave sites.
(c)
Bronze markers. Only bronze markers will be allowed in Dawsonville Memorial Gardens. Bronze markers shall be ordered by the cemetery advisor or city clerk. No other marker shall be permitted in Dawsonville Memorial Gardens.
(Ord. of 12-6-1978, § V)
Sec. 5-25. - Regulations in general.
(a)
Trees and shrubs. No trees or shrub shall be planted, removed, cut down, or destroyed within the boarders of any burial lot, walks, or lawn spaces.
(b)
Injury to markers. It shall be unlawful for any person to remove, deface, or in any manner injure any marker or ornament thereof within any municipal cemetery.
(c)
Discharging firearms. It shall be unlawful for any person to shoot any gun, pistol, or other firearm within any municipal cemetery except at a funeral ceremony.
(d)
Depositing offensive matter. It shall be unlawful for any person to deposit on any part of any cemetery or any land adjoining it any dead carcass or any putrid or offensive matter whatever.
(e)
Disorderly conduct. It shall be unlawful for any person to conduct himself or herself in a boisterous or disorderly manner within the perimeter of any municipal cemetery.
(f)
Entering cemeteries at night. It shall be unlawful for any person to enter any municipal cemetery or walk upon or across any such cemetery between sunset and sunrise without the written consent of the city council.
(g)
Advertisements. It shall be unlawful for any person to solicit any work in a municipal cemetery.
(h)
Unauthorized interments. It shall be unlawful for any person to inter any dead body in any part of a municipal cemetery without the express authorization of the advisor of the city cemetery.
(i)
Disinterment. Disinterments shall be made only when authorized by the mayor and council and the county board of health.
(Ord. of 12-6-1978, § VI)
Sec. 5-26. - Outer burial container.
An outer burial container that will at least support the weight of the earth above the grave shall be required for all interment in municipal cemeteries.
(Mo. of 9-1-1992)
