Chapter 1 - GENERAL PROVISIONS

Sec. 1-1. - Designation and citation of Code.
The ordinances embraced in the following chapters and sections shall constitute and be designated "The Code of Dawsonville, Georgia," and may be so cited. Such Code may also be known and cited as "Code of the City of Dawsonville, Georgia."
State Law reference— Codification requirements, O.C.G.A. § 36-80-19.
Sec. 1-2. - Definitions and rules of construction.
In the construction of this Code and of all ordinances and resolutions, the following rules shall govern, unless such construction would be inconsistent with the manifest intent of the city council:
Bond. When a bond is required by law, an undertaking, in writing, without seal, is sufficient. In all bonds where the names of the obligors do not appear in the bond, but are subscribed thereto, such obligors shall be bound thereby.
Charter. The term "Charter" shall mean the Charter of the City of Dawsonville, Georgia, as set forth in 1996 Ga. Laws, page 4135.
City. The term "city" shall mean the City of Dawsonville, Georgia.
City council. The term "city council" means the City Council of the City of Dawsonville, Georgia.
Code. The term "Code" shall mean The Code of Dawsonville, Georgia, as designated in section 1-1.
Computation of time. Except as otherwise provided by time period computations specifically applying to other laws, when a period of time measured in days, weeks, months, years, or other measurements of time, except hours, is prescribed for the exercise of any privilege or the discharge of any duty, the first day shall not be counted, but the last day shall be counted; and, if the last day falls on Saturday or Sunday, the party having such privilege or duty shall have through the following Monday to exercise the privilege or to discharge the duty. When the last day prescribed for such action falls on a public and legal holiday as set forth in O.C.G.A. § 1-4-1, the party having the privilege or duty shall have through the next business day to exercise the privilege or to discharge the duty. When the period of time prescribed is less than seven days, intermediate Saturdays, Sundays and legal holidays shall be excluded in the computation.
Corporate limits. The term "corporate limits" shall mean the corporate limits of the City of Dawsonville.
County, the county or this county. Whenever the term "county," "the county" or "this county" is used, it shall refer to Dawson County, Georgia.
Court. The term "court" shall mean the municipal court provided by law for the punishment of offenders against the laws or ordinances of the city, whether the same shall be the court now constituted or a court hereafter established pursuant to law.
Delegation of authority. Whenever a provision requires the head of a department or an official of the city to do some act or perform some function, it shall be construed to authorize the head of such department or the official to designate, delegate, and authorize subordinates to do the required act or perform the required function, unless the terms of the provisions designate otherwise.
Gender. The masculine gender shall include the feminine and neuter.
Interpretation. In the interpretation and application of any provision of this Code, it shall be held to be the minimum requirements adopted for the promotion of the public health, safety, comfort, convenience, and general welfare. Where any provision of this Code imposes greater restrictions upon the subject matter than the general provision imposed by this Code, the provision imposing the greater restriction or regulation shall be deemed to be controlling.
Joint authority. A joint authority given to any number of persons or officers may be executed by a majority of them, unless it is otherwise declared.
Month, year. The terms "month" and "year" shall mean a calendar month and calendar year, unless otherwise provided.
Names of officers, departments. The name or title of any officer or department shall be read as though the words "of the City of Dawsonville" were added thereto.
Number. The singular or plural number shall each include the other, unless expressly excluded.
Oath. The term "oath" includes affirmation.
O.C.G.A. The abbreviation "O.C.G.A." shall mean the Official Code of Georgia Annotated, as amended.
Or, and. The term "or" may be read "and," and the term "and" may be read "or," if the sense requires it.
Person. The term "person" shall extend and be applied to firms, partnerships, associations, organizations, corporations, and bodies politic, or any combination thereof, as well as to natural persons.
Preceding, following. The terms "preceding" and "following" shall mean generally next before and next after, unless the context requires a different significance.
Property. The term "property" includes real and personal property.
Signature or subscription. A signature or subscription includes the mark of all illiterate or infirm persons.
State, the state or this state. Whenever the term "state," "the state" or "this state" is used, it shall refer to the State of Georgia.
Street. The term "street" shall include streets, sidewalks, avenues, boulevards, roads, alleys, lanes, and all other public highways in the city, unless otherwise provided.
Substantial compliance. A substantial compliance with any requirement of this Code or ordinances amendatory thereto, especially on the part of public officers, shall be deemed and held sufficient, and no proceeding shall be declared void for want of such compliance, unless expressly so provided.
Technical and nontechnical words. The ordinary significance shall be applied to all words, except words of art, or words connected with a particular trade or subject matter, in which case they shall have the significance attached to them by experts in such trade, or with reference to such subject matter.
Tense. The present or past tense shall include the future.
Writing. The term "writing" includes printing and all numerals, and also pictures, illustrations and printed or written designs.
State Law reference— Statutory definitions and rules of construction, O.C.G.A. § 1-3-1 et seq.; computation of time, O.C.G.A. § 1-3-1(3); construction of statutory definitions, O.C.G.A. § 1-3-2; general statutory definition, O.C.G.A. § 1-3-3; computation of time under Civil Practice Act and court rules, O.C.G.A. § 9-11-6.
Sec. 1-3. - Catchlines of sections; history notes; references.
(a)
The catchlines of the several sections of this Code printed in boldface type are intended as mere catchwords to indicate the contents of the section and are not titles of such sections, or of any part of the section, nor unless expressly so provided shall they be so deemed when any such section, including the catchline, is amended or reenacted.
(b)
The history or source notes appearing in parentheses after sections in this Code have no legal effect and only indicate legislative history. Editor's notes, cross references and state law references that appear in this Code after sections or subsections or that otherwise appear in footnote form are provided for the convenience of the user of the code and have no legal effect.
(c)
Unless specified otherwise, all references to chapters or sections are to chapters or sections of this Code.
State Law reference— Notes and catchlines of code sections not part of law, O.C.G.A. § 1-1-7.
Sec. 1-4. - Effect of repeal of ordinances.
(a)
The repeal of an ordinance shall not revive any ordinance in force before or at the time the ordinance repealed took effect.
(b)
The repeal of an ordinance shall not affect any punishment or penalty incurred before the repeal took effect, nor any suit, prosecution, or proceeding pending at the time of the repeal, for an offense committed or matter covered under the ordinance repealed.
Sec. 1-5. - Severability of parts of Code.
It is declared to be the intention of the city council that the sections, paragraphs, sentences, clauses, and phrases of this Code are severable, and if any phrase, clause, sentence, paragraph, or section of this Code shall be declared unconstitutional, invalid, or unenforceable by the valid judgment or decree of a court of competent jurisdiction, such unconstitutionality, invalidity, and unenforceability shall not affect any of the remaining phrases, clauses, sentences, paragraphs, and sections of this Code.
State Law reference— Severability of state legislation, O.C.G.A. § 1-1-3.
Sec. 1-6. - Amendments to Code; effect of new ordinances; amendatory language.
(a)
All ordinances passed subsequent to this Code of Ordinances which amend, repeal, or in any way affect this Code of Ordinances may be numbered in accordance with the numbering system of this Code and printed for inclusion in this Code. The subsequent ordinances as numbered and printed or omitted, in the case of repeal, shall be prima facie evidence of such subsequent ordinances until such time that this Code of Ordinances and subsequent ordinances numbered or omitted are readopted as a new Code of Ordinances by the city council.
(b)
Amendments to any of the provisions of this Code may be made by amending such provisions by specific references to the section number of this Code in the following language: "Section _____ of The Code of Dawsonville, Georgia, is amended to read as follows: . . ." The new provisions shall then be set out in full as desired.
(c)
If a new section not heretofore existing in this Code is to be added, the following language shall be used: "The Code of Dawsonville, Georgia, is amended by adding a section (division, article, or chapter) to be numbered _____, which section (division, article, or chapter) reads as follows: . . ." The new section, division, article, or chapter shall then be set out in full as desired.
(d)
All sections, divisions, articles, chapters, or provisions desired to be repealed must be specifically repealed by section, division, article or chapter number, as the case may be.
Sec. 1-7. - Supplementation of Code.
(a)
By contract or by city personnel, supplements to this Code shall be prepared and printed whenever authorized or directed by the city. A supplement to this Code shall include all substantive, permanent, and general parts of ordinances passed by the city council during the period covered by the supplement and all changes made thereby in the Code. The pages of a supplement shall be so numbered that they will fit properly into the Code and will, where necessary, replace pages that have become obsolete or partially obsolete, and the new pages shall be so prepared that, when they have been inserted, the Code will be current through the date of adoption of the latest ordinance included in the supplement.
(b)
In preparing a supplement to this Code, all portions of the Code which have been repealed shall be excluded from the Code by the omission thereof from reprinted pages.
(c)
When preparing a supplement to this Code, the codifier (meaning the person authorized to prepare the supplement) may make formal, nonsubstantive changes in ordinances and parts of ordinances included in the supplement, insofar as it is necessary to do so to embody them into a unified code. For example, the codifier may:
(1)
Organize the ordinance material into appropriate subdivisions.
(2)
Provide appropriate catchlines, headings, and titles for sections and other subdivisions of the Code printed in the supplement and make changes in such catchlines, headings, and titles.
(3)
Assign appropriate numbers to sections and other subdivisions to be inserted in the Code and, where necessary to accommodate new material, change existing section or other subdivision numbers.
(4)
Change the words "this ordinance" or words of the same meaning to "this chapter," "this article," "this division," etc., as the case may be, or to "sections _____ to _____" (inserting section numbers to indicate the sections of the Code which embody the substantive sections of the ordinance incorporated into the Code).
(5)
Make other nonsubstantive changes necessary to preserve the original meanings of ordinance sections inserted into the Code; but in no case shall the codifier make any change in the meaning or effect of ordinance material included in the supplement or already embodied in the Code.
Sec. 1-8. - General penalty.
(a)
In this section "violation of this Code" means any of the following:
(1)
Doing an act that is prohibited or made or declared unlawful, an offense, a violation or a misdemeanor by ordinance or by rule or regulation authorized by ordinance.
(2)
Failure to perform an act that is required to be performed by ordinance or by rule or regulation authorized by ordinance.
(3)
Failure to perform an act if the failure is prohibited or is made or declared unlawful, an offense, a violation or a misdemeanor by rule or regulation authorized by ordinance.
(b)
In this section "violation of this Code" does not include the failure of a city officer or city employee to perform an official duty unless it is specifically provided that the failure to perform the duty is to be punished as provided in this section.
(c)
Any violation of this Code by any officer, agent, or other person acting for or employed by any corporation or unincorporated association or organization, while acting within the scope of his office or employment, shall in every case also be deemed to be a violation by such corporation, association or organization. Any officer, agent, or other person acting for or employed by any corporation or unincorporated association or organization shall be subject and liable to punishment as well as such corporation or unincorporated association or organization for a violation of this Code, where such violation was the act or omission, or the result of the act, omission or order, of any such person.
(d)
Except as otherwise provided by law or ordinance, a person convicted of a violation of this Code shall be guilty of a misdemeanor and punished by a fine not to exceed $1,000.00, imprisonment for a period of not more than six months, any other punishment, fee, or assessment of costs provided by law, or any combination thereof.
(1)
The city manager shall establish and revise from time to time a list of fines for specific ordinance violations ("fine schedule") and the same shall be reviewed, modified as necessary and approved by the city judge before becoming effective. In the event that a person charged with an ordinance violation that is listed on the fine schedule desires to admit the violation and pay the fine, said person shall be allowed to do so in writing and pay the scheduled fine prior to the time set for hearing on the violation in city court. The fine schedule shall be published on the city website and available for viewing in the office of the city clerk.
(2)
In the event no fine is listed on the fine schedule for a specific ordinance violation or in the event that the person charged with the violation does not desire to admit the violation, the ordinance violation shall be referred to city court for trial by the city judge with punishment upon conviction set by the city judge.
(e)
Except as otherwise provided by law or ordinance:
(1)
With respect to violations of this Code that are continuous with respect to time, each day that the violation continues is a separate offense. Notwithstanding the foregoing, nothing in this Code shall require a separate citation be written and actually issued for each separate offense of a continuous nature.
(2)
As to other violations, each violation constitutes a separate offense.
(f)
The imposition of a penalty does not prevent suspension or revocation of a license, permit or franchise or other administrative sanctions.
(g)
Violations of this Code that are continuous with respect to time are a public nuisance and may be abated by injunctive or other equitable relief. The imposition of a penalty does not prevent injunctive relief or civil or quasi judicial enforcement.
(Ord. of 8-19-2019, § 1)
State Law reference— Confinement as penalty for violation of municipal ordinances, O.C.G.A. § 36-30-8; authorization of municipal courts to impose any punishment up to the maximum specified by general law, O.C.G.A. § 36-32-1(c); limitations on home rule powers of municipalities with respect to duplication of state criminal offenses, O.C.G.A. § 36-35-6(a)(2); jurisdiction of municipal courts over misdemeanor traffic offenses, O.C.G.A. § 40-13-21(a).
Sec. 1-9. - Provisions considered continuations of existing ordinances.
The provisions of this Code, insofar as they are substantially the same as legislation previously adopted by the city relating to the same subject matter, shall be construed as restatements and continuations thereof and not as new enactments.
Sec. 1-10. - Code does not affect prior offenses or rights.
(a)
Nothing in this Code or the ordinance adopting this Code affects any offense or act committed or done, any penalty or forfeiture incurred, or any contract or right established before the effective date of this Code.
(b)
The adoption of this Code does not authorize any use or the continuation of any use of a structure or premises in violation of any city ordinance on the effective date of this Code.
Sec. 1-11. - Certain ordinances not affected by Code.
Nothing in this Code or the ordinance adopting this Code affects the validity of any ordinance or portion of an ordinance listed below. All such ordinances or portions of ordinances continue in full force and effect to the same extent as if published at length in this Code:
(1)
Annexing property into the city or describing the corporate limits.
(2)
Deannexing property or excluding property from the city.
(3)
Promising or guaranteeing the payment of money or authorizing the issuance of bonds or other instruments of indebtedness.
(4)
Authorizing or approving any contract, deed, or agreement.
(5)
Making or approving any appropriation or budget.
(6)
Providing for salaries or other employee benefits not codified in this Code.
(7)
Granting any right or franchise.
(8)
Adopting or amending a comprehensive plan.
(9)
Levying or imposing any special assessment.
(10)
Dedicating, establishing, naming, locating, relocating, opening, paving, widening, repairing or vacating any road, street, sidewalk or alley.
(11)
Establishing the grade of any road, street or sidewalk.
(12)
Dedicating, accepting or vacating any plat or providing for subdivision or development regulations not codified in this Code.
(13)
Levying, imposing or otherwise relating to taxes not codified in this Code.
(14)
Granting a tax exemption for specific property.
(15)
Not codified in this Code prescribing traffic regulations for specific locations.
(16)
Rezoning property, amending the zoning map or otherwise pertaining to zoning.
(17)
That is temporary, although general in effect.
(18)
That is special, although permanent in effect.
(19)
The purpose of which has been accomplished.
