ARTICLE IV. - TATTOO STUDIOS[4]
Footnotes:
--- (4) ---
State Law reference— Tattoo studios, O.C.G.A. § 31-40-1 et seq.

DIVISION 1. - GENERALLY

Sec. 8-167. - Definitions.
For the purpose of this article, the following words and phrases, when used herein, shall be construed as follows:
Tattoo means to mark or color the skin by pricking in coloring matter so as to form indelible marks or figures or by the production of scars; provided, however, the word "tattoo" shall not mean a tattoo placed upon the skin by a physician for medical identification purposes.
Tattoo artist means any person who actually performs the work of tattooing.
Tattoo establishment means any room or place where tattooing is practiced, or where the business of tattooing is conducted, or any part thereof.
Tattoo operator means any persons who controls, operates, conducts, or manages any tattoo establishment, whether actually performing the work of tattooing or not.
(Ord. of 11-20-2000, § 2)
Sec. 8-168. - Penalty for violation.
Any person violating the provisions of this article shall, upon conviction, be punished as provided in section 1-8. In addition to such fine or imprisonment, violation of this article shall also be grounds for immediate suspension or revocation of the license issued hereunder.
(Ord. of 11-20-2000, § 13)
Sec. 8-169. - Rules of evidence inapplicable.
The city council shall not be bound by the traditional rules of evidence in hearings conducted under this article. Rules of evidence as applied in an administrative hearing shall apply.
(Ord. of 11-20-2000, § 12)
Secs. 8-170—8-191. - Reserved.
DIVISION 2. - BUSINESS REGULATIONS

Sec. 8-192. - Rules and regulations.
(a)
Reasonable standards for health and safety. Pursuant to O.C.G.A. § 31-40-5, the department of health resources and county boards of health have the power to adopt and promulgate rules and regulations to ensure the protection of the public health in relation to regulating tattoo establishments. Such rules and regulations involve reasonable standards for health and safety of tattoo studios with regard to location and cleanliness of facilities, sterilization and Occupational Safety and Health Administration guidelines for the prevention and spread of infectious diseases by all personnel, informed consent by the person receiving a tattoo, procedures for ensuring adequate explanation to consumers of the proper subsequent care of a tattoo, and proper use and maintenance of tattoo equipment, including dyes and pigments.
(b)
Applicant responsibility. Each applicant granted a permit under the terms of this article shall be required to abide by all requirements as imposed by the department of health resources as well as the county board of health. Otherwise, the applicant's license shall be subject to revocation by the city.
(c)
Applicant additional requirements. In addition to those rules and regulations as required by the department of health resources and the county board of health, the applicant shall also be required to abide by the following additional requirements:
(1)
Health and sanitary requirements.
a.
The room in which tattooing is done shall have an area of not less than 100 square feet. The walls, floors, and ceiling shall have an impervious, smooth, and washable surface.
b.
A toilet shall be located in the establishment and shall be accessible at all times that the tattooing establishment is open for business. The lavatory shall be supplied with hot and cold running water, soap, and sanitary towels.
c.
All tables and other equipment shall be constructed of easily cleanable material, shall be painted or finished in a light color with a smooth washable finish, and shall be separated from the waiting customers or observers by a panel at least six feet or 1.83 meters high or by a door.
d.
The entire premises and equipment therein shall be maintained in a clean, sanitary condition and in good repair.
e.
The operator shall wash his hands thoroughly with soap and water before starting to tattoo; his hands shall be dried with individual, single-use towels. The operator shall wear a clean new pair of latex gloves, designed for use in surgery, for each customer.
f.
No tattooing shall be done on any skin surface that has a rash, pimples, boils, infections, or manifests any evidence of unhealthy conditions.
g.
No skin area shall be penetrated, abraded, or treated with chemicals for the purpose of removing, camouflaging, or altering any blemish, birthmark, scar, or tattoo.
h.
For shaving, safety razors with a new, single-service blade for each customer or patron or a straight edge razor may be used and shall be thoroughly cleaned and sterilized before use on each customer or patron.
i.
The area to be tattooed shall first be thoroughly washed for a period of two minutes with warm water to which has been added an antiseptic liquid soap. A sterile single-use sponge shall be used to scrub the area. After shaving and before tattooing is begun, a solution of 70 percent alcohol shall be applied to the area with a single-use sponge used and applied with a sterile instrument.
j.
Only petroleum jelly in collapsible metal or plastic tubes, or its equivalent as approved by the health officer, shall be used on the area to be tattooed and it shall be applied with sterile gauze.
k.
The use of styptic pencils, alum blocks, or other solid styptics to check the flow of blood is prohibited.
l.
Inquiry shall be made and anyone giving a history of recent jaundice or hepatitis shall not be tattooed.
m.
Single-service or individual containers of dye or ink shall be used for each patron and the container therefor shall be discarded immediately after completing work on a patron, and any dye in which the needles were dipped shall not be used on another person. Excess dye or ink shall be removed from the skin with an individual sterile sponge or a disposable paper tissue which shall be used only on one person and then immediately discarded. After completing work on any person, the tattooed area shall be washed with sterile gauze saturated with an antiseptic soap solution approved by the health officer or a 70 percent alcohol solution. The tattooed area shall be allowed to dry and petroleum jelly from a collapsible or plastic tube shall be applied, using sterile gauze. A sterile gauze dressing shall then be fastened to the tattooed area with adhesive.
(2)
Use and care of instruments.
a.
All clean, sterilized, and ready-to-use needles and instruments shall be kept in a closed glass or metal case or storage cabinet while not in use. Such cabinet shall be maintained in a sanitary manner at all times.
b.
A steam sterilizer (autoclave) shall be provided for sterilizing all needles and similar instruments before use on any customer, person, or patron. Alternate sterilizing procedures may only be used when specifically approved by a health officer. Sterilization of equipment will be accomplished by exposure to live steam for at least 30 minutes at a minimum pressure of 15 pounds per square inch, temperature of 240 degrees Fahrenheit or 116 degrees Celsius.
c.
The needles and instruments required to be sterilized shall be so used, handled, and temporarily placed during tattooing so that they will not be contaminated.
(3)
Records. Permanent records for each patron or customer shall be maintained by the licensee or operator of the establishment. Before the tattooing operation begins, the patron or customer shall be required personally to enter on a record form provided for such establishments the date, his name, address, age, serial number if a member of the armed forces, and his signature. Such records shall be maintained in the tattoo establishment and shall be available for examination by the health officer. Records shall be retained by the operator or licensee for a period of not less than two years. In the event of a change of ownership or closing of the business, all such records shall be made available to the health officer.
(4)
Infections. No person, customer, or patron having any skin infection or other disease of the skin or any communicable disease shall be tattooed. All infections resulting from the practice of tattooing which become known to the operator shall promptly be reported to health officer by the person owning or operating the tattooing establishment, and the infected client shall be referred to a physician.
(5)
Pigments and dyes. All pigments, dyes, colors, etc., used in tattooing shall be sterile and free from bacteria, virus particles, and noxious agents and substances. The pigments, dyes, and colors used from stock solutions for each customer or patron shall be placed in a single-service receptacle, and such receptacle and remaining solution shall be discarded after one use on each customer or patron.
(6)
Bandages and surgical dressings. All bandages and surgical dressings used in connection with the tattooing of a person shall be sterile.
(Ord. of 11-20-2000, § 4)
Sec. 8-193. - Restrictions upon persons eligible for tattoos.
No tattoo operator or tattoo artist shall tattoo any person who is under 18 years of age; any person who is under the influence of alcohol, drugs, or other stimulants or depressants; or any person of unsound mind.
(Ord. of 11-20-2000, § 5)
Sec. 8-194. - Location restriction of establishments.
No permit shall issue for the operation of a tattoo establishment or to any person engaged as a tattoo operator or tattoo artist in any area which is zoned for residential or historical district by appendix A, zoning.
(Ord. of 11-20-2000, § 6)
Sec. 8-195. - Inspection of premises.
The department of human resources, the county board of health, and city officials designated by the city are authorized and empowered to enforce compliance with this article and to enter upon and inspect the premises of a tattoo studio at any reasonable time and in a reasonable manner in an effort to ensure that the terms of this article are being properly obeyed.
(Ord. of 11-20-2000, § 8)
Sec. 8-196. - Unlawful operation declared nuisance.
Any tattoo establishment operated, conducted, or maintained contrary to the provisions of this article shall be and the same is hereby declared to be unlawful and public nuisance. The city may, in addition to or in lieu of prosecuting a criminal action hereunder, commence an action or actions, proceeding or proceedings for abatement, removal, or enjoinment thereof in the manner provided by law. It shall take such other steps and shall apply to such court or courts as may have jurisdiction to grant such relief as will abate or remove such adult entertainment and restrain and enjoin any person from operating, conducting, or maintaining an adult entertainment establishment contrary to the provisions of this chapter. In addition, violation of the provisions of this article shall be per se grounds for suspension or revocation of a license granted hereunder.
(Ord. of 11-20-2000, § 14)
Secs. 8-197—8-215. - Reserved.
DIVISION 3. - LICENSING PROVISIONS

Sec. 8-216. - Licensing requirements.
(a)
License required. No person shall operate a tattoo establishment or engage in the practice or business of tattooing as a tattoo operator or tattoo artist unless such person has first secured a license to do so from the city.
(b)
Certification of inspection. A condition precedent to the issuance of a permit by the city shall be for the applicant to obtain a certificate of inspection from the county board of health indicating the establishment has been inspected and is in compliance with the terms of this article as well as the requirements of the department of health resources.
(c)
Application fee. An application for a license shall be accompanied by a fee in the amount established in section 2-110; provided, however, that no application fee shall be required for renewal of an existing license. Any change of ownership shall require a new application and license with payment of fees therefor.
(d)
License fee. The annual license fee for engaging in the business of operating a tattoo establishment within the city shall be as established in section 2-110.
(e)
Issuance; nontransferability. All permits granted shall be issued in the name of the individual person applying therefor, shall contain the location of the tattoo establishment where such applicant shall operate, and shall not be transferable as to either artist, operator, or location.
(f)
Permits cumulative. The permits issued hereunder shall be cumulative and not in lieu of any business license issued by the city.
(g)
Artist's permit. Any person desiring to operate a tattoo establishment or desiring to operate as a tattoo operator or tattoo artist shall make application for a permit to the city. Such application to be on forms supplied by the city clerk. The minimum age of each applicant shall be at least 21 years of age. Fingerprints of all applicants shall be taken by the county sheriff's department. Applicants for such permits shall also furnish to the city two photographs showing a front and side picture of the full face of the applicant, sized 2½" × 2¾". Applicants for such permits shall present to the city a medical certificate from a medical doctor certifying that such person is sound physically, mentally, has good eyesight, and is not infected with a disease which can be communicated through openings in the human skin.
(Ord. of 11-20-2000, § 3)
Sec. 8-217. - Refusal and appeal.
If the city, following investigation of the applicant, deems that the applicant does not fulfill the requirements as set forth in this article, it shall notify the city clerk of such opinion, and within 45 days of the date of application provide copies of the investigation report to the city clerk. The city clerk shall within ten days notify the applicant by certified mail of such denial. Any applicant who is denied a permit may appeal such denial to the mayor and council by filing a written notice of appeal within ten days of the receipt of notice from the city clerk. A hearing before the mayor and city council shall be scheduled within 45 days of such notice.
(Ord. of 11-20-2000, § 9)
Sec. 8-218. - Revocation of license.
Any person who shall conduct a tattoo establishment or engage in the business as a tattoo operator or tattoo artist without first securing a permit therefor or who shall knowingly violate any of the sections of this article shall subject such a permit to revocation upon appropriate notice or hearing. Additionally, revocation of license or permit procured by the county health department shall, upon notice of hearing, constitute grounds for revocation of a permit issued by the city. An artist's or operator's permit shall be subject to revocation upon proof that the holder of such a permit has become infected with a disease which can be communicated through openings in the human skin.
(Ord. of 11-20-2000, § 7)
Sec. 8-219. - Appeal of revocation.
(a)
The city manager or his/her duly authorized representative shall be authorized to suspend or revoke a license previously granted herein. In the event the city manager or his/her duly authorized representative seeks to suspend or to revoke a license, the city manager or his/her duly authorized representative shall give written notification to the licensee of such action, and such notice shall contain a specification of the violation or violations and shall be served upon the licensee at least five business days prior to the notice of hearing. The licensee shall be given written notice of the time and place of the hearing.
(b)
The city manager or his/her duly authorized representative shall be authorized to suspend or revoke a license in the event of any one or more of the following:
(1)
A licensee gave false or misleading information in the original application process;
(2)
A licensee has knowingly allowed possession, use, or sale of controlled substances on the premises and/or knowingly allowed possession, use, or sale of controlled substances to a minor on the premises;
(3)
A licensee has knowingly allowed the violation of an ordinance of the city or a violation of any criminal law of the state to occur on the premises;
(4)
A licensee has violated any provision of this article;
(5)
A licensee has been convicted of any drug-related or alcohol-related crime or has been convicted of a crime associated with the regulation of tattoo establishments and artists; and
(6)
A licensee fails to pay any fee, license fee, fine, or other amount of money due to the city under this article or any other licensing ordinance of the city.
(c)
However, the licensee shall be authorized to continue his/her business operations until the date of the hearing scheduled in accordance with subsection (d) of this section. No licensee or other applicant may apply for a license during any period of suspension or revocation. In any hearing conducted by the city manager or his/her duly authorized representative, the chief shall consider, among other things, the severity of the allegations, the evidence submitted, and the testimony presented in making any decision on suspension, revocation and the duration of either.
(d)
In the event of a suspension or revocation by the city manager or his/her duly authorized representative, the licensee may appeal the decision of the city manager or his/her duly authorized representative to the city council by filing a written notice of appeal within five business days from the date of the decision of the city manager or his/her duly authorized representative. Thereafter, a hearing shall be scheduled before the city council within 30 days after the date of the notice of appeal by the applicant. The hearing may be continued at the request of the licensee/appellant. After hearing by the city council, the city council may take such action as it deems appropriate, including the upholding of the action of the city manager or his/her duly authorized representative or the imposition of such action as the city council may deem appropriate under the facts. The decision of the city council shall be final. Appeals from the decision of the city council shall be by writ of certiorari to the superior court of the county filed within 30 days of the final action of the mayor and city council. In the event the licensee does not file an appeal from any decision of the city manager or his/her duly authorized representative, as provided herein, the decision of such individual shall be final.
(Ord. of 11-20-2000, § 15; Ord. of 12-21-2015, § 3)
Sec. 8-220. - Appeal procedure.
The licensee shall within ten days after he has been notified of a diverse determination submit a notice of appeal to the city clerk. The notice of appeal shall be addressed to the council and shall specify the subject matter of the appeal, the date of any original and amended application or request, the date of the adverse decision or receipt of notice thereof, the basis of the appeal, the action requested of the council, and the name and address of the applicant. The clerk shall place the appeal on the agenda of the next regular council meeting occurring not less than five days nor more than 45 days after receipt of the application for council action. The city clerk shall give such notice of hearing as may be required by law.
(Ord. of 11-20-2000, § 10)
Sec. 8-221. - City council hearing.
Whenever the city clerk has scheduled an appeal before the city council, at the time and date set therefor, the council shall receive all relevant testimony and evidence from the licensee, from interested parties, and from the city staff. The city council may sustain, overrule, or modify the action complained of by the licensee. The action of the city council shall be final.
(Ord. of 11-20-2000, § 11)
Secs. 8-222—8-270. - Reserved.
