ARTICLE III. - GARBAGE SERVICE[4]

Footnotes:
--- (4) ---
Editor's note— An ordinance adopted April 4, 2005, enacted provisions designated as §§ 14-131—14-137 at the editor's discretion. Said ordinance did not specifically amend the Code.

Sec. 14-131. - General.
No garbage shall be collected within the City of Dawsonville without first obtaining a license to collect garbage, which may be obtained from the city clerk during normal business hours. Such license shall permit a garbage collector (whether an individual, corporation, partnership or other legal entity) to collect and dispose of garbage from commercial and residential customers located within the city in accordance with all state, federal and applicable city regulations.
(Ord. of 4-4-2005, § 1)
Sec. 14-132. - Right to access to garbage service collection facilities.
Each license granted to a garbage collector shall permit the city to have access to the licensee's garbage collection facilities for the purpose of conducting all actions necessary to inspect such facilities to ensure compliance with all applicable rules and regulations; and to ensure that such garbage collection practices do not pose a threat to the health, safety and welfare of the public. "Garbage collection facilities" shall include trash and recycling receptacles, dumpsters, transfer stations and other machinery or equipment necessary in the garbage collection process. All garbage collection, including common household and commercial trash and refuse, appliances or other large objects for disposal, shall be performed in a timely and responsible manner to prevent the spread of disease; to prevent a public nuisance; to avoid any unnecessary danger to children or the general public; and to prevent any serious threat to the public health and safety.
(Ord. of 4-4-2005, § 2)
Sec. 14-133. - Permits for disposal of garbage; collection routes.
As a precondition to obtaining a license, all garbage collectors shall provide to the city in writing proposed collection routes, including estimated times and days for collection, and a copy of all applicable state and federal permits and licenses to dispose of collected garbage, including the name and address of all disposal sites to be used.
(Ord. of 4-4-2005, § 3)
Sec. 14-134. - Regulatory fee.
(a)
Regulatory fee. A regulatory fee shall be required and collected in conjunction with obtaining a license from the city, consistent with the following provisions as set out in section 2-110 of this Code.
(b)
Renewal of licenses. The license provided for in this section shall be renewable annually upon payment of the regulatory fee. The regulatory fee for renewing a license shall be as provided in section 2-110 of this Code, and is due and payable annually on the tenth day of January, irrespective of the date of original issuance.
(1)
All regulatory fees not received by the 20th of January shall be subject to a ten percent penalty of the total amount due under this section.
(2)
If a license provided under this section is not renewed by payment of the regulatory fee established by this section by the first of February in any given year, the license shall be suspended, and the continuation of garbage collection services after the license is suspended shall be considered a violation of this section.
(Ord. of 4-4-2005, § 4; Ord. of 12-5-2005(3), § 2)
Sec. 14-135. - Enforcement.
This article shall be enforced by the city marshall, his or her designee or other person designated by the city to enforce city ordinances.
(Ord. of 4-4-2005, § 5)
Sec. 14-136. - Violations and penalties.
Violations of this article shall be punishable by the imposition of a $100.00 fine for the first offense. Repeat offenders may be punished by the imposition of fines up to $200.00 for each offense.
(Ord. of 4-4-2005, § 6)
Sec. 14-137. - Public nuisance.
Any garbage or other refuse for collection that is not properly collected and disposed of such that the city determines such to be a threat to the public health, safety and welfare shall be deemed a public nuisance, which shall be immediately abated and which abatement shall be enforced by the city pursuant to available remedies and procedures.
(Ord. of 4-4-2005, § 9)
Sec. 14-138. - Compliance with law.
No individual, partnership, firm, corporation or other entity shall engage in garbage disposal except in such a manner as to conform to and comply with this article and all applicable state and federal legislation, rules, regulations and orders.
(Ord. of 12-5-2005(3), § 3)
Sec. 14-139. - Indemnification.
The garbage handler shall, at its sole cost and expense, fully indemnify, defend, and hold harmless the city and its officers, boards, commissions, employees and agents against any and all claims, suits, actions, liability and judgments from third parties for damages which may be the result of willful, negligent (including the city's own negligence) or tortious conduct or operations arising out of the business of collection, transportation, and disposal of garbage, whether or not the action or omission complained of is authorized, allowed, or prohibited by this article.
(Ord. of 12-5-2005(3), § 4)
Sec. 14-140. - Regulation of the disposal of yard trimmings and similar materials.
(a)
For the purpose of this article, yard trimmings are defined as leaves, brush, grass clippings, shrub and tree prunings, discarded Christmas trees, nursery and greenhouse residuals and vegetative matter resulting from landscaping and land-clearing operations other than mining, agricultural and silvicultural activities.
(b)
Yard trimming disposal shall be restricted as follows:
(1)
Yard trimmings shall not be placed in or mixed with municipal solid waste, except at landfills restricted to construction or demolition waste;
(2)
Yard trimmings shall not be disposed of at municipal solid waste disposal facilities having liners and lechate collection systems or requiring vertical expansion within its jurisdiction;
(3)
Before collection, yard trimmings shall be separated and stored for collection in a separate container from all other municipal solid waste.
(4)
To the maximum extent feasible, yard trimmings must be sorted and stockpiled, chipped, composed, used as mulch or otherwise beneficially reused or recycled or delivered to a facility which will make such beneficial use of the yard trimmings.
(c)
Each resident of the City of Dawsonville is required to dispose of yard trimmings in accordance with the provisions of this article.
(d)
Nothing in this article shall be construed so as to require a garbage collector licensed by the City of Dawsonville to collect yard trimmings for disposal.
(e)
Nothing in this article shall be construed so as to require the City of Dawsonville to provide for the collection of, or a location for, the disposal of yard trimmings.
(f)
Nothing in this article shall be construed so as to prevent an occupier of land from mulching or composting yard trimmings for use on the premises.
(Ord. of 12-5-2005(3), § 5)
Sec. 14-141. - Service charge for garbage collection.
(a)
For garbage service collection, each address for which garbage service is provided pursuant to the terms of this article shall be assessed a monthly service charge.
(b)
In the event that multiple addresses deposit their garbage into a single collection location, a separate service charge shall be assessed on each of those addresses, even if only a single garbage collection pick-up is made for all of them.
(c)
The service charge assessed pursuant to this section shall be based upon the cost to the City of Dawsonville to provide this service to its citizens, in the following manner:
(1)
Baseline charge: The baseline upon which the service charge is determined shall be the cost per address charged by the garbage collection contractor awarded the contract to collect garbage in the City of Dawsonville. In the event that the garbage collection contractor awarded the contract to collect garbage in the City of Dawsonville charges the city a flat fee, not based upon the number of addresses receiving the service, then the baseline upon which the service charge is to be determined shall be the cost charged by the garbage collection contractor, divided by the number of addresses receiving the service.
(2)
Calculation of service charge: The service charge shall be the baseline referred to in subsection (c)(1) above, plus an additional fee or charge in an amount, to be determined and approved by the city council annually, to cover the administrative and capital costs incurred by the city in providing such garbage collection services. The total service charge amount (baseline plus administrative/capital cost fee) shall be assessed and collected on a monthly basis from each address for which garbage service is provided pursuant to the terms of this article.
(d)
The service charge provided for in this section may be incorporated into the water bill for those addresses which receive water and garbage service from the city. In the event that an address which receives garbage service from the city does not also receive water service from the city, the garbage service fee shall be assessed by separate invoice.
(Ord. of 12-5-2005(3), § 6; Ord. of 2-4-2019, § 1)
Sec. 14-142. - Security deposit for garbage service only.
A person or entity seeking garbage service from the city who does not have an existing water and/or sewer service from the city shall make an application in person for service at City Hall. An applicant seeking garbage service shall make a cash security deposit in an amount as established in section 2-110.
Secs. 14-143—14-170. - Reserved.
