Chapter 107 - STORMWATER MANAGEMENT
ARTICLE I. - GENERAL PROVISIONS

Sec. 107-1. - Purpose and intent.
The purpose of this chapter is to protect, maintain and enhance the public health, safety, environment and general welfare by establishing minimum requirements and procedures to control the adverse effects of increased post-development stormwater runoff and nonpoint source pollution associated with new development and redevelopment. It has been determined that proper management of post-development stormwater runoff will minimize damage to public and private property and infrastructure, safeguard the public health, safety, environment and general welfare of the public, and protect water and aquatic resources. This ordinance seeks to meet that purpose through the following objectives:
(1)
Establish decision-making processes surrounding land development activities that protect the integrity of the watershed and preserve the health of water resources;
(2)
Require that new development and redevelopment maintain the pre-development hydrologic response in their post-development state as nearly as practicable in order to reduce flooding, streambank erosion, nonpoint source pollution and increases in stream temperature, and maintain the integrity of stream channels and aquatic habitats;
(3)
Establish minimum post-development stormwater management standards and design criteria for the regulation and control of stormwater runoff quantity and quality;
(4)
Establish design and application criteria for the construction and use of structural stormwater control facilities that can be used to meet the minimum post-development stormwater management standards;
(5)
Encourage the use of nonstructural stormwater management and stormwater better site design practices, such as reducing impervious cover and the preservation of greenspace and other natural areas, to the maximum extent practicable. Coordinate site design plans, which include greenspace, with the county's greenspace protection plan;
(6)
Establish provisions for the long-term responsibility for and maintenance of structural stormwater control facilities and nonstructural stormwater management practices to ensure that they continue to function as designed, are maintained, and pose no threat to public safety; and
(7)
Establish administrative procedures for the submission, review, approval and disapproval of stormwater management plans, and for the inspection of approved active projects, and long-term follow up.
(Ord. of 2-6-2006, § 1.1)
Sec. 107-2. - Applicability.
(a)
This chapter shall be applicable to all land development, including, but not limited to, site plan applications, subdivision applications, and grading applications, unless exempt pursuant to subsection (b) below. These standards apply to any new development or redevelopment site that meets one or more of the following criteria:
(1)
New development that involves the creation of 5,000 square feet or more of impervious cover, or that involves other land development activities of one acre or more;
(2)
Redevelopment that includes the creation, addition or replacement of 5,000 square feet or more of impervious cover, or that involves other land development activity of one acre or more;
(3)
Any new development or redevelopment, regardless of size, that is defined by the planning and zoning administrator to be a hotspot land use; or
(4)
Land development activities that are smaller than the minimum applicability criteria set forth in items subsections (1) and (2) above if such activities are part of a larger common plan of development, even though multiple, separate and distinct land development activities may take place at different times on different schedules.
(b)
The following activities are exempt from this chapter:
(1)
Individual single-family or duplex residential lots that are not part of a subdivision or phased development project;
(2)
Additions or modifications to existing single-family or duplex residential structures;
(3)
Agricultural or silvicultural land management activities within areas zoned for these activities;
(4)
Repairs to any stormwater management facility or practice deemed necessary by the planning and zoning administrator;
(5)
Single-family or duplex residential lots platted prior to the adoption of this ordinance, whether or not they are part of a subdivision or phased development project; and
(6)
Redevelopment that constitutes the replacement of the original square footage of impervious cover and original acreage of other land development activity when: (1) the original development is wholly or partially lost due to natural disaster or other acts of God occurring after the effective date of this chapter, and (2) the original development included more than 5,000 square feet of impervious cover or other land development activity of one acre or more.
(c)
Additional requirements apply for all parcels located within areas identified as priority areas. See article V herein.
(Ord. of 2-6-2006, § 1.2)
Sec. 107-3. - Designation of chapter administrator.
The planning and zoning administrator or his designee is hereby appointed to administer and implement the provisions of this chapter.
(Ord. of 2-6-2006, § 1.3)
Sec. 107-4. - Compatibility with other regulations.
This chapter is not intended to modify or repeal any other ordinance, rule, regulation or other provision of law. The requirements of this chapter are in addition to the requirements of any other ordinance, rule, regulation or other provision of law, and where any provision of this chapter imposes restrictions different from those imposed by any other ordinance, rule, regulation or other provision of law, whichever provision is more restrictive or imposes higher protective standards for human health or the environment shall control.
(Ord. of 2-6-2006, § 1.4)
Sec. 107-5. - Severability.
If the provisions of any section, subsection, paragraph, subdivision or clause of this chapter shall be adjudged invalid by a court of competent jurisdiction, such judgment shall not affect or invalidate the remainder of any section, subsection, paragraph, subdivision or clause of this chapter.
(Ord. of 2-6-2006, § 1.5)
Sec. 107-6. - Stormwater management manual.
The city will utilize the policy, criteria and information including technical specifications and standards in the latest edition of the Georgia Stormwater Management Manual and any relevant local addenda for the proper implementation of the requirements of this chapter. The manual may be updated and expanded periodically, based on improvements in science, engineering, monitoring and local maintenance experience.
(Ord. of 2-6-2006, § 1.6)
Secs. 107-7—107-40. - Reserved.
ARTICLE II. - DEFINITIONS

Sec. 107-41. - Definitions.
Applicant means a person submitting a post-development stormwater management application and plan for approval.
Accidental discharge means a discharge prohibited by this article which occurs by chance and without planning or thought prior to occurrence.
Better site design means site design approaches and techniques that can reduce a site's impact on the watershed and can provide for nonstructural stormwater management. "Better site design" includes conserving and protecting natural areas and greenspace, reducing impervious cover, and using natural features for stormwater management.
Channel means a natural or artificial watercourse with a definite bed and banks that conducts continuously or periodically flowing water.
City separate storm sewer system means any facility designed or used for collecting and/or conveying stormwater, including but not limited to any roads with drainage systems, highways, city streets, curbs, gutters, inlets, catch basins, piped storm drains, pumping facilities, structural stormwater controls, ditches, swales, natural and man-made or altered drainage channels, reservoirs, and other drainage structures, and which is:
(1)
Owned or maintained by the city;
(2)
Not a combined sewer; and
(3)
Not part of a publicly-owned treatment works.
Clean water act means the Federal Water Pollution Control Act (33 U.S.C. § 1251 et seq.), and any subsequent amendments thereto.
Conservation easement means an agreement between a land owner and the city or other government agency or land trust that permanently protects open space or greenspace on the owner's land by limiting the amount and type of development that can take place, but continues to leave the remainder of the fee interest in private ownership.
Construction activity means activities subject to the Georgia Erosion and Sedimentation Control Act, O.C.G.A. § 12-7-1 et seq. or NPDES General Construction Permits. These include construction projects resulting in land disturbance. Such activities include but are not limited to clearing and grubbing, grading, excavating, and demolition.
Detention means the temporary storage of stormwater runoff in a stormwater management facility for the purpose of controlling the peak discharge.
Detention facility means a detention basin or structure designed for the detention of stormwater runoff and gradual release of stored water at controlled rates.
Developer means a person who undertakes land development activities.
Development means a land development or land development project.
Drainage easement means an easement appurtenant or attached to a tract or parcel of land allowing the owner of adjacent tracts or other persons to discharge stormwater runoff onto the tract or parcel of land subject to the drainage easement.
Erosion and sedimentation control plan means a plan that is designed to minimize the accelerated erosion and sediment runoff at a site during land disturbance activities.
Evapotranspiration means the loss of water to the atmosphere by both evaporation and transpiration, which is the evaporation of water by plants.
Extended detention means the detention of stormwater runoff for an extended period, typically 24 hours or greater.
Extreme flood protection means measures taken to prevent adverse impacts from large low-frequency storm events with a return frequency of 100 years or more.
Flooding means a volume of surface water that is too great to be confined within the banks or walls of a conveyance or stream channel and that overflows onto adjacent lands.
Greenspace or open space means permanently protected areas of the site that are preserved in a natural state.
Hotspot means an area where the use of the land has the potential to generate highly contaminated runoff, with concentrations of pollutants in excess of those typically found in stormwater. Hotspots may be permanent or temporary. Hotspots include, but are not limited to, fueling stations (including temporary fueling stations during construction) and golf courses.
Hydrologic soil group (HSG) means a natural resource conservation service classification system in which soils are categorized into four runoff potential groups. The groups range from group A soils, with high permeability and little runoff produced, to group D soils, which have low permeability rates and produce much more runoff.
Illicit discharge means any direct or indirect non-stormwater discharge to the city separate storm sewer system, except as exempted in section 107-202 of this article.
Illegal connection means either of the following:
(1)
Any pipe, open channel, drain or conveyance, whether on the surface or subsurface, which allows an illicit discharge to enter the storm drain system including but not limited to any conveyances which allow any non-stormwater discharge including sewage, process wastewater, and wash water to enter the storm drain system, regardless of whether such pipe, open channel, drain or conveyance has been previously allowed, permitted, or approved by an authorized enforcement agency; or
(2)
Any pipe, open channel, drain or conveyance connected to the city separate storm sewer system which has not been documented in plans, maps, or equivalent records and approved by an authorized enforcement agency.
Impervious cover means a surface composed of any material that greatly impedes or prevents the natural infiltration of water into soil. Impervious surfaces include, but are not limited to, rooftops, buildings, streets and roads, except those designed specifically to allow infiltration.
Industrial activity means activities subject to NPDES industrial permits as defined in 40 C.F.R. § 122.26(b)(14).
Industrial stormwater permit means a National Pollutant Discharge Elimination System (NPDES) permit issued to an industry or group of industries which regulates the pollutant levels associated with industrial stormwater discharges or specifies on-site pollution control strategies.
Infiltration means the process of percolating stormwater runoff into the subsoil.
Inspection and maintenance agreement and covenant means a written agreement and covenant providing for the long-term inspection and maintenance of stormwater management facilities and practices on a site or with respect to a land development project, which when properly recorded in the deed records constitutes a restriction on the title to a site or other land involved in a land development project.
Jurisdictional wetland means an area that is inundated or saturated by surface water or groundwater at a frequency and duration sufficient to support a prevalence of vegetation typically adapted for life in saturated soil conditions, commonly known as hydrophytic vegetation.
Land development means any land change, including, but not limited to, clearing, digging, grubbing, stripping, removal of vegetation, dredging, grading, excavating, transporting and filling of land, construction, paving, and any other installation of impervious cover.
Land development activities means those actions or activities which comprise, facilitate or result in land development.
Land development project means a discrete land development undertaking.
National Pollutant Discharge Elimination System (NPDES) stormwater discharge permit means a permit issued by the Georgia EPD under authority delegated pursuant to 33 U.S.C. § 1342(b) that authorizes the discharge of pollutants to waters of the United States, whether the permit is applicable on an individual, group, or general area-wide basis.
New development means a land development activity on a previously undeveloped site.
Non-stormwater discharge means any discharge to the storm drain system that is not composed entirely of stormwater.
Nonpoint source pollution means a form of water pollution that does not originate from a discrete point such as a sewage treatment plant or industrial discharge, but involves the transport of pollutants such as sediment, fertilizers, pesticides, heavy metals, oil, grease, bacteria, organic materials and other contaminants from land to surface water and groundwater via mechanisms such as precipitation, stormwater runoff, and leaching. Nonpoint source pollution is a by-product of land use practices such as agricultural, silvicultural, mining, construction, subsurface disposal and urban runoff sources.
Nonstructural stormwater management practice or nonstructural practice means any natural or planted vegetation or other nonstructural component of the stormwater management plan that provides for or enhances stormwater quantity and/or quality control or other stormwater management benefits, and includes, but is not limited to, riparian buffers, open and greenspace areas, overland flow filtration areas, natural depressions, and vegetated channels.
Off-site facility means a stormwater management facility located outside the boundaries of the site.
On-site facility means a stormwater management facility located within the boundaries of the site.
Overbank flood protection means measures taken to prevent an increase in the frequency and magnitude of out-of-bank flooding (i.e. flow events that exceed the capacity of the channel and enter the floodplain), and that are intended to protect downstream properties from flooding for the two-year through 25-year frequency storm events.
Owner means the legal or beneficial owner of a site, including but not limited to, a mortgagee or vendee in possession, receiver, executor, trustee, lessee or other person, firm or corporation in control of the site.
Permit means the permit issued by the city to the applicant which is required for undertaking any land development activity.
Person means, except to the extent exempted from this chapter, any individual, partnership, firm, association, joint venture, public or private corporation, trust, estate, commission, board, public or private institution, utility, cooperative, city, county or other political subdivision of the state, any interstate body or any other legal entity, in the singular or plural as the case may be under this Code.
Pollutant means anything which causes or contributes to pollution. Pollutants may include, but are not limited to: paints, varnishes, and solvents; petroleum hydrocarbons; automotive fluids; cooking grease; detergents (biodegradable or otherwise); degreasers; cleaning chemicals; non-hazardous liquid and solid wastes and yard wastes; refuse, rubbish, garbage, litter, or other discarded or abandoned objects and accumulations, so that same may cause or contribute to pollution; floatables; pesticides, herbicides, and fertilizers; liquid and solid wastes; sewage, fecal coliform and pathogens; dissolved and particulate metals; animal wastes; wastes and residues that result from constructing a building or structure; concrete and cement; and noxious or offensive matter of any kind.
Pollution means the contamination or other alteration of any water's physical, chemical or biological properties by the addition of any constituent and includes but is not limited to, a change in temperature, taste, color, turbidity, or odor of such waters, or the discharge of any liquid, gaseous, solid, radioactive, or other substance into any such waters as will or is likely to create a nuisance or render such waters harmful, detrimental or injurious to the public health, safety, welfare, or environment, or to domestic, commercial, industrial, agricultural, recreational, or other legitimate beneficial uses, or to livestock, wild animals, birds, fish or other aquatic life.
Post-development refers to the time period, or the conditions that may reasonably be expected or anticipated to exist, after completion of the land development activity on a site as the context may require.
Pre-development refers to the time period, or the conditions that exist, on a site prior to the commencement of a land development project and at the time that plans for the land development of a site are approved by the plan approving authority. Where phased development or plan approval occurs (preliminary grading, roads and utilities, etc.), the existing conditions at the time prior to the first item being approved or permitted shall establish pre-development conditions.
Premises means any building, lot, parcel of land, or portion of land whether improved or unimproved including adjacent sidewalks and parking strips.
Project means a land development project.
Redevelopment means a land development project on a previously developed site, but excludes ordinary maintenance activities, remodeling of existing buildings, resurfacing of paved areas, and exterior changes or improvements which do not materially increase or concentrate stormwater runoff, or cause additional nonpoint source pollution.
Regional stormwater management facility or regional facility means stormwater management facilities designed to control stormwater runoff from multiple properties, where the owners or developers of the individual properties may assist in the financing of the facility, and the requirement for on-site controls is either eliminated or reduced.
Runoff means stormwater runoff.
Site means the parcel of land being developed, or the portion thereof on which the land development project is located.
State waters means any and all rivers, streams, creeks, branches, lakes, reservoirs, ponds, drainage systems, springs, wells, and other bodies of surface and subsurface water, natural or artificial, lying within or forming a part of the boundaries of the State of Georgia which are not entirely confined and retained completely upon the property of a single person.
Stormwater best management practice (BMP) means structural and nonstructural practices that control stormwater runoff and provide for or enhance stormwater quantity and/or quality control or other stormwater management benefits.
Stormwater management means the collection, conveyance, storage, treatment and disposal of stormwater runoff in a manner intended to prevent increased flood damage, streambank channel erosion, habitat degradation and water quality degradation, and to enhance and promote the public health, safety and general welfare.
Stormwater management facility means any infrastructure that controls or conveys stormwater runoff.
Stormwater management measure means any stormwater management facility or nonstructural stormwater practice.
Stormwater management plan means a document describing how existing runoff characteristics will be affected by a land development project and containing measures for complying with the provisions of this article.
Stormwater management system means the entire set of structural and nonstructural stormwater management facilities and practices that are used to capture, convey and control the quantity and quality of the stormwater runoff from a site.
Stormwater retrofit means a stormwater management practice designed for a currently developed site that previously had either no stormwater management practice in place or a practice inadequate to meet the stormwater management requirements of the site.
Stormwater runoff or stormwater means any surface flow, runoff, and drainage consisting entirely of water from any form of natural precipitation and resulting from such precipitation.
Structural stormwater control means a structural stormwater management facility or device that controls stormwater runoff and changes the characteristics of that runoff including, but not limited to, the quantity and quality, the period of release or the velocity of flow of such runoff.
Subdivision means the division of a tract or parcel of land resulting in one or more new lots or building sites for the purpose, whether immediately or in the future, of sale, other transfer of ownership or land development, and includes divisions of land resulting from or made in connection with the layout or development of a new street or roadway or a change in an existing street or roadway.
(Ord. of 2-6-2006, § 2.1; Ord. of 12-17-2018, § 3; Ord. No. 05-2021 , § 1, 11-15-2021)
Secs. 107-42—107-50. - Reserved.
ARTICLE III. - PERMIT PROCEDURES AND REQUIREMENTS

Sec. 107-51. - Permit application requirements.
No owner or developer shall perform any land development activities without first meeting the requirements of this chapter prior to commencing the proposed activity. Unless specifically exempted by this chapter, any owner or developer proposing a land development activity shall submit to the city a permit application on a form provided by the planning and zoning administrator for that purpose.
Unless otherwise exempted by this chapter, the following items shall accompany a permit application in order to be considered:
(1)
Stormwater concept plan and consultation meeting certification in accordance with section 107-52;
(2)
Stormwater management plan in accordance with section 107-53;
(3)
Inspection and maintenance agreement and covenant in accordance with section 107-54, if applicable;
(4)
Performance bond in accordance with section 107-55 and the city's utility dedication ordinance; and
(5)
Permit application and plan review fees in accordance with section 2-110.
(Ord. of 2-6-2006, § 3.1; Ord. of 8-19-2019, § 13)
Sec. 107-52. - Stormwater concept plan and consultation meeting.
Before any stormwater management permit application is submitted, it is recommended that the landowner or developer meet with the planning and zoning administrator or his designee for a consultation meeting on a preliminary concept plan for the post-development stormwater management system to be utilized in the proposed land development project. This consultation meeting shall take place at the time of the preliminary plan of subdivision or other early step in the development process. The purpose of this meeting is to discuss the post-development stormwater management measures necessary for the proposed project, as well as to discuss and assess constraints, opportunities and potential ideas for stormwater management designs before the formal site design engineering is commenced.
To accomplish this goal the following information shall be included in the concept plan which shall be submitted in advance of the meeting:
(1)
Existing conditions/proposed site plans: Existing conditions and proposed site layout sketch plans, which illustrate at a minimum: existing and proposed topography; perennial and intermittent streams; mapping of predominant soils from soil surveys (when available); boundaries of existing predominant vegetation and proposed limits of clearing and grading; and location of existing and proposed roads, buildings, parking areas, existing easements, and other impervious surfaces.
(2)
Natural resources inventory: A written or graphic inventory of the natural resources at the site and surrounding area as it exists prior to the commencement of the project. This description should include a discussion of soil conditions, forest cover, topography, wetlands, and other native vegetative areas on the site, as well as the location and boundaries of other natural feature protection and conservation areas such as wetlands, lakes, ponds, floodplains, stream buffers and other setbacks (e.g., drinking water well setbacks, septic setbacks, etc.). Particular attention should be paid to environmentally sensitive features that provide particular opportunities or constraints for development.
(3)
Stormwater management system concept plan: A written or graphic concept plan of the proposed post-development stormwater management system including: preliminary selection and location of proposed structural stormwater controls; a completed site design checklist for developers; location of existing and proposed conveyance systems such as grass channels, swales, and storm drains; flow paths; location of floodplain/floodway limits; relationship of site to upstream and downstream properties and drainages; and preliminary location of proposed stream channel modifications, such as bridge or culvert crossings.
Local watershed plans, the city greenspace projection plan (if applicable), and any relevant resource protection plans will be consulted in the discussion of the concept plan. If necessary, a follow-up meeting may be held to verify the post-development stormwater management measures necessary for the proposed project before formal design commences.
(Ord. of 2-6-2006, § 3.2)
Sec. 107-53. - Stormwater management plan requirements.
The stormwater management plan shall detail how post-development stormwater runoff will be controlled or managed and how the proposed project will meet the requirements of this chapter, including the performance criteria set forth in articles IV and V below.
This plan shall be in accordance with the criteria established in this section and must be submitted with the stamp and signature of a professional engineer (PE) licensed in the State of Georgia, who must verify that the design of all stormwater management facilities and practices meet the submittal requirements outlined in the submittal checklist(s) found in the Georgia Stormwater Management Manual.
The stormwater management plan must ensure that the requirements and criteria in this ordinance are being complied with and that opportunities are being taken to minimize adverse post-development stormwater runoff impacts from the development. The plan shall consist of maps, narrative, and supporting design calculations (hydrologic and hydraulic) for the proposed stormwater management system. The plan shall include all of the information required in the stormwater management site plan checklist found in the Georgia Stormwater Management Manual. This includes:
(1)
Common address and legal description of site.
(2)
Vicinity map.
(3)
Existing conditions hydrologic analysis. The existing condition hydrologic analysis for stormwater runoff rates, volumes, and velocities, which shall include: a topographic map of existing site conditions with the drainage basin boundaries indicated; acreage, soil types and land cover of areas for each sub-basin affected by the project; all perennial and intermittent streams and other surface water features; all existing stormwater conveyances and structural control facilities; direction of flow and exits from the site; analysis of runoff provided by off-site areas upstream of the project site; and methodologies, assumptions, site parameters and supporting design calculations used in analyzing the existing conditions site hydrology. For redevelopment sites, predevelopment conditions shall be modeled using the established guidelines for the portion of the site undergoing land development activities.
(4)
Post-development hydrologic analysis. The post-development hydrologic analysis for stormwater runoff rates, volumes, and velocities, which shall include: a topographic map of developed site conditions with the post-development drainage basin boundaries indicated; total area of post-development impervious surfaces and other land cover areas for each sub-basin affected by the project; calculations for determining the runoff volumes that need to be addressed for each sub-basin for the development project to meet the post-development stormwater management performance criteria in article IV; location and boundaries of proposed natural feature protection and conservation areas; documentation and calculations for any applicable site design credits that are being utilized; methodologies, assumptions, site parameters and supporting design calculations used in analyzing the existing conditions site hydrology. If the land development activity on a redevelopment site constitutes more than 50 percent of the site area for the entire site, then the performance criteria in article IV must be met for the stormwater runoff from the entire site.
(5)
Stormwater management system. The description, scaled drawings and design calculations for the proposed post-development stormwater management system, which shall include: A map and/or drawing or sketch of the stormwater management facilities, including the location of nonstructural site design features and the placement of existing and proposed structural stormwater controls, including design water surface elevations, storage volumes available from zero to maximum head, location of inlet and outlets, location of bypass and discharge systems, and all orifice/restrictor sizes; a narrative describing how the selected structural stormwater controls will be appropriate and effective; cross-section and profile drawings and design details for each of the structural stormwater controls in the system, including supporting calculations to show that the facility is designed according to the applicable design criteria; a hydrologic and hydraulic analysis of the stormwater management system for all applicable design storms (including stage-storage or outlet rating curves, and inflow and outflow hydrographs); documentation and supporting calculations to show that the stormwater management system adequately meets the post-development stormwater management performance criteria in article IV; drawings, design calculations, elevations and hydraulic grade lines for all existing and proposed stormwater conveyance elements including stormwater drains, pipes, culverts, catch basins, channels, swales and areas of overland flow; and where applicable, a narrative describing how the stormwater management system corresponds with any watershed protection plans and/or local greenspace protection plan.
(6)
Post-development downstream analysis. A downstream peak flow analysis which includes the assumptions, results and supporting calculations to show safe passage of post-development design flows downstream. The analysis of downstream conditions in the report shall address each and every point or area along the project site's boundaries at which runoff will exit the property. The analysis shall focus on the portion of the drainage channel or watercourse immediately downstream from the project. This area shall extend downstream from the project to a point in the drainage basin where the project area is ten percent of the total basin area. In calculating runoff volumes and discharge rates, consideration may need to be given to any planned future upstream land use changes. The analysis shall be in accordance with the Georgia Stormwater Management Manual.
(7)
Construction-phase erosion and sedimentation control plan. An erosion and sedimentation control plan in accordance with the Georgia Erosion and Sedimentation Control Act or NPDES permit for construction activities. The plan shall also include information on the sequence/phasing of construction and temporary stabilization measures and temporary structures that will be converted into permanent stormwater controls.
(8)
Landscaping and greenspace plan. A detailed landscaping and vegetation plan describing the woody and herbaceous vegetation that will be used within and adjacent to stormwater management facilities and practices. The landscaping plan must also include: the arrangement of planted areas, natural and greenspace areas and other landscaped features on the site plan; information necessary to construct the landscaping elements shown on the plan drawings; descriptions and standards for the methods, materials and vegetation that are to be used in the construction; density of plantings; descriptions of the stabilization and management techniques used to establish vegetation; and a description of who will be responsible for ongoing maintenance of vegetation for the stormwater management facility and what practices will be employed to ensure that adequate vegetative cover is preserved.
(9)
Operations and maintenance plan. Detailed description of ongoing operations and maintenance procedures for stormwater management facilities and practices to ensure their continued function as designed and constructed or preserved. These plans will identify the parts or components of a stormwater management facility or practice that need to be regularly or periodically inspected and maintained, and the equipment and skills or training necessary. The plan shall include an inspection and maintenance schedule, maintenance tasks, responsible parties for maintenance, funding, and access and safety issues. Provisions for the periodic review and evaluation of the effectiveness of the maintenance program and the need for revisions or additional maintenance procedures shall be included in the plan.
(10)
Maintenance access easements. The applicant must ensure access from public right-of-way to stormwater management facilities and practices requiring regular maintenance at the site for the purpose of inspection and repair by securing all the maintenance access easements needed on a permanent basis. Such access shall be sufficient for all necessary equipment for maintenance activities. Upon final inspection and approval, a plat or document indicating that such easements exist shall be recorded and shall remain in effect even with the transfer of title of the property.
(11)
Inspection and maintenance agreement and covenant. Unless an on-site stormwater management facility or practice is dedicated to and accepted by the city as provided in section 107-54 below, the applicant must execute an easement and an inspection and maintenance agreement and covenant binding on all subsequent owners of land served by an on-site stormwater management facility or practice in accordance section 107-54.
(12)
Evidence of acquisition of applicable local and non-local permits. The applicant shall certify and provide documentation to the city that all other applicable environmental permits have been acquired for the site prior to approval of the stormwater management plan.
(Ord. of 2-6-2006, § 3.3)
Sec. 107-54. - Stormwater management inspection and maintenance agreement and covenant.
Prior to the issuance of any permit for a land development activity requiring a stormwater management facility or practice hereunder, the applicant or owner of the site must, unless an on-site stormwater management facility or practice is dedicated to and accepted by the city, execute an inspection and maintenance agreement and covenant that shall be binding on all subsequent owners of the site.
The inspection and maintenance agreement and covenant, if applicable, must be approved by the city prior to plan approval, and recorded in the deed records upon final plat approval.
The inspection and maintenance agreement and covenant shall identify by name or official title the person(s) responsible for carrying out the inspection and maintenance. Responsibility for the operation and maintenance of the stormwater management facility or practice, unless assumed by a governmental agency, shall remain with the property owner and shall pass to any successor owner. If portions of the land are sold or otherwise transferred, legally binding arrangements shall be made to pass the inspection and maintenance responsibility to the appropriate successors in title. These arrangements shall designate for each portion of the site, the person to be permanently responsible for its inspection and maintenance.
As part of the inspection and maintenance agreement and covenant, a schedule shall be developed for when and how often routine inspection and maintenance will occur to ensure proper function of the stormwater management facility or practice. The agreement shall also include plans for annual inspections to ensure proper performance of the facility between scheduled maintenance and shall also include remedies for the default thereof.
In addition to enforcing the terms of the inspection and maintenance agreement and covenant, the city may also enforce all of the provisions for ongoing inspection and maintenance in article VII of this chapter.
(Ord. of 2-6-2006, § 3.4)
Sec. 107-55. - Performance bonds.
The city shall require any person falling under the requirements of this chapter to comply with the Utility Dedication Ordinance, which is part of the Development Code of the City of Dawsonville.
(Ord. of 2-6-2006, § 3.5)
Sec. 107-56. - Application procedure.
(a)
Applications for land development permits shall be filed with the planning and zoning administrator.
(b)
Permit applications shall include the items set forth in section 107-51 above (two copies of the stormwater management plan and the inspection maintenance agreement and covenant, if applicable, shall be included).
(c)
The planning and zoning administrator or his designee shall inform the applicant whether the application, stormwater management plan and inspection and maintenance agreement and covenant are approved or disapproved.
(d)
If the permit application, stormwater management plan or inspection and maintenance agreement and covenant are disapproved, the planning and zoning administrator shall notify the applicant of such fact in writing. The applicant may then revise any item not meeting the requirements hereof and resubmit the same, in which event subsection (c) above and this subparagraph shall apply to such re-submittal.
(e)
Upon a finding by the planning and zoning administrator that the permit application, stormwater management plan and inspection and maintenance agreement and covenant, if applicable, meet the requirements of this chapter, the city may issue a permit for the land development project, provided all other legal requirements for the issuance of such permit have been met.
(f)
Notwithstanding the issuance of the permit, in conducting the land development project, the applicant or other responsible person shall be subject to the following requirements:
(1)
The applicant shall comply with all applicable requirements of the approved plan and this chapter and shall certify that all land clearing, construction, land development and drainage will be done according to the approved plan;
(2)
The land development project shall be conducted only within the area specified in the approved plan;
(3)
The city shall be allowed to conduct periodic inspections of the project;
(4)
No changes may be made to an approved plan without review and written approval by the planning and zoning administrator; and
(5)
Upon completion of the project, the applicant or other responsible person shall submit the engineer's report and certificate and as-built plans required by section 107-162.
(Ord. of 2-6-2006, § 3.6)
Sec. 107-57. - Permit application and plan review fees.
A non-refundable permit application and plan review fees will be collected at the time the stormwater management plan is submitted. All of the monetary contributions shall be credited to a local budgetary category to support local plan review, administration and management of the permitting process, and inspection of all projects subject to this chapter. The fee shall be as established and amended by mayor and city council from time to time and set forth in section 2-110.
(Ord. of 2-6-2006, § 3.7; Ord. of 8-19-2019, § 14)
Sec. 107-58. - Modifications for off-site facilities.
The stormwater management plan for each land development project shall provide for stormwater management measures located on the site of the project, unless provisions are made to manage stormwater by an off-site or regional facility. The off-site or regional facility must be located on property legally dedicated for the purpose, must be designed and adequately sized to provide a level of stormwater quantity and quality control that is equal to or greater than that which would be afforded by on-site practices and there must be a legally-obligated entity responsible for long-term operation and maintenance of the off-site or regional stormwater facility. In addition, on-site measures shall be implemented, where necessary, to protect upstream and downstream properties and drainage channels from the site to the off-site facility.
A stormwater management plan must be submitted to the planning and zoning administrator which shows the adequacy of the off-site or regional facility.
To be eligible for a modification, the applicant must demonstrate to the satisfaction of the city that the use of an off-site or regional facility will not result in the following impacts to upstream or downstream areas:
(1)
Increased threat of flood damage to public health, life, and property;
(2)
Deterioration of existing culverts, bridges, dams, and other structures;
(3)
Accelerated streambank or streambed erosion or siltation;
(4)
Degradation of in-stream biological functions or habitat; or
(5)
Water quality impairment in violation of state water quality standards, and/or violation of any state or federal regulations.
(Ord. of 2-6-2006, § 3.8)
Secs. 107-59—107-90. - Reserved.
ARTICLE IV. - POST-DEVELOPMENT STORMWATER MANAGEMENT PERFORMANCE CRITERIA

Sec. 107-91. - Generally.
All site designs shall establish stormwater management practices to control the peak flow rates of stormwater discharge associated with specified design storms and reduce the volume of stormwater runoff generated. These practices should seek to use pervious areas for stormwater treatment and to infiltrate stormwater runoff from driveways, sidewalks, rooftops, parking lots, and landscaped areas to the maximum extent practical to provide treatment for both water quality and quantity.
The following performance criteria shall be applicable to all stormwater management plans, unless otherwise provided for in this chapter.
(Ord. of 2-6-2006, § 4)
Sec. 107-92. - Water quality.
All stormwater runoff generated from a site shall be adequately treated before discharge. Stormwater practices must treat the first one and two-tenths inches of runoff from all storms and remove 80 percent of the post-development total suspended solid load from treated runoff. It will be presumed that a stormwater management system complies with this requirement if:
(1)
It is sized to treat the prescribed water quality treatment volume from the site, as defined in the Georgia Stormwater Management Manual; and
(2)
Appropriate structural stormwater controls or nonstructural practices are selected, designed, constructed or preserved, and maintained according to the specific criteria in the Georgia Stormwater Management Manual; and
(3)
Runoff from hotspot land uses and activities identified by the city are adequately treated and addressed through the use of appropriate structural stormwater controls, nonstructural practices and pollution prevention practices.
(Ord. of 2-6-2006, § 4.1)
Sec. 107-93. - Stream channel protection.
Protection of stream channels from bank and bed erosion and degradation shall be provided by using all of the following three approaches:
(1)
Preservation, restoration and/or reforestation (with native vegetation) of any stream buffers protected through other regulations; and
(2)
Erosion prevention measures such as energy dissipation and velocity control; and
(3)
Twenty-four-hour extended detention storage of the one-year, 24-hour return frequency storm event. Provided, however, that the local government may reduce the storage volume calculated to meet this requirement by: (1) the volume that is infiltrated and/or evapotranspired through use of other structural and nonstructural stormwater management measures; and (2) the reduction in volume that occurs through use of nonstructural stormwater management measures and better site design. If the entire storage volume calculated to meet the requirement of 24-hour extended detention storage of the one-year, 24-hour return frequency storm event is eliminated, infiltrated, and/or evapotranspired, the local government may waive this requirement.
(Ord. of 2-6-2006, § 4.4)
Sec. 107-94. - Overbank flooding protection.
Downstream overbank flood and property protection shall be provided by controlling (attenuating) the post-development peak discharge rate to the pre-development rate for the 25-year, 24-hour return frequency storm event. If control of the one-year, 24-hour storm under section 107-93 is exempted, then peak discharge rate attenuation of the two-year through the 25-year return frequency storm event must be provided.
(Ord. of 2-6-2006, § 4.3)
Sec. 107-95. - Extreme flooding protection.
Extreme flood and public safety protection shall be provided by controlling and safely conveying the 100-year, 24-hour return frequency storm event such that flooding is not exacerbated.
(Ord. of 2-6-2006, § 4.4)
Sec. 107-96. - Structural stormwater controls.
All structural stormwater management facilities shall be selected and designed using the appropriate criteria from the Georgia Stormwater Management Manual. All structural stormwater controls must be designed appropriately to meet their intended function. For other structural stormwater controls not included in the Georgia Stormwater Management Manual, or for which pollutant removal rates have not been provided, the effectiveness and pollutant removal of the structural control must be documented through prior studies, literature reviews, or other means and receive approval from the city before being included in the design of a stormwater management system. In addition, if hydrologic or topographic conditions, or land use activities warrant greater control than that provided by the minimum control requirements, the city may impose additional requirements deemed necessary to protect upstream and downstream properties and aquatic resources from damage due to increased volume, frequency, and rate of stormwater runoff or increased nonpoint source pollution loads created on the site in question. Applicants shall consult the Georgia Stormwater Management Manual for guidance on the factors that determine site design feasibility when selecting and locating a structural stormwater control.
(Ord. of 2-6-2006, § 4.5)
Sec. 107-97. - Stormwater credits for nonstructural measures.
The use of better site design and nonstructural stormwater management practices is encouraged to minimize reliance on structural stormwater management measures. The use of one or more site design measures by the applicant may allow for a reduction in the water quality treatment volume required under section 107-92 and the stream channel protection volume required under section 107-93(3). The applicant may, if approved by the city, take credit for the use of stormwater better site design practices and reduce the water quality and channel protection volume requirements. For each potential credit, there is a minimum set of criteria and requirements which identify the conditions or circumstances under which the credit may be applied. The site design practices that qualify for this credit and the criteria and procedures for applying and calculating the credits are included in the Georgia Stormwater Management Manual.
(Ord. of 2-6-2006, § 4.6)
Sec. 107-98. - Drainage system guidelines.
Stormwater conveyance facilities, which may include but are not limited to culverts, stormwater drainage pipes, catch basins, drop inlets, junction boxes, headwalls, gutter, swales, channels, ditches, and energy dissipaters shall be provided when necessary for the protection of public right-of-way and private properties adjoining project sites and/or public rights-of-way. Stormwater conveyance facilities that are designed to carry runoff from more that one parcel, existing or proposed, shall meet the following requirements:
(1)
Methods to calculate stormwater flows shall be in accordance with the Georgia Stormwater Management Manual;
(2)
All culverts, pipe systems and open channel flow systems shall be sized in accordance with the stormwater management plan using the methods included in the Georgia Stormwater Management Manual; and,
(3)
Design and construction of stormwater conveyance facilities shall be in accordance with the criteria and specifications found in the Georgia Stormwater Management Manual.
(Ord. of 2-6-2006, § 4.7)
Secs. 107-99—107-130. - Reserved.
ARTICLE V. - PRIORITY AREAS

Secs. 107-131—107-160. - Reserved.
ARTICLE VI. - CONSTRUCTION INSPECTIONS OF POST-DEVELOPMENT STORMWATER MANAGEMENT SYSTEM

Sec. 107-161. - Inspections to ensure plan compliance during construction.
Periodic inspections of the stormwater management system construction shall be conducted by the staff of the city or conducted and certified by a professional engineer who has been approved by the city. Construction inspections shall utilize the approved stormwater management plan for establishing compliance.
All inspections shall be documented with written reports that contain the following information:
(1)
The date and location of the inspection;
(2)
Whether construction is in compliance with the approved stormwater management plan;
(3)
Variations from the approved construction specifications; and
(4)
Any other variations or violations of the conditions of the approved stormwater management plan.
If any violations are found, the applicant shall be notified in writing of the nature of the violation and the required corrective actions.
(Ord. of 2-6-2006, § 6.1)
Sec. 107-162. - Final inspection and as-built plans.
Upon completion of a project, and before a certificate of occupancy shall be granted, the applicant is responsible for certifying that the completed project is in accordance with the approved stormwater management plan. All applicants are required to submit actual "as-built" plans for any stormwater management facilities or practices after final construction is completed. The plan must show the final design specifications for all stormwater management facilities and practices and must be certified by a professional engineer. A final inspection by the city is required before the release of any performance securities can occur.
(Ord. of 2-6-2006, § 6.2)
Secs. 107-163—107-190. - Reserved.
ARTICLE VII. - ONGOING INSPECTION AND MAINTENANCE OF STORMWATER FACILITIES AND PRACTICES

Sec. 107-191. - Maintenance responsibility.
(a)
Except as provided below, the owner of the property on which work has been done pursuant to this chapter for private stormwater management facilities, regional stormwater facilities, and stormwater BMPs, or any other person or agent in control of such property, shall maintain in good condition and promptly repair and restore all grade surfaces, walls, drains, dams and structures, vegetation, erosion and sedimentation controls, and other protective devices. Such repairs or restoration and maintenance shall be in accordance with the approved inspection and maintenance agreement and covenant.
(b)
If the owner of the stormwater management facility, regional stormwater facility, or stormwater BMP is an owner's association, unit owners' association, or homeowners' association, the owner shall provide the city a copy of the association's recorded declaration. The declaration must provide:
(1)
That the facility or BMP is part of the common elements and shall be subject to the inspection and maintenance agreement and covenant;
(2)
That membership in the association shall be mandatory and automatic for all unit owners or homeowners of the development and their successors;
(3)
That the association shall have lien authority to ensure the collection of dues from all members;
(4)
That the requirements of the inspection and maintenance agreement and covenant shall receive the highest priority for expenditures by the association except for any other expenditures which are required by law to have a higher priority;
(5)
That a separate fund shall be maintained by the association for the routine maintenance, reconstruction and repair of the facilities and/or BMPs, separate from all other funds of the association; that it shall be kept in an account insured by the FDIC or by another entity acceptable to the city;
(6)
That the routine maintenance, reconstruction, and repair fund shall contain at all times the dollar amount reasonably determined from time to time by city to be adequate to pay for the probable reconstruction and repair cost (but not routine maintenance cost) for a three-year period;
(7)
That, to the extent permitted by law, the association shall not enter into voluntary dissolution unless the facilities and/or BMPs are transferred to a successor owner.
(c)
The city, in lieu of an inspection and maintenance agreement and covenant, may accept dedication of any existing or future stormwater management facility or BMP for maintenance, provided such facility or BMP meets all the requirements of this chapter, is in proper working order at the time of dedication, and includes adequate and perpetual access and sufficient area for inspection and regular maintenance. Such adequate and perpetual access shall be accomplished by granting of an easement to the city or through fee simple dedication to the city.
(d)
Stormwater management facilities and practices included in a stormwater management plan which are subject to an inspection and maintenance agreement and covenant must undergo ongoing inspections to document maintenance and repair needs and ensure compliance with the requirements of the agreement and covenant, the stormwater management plan, and this chapter.
(e)
In the event that a stormwater detention facility is located in a residential development which development does not have an owner's association, unit owners' association, or homeowners' association which is responsible for periodic maintenance of the facility, then and in that event the person, persons or owners, whose properties contribute stormwater runoff to the detention facility, shall bear responsibility for the said periodic maintenance required to keep the detention facility working properly as determined by the city.
(Ord. of 2-6-2006, § 7.1; Ord. No. 05-2021 , § 2, 11-15-2021)
Sec. 107-192. - Maintenance inspections.
The city shall ensure that preventative maintenance is performed by inspecting all stormwater management systems. Facilities and/or BMPs serving 20,001 square feet of impervious cover or more shall be inspected at least annually. Facilities and/or BMPs serving more than 5,001 square feet but less than or equal to 20,000 square feet of impervious cover shall be inspected at least biennially. Facilities and/or BMPs serving 5,000 square feet of impervious cover or less shall be inspected at least triennially.
Inspection reports shall be submitted to and maintained by the city for all stormwater management systems.
Inspection reports for stormwater management systems shall include:
(1)
The date of inspection;
(2)
Name of inspector;
(3)
The condition of:
a.
Vegetation or filter media;
b.
Fences or other safety devices;
c.
Spillways, valves, or other control structures;
d.
Embankments, slopes, and safety benches;
e.
Reservoir or treatment areas;
f.
Inlet and outlet channels and structures;
g.
Underground drainage;
h.
Sediment and debris accumulation in storage and forebay areas;
i.
Any nonstructural practices; and
j.
Any other item that could affect the proper function of the stormwater management system.
(4)
Description of the need for maintenance.
In the event that the stormwater management facility has not been maintained and/or becomes a danger to public safety or public health, the city shall notify the person responsible for carrying out the maintenance plan by registered or certified mail to the person specified in the inspection and maintenance agreement and covenant. The notice shall specify the measures needed to comply with the maintenance agreement and covenant and the maintenance plan and shall specify that the responsible person has 30 days or other time frame mutually agreed to between the city and the responsible person, within which such measures shall be completed. The city shall then conduct a subsequent inspection to ensure completion of the repair measures. If such measures are not completed, then enforcement procedures found in section 107-195 herein shall be followed by the city.
(Ord. of 2-6-2006, § 7.2)
Sec. 107-193. - Right-of-entry for inspection.
The terms of the inspection and maintenance agreement and covenant shall provide for the city to enter the property at reasonable times and in a reasonable manner for the purpose of inspection. This includes the right to enter a property when it has a reasonable basis to believe that a violation of this chapter is occurring or has occurred and to enter when necessary for abatement of a public nuisance or correction of a violation of this chapter.
(Ord. of 2-6-2006, § 7.3)
Sec. 107-194. - Records of maintenance activities.
Parties responsible for the operation and maintenance of a stormwater management facility shall provide records of all maintenance and repairs to the city.
(Ord. of 2-6-2006, § 7.4)
Sec. 107-195. - Failure to maintain.
If a responsible person fails or refuses to meet the requirements of this chapter and/or the inspection and maintenance agreement and covenant, the city, after 30 days' written notice (except, that in the event the violation constitutes an immediate danger to public health or public safety, 24 hours' notice shall be sufficient), may correct a violation of the design standards or maintenance requirements by performing the necessary work to place the facility or practice in proper working condition. The city may assess the parties responsible for maintenance of the facility penalties as described in § 107-240, or may assess for the cost of repair work which shall be a lien on the property, and may be collected in any manner allowed by law, including but not limited to the manner in which liens for taxes are collected.
(Ord. of 2-6-2006, § 7.5; Ord. No. 05-2021 , § 2, 11-15-2021)
Secs. 107-196—107-200. - Reserved.
ARTICLE VIII. - ILLICIT DISCHARGE AND ILLEGAL CONNECTION TO THE STORM SEWER SYSTEM

Sec. 107-201. - General provisions.
(a)
Purpose and intent. The purpose of this article is to protect the public health, safety, environment and general welfare through the regulation of non-stormwater discharges to the city separate storm sewer system to the maximum extent practicable as required by law. This article establishes methods for controlling the introduction of pollutants into the city separate storm sewer system in order to comply with requirements of the National Pollutant Discharge Elimination System (NPDES) permit process. The objectives of this article are to:
(1)
Regulate the contribution of pollutants to the city separate storm sewer system by any person;
(2)
Prohibit illicit discharges and illegal connections to the city separate storm sewer system;
(3)
Prevent non-stormwater discharges, generated as a result of spills, inappropriate dumping or disposal, to the city separate storm sewer system; and,
(4)
Establish legal authority to carry out all inspection, surveillance, monitoring and enforcement procedures necessary to ensure compliance with this article.
(b)
Applicability. The provisions of this article shall apply throughout the incorporated area of the city.
(c)
Compatibility with other regulations. This article is not intended to modify or repeal any other ordinance, rule, regulation, other provision of law. The requirements of this article are in addition to the requirements of any other ordinance, rule, regulation, or other provision of law, and where any provision of this article imposes restrictions different from those imposed by any other ordinance, rule, regulation, or other provision of law, whichever provision is more restrictive or imposes higher protective standards for human health or the environment shall control.
(d)
Responsibility for administration. The city public works department shall administer, implement, and enforce the provisions of this article unless otherwise noted herein.
(Ord. of 12-17-2018, § 5)
Sec. 107-202. - Prohibition of illicit discharges.
(a)
No person shall throw, drain, or otherwise discharge, cause, or allow others under its control to throw, drain, or otherwise discharge into the city separate storm sewer system any pollutants or waters containing any pollutant, other than stormwater.
(b)
The following discharges are exempt from the prohibition provision above:
(1)
Water line flushing performed by a government agency, other potable water sources, landscape irrigation or lawn watering, diverted stream flows, rising ground water, ground water infiltration to storm drains, uncontaminated pumped ground water, foundation or footing drains (not including active groundwater dewatering systems), crawl space pumps, air conditioning condensation, non-commercial washing of vehicles, swimming pools (if dechlorinated - typically less than one PPM chlorine), springs, natural riparian habitat or wetland flows, and any other water source not containing pollutants;
(2)
Dye testing is an allowable discharge, but requires an email or other written notification to the authorized enforcement agency prior to the time of the test;
(3)
Discharges or flows from firefighting, and other discharges specified in writing by the city as being necessary to protect public health and safety;
(4)
The prohibition provision above shall not apply to any non-stormwater discharge permitted under an NPDES permit or order issued to the discharger and administered under the authority of the state and the Federal Environmental Protection Agency, provided that the discharger is in full compliance with all requirements of the permit, waiver, or order and other applicable laws and regulations, and provided that written approval has been granted for any discharge to the city separate storm sewer system.
(Ord. of 12-17-2018, § 5)
Sec. 107-203. - Prohibition of illegal connections.
The construction, connection, use, maintenance or continued existence of any illegal connection to the city separate storm sewer system is prohibited.
(1)
This prohibition expressly includes, without limitation, illegal connections made in the past, regardless of whether the connection was permissible under law or practices applicable or prevailing at the time of connection.
(2)
A person violates this article if the person connects a line conveying sewage to the city separate storm sewer system or allows such a connection to continue.
(3)
Improper connections in violation of this article must be disconnected and redirected, if necessary, to an approved onsite wastewater management system or the sanitary sewer system upon approval of the city utilities department or if applicable, Etowah Water and Sewer Authority.
(4)
Any drain or conveyance that has not been documented in plans, maps or equivalent, and which may be connected to the storm sewer system, shall be located by the owner or occupant of that property upon receipt of written notice of violation from the city requiring that such locating be completed. Such notice will specify a reasonable time period within which the location of the drain or conveyance is to be completed, that the drain or conveyance be identified as storm sewer, sanitary sewer or other, and that the outfall location or point of connection to the storm sewer system, sanitary sewer system or other discharge point be identified. Results of these investigations are to be documented and provided to the city.
(Ord. of 12-17-2018, § 5)
Sec. 107-204. - Industrial or construction activity discharges.
Any person subject to an industrial or construction activity NPDES stormwater discharge permit shall comply with all provisions of such permit. Proof of compliance with said permit may be required in a form acceptable to the city prior to allowing discharges to the city separate storm sewer system.
(Ord. of 12-17-2018, § 5)
Sec. 107-205. - Access and inspection of properties and facilities.
The city shall be permitted to enter and inspect properties and facilities at reasonable times as often as may be necessary to determine compliance with this article.
(1)
If a property or facility has security measures in force which require proper identification and clearance before entry into its premises, the owner or operator shall make the necessary arrangements to allow access to representatives of the city.
(2)
The owner or operator shall allow the city ready access to all parts of the premises for the purposes of inspection, sampling, photography, videotaping, examination and copying of any records that are required under the conditions of an NPDES permit to discharge stormwater.
(3)
The city may set up on any property or facility devices necessary to conduct monitoring and/or sampling of flow discharges.
(4)
The city may require the owner or operator to install monitoring equipment and perform monitoring as necessary and make the monitoring data available to the city. This sampling and monitoring equipment shall be maintained at all times in a safe and proper operating condition by the owner or operator at his/her own expense. All devices used to measure flow and quality shall be calibrated to ensure accuracy.
(5)
Any temporary or permanent obstruction to safe and easy access to the property or facility to be inspected and/or sampled shall be promptly removed by the owner or operator at the request of the city and shall not be replaced. The costs of clearing such access shall be borne by the owner or operator.
(6)
Unreasonable delays in allowing the city access to a facility is a violation of this article.
(7)
If the city has been refused access to any part of the premises from which stormwater is discharged and the city is able to demonstrate probable cause to believe that a violation of this article exists or occurred or that there is a need to inspect and/or sample as part of a routine inspection and sampling program designed to verify compliance with this article or any order issued hereunder or to protect the overall public health, safety, environment and welfare of the community, then the city may seek issuance of a search warrant from any court of competent jurisdiction.
(Ord. of 12-17-2018, § 5)
Sec. 107-206. - Notification of accidental discharges and spills.
(a)
Notwithstanding other requirements of law, as soon as any person responsible for a facility, activity or operation, or responsible for emergency response for a facility, activity or operation has information of any known or suspected release of pollutants or non-stormwater discharges from that facility or operation which are resulting or may result in illicit discharges or pollutants discharging into stormwater, the city separate storm sewer system, state waters, or waters of the U.S., the person so responsible shall take all necessary steps to ensure the discovery, containment, and cleanup of such release so as to minimize the effects of the discharge.
(b)
Such person shall notify the city public works department in person, by phone, or email of the discharge or spill no later than 24 hours of the nature, quantity and time of occurrence of the discharge or spill. Notifications in person or by phone shall be confirmed by written notice addressed and mailed to the city within three business days of the phone or in person notice. If the discharge or spill of prohibited materials emanates from a commercial or industrial establishment, the owner or operator of such establishment shall also retain an on-site written record of the discharge or spill and the actions taken to prevent its recurrence. Such records shall be retained for at least three years. The owner or operator shall also take immediate steps to ensure no recurrence of the discharge or spill.
(c)
In the event of a release of hazardous materials, emergency response agencies and/or other appropriate agencies shall be immediately notified.
(d)
Failure to provide notification of a release as provided herein is a violation of this article.
(Ord. of 12-17-2018, § 5)
Sec. 107-207. - Suspension of access.
(a)
Suspension due to illicit discharges in emergency situations. The city may, without prior notice, suspend discharge access into the city separate storm sewer system to a person when such suspension is necessary to stop an actual or threatened discharge which presents or may present imminent and substantial danger to the environment, or to the health or welfare of persons, or to the city separate storm sewer system, waters of the state, or waters of the United States. If the violator fails to comply with a suspension order issued in an emergency, the city may take such steps as deemed necessary to prevent or minimize damage to the city separate storm sewer system, waters of the state, waters of the United States, or to minimize danger to persons.
(b)
Suspension due to the detection of illicit discharge. Any person discharging to the city separate storm sewer system in violation of this article may have access terminated if such termination abates or reduces an illicit discharge. The city public works director will notify a violator of the proposed termination of access. The violator may petition the city for reconsideration and a hearing in accord with section 107-232 of this article.
(c)
Illegal reinstatement of access. A person commits an offense by reinstating the city separate storm sewer system access to premises terminated pursuant to this section without the prior approval of the city.
(Ord. of 12-17-2018, § 5)
Sec. 107-208. - Requirement to prevent, control, and reduce stormwater pollutants by the use of BMPs.
Best management practices for any activity, operation, or facility which may cause or contribute to pollution or contamination of stormwater, the city separate storm sewer system, or waters of the state and/or waters of the U.S. shall be observed by the owner of any property discharging into the city separate storm sewer system. The owner or operator of a commercial or industrial establishment shall provide, at their own expense, reasonable protection from accidental discharge of prohibited materials or other wastes into the city separate storm sewer system or watercourses through the use of these structural and non-structural BMPs. Further, any person responsible for a property or premise, which is, or may be, the source of an illicit discharge, may be required to implement, at said person's expense, additional structural and non-structural BMPs to prevent the further discharge of pollutants to the city separate storm sewer system. Compliance with all terms and conditions of a valid NPDES permit authorizing the discharge of stormwater associated with industrial activity, to the extent practicable, shall be deemed compliance with the provisions of this section. These BMPs shall be part of a stormwater pollution prevention plan (SWPP) as necessary for compliance with requirements of the NPDES permit.
(Ord. of 12-17-2018, § 5)
Sec. 107-209. - Watercourse protection.
Every person owning property through which a watercourse passes, or such person's lessee, shall keep and maintain that part of the watercourse within the property free of trash, debris, and other obstacles that would pollute, contaminate, or significantly retard the flow of water through the watercourse. In addition, the owner or lessee shall maintain existing privately-owned structures within or adjacent to a watercourse, so that such structures will not become a hazard to the use, function, or physical integrity of the watercourse.
(Ord. of 12-17-2018, § 5)
Secs. 107-210—107-230. - Reserved.
ARTICLE IX. - VIOLATIONS AND ENFORCEMENT[1]

Footnotes:
--- (1) ---
Editor's note— An ordinance of December 17, 2018, § 4, renumbered former art. VIII as art. IX. Subsequently, the title of art. IX was amended at the discretion of the editor to reflect the relocation of material regarding penalties. Please see art. X for more information.

Sec. 107-231. - Generally.
(a)
It shall be unlawful for any person to violate any provision of this article or fail to comply with any of the requirements of this article, either through action or inaction. Any such action or inaction which is continuous with respect to time is deemed to be a public nuisance and may be abated by injunctive or other equitable relief. Any person who has violated or continues to violate the provisions of this article, may be subject to the enforcement actions outlined in this article or may be restrained by injunction or otherwise abated in a manner provided by law.
(b)
In the event the violation constitutes an immediate danger to public health or public safety, the city is authorized to enter upon the subject private property, without giving prior notice, to take any and all measures necessary to abate the violation and/or restore the property. The city is authorized to seek costs of the abatement as outlined in section 107-232.
(Ord. of 2-6-2006, § 8; Ord. of 12-17-2018, § 6)
Sec. 107-232. - Notice of violation; appeal; abatement.
(a)
Notice of violation. Whenever the city finds that a violation of this article, a permit, or approved stormwater management plan has occurred, the city may order compliance by written notice of violation. Where a person is engaged in activity covered by this article without having first secured a permit therefore, the notice of violation shall be served on the owner or the responsible person in charge of the activity being conducted on the site.
(1)
The notice of violation shall contain:
a.
The name and address of the alleged violator;
b.
The address when available or a description of the building, structure or land upon which the violation is occurring, or has occurred;
c.
A statement specifying the nature of the violation;
d.
A description of the remedial measures necessary to restore compliance with this article and a time schedule for the completion of such remedial action;
e.
A statement of the penalty or penalties that shall or may be assessed against the person to whom the notice of violation is directed.
(2)
Such notice may require without limitation:
a.
The performance of monitoring, analyses, and reporting;
b.
The elimination of illicit discharges and illegal connections;
c.
That violating discharges, practices, or operations shall cease and desist;
d.
The abatement or remediation of stormwater pollution or contamination hazards and the restoration of any affected property;
e.
Payment of costs to cover administrative and abatement costs; and,
f.
The implementation of pollution prevention practices.
(b)
Appeal of notice of violation. Any person receiving a notice of violation may appeal such determination. The notice of appeal must be received by the public works director within ten days from the date of the notice of violation. Hearing on the appeal before the city mayor and council shall take place within 30 days following submission of the notice of appeal. The decision of the mayor and council shall be final and subject to appeal only by writ of certiorari to the superior court of the county.
(c)
Enforcement measures after appeal. If the violation has not been corrected pursuant to the requirements set forth in the notice of violation, or in the event of an appeal to the mayor and council or superior court, within ten days of the final decision of the appropriate authority upholding the decision of the city, then representatives of the city may enter upon the subject private property and are authorized to take any and all measures necessary to abate the violation and/or restore the property. It shall be unlawful for any person, owner, agent or person in possession of any premises to refuse to allow the city or its designated contractor to enter upon the premises for the purposes set forth above.
(d)
Costs of abatement of the violation. Within 30 days after abatement of the violation, the owner of the property will be notified of the cost of abatement, including administrative costs incurred by the city. The property owner may file a written protest objecting to the assessment or to the amount of the assessment within 30 days of such notice. If the amount due is not paid within 30 days after receipt of the notice, or if an appeal is taken, within 30 days after a decision on said appeal, the charges shall become a special assessment against the property and shall constitute a lien on the property for the amount of the assessment. Any appeal of the cost of abatement shall follow the same procedure as outlined in section 107-232(c) as set forth hereinabove.
(Ord. No. 2-6-2006, § 8.1; Ord. of 12-17-2018, § 6)
Secs. 107-233—107-239. - Reserved.
ARTICLE X. - PENALTIES[2]

Footnotes:
--- (2) ---
Editor's note— Ord. No. 03-2021 , adopted October 18, 2021, amended the Code by creating a new art. X, and renumbering former 107-233 as a new section 107-240, relocating it from art. IX.

Sec. 107-240. - Penalties.
Any person violating any of the provisions of this chapter, or failing to comply with remedial measures described in a notice of violation by the date set forth for such completion, shall become liable to the city by reason of such violation for any one or more of the following penalties:
(1)
Civil penalties. In the event a violation of any provision of this article or the alleged violator fails to take the remedial measures set forth in the notice of violation or otherwise fails to cure the violations described therein within ten days (or such greater period as the city shall deem appropriate), the city may impose a civil penalty not to exceed $1,000.00 for each day the violation remains unremedied after receipt of the notice of violation.
(2)
Criminal penalties. The city public works director or planning director may request, at his discretion, the city code enforcement personnel to issue a citation to the alleged violator requiring such person to appear in municipal court or other court of appropriate jurisdiction to answer charges for such violation. Upon conviction, such person shall be punished by a fine not to exceed $1,000.00. Each act of violation and each day upon which any violation shall occur shall constitute a separate offense.
(3)
Stop work order. The city may issue a stop work order which shall be served on the applicant or other responsible person. The stop work order shall remain in effect until the applicant or other responsible person has taken the remedial measures set forth in the notice of violation or has otherwise cured the violation or violations described therein, provided the stop work order may be withdrawn or modified to enable the applicant or other responsible person to take the necessary remedial measures to cure such violation or violations.
(4)
Withhold certificate of occupancy/certificate of completion. The city may refuse to issue a certificate of occupancy or certificate of completion for the building or other improvements constructed or being constructed on the site until the applicant or other responsible person has taken the remedial measures set forth in the notice of violation or has otherwise cured the violations described therein.
(5)
Suspension, revocation or modification of permit. The city may suspend, revoke or modify the permit authorizing the land development project. A suspended, revoked or modified permit may be reinstated after the applicant or other responsible person has taken the remedial measures set forth in the notice of violation or has otherwise cured the violations described therein, provided such permit may be reinstated (upon such conditions as the city may deem necessary) to enable the applicant or other responsible person to take the necessary remedial measures to cure such violations.
(6)
Violations deemed a public nuisance. In addition to the enforcement processes and penalties provided, any condition caused or permitted to exist in violation of any of the provisions of this article is a threat to public health, safety, welfare, and environment and is declared and deemed a nuisance, and may be abated by injunctive or other equitable relief as provided by law.
(7)
Remedies not exclusive. The remedies listed in this article are not exclusive of any other remedies available under any applicable federal, state or local law and the city may seek cumulative remedies.
(8)
Recovery of fees. The city may recover attorney's fees, court costs, and other expenses associated with enforcement of this article, including sampling and monitoring expenses from any violator of this article.
(Ord. of 2-6-2006, § 8.2; Ord. of 12-17-2018, § 6; Ord. No. 03-2021 , § 1, 10-18-2021)
