Chapter 26 - CIVIL EMERGENCIES
FOOTNOTE(S):
--- (1) ---
Cross reference— Administration, ch. 2; public safety, ch. 58.
State Law reference— Interstate Civil Defense and Disaster Compact, O.C.G.A. § 38-3-70 et seq.
ARTICLE I. - IN GENERAL

Sec. 26-1. - Definitions.
The following words, terms and phrases, when used in this chapter, shall have the meanings ascribed to them in this section, except where the context clearly indicates a different meaning:
Curfew means a prohibition against any person walking, running, loitering, standing or motoring upon any alley, street, highway, public property or vacant premises within the city during the hours in which a curfew has been imposed, excepting persons officially designated to duty with reference to such civil emergency or disaster.
Disaster means any happening that causes great harm or damage.
Emergency means a sudden generally unexpected occurrence or set of circumstances demanding immediate action.
Local state of emergency means the condition declared by the mayor or his designee when, in the mayor's judgment, the threat or actual occurrence of a disaster or emergency in any part of the city is of sufficient severity and magnitude to warrant extraordinary assistance to supplement the efforts and available resources of the state, county or private relief organizations in preventing or alleviating the damage, loss, hardship, or suffering threatened or caused thereby.
State of emergency means the condition declared by the governor when, in his judgment, the threat or actual occurrence of a disaster, emergency, or energy emergency in any part of the state is of sufficient severity and magnitude to warrant extraordinary assistance by the state to supplement the efforts and available resources of the several localities and relief organizations in preventing or alleviating the damage, loss, hardship, or suffering threatened or caused thereby.
Subsequent recovery period means that period during which an emergency or disaster continues to cause disruptions in the emergency or disaster area, but shall not exceed six months after the emergency or disaster declaration has been terminated unless extended by official action of the city.
(Ord. of 10-16-1997(1), § 6A-1)
Cross reference— Definitions generally, § 1-2.
Sec. 26-2. - Penalties for violation.
Failure to comply with any of the requirements and provisions of this chapter shall constitute a violation of this chapter. Any person who violates this chapter or fails to comply with any of its requirements shall, upon conviction thereof, be punished as provided in section 1-11 of this Code. Nothing contained in this section shall prevent the city from taking such other lawful action as is necessary to prevent or remedy any violation of this chapter.
(Ord. of 10-16-1997(1), § 6A-7(b))
Sec. 26-3. - Liberality of construction.
This chapter shall be liberally construed in favor of the mayor and council and deemed neither to limit nor repeal any other powers granted under state statutes.
(Ord. of 10-16-1997(1), § 6A-7(a))
Secs. 26-4—26-30. - Reserved.
ARTICLE II. - LOCAL STATES OF EMERGENCY
DIVISION 1. - GENERALLY

Sec. 26-31. - Authority to proclaim.
When in the judgment of the mayor a local state of emergency is deemed to exist, he shall proclaim in writing the existence of such state of emergency and communicate such proclamation to the citizens of the city using the most effective and efficient means available.
(Ord. of 10-16-1997(1), § 6A-2)
Sec. 26-32. - Content of proclamation.
The proclamation of a state of emergency shall indicate the nature of the local emergency or disaster, the geographic area affected by the proclamation, the conditions which require the proclamation to be established, and the conditions under which it will be terminated.
(Ord. of 10-16-1997(1), § 6A-2)
Sec. 26-33. - Emergency powers of local government.
The mayor shall have and may exercise for such period as the local state of emergency or disaster exists or continues, unless the state or county government assumes direct control of the emergency or disaster and the city's efforts are subordinated to the state or county, the following emergency powers within the city:
(1)
Enforce all laws, rules, and regulations relating to emergency management and to assume direct operational control of all civil forces and helpers in the city.
(2)
Seize or take private property for temporary use only if it cannot be acquired, temporarily or permanently, by purchase, donation or lease, and only if there is compelling necessity for the protection of the lives, health, welfare and/or property of citizens.
(3)
Sell, lend, give, or distribute all or any such property among the inhabitants of the city and to account to the proper state or local agency for any funds received for the property.
(4)
Suspend any regulatory ordinance prescribing the procedures for conduct of city business if strict compliance with such ordinance would in any way prevent, hinder, or delay unnecessary action in coping with the emergency or disaster.
(5)
Utilize all available resources of the city government and subordinate departments which it has budgetary control as reasonably necessary to cope with the emergency or disaster.
(6)
Transfer the direction, personnel, or functions of any city departments for the purpose of performing or facilitating emergency services.
(7)
Commandeer or utilize any private property if the mayor finds this necessary to cope with the emergency or disaster.
(8)
Direct and compel the evacuation of all or part of the population from any stricken or threatened area within the city if the mayor deems this action necessary for the preservation of life or other disaster mitigation, response, or recovery.
(9)
Prescribe routes, modes of transportation, and destinations in connection with evacuation.
(10)
Control ingress and egress to and from a disaster area, the movement of persons within the area, and the occupancy of premises therein.
(11)
Suspend or limit the sale, dispensing, or transportation of alcoholic beverages, firearms, explosives, and combustibles.
(12)
Make provision for the availability of and use of temporary emergency housing.
(13)
Perform and exercise such other functions, powers, and duties as may be deemed necessary to promote and secure the safety and protection of the civilian population of the city.
(14)
Coordinate the exercise of the above emergency powers with the mayors of the other municipalities of the county and other appropriate state, county, and federal officials.
(Ord. of 10-16-1997(1), § 6A-3)
Sec. 26-34. - Curfew; closed or restricted areas.
(a)
In order to preserve, protect or sustain the life, health, welfare or safety of persons, or their property, within an area in the city designated in a declaration of emergency, it shall be unlawful for any person to travel, loiter, wander, or stroll in or upon the public streets, highways, roads, lanes, parks, or other public grounds, public places, public buildings, places of amusement, eating places, vacant lots or any other place in the city during a declared emergency between the hours of 9:00 p.m. on any day and 6:00 a.m. of the following day, unless otherwise specified by the mayor, until the curfew is lifted by the mayor.
(b)
The provisions of this section shall not apply in the following instances:
(1)
Authorized law enforcement personnel.
(2)
Authorized health care providers.
(3)
Authorized personnel of the county or the city.
(4)
National Guard or federal military personnel.
(5)
Authorized firefighters.
(6)
Authorized emergency response personnel/volunteers.
(7)
Authorized utilities repair crews.
(8)
Citizens pursuing legitimate means to restore order to their homes or businesses while on their own property or place of business or while en route to or from such property or business.
(9)
Other authorized persons as set forth in a list compiled by the city's chief of police with the approval of the mayor.
(c)
This section shall be enforced by officers of the police department and the officers of any other law enforcement agency approved by the mayor to provide aid and assistance during an emergency.
(Ord. of 10-16-1997(1), § 6A-4)
Sec. 26-35. - Overcharging for goods, materials, services, housing.
(a)
In order to preserve, protect, or sustain the life, health, or safety of persons or their property, it shall be unlawful during the duration of a state of emergency or disaster, or the subsequent recovery period, in which the city has been designated as a disaster area, for any person located or doing business in the city to overcharge for any goods, materials, services, or housing sold within the city.
(b)
For purposes of interpreting and enforcing this section, the term "overcharging" is defined as charging prices for goods, materials, services, or housing, which are substantially in excess of the customary charges or in applicable cases substantially in excess of the supplier's or provider's costs for such goods, materials, services or housing. The existence of overcharging shall be presumed from a substantial increase in the price at which the goods, materials, services, or housing was offered in the usual course of business immediately prior to the onset of the emergency, but shall not include increases in costs to the supplier directly attributable to higher costs of materials, supplies, and labor costs resulting from the emergency.
(Ord. of 10-16-1997(1), § 6A-5)
Sec. 26-36. - Duration.
No local state of emergency or disaster may continue for longer than 30 days unless renewed by the mayor or his successor in the event of his unavailability.
(Ord. of 10-16-1997(1), § 6A-2)
Sec. 26-37. - Termination.
The city council, by resolution, may terminate a local state of emergency or disaster at any time. Thereupon, the mayor shall, by appropriate action, end the local state of emergency or disaster.
(Ord. of 10-16-1997(1), § 6A-2)
Secs. 26-38—26-60. - Reserved.
DIVISION 2. - BUILDING AND REPAIR SERVICES

Sec. 26-61. - Definitions.
The following words, terms and phrases, when used in this division, shall have the meanings ascribed to them in this section, except where the context clearly indicates a different meaning:
Building contractor means any person engaged in, undertaking or carrying on any business consisting of or related to building construction, repair, renovation or making improvements to real property including dwellings, homes, buildings, structures, or fixtures attached thereto.
Doing business means any business contractor engaged in business and thus subject to the requirements of this section if he has an office, agency, project site or place of business located in the city, or when he operates or maintains a business, either temporary, periodically or otherwise, in the city expressly including, but not limited to, the construction, renovation or repair of dwellings or buildings or the making of improvements to real property or any fixtures attached thereto located in the city regardless of the location of the principal office.
(Ord. of 10-16-1997(1), § 6A-6(b))
Cross reference— Definitions generally, § 1-2.
Sec. 26-62. - Registration, licensing required.
During any state of emergency and any subsequent recovery period, no person shall engage in, undertake or carry on any business in whole or in part within the city, consisting of or related to building, construction, repair, renovation or making improvements to real property including dwellings, homes, buildings, structures, or fixtures attached thereto without having registered the name of the business with the mayor and council and having received a building contractors license to do business and paid fees as provided by this section.
(Ord. of 10-16-1997(1), § 6A-6(a))
Sec. 26-63. - Application.
All building contractors doing business or proposing to do business in the city during any state of emergency and any subsequent recovery period shall register and apply for building contractors licenses to do business. Applicants shall register and file applications with the city clerk or such other person designated by the city. An applicant for a building contractors license shall, under oath, provide the city with a statement describing the general nature of the business to be conducted and give true and correct information as may be called for on the registration form, application or certificate provided by the city, which shall include the following:
(1)
Name of applicant;
(2)
Permanent address and telephone number of applicant;
(3)
Local address and telephone number of applicant;
(4)
Applicant's social security number or federal employer identification number;
(5)
If applicant is a corporation, the state and date of incorporation;
(6)
Tag registration for each vehicle to be used in the business;
(7)
List of cities where business has been conducted by the applicant within the past 12 months;
(8)
State sales tax number or authorization; and
(9)
State business license number, if required.
(Ord. of 10-16-1997(1), § 6A-6(c))
Sec. 26-64. - Fees.
The fees for the registration of licensing of building contractors under the provisions of this division shall be as set forth in the schedule of fees and charges on file in the office of the city clerk. Such fees shall be paid in full at the time of issuance of the license.
(Ord. of 10-16-1997(1), § 6A-6(d))
Sec. 26-65. - Violation.
During any state of emergency and any subsequent recovery period, any building contractor required by this division to pay a license fee and who engages in business without first registering and receiving a license as required by this section shall be in violation of this section.
(Ord. of 10-16-1997(1), § 6A-6(e))
Sec. 26-66. - Transfer prohibited.
Each license granted under this division is granted to, and shall be accepted by, the licensee under the condition that the license is not transferable and after issuance no such license shall be transferred by the city or the licensee to anyone.
(Ord. of 10-16-1997(1), § 6A-6(f))
Sec. 26-67. - Display of license.
Each license issued under this division shall be posted conspicuously by the licensee in the place of business of the licensee or shall be carried on his person or vehicle which is used in such business. Such license shall be exhibited to any authorized enforcement officer when so requested.
(Ord. of 10-16-1997(1), § 6A-6(g))
Sec. 26-68. - Revocation.
Each license granted under this division is a mere permit to engage in the business for which such license is granted while and only during such period such business is conducted in a lawful manner. The city reserves the right to revoke or suspend any license which has been granted under this division if the licensee, or the licensee's agent or employee acting within the scope of his employment, violates this section or any other county, state or federal law. If after issuance of a license, the city desires to revoke such license, written notice thereof shall be given to the licensee, which notice shall specify the violation with which a licensee is charged and a date, time and place at which a hearing shall be held with regard to the violation. The licensee shall have an opportunity to be heard at such hearing, shall have the right to be represented by counsel, and shall have the right to introduce and submit evidence in opposition to such revocation.
(Ord. of 10-16-1997(1), § 6A-6(h))
