Chapter 50 - MANUFACTURED HOMES[1]
Footnotes:
--- (1) ---
Editor's note— Ord. No. 2002-07, § 3, adopted April 9, 2002, repealed Ord. No. 99-11, adopted Jul. 14, 1999, in its entirety. Section 2 of said ordinance enacted new provisions to read as herein set out. Prior to amendment, Ord. No. 99-11 pertained to the enforcement of regulations for mobile/manufactured homes.
Cross reference— Environment, ch. 34; floods, ch. 42; health and sanitation, ch. 46; planning, ch. 58; roads and bridges, ch. 62; solid waste, ch. 70; subdivisions, ch. 74; utilities, ch. 86; zoning, app. A.
State Law reference— Classification of mobile homes as a separate class of property for ad valorem property tax purposes, Ga. Const. art. VII, § I, ¶ III; The Uniform Standards Code for Manufactured Homes Act, O.C.G.A. § 8-2-130 et seq.; registration and licensing of dealers, manufacturers and persons transporting mobile homes, O.C.G.A. § 40-2-38; removal of transportable housing from lands subject to writ of possession, O.C.G.A. § 44-7-59; ad valorem taxation of mobile homes, O.C.G.A. § 48-5-440 et seq.; issuance of mobile home location permits; display of decals, O.C.G.A. § 48-5-492.

ARTICLE I. - REGULATIONS FOR MOBILE HOME AND MANUFACTURED HOME

Sec. 50-1. - Location disclosure and decal required.
Every person holding a title to or possessing a mobile home or a manufactured home which is placed or located within the limits of Banks County, Georgia, shall report the location to, and shall obtain a location decal for said mobile home or manufactured home from, the tax commissioner of the county annually, no later than April 1 of each year.
(Ord. No. 2002-07, § 2, 4-9-2002)
Sec. 50-2. - Building permit required.
No mover, hauler, or person shall move a mobile home or a manufactured home to any location beyond the limits of the lot or parcel of land upon which it presently is located, or upon which it was originally located, whether existing within the county, without first obtaining a building permit from the building department of the county. No building permit shall be issued unless the person, firm, corporation or other entity moving it specify the new location to which it is to be moved. Any failure to secure a building permit required by this section shall be considered in violation of this chapter.
(Ord. No. 2002-07, § 2, 4-9-2002)
Sec. 50-3. - Proof of tax payment a condition of permit.
It shall be a condition precedent to issuance of any building permit required by this chapter that the owner of said mobile home or manufactured home submit to the aforesaid building department proof that all state and county taxes theretofore accruing and payable with respect to such mobile home or manufactured home have in fact been paid.
(Ord. No. 2002-07, § 2, 4-9-2002)
Sec. 50-4. - Permit application procedures.
(a)
All mobile homes or manufactured homes must be located at an approved site. This approval is obtained by the issuance of a building permit and a sanitary permit for wastewater hookup for that site. In the event that a municipality will provide sewer hookup, that municipality verifying that it will allow sewer hook up must provide a letter. A building permit application is available at the planning commission office and the sanitary permit application is available at the county health department. A building permit to move a mobile home or a manufactured home into or within the county shall not be issued until the building and sanitary permits have been issued. Upon the issuance of the above permits, a mobile home or manufactured home may be moved into the county or within the county and installed for occupancy. Mobile homes or manufactured homes may be brought into the county and located on a sales lot of a state approved dealer as listed in the office of the state safety fire commissioner for resale without a building or sanitary permit. Installation must comply with the Rules and Regulations for Manufactured Homes made and promulgated by the [State of] Georgia Safety Fire Commissioner pursuant to the authority set forth in O.C.G.A. §§ 8-2-135; 8-2-137(b); 8-2-161; 8-2-162; 8-2-165; 8-2-168 and 25-2 in order to obtain approval and to obtain permanent electrical service. A certificate of occupancy shall be issued indicating compliance with all applicable codes before any person or persons are authorized to occupy any newly installed mobile home or manufactured home.
(b)
For purpose of this section, the building official shall issue the aforementioned building permit, and the health department shall issue the aforementioned sanitary permit. These permits shall be considered separate permits.
(Ord. No. 2002-07, § 2, 4-9-2002)
Sec. 50-5. - Provisions for temporary power after the issuance of a building permit.
The building official is authorized to permit the applicable power company to provide temporary power not to exceed 110 volts for the express purpose of completing necessary installation of the mobile home or manufactured home. This provision specifically does not authorize permanent power hookup or occupancy of the mobile home or manufactured home. It shall be unlawful for temporary power to be utilized on a permanent basis or for occupancy of said home.
(Ord. No. 2002-07, § 2, 4-9-2002)
Sec. 50-6. - Mobile home and manufactured home minimum construction standards.
(a)
Each newly installed mobile home or manufactured home in the county shall conform to the minimum construction standards required by the U.S. Housing and Urban Development, as required by the National Mobile Home and Safety Standards Act of 1974, 42 U.S.C., Section 5401, et. seq., before that mobile home or manufactured home is entitled to receive any utility service to said mobile home or manufactured home. It is the intent of this section of this chapter to prohibit moving mobile homes or manufactured homes into the county that do not conform to the applicable U. S. Housing and Urban Development Department's construction standards, as expressed in 42 U.S.C. Section 5401, et. seq. and regulations established pursuant to that Act. To that end, no mobile home or manufactured home shall be allowed to locate for permanent or temporary occupancy in this county unless that mobile home or manufactured home complies with the minimum construction standards required by the U.S. Housing and Urban Development Department and has been inspected by the county building inspection department to insure that all windows, doors, smoke detectors, plumbing systems, electric systems, heating system and ventilation system are in working order, the general appearance of the mobile home or manufactured home shall be acceptable with all siding and paneling in its proper place.
(b)
In the event said mobile home or manufactured home was manufactured prior to U. S. Housing and Urban Development construction standards, said mobile home or manufactured home shall not be allowed to locate or relocate for permanent or temporary occupancy in this county, and said mobile home or manufactured home shall not be freely transferable and relocated in the county except as provided in subsection (d) of this section. No permit shall be issued under this section unless a septic tank permit has been obtained from the county health department provided however, that the mobile home or manufactured home will not be connected to a publicly owned sewer system. No mobile home or manufactured home permit will be issued unless proof of payment of current year taxes is provided.
(c)
No person may occupy a home described in this section after the effective date of April 9, 2002, without a certificate of occupancy issued by the county building inspection department. The county building inspection department shall issue a certificate of occupancy within five working days after satisfactory final inspection.
(d)
Minimum health and safety standards. All pre-owned manufactured homes shall comply with the following before being issued a certificate of occupancy by the building inspector and prior to being located in or relocated in Banks County:
(1)
HUD code. Every pre-owned manufactured home located in the jurisdiction shall be in compliance with the Federal Manufactured Housing Construction and Safety Standards Act, 42 U.S.C. 5401-5445 (the HUD code) and shall not have been altered in such a way that the home no longer meets the HUD code.
(2)
Interior condition. Every floor, interior wall, and ceiling of a pre-owned manufactured home shall be in sound condition. Doors and windows shall be operable, watertight and in good working condition. The floor system shall be in sound condition and free of warping, holes, water damage, or deterioration.
(3)
Exterior condition. The exterior of all pre-owned manufactured homes shall be free of loose or rotting boards or timbers and any other conditions that might admit rain or moisture to the interior portions of the walls or to occupied spaces. The exterior siding shall be free of rot and rust. Roofs shall be structurally sound and have no obvious defects that might admit rain or cause moisture to collect on the interior portion of the home.
(4)
Sanitary facilities. Every plumbing fixture, water, and waste pipe of a pre-owned manufactured home shall be in a sanitary working condition when properly connected, and shall be free from leaks and obstructions. Each home shall contain a kitchen sink. Each bathroom shall contain a lavatory and water closet. At least one bathroom shall contain a tub and/or shower facilities. Each of these fixtures shall be checked upon being connected to ensure they are in good working condition.
(5)
Heating systems. Heating shall be safe and in working condition. Un-vented heaters shall be prohibited.
(6)
Electrical systems. (switches, receptacles, fixtures, etc.) shall be properly installed and wired and shall be in working condition. Distribution panels shall be in compliance with the approved listing, complete with required breakers, with all unused openings covered with solid covers approved and listed for that purpose. The home shall be subject to an electrical continuity test to assure that all metallic parts are properly bonded. Each pre-owned manufactured home shall contain a water heater in safe and working order.
(7)
Hot water supply. Each home shall contain a water heater in safe and working condition.
(8)
Egress windows. Each bedroom of a manufactured home shall have at least one operable window of sufficient size to allow egress if necessary.
(9)
Ventilation. The kitchen in the home shall have at least one operating window or other ventilation device.
(10)
Smoke detectors. Each pre-owned manufactured home shall contain one operable battery-powered smoke detector in each bedroom and in the kitchen, which must be installed in accordance with the manufacturer's recommendations.
(Ord. No. 2002-07, § 2, 4-9-2002; Ord. No. 2002-14, §§ 1, 2, 7-9-2002; Ord. No. 2010-22 , §§ 1, 2, 12-14-2010)
Sec. 50-7. - Mobile homes and manufactured homes not meeting minimum construction standards.
A mobile home or manufactured home that is more than seven years old and does not meet the requirements of this chapter and a mobile home or manufactured home that is located in the county and was manufactured prior to U. S. Housing and Urban Development construction standards may be transferred to a county licensed dealer authorized to buy and sell mobile homes and/or manufactured homes for location at said dealer's place of business for sale or transfer outside of the county. In no event shall this exception allow any person to live in said mobile home or manufactured home or to allow said home to receive any utility service.
(Ord. No. 2002-07, § 2, 4-9-2002)
Sec. 50-8. - Mobile homes and manufactured home installation requirements.
A pre-owned mobile home or manufactured home that does not meet the minimum health and safety standards of this chapter may be transferred to a county licensed dealer authorized to buy and sell mobile homes and/or manufactured homes for location at said dealer's place of business for sale or transfer outside of the county. In no event shall this exception allow any person to live in said mobile home or manufactured home or to allow said home to receive any utility service.
(Ord. No. 2002-07, § 2, 4-9-2002; Ord. No. 2002-14, § 3, 7-9-2002; Ord. No. 2010-22 , § 3, 12-14-2010)
Sec. 50-9. - Process of inspection for mobile homes and manufactured homes.
(a)
Foundation. The building official shall require the foundation to be inspected to ensure compliance with the rules and regulations for manufactured homes made and promulgated by the [State of] Georgia Safety Fire Commissioner as they now exist and as hereinafter amended. These rules and regulations for manufactured homes are incorporated as a part of this chapter by reference.
(b)
Plumbing. The building official shall require the external plumbing system to be inspected, including water and sewage connections, to ensure compliance with the rules and regulations for manufactured homes and the 2000 Georgia State Plumbing Code, as it now exists or as hereinafter amended.
(c)
Stairs and landings.
(1)
The building official shall require stairs and landings to comply with Section 1112—Stairway Construction of the Georgia State Building Code as may be subsequently revised: The height of the riser shall not exceed 7¾ inches, and treads, exclusive of nosing, shall be not less than nine inches wide. Every tread less than ten inches wide shall have a nosing, of effective projection, or approximately 1 inch over the level immediately below the tread. The width of the landings still is not less than the width of stairways they serve. Every landing shall have a minimum dimension measured in the direction of travel equal to the width of the stairway. Such dimension need not exceed four foot when the stair has a straight run.
(2)
All stairways having treads located more than 30 inches above a floor or grade shall be equipped with handrail located not less than 30 and not more than 34 inches above the leading of a tread. The minimum width of any stair serving as a means of egress shall be a minimum of 36 inches.
(d)
Electrical. The building official shall require inspection of the electrical system to ensure compliance with the Rules and Regulations for Manufactured Homes and the 1999 National Electrical Code, as may be subsequently revised.
(e)
Gas. The building official shall require inspection of the gas system to ensure compliance with the 2000 Standard Code as may be subsequently revised.
(f)
Until the above inspections have been completed and the mobile home or manufactured home is found to be in compliance with all applicable codes, no permanent power may be installed, and no occupancy shall be permitted. Occupancy is permitted upon issuance of the certificate of occupancy.
(Ord. No. 2002-07, § 2, 4-9-2002; Ord. No. 2002-14, § 4—7, 7-9-2002)
Sec. 5-10. - Additional administrative procedures.
The planning commission is authorized to establish other administrative procedures so the regulations can be more effectively and consistently applied. The zoning administrator is authorized to address situations where the ordinance does not indicate a procedure, provided the planning commission at the next regular meeting ratifies such action.
(Ord. No. 2002-07, § 2, 4-9-2002)
