ARTICLE VI. - DOWNTOWN DEVELOPMENT AUTHORITY[8]

Footnotes:
--- (8) ---
Editor's note— Ord. No. 127, § 1, adopted Dec. 11, 2001, created a new art. VI of this chapter entitled "Downtown Development Authority." Sections 2—11 of the ordinance added new provisions to art. VI as §§ 2-202—2-211; said provisions have been redesignated as §§ 2-251—2-260, at the editor's discretion, in order to provide for reserved sections in art. V for future use.

Sec. 2-251. - Statement of findings.
It has been determined by the mayor and council of the city that:
(1)
There exists an urgent need to provide incentives for the investment of funds for the revitalization and redevelopment of the central business district of the city.
(2)
Adequate financing for the revitalization and redevelopment of the central business district of the city cannot be provided through the ordinary operation of private enterprise, and the involvement of a public agency as herein contemplated in such an undertaking would not be competitive with private enterprise.
(3)
The Downtown Development Authorities Law (Georgia Laws 1981, p. 1744 et seq., codified as O.C.G.A. tit. 36, ch. 42, hereinafter sometimes referred to as the "Act"), which was enacted by the General Assembly of the State of Georgia, creates for every municipal corporation in the state a public body corporate and politic to be known as the downtown development authority of such municipal corporation, which shall consist of a board of seven directors to be appointed by the governing body of such municipal corporation.
(4)
The mayor and council have determined that there is a need for a downtown development authority to function in the city to aid in the financing of projects for the revitalization and redevelopment of the central business district of the city which will develop and promote for the public good and general welfare trade, commerce, industry and employment opportunities within the city and the state.
(5)
The mayor and council, after a thorough study and investigation, have determined that it is desirable and necessary that a downtown development authority be activated immediately to function in the city with all the powers granted to such authorities under said Act to issue revenue bonds, notes and other obligations for the purpose of providing funds to finance the cost of revitalization and redevelopment of the central business district of the city, all as more fully set forth in said Act.
(Ord. No. 127, § 2, 12-11-01)
Sec. 2-252. - Declaration of need.
There is determined and declared to be a pressing and existing need for a downtown development authority to function in the city in accordance with the terms and provisions of the Downtown Development Authorities Law for the purpose of providing a means of financing of projects for the revitalization and redevelopment of the central business district of the city, thereby promoting the public good and general welfare of the residents of the city and the state.
(Ord. No. 127, § 3, 12-11-01)
Sec. 2-253. - Activation of authority.
There is activated the public body corporate and politic to be known as the "Downtown Development Authority of the City of Hampton" (hereinafter referred to as the "authority"), which authority was created pursuant to the Downtown Development Authorities Law, Georgia Laws 1981, p. 1744 et seq. A true and correct copy of the Act shall be attached to the ordinance codified in this article and by this reference thereto same is incorporated herein and made a part hereof.
(Ord. No. 127, § 4, 12-11-01)
Sec. 2-254. - District designated.
The central business district of the city is designated as the downtown development district of the city as required by section 3 of the Act, and said area and district are geographically constituted as shown in Exhibit A, attached to the ordinance codified in this article, and available for public inspection in the office of the city clerk, and expressly incorporated herein [by reference] and made a part hereof.
(Ord. No. 127, § 5, 12-11-01)
Sec. 2-255. - Appointment of members.
(a)
There are elected as the initial members of the board of directors of the authority the following named persons, each of whom is a taxpayer residing in the city, as follows:
EXPAND
Name Term
Wayne Sisco 2 years
Pat Tyson 3 years
Wade Brewer 4 years
Mike Tomarchio 4 years
Gayla Nobles 6 years
Euleen Smith 6 years
Gary Joiner 6 years
  (b)
Upon expiration of said terms, each member thereafter shall serve a four-year term; provided, however, that if one director is a member of the city council, he or she shall only serve as a director while a member of the city council.
(Ord. No. 127, § 6, 12-11-01)
Sec. 2-256. - Term of members.
Effective with the date of the adoption of the ordinance codified in this article (Ordinance No. 127) each of said persons named as directors above shall serve in such capacity for the number of years set forth opposite their respective names; and if, at the end of any term of office of any director, a successor thereto shall not have been elected as hereinafter provided, then the director whose term of office shall have expired shall continue to hold office until his successor shall be elected, except as otherwise provided for in this article. No person shall receive any compensation for serving as a director, but a director may be reimbursed for his actual expenses incurred in the performance of his duties.
(Ord. No. 127, § 7, 12-11-01)
Sec. 2-257. - Residency requirement of directors.
(a)
Directors shall be:
(1)
Taxpayers residing in the city;
(2)
Owners or operators of businesses located within the downtown development area and who shall be taxpayers residing in Henry County; or
(3)
Persons having a combination of the qualifications specified in paragraphs (1) and (2) of this subsection; provided, however, that one of such directors may be a member of the city council.
(b)
In the event a director at any time ceases to meet the criteria established in subsection (a) of this section, his eligibility to serve as a director shall cease and his appointment as a director shall end.
(c)
Notwithstanding subsections (a) and (b) of this section, one director appointed to the board may reside outside the county; provided, however, that such appointed director owns a business within the downtown development area and is a resident of the State of Georgia. If subsequently to his appointment to the board pursuant to this subsection, the director ceases to own a business within the downtown development area or reside in the State of Georgia, such director shall relinquish his seat on the board.
(Ord. No. 127, § 8, 12-11-01; Ord. No. 406 , § 1,5-12-15)
Sec. 2-258. - Organization; powers; duties.
The board of directors hereinbefore elected shall organize itself, carry out its duties and responsibilities and exercise its powers and prerogatives in accordance with the terms and provisions of the Act as it now exists and as same may hereafter be amended or modified.
(Ord. No. 127, § 9, 12-11-01)
Sec. 2-259. - Copy furnished to state.
The city clerk is directed to furnish to the secretary of state a certified copy of this resolution in compliance with the mandate set forth in section 3 of the Act.
(Ord. No. 127, § 10, 12-11-01)
Sec. 2-260. - Effective date.
This article shall be effective immediately upon its adoption by the mayor and council and from and after such adoption, the authority shall be deemed to be duly created and activated and shall have perpetual existence.
(Ord. No. 127, § 11, 12-11-01)
Sec. 2-261. - Action by resolution subsequent to activating authority.
The city council, pursuant to the provisions of O.C.G.A. § 36-42-6, may, by proper resolution adopted subsequent to the activation of the authority:
(1)
Change its designation of the downtown development area to a geographical area within the city which, in the judgment of the city council, constitutes the central business district, provided that any such change in the downtown development area shall be effective prospectively from the adoption of the resolution providing therefor and shall not affect any project of, or any action taken by, the authority within or with respect to the downtown development area as defined prior to such change becoming effective;
(2)
Appoint directors of the authority which the city council is authorized to appoint; and
(3)
Disapprove any proposed issue of revenue bonds, notes, or other obligations of the authority, in the manner provided in O.C.G.A. § 36-42-1 et seq.
(Ord. No. 273, § 1, 5-8-07)
Secs. 2-262—2-290. - Reserved.
