ARTICLE II. - CITY COUNCIL[2]
Footnotes:
--- (2) ---
Charter reference— Governing body of city, § 2.10 et seq.; removal of mayor, council members, § 5.30 et seq.

DIVISION 1. - GENERALLY

Sec. 2-31. - Chairman.
(a)
The mayor shall act as chairman and is responsible for the orderly conduct of the meeting. In order to fulfill this duty, the mayor shall enforce the rules of procedure that are adopted by the city council. The mayor shall be impartial and conduct the meetings in a fair manner. The mayor may not introduce motions or second a motion except that the mayor may introduce or second a motion to go into executive session as authorized by section 2-38. The mayor shall not vote except to break a tie.
(b)
Points of order. All procedural rulings of the mayor are subject to appeal to the council by the raising of a point of order by any council member. If a council member raises a point of order, then the council may overturn any such ruling of the mayor by a majority vote of council members present (excluding the mayor, except in the case of a tie vote).
(Ord. No. 222, § 1, 1-10-06)
Sec. 2-32. - Vice-chairman.
(a)
The mayor pro-tem shall act as vice-chairman. The mayor pro-tem shall fulfill the duties of the mayor if the mayor is not in attendance.
(b)
If the mayor and the mayor pro-tem are absent and a quorum is present, the remaining council members shall select a council member to serve as temporary chairman of the meeting until either the mayor or mayor pro-tem is present at the meeting.
Sec. 2-33. - Committees.
The mayor may create committees of members of the council to study any issue before the council. Any such committees may make recommendations to the city council but no committee shall be empowered to make any final decision on any matter before it for consideration. In addition to council members, committees may include other city officials, staff or citizens at large. Whenever a committee is created, its duties, any litigation on the scope of its duties, and the times, places and periods of time for which the committee may operate shall be determined by the mayor with the concurrence of the council. The mayor shall serve as an ex officio member of all committees.
Sec. 2-34. - Open meetings.
All meetings of the city council shall be held in accordance with the provisions of O.C.G.A. § 50-14-1 et seq. The public shall at all times be afforded access to all meetings other than executive sessions.
Sec. 2-35. - Regular meetings.
(a)
The city council shall meet on the second Tuesday of each month. The city council will hold a regular meeting beginning at 6:30 p.m.
(b)
Public comment shall be recognized on the agenda as noted in section 2-45 of this same Chapter for a maximum time of 30 minutes allowing each speaker to speak for up to three minutes. Public comment will also be allowed during each agenda item prior to the council's vote for total of 12 minutes where each speaker will be allowed up to three minutes to speak. If additional time is needed, the Mayor or mayor pro tempore has the authority to allow for additional time not to exceed a total of 45 minutes for the first public comment portion of the meeting. During the public comment section for each agenda item, the mayor or mayor pro tempore may grant additional time at his/her discretion. All public comment shall be conducted in accordance with the decorum policy. A synopsis of any proposed ordinance or resolution shall be available to the citizens at the council meeting. Any item on the agenda may be referred to a committee for study and recommendation by the mayor, subject to approval of the majority of council if an objection is raised by any council member; and provided that any item or items referred to a committee may still be acted on by council at its discretion at any regular or special meeting of council.
(c)
At the beginning of each regular meeting of council, the council members may prepare a consent agenda by unanimous vote and act on the same as a single item.
(Ord. No. 27, 7-8-75; Ord. No. 171, § 1, 10-8-02; Ord. No. 219, § 1, 1-10-06; Ord. No. 289, § 1, 1-2-08; Ord. No. 345, § 1, 8-17-10; Ord. No. 385 , § 1, 2-14-14; Ord. No. 409 , § 1, 7-14-15; Ord. No. 450 , § 1, 7-10-18; Ord. No. 456 , § 1, 8-14-18; Ord. No. 499 , § 1, 1-14-20)
Sec. 2-36. - Special meetings and rescheduled regular meetings.
A regular meeting may be canceled, rescheduled or moved to a new location within the city by the mayor for any reason. Other special meetings may be scheduled by the mayor or at the request of two council members. Whenever a rescheduled regular meeting or any other special meeting is to be held at a time or place other than the regularly scheduled time or place, written notice of the change shall be posted for at least 24 hours at the place of the regular meetings. In addition, written or oral notice shall be given by the clerk at least 24 hours in advance of the meeting to either the legal organ of the city or a newspaper having a general circulation at least equal to that of the legal organ and to each member of the city council.
Sec. 2-37. - Emergency sessions.
When emergency circumstances occur, the council may hold a meeting with less than 24 hours' notice to the public. When such meetings are to be held, the clerk shall provide notice to the legal organ of the city or a newspaper with a general circulation at least equal to that of the legal organ and to each member of the city council as soon as possible. The notice shall include the subjects expected to be considered at the meeting. In addition, the minutes shall reflect the reason for the emergency meeting and the nature of the notice given to the media.
Sec. 2-38. - Executive sessions.
(a)
Executive sessions of the city council may be held for the purpose of conducting business excepted from public access requirements as authorized by O.C.G.A. §§ 50-14-2 and 50-14-3. Where a meeting of the council is devoted in part to matters within the authorized exceptions to public access requirements, any portion of the meeting not subject to any such exceptions shall be open to the public. No executive session shall be held except pursuant to a majority affirmative vote of the city council taken in a public meeting.
(b)
The minutes of the public meeting shall reflect the names of the council members present, those voting for the executive session and the specific reasons for the executive session. Minutes of the executive session may be maintained by the city clerk at the direction of the mayor. Any such minutes shall be maintained in a confidential file and shall not be subject to disclosure, except that disclosures of such portions of minutes identifying real estate to be acquired by the council may only be delayed until such time as the acquisition of the real estate has been completed, terminated, or abandoned or court proceedings have been initiated.
Sec. 2-39. - Quorum.
A quorum, as defined in the Charter as the mayor and four members of council or the mayor pro-tem and three members of council, must be present for conducting all meetings of the council. It is the duty of the mayor to enforce this rule. Any council member may raise a point of order directed to the mayor if he or she believes that a quorum is not present. If, at the beginning of a meeting or during the course of a meeting, one or more council members leave and a quorum does not exist, the meeting cannot start or continue. If a quorum is not attained within 30 minutes, the meeting will be rescheduled by the mayor with the approval of the council members present.
(Ord. No. 219, § 3, 1-10-06; Ord. No. 378, § 1, 3-5-13)
Sec. 2-40. - Voting; majority.
Passage of a motion shall require the affirmative vote of a majority of council members present and voting at a meeting at which a quorum is present. Unless otherwise specified in these procedures, a majority shall mean more than one-half of the council members present excluding abstentions and excluding the mayor (except in the case of a tie). Where a two-thirds majority is specified, a majority vote shall mean at least two-thirds of the council members present excluding abstentions and excluding the mayor (except in the case of a tie vote). Upon a tie vote, the mayor shall vote to break the tie.
(Ord. No. 222, § 2, 1-10-06)
Sec. 2-41. - Abstentions.
A council member shall vote on all motions unless he has a conflict of interest which would prevent him from making a decision in a fair and legal manner. If a conflict of interest does exist, the council member shall explain for the record his decision to abstain on any vote. Additionally, all council members must comply with the requirements of O.C.G.A. § 36-67A-2 regarding disclosure of conflicts of interests in zoning actions.
Sec. 2-42. - Agenda.
(a)
The city manager, or the city clerk in the absence of the city manager, with the advice of the mayor and the council members, shall prepare an agenda of subjects to be acted on for each meeting. The agenda, along with all supporting documentation, shall be made available to the council members no later than 12:00 noon the Friday preceding the next council meeting. At the same time, a copy of the agenda shall be posted at City Hall.
(b)
The mayor, members of the council and the city manager may have any item placed on the agenda, and the public may request that a particular subject be placed on the agenda for the following meeting. To be considered, all items to be placed on the agenda must be submitted in writing, along with all supporting documentation, to the city clerk, and received prior to 5:00 p.m. on the Wednesday preceding the next council meeting. All items received in accordance with the time lines shall be placed on the agenda for the council meeting.
(c)
The order of the agenda may be changed during a meeting by a majority vote of the council. A new subject or item may be added to the agenda during a meeting by an affirmative vote of five members of the council.
(Ord. No. 64, 6-12-90; Ord. No. 219, § 2, 1-10-06)
Sec. 2-43. - Consent agenda.
(a)
A consent agenda may be prepared by the city clerk for the council to unanimously adopt motions on routine items. Any items of business that are expected to receive unanimous approval and where no debate is expected may be placed on a consent agenda.
(b)
At the appropriate time of the meeting, the mayor shall read all of the items on the consent agenda. If a council member objects to an item being on the consent agenda, the mayor shall move that particular item to the regular agenda. Following the reading of the consent agenda, the mayor will ask for unanimous approval of the items on the consent agenda. If there are no objections, all the items on the consent agenda will be adopted by unanimous consent.
Sec. 2-44. - Minutes.
(a)
The city clerk shall promptly record the minutes for each council meeting. The minutes serve as the official written record of the council meeting and shall be open for public inspection once approved as official by the council but in no case later than immediately following the next regular meeting of the council. The minutes shall specify the names of council members present at the meeting, a description of each motion or other proposal made at the meeting, the council member who proposed each motion, the council member who seconded each motion, and a record of all votes. In the case of a roll-call vote, the name of each council member voting for or against a proposal shall be recorded. It shall be presumed that a council member has voted in the affirmative unless the minutes show otherwise. More detailed information may be included in the minutes at the request of the council.
(b)
The council must approve the minutes before they can be considered as an official record of the council. A copy of the minutes from the previous meeting shall be distributed to the council members at least one business day before the following meeting. The minutes of the previous meeting shall be corrected and approved by the council at the beginning of each meeting. A majority vote is required for approval. Conflicts about the content of the minutes shall be decided by majority vote. Upon being approved, the minutes shall be signed by the mayor and attested to by the city clerk.
Sec. 2-45. - Order of business.
All regular council meetings shall follow an established order of business. The order is as follows:
(1)
Call to order.
(2)
Invocation.
(3)
Pledge.
(4)
Minutes.
(5)
Invited guests.
(6)
Public comments
(7)
Reports from committees and departments.
(8)
Old business.
(9)
Consent agenda.
(10)
New business.
(11)
Positive happenings.
(12)
Adjournment.
(Ord. No. 188, § 1, 10-12-04; Ord. No. 498 , § 1, 1-14-20)
Sec. 2-46. - Decorum.
(a)
All council members must conduct themselves in a professional and respectful manner. All remarks should be directed to the mayor and not to individual council members, staff or citizens in attendance. Personal remarks are inappropriate. A council member is not allowed to speak at a meeting until he has been recognized by the mayor. All comments made by a council member shall address the motion that is being discussed.
(b)
The mayor shall enforce these rules of decorum. If a council member believes that a rule has been broken, he can raise a point of order. A second is not required. The mayor can rule on the question or he may allow the council to debate the issue and decide the issue by majority vote.
Sec. 2-47. - Public participation.
(a)
Public participation in meetings of the city council shall be permitted in accordance with rules to be set by the council by resolution.
(b)
The council may schedule public hearings for the purpose of soliciting public comment on any subject of interest to the council. Hearings may be held immediately prior to or following a meeting of the council or at such other places and times as the council may determine. No official action shall be taken at any such public hearing.
Sec. 2-48. - Amendments to rules.
Any amendments to the rules of order must be submitted by a council member in writing to the city clerk three business days before a regular meeting of the council. The proposed amendment shall be included in the agenda for that meeting and distributed to all council members. All amendments require a two-thirds vote of the council to be adopted.
Sec. 2-49. - Suspending the rules of order.
Rules of order may be suspended in the case of an emergency. A motion to suspend the rules requires a second, is debatable and requires a two-thirds vote of the council. Rules governing quorum, voting methods and requirements, the notification to council members of meetings, and rules necessary for compliance with state law cannot be suspended.
Sec. 2-50. - Visual and sound recordings.
Visual, sound, and visual and sound recordings shall be permitted for all public meetings.
Sec. 2-51. - Rules of procedure.
All meetings will be conducted in accordance with Robert's Rule(s) of Order.
(Ord. No. 231, § 1, 3-14-06; Ord. No. 450 , § 2, 7-10-18)
Secs. 2-52—2-90. - Reserved.
DIVISION 2. - LEGISLATION[3]

Footnotes:
--- (3) ---
Charter reference— Ordinances, § 2.34 et seq.

Sec. 2-91. - Legislative authority generally.
The city council shall exercise the legislative functions of the city, and may pass any ordinance or resolution that it deems best for the government of the city; provided, however, that such ordinance or resolution is not in conflict with the Charter of the city, the constitution or the laws of the state, or the Constitution or the laws of the United States.
Sec. 2-92. - Ordinances, resolutions, contracts and interlocal agreements.
Unless otherwise provided in this Code, all ordinances, resolutions, contracts and interlocal agreements of the city shall be prepared, approved, introduced and adopted in the manner provided in this division.
Sec. 2-93. - Preparation of ordinances.
Whenever possible, all ordinances shall be prepared by the city attorney.
Sec. 2-94. - Reserved.
Editor's note— Ord. No. 292, § 1, adopted Jan. 18, 2008, repealed § 2-94, which pertained to introduction of ordinances, resolutions and other matters.
Sec. 2-95. - Action restricted; emergencies.
No ordinance shall be put on its final passage on the same day on which it is introduced, except that where an emergency exists and public health and safety require it, an ordinance containing a full statement of the facts and reasons for the emergency may be made effective upon its adoption, if approved by the council.
Sec. 2-96. - Reading of ordinances.
Each ordinance shall be read at two meetings of the mayor and council except where section 2-95 regarding an emergency applies.
(Ord. No. 292, § 2, 1-18-08)
Sec. 2-97. - Subject matter of ordinances.
No ordinance shall relate to more than one subject, which shall be clearly expressed in its title, and no ordinance, or section of such ordinance, shall be amended or repealed unless the new ordinance contains the title of the ordinance or section amended or repealed, and when practicable, all ordinances shall be introduced as amendments to this Code.
Sec. 2-98. - Adoption of ordinances, resolutions, etc.
An ordinance, resolution or contract shall be deemed adopted or approved when it receives an affirmative vote of a majority of the whole council.
Sec. 2-99. - Effective date of ordinances.
Except where otherwise provided in the city's Charter, an ordinance shall take effect immediately after its adoption by the city council and approval by the mayor.
(Ord. No. 414 , § 1, 2-9-16)
Secs. 2-100—2-115. - Reserved.
