ARTICLE V. - FINANCE[6]
Footnotes:
--- (6) ---
Cross reference— Taxation, ch. 78.

DIVISION 1. - GENERALLY[7]

Footnotes:
--- (7) ---
Charter reference— Finance and fiscal provisions, § 6.10 et seq.

Sec. 2-176. - Fiscal year.
The fiscal year of the city shall be from October 1 of each year through September 30 of the following year.
(Ord. No. 27, 7-8-75; Ord. No. 225, § 1, 2-14-06)
Cross reference— Occupation taxes, § 22-31 et seq.
Sec. 2-177. - Budgets.
(a)
An operating budget and a capital improvements budget shall be prepared as set forth in the City Charter each year by the city manager and submitted to the mayor, who shall further submit the budgets to the city council with such recommendations as he deems fitting.
(b)
The city manager, or in the absence of a city manager, the assistant city clerk, shall call for a workshop to review the current year budget at least quarterly. This review shall be separate from the following year budget preparation activity.
(Ord. No. 27, 7-8-75; Ord. No. 190, § 1, 12-14-04)
Sec. 2-178. - Purchasing procedures.
Purchasing procedures for the city shall be as set forth in regulations passed by resolution of the city council.
(Ord. No. 27, 7-8-75)
Sec. 2-179. - Reimbursement of actual and necessary expenses.
The city hereby authorizes reimbursement of, or payment for, actual and necessary expenses incurred by council members, department heads, and various personnel.
(Ord. No. 164, § 1, 8-13-02)
Sec. 2-180. - Collection of delinquent accounts.
(a)
The city manager shall have the authority to refer any delinquent account with the city for collections, including the use of a private collection agency which has in effect at the time a valid contract with the city.
(b)
Any costs incurred by the city in the collection of a delinquent account, including, but not limited to, costs assessed to the city by any private collection agency, shall be added to the current amount owed to the city by the delinquent account holder and collected in the same manner.
(c)
Nothing contained in this section shall limit any other right the city has to collect monies owed it, and the authority granted herein shall be cumulative to any other right and remedy that may be provided elsewhere in this Code.
(Ord. No. 291, § 1, 1-18-08)
Secs. 2-181—2-195. - Reserved.
DIVISION 2. - CLAIMS AGAINST CITY

Sec. 2-196. - All in writing, form.
All claims for damage or loss against the city are to be in writing, attested to under oath, and signed and dated by the claimant. If a claim is submitted by a claimant's representative, the claimant must nevertheless attest to and sign the claim. The claim is to be addressed to the mayor and council, and shall be entitled "Notice of Claim."
(Ord. No. 66, § 1, 7-7-90)
Sec. 2-197. - Delivery of notice.
All notices of claims are to be hand delivered to the city clerk, who shall date stamp the receipt on the notice of claim itself. Alternatively, the claim may be mailed to the attention of the city clerk, by registered mail, return receipt requested, and the city clerk shall date stamp the receipt of each notice of claim on the notice itself.
(Ord. No. 66, § 2, 7-7-90)
Sec. 2-198. - Content of notice.
All notices of claims filed under this division shall describe in detail:
(1)
The date, time and place of the incident or loss in question.
(2)
The identity of any city employees or officials involved or connected in any way with the incident or loss.
(3)
The nature of the incident allegedly resulting in the damage or loss.
(4)
The dollar amount of the claimant's alleged injury or loss.
(5)
A description of all meetings or discussions between the claimant and any city employee or official wherein the claim was discussed or investigated, including:
a.
The date and place of the meeting or discussion.
b.
The identity of each and every city employee or official involved in the meeting or discussion.
c.
A description of any statements or representations made by any city employee or official.
(Ord. No. 66, § 3, 7-7-90)
Sec. 2-199. - Accompanying documents in support of claim.
Each notice of claim shall be accompanied by any and all receipts, estimates, appraisals, bills, invoices or other documents upon which the claimant relies in support of his claim for damage or loss.
(Ord. No. 66, § 4, 7-7-90)
Sec. 2-200. - Official custodian of notices, file.
(a)
The city clerk is hereby designated as the official custodian of all notices of claims. The city clerk shall maintain a file, which shall include an index of each notice of claim received by the city. The index shall be maintained in two separate forms:
(1)
By the claimant's last name (including the date received); and
(2)
By chronological order received (i.e., by date received).
(b)
The original of each notice of claim and all accompanying documents thereto shall be kept in the notice of claim file.
(Ord. No. 66, § 5, 7-7-90)
Sec. 2-201. - Procedure upon receipt of notice.
Upon receipt of a notice of claim, the city clerk shall apprise the claimant of any deficiencies in the form or content thereof; the city clerk may return any notice of claim not in substantial compliance with this division, and shall maintain a written record of all notices of claims so returned. Upon receipt of each notice of claim in compliance with this division, and after indexing same in the notice of claim file, the city clerk shall immediately transmit a copy of the notice of claim (together with any accompanying documents) to:
(1)
The mayor and council.
(2)
The city attorney.
(3)
The agent for each insurance company that may possibly have coverage for the loss or claim (by certified mail, return receipt requested).
(Ord. No. 66, § 6, 7-7-90)
Secs. 2-202—2-250. - Reserved.
