Chapter 46 - SOLID WASTE[1]
Footnotes:
--- (1) ---
Editor's note— Pursuant to O.C.G.A. § 12-8-31.1, the city is included in a multijurisdictional solid waste management plan prepared by the Butts County Solid Waste Management Authority dated August 25, 1992, for Butts County, Jackson, Jenkinsburg and Flovilla.
Cross reference— Buildings and building regulations, ch. 14; environment, ch. 34; litter control, § 34-171 et seq.; utilities, ch. 66.
State Law reference— Georgia Comprehensive Solid Waste Management Act, O.C.G.A. § 12-8-20 et seq.; local, multijurisdictional and regional solid waste plans, O.C.G.A. § 12-8-31.1; authorization to provide garbage and solid waste collection and disposal, Ga. Const. art. IX, § II, ¶ III(a)(2).

ARTICLE I. - IN GENERAL

Secs. 46-1—46-30. - Reserved.
ARTICLE II. - COLLECTION AND DISPOSAL[2]

Footnotes:
--- (2) ---
State Law reference— Scrap tire disposal restrictions, O.C.G.A. § 12-8-40.1; yard trimmings disposal restrictions, O.C.G.A. § 12-8-40.2; Litter Control Law, O.C.G.A. § 16-7-40 et seq.; transporting garbage or waste across state or county boundaries without permission, O.C.G.A. § 36-1-16; littering highways, O.C.G.A. § 40-6-249; transportation of medical waste, O.C.G.A. § 40-6-253.1.

Sec. 46-31. - Curbside limited waste collection services supplied by city or waste collection franchisee; fees.
(a)
The city shall provide limited waste collection services at curbside for consumers, in the following categories:
(1)
Vegetation waste. Vegetation waste shall be defined as tree limbs, leaves, shrubs, brush trimmings, and grass, taken from the property at which curbside service is being provided at no charge to customers. Limbs, trees, or parts of trees removed from the property by contractors will not be removed by the city. All contractors must make arrangements for disposal of trees or limbs before commencing work.
(2)
Discarded furniture. Discarded furniture shall not include metal furniture, appliances or large items of electronic equipment. Customers will be charged a reasonable fee to be determined by the city based upon the reasonable cost of providing disposal service for the discarded furniture.
(b)
The city and/or a waste collection franchisee shall also provide limited waste collection services at curbside for consumers in the following category: rubbish, defined as printed matter, paper, pasteboard, rags, straw, used and discarded clothing, used and discarded shoes and boots, ashes, cinders, floor sweepings, glass, mineral or metallic substances, combustible waste pulp, and other products which are used for packaging or wrapping crockery and glass. Customers may be charged a fee to be determined by the city based upon the reasonable cost of providing the disposal service.
(c)
The city and/or a waste collection franchisee shall provide the services described in subsections (a) and (b) of this section only to those city customers who select the curbside waste collection and pay a monthly fee, as set forth in the schedule of fees and charges, to either the city or to the city's franchisee. Those city customers not selecting the curbside collection from either the city or the city's franchisee and not paying a monthly fee to either the city or the city's franchisee will be charged an additional fee of $200.00 for the services described in subsections (a) and (b) of this section.
(Ord. No. 96-7, §§ I—III, 1-2-1996; Ord. of 4-19-2016 ; Ord. of 8-6-2019(2) )
Sec. 46-32. - Waste collection franchisee; fee required; enumeration of waste materials not covered by fee.
After the city has contracted with a waste collection franchisee, the name, location and telephone number of franchisee shall be made available to all citizens. Each city utility customer selecting the service directly from the city shall pay a monthly fee as set forth in the schedule of fees and charges for curbside waste collection to the city, and the city shall pay a monthly fee from such monthly fees to the franchisee for weekly curbside collection of garbage properly disposed of in carts or containers provided by the franchisee. The monthly fee paid by the customer does not include collection of the types of waste material described in this section. Citizens or residents must contract directly with a waste disposal franchisee or otherwise privately handle disposal of these types of waste material:
(1)
Bulky waste. Bulky waste shall include stoves, refrigerators, water tanks, clothes dryers, television sets, washing machines, and other similar items.
(2)
Construction debris. Construction debris, whether discarded by a homeowner, occupant, or professional contractor, shall include waste building materials resulting from construction, remodeling, repair, or demolition operations.
(3)
Hazardous waste. Hazardous waste includes waste, in any amount, which is defined, characterized or designated as hazardous by the United States Environmental Protection Agency or appropriate state agency by or pursuant to federal, state or local law, or waste, in any amount, which is regulated under federal, state or local law. The term "hazardous waste" shall also include batteries, tires, petroleum products, paint and paint cans, except completely empty paint cans, and such items containing chlorofluorocarbon refrigerants or freon.
(4)
Dead animals. All animals, large or small.
(Ord. No. 96-7, § IV, 1-2-1996; Ord. of 4-19-2016 )
Sec. 46-33. - Duties and responsibilities of real estate owners or occupants concerning collection.
Owners of real estate or occupants of real estate within the city limits shall have the following duties and responsibilities concerning waste collection:
(1)
Placement at curbside; removal; violation constitutes littering; exceptions. A garbage curbside collection franchisee shall notify its customers of the time that it will empty carts or containers. It will be the customer's responsibility to place a cart at curbside prior to collection and to remove the cart from curbside after collection. If any residential cart is left at curbside or upon the city's right-of-way for more than 48 hours following the day of cart trash collection by the franchisee, such act shall be an act of littering. Any owner or occupant of real estate cited for a violation of this section may show as a defense extenuating circumstances which make strict enforcement unreasonable, such as extreme weather conditions, absence from the city for a reasonable period of time, or temporary physical disability. Persons with long-term physical disability are required to contract with a franchisee for backdoor collection, or contract privately for moving the cart.
(2)
Bulky waste, construction debris and hazardous waste; separate contract required; accumulations constitute littering. Those items described in section 46-32 as bulky waste, construction debris, hazardous waste and dead animals are items which the city will not collect, and a waste disposal franchisee is not required to collect for the monthly fee automatically added to city utility bills or the monthly fee billed directly by the franchisee. Any owner or occupant of premises within the city that has such waste to dispose of must either contract directly with a franchisee or privately remove such waste. If any such waste is allowed to accumulate on private premises or allowed to remain at curbside for a period of ten days, such accumulation shall be an act of littering.
(3)
Accumulation of solid waste constitutes littering. Each city utility customer not selecting the curbside waste collection service directly from the city or the city's franchisee and not paying a monthly fee either directly to the city or to the city's franchisee, who allows any type of solid waste to accumulate on private premises or allows it to remain at curbside for a period of ten days, shall be guilty of an act of littering.
(4)
Citation for littering; penalty for violation of section. When any act of littering is committed in violation of this article, a citation may be issued to any owner of the premises, whether or not the owner is in actual possession of the premises, or any occupant of the premises who is either a head of household or a manager or officer of a business. Separate citations for littering may be issued to as many persons as are deemed responsible by virtue of this article. Such citations shall be tried before the municipal court of the city. Violators of this section shall, upon conviction, be punished as provided in section 1-11
(Ord. No. 96-7, § V, 1-2-1996; Ord. of 4-19-2016 )
Sec. 46-34. - On-site dumpster requirements.
The city council hereby requires that all subdivisions of three or more lots where construction is occurring shall be required to have one on-site dumpster or use of a dump truck and a porta-toilet, and for each additional five lots or fractions thereof where construction is occurring, an additional dumpster or dump truck and a porta-toilet shall be required.
(Ord. No. 99-11, 12-7-1999; Ord. of 4-19-2016 )
Editor's note— Ord. No. 99-11, adopted December 7, 1999, did not specifically amend the Code; hence, inclusion as § 46-34 was at the discretion of the editor.
Cross reference— Subdivisions, ch. 54.
Secs. 46-35—46-44. - Reserved.
ARTICLE III. - YARD TRIMMINGS

Sec. 46-45. - Purpose.
The purpose of this article is to prohibit the inclusion of yard trimmings in municipal solid waste; to establish the manner of sorting, storing, composting and collecting yard trimmings; to provide penalties; and for other purposes.
(Ord. No. 96-34, 10-15-1996; Ord. of 4-19-2016 )
Sec. 46-46. - Definitions.
Commercial solid waste. All types of solid waste generated by stores, offices, restaurants, warehouses and other nonmanufacturing activities, excluding residential and industrial wastes.
Composting. The controlled biological decomposition of organic matter into a stable, odor-free humus.
Leachate collection system. A system at a landfill for collection of the leachate which may percolate through the waste and into the soils surrounding the landfill.
Municipal solid waste. Any solid waste derived from households, including garbage, trash and sanitary waste in septic tanks and includes solid waste from single-family and multifamily residences, hotels and motels, bunkhouses, campgrounds, picnic grounds, and day use recreation areas. The term includes yard trimmings and commercial solid waste but does not include solid waste from mining, agricultural or silvicultural operations or industrial processes or operations.
Municipal solid waste disposal facility. Any facility or location where the final deposition of any amount of municipal solid waste occurs, whether or not mixed with or including commercial or industrial solid waste, including but not limited to municipal solid waste landfills.
Municipal solid waste landfill. A disposal facility where any amount of municipal solid waste, whether or not mixed with or including commercial waste, industrial waste, nonhazardous sludge's or small quantity generator hazardous waste, is disposed of by means of placing an approved cover thereon.
Yard trimmings. Leaves, acorns, brush, grass clippings, shrub and tree pruning's, discarded Christmas trees, nursery and greenhouse vegetative residuals, and vegetative matter resulting from landscaping development and maintenance, other than mining, agricultural and silvicultural operations.
(Ord. No. 96-34, art. I, 10-15-1996; Ord. of 4-19-2016 )
Sec. 46-47. - Placement and disposal of yard trimmings; prohibitions.
(a)
It shall be unlawful to place or mix yard trimmings with municipal solid waste within the city.
(b)
Yard trimmings shall not be disposed of at any municipal solid waste disposal facility having a liner and leachate collection system or requiring vertical expansion located within the city.
(Ord. No. 96-34, art. II, 10-15-1996; Ord. of 4-19-2016 )
Sec. 46-48. - Collecting yard trimmings.
Yard trimmings shall be sorted and stored in the following manner: vegetation waste, which shall be defined as tree limbs, leaves, acorns, shrubs, brush trimmings, and grass, taken from the property at which curbside service is being provided, items must be cut less than six 6 feet in length. Shall be picked up at curbside by the city for consumers paying the monthly fees. Excluding limbs, trees, or parts of trees removed from the property by contractors, all contractors must make arrangements for disposal of trees or limbs before commencing work.
(Ord. No. 96-34, art. III, 10-15-1996; Ord. of 4-19-2016 )
Sec. 46-49. - Penalties.
Any person violating section 46-48 of this article shall be punished by a fine not to exceed $1,000.00, by imprisonment for a term not to exceed six months or both.
(Ord. No. 96-34, art. IV, 10-15-1996; Ord. of 4-19-2016 )
