ARTICLE X. - WEAPONS

Sec. 42-231. - Definitions.
The following words, terms and phrases, when used in this article, shall have the meanings ascribed to them in this section, except where the context clearly indicates a different meaning:
Public gathering includes, but shall not be limited to, athletic or sporting events, churches or church functions, political rallies or functions, publicly owned or operated buildings or establishments at which alcoholic beverages are sold for consumption on the premises.
School safety zone means in, on or within 1,000 feet of any real property owned by or leased to any public or private elementary school, secondary school or school board and used for elementary or secondary education and in, on or within 1,000 feet of the campus of any public or private technical school, vocational school, college, university or institution of postsecondary education.
Weapon means and includes any pistol, revolver or any weapon designed or intended to propel a missile of any kind, or any dirk, bowie knife, switchblade knife, ballistic knife or any other knife having a blade of three or more inches, straight-edge razor, spring stick, metal knucks, black jack, any bat, club or other bludgeon-type weapon, or any flailing instrument consisting of two or more rigid parts connected in such a manner as to allow them to swing freely, which may be known as a nunchahka, nunchuck, nunchaku, shurirken or fighting chain, or any disc of whatever configuration, having at least two points or pointed blades which is designed to be thrown or propelled and which may be known as a throwing star or oriental dart or any weapon of like kind, and any stun gun or taser as defined in O.C.G.A. § 16-11-106(a).
(Ord. No. 96-13, art. I, 5-7-1996)
Cross reference— Definitions generally, § 1-2.
Sec. 42-232. - Carrying at schools and public gatherings.
Except as otherwise provided herein, it shall be unlawful for any person to carry to or to possess or have under such person's control while within a school safety zone or at a school building, school function, or school property, or on a bus or other transportation furnished by the school, any weapon or explosive compound. Further, it shall be unlawful for any person to carry to or to possess or have under such person's control any weapon or explosive compound while at a public gathering.
(Ord. No. 96-13, art. II, 5-7-1996)
Sec. 42-233. - Exemptions.
The provisions of this article shall not apply to:
(1)
Baseball bats, hockey sticks or other sports equipment possessed by competitors for legitimate athletic purposes.
(2)
Participants in organized sport shooting events or firearm training courses which have been properly permitted in advance by the city council.
(3)
Persons participating in military training programs conducted by or on behalf of the armed forces of the United States or the state department of defense.
(4)
Persons participating in law enforcement training conducted by a police academy certified by the Georgia Peace Officer Standards and Training Council or by a law enforcement agency of the state, or the United States or any political subdivision thereof.
(5)
The following persons, when acting in the performance of their official duties or when en route to or from their official duties:
a.
A peace officer as defined by O.C.G.A. § 35-8-2;
b.
A law enforcement officer of the United States government;
c.
A prosecuting attorney of this state or of the United States;
d.
An employee of the state department of corrections or a correctional facility operated by a political subdivision of this state or the United States who is authorized by the head of such correctional agency or facility to carry a firearm;
e.
A person employed as a campus police officer or school security officer who is authorized to carry a weapon in accordance with O.C.G.A. title 20, chapter 8 (O.C.G.A. § 20-8-1 et seq.), and
f.
Medical examiners, coroners and their investigators who are employed by the state or any political subdivision thereof.
(6)
A person who has been authorized in writing by a duly authorized official of the school to have in such person's possession or use as part of any activity being conducted at a school building, school property or school function, a weapon which would otherwise be prohibited by this article. Such authorizations shall specify the weapon which has been authorized and the time period during which the authorization is valid.
(7)
A person who is licensed in accordance with O.C.G.A. § 16-11-129 or issued a permit pursuant to O.C.G.A. § 43-38-10, when such person carries or picks up a student at a school building, school function or school property, or on a bus or other transportation furnished by the school or any weapon legally kept within a vehicle in transit through a designated school zone by any person other than a student.
(8)
A weapon which is in a locked compartment of a motor vehicle or one which is in a locked container in or a locked firearms rack which is on a motor vehicle which is being used by an adult over 18 years of age to bring to or pick up a student at a school building, school function or school property or on a bus or other transportation furnished by the school, or when such vehicle is used to transport someone to an activity being conducted on school property which has been authorized by a duly authorized official of the school; provided, however, that this exception shall not apply to a student attending such school.
(9)
Persons employed in fulfilling defense contracts with the government of the United States or agencies thereof when possession of the weapon is necessary for the manufacture, transport, installation and testing under the requirements of such contract.
(10)
The employees of the state board of pardons and paroles when specifically designated and authorized in writing by the members of the state board of pardons and paroles to carry a weapon.
(11)
The attorney general and those members of his staff whom he specifically authorizes in writing to carry a weapon.
(12)
Probation supervisors employed by and under the authority of the department of corrections pursuant to O.C.G.A. § 42-8-20 et seq., known as the "State-Wide Probation Act," when specifically designated and authorized in writing by the director of the division of probation.
(13)
Public safety directors of municipal corporations.
(14)
State and federal trial and appellate judges.
(15)
United States attorneys and assistant United States attorneys.
(16)
Clerks of the superior courts.
(17)
Teachers and other school personnel who are otherwise authorized to possess or carry weapons, provided that any such weapon is in a locked compartment of a motor vehicle or one which is in a locked container in or a locked firearms rack which is on a motor vehicle.
(Ord. No. 96-13, art. III, 5-7-1996)
Sec. 42-234. - Persons who reside or work within school safety zones.
This article shall not prohibit any person who resides or works in a business or is in the ordinary course of transacting lawful business or any person who is a visitor of such resident located within a school safety zone from carrying, possessing or having under such person's control, a weapon within a school safety zone; provided, however, it shall be unlawful for any such person to carry, possess or have under such person's control while at a school building or school function, or on school property, a school bus or other transportation furnished by the school, or at a public gathering, any weapon or explosive compound.
(Ord. No. 96-13, art. IV, 5-7-1996)
Sec. 42-235. - Certain actions not defense to prosecution.
It shall be no defense to a prosecution for a violation of this article that:
(1)
School was or was not in session at the time of the offense;
(2)
The real property was being used for other purposes besides school purposes at the time of the offense; or
(3)
The offense took place on a school vehicle.
(Ord. No. 96-13, art. V, 5-7-1996)
Sec. 42-236. - Map as admissible evidence.
In a prosecution under this article, a map produced or reproduced by the city for the purpose of depicting the location and boundaries of the area on or within 1,000 feet of the real property of a school board or a private or public elementary or secondary school that is used for school purposes, or within 1,000 feet of any campus of any public or private technical school, vocational school, college, university or institution of postsecondary education, or a true copy of the map, shall, if certified by the city clerk as a true copy, be admissible and shall constitute prima facie evidence of the location and boundaries of the area, provided the city council has approved the map as an official record of the location and boundaries of the area. The prosecutor shall not be precluded from introducing or relying upon any other evidence or testimony to establish any element of this offense, nor from using any map or diagram other than the one which has been approved by the city council.
(Ord. No. 96-13, art. VI, 5-7-1996)
Sec. 42-237. - Discharging firearms.
It shall be unlawful for any person, without legal justification, to discharge any firearm within the city limits or at any location where the projectile so discharged could be reasonably expected to enter the geographical or corporate limits of the city.
(Ord. No. 96-13, art. VII, 5-7-1996)
Sec. 42-238. - Discharging air guns, air pistols or bows.
It shall be unlawful for any person to discharge any air gun or air pistol, or any longbow, crossbow or any other type of bow designed to discharge arrows, in any of the streets or sidewalks of the city or in any of the lots thereof unless permission for the discharge of such devices has been given to the person discharging such device by the owner of the property on which such devices are discharged, and unless the discharging of such device is so controlled that no pellet, shot, arrow or any matter so discharged shall cross the property line of the person granting such permission.
(Ord. No. 96-13, art. VIII, 5-7-1996)
Sec. 42-239. - Offenses involving persons under 18.
(a)
Notwithstanding any other provision of this article and except as otherwise provided in this article, it shall be unlawful for any person under the age of 18 years to possess or have under such person's possessive control a pistol or revolver, whether loaded or unloaded.
(b)
It shall be unlawful for any person intentionally, knowingly or recklessly to sell or furnish a pistol or revolver to any person below the age of 18 years.
(c)
It shall be lawful for a person under the age of 18 years to possess a pistol or revolver only if such person is:
(1)
Attending a hunter education course or a firearms safety course;
(2)
Engaging in practice in the use of a firearm or target shooting at an established range authorized by the governing body of the jurisdiction where such range is located;
(3)
Engaging in an organized competition involving the use of a firearm or participating in or practicing for a performance by an organized group under 26 USC 501(c)(3) which uses firearms as part of such performance;
(4)
Hunting or fishing pursuant to a valid license if such person has in his possession such a valid hunting or fishing license if required; is engaged in legal hunting or fishing; has permission of the owner of the land on which the activities are being conducted; and the pistol or revolver, whenever loaded, is carried only in an open and fully exposed manner; or
(5)
Traveling to or from any activity described in subsections (c)(1) through (4) of this section if the pistol or revolver in such person's possession is not loaded.
(d)
It shall be unlawful for any person to intentionally and without legal justification point or aim at another any gun, pistol, or other weapon as defined by this article. For purposes of this offense, it shall be irrelevant whether such firearm pointed at another was loaded or unloaded.
(Ord. No. 96-13, art. IX, 5-7-1996)
Sec. 42-240. - Concealed weapons.
(a)
A person commits the offense of carrying a concealed weapon when he knowingly has or carries about his person any weapon or instrument of like character outside of his home or place of business, unless such weapon or instrument of like character is being carried in an open manner and fully exposed to view.
(b)
This section shall not permit, outside of his home, motor vehicle or place of business, the carrying of a pistol, revolver or concealed firearm by any person unless he has on his person a valid license issued under O.C.G.A. § 16-11-129, and the pistol, revolver or firearm may only be carried in a shoulder or waist belt holster, hipgrip or in any other similar device, handbag, purse, attache case, briefcase or other closed container. Carrying on the person in a concealed manner other than as provided in this section shall not be permitted and shall be a violation of this section.
(c)
This section shall not forbid the transportation of any firearm by a person who is not among those enumerated as ineligible for a license under O.C.G.A. § 16-11-129, provided the firearm is enclosed in a case, unloaded and separated from its ammunition. This section shall not forbid the transportation of a loaded firearm in any private passenger motor vehicle in an open manner and fully exposed to view or in the glove compartment of the vehicle.
(Ord. No. 96-13A, art. III, 6-4-1996)
Sec. 42-241. - Penalty.
Any person committing any violation of this article may be prosecuted in the municipal court of the city or in any other state or federal court at the discretion of the prosecutor. Any person convicted of any violation of this article in the municipal court of the city shall be punished as provided in section 1-11.
(Ord. No. 96-13, art. X, 5-7-1996; Ord. No. 96-13A, art. IV, 6-4-1996)
Secs. 42-242—42-254. - Reserved.
