Chapter 11.68 - TRANSPORT OF HYDROCYANIC ACID
Sections:

11.68.010 - Transport—Closed passenger vehicles prohibited—Number of operators.
It is unlawful for any person, firm or corporation to haul, carry or transport, or to cause or permit to be hauled, carried or transported, any liquid hydrocyanic acid (HCN) along, over or across any public highway or public way in the county of Los Angeles in or upon any closed vehicle which is used or designed or intended to be used as a passenger vehicle. No vehicle, while being used for the hauling, carrying or transporting of liquid hydrocyanic acid shall be operated upon any such highway or way unless such vehicle is in charge of some adult person who shall be accompanied by at least one other person of the age of 16 years or more.
(Ord. 1585 § 1, 1928.)
11.68.020 - Transport vehicle—Specifications—Sign requirements.
Each vehicle or trailer in which liquid hydrocyanic acid is being hauled, carried or transported upon any such public highway or way shall be equipped with substantial side and tail boards not less than 20 inches in height, and each container containing any liquid hydrocyanic acid shall be firmly secured to the vehicle or trailer in which it is being transported in such a manner as to prevent such container from rolling or shifting within, or being thrown or pitched from, such vehicle or trailer. The rear end of any such vehicle or trailer shall be painted white and shall bear the legend "DANGER—INFLAMMABLE—KEEP YOUR DISTANCE" painted thereon in red letters of not less than three inches in height, or in lieu of such painting and lettering, each such vehicle or trailer shall have firmly and securely attached to the rear end thereof, and plainly visible from behind such vehicle or trailer, a white placard or sign bearing said legend in red letters of not less than three inches in height.
(Ord. 1585 § 2, 1928.)
11.68.030 - Transport vehicle—Stops at railroad crossings.
Each vehicle, while transporting liquid hydrocyanic acid, shall be brought to a full stop at each railroad, interurban or streetcar crossing, and the driver thereof shall proceed across such crossing only after having made certain that such vehicle or trailer may be safely driven across the railroad, interurban or streetcar track.
(Ord. 1585 § 3, 1928.)
11.68.040 - Transport vehicle—Trailer parking restrictions.
Each trailer, while being used for hauling, carrying or transporting any liquid hydrocyanic acid, shall be coupled to the vehicle to which it is attached by means of a substantial bracket attached to such trailer, at least two points, in such a manner as to effectually prevent the swaying or side whipping of such trailer. No hydrocyanic acid gas nor liquid hydrocyanic acid, nor any vehicle or trailer containing the same, shall be allowed to stand within a distance of 15 feet of the traveled portion of any public highway or way.
(Ord. 1585 § 4, 1928.)
11.68.050 - Violation—Penalty.
Any person, firm or corporation violating any provision of this chapter shall be deemed guilty of a misdemeanor, and upon conviction thereof shall be punishable by a fine of not to exceed $500.00 or by imprisonment in the County Jail for not to exceed six months, or by both such fine and imprisonment.
(Ord. 1585 § 5, 1928.)
