Chapter 12.28 - BRUSH AND VEGETATION
Sections:

12.28.010 - Title for citation.
The ordinance codified in this chapter shall be known as the "brushing ordinance," and may be so cited.
(Ord. 9106 § 1, 1966.)
12.28.020 - Definitions.
As used in this chapter:
A.
"Natural vegetation" means the native plants, grasses, shrubs and trees and roots thereof having the characteristic of intercepting, holding and more slowly releasing rainfall than bare earth surfaces.
B.
"Parcel" or "land" means a contiguous quantity of land, in the possession of or owned by, or recorded as the property of the same claimant or person.
C.
"Person" means any individual, firm, copartnership, joint adventure, association, social club, fraternal organization, corporation, estate, trust, business trust, receiver, syndicate, or any other group or combination acting as a unit, and the plural as well as the singular number.
D.
"Shall" is mandatory; "may" is permissive.
E.
"Sloping terrain" means any ground surface having a grade of eight percent or more. The latest available six and seven and one-half minute United States Geological Survey quadrangles or a survey by a registered civil engineer or licensed land surveyor shall be utilized to determine such grade.
(Ord. 9106 §§ 2-6, 1966.)
12.28.030 - Removal or destruction of natural vegetation prohibited—Exception.
No person shall remove or destroy, or cause the removal or destruction of natural vegetation on sloping terrain within the unincorporated territory of the county of Los Angeles without first obtaining written approval from the county engineer of the county so to do.
(Ord. 9106 § 9, 1966.)
12.28.040 - Exceptions to chapter applicability.
The provisions of this chapter shall not apply to, and written approval from the county engineer is not required for:
A.
The removal or destruction of vegetation on land under one ownership or control if such removal or destruction is limited to an area not exceeding two and one-half acres within any 12-month period;
B.
The removal or destruction of vegetation within 150 feet of a building or structure whose construction would require a permit under provisions of the Building Code (set out at Title 26 of this code) or the provisions on small dams set out at Chapter 11.62 of this code;
C.
The removal or destruction of vegetation by public utilities on rights-of-way or property owned by such utility, or on land providing access to such rights-of-way or property;
D.
The removal or destruction of vegetation on publicly owned rights-of-way for roads, highways, flood-control projects or other similar or related uses;
E.
The removal or destruction by or for a public agency of vegetation from firebreaks used to control the spread of fire;
F.
The removal or reduction of vegetation by the department of forester and fire warden, or by a person acting in compliance with a specific order of that department;
G.
Work performed under a grading permit issued under the provisions of the Building Code (set out at Title 26 of this code) when the work includes precautionary measures to control erosion and flood hazards during the prosecution of such work.
(Ord. 9106 § 10, 1966.)
12.28.050 - Approval to perform work—Submittal of request—Contents.
Prior to the removal or destruction of vegetation regulated by this chapter, the owner or person in control of the land, or the agent or either, shall submit a written request to the county engineer for approval to perform the work. Such request shall include a description of the property and be accompanied by a map showing the topography of the land and the location of any drainage courses; the location and extent of the proposed work; and details of the precautionary measures or devices to be used to prevent erosion and flood hazards, including if necessary, a drainage plan by a civil engineer showing routing of runoff, estimate of quantity and frequency of runoff, character of soils, and channel sections and gradients.
(Ord. 9106 § 11, 1966.)
12.28.060 - Approval to perform work—Fee schedule.
At the time of submitting the written request for approval, the applicant shall pay to the county engineer a fee based on the area of land to be cleared of vegetation according to the following table:
EXPAND
Table A
Area Fee
Not exceeding 10 acres $10.00
More than 10 but not over 50 acres 25.00
More than 50 but not over 100 acres 50.00
More than 100 acres $50.00 plus $2.50 for each 10 acres or fraction thereof of over 100 acres.
  (Ord. 9106 § 12, 1966.)
12.28.070 - Approval to perform work—Issuance conditions.
The county engineer shall issue a written approval for all or a portion of the proposed work when he is satisfied that the performance of such work will not result in a flood or erosion hazard to this or other properties, the required fee has been paid, and the proposed work conforms with the requirements of other laws or ordinances. In granting any approval under this chapter, the county engineer may attach such conditions thereto as are reasonably necessary to prevent a flood or erosion hazard. These conditions may include but shall not be limited to:
A.
A limitation on the time of year when the removal or destruction of vegetation is performed; and
B.
A requirement that certain protective structures or devices be installed in or adjacent to drainage courses to control downstream transportation of silt or debris; and
C.
The method to be used in the removal or destruction of vegetation and the sequence of such operation; and
D.
A requirement that the area cleared be replanted with approved plants to provide protection against erosion damage.
(Ord. 9106 § 13, 1966.)
12.28.080 - Work performance conditions.
The person to whom the written approval is granted shall perform the work, including the installation of all precautionary measures or devices that may be required, in accordance with all terms and conditions of the approval and within the period of time stipulated therein, if so conditioned.
(Ord. 9106 § 14, 1966.)
12.28.090 - Violation—Penalty.
Any person violating any of the provisions of this chapter shall be deemed guilty of a misdemeanor, and each such person shall be deemed guilty of a separate offense for each and every day or portion thereof during which any violation of any of the provisions of this chapter is committed, continued or permitted, and upon conviction of any such violation such person shall be punishable by a fine of not more than $500.00 or by imprisonment for not more than six months, or by both such fine and imprisonment.
(Ord. 9106 § 15, 1966.)
12.28.100 - Severability—Elimination of exceptions.
A.
If any portion of the ordinance codified in this chapter or the application thereof to any person or circumstances is held invalid, the remainder of the ordinance and the application of such provision to other persons or circumstances shall not be affected thereby.
B.
Should any exception to the provisions of the ordinance codified in this chapter be held invalid, such exception shall be eliminated from the ordinance.
(Ord. 9106 §§ 7 and 8, 1966.)
