Appendix C - SUBDIVISIONS[1]
Footnotes:
--- (1) ---
Editor's note— Printed herein is the city's subdivision ordinance, being an ordinance adopted on August 17, 2022. Amendments are indicated by parenthetical history notes following amended provisions. The absence of a history note indicates that the provision remains unchanged from the original. Obvious misspellings have been corrected without notation. For stylistic purposes, a uniform system of headings and catchlines has been used. Additions made for clarity are indicated by brackets.

ARTICLE 1. - GENERAL PROVISIONS

Sec. 1.1. - Title.
These regulations shall officially be known, cited, and referred to as the Subdivision Regulations of Watkinsville (hereinafter "these regulations").
Sec. 1.2. - Application.
These regulations control the subdivision and development of land within the incorporated portions of Watkinsville, Georgia, as specified herein. These regulations, among other things, require and regulate the preparation of preliminary plats and final plats for the subdivision of land; regulate multi-family and nonresidential projects; address development permits; establish minimum design and construction standards for subdivision, streets, and improvements; set forth the procedure to be followed in applying these regulations; provide penalties for violation of these regulations; and set forth other matters pertinent to the development of land. No person shall divide or subdivide or cause a subdivision, including Multi-family and nonresidential projects, to be made, within the boundaries of incorporated Watkinsville, except in conformity with these regulations.
Sec. 1.3. - Policy.
1.
It is the policy of the city to consider subdivision of land and subsequent development as subject to the control of the city per the zoning and comprehensive plan of the city for the orderly, planned, efficient, and economical development of the city.
2.
Land to be subdivided must be safe for building purposes without danger or peril from any menace, and land shall not be subdivided until adequate public facilities exist and proper provision has been made for drainage, water, sewerage, and capital improvements such as schools, parks, recreational facilities, transportation facilities, and improvements.
3.
The existing and proposed public improvements shall conform to and be properly related to the comprehensive plan, official zoning map, and the capital budget and program of the city, and these regulations shall supplement and facilitate the enforcement of the provisions and standards in building and housing codes, zoning ordinances, the comprehensive plan, official zoning map and land use plan, and the capital budget and program of the city.
4.
Land subdivided prior to the effective date of these regulations should, when possible, be brought within the scope of these regulations to further the purposes of the regulations.
Sec. 1.4. - Purposes.
1.
To protect the public health, safety, and general welfare of the city.
2.
To guide the future growth and development of the city per the comprehensive plan.
3.
To provide for adequate light, air, and privacy, to secure safety from fire, flood, and other dangers, and to prevent overcrowding of the land and undue congestion of population.
4.
To protect the character and the social and economic stability of the city and encourage orderly and beneficial development of the community through appropriate growth management techniques assuring the timing and sequencing of development, promotion of infill development in existing neighborhoods and non-residential areas with adequate public facilities, to assure open space separation of urban areas, and to protect environmentally critical areas and areas premature for urban development.
5.
To minimize the conflicts among the uses of land and buildings.
6.
To guide development in order to provide adequate and efficient transportation, water, sewerage, schools, parks, playgrounds, recreation, and other public requirements and facilities.
7.
To provide the most beneficial relationship between the uses of land and buildings and the circulation of traffic throughout the city, having particular regard to the avoidance of congestion in the streets and highways and the pedestrian traffic movements appropriate to the various uses of land and buildings, and to provide for location and width of streets and building lines.
8.
To establish reasonable standards of design and procedures for subdivisions, to further the orderly layout and use of land.
9.
To ensure that public facilities and services are available concurrent with development and will have a sufficient capacity.
10.
To ensure the community will bear no more than its fair share of the cost of providing the facilities and services, through requiring the developer to pay fees, furnish land, or establish mitigation measures to ensure the development provides its fair share of capital facilities needs generated by the development.
11.
The prevent pollution; to assure the adequacy of drainage; to safeguard the water table, and to encourage the wise use and management of natural resources throughout the city to preserve the integrity, stability, and beauty of the community and the value of the land.
12.
To preserve the natural beauty and topography of the city and to ensure appropriate development with regard to these natural features.
13.
To provide for open spaces through the most efficient design and layout of the land.
14.
To ensure land is subdivided only when market demand exists and it is in the public interest.
15.
To prevent inappropriate subdivision, including premature subdivision, excess subdivision, partial or incomplete subdivision, and scattered and low-grade subdivision.
Sec. 1.5. - Authority.
These regulations are adopted per the Constitution of Georgia. The city is vested with the authority to review, approve, conditionally approve, or disapprove applications of the subdivision of land, including preliminary and final plats.
Sec. 1.6. - Jurisdiction.
1.
These regulations apply to all subdivision of land, as defined below.
2.
No land may be subdivided or sold through the use of any legal description other than with reference to a plat approved by the city per these regulations.
3.
The city can review and approve, conditionally approve, or disapprove the development of lands subdivided prior to or following the effective date of these regulations as follows, whether the lots are owned by the original subdivider or an immediate or remote grantee from the original subdivider, if:
a.
The plat was recorded without the prior approval of the city and the plat has contiguous lots in common ownership where one or more lots are undeveloped;
b.
The plat was not approved after the effective date of these regulations and has contiguous lots in common ownership where one or more of the contiguous lots are undeveloped;
c.
The plat was approved after the effective date of these regulations and has contiguous lots in common ownership where one or more of the contiguous lots is undeveloped and one or more is nonconforming under the zoning ordinance.
4.
No land shall be subdivided or sold, leased, transferred, or developed until each of the following conditions has occurred per these regulations:
a.
The subdivider or his agent has obtained from the city approval of a preliminary plat, construction plans and final plat; and
b.
The subdivider or his agent files the approved plats with the Clerk of the Oconee County Superior Court, as appropriate.
5.
No building permit or certificate of occupancy shall be issued for any land subdivided after the effective date hereof, unless in compliance with these subdivision regulations. No excavation of land or construction of improvements shall take place except per these regulations.
Sec. 1.7. - Interpretation, conflict.
1.
Interpretation. These regulations shall be held to be the minimum requirements for the promotion of the public health, safety, and general welfare. These regulations shall be construed broadly to promote the purposes for which they are adopted.
2.
Public provisions. These regulations are not intended to interfere with, abrogate, or annul any other ordinance, rule or regulation, statute, or other provision of law except as expressly provided in these regulations. Where any provision of these regulations imposes restrictions different from those imposed by any other provision of these regulations or any other ordinance, rule or regulation, or other provision of law, the provision which is more restrictive or imposes higher standards shall control.
3.
Private provisions. These regulations are not intended to abrogate any easement, covenant or any other private agreement or restriction, but where these regulations impose higher standards or regulations than such easement, covenant, or other private agreement or restriction, these regulations shall govern.
Sec. 1.8. - Public purpose.
Regulation of the subdivision of land and the attachment of reasonable conditions to land subdivision is an exercise of valid police power delegated by the state to this city. The developer must comply with reasonable conditions by the city for design, dedication, improvement, and restrictive use of the land to conform to the physical and economic development of the city and to the health, safety, and general welfare of the future lot owners in the subdivision and of the community at large.
Sec. 1.9. - Enforcement, violations, and penalties.
1.
General.
a.
It shall be the duty of city staff or designee to enforce these requirements.
b.
No owner, or agent of the owner, of any land in a proposed subdivision shall transfer or sell any part before a final plat has been approved by the city per these regulations and filed with the Clerk of the Superior Court of Oconee County.
c.
No building permit shall be issued for any structure on a lot subdivided or sold in violation of these regulations. Nor shall the city issue certificates of occupancy or extend utility services to any parcel created in violation of these regulations.
2.
Violations and penalties. Any person who violates these regulations shall be subject to a fine in accordance with chapter 24, offenses and miscellaneous provisions, of this Code. Each day a violation continues is a separate offense.
3.
Civil enforcement. Appropriate actions and proceedings may be taken in law or in equity to prevent any violation of these regulations, to prevent unlawful construction, to recover damages, to restrain, correct, or abate a violation and to prevent illegal occupancy of a structure or premises. These remedies shall be in addition to the penalties described above.
Sec. 1.10. - Appeals.
1.
Any person aggrieved by an administrative action or interpretation may appeal to the mayor and council. An appeal shall be taken within 30 days of the action or interpretation appealed from, by filing the appeal in writing with the city clerk. An application for an appeal shall include such descriptions, maps or drawings as needed to clearly illustrate or explain the action requested. The city clerk may request additional information from the appellant necessary for a full understanding of appellant's request.
2.
The city manager shall transmit a notice of said appeal to the mayor and council specifying the grounds thereof. Upon receiving a notice of an appeal, the city manager and appropriate staff shall assemble such memos, papers, plans, or other documents as may constitute the record for the appeal or as may provide an understanding of the issues involved.
3.
Once the record has been assembled, the city manager shall schedule unresolved appeals for consideration at the next meeting of the mayor and council for which adequate public notice can be given; and send a letter by first class mail to the applicant or his attorney notifying the appellate of either 1) administrative resolution of the matter or 2) the date, time and place of the public hearing.
4.
An appeal of an administrative decision stays all proceedings in furtherance of the action appealed from, unless the administrative official from whom the appeal is made certifies to the mayor and council that by reason of facts stated in the certificate a stay would, in such administrator's opinion, cause imminent peril to life or property. In such case, proceedings shall not be stayed otherwise than by a restraining order which may be granted by a court of record on application, on notice to the city manager and on due cause shown. Upon submission of a valid application for the granting of an appeal on a property, no permits shall be issued nor shall any actions be undertaken on the property that may be affected by the outcome of such application.
5.
The appellant or representative shall attend all hearings on the appeal. The failure to attend may result in dismissal with prejudice, rejection of the appeal, or continuance of the hearing at the mayor and council's sole discretion. In the case of continuance, failure of the appellant or representative to appear at the second scheduled hearing shall result in automatic dismissal with prejudice.
6.
At the hearing, the appellant may appear in person or may be represented by counsel. The presiding official shall conduct the hearing informally, as strict adherence to the rules of evidence is not required. The appellant shall first present relevant evidence. Then opponents shall present relevant evidence. All parties participating shall have the right to present and cross-examine witnesses. The appellant shall have an opportunity to present rebuttal evidence, but such evidence shall be limited to points or issues raised by the opponents. The hearing shall be tape recorded, either by videotape or by audiotape, in order to provide a verbatim record of the hearing.
7.
Following the hearing, the mayor and council shall make a decision and adopt reasons supporting the decision. Such decision shall reflect the vote of the mayor and council, as follows: In taking action on an appeal, the mayor and council may approve, approve with changes, or deny the request; or table the appeal for consideration at its next scheduled meeting; or allow withdrawal of the appeal at the request of the appellant. The mayor and council may, in conformity with the provisions hereof, reverse or affirm, wholly or partly, or may modify the order, requirement, decision or determination and to that end shall have all the powers of the official from whom the appeal is taken and may issue or direct the issuance of a permit.
8.
In approving an appeal, the mayor and council may impose conditions of approval which it deems necessary in order to make the requested action acceptable and consistent with the purposes hereof and of any other applicable regulations. If a motion to approve an appeal fails, the appeal is automatically denied. If a motion to deny an appeal fails, another motion would be in order. A tie vote on a motion for approval of an appeal shall be deemed a denial of the appeal. A tie vote on any other motion shall be deemed to be no action, and another motion would be in order.
9.
The appellant shall be informed in writing of the decision and the reasons within ten days of the decision. Failure to receive notice within ten days shall not constitute a procedural error, nor affect the decision of the mayor and council. A decision of the mayor and council shall be final and may be appealed only to a court of competent jurisdiction via writ of certiorari. Such writ of certiorari must be taken within 30 days of the decision of the mayor and council.
ARTICLE 2. - DEFINITIONS

Sec. 2.1. - Generally.
The following words and phrases shall have the defined meaning. Terms not defined shall have their customary dictionary definitions where not inconsistent with the context. Words used in the singular number include the plural and those used in the plural number include the singular. Words used in the present tense include the future. The word "person" includes a "firm," "association," "organization," "trust," "company," "LLC," "partnership" or "corporation" as well as an "individual." "Building" includes the word "structure."
For the purposes of these regulations, certain words or terms used herein shall be defined as follows:
a.
The words "road," "street," "highway" and "thoroughfare" have the same meaning with regard to the requirements and restrictions of these subdivision regulations.
b.
The term "such as" introduces one or more examples in illustration of a requirement or point, and is intended to mean "including but not limited to the following."
c.
The terms "include" or "including" when used to introduce a list of items is not intended to be exclusive only to the items on the list, but is intended to mean "including but not limited to the following."
d.
The word "day" means a calendar day unless otherwise specified as a "work" day or "business" day, which mean Monday through Friday exclusive of recognized holidays.
e.
The words "used" or "occupied" include the words "intended, arranged or designed exclusively to be used or occupied by a particular use or function."
f.
References to "county" and board of commissioners and any public officials or appointed bodies of the county not otherwise named by political jurisdiction or defined in these subdivision regulations shall always mean Oconee County, Georgia, and its governing body, appointed or employed officials, and appointed bodies as named. These include:
(1)
The utilities director, the county official appointed as such, or the utilities director's designee.
(2)
Other county officials or employees shall mean the county official or employee appointed as such by their respective department director.
h.
References to other public officials, departments or appointed bodies, unless otherwise specified, shall always mean such persons or bodies having jurisdiction over or relative to Oconee County, Georgia. These include:
(1)
The Clerk of the Superior Court of Oconee County, Georgia.
(2)
The Oconee County Health Department and its Environmental Services Division.
(3)
The Oconee River Soil and Water Conservation District.
(4)
The Northeast Georgia Regional Development Center (RDC).
(5)
The Georgia Departments of Community Affairs (DCA), Transportation (GDOT), Human Resources (DHR), Natural Resources (DNR) and DNR's Environmental Protection Division (EPD).
(6)
The U. S. Army Corps of Engineers, the Federal Aviation Administration (FAA), the Federal Emergency Management Agency (FEMA), the Federal Communications Commission (FCC) and the Environmental Protection Agency (EPA).
Sec. 2.2. - Words and terms defined.
When used in this ordinance, the following words and phrases shall have the meaning in this section:
Sec. 2.3. - Definitions.
Addition to an existing building: Any walled and roofed expansion to the perimeter of a building in which the addition is connected by a common load bearing wall other than a firewall. Any walled and roofed addition, which is connected by a firewall or is separated by independent perimeter load bearing walls, is new construction.
Alteration: Any change, addition or modification in construction of the structural members of a building, such as walls, partitions, columns, beams or girders, any change that results in an addition to the enclosed floor area of a building, or the movement of the building from one location to another.
Applicant: A property owner or their authorized representative who has petitioned for approval of a development permit, building permit, appeal, or any other authorization for the use or development of their property under the requirements of these subdivision regulations, or a person submitting a post-development stormwater management application and plan for approval.
Application: A petition for approval of a development permit, building permit, appeal, or any other authorization for the use or development of a property under the requirements of these subdivision regulations.
Architectural features: Ornamental or decorative features attached to or protruding from an exterior wall, including cornices, eaves, gutters, belt courses, sills, lintels, bay windows, chimneys, and decorative ornaments.
Area of special flood hazard: The land in the floodplain within a community subject to a one percent or greater chance of flooding in any given year.
As-built data drawings: Drawings specifying the dimensions, location, capacities, and operational capabilities of structures and facilities as they have been constructed.
Base flood: The flood having a one percent chance of being equaled or exceeded in any given year (i.e., 100-year flood).
Buffer, landscape: A landscape buffer is an area of natural vegetation or man-made construction that is intended to provide a visual and dimensional separation between dissimilar land uses.
1.
Natural buffer: A visual screen of vegetation of such density as to present an opaque visual separation when viewed from one side to the other throughout the year.
2.
Structural buffer: A visual screen created through a solid wooden fence, decorative masonry wall, earthen berm, or combination of fence or wall with an earthen berm, which may be supplemented with vegetation, so as to present an opaque visual separation when viewed from one side to the other throughout the year.
Buildable area of lot: That portion of a lot bounded by and interior to the minimum required rear, side and front yards as established by the minimum building setback lines for a principal building. It is the area of a lot that building(s) may occupy, and sets the limits of the building footprint now and in the future, as additions must be within said area.
Building Code: The technical codes approved for enforcement or otherwise adopted or adopted as amended by the city under the Georgia Uniform Codes Act, which regulate the construction of buildings and structures.
Building line: The line established by law beyond which a building shall not extend as determined by front, side, and rear yards herein.
Building permit: A written permit to allow construction from the code compliance officer or chief building official.
Building, main: A building in which is conducted the principal use of the lot on which it is situated. Also referred to as a "principal building."
Compatibility: With regard to buildings, compatibility means achieving harmony in appearance of architectural features in the same vicinity.
Concept plan: The "City of Watkinsville Concept Plan, September 2006, as adopted January 10, 2007, and as may be amended, defines 12 character areas within the city and includes the future land use map for the city.
Conceptual layout: A preliminary design which broadly outlines the function and form of a proposed development or project.
Comprehensive plan: The Community Agenda for the Joint Comprehensive Plan 2030 for Oconee County and the cities of Bishop, Bogart, North High Shoals, and Watkinsville, November 30, 2006, and as may be amended.
Condition of zoning approval: A requirement at the time of approval of a rezoning, placing greater or additional requirements or restrictions on the property in order to reduce an adverse impact of the rezoning and to further the protection of the public health, safety, or general welfare.
Construction activity: Activities subject to the Georgia Erosion and Sedimentation Control Act or NPDES Construction Permits. Such activities include but are not limited to clearing and grubbing, grading, excavating, and demolition.
Design professional of record: The licensed professional whose seal appears on plats or plans subject to these regulations.
Detention facility: A basin or structure used for the temporary storage of stormwater runoff for the purpose of controlling the peak discharge and which is designed to completely drain after a specified period of time.
Developer: A person who undertakes land development activities.
Development permit: The authorization necessary to initiate and conduct a land-disturbing activity and to carry out the planned development of land and structures.
Development: The construction, reconstruction, conversion, structural alteration, relocation, or enlargement of any structure; any excavation or land disturbance; and any use or extension of the use of land. It includes any man-made change to improved or unimproved real estate, including, but not limited to, buildings or other structures, mining, dredging, filling, grading, paving, excavating, drilling operations, and permanent storage of materials or equipment; a land development or land development project.
Double frontage lot: A lot having frontage on two streets as distinguished from a corner lot.
Drainage easement: An easement appurtenant or attached to a tract or parcel of land allowing the owner of adjacent tracts or other persons to discharge stormwater runoff onto the tract or parcel of land subject to the drainage easement.
Drainage structure: A device composed of a virtually non-erodible material such as concrete, steel, plastic or other such material that conveys water from one place to another by intercepting the flow and carrying it to a release point for stormwater management, drainage control or flood control purposes.
Driveway grade: The grade of the centerline of driveway measured at its steepest point.
Dwelling: A building or portion thereof which is designed for or used for residential purposes.
Dwelling unit: An enclosure of one or more interconnected rooms, including separate bathroom and kitchen facilities, designed and constructed as a unit for permanent residential occupancy by one family. It provides complete, independent living facilities for one or more persons, including permanent provisions for living, sleeping, eating, cooking, and sanitation constructed to meet the International Building Code as adopted and as may be amended.
Dwelling, single-family: A site built home designed for residential use and occupied exclusively by one family, that meets local building codes and contains one dwelling unit per lot.
Dwelling, multi-family: A residential building in the attached residential district designed exclusively for occupancy by three or more families in separate dwelling units with private entrances living independently of each other. Duplexes are not permitted.
1.
Townhouse: A multi-family dwelling in which the dwelling units may adjoin one another only at the vertical walls and no dwelling unit may be located above another, as shown in the following illustration.
Dwelling, Townhouse
2.
Apartment: A multi-family dwelling in which a dwelling unit may be located above another, as shown in the illustration.
Dwelling, Garden Apartment
Engineer: A registered, practicing engineer, licensed by the State of Georgia.
Existing construction: For the purposes of flood damage prevention requirements, any structure for which the start of construction commenced before adoption of the first flood damage prevention ordinance or regulation in the city.
Family: One or more persons occupying a dwelling unit and living as a single housekeeping unit, as distinguished from persons occupying a boarding house, lodging house, or hotel, as herein defined.
Finished grade: The final elevation and contour of the ground after cutting or filling and conforming to the proposed design.
Flood plain: Any land area susceptible to flooding.
Georgia D.O.T. Standards/Specifications: State of Georgia Standard Specifications - Construction of Transportation Systems, latest edition.
GIS: Geographic information system.
GPS: Global positioning system.
Impervious: A surface composed of any material that significantly impedes or prevents the natural infiltration of water into soil. Impervious surfaces include, but are not limited to, rooftops, buildings, streets and roads, disturbed and compacted soil, and any concrete or asphalt surface.
Land development: Any land change, including, but not limited to, clearing, digging, grubbing, stripping, removal of vegetation, dredging, grading, excavating, transporting and filling of land, construction, paving, and any other installation of impervious cover.
Land development activities: Those actions or activities that comprise, facilitate, or result in land development.
Land development project: A discrete land development undertaking.
Land disturbance permit: Authorization from the local or state regulatory agency to perform construction activities or land disturbance activities in conformance with an approved soil erosion and sediment control plan and/or minimum standards as provided by law.
Land-disturbing activity: Any activity that may result in soil erosion from water or wind and the movement of sediments into state waters or onto lands within the state, including, but not limited to, clearing, dredging, grading, excavating, transporting and filling of land but not including those practices that are exempt under the soil erosion and sedimentation control provisions.
Landscape architect: A registered, practicing landscape architect licensed by the State of Georgia.
Land disturbance permit: Authorization from the local or state regulatory agency to perform construction activities or land disturbance activities in conformance with an approved soil erosion and sediment control plan and/or minimum standards as provided by law.
Landscape materials: Any combination of living plant materials and nonliving materials such as rock, pebbles, wood chips, mulch and pavers, and decorative features, including sculpture, patterned walks, fountains, and pools. Synthetic landscaping materials acceptable to the director of planning may also be used.
Larger common plan of development or sale: A contiguous area where multiple, separate and distinct construction activities are or may be occurring at different times on different schedules under one plan of development or sale. For purposes of this paragraph, "plan" means an announcement; piece of documentation such as a sign, public notice or hearing, sales pitch, advertisement, drawing, permit application, zoning request, or computer design; or physical demarcation such as boundary signs, lot stakes, or surveyor markings, indicating that construction activities may occur on a specific plot.
Lot: A parcel or tract of land held in single or undivided ownership devoted to a common use or occupied by a building or group of buildings devoted to a common use, together with the customary accessories and open spaces belonging to the same, and separate from other parcels, and having a separate tax parcel reference.
Types of Lots
Lot area: The computed ground area inside the lot lines.
Lot coverage: The computed ground area occupied by all buildings within a lot.
Lot line: The boundary dividing a given lot from the street or adjacent lots; the boundary defining the limit of ownership of a property.
1.
Front lot line: Any boundary line of a lot that abuts a street. A lot adjacent to more than one street will have more than one front lot line.
2.
Rear lot line: Any boundary line of a lot that does not intersect with a street right-of-way line and is not a front lot line.
3.
Side lot line: Any boundary line of a lot that intersects with a street right-of-way line and is not a front lot line.
Types of Lot Lines
Lot of record: A lot or parcel of land whose existence, location and dimensions have been recorded in the office of the clerk of the superior court of the county.
Lot width: The distance measured along the front principal building setback line between intersecting lot lines. The lot width shall be measured along a straight line between such points of intersection.
Lot Width Measurements
Lot, depth of: The mean horizontal distance between the front and rear lot lines, measured in the general direction of the side lines of the lot.
Lowest floor: The lowest floor of the lowest enclosed area, including a basement. An unfinished or flood resistant enclosure, used solely for parking of vehicles, building access, or storage, in an area other than a basement, is not considered a building's lowest floor, provided that such enclosure is not built so as to render the structure in violation of other provisions of these subdivision regulations.
Minimum street-side setback: The minimum distance required by the zoning on a property between an adjoining street and the facade of a principal building on the property.
Mulch: Pine straw, pine bark, pebbles, lava rock, processed cypress trees, or synthetic landscaping materials acceptable to the director of planning may also be used. By products of unprocessed grinding operations may not be used for mulching under landscape plants or trees.
Natural ground surface: The ground surface in its original state before any grading, excavation or filling.
New construction: Any structure for which the start of construction commenced after adoption of the first flood damage prevention ordinance or regulation in the city, and includes any subsequent improvements to the structure.
New development: A land development activity on a previously undeveloped site.
One hundred-year flood plain: A land area subject to a one percent or greater statistical occurrence probability of flooding in any given year.
Opaque: Impenetrable to view, or so obscuring to view that features, buildings, structures, and uses become visually indistinguishable.
Open space: Land or water permanently set aside through dedication, designation, or reservation to remain in a natural and unimproved state or that may be improved only for active or passive recreation or enjoyment, resource protection, or buffers. Open space can be defined as:
1.
Common open space: Land or water areas within a development project that are available to or benefit all occupants of the development on a continuing and permanent basis, such as walking trails, community centers or clubhouses, golf courses and other recreation areas, protected flood plains or wetlands, and fishing or boating lakes. Common open space does not include any streets or public or private rights-of-way, or yard areas or landscape areas located on private property.
2.
Public open space: Land reserved for preservation, leisure or recreational use but dedicated in fee simple to a governing body or agency to be responsible for operation and maintenance. Public open space may not be reserved for or dedicated to the exclusive use of the residents of a particular development.
3.
Greenspace: Permanently protected areas of a site that are preserved in a natural state.
Operator: The party(s) with:
1.
Operational control of construction project plans and specifications, including the ability to make modifications to those plans and specifications; or
2.)
Day-to-day operational control of those activities that are necessary to ensure compliance with a stormwater pollution prevention plan for the site or other permit conditions, such as a person authorized to direct workers at a site to carry out activities required by the stormwater pollution prevention plan or to comply with other permit conditions.
Owner: Any individual, firm, association, syndicate, partnership, corporation, trust, or any other legal entity having sufficient proprietary interest in land or other real estate to commence and maintain proceedings for approval of a zoning change, permit or other approval under these subdivision regulations. The term "owner" includes the legal or beneficial owner of a site, including, but not limited to, a mortgagee or vendee in possession, receiver, executor, trustee, lessee or other person, firm, or corporation in control of a site. See also "beneficial owner."
Parcel: A general term including all plots of land shown with separate identification on the official tax appraisal maps. Parcels may or may not be lots, depending upon whether or not such parcels are created as herein provided.
Parking aisle: The traveled way, which is not the public right-of-way, by which cars directly enter and depart parking spaces.
Parking Bay: Three or more parking spaces adjacent to one another and aligned side-by-side.
Parking lot island: A landscaping strip located in a parking lot. Such islands must be sized to allow the plants and trees located within it to grow to their mature size.
Parking lot: A public or private area at grade used for temporarily parking automobiles and other vehicles otherwise in operation for personal or business use.
Parking space: A space identified and set aside for the temporary parking of an automobile or other motor vehicle.
Paved roadway width: The shortest distance as measured from curb face to curb face or, if without curbing, as measured from edge of pavement to edge of pavement.
Person: Any individual, partnership, firm, association, joint venture, public or private corporation, trust, estate, commission, board, public or private institution, utility, cooperative, state agency, municipality or other political subdivision of the state, any interstate body or other legal entity.
Pervious pavement: A hardened surface capable of supporting automobiles and light trucks, constructed of cast-in-place concrete or precast modular concrete pavers, which contains voids that are filled with pervious materials such as sand or grass turf.
Plat, final: A plat of a subdivision of property that is intended to be recorded with the clerk of the superior court of the county.
Plat, preliminary: A plat showing the layout of a proposed subdivision, submitted for approval prior to submission of the final plat.
Plat: A map, plan or layout of a city, city section, subdivision, parcel or lot indicating the location and boundaries of properties.
Post-development: The time period, or the conditions that may reasonably be expected or anticipated to exist, after completion of the land development activity on a site as the context may require.
Pre-development: The time period, or the conditions that exist, on a site prior to the commencement of a land development project and at the time that plans for the land development of a site are approved. Where phased development or plan approval occurs (preliminary grading, roads and utilities, etc.), the existing conditions at the time prior to the first element of construction and/or phase being approved or permitted shall establish pre-development conditions.
Premises: Any building, lot, parcel of land, or portion of land whether improved or unimproved including adjacent sidewalks and parking strips.
Principal building: A building in which the principal use of the lot is conducted, such as a house, an office building, a store or a factory.
Principal building setback line: A line delineating the minimum allowable distance between a property line and a principal building on a lot.
1.
Front building setback: The minimum allowable distance between the right-of-way line of any abutting street and any part of a principal building on a lot. The front setback distance is applied parallel along the full length of the right-of-way line.
2.
Rear building setback: The minimum allowable distance between a rear lot line and any part of a principal building on a lot. The rear building setback extends along and is parallel to the full length of the rear lot line.
3.
Side building setback: The minimum allowable distance between a side lot line and any part of a principal building on a lot. The side building setback extends along and is parallel to the side lot line between the front building setback and a rear building setback (if any).
Principal Building Setback Lines
Principal use: The specific, primary purpose for which land or a building is used, such as residential living, professional services, retail sales or manufacturing.
Private access drive: A driveway that provides access to a public road for not more than three parcels of residential use and five parcels of non-residential use.
Private walkway: That portion of "on-site" development that provides pedestrian access through the site to a building or other destination.
Project:
1.
The entire proposed development project regardless of the size of the area of land to be disturbed.
2.
For stormwater management, see "Land Development Project."
Public improvement: The construction, enlargement, extension or other construction of a facility intended for dedication to the public, including, but not limited to, a street, curb and gutter, sidewalk, cross drain, catch basin, traffic control and street name sign, or other roadway appurtenance other than a driveway apron connection; domestic water supply system main, fire hydrant, valve or other appurtenance other than a supply line to a building; or sanitary sewerage main or outfall, lift station, force main, manhole or other appurtenance other than a drain line from a building.
Public utilities: Water, gas, sanitary sewer, storm sewer, electrical, and communications lines and facilities, and natural or improved drainage facilities.
Qualified personnel: Any person who meets or exceeds the education and training requirements of O.C.G.A. § 12-7-19.
Ramp:
1.
A sloping roadway or passage used to join two different levels of streets, structures or buildings;
2.
Driveways leading to parking aisles.
Redevelopment: A land development project on a previously developed site, but excludes ordinary maintenance activities, remodeling of existing buildings, resurfacing of paved areas, and exterior changes or improvements which do not materially increase or concentrate stormwater runoff, or cause additional non-point source pollution.
Right-of-way line: The dividing line between a lot, tract or parcel of land and a contiguous right-of-way.
Right-of-way: Access over or across described property for a specific purpose or purposes.
Road, controlled access: A state or federal highway (usually median divided) that, by design, may only be accessed from:
1.
Public streets where such access is provided by grade separated interchanges consisting of bridge(s) and ramps so that traffic entering and exiting said highway can safely merge into and exit from the highway at the posted speed limit; or
2.
Public streets where such access is provided at grade level intersections which are designed and permitted by the Georgia DOT as part of the highway construction project; or
3.
Right in/right out only private drives without median cuts and where such private drives are permitted by the Georgia DOT due to extenuating circumstances such as no other means of access. Controlled access roads are distinguished from other state and federal roads in that the private driveway access is the exception to the rule rather than the norm. This definition does not include "limited access roads."
Road, limited access: A median divided state or federal highway which, by design, may only be accessed from public streets and where such access is provided by grade separated interchanges consisting of bridge(s) and ramps so that traffic entering and exiting said highway can safely merge into and exit from the highway at the posted speed limit. This definition does not include "controlled access roads."
Roadway drainage structure: A device such as a bridge, culvert or ditch, composed of a virtually non-erodible material such as concrete, steel, plastic or other such material that conveys water under a roadway by intercepting the flow on one side of a traveled way consisting of one or more defined lanes, with or without shoulder areas, and carrying water to a release point on the other side.
Sediment: Solid material, both organic and inorganic, that is in suspension, is being transported or has been moved from its site of origin by air, water, ice or gravity as a product of erosion.
Sedimentation: The process by which eroded material is transported and deposited by the action of water, wind, ice, or gravity.
Separate storm sewer system: A facility owned or maintained by the city or county, designed, or used for collecting and/or conveying stormwater, including but not limited to roads with drainage systems, streets, curbs, gutters, inlets, catch basins, piped storm drains, pumping facilities, retention and detention basins, natural and man-made or altered drainage channels, reservoirs, and other drainage structures.
Setback, minimum: The shortest distance allowed between a street right-of-way line or any other lot line and any principal or accessory building on a lot. Minimum setback requirements for buildings are associated with the type of lot line from which the setback is taken; for instance, a "side yard setback" is measured from a side lot line.
Setback: The shortest straight-line distance between a street right-of-way or lot line and the nearest point of a structure or building or projection therefrom, measured at 90 degrees to the street or lot line. The "nearest point of a building" includes such projections as sun parlors and covered porches, whether enclosed or unenclosed, but does not include steps and roof overhangs of 18 inches or less.
Shoulder: That portion of a street or road from the outer edge of the paved surface or the back of curb to the inside edge of the ditch or gutter or original ground surface.
Sidewalk: That portion of a street or road available exclusively for pedestrian traffic.
Site: The parcel of land being developed, or the portion thereof on which the land development project is located.
Site development plans: A set of plans, details, and technical specifications for the construction of site improvements that includes, but is not limited to, building footprints, drives, parking, drainage systems, utilities, buffers, landscaping, parking lot lighting, embankments, signage, soil erosion control devices, soil erosion control measures and all other improvements required for the subdivision of land.
Soil and water commission: The Georgia Soil and Water Conservation Commission.
Soil and water district: The Oconee River Soil and Water Conservation District.
Soil and water conservation district approved plan: An erosion and sedimentation control plan approved in writing by the Oconee River Soil and Water Conservation District.
Stabilization: The process of establishing an enduring soil cover of vegetation by the installation of temporary or permanent structures for the purpose of reducing to a minimum the erosion process and the resultant transport of sediment by wind, water, ice or gravity.
Start of construction: The initiation of new construction or a substantial improvement, as follows:
1.
For new construction: The date the development permit was issued, provided the actual start of construction, repair, reconstruction, or improvement was within 180 days of the permit date. The actual start of construction means the first placement of permanent construction of a building, including a manufactured home, on a site, such as the pouring of slabs or footings, installation of piles, construction of columns, or any work beyond the stage of excavation or the placement of a manufactured home on a foundation. Permanent construction does not include land preparation, such as clearing, grading, and filling, nor does it include the installation of streets or walkways; the excavation for a basement, footings, piers or foundations or the erection of temporary forms; nor does it include the installation on the property of accessory buildings, such as garages or sheds not occupied as dwelling units or not part of the main building. (Note: accessory structures are not exempt.)
2.
For a substantial improvement: The date the building permit was issued provided the actual start of construction was within 180 days of the permit date. The actual start of construction means the first alteration of any wall, ceiling, floor, or other structural parts of a building, whether or not that alteration affects the external dimensions of the building.
Street: A public right-of-way or private easement for vehicular traffic, whether designated as a street, highway, thoroughfare, parkway, road, avenue, drive, expressway, freeway, boulevard, lane, place, circle, alley, or otherwise. Various types of streets are as follows:
1.
Arterial: A public way which is used primarily for fast and heavy traffic flow; is of considerable continuity; and is used as a traffic artery for intercommunication among large areas. (ADT greater than or equal to 10,000 vehicles per day)
2.
Major collector: A street which carries traffic from activity centers and minor collector streets to arterial streets and streets of high classification. (ADT between 2,501 and 9,999 vehicles per day)
3.
Minor collector: Principal entrance streets to subdivisions and the main streets for circulation within a subdivision, which serve a network of four or more local streets. Minor collector streets are designed so that traffic circulation in a subdivision would cause such a street to be used as a link between local streets and major collector or arterial streets. (ADT between 251 and 2500 vehicles per day)
4.
Local: A street used primarily in residential subdivisions or within nonresidential developments for access to abutting properties as opposed to the collection and dispersion of traffic. (ADT less than or equal to 250 vehicles per day)
5.
Cul-de-sac: A local street with only one outlet, closed and terminated by a vehicular turnaround.
6.
Alley: A public or private platted service way providing access to abutting properties.
Street grade: The grade of the curb or centerline of a street.
Street, half: A street which does not meet the minimum right-of-way widths in these regulations.
Structural buffer: See under buffer, landscape.
Structure: Anything constructed or erected, the use of which requires a location on the ground, including but not necessarily limited to, buildings, parking lots, patios, pools, decks, well houses, gas or liquid storage tank, canopies, or other manmade facilities or infrastructures.
Subdivider: Any person who undertakes the subdivision of land as herein defined for himself or for another within the confines of the city.
Subdivision: Any division of a tract or parcel of land into two or more lots, building sites, or other divisions for the purpose, whether immediate or future, of sale, legacy or of building development, and including any division of land involving a new street, public or private, or a change in existing streets, and including resubdivision or recombination of previously platted lots, and where appropriate to the context, relating to the process of subdividing or to the land or areas subdivided. Excluded from this definition are plats where no land disturbance, building development or public improvements are proposed. In such case, each lot must meet all size and other requirements of a lot in the applicable zoning district. Review of these excluded plats will be conducted by the city manager, city engineer, and city attorney with approval by the mayor.
Subdivision construction plans: A set of plans, details, and technical specifications for the construction of roads, drainage systems, utilities, embankments, signage, traffic control devices, soil erosion control devices, soil erosion control measures and all other improvements required for the subdivision of land.
Surface water: The surface drainage of water, its management, control, transportation, storage, and disposal.
Surveyor: A registered, practicing surveyor, licensed by the State of Georgia.
Swale: A shallow lineal depression with a parabolic cross-section and gently sloped sides.
Travelway: The paved or otherwise improved portion of a street or road specifically provided and set aside to carry vehicular traffic. Travelways are commonly identified as the pavement between the curbs or between the shoulders of a road if no curbs are provided.
Trench: A narrow excavation made below the surface of the ground. In general, the depth is greater than the width, but the width of a trench is not greater than 15 feet.
Visual screen: Natural vegetation or a decorative structure that creates an opaque visual block or obscures an unattractive view. Screening may consist of any combination of the following, as approved by the code compliance officer: Fencing constructed of cedar, redwood, treated wood, vinyl replicating wood, or other suitable all-weather material; masonry walls of brick or stone; planted or natural vegetation; or earthen berms.
Wastewater: Any water or other liquid discharged from a facility, that has been used, as for washing, flushing, or in a manufacturing process, and so contains waste products.
Water supply reservoir: A governmentally owned impoundment of water for the primary purpose of providing water to one or more governmentally owned drinking water systems. This definition specifically excludes the multipurpose reservoirs owned by the U.S. Army Corps of Engineers.
Water supply watershed: The portion of a watershed upstream of a governmentally owned public drinking water supply intake.
Wetland: An area that is inundated or saturated by surface water or groundwater at a frequency and distribution sufficient to support, and under normal circumstances does support a prevalence of vegetation typically adapted for life in saturated soil conditions, commonly known as hydrophytic vegetation. Wetlands generally include swamps, marshes, bogs, and similar areas.
Wetland delineation: The establishment of wetland boundaries by a representative of the U.S. Army Corps of Engineers or an authority designated by the Corps.
Wetland functions: The beneficial roles that wetlands serve, including: storage, conveyance, and attenuation of floodwater and stormwater; protection of water quality and reduction of erosion; habitat for wildlife, including rare, threatened and endangered species; food chain support for a wide variety of wildlife and fisheries; educational, historical, and archeological value protection; and scenic, aesthetic, and recreational amenities.
Wetland protection area: All wetlands within the jurisdiction of Watkinsville which are indicated on the generalized wetland map as "wetlands providing significant wildlife habitat and/or which may be subject to extensive mitigation."
Wetland, jurisdictional: An area that meets the definitional requirements for wetlands as determined by the U.S. Army Corps of Engineers.
Yard: An area that lies between the principal building on a lot and the nearest lot line.
1.
Front yard: A yard extending the full width of the lot, located between the street line and the front line of a principal building, projected to the side lines of the lot.
2.
Rear yard: A yard extending the full width of the lot and situated between the rear lot line of the lot and the rear of a principal building projected to the side lines of the lot.
3.
Side yard: A yard located between the side of a principal building and the side line of the lot and extending from the rear line of the front yard to the front line of the rear yard.
4.
Court yard: A yard that is semi-enclosed on two or more sides by the walls of a building or structure or the extension of such walls.
Types of Yards
Yield plan: A subdivision plan, similar to a preliminary plat, showing the maximum number of lots which would be permitted if the subject property was developed as a subdivision under these subdivision regulations and other applicable ordinances, specifications and policies. A yield plan shall be based upon accurate topography, boundary survey, level two soil scientist report (or greater) and other information necessary to accurately determine the maximum net density for the subject property under the regulations.
ARTICLE 3. - SUBDIVISION APPLICATION PROCEDURE AND APPROVAL PROCESS

Sec. 3.1. - General procedure.
1.
No land disturbing activity of any kind shall begin on any land subject to these regulations without prior approval of the preliminary plat and construction plans as described hereinbelow, and in the zoning ordinance.
2.
Before any land is subdivided the owner of the property proposed, or his authorized agency, shall apply for and secure approval per the following procedures:
i.
Sketch plat and conceptual layout.
ii.
Preliminary plat.
iii.
Development permit approving the construction plans.
iv.
Final subdivision plat.
Multi-family, commercial and industrial subdivisions shall comply with these regulations.
The sketch plat and conceptual layout requirements are as follows: 24-inch by 36-inch sketch plat and concept plans for review by the mayor and council are required prior to formal initiation of the preliminary plat process. The sketch plat and conceptual layout shall be prepared per accepted professional standards. The mayor and council shall review the sketch plat and conceptual layout within 30 days of submission by the developer. The developer will be notified at least seven days in advance of the date and time of the mayor and council's review of these items.
The developer shall attend the meeting and be prepared to discuss the sketch plat and conceptual layout with the mayor and council. The purpose thereof is to save time and expense in reaching general agreement as to the form of the plat and the substance and parameters of the construction plans and the objectives of these regulations.
Items to be addressed in the preliminary plat and the construction plans include as follows: Compliance with zoning and subdivision and tree regulations, lot footprint and layout, building size, building layout and design (including design details that may help increase marketability and conformity with nearby structures), facade type (for example, masonry construction), building height, flood prevention, paving, curb and sidewalk, utilities, temporary structures, greenspace, recreational amenities, front entrance construction, maximum number and/or density of units, water and sewer lines and water and sewer connections, tree protection, stormwater detention, owners association and restrictive covenants, street lights, street signs, fencing, and vegetative buffer.
Promises and representations made by the developer in the sketch plat and conceptual layout are binding on the developer. The mayor and council shall approve, approve with conditions, or reject the sketch plat and conceptual layout, utilizing the standards and criteria of the subdivision regulations and of the city zoning ordinance. The sketch plat and concept plans shall establish the parameters for the preliminary plat, construction plans and final plat, and the developer shall not depart from these parameters. Approval of the sketch plat and conceptual layout does not constitute approval of the preliminary plat, construction plans or final plat. Nor does it establish any vested rights.
Sec. 3.2. - Responsible parties for application processing, summary table.
The following table summarizes the departments, directors, and others responsible for receiving, administering, reviewing, approving, and permitting various city applications. This chart is not a substitute for the actual text of these regulations, and in the event of any conflict, the actual text of these regulations shall govern. All references to departments shown in the chart below are city departments, unless stated otherwise.
EXPAND
Table 1: Responsible Parties for Reviews and Approvals
Application Application Reviewed by Approval Granted by
Action Submitted to Administered by City
Manager Public Works Utilities Code
Compliance Others Approved by Permit Issued by
Preliminary Plat and Development Construction Plans 1 copy plus a digital version to Code Compliance Officer Code Compliance Officer with assistance from City Engineer X X X X Soil & Water Conservation, Environmental Services, EPD
GDOT, Corps of Eng. City Engineer, City Manager, Mayor and Council City Manager or his/her designee
Final Subdivision Plat
Including the following: Code Compliance Officer Code Compliance Officer with assistance from City Engineer X X X X GDOT, City Engineer, City Manager, Mayor and City Attorney Signed by City Engineer and Mayor
Dedication Deeds & Easements City Clerk City Manager with assistance from City Engineer X City Attorney Mayor and Council
As-Built Data—Streets & Drainage Code Compliance Officer Code Compliance Officer with assistance from City Engineer City Engineer City Engineer
As-Built Data—Water & Sewer Code Compliance Officer Code Compliance Officer with assistance from City Engineer and County Utilities Dept. X City Engineer County Utilities
Stormwater Management Agreement City Clerk City Manager with assistance from City Engineer City Engineer Mayor and City Engineer
Performance/Maintenance Surety—Streets & Drainage Code Compliance Officer Code Compliance Officer with assistance from City Engineer City Attorney and City Engineer Mayor and City Engineer and City Attorney
Performance/Maintenance Surety—Water & Sewer Code Compliance Officer Code Compliance Officer with assistance from City Engineer X City Attorney and City Engineer County Utilities
  Sec. 3.3. - Impact analysis.
A traffic study, hydrology study and other studies of the impact of the subdivision are required prior to preliminary plat approval unless unnecessary for adequate consideration and a fully informed decision. The studies shall be prepared under the direction of the city engineer at the applicant's expense.
Every proposed subdivision capable of generating 1,000 average daily vehicle trips or more than 100 vehicle trip ends during a single hour, or more shall be accompanied by a traffic analysis prepared under guidelines available from the city engineer. Provided, however, if the location of the development warrants a lower threshold, in the judgment of the city engineer, a 500 ADT threshold may be utilized. Anticipated vehicle trips may be based upon the latest edition of trip generation published by the Institute of Transportation Engineers. Negative impacts on area roads and intersections must be minimized in the design of the project. If the traffic analysis shall demonstrate that, following completion of the development, the surrounding roads and affected intersections included in the traffic analysis will operate at an unacceptable level of service during peak traffic flow, considering both projected traffic demand/capacity on the existing system and improvements proposed by the developer, this may be grounds for denial of approval.
Sec. 3.4. - Preliminary plat.
Before preparing the preliminary plat, the applicant shall schedule an appointment and meet with the city engineer and the city manager to discuss the procedure and the requirements. The city manager or his/her designee may advise the applicant to discuss the subdivision with officials who must eventually approve aspects of the subdivision. The preliminary plat shall be prepared by a licensed land surveyor, registered professional engineer or licensed landscape architect.
1.
Application procedure and requirements. The applicant shall file one copy of the plat and application with the code compliance officer plus a digital version. The application shall:
a.
Be made on forms furnished by the city with the fee.
b.
Show all land the applicant proposes to subdivide, including possible unit divisions not scheduled for immediate development, and all land within 200 feet from the subject property, with the names of all owners shown.
c.
Include an affidavit of ownership, which shall show the dates acquired, and the deed book and page. The affidavit shall advise as to the legal owner of the property, the date any contract of sale was executed, and, if any entities are involved, a complete list of all directors, officers, members, partners and stockholders owning more than five percent.
d.
Include an address and telephone number of an agent who shall receive all notices.
f.
Fully comply with these regulations, the zoning ordinance, and other applicable regulations.
g.
Be presented at least 45 days prior to a regular council meeting.
2.
Content. The plat shall be prepared per accepted professional standards. The submittal copies shall be blackline prints on a white background, and the submittal shall include other documents as necessary to meet these regulations. Reference must be made to the legal survey of the parcel. A copy of the survey must be included. The preliminary plat shall be prepared at a maximum scale of one inch equal to 100 feet. The minimum dimension of the sheet size is 11 inches by 17 inches, but additional sheets are encouraged.
The preliminary plat shall accurately address the entire tract and shall contain:
a.
Land district and land lot and acreage.
b.
The location of surrounding property and streets, and the names of all adjoining property owners, adjoining developments, and adjoining streets.
c.
Location sketch.
d.
Index map when more than one sheet is required to present plat.
e.
Courses and distances to the nearest existing street lines, benchmarks or other recognized permanent monuments.
f.
Exact boundary lines of the tract, to be indicated by a heavy line, giving distance to the nearest 0.01 foot and bearings to the nearest second. Tract boundaries shall be determined by accurate survey in the field, and shall be balanced and closed with an error of closure not to exceed one foot in 5,000 feet. The bearing and distance from a first order geodetic control point to the property boundary shall also be shown.
g.
Proposed unit division or stage development, if any.
h.
Contour lines at intervals of not more than two feet, based on field surveys or aerial photographs. The basis for the topographic contour shown shall be specified.
i.
The location of water bodies, streams, and other pertinent features such as swamps, railroads, buildings, parks, cemeteries, drainage ditches, and bridges.
j.
The location and width of all existing and proposed streets and easements, alleys, and other public ways, and easement and proposed street rights-of-way and building setback lines.
k.
The location and dimensions of all property proposed to be set aside for park or playground use, or other reservation, with designation of purpose, and conditions, if any.
l.
The name and address of the owner or owners of land to be subdivided, the name and address of the subdivider if other than the owner, and the name of the land surveyor.
m.
The date of the map, true north point, scale, and title of the subdivision.
n.
Sufficient data to readily determine the location, bearing, and length of all lines, and to reproduce such upon the ground; the location of all proposed monuments.
o.
Name of the subdivision and all new streets as approved by the city.
p.
Indication and location of all uses.
q.
Blocks shall be consecutively numbered including in additions/expansions.
r.
List of underground utilities.
s.
Number and size and footprint of units.
t.
Proposals for connection with existing water and sewage systems.
u.
Provisions for collecting and discharging surface water drainage.
v.
Information and data relating to surface water runoff as it effects stormwater drainage and impact on adjacent areas.
w.
The location of flood hazard areas per FEMA maps.
x.
Zoning of subject property and adjacent property.
y.
Location of all topographical features and slopes and gradients, both present and proposed.
z.
Any changes to be made affecting soil erosion and sedimentation, including information as to soil types, showing the relationship between soil limitations and dwelling density.
aa.
All school and improvement district lines with the zones properly designated.
bb.
Form for endorsement by mayor after public hearing and mayor and council approval as follows:
"Per the Subdivision Regulations and Zoning Ordinance of City of Watkinsville, after review and comments by the city engineer, all the requirements of preliminary approval having been fulfilled, this preliminary plat was given preliminary approval by the Mayor and Council. This preliminary approval does not constitute approval of construction plans nor of a final plat. This certificate of preliminary approval shall expire and be null and void on one year from preliminary approval. This preliminary approval does not authorize grading of property.
___________       _______
Mayor       Date"
Omitted or improper information shall be cause for disapproval.
3.
Rules and regulations. In addition to these regulations, all plats shall comply with the following:
a.
All applicable statutory provisions.
b.
The city's zoning ordinance, building and housing codes, and all other applicable laws.
c.
The official zoning map, public utilities plan, and capital improvements program of the city, including all streets, drainage systems, and parks shown on the official zoning map or comprehensive plan.
d.
The rules of the health department and/or appropriate agencies.
e.
Rules of the state highway department if any lot abuts a state highway.
f.
The standards and regulations adopted by the city.
g.
Plat approval may be withheld if a subdivision is not compliant with the above.
4.
Adequate public facilities. No preliminary plat shall be approved unless the city determines public facilities and services (including without limitation roads, sidewalk, fire protection, law enforcement, water, sewer, stormwater facilities, and waste disposal) will be adequate to support and serve the subdivision. The applicant shall submit sufficient information to demonstrate the expected impact on and use of public facilities and services by said subdivision. Public facilities and services to be examined for adequacy will include without limitation roads and public transportation facilities, sewerage, water service, schools, police stations, and fire stations.
a.
Proposed public improvements shall conform to and be property related to the comprehensive plan and all applicable capital improvements plans.
b.
All habitable buildings and buildable lots shall be connected to a public water system capable of providing water for health and emergency purposes, including adequate fire protection.
c.
Drainage improvements shall accommodate potential runoff from the entire upstream drainage area and shall be designed to prevent increases in downstream flooding. The city may require the use of control methods such as detention, and/or the construction of offsite drainage improvements.
d.
Proposed roads shall provide a safe, convenient, and functional system for vehicular, pedestrian, and bicycle circulation; shall be properly related to the comprehensive plan; and shall be appropriate for the particular traffic characteristics.
e.
All public improvements and required easements shall be extended through the parcel. Streets, waterlines, wastewater systems, drainage facilities, electric lines, and telecommunications lines shall be constructed through new development to promote the logical extension of public infrastructure. The city may require the applicant to extend offsite improvements to reach the subdivision or oversize required public facilities to serve the development.
5.
Self-imposed restrictions. If the owner places restrictions on any of the land greater than those required by the zoning ordinance or these regulations, reference to those restrictions shall be indicated on the plat, or the city may require that restrictive covenants be recorded with the clerk of the superior court in a form approved by the city attorney.
6.
Lot arrangement. The lot arrangement shall avoid foreseeable difficulties, for reasons of topography or other conditions, in securing building permits to build on all lots in compliance with zoning and health regulations and in providing driveway access to buildings from an approved street.
7.
Lot dimensions. Lot dimensions shall comply with the zoning ordinance. In general, side lot lines shall be at right angle to street lines (or radial to curving street lines) unless a variation from this rule will give a better street or lot plan. Corner lots shall be large enough to allow for the building, observing the minimum front yard setback from both streets. Depth and width of properties laid out for business, commercial, or industrial purposes shall be adequate to provide for off-street parking and loading facilities required for the type of use and development contemplated, per the zoning ordinance.
8.
Lot orientation. The lot line common to the street right-of-way shall be the front line. All lots shall face the front line and a similar line across the street. Wherever feasible, lots shall be arranged so that the rear line does not abut the side line of an adjacent lot.
9.
Front yard setback lines. A line meeting the front yard setback requirements of the zoning ordinance shall be established on all lots.
10.
Double frontage lots and access to lots. Double frontage and reverse frontage lots shall be avoided except where necessary to provide separation of residential development from roads or to overcome specific disadvantages of topography and orientation. Double frontage lots which are necessary shall have a no access easement across them, preventing access to arterial or collector streets.
11.
Character of the land. Land that is unsuitable for development due to flooding, drainage, steep slopes, rock formations, adverse earth formations or topography, utility easements, or other features harmful to the safety, health, and general welfare, shall not be subdivided or developed unless adequate methods are formulated by the developer and approved by the city, upon recommendation of the city engineer, to solve the problems created by the unsuitable land conditions.
12.
Subdivision name. The name of the subdivision shall not duplicate, or too closely approximate phonetically, the name of any other subdivision in the city. The city shall have final authority to designate the name of the subdivision, which shall be determined at preliminary plat approval.
13.
Nonresidential subdivisions. If a proposed subdivision includes land zoned for commercial (including multifamily and apartment) or industrial purposes, the layout of the subdivision with respect to the land shall make provision as the city may reasonably require. A nonresidential subdivision shall be subject to all the requirements of these regulations, as well as such additional standards required by the city, and shall conform to the comprehensive plan, city concept plan, official zoning map, and zoning ordinance. In addition to the principles and standards in these regulations, which are appropriate to the planning of all subdivisions, the applicant shall demonstrate to the satisfaction of the city that the street, parcel, and block pattern proposed is specifically adapted to the uses anticipated and takes into account other uses in the vicinity. The following principles and standards shall be observed:
a.
Proposed industrial parcels shall be suitable in dimensions to the type of development anticipated.
b.
Streets shall be adequate to accommodate the traffic anticipated.
c.
Special requirements may be imposed for street, curb, gutter, and sidewalks.
d.
Special requirements may be imposed for public utilities.
e.
Protection of adjacent residential areas from commercial or industrial subdivision, including extra depth in parcels backing up on residential areas and permanently landscaped buffer strip.
f.
Streets carrying nonresidential traffic, especially truck traffic, shall not be extended to boundaries of adjacent existing residential or potential residential areas.
14.
Standards for approval of preliminary plats. No preliminary plat shall be approved unless the applicant proves by clear and convincing evidence that:
a.
Definite provision has been made for water supply that is sufficient in terms of quantity, dependability, and quality;
b.
Definite provision has been made for sewage disposal per federal, state, and local law;
c.
All areas which may involve soil or topography requiring special precautions have been identified and the proposed uses are appropriate;
d.
The subdivider has the financial ability to complete the subdivision per all applicable federal, state, and local laws and regulations;
e.
There is no other available already subdivided land in the city suitable for the project;
f.
The subdivision will not result in the scattered subdivision of land that leaves undeveloped parcels of land lacking urban services between developed parcels;
g.
There will be no adverse increase or over-taxing of public facilities;
h.
There will be no additional cost to governmental entities of public utilities, schools, streets and other public safety measures;
i.
There will be no adverse impact on the environment;
j.
There will be no adverse impact on a property, neighborhood, area, or community;
k.
The subdivision will not deter the value or improvement or development of adjacent property;
l.
There will be no adverse impact on residential neighborhoods, which carries great weight;
m.
The subdivider has taken every effort to mitigate the impact on health, safety, and welfare.
The city is authorized to disapprove the preliminary plat even though the land proposed for subdivision is zoned for the use to which the proposed subdivision will be put and the proposed use is consistent with the comprehensive plan.
15.
Review process.
a.
Upon receipt of one copy plus a digital version of a complete application and plat, the code compliance officer shall make the copy available for review by the city manager or his/her designee and the city engineer.
b.
The code compliance officer shall forward a copy of the documents to all relevant county departments, the soil and water conservation commission district, the Georgia DOT or others as appropriate, for their review and comment.
c.
Upon receipt of comments from those referenced above, , the city engineer will indicate in writing all comments related to these regulations, conditions of zoning approval, and other regulations or ordinances.
d.
The city engineer will forward all comments to the applicant.
e.
The applicant must respond satisfactorily to all of the comments, and the city engineer and involved agencies and departments and individuals will confirm such, then advise the city in writing.
f.
Following receipt of approvals from all involved agencies and receipt of all required bonds, a corrected preliminary plat shall be submitted for review and approval by the city engineer.
g.
No preliminary plat will be issued unless the tax commissioner's office certifies that all ad valorem taxes on the property and due and owing have been paid.
h.
Upon written certification from the city engineer of:
(1)
Compliance, and
(2)
Receipt of corrected preliminary plat, the mayor and council will then consider the application and plat at their next regular meeting, and conduct a public hearing.
16.
Public hearing. Upon receipt of the written certification, the city shall call a public hearing for the next meeting of the council at least 30 days after the date of the certification. The city clerk shall submit a notice for publication at least 15 days prior to the hearing and shall maintain copies of the plat and construction plans for public review prior to the hearing. The property shall be posted at least 15 days prior to the hearing. Minutes of the meeting will be taken by the city clerk.
17.
Sequence and time limits at hearing. The applicant or applicant's representative shall present and explain the application. The applicant will be allowed not less than ten minutes combined total to make an initial presentation and subsequent rebuttal, but the applicant and all supporters shall have a combined time limit of no more than 15 minutes. Then, persons who support the application will stand, state their name, address, and interest and comment on the pending application. They are allowed to speak for no more than two minutes each, and are subject to the 15-minute combined total time limit. Persons opposing an application are allowed at least ten minutes total as a group (and in no event less than the combined time used by the applicant and supporters), to address their opposition to the application. The opponents shall have a combined total time limit of no more than 15 minutes. It is suggested that supporters and opponents each obtain one spokesperson to present their views. No individual except the applicant, or an attorney, or a designated representative of a group, shall speak longer than two minutes or more than one time. The applicant may make brief summary remarks using any reserved time, after which the presiding officer shall close the public hearing.
18.
Rules of conduct of hearing. All speakers shall speak only from the podium, shall address only the merits of the pending application, and shall address remarks only to the mayor and council. Each speaker shall refrain from personal attacks on any other speaker, any discussion irrelevant to the application, or any other inappropriate behavior. No debate or argument will be allowed. Speakers shall not repeat previous comments, as repetition deprives other speakers of time to provide new information. The presiding officer or his/her designee shall refuse a speaker the right to continue if the speaker, after once being cautioned, continues to violate any section of this ordinance. Speakers should provide supporting documentation prior to the date of the hearing. Speakers shall sign the speaker list prior to the hearing.
19.
City action. After the hearing, the city shall approve, approve with conditions, table, or disapprove the plat. The city shall provide the required conditions to the applicant in writing. If the plat is disapproved, the city shall notify the applicant in writing, citing the reasons for disapproval. The action of the city shall be noted on the copy of the preliminary plat, and one copy shall be returned to the applicant.
20.
Final signature. The city engineer and mayor shall sign the preliminary plat, only after all requirements of these regulations and other agencies are met.
21.
Effective period. The approval shall be for one year from the date that the preliminary plat is approved by the city, at the end of which time the applicant must have submitted a final plat for approval. Otherwise, the preliminary approval shall be null and void, and the applicant shall submit a new application subject to the then existing zoning restrictions and subdivision regulations. Provided, however, the applicant may submit a written request for an extension for good cause, such extension not to exceed 12 months. The mayor and council shall consider the request for extension within 45 days after the request is made, and may approve, approve with conditions, or deny the request, in their reasonable discretion.
Sec. 3.5. - Amendments.
Any changes require an amendment be filed no later than 45 days prior to the regular meeting date of the city. The applicant shall submit one copy of an amendment plus a digital version to the city for review. The fact that it is revised must be clearly shown. The city shall initiate a review process on the proposed amendment per the same procedures and requirements and standards for preliminary plat approval found in sections 3.2 and 3.4, including the review and approval by all involved entities including the city manager, and city engineer, and the mayor and council per a public hearing. The city shall approve or disapprove the proposed amendment and may require modifications in the terms and conditions of the preliminary plat approval reasonably related to the proposed amendment. The action of the city shall be noted in the minutes and on the copy of the plat, and one copy shall be returned to the applicant. If the applicant is unwilling to accept the amendment under the conditions required by the city the applicant may withdraw the proposed amendment. An applicant may not propose more than two amendments to any plat.
Sec. 3.6. - Development permit, construction plans: summary (see next two chapters for detail).
No person shall conduct any land-disturbing activity without first obtaining a development permit. Construction plans shall be prepared only by a registered professional engineer, registered land surveyor, or registered landscape architect.
1.
Content. All construction plans shall be prepared per accepted professional standards. The submittal copies shall consist of blackline or blueline prints on a white background. Construction plans shall be prepared per these regulations and shall be drawn at a scale of not more than one inch equal to 100 feet with a contour interval not to exceed two feet. Drawing sheets size shall not be less than 24 by 36 inches. Construction plans shall be submitted for all required improvements and amended when necessary. The following shall be depicted:
a.
Profiles showing existing and proposed elevations along center lines of all roads. Where a proposed road intersects an existing road, the elevation along the center line of the existing road within 100 feet of the intersection shall be shown. Radii of curves, lengths of tangents, and central angles on streets shall be shown.
b.
Where slopes in excess of 20 percent occur on cross slopes, cross sections of all proposed streets at fifth foot stations shall be shown at five points on a line at right angles to the center line of the street, and said elevation points shall be at the center line of the street, each property line and points 50 feet inside each property line.
c.
Plans and profiles showing location and typical cross-section of street pavements including curbs and gutters, sidewalks, drainage easement, right-of-way, manholes, and catch basins; the location, size and invert elevations of existing and proposed storm sewers, drains, and exact location and size of all existing water, gas or underground utilities or structures. All utilities shall be noted.
d.
Location and size of all existing and proposed drainage structures. The acreage of the drainage area and all pipe and ditch sizing calculations shall be provided.
e.
The engineer preparing the construction plans shall certify the center line of all streets and drainage ways based upon a field run survey.
f.
Plans for water systems and plans for profiles for sewer system and storm drainage pipes.
g.
All information required by the city's construction standards and specifications.
h.
An approved sedimentation and erosion control plan.
i.
A hydrological study including the drainage plan for the area.
j.
Title, name, address, stamp, signature of engineer and date(s).
k.
Typical street section: asphalt and base thickness, curb, width, shoulder slope, right-of-way.
Sec. 3.7. - Final subdivision plat.
No land shall be sold or transferred, or a building permit issued until the final plat has been approved and recorded. Periodic inspection during installation of improvements in a subdivision shall be made by the city engineer to insure conformity with approved plans and specifications. The subdivider shall notify the city engineer when each phase is ready for inspection.
1.
Application procedure. Within 12 months following approval of the preliminary plat, the applicant shall file with the code compliance officer an application for final plat, which shall conform to the preliminary plat in all ways. It may represent only that portion of the subdivision which the subdivider proposes to develop at this time. Failure to submit within this time period shall void the plat unless an extension not to exceed 12 months is granted by the city. Said extension must be applied for in writing.
2.
Water and sewer. If water or sewer requires approval of the county, department of public health, and/or EPD or other agency, this shall accompany the application for approval of final plat. Sewer or wastewater approval shall be in accordance with section 38-2 of this Code.
3.
As-built data. As-built data drawings are to be submitted to the code compliance officer and then provided to the city engineer (for streets and drainage) and to the county utilities director (for water and sewer) as part of an application for final plat approval.
4.
Content. The final plat submitted shall be prepared per accepted professional standards, and must meet all the requirements of a preliminary plat plus the following:
a.
Date of survey, date of plat drawing, and revision dates, graphic scale, north point, notation as to the reference or bearings to magnetic, true north or grid north, an indication whether bearings shown are calculated from angles turned or taken from compass readings, the longitude and latitude and state plane coordinates; and the mean sea level datum.
b.
If part or all of the tract is a portion of a former subdivision, reference shall be made to the former plat, with identification of the former lots and block being resubdivided and including the name of the former subdivision.
c.
Municipal, county or land lot lines accurately tied to the boundary line by distance and angles, when such lines transverse or are reasonably close to the subdivision, and boundary line of the subdivision by distance and angles.
d.
Location, right-of-way, widths, and names of all streets and alleys within and adjoining the plat, and the location and widths of all cross angles of intersections, radii, length of tangents, and arcs and degree of curvature with basis of curve data.
e.
Lot lines with dimensions to the nearest one hundredth foot, necessary internal angles, arcs and chords, and tangents of radii of rounded corners.
f.
Building setback lines with dimensions and front yard setback lines with dimension.
g.
When lots are on a curve or side lot lines are at angles other than 90 degrees, the lot width at the building lines shall be shown.
h.
Location, dimensions and purpose of all drainage structures and any easement, including slope easements, and public service utility right-of-way lines, and any areas to be reserved, donated, or dedicated to public use or sites for other use with notes stating their purpose; and of any areas to reserve by deed covenant for use of all property owners.
i.
Accurate location, material and description of monuments and markers. Monuments to be placed after final street improvements shall be designated as "future."
j.
A statement as follows: "This plat is subject to the covenants set forth in the separate document(s) attached hereto dated ___, which hereby becomes a part of this plat, recorded ___ and signed by the owner."
k.
Certification for final plat approval by the city.
l.
Owner's certification: The final plat shall contain, in addition to a licensed land surveyor's certification, a statement as follows:
"I (we) hereby certify that I am (we are) the owner(s) of the property shown and described hereon and that I (we) hereby adopt this plan of subdivision with my (our) free consent, establish the minimum building restriction lines, dedicate all streets, easements, alleys, walks, parks and other open spaces to provide directly or indirectly for maintenance of all common areas or outlets."
This statement shall be signed and dated by the owners, proprietors, or trustees, if any, prior to the final plat submittal. The final plat shall be accompanied by statement of deed restrictions (covenants) which the subdivider intends to apply to the subdivision, if any. All deed restrictions shall meet or exceed the requirements contained in this regulation and the requirements of the zoning ordinance.
m.
Be accompanied by all formal irrevocable offers of dedication to the public of all streets, public uses, utilities, parks, and easements, in a form approved by the city attorney; and the subdivision plat shall be marked with a notation indicating the formal offers of dedication as follows:
"The owner, or his representative, hereby irrevocably offers for dedication to the City all the streets, public uses, easements, parks, and required utilities shown on the subdivision plat and construction plans per an irrevocable offer of dedication dated _______, and recorded in the Clerk's Office of the _______ County Superior Court, as appropriate.
BY: _______       DATE: _______
(Owner or Representative)
The applicant shall deliver a full covenant and warranty deed to all dedicated lands and improvements in proper form for recording, together with a title policy to Watkinsville in the sum which shall be reasonably determined by council resolution before signing the final subdivision plat.
n.
Notation of approval as follows:
i.
An engineer's or surveyor's certification, directly on the final plat as follows:
"It is hereby certified that this plat is true and correct and was prepared from an actual survey of the property by me or under my supervision; that all monuments shown hereon actually exist or are marked 'future' and their location, size, type, and material are correctly shown; and that all engineering requirements of the Subdivision Regulations the City of Watkinsville, have been fully complied with."
BY:
Registered Certified Engineer
#: _______
BY:
Registered Georgia Land Surveyor
#: _______
ii.
An owner's certification, directly on the final plat as follows:
Owner's Certification:
State of Georgia, City of Watkinsville
"The owner of the land shown on this plat and whose name is subscribed hereto, in person or through a duly authorized agent, certifies that this plat was made from an actual survey, that all state, county and city taxes or other assessments now due on this land have been paid.
AGENT: _______       DATE: _______
OWNER: _______       DATE: _______
iii.
Certification of individual private water and/or sewer system directly on the final plat as follows:
"I certify that the individual private sewerage collection and disposal system and the individual private water supply and distribution systems installed or to be installed and/or the plans for the private sewage meet the requirements of the health department.
LOT #(s) ___________
Is (are) not approved for private sewage systems
_______       DATE: _______
HEALTH OFFICER
iv.
Certification of community or public water system, directly on the final plat as follows:
"I hereby certify that the community or public water supply and distribution systems are to be installed, shown in the subdivision plat attached hereto, meet the requirements of the Georgia Department of Natural Resources water supply section.
LOT #(s) ___________
Is (are) not approved for community or public water systems
Georgia DNR Water Supply Section       DATE: _______
v.
Certification of community or public sewer systems, directly on the final plat as follows:
"I hereby certify that the community or public sewerage collection and disposal system installed or to be installed, shown in the subdivision plat attached hereto, meets the requirements of the, meets the requirements of the Georgia Department of Natural Resources Water Quality Control Section.
LOT #(s)
Is (are) not approved for community or public water systems
Georgia DNR Water Supply Section       DATE: _______
o.
Be accompanied by the subdivision improvement agreement and security, if required, in a form reasonably satisfactory to the city attorney and in an amount established by the city upon recommendation of the city engineer and shall include a provision that the subdivider shall comply with all the terms of the resolution of final subdivision plat approval as determined by the city and shall include, but not be limited to, the performance of all required subdivision and off-site improvements, and that all improvements and land in the irrevocable offer of dedication shall be dedicated to the city free and clear of all liens and encumbrances on the premises.
p.
Be accompanied by a fee as determined by council resolution for each street sign shown in the construction plans, which street signs shall be installed by the city.
5.
Other requirements. Title opinion from developer's attorney certifying clear title to all streets, rights-of-way, drainage easements, well lots, wells, and other areas to be dedicated to the city or county, and dedication deeds or easement agreements. Surety documents in a form acceptable to the city attorney, as may be required herein, or by other ordinances of the city.
6.
Further conditions. No final plat shall be approved, or accepted for recordation by the clerk of the superior court, until: 1) All public improvements shall have been properly installed and completed per all requirements hereof and all applicable city regulations (other than traffic signs, street name signs, and signalization), and a registered engineer, land surveyor, or landscape architect's report certifies that all improvements meet the requirements hereof and all applicable city regulations, and as-built data drawings of the improvements shall have been approved by the city engineer; or 2) the city has received performance security outlined below.
7.
Contract. In cases of security in lieu of completion at time of final plat, there shall be a non-revocable and executed contract for installation of the improvements between the developer and a qualified contractor. The city shall require the applicant to indicate on the plat all roads and public utility improvements which shall be required to be established or extended, and any other special requirements deemed necessary by the city in order to conform the plat to the comprehensive plan. The executed contract shall call for completion of the improvements within 24 months of approval of the final plat. however, the city may in its discretion require that all public improvements be installed and dedicated prior to the signing of the final plat by the mayor and city engineer.
8.
Subdivision improvement guarantee.
a.
Waiver in city discretion. The mayor and council at its sole discretion may waive the requirement that the applicant complete and dedicate all public improvements prior to approval of the final plat and, as an alternative, permit the applicant to enter into a subdivision improvement agreement by which the subdivider covenants to complete all required public improvements no later than two years following the date the mayor signs the final plat. The applicant shall covenant to maintain each required public improvement for two years following acceptance of the dedication and also shall warrant that all required public improvements will be free from defect for two years following the acceptance. The agreement shall provide that the covenants shall run with the land and bind all successors, heirs, and assigns. The agreement will be adopted by the city and shall be recorded in the clerk's office of the county superior court.
b.
Security. When the city permits an applicant to enter into a subdivision improvement agreement, it shall require the applicant to provide a bond or letter of credit or cash escrow as security for the promises contained in the subdivision improvement agreement. Such security shall be in an amount equal to 120 percent of the estimated cost of completion of the required public improvements, including lot improvements. The issuer of the bond or letter of credit or the escrow agent, as applicable, shall be subject to approval of the city.
c.
Bond or letter of credit. If the applicant posts a bond or letter of credit as security for the promises contained in the subdivision improvement agreement, it shall:
(1)
Be irrevocable;
(2)
Be for a term sufficient to cover the completion, maintenance and warranty periods above; and
(3)
Require only that the government present the bond or credit with a sight draft and an affidavit signed by the city attorney attesting to the city's right to draw funds thereunder.
d.
Cash escrow. If the applicant posts a cash escrow as security for its promises contained in the subdivision improvement agreement, the escrow instructions shall provide:
(1)
That the subdivider will have no right to return of any of the funds except in compliance herewith; and
(2)
That the escrow agent shall have a legal duty to deliver the funds to the city whenever the city attorney presents an affidavit to the agent attesting to the city's right to receive funds whether or not the subdivider protests that right.
e.
Reduction. If/when the city accepts the dedication for the last completed required public improvement, the city shall execute a waiver of its right to receive all but 25 percent of the funds if the subdivider is not in breach of the subdivision improvement agreement. The residual funds shall be security for the subdivider's covenant to maintain the required public improvements and its warranty that the improvements are free from defect.
f.
Costs of improvements. All required improvements shall be made by the developer, at his/her expense, without reimbursement.
g.
Failure to complete improvement. Where required public improvements have not been installed within the terms of the agreement, the city may then:
(1)
Declare the agreement to be in default and require that all the improvements be installed regardless of the extent of the building development at the time the agreement is declared to be in default;
(2)
Suspend final subdivision plat approval until the improvements are completed and record a document to that effect for the purpose of public notice;
(3)
Obtain funds under the security and complete improvements itself or through a third party;
(4)
Assign its right to receive funds under the security to any third party, including a subsequent owner of the subdivision for which improvements were not constructed, in whole or in part, in exchange for that subsequent owners promise to complete improvements in the subdivision;
(5)
Exercise any other rights available under the law.
h.
Acceptance of dedication offers. Acceptance of formal offers of dedication of streets, public areas, easements, and parks shall be by ordinance of the governing body. The approval of a subdivision plat by the city, whether sketch, preliminary or final, shall not be deemed to constitute or imply the acceptance by the city of any street, easement, or park shown on the plat.
9.
Maintenance of improvements. The developer shall in all cases be required to maintain all required public improvements on the individual subdivided lots until acceptance of the improvements by the city. If there are any certificates of occupancy on a street not dedicated to the city, the city may affect emergency repairs and charge those costs to the developer. Following the acceptance, the subdivider shall maintain the improvements for two years from the date of acceptance.
10.
Review and approval process including public hearing. The mayor, city manager, city engineer, and city attorney will undertake a review and approval process per the same requirements and standards for preliminary plat approval found in sections 3.2 and 3.4, but excluding the review and approval by all involved entities such as the council.
11.
Changes to an approved final plat. No change shall be made on a plat or on accompanying data sheets after approval, unless authorization for such changes has been granted in writing by a review and approval process per the same procedures and requirements and standards for preliminary plat approval found in sections 3.2 and 3.4, including the review and approval by all involved entities including the city manager, city engineer, and the mayor and council per a public hearing.
12.
Recording. Subsequent to any favorable decision by the city, applicant shall file a copy of the final plat with the clerk of the county superior court, and a copy of the final plat and construction plans with the city clerk. An approved final plat shall be filed with each clerk within 30 days after final approval. Failure to comply with this provision shall void any approved plat.
13.
Copies of the recorded final plat. Two print shall be submitted to the city clerk with other required materials comprising the final plat. After approval, one print shall be returned to the developer.
14.
Disapproval of a final plat. If the final plat does not conform to the preliminary plat, a notation of the action shall be made on all prints of the final plat, including a statement of the reasons thereof. Applicant shall make such changes as are necessary to conform the final plat to the preliminary plat and the construction plans. Alternatively, the applicant may appeal any denial pursuant to the procedures of section 1.10.
ARTICLE 4. - DEVELOPMENT CONSTRUCTION APPROVAL

Sec. 4.1. - General requirements.
Land-disturbing activity shall not commence until: 1) the application, and 2) the construction plans, are approved by the city engineer and mayor and council, and a development permit is issued by the city manager or his/her designee.
A development permit is required for all development activity, including clearing and grubbing, grading and the construction of such improvements as streets, surface parking areas and drives, stormwater drainage facilities, sidewalks, water or sewerage utilities, or other structures, except for buildings, signs, or other structures requiring a building permit.
Periodic inspection shall be made by the city engineer and/or city manager or his/her designee to insure conformity with the approved plans and specifications. The subdivider shall notify the code compliance officer when each phase is ready for inspection.
Sec. 4.2. - Floodplain management requirements.
If development is proposed affecting an area of special flood hazard, approval of a development permit shall be dependent on compliance with all applicable regulations. If the property contains a flood hazard area, a floodplain management approval shall be required.
Sec. 4.3. - Development permit process.
1.
Initiation of process.
a.
A developer shall submit to the code compliance officer:
(1)
One copy plus a digital version of an application for a development permit; and
(2)
One copy plus a digital version of all construction plans required by these regulations.
b.
The code compliance officer shall distribute copies for the city manager and city engineer to review.
c.
The code compliance officer shall forward a copy of the documents to all relevant county offices (i.e.: environmental health, emergency management, school district, etc.), the Soil and Water Conservation Commission District, the Georgia DOT or others as appropriate, for their review and comment.
2.
Process for approval of application and plans for development permit. An application for a development permit may proceed simultaneously with an application for a preliminary plat, but may not be issued prior to approval of such plat.
a.
The application package must include:
(1)
Application on the form furnished by the city.
(2)
One copy of the preliminary plat plus a digital copy.
(3)
One copy of the construction plans plus a digital copy.
(4)
Two copies of the hydrology study plus a digital copy.
(5)
One copy of the soil tests (if applicable).
(6)
Payment of any development permit fee, as established from time to time by city council resolution.
b.
Incomplete application packages will be rejected and returned to the applicant.
c.
Upon receipt of a complete application package, the code compliance officer shall:
(1)
Refer the soil erosion and sedimentation control plan to the city engineer and the soil and water conservation commission.
(2)
Refer the grading plan, the stormwater management plan, the floodplain management/flood damage prevention plan (if any), and the street improvements plan to the city engineer.
(3)
Refer the water and sewerage public utility plans to the county utilities department.
(4)
Refer the on-site septic system plans to the county health department.
d.
The applicant may be required by the city engineer to secure development approval from other agencies if affected by the development, such as: Fire marshal, Georgia Department of Transportation, Georgia Department of Natural Resources, U.S. Army Corps of Engineers, and U.S. Environmental Protection Agency.
e.
Upon receipt of comments from other departments and/or agencies, the city engineer will indicate in writing all comments related to these regulations, conditions of zoning approval, and other regulations or ordinances.
f.
The comments shall also encompass all requirements in 4.4 below.
g.
The city engineer will forward all comments to the applicant.
h.
The applicant must respond satisfactorily to all of the comments, and the city engineer and involved individuals, agencies and departments will confirm such, then advise the city in writing.
i.
Following receipt of approvals from all involved agencies, individuals and receipt of all required bonds, a final set of construction plans shall be submitted to the code compliance officer.
j.
No development permit will be issued unless the tax commissioner's office certifies that all ad valorem taxes on the property and due and owing have been paid.
k.
Upon written certification from the city engineer of:
(1)
Compliance, and
(2)
Receipt of final approved construction plans, the mayor and council will then consider the application and plans at their next regular meeting, and formally approve such.
l.
Then, the code compliance officer shall issue the development permit, only after all requirements of these regulations and other agencies are met and approval by the city engineer and mayor and council has been obtained.
m.
No development permit will be issued by the code compliance officer unless the plan has been approved by the above departments and entities, and any bonding, if required, has been obtained.
n.
The permit authorizes development per the approved final construction plans.
o.
If the tract is developed in phases, a separate permit shall be required for each phase.
p.
The applicant will be responsible for compliance with all codes, regulations and zoning requirements. In the event of any conflict between these regulations and the zoning ordinance, the provisions of the zoning ordinance will govern.
3.
Expiration of development permit. A development permit shall expire if the development per the permit is not begun within one year from issuance. Provided, however, for good cause shown, upon written application from the applicant, the mayor and council may extend the deadline for an additional 12 months. Any change of construction plans that may materially impact the permit shall require a permit amendment. Amendments shall follow the same procedure as original applications for a development permit, subject to the requirements as of the date of application of such amendment.
Sec. 4.4. - Construction plans (reviewed as part of development permit application).
1.
Construction plan requirements. The owner shall obtain an engineering layout and profile of all proposed streets, utilities, storm drainage and other improvements. These shall be prepared by a licensed professional engineer or landscape architect. The utility system design must be by a licensed professional engineer.
a.
Construction plans shall include topographic data specified herein, existing and proposed contours, signs and other required improvements specified herein.
b.
The construction plans shall conform in all respects with all applicable requirements, and shall include the plans in this section as appropriate to the project, including:
(1)
Erosion and sedimentation control plan;
(2)
Grading plan;
(3)
Stormwater management plan;
(4)
Street improvement plan;
(5)
Site landscaping plans;
(6)
Public utility plans; and
(7)
On-site septic system plans.
c.
All construction plans and supporting studies shall be prepared by or under the supervision of a professional engineer or landscape architect registered in the state and shall be drawn on sheets a minimum of 24 inches by 36 inches in size.
d.
One copy of the construction plans must be at the job site when work is in progress.
2.
Grading plan. The grading plan may be combined with the erosion and sedimentation control plan if clarity will not be compromised. Grading plans shall identify existing and planned topographic contours as required for erosion and sedimentation control plans.
a.
The design professional shall add a certification as shown herein to the grading plan sheet indicating if wetlands are on the property by checking the appropriate box.
b.
If the property contains any area of special flood hazard (100-year flood plain), grading plans in and around the flood plain shall be per all requirements under the erosion control and stormwater management regulations.
c.
Grading plans shall outline any area to remain undisturbed and show the protective fencing and signage, along with a note regarding protection of undisturbed areas as shown herein.
Wetland Certification
EXPAND
The design professional whose seal appears herein certifies the following: (1) the Wetlands Map has been consulted; (2) the appropriate plan sheet
□ DOES  □ DOES NOT
indicate wetlands as shown on the map or as determined by a certified wetlands delineator; and (3) if wetlands are indicated the landowner or developer has been advised that land disturbance of protected wetlands shall not occur unless the appropriate Section 404 Permit or Letter of Permission has been obtained from the U.S. Corps of Engineers for jurisdictional wetlands, or approval has been obtained from Watkinsville and Oconee County to disturb other (nonjurisdictional) wetlands.
  3.
Stormwater management plan. The requirements for stormwater management are found in the applicable city regulations.
4.
Street improvement plan.
a.
Center line profiles and typical street sections of all streets shall be drawn on standard plan and profile sheet with plan section showing street layout, pavement and right-of-way width, curvature, and required drainage facilities.
b.
Where sanitary sewer or stormwater sewers are to be installed in a street, the grade, size, location, class of pipe and bedding type, and the location and invert elevation of manholes shall be indicated on the profile.
c.
Center line profiles for extensions of existing streets shall include elevations at 50-foot intervals for such distance as to provide continuity consistent with the standards hereof for street improvements, but no less than 200 feet.
d.
All plan elevations shall be coordinated and sited into any U.S. Coast and Geodetic Survey or Georgia Department of Transportation benchmarks within 1,200 feet of the street, or into reference monuments established by FEMA.
e.
A street striping plan shall be prepared per the Manual on Uniform Traffic Control Devices, latest edition, for any new street or street widened to four or more lanes.
5.
Landscaping plans. All landscaping shall be illustrated on plans as described in this section, per applicable city regulations, for: parking lot landscape areas, parking lot trees, street-side screening, buffers, and trees and other landscaping per city regulations or conditions of zoning, including chapter 14-69 of this Code.
a.
General requirements for all landscaping and buffer plans.
(1)
Landscaping and buffer plans shall be drawn at one inch = 20 feet to 50 feet, as needed to clearly illustrate the plantings.
(2)
Caption. Each plan sheet is to include:
(a)
The name of the development and its acreage (or square footage if less than an acre).
(b)
Name, address, telephone, and email of the property owner and subdivider or developer.
(c)
Name, address, telephone, and email of the applicant.
(d)
Name, address, telephone, and email of the individual or company responsible for the design. The name, email, registration number, and seal of the landscape architect shall be stamped on the plan and signed.
(e)
Date of survey, north point and graphic scale, source of datum, date of plan drawing, and revision dates, as appropriate.
(f)
The location and size of all utilities, including easements and stormwater detention areas.
(3)
Plant materials. Standards and requirements for the quality and type of plant materials and their installation and maintenance are contained in the applicable city regulations.
Undisturbed Area Notes
EXPAND
All protection devices for undisturbed areas must be installed and inspected prior to clearing, grubbing or grading. Call the County Public Works Department for an inspection. Tree protection shall be vigorously enforced. No activities of any kind are to be allowed within any area shown to be undisturbed on this plan. The retention and planting of trees as shown on this plan must be verified prior to issuance of a Certificate of Occupancy or acceptance of the project. Call the County Code Enforcement Department for an inspection. A maintenance inspection of trees will be performed prior to the expiration of the 2-year maintenance period. Project owners at the time of the maintenance inspection are responsible for compliance with the provisions of this plan and all applicable city regulations.
  b.
Landscaping plan. Landscaping plans must include the following, as appropriate to the landscaping requirements of the applicable city regulations:
(1)
The location of all existing and proposed impervious surfaces.
(2)
The outline of all existing and proposed buildings and structures.
(3)
The boundaries of all areas to remain undisturbed, and an illustrated description of protective fencing and signage around such areas, along with a note regarding protection of undisturbed areas as shown herein.
(4)
The boundaries of each landscape area required by applicable city regulations or conditions of zoning approval.
(5)
A planting plan showing:
(a)
The location, size and common name of proposed plant materials.
(b)
For individual lots in a residential subdivision, standards for each lot may be listed on the plan, such as the number, type and caliper of new trees (front and back), in lieu of illustrating such trees on each lot. Such standards must include the following notation clearly legible in bold type:
"These planting standards must be met on a lot prior to a Certificate of Occupancy or approval of permanent power for the residence."
(6)
The location, size and common name of all existing plant materials to be retained that contribute to meeting the city regulations.
c.
Buffer plan. A buffer plan shall be prepared for any buffer required per the applicable city regulations or conditions of zoning. The buffer plan shall show:
(1)
The boundaries of each required buffer area.
(2)
The location and size of all utilities on the site, including utility easements and stormwater detention areas.
(3)
For each natural buffer, the plan must show: Methods to protect the drip line areas of trees in the buffer from disturbance during construction, including fencing, erosion control, and signage, along with a note regarding protection of undisturbed areas as shown herein; Proposed supplemental plantings required to maintain the opaque visual screen.
(4)
For each structural buffer, the plan must show:
(a)
All grading and construction details for earthen berms, walls and fences.
(b)
A planting plan showing the location, size and type of plants.
(c)
The location, size and common name of all existing plants to be retained that contribute to meeting the regulations for buffers.
(d)
Typical cross-sections of the buffer illustrating the improvements proposed and typical location of vegetation. At least one cross-section shall be provided for each buffer.
6.
Public utility plans.
a.
Domestic water supply plan. The domestic water supply plan shall depict all water system improvements, water mains, fire hydrants, valves and other appurtenances, and other information as may be required by the county utilities department.
b.
Sewage disposal plan. Sewage disposal plans are to include: Sanitary sewerage plans, including profiles of all mains and outfalls, lift station and force main details, typical manhole construction details, and other information as may be required by the county utilities department.
7.
On-site septic system plans. For projects approved to be served by on-site sewage disposal systems, such plans and data as required by the county health department shall be submitted to and approved by the health department.
Sec. 4.5. - Developer's retention of responsibility.
a.
Approval of plans shall not imply acceptance of responsibility for the application of the principles of engineering, architecture, landscape architecture or any other profession.
b.
Inspections and authorization for work continuation shall not imply responsibility for the quality of the work performed or materials used or for project design or engineering.
c.
No development permit shall eliminate responsibility for full compliance with all applicable codes, ordinances and other regulations. Any development permit issued in error or in contradiction to any applicable regulations shall be null and void.
d.
The approval of an erosion and sedimentation control plan or other plans, the issuance of a development permit, or the compliance with any other provisions hereof shall not relieve any person from the responsibility for damage imposed by law nor impose any liability upon the city.
e.
Reserved.
Sec. 4.6. - Environmental approval: wetlands.
1.
Approval requirements.
a.
No development permit may be approved unless in compliance with applicable wetlands regulations.
b.
For any wetland under the jurisdiction of the U.S. Corps of Engineers, a copy of the authorization by the Corps of Engineers shall be attached to the application.
2.
Wetlands protection site plan requirements. Applications for a development permit in the wetland protection area shall include a wetlands protection site plan, at a scale of 1" = 50', with the following information:
a.
A map of all planned excavation and fill, including calculations of the volume of cut and fill, and cross-sectional drawings with elevations, horizontal scale, vertical scale showing existing and proposed grades.
b.
Location, dimensions and area of all impervious surfaces, existing and proposed, on the site and adjacent to the site for 200 feet.
c.
The orientation and distance from the proposed site to the nearest bank of an affected perennial stream or water body.
d.
Elevations at contour intervals no greater than two feet of the site and land within 200 feet.
e.
Location and detailed design of any spill and leak collection systems for containing accidentally released hazardous or toxic materials.
f.
All proposed temporary disruptions or diversions of local hydrology.
3.
Activities to comply with site plan. All development or site work shall conform to said site plan. The site plan may be amended only with the written approval of the city or its designee. the city may require a bond with surety and conditions sufficient to secure compliance with the permit. In a breach of condition of any such bond, the city or its designee may collect such bond or sue upon such bond.
4.
Filing fee. Applicant shall pay a filing fee established by council resolution.
5.
Review procedures. The application shall be made to the code compliance officer and will be reviewed by the city engineer within 60 days or per established review procedures for the type of development being considered, whichever is greater. The review period shall include the preparation of findings (approval or disapproval) by the city engineer, after review by the city manager, and written notification of findings to the applicant.
6.
Duration of permit validity.
a.
If construction described in the development permit has not commenced within 12 months from issuance, the permit expires. Provided, however, for good cause shown, upon written application from the applicant, the mayor and council may extend the deadline for an additional 12 months.
b.
If construction is suspended or abandoned, the permit expires 12 months after work ceased.
Sec. 4.7. - Building permit.
1.
Building permit required.
a.
No structure shall be erected, moved, or structurally altered without a building permit.
b.
No building permit shall be issued except per these and all other applicable regulations.
c.
No building permit shall issue before approval of the final plat.
d.
All structures shall comply with the requirements hereof and with all other applicable regulations, whether or not a building permit is required.
2.
Construction progress. A building permit shall become invalid unless the work is commenced within six months of issuance or an extension has been approved by the city manager or his/her designee. A building permit is invalid if the work is suspended or abandoned for one year.
3.
Procedures to obtain a building permit. The code compliance officer or his/her designee administers the building codes.
a.
Building permit application. Application shall be made to the code compliance officer in a form established by the city manager. The application shall include:
(a)
Application on the form furnished by the city.
(b)
A copy of the preliminary plat.
(c)
All applications shall be accompanied by a drawing, showing the dimensions of the lot to be built upon, and the size and location on the lot of the structure. For single residences, plans shall be on an 8½" x 11".
(d)
The application shall include such other information as lawfully may be required by the city manager, including:
i.
Existing or proposed building or alteration;
ii.
Existing or proposed uses of the building and land;
iii.
Number of dwelling units building is designed to accommodate for residential buildings, or the floor area of nonresidential buildings;
iv.
Conditions existing on the lot; and
v.
Such other matters as may be necessary to determine conformance with these regulations and conditions of zoning.
(e)
Architectural building plans for multi-family or non-residential buildings in a number of copies as established by the city manager or his/her designee. Such plans shall be per these regulations and the applicable building codes. Such plans shall be prepared by or under the supervision of an architect registered in Georgia, who shall sign and seal each sheet.
(f)
County health department approval if on-site sewage allowed.
(g)
Payment of the building permit application and review fee.
(h)
Water meter receipt by the utilities department.
b.
Review procedures.
(1)
The application will be checked by the code compliance officer or his/her designee for completeness. Incomplete applications will be returned to the applicant.
(2)
The code compliance officer or his/her designee shall, after review by the city manager or his/her designee, sign to indicate approval or disapproval. One copy shall be returned to the applicant and the original retained by the city.
(3)
The code compliance officer or his/her designee will comment on any noncompliance with the provisions hereof and other applicable regulations and all building code requirements, regulations. The owner shall correct the application.
(4)
When the owner has made all the corrections to the reasonable satisfaction of the code compliance officer or his/her designee and the state fire marshal (if required), a building permit will be issued.
c.
Standards for approval.
(1)
Building permits shall be issued only on buildable lots of record.
(2)
Conformance to the provisions hereof and the adopted technical codes and supplements that constitute the applicable building code and all other applicable regulations is required before issuance of a building permit.
4.
Certificate of occupancy.
a.
It is unlawful to use or occupy or permit the use or occupancy of any part of a structure or premises, until a certificate of occupancy has been issued stating that the structure or premises conforms to all applicable regulations.
b.
A certificate of occupancy shall be required for any of the following:
(1)
Occupancy and use of a structure constructed or enlarged.
(2)
Change in use of existing structure to use of a different classification.
(3)
Any change in use of a nonconforming use, lot or structure.
ARTICLE 5. - PROJECT DESIGN AND CONSTRUCTION STANDARDS

Sec. 5.1. - Purpose of article 5.
This article sets out the requirements and standards for construction of subdivisions, including general principles of design and layout and requirements for such public facilities as streets and utilities. In the event of a conflict between these regulations and the city zoning ordinance, the requirements of the city zoning ordinance shall govern.
Sec. 5.2. - Standards incorporated by reference.
1.
Standard design specifications. The construction standards and specifications of the city shall be in accordance section 8-21 of this Code, also referred to herein as "standard design specifications" and "technical guidance documents" as may be amended from time to time, are incorporated as though set forth herein. In the case of a conflict between the standard design specifications and the text hereof, these regulations shall control.
2.
Traffic signs and street striping. The installation of all traffic control signs and street striping shall be governed by the standards contained in the Manual on Uniform Traffic Control Devices, latest edition, published by the Federal Highway Administration of the U.S. DOT, and the Non-Interstate Signage and Marking Design Guidelines published by Georgia DOT.
3.
Georgia DOT standard specifications. Unless otherwise specially set forth in these regulations or in the Standard Design Specifications, all of the materials, methods of construction, and workmanship for the work covered in reference to street construction and storm drainage construction shall conform to the latest standard specifications of the Georgia DOT.
4.
AASHTO design standards. Design criteria and standards not specifically set forth herein or in the latest standard specifications of the Georgia DOT shall conform to the latest edition of the AASHTO Policy on Geometric Design of Highways and Streets.
5.
Vehicle trip generation. Calculations regarding vehicular trips for a particular land use or development project shall use the data in Trip Generation published by the Institute of Transportation Engineers, latest edition, unless trip data more specific to the city or the particular use is available.
DIVISION I. - PROJECT DESIGN

Sec. 5.3. - General design standards.
1.
Established as minimum standards.
a.
All applicable design and improvement standards in this article shall be included on all subdivision plats and plans required by these regulations.
b.
If there is a discrepancy between minimum standards or dimensions herein and those in other official regulations or resolution, the most restrictive shall apply. Provided, however, that the city is not required to enforce county regulations that have not been expressly adopted by the city, in such case when said county regulations are not in the best interest of the health, safety and welfare of the citizens of the city.
2.
Suitability of the land.
a.
Land with a slope of 35 percent or more, land in the 100-year flood plain, and land otherwise determined by the city engineer to be physically unsuitable for subdivision or development because of flooding, poor drainage, topographic, geologic or other such features that may endanger health, life or property, aggravate erosion, increase flood hazard, or necessitate excessive expenditures of public funds for supply and maintenance of services shall not be approved for subdivision or development uses involving dedicated public facilities unless adequate methods are formulated by the developer for solving the problems.
b.
Lot remnants (lots below minimum dimensions left over after subdividing land) are prohibited. Such areas shall be added to adjacent lots or made part of the interconnected open space within the development, but shall not remain as unusable parcels.
3.
Conformance to the comprehensive plan and other regulations. Approval shall be considered in the context of the comprehensive plan, the city concept plan, these regulations, the city zoning ordinance, and other regulations in effect at the time of submission for review.
a.
The comprehensive plan and the city concept plan shall be considered in the subdivision design.
b.
Where state and/or federal roads or rights-of-way controlled by state and federal agencies are affected, the review and approval of the DOT is required.
c.
Dedications and reservations.
(1)
All transportation facilities such as highways, major thoroughfares and other streets and any pedestrian and bike trails shall be platted by the developer consistent with the city's official zoning map and the comprehensive plan and other adopted plans of the city, including without limitation the city concept plan, whichever plan is the most recent.
(2)
Sites for public facilities (other than transportation) such as schools, parks, libraries, fire stations, public utilities or other public use or open space, shall be shown as dedicated or as reserved on the preliminary and final plats when:
(a)
Any of said public facilities are shown in the comprehensive plan and located in whole or in part in a proposed subdivision or development; or
(b)
Any of said public facilities have not been anticipated by the comprehensive plan, but are reasonably considered by the mayor and council to be essential to or extremely important to the development of the city or that neighborhood or part of the city in which the project lies.
(3)
Refusal of dedication offer. Whenever the plat proposes the dedication of land to public use and the city manager or his/her designee finds that such land is not required or suitable for public use, the city manager or his/her designee may either refuse to approve said plat or it may require the rearrangement of lots to include such land.
4.
Paved road access. No subdivision shall be approved for construction or development unless the street providing access is paved, at least 20 feet wide, with hot mix asphalt paving, such that the subdivision has continuous paved road access to the city-road system.
5.
Name. The name must have the approval of the mayor and council and any designated county authority, and shall not duplicate nor closely approximate the name of an existing subdivision in the county or any of its cities.
6.
Street names.
a.
The proposed names shall be submitted to the city clerk for approval by the city manager, and shall not duplicate nor closely approximate the name of existing streets in the county or any of its cities.
b.
Proposed streets obviously in alignment with existing streets or with proposed streets whose names have been approved by the city shall bear the names of the existing or proposed named streets.
7.
Street addresses. The number assigned shall conform to the existing house numbering system under the systematic addressing and building numbering standards adopted by the county and utilized by the city, as amended.
8.
Blocks.
a.
Residential blocks. Unless otherwise approved by the city manager and city engineer under unusual circumstances, block lengths shall not exceed 1,200 feet nor be less than 400 feet. Provided, however, in the AR and DR districts, the maximum block length is 800 ft.
In blocks greater than 1,000 feet, the city manager and city engineer may require easements not less than ten feet wide across the street for crosswalks, fire protection or utilities.
Blocks shall be wide enough for two rows of lots, except when prevented by topographic conditions or size of the property, or for lots along the periphery of the subdivision, or where abutting upon limited access highways or railroads, or where other situations make this requirement impractical, in which case the city manager and city engineer may approve a single row of lots.
b.
Nonresidential blocks. Blocks for other than residential use shall be of such length and width as may be suitable for the prospective use, including adequate provision for off-street parking and service, subject to section 8.04.C or similar provisions of the city zoning ordinance.
9.
Lots. The size and setbacks shall conform to all dimensional requirements of all applicable city regulations.
a.
Vehicular access. All lots shall front on a public or private street or on a private access drive as hereunder controlled and from which vehicular access may be obtained. Each lot shall have usable vehicular access from its own lot frontage onto a public or private street, or a private access drive as provided for in these regulations.
b.
Minimum lot dimensions and areas.
(1)
Every lot shall conform to the dimension requirements in the zoning ordinance and these regulations, plus every lot not served by a public sewer or community sewer and/or public water shall meet the dimension requirements of the health department.
(2)
The shape and orientation of every lot shall be subject to approval of the city manager and city engineer for the type of development and use contemplated based on slopes, drainage, soil types, exposure and other such relevant considerations.
c.
Adequate building sites. Building setback lines shall conform to setback requirements of the zoning ordinance and these regulations. Each lot shall contain a site large enough for a building that will meet all building requirements as set forth in the zoning ordinance and these regulations.
d.
Arrangement. Insofar as practical, side lot lines shall be perpendicular or radial to street lines, including cul-de-sacs.
e.
Through (double frontage) lots. Double frontage lots, unless approved by the mayor and city council, shall be prohibited except where essential to provide separation of residential development from traffic arteries (arterial or collector streets) or to overcome specific disadvantage associated with topography, orientation, and property size.
A planting screen reservation at least ten feet wide, or equivalent natural landscape buffer, may be required along the property line of lots abutting such a traffic artery or other incompatible use. The planting screen reservation shall form and constitute a no access easement, unless otherwise approved by the mayor and city council.
Through (double frontage) Lots
f.
Corner lots. Corner lots shall have extra width to permit appropriate building setback from and orientation to both streets. In no case shall this be less than the minimum front yard setback for the zoning district on both street fronts. Each lot shall contain a site large enough for a building that will meet all building requirements as set forth in these regulations and in other city ordinances.
g.
Reserve strips. Reserve strips, which control access to streets, alleys, and public grounds, are prohibited unless deeded to the city. This shall be noted on the construction plans and plats.
h.
Lots abutting lakes. The subdividing of land adjacent to an existing or proposed lake, shall be such that lots abutting the lake shall be drawn to the centerline of the lake. Such requirements may be waived upon submittal to the mayor and council of an acceptable method for the maintenance of the lake and any recreational operations to be provided thereon. The required area of each lot shall exclude areas within the high water level of the lake.
10.
Areas for future development. If part of a tract is reserved for future development, the dimensions of the reserved lots must reflect the right-of-way for a future street. Such reserved area must be labeled "Reserved for Future Development" on the final plat, and the portion where a street will be built must be labeled "Future Street." Such reserved area will not be eligible for a building permit unless the lot meets all requirements of these regulations, including all lot requirements of the zoning district.
Sec. 5.4. - Required improvements.
1.
Streets. The following shall be installed by the subdivider and dedicated to the city.
a.
Storm sewer, drainage, curbs and gutter, ditches, related easements and appurtenances, as needed to provide proper drainage and grading of the streets.
b.
Street paving.
c.
Street name signs of the quality and design used and approved by the city engineer.
d.
All traffic control signs, devices, and striping as specified by the city engineer.
2.
Required improvements generally. The following improvements shall be provided by the developer per the requirements and standards in this article:
a.
Survey monumentation.
b.
Streets providing access to all lots, including the extension of streets required to provide access to adjoining properties.
c.
Streets wholly within a subdivision shall be improved per this article. For existing streets that adjoin such a development, right-of-way shall be dedicated as a project improvement and as further necessary for deceleration and turn lanes, measured from the centerline of the street along the development's frontage.
d.
Curb and gutter along all roadways.
e.
Street name signs, striping and traffic control signs as approved by the city.
f.
Street lights.
g.
Driveway access to each lot.
h.
Project access improvements (deceleration, turn lanes, etc.) as deemed necessary by the city engineer.
i.
Sidewalks (including without limitation pedestrian and bicycle trails).
j.
Stormwater drainage and detention facilities.
k.
Public or private water supply.
l.
Fire hydrants.
m.
Public or private sanitary waste disposal and/or reuse water system.
n.
Dedication of easements as required by these regulations.
3.
Continuing maintenance period.
a.
Continuing maintenance period established. The developer shall maintain and keep in good repair all improvements constructed by him from the date of completion and acceptance of the work by the city for two years.
b.
Maintenance and performance surety. Prior to approval of a final subdivision plat or issuance of a certificate of occupancy, maintenance surety for all public improvements shall be provided by the developer, and performance surety shall be provided for all required improvements not yet completed.
Sec. 5.5. - Survey.
1.
Survey monuments required. Documentation of monuments established by land survey is required. Such documentation must be consistent with requirements for both the Georgia Maps and Plats Act (O.C.G.A. § 15-6-67) and under these regulations. Monuments shall be indicated on plats to be recorded with the clerk of the superior court. All such monuments shall be properly set in the ground and approved by a registered land surveyor prior to final plat approval. Removal of monuments and resetting by anyone other than a registered land surveyor is prohibited.
2.
Exterior development boundaries. A minimum of two GPS/GIS monuments shall be installed. GPS/GIS monuments shall provide latitude, longitude, and elevation referenced to mean sea level. GPS/GIS monuments shall be four-inch by four-inch concrete with brass cap, one foot above the surrounding ground elevation.
3.
Lot and street corners. Permanent reference monuments shall be placed at property corners and other points such as points of curvature and tangent points. All monuments shall be marked with a solid iron rod or an iron pipe not less than one-half inch in diameter, at least two feet long, driven flush with the ground.
4.
Floodplain elevations. On developments containing floodplains, flood elevation references shall be set and referenced. Base flood elevations shall be shown on final plats per FEMA regulations.
Sec. 5.6. - Easements.
Easements are required for the following purposes, among others:
1.
Utility easements. Whenever necessary or desirable to locate a public utility outside the street right-of-way, the line shall be in an easement dedicated to the city (or other public entity) for such purpose.
a.
Utility easements along rear or side lot lines or passing through a lot shall be at least 15 feet wide and generally platted 7.5 feet on each lot when sharing a common line. No structure shall be built on such easement.
b.
Utility easements for private utilities shall be avoided except in cases where no other satisfactory arrangements can be provided for the installation of private utilities.
2.
Pedestrian easements. Pedestrian easements not less than ten feet wide, may be required for circulation, or access to schools, playgrounds, shopping centers, transportation, and other community facilities.
3.
Drainage easements.
a.
These shall be cleared, opened, and stabilized with erosion control measures to control surface water runoff.
b.
These shall be provided where a development is traversed by or contains a natural or manmade water course, impoundment, detention pond, floodplain, natural stream or channel. It shall conform substantially to the limits of such natural drainage feature, but shall be not less than 20 feet in width.
c.
Vehicular access to every stormwater detention facility shall be provided directly from an abutting street, or by access easement between the facility and nearest street. Such access easement shall be cleared of trees and shrubs, unpaved, no less than ten feet wide, and have a maximum grade of 12 percent.
d.
Drainage easements outside the street right-of-way shall be defined on the plat. The property owner shall keep the easement free of obstruction to assure the maximum designed flow at all times.
e.
Drainage easements for storm drain pipes and improved ditches shall adhere to the applicable city regulations regarding erosion control and stormwater management.
4.
Conservation and natural resource easements. These shall be clearly defined on the plat and deed of the individual property owner, and must conform to the applicable city requirements.
5.
Overlapping easements. Easements for water, sanitary sewers and drainage may be combined, with the approval of the city engineer, but must provide at least 7½ feet of pipe separation.
Sec. 5.7. - Protection of public rights-of-way and easements.
1.
Removal and relocation of utility facilities.
a.
Any utility using any part of a public road right-of-way or easement shall remove and relocate its facility when, in the reasonable opinion of the city, the facility constitutes an obstruction or interference with the use or safe operation of such road or when, in the reasonable opinion of the city, the facility will interfere with construction or maintenance.
b.
When the city reasonably determines it necessary to have a utility facility removed and relocated, the city shall give the utility at least 60 days' written notice directing the removal and relocation of such utility obstruction. If the utility does not thereafter begin removal within a reasonable time sufficient to allow for engineering and other procedures reasonably necessary to the removal and relocation of the utility facility, the city may give the utility a final notice directing such removal shall commence within ten days from receipt of such final notice. If such utility does not, within ten days from receipt of such final notice, begin to remove or relocate the facility or fails to complete the removal or relocation within a reasonable time, the city may remove or relocate the same, and the expenses of such removal or relocation may be paid and collected as provided herein.
2.
Replacement right-of-way for relocated utility.
a.
When a public road improvement necessitates the acquisition of a utility's privately owned rights-of-way and the relocation of such utility's facilities, the city may, with written consent of the utility, provide a replacement right-of-way.
b.
Whenever a public road improvement requires the relocation of a utility occupying public road rights-of-way, the city may, at the written request of such utility, provide to the utility a right-of-way which is not on public road right-of-way. In this event, the utility shall reimburse the city for the acquisition costs.
c.
Title to property acquired for utility relocations may be transferred to such utility. However, the procedures for sale of property shall not be applicable to the transfer of property acquired for utility relocation. Any such property transfer to the utility shall be conveyed by the execution of a quitclaim deed.
3.
Payment of expenses of removal and relocation of utility facilities. The expenses incurred by the city as a result of utility removal and relocation, including the cost of acquiring new land or interest therein, shall be paid out of the available appropriations of the city for the construction or maintenance of public roads. A statement of such expenses shall be submitted to the utility, which shall make payment to the city. In the event the utility does not make payment or arrange to make payment to the city within 60 days, the city shall certify the amount for collection to the city attorney. Nothing in this article shall be construed so as to deprive any utility, relocated from a location in which it owned a property interest, of compensation for such property interest.
4.
Promulgation of regulations.
a.
The State of Georgia, Department of Transportation, Utility Accommodation Policy and Standard, most recent edition, is adopted as the rules and regulations of the city with the following exceptions:
(1)
Section 3.2(a) Where to apply is deleted and adopted in lieu thereof is the following "Applications for utility encroachment permits shall be made at Watkinsville, Oconee County, Georgia at the Office of the City Clerk."
(2)
Section 3.2(b) Authority to Approve is deleted and adopted in lieu thereof is the following "The city engineer shall have full authority to approve requests for utility encroachment permits."
(3)
Section 3.9(c) Notice to Other Utilities is deleted and adopted in lieu thereof is the following: Applicants shall comply with "Blasting or Excavations Near Underground Gas Pipe and Utility Facilities" Chapter of Georgia Code Ann. (O.C.G.A. § 25-9-1 et seq.).
(4)
Appendix A, B, and C are deleted.
(5)
The rules and regulations adopted are those used by the state. Wherever in the course of using or interpreting such rules and regulations, reference is made to the state, the DOT or other state department, officer or employee, same shall be interpreted to refer to the analogous city department, officer or employee, i.e., a reference to the state shall be interpreted to mean the city, a reference to the DOT shall be read to mean the city engineer or a reference to a state road shall be generally read to mean county or city road.
Sec. 5.8. - Streets.
These regulations require that all streets, whether public streets or private streets (other than private access drives meeting the requirements hereof), be built to minimum standards of material and construction. All measurements and visibility distances shall conform to the latest edition of the AAHSTO policy manual. The following cross-sections set forth the basic requirements, but are not a substitute for the detailed specifications set forth thereafter.
Street Cross Section
1.
Access.
a.
A publicly approved paved street meeting the requirements of this article shall serve every lot within a subdivision. Private streets must meet all public street standards.
b.
A building permit shall not be issued on any property that does not front on or have approved access to a publicly dedicated street or an approved private street, in accordance with the minimum lot frontage and access easement provisions of these regulations and all other applicable city regulations.
c.
No subdivision shall be designed to eliminate street access to adjoining parcels.
d.
Subdivision streets that intersect an arterial or major collector road shall do so at intervals of not less than 500 feet, or as required by the Georgia DOT, whichever is greater. On all other roads, at least 250 feet must separate street intersections on the same side of the road, measured centerline to centerline. Compliance with sight distance requirements of these regulations may require greater distances. Provided, however, that per chapter 8.04.C.3 of the zoning ordinance, curb cuts are limited to no more than one per 125 feet within the DT, EC, CC, and MUO districts.
2.
Relation to present and future street system. The design and layout of all streets shall conform to the general highway map of the city and Oconee County or portions thereof for streets, highways, and pedestrian ways. In addition:
a.
The street system in the subdivision shall relate to the existing street system in the area adjoining the subdivision. Horizontal and vertical alignments and other design elements shall substantially conform to these regulations, AASHTO Policy on Geometric Design of Highways and Streets, and Georgia DOT design standards. Where conflict exists, the city engineer shall determine which standard shall apply.
b.
Design of streets at railroads, parkways, or grade separations are subject to conditions imposed by the city engineer per the circumstances in each case.
c.
When a subdivision abuts a road in the state system of primary highways, an access road extending the full length of the subdivision along such highway and providing limited access thereto may be required at a distance suitable for the use of the land between such access road and highway.
d.
Where a subdivision abuts or contains an existing or proposed arterial street, the city engineer shall require an access road, or a single tier of through (double frontage) lots, or such other treatment as will provide protection for abutting properties, reduction in the number of intersections with the arterial street, and separation of local and through traffic.
e.
Subdivisions shall be laid out to discourage through traffic on local streets. However, the provision for the extension and continuation of arterial and collector streets into and from adjoining areas is required. Each street which is the continuation of or approximately the continuation of an existing street shall be shown on the preliminary plat and final plat and be given the same name as such existing street or way.
f.
Existing streets that adjoin a subdivision boundary shall be deemed a part of the subdivision. The proposed street system within a subdivision shall have the right-of-way of existing streets extended no less than the required minimum width. Subdivisions that adjoin only one side of an existing street shall dedicate one-half of the additional right-of-way needed to meet the minimum width requirement for the street as a project improvement. If any part of the subdivision includes both sides of an existing street, all of the required additional right-of-way shall be dedicated.
g.
All right-of-way required for off-site improvements related directly to the subdivision, such as acceleration or deceleration lanes, shall be acquired by the developer at no expense to the city.
h.
Where, in the opinion of the city manager and the city engineer, it is necessary to provide for interparcel access to adjoining property, proposed streets shall be extended by dedication of right-of-way to the boundary of such property and existing streets through the development.
(1)
Where an existing street on the adjoining property terminates at the boundary of the development or subdivision, the street shall be extended into the subdivision.
(2)
Where no street exists on the adjoining property, a temporary turnaround shall be provided at the boundary of the development or subdivision at an appropriate location.
3.
Street classifications. Streets, roads and highways are classified as local, minor collector, major collector, or arterials. The classification of each street is maintained in the public works department.
a.
Designation.
(1)
Streets shall be classified into a street hierarchy system as shown herein. Street design standards shall be based on road function and projected average daily traffic (ADT), calculated with trip generation rates published in the most recent edition of Trip Generation Manual by the Institute of Transportation Engineers.
(2)
For residential lots, this will generally be ten to 12 trips per day per family.
(3)
Trip generation rates from other sources may be used if applicant demonstrates these better reflect local conditions at the discretion of the city manager and city engineer.
(4)
Each street shall be classified and designed to that classification for its entire length. The applicant shall demonstrate that the distribution of traffic to the proposed street system shall not exceed the ADT thresholds for any of the proposed street classifications.
b.
Private streets.
(1)
If and when a plat indicates the construction of streets and utilities on private property, the owner shall indicate plans for the maintenance of such.
(2)
The construction specifications for such streets shall be the same as for public streets and access shall be provided over such streets to an existing public street having a right-of-way of not less than 50 feet.
(3)
The owner shall state, through an agreement prepared or approved by the city attorney, that the city shall have no responsibility for maintenance.
c.
Traffic impact studies.
(1)
To prevent/reduce traffic congestion and hazards and to ensure the safety and welfare of the traveling public, the developer shall provide traffic impact studies when the projected traffic exceeds 1,000 ADT combined for all entrances. Provided, however, if the location of the development warrants a lower threshold, in the judgment of the city engineer, a 500 ADT threshold may be utilized.
(2)
The traffic projection shall be based on the developer's most intense use allowed by the zoning on the property.
(3)
The scope of the traffic impact study will be based on the nature of the development, existing background traffic volumes and patterns, and future development along the adjoining corridors. The intent of the impact study is to identify the impacts to capacity, level of service, and safety to existing corridors and the actions required to mitigate these impacts.
(4)
The determination of the requirement for traffic impact studies shall be made by the city engineer using the above criteria. The design professional of record shall determine the scope of the impact study and obtain concurrence of the city engineer.
(5)
The traffic impact study and proposed mitigation measures will be provided and considered as part of the approval process for the preliminary plat.
4.
Design standards for streets.
a.
[Rights-of-way]. Rights-of-way and width shall conform to the standards shown below. All measurements and visibility distances shall conform to the latest edition of the AAHSTO policy manual.
EXPAND
Street Design Standards
Arterial 1 Major Collector Minor Collector Local Street
Average daily trips (ADT) 10,000+ 2,501—9,999 251—2,500 250 or less
Minimum right-of-way, in feet 100 60 50 50
Minimum pavement width, in feet 4 48 24/,30 20 20
Maximum grade 6% 10% 10% 12%
Minimum stopping sight distance, feet 495 360 200 155
Design speed, in MPH 7 55 45 30 25
Minimum centerline radius, in feet 8 2000 1100 375 250
Minimum length of tangent between reverse curves, in feet 300 200 100 100
Pavement radius at intersections, feet 30 30 30 30
Minimum finished grade 1% 1% 1% 1%
  1  Geometric design standards of the Georgia Department of Transportation shall represent minimum requirements for arterial street design and construction. All other street classifications shall adhere to current AASHTO standards; relating to design speed, stopping sight distance, vertical and horizontal controls.
4  Pavement width does not include curb and gutter.
7  In some instances, the city engineer may grant a change from the designated design speed, based on traffic volumes, road configuration, and the number of proposed entrances or outlets. In all instances, the posted speed limit shall accurately reflect design criteria, based on current AASHTO standards.
8  Based on minimum middle ordinate of 14 feet for ten-foot lanes and 15 feet for 12-foot lanes. May be adjusted with review of supporting data and approval by city engineer.
b.
Street grades.
(1)
A street grade exceeding ten percent for minor collector streets and 12 percent for local streets will be approved only when conclusive evidence shows that a lesser grade is impractical and would not cause detrimental land disturbance, erosion and distraction of vegetative cover, or stormwater hydraulic complications. In any case, any deviation from these standards shall still be in compliance with current AASHTO standards as determined by the city engineer.
(2)
All street grades shall be no less than one percent.
(3)
Grades approaching intersections shall not exceed five percent for a distance of not less than 40 feet, measured from the nearest right-of-way line at the point of intersection unless otherwise approved by the city engineer. Slope lines shall be extended beyond the eight feet minimum to achieve the proper corner/intersection sight distance.
c.
Curved streets. Under no circumstance is a curved street to be reverse super elevated. All streets (unless super elevated) shall have a one-quarter-inch per foot center crown above gutter elevation. Crown slopes shall be transitioned over a distance of 50 feet from any intersection, to provide a proper tie-in at the mainline edge of pavement.
d.
Street intersections.
(1)
As far as is practical, all proposed streets shall be continuous and made to connect with existing streets without offset. In all cases of offsets, centerline jogs of less than 125 feet shall not be permitted.
(2)
All street intersections and junctions shall be at right angles, unless otherwise approved for good cause by the city engineer, but not less than 80 degrees.
(3)
In addition, at all street intersections and junctions, there shall be a minimum stopping sight and corner sight distance in accordance with AASHTO Policy on Geometric Design. The profile shall be flattened at intersections to provide an area of not over five percent grade extending at least 40 feet each way from the intersection. In no case shall the stopping sight or corner sight distance be less than indicated herein.
(4)
Islands within roadways at intersections shall be subject to individual approval by the city engineer. In no case shall anything extend more than three feet above the pavement within the right-of-way of the street.
(5)
Curb lines at street intersections shall have a radius of curvature of not less than 30 feet. Where the angle of street intersection is less than 90 degrees, a longer radius may be required.
(6)
Intersecting street right-of-way lines shall parallel the back of curb of the roadway.
(7)
All measurements and visibility distances shall conform to the latest edition of the AASHTO policy manual.
e.
Minimum sight distance.
(1)
In all Zoning Districts, no fence, wall, structure, shrubbery, or other obstruction to vision between the heights of three feet and 15 feet, except utility poles, light or street sign standards or tree trunks, shall be permitted within 20 feet of the intersection of the right-of-way lines of streets, roads, highways or railroads.
(2)
Lines of sight shall be provided along street roadways (i.e., "midblock") and at street intersections in accordance with this subsection. The sight line shall be clear along its entire minimum length and unimpaired by intervening changes in street grade, horizontal alignment or obstructions. Examples of obstructions are vegetation, ground cover, signs, existing topography, etc.
(3)
Midblock visibility requirements. The following shall be met at any point along the entire length of a street in between intersections:
(a)
Minimum vertical and horizontal midblock visibility requirements are shown on table 5.1.
(b)
Midblock visibility distances shall be measured along the centerline of the roadway between two points four feet above pavement level.
EXPAND
Table 5.1: Minimum Sight Distance
Midblock Visibility At Intersections
Vertical Horizontal Urban Rural
Major arterial street* 500 feet 500 feet 650 feet 800 feet
Minor arterial street* 500 feet 500 feet 600 feet 700 feet
Collector street* 300 feet 300 feet 400 feet 550 feet
Local street 200 feet 200 feet 350 feet 350 feet
  * Per Georgia DOT for State and U.S. numbered highways.
(4)
Visibility requirements at street intersections.
(a)
At an intersection where traffic is to be controlled by stop signs on the minor road, said minor road shall be designed to intersect the major road in accordance with the standards imposed by the Georgia DOT, where applicable; and where not applicable the minor road shall intersect at such location as will provide minimum sight distance in either direction along the major road as required in Table 5.1.
(b)
Visibility distances at intersections shall be measured from a point on the centerline of the entering street 14.4 feet back from the nearest edge of the roadway in the abutting street, and extending in both directions along the abutting street. Minimum sight distances are to be measured from the driver's eyes, which are assumed to be 3.5 feet in height above the pavement surface, to an object two feet high on the pavement in the center of every on-coming travel lane.
(5)
Exceptions.
(a)
Where it is deemed by the city engineer that the application of a minimum sight distance requirement would render a property un-developable, the city engineer may require the installation of appropriate warning signs and flashing lights, a traffic signal, or other hazard reducing approach.
(b)
Any modification to the required sight distances stated herein made by the city engineer for cause shall conform to the standards and requirements contained in AASHTO policy.
f.
Dead-end streets (cul-de-sacs).
(1)
Cul-de-sac or permanent dead-end streets shall be terminated by a turnaround. They shall be separated from the exterior boundary or topographic boundary of the subdivision by the depth of one lot or 80 feet, whichever is less.
(2)
Cul-de-sac streets shall not exceed 1,000 feet in length unless otherwise approved by the city engineer. They shall terminate in a circular right-of-way with a minimum diameter of 120 feet and a paved diameter of 94 feet. This shall be measured to the edge of pavement in un-curbed cul-de-sacs and to the back of curb in curb and gutter cul-de-sacs.
(3)
A dead-end street other than a cul-de-sac shall not be allowed except as a temporary stage of construction of a street that will be extended in a later stage of construction. Such non-permanent dead-end streets may exceed 1,000 feet in length, but shall terminate in a turnaround with a minimum right-of-way of 90 feet in diameter. Said turnaround shall be provided with provisions for adequate grading, drainage and six-inch thick gravel surface, and so indicated on the preliminary, final plat and construction plans.
g.
Alleys and service drives.
(1)
Alleys in residential subdivisions shall not be permitted, unless the alleys are intended to provide rear-access to garages on each lot and have a minimum roadway width of 20 feet of pavement, exclusive of curbs and gutters.
(2)
Alleys with a minimum width of 20 feet of pavement, exclusive of curbs and gutters, may be required by the city engineer where necessary to provide access to the rear of two or more lots designated for multi-family, business, or industrial use.
(3)
Dead end alleys are prohibited unless the dead-end alley is provided with a turn-around having a roadway radius of at least 40 feet, a "T-head" turn-around, or other solution acceptable to the city engineer.
h.
Half streets prohibited. Half streets along development boundaries are prohibited. Whenever a street is planned adjacent to the proposed development or subdivision tract boundary, the entire street right-of-way shall be platted within the proposed development or subdivision.
i.
Split level streets. A street that is constructed so as to have lanes in each direction at a different vertical level within the same right-of-way shall provide a pavement width of at least 14 feet in each direction and a vegetated median between the lanes having a slope of not greater than four to one. Split level streets will be allowed when:
(1)
Topographic conditions are such that alternatives to the typical street construction would be more desirable.
(2)
The shape and size of the parcel could be more efficiently developed.
In either case, approval must be obtained from the city engineer for the specific design.
5.
Street improvements.
a.
Construction standards. All materials, construction, and definitions shall conform to the current Georgia Department of Transportation "Standard Specifications for the Construction of Roads and Bridges," latest Edition, and any amendments thereto, unless otherwise stated herein.
b.
Curbs and gutters.
(1)
Vertical six-inch concrete curbs and gutters with a minimum overall width of 24 inches shall be constructed on all commercial and industrial streets. Rollback style concrete curbs and gutters with a minimum overall width of 24 inches may be allowed on residential streets with approval from the city engineer for the specific design.
(2)
Concrete curbs and gutters are required in all streets to channel water to the stormwater conveyance structure. Stormwater conveyance structures may include, but are not limited to, culverts, storm drainage pipes, catch basins, drop inlets, junction boxes and headwalls, and shall be provided for the protection of public rights-of-way and private properties adjoining project sites and/or public rights-of-way.
c.
Shoulder requirements. The street right-of-way shall be graded at least eight feet, measured from the back of the sidewalk on both sides of the street to provide space for installation of utilities, to prevent the encroachment of driveways into the street surface, and to provide walkways off the paved vehicular surface, and provide proper sight distances in curved roadway sections.
d.
Grassed medians. Vertical six-inch concrete curb and gutter shall be required for a grassed median on all streets. Such medians shall be designed to slope towards the outside curb of a street or contain an adequate drainage system within the median.
e.
Backfill, finish grading and grassing. Shoulders shall be sloped and backfilled as necessary following paving and curb and gutter installation as required by the city engineer. All curbs and gutters shall be backfilled according to the designs in these regulations. All eroded areas shall be reconstructed to the original final grade. Re-grass shall be required for bare spots, areas of insufficient stand and reconstructed areas.
f.
Sub-surface drainage systems. Sub-surface drainage installations may be required by the city engineer to provide a stable sub-surface and base for fills and base course construction over wet weather springs, soft spots, swamps and other unsuitable soils. The city shall require the owner to have a soil analysis and drainage design performed by the design professional of record if such conditions are encountered.
g.
Cuts, fills, and subgrade. Cuts, fills, and subgrades shall be subject to the approval of the city engineer. The city engineer may vary the required slope. The city engineer shall specify any improvements necessary to protect community assets and to reduce the potential undue deterioration of street improvements. The developer will be guided by the following general requirements:
(1)
Slope maximums shall be at a ratio of three feet horizontal distance to one foot rise (3:1). No slope line shall extend closer than eight feet to back of curb or 15 feet to edge of pavement on uncurbed sections. Minimum slope shall be one-half inch per running foot.
(2)
All slopes shall be adequately planted with approved vegetation. A suitable mulch of straw, hay, etc. shall be used.
(3)
The developer shall be responsible for any erosion that might occur until the expiration of the maintenance period.
(4)
Compaction shall be 95 percent by Standard Proctor Density Test. Subgrade compaction will be field tested through the use of a "roll test," as specified herein.
(5)
All organic and other unsuitable materials located within the proposed roadbed and two feet on either side of the back of curb or edge of pavement shall be removed prior to subgrade preparation.
(6)
Backfill behind curbs shall be free of organic material (roots, trunks, etc.), stone, broken concrete, etc. Topsoil and other similar unsuitable soil types removed from the roadbed may be utilized for shoulder construction, but not for fill construction, beyond eight feet on either side of the back of curb or edge of pavement. The use of topsoil within eight feet of the back of curb or edge of pavement shall be limited to a maximum depth of six inches.
(7)
Cut and fills shall be extended beyond the right-of-way as required, but a slope easement must be provided for maintenance purposes. Trees outside of the graded right-of-way with driplines extended into the right-of-way may be removed at the direction of the city engineer. Such tree removal shall be required on a case-by-case basis due to public safety concerns, potential interference with public infrastructure, or the survivability of the tree.
(8)
Sub-base stabilization may be required by the city engineer as specified herein if necessary to allow safe access of construction vehicles and equipment.
(9)
Shaping and backfilling of shoulders, ditches and slopes shall be accomplished to final grade lines following the installation of underground utilities by the owner. Care shall be taken to fill and compact settled or eroded areas.
(10)
Grassing of all cleared portions of the shoulders and slopes shall be accomplished immediately following the achievement of final grade lines. If limitations require the application of temporary vegetative cover, the owner shall make contractual provisions for re-grassing with permanent cover. Requirements for grass species, mixture, fertilizer and application methods in each individual subdivision shall be in accordance with the Soil Conservation Services standards for critical areas. Bermuda grass shall be required during the season from May through September and as permanent grass species.
(11)
Conduits for utility crossings shall be installed before subgrade inspection. Said conduits shall be indicated on the construction plans. No bores will be allowed for utility distribution/transmission systems after subgrade inspections or paving operations without prior approval of the city engineer.
h.
Street base.
(1)
Base course; description. The base course shall consist of graded aggregate of a minimum compacted thickness placed on a stabilized subgrade in accordance with these specifications and in conformity with the lines, grade and typical cross-section as shown on the drawings approved by the city. Tolerance is +/-0.10 foot. Base course depth requirements vary based on estimated traffic volumes and street classification.
(2)
Base course materials.
(a)
All materials shall be secured from Georgia Department of Transportation approved sources.
(b)
All aggregate material shall meet the GDOT requirements as contained in section 800 for Group I or II; and Class A or B.
(c)
Graded Aggregate shall consist of hard, durable particles of fragments of stone, and stone mortar, and shall be graded as follows:
EXPAND
Table 5.2 : Standards for Graded Aggregate
Sieve Size Designation Percent by Weight Passing Square Mesh
2 inches 100%
1 inch 95%—100%
3 inches 60%—100%
No. 10 30%—45%
Material Passing No. 10 Sieve Percent
Passing No. 10 Sieve 100%
Passing No. 60 Sieve 15%—70%
Passing No. 200 Sieve 3%—25%
Siltless Clay 9%—25%
  i.
Required base and pavement thicknesses.
(1)
The following Table 5.3 shall be used to determine the minimum thickness for each layer of the pavement structure based on the classification of the roadway. The pavement structure for development entrances shall be based on the classification of the adjacent mainline roadway.
EXPAND
Table 5.3: Minimum Base and Pavement Thickness
Industrial/Business 1 Arterial Major
Collector Minor
Collector Local Street
Graded Aggregate Base Course 10 inches 10 inches 8 inches 8 inches 6 inches
Asphalt Binder Course 9 inches 6 inches 4 inches 2 inches 2 inches
Surface 1-2 inches 1-2 inches 1-2 inches 1-2 inches 1-2 inches
  1  The industrial/business uses classification shall apply to all industrial parks, commercial developments, and all other public roadways which are planned to support business and industry. Private facilities are not included in this classification.
(2)
Alternative pavement structures may be considered by the city for approval for arterial and higher classification streets, or streets with unusual or poor subgrade conditions. Unusual or poor subgrade conditions shall be defined as soil structures with a modulus of subgrade reaction of less than or equal to 100 psi/in or a soil structure that is not stable after conventional compaction techniques. Said structures shall be designed by a registered professional engineer, licensed in the state, in accordance with AASHTO and GDOT design policies and procedures. Design data and calculations shall be provided with any alternative design. The design professional shall consult with the city engineer for the appropriate design methodology and factors that are to be used in the design process.
j.
Roll testing. Both the subgrade and base course will be load tested when required by the road and bridge inspector with a minimum 18-ton hauling capacity tandem dump truck, fully loaded or an equivalent. The test shall cover the material thoroughly to assure a maximum tolerance of a one-half-inch settling and the absence of any cracking or pumping, prior to all paving. This test shall be witnessed by the city engineer.
6.
Private streets. Private streets are available only upon approval by the mayor and council and city engineer, and only for use in the case of city approved developments that wish to utilize entry gates, mixed forms of property ownership, new urbanist design standards or other non-traditional public road design requirements. These private streets will be owned and maintained by a mandatory homeowners association and not by the city. Neither private nor public streets are necessary in a development that does not have separate lots, but only units, such as an apartment or condominium development. Internal driveways and parking lot aisles shall meet the city parking and loading requirements. All lots that do not qualify for the requirements of this section six, "Private Streets," must be located on a public street or road meeting all the requirements of this chapter.
a.
Allowed locations. Private streets may only be constructed in the following zoning districts: detached residential and attached residential.
b.
Private streets (other than private access drives), if approved by the city, shall meet all minimum geometric design requirements per International Fire Codes and all AASHTO design standards for that road's posted speed, but in no case shall the design speed be less than 15 miles per hour.
c.
Private streets (other than private access drives), if approved by the city, shall meet all construction requirements and standards that apply to public streets.
d.
Private streets shall be located within a separate parcel of land, no less than 50 feet wide, that is owned by the homeowners association for the development. The width shall include the private street, any drainage structures, sidewalks, or utilities, and must provide the same minimum width required for right-of-way for a similar public street.
e.
Private streets may not be located in an easement over multiple lots.
f.
The private street shall be located within an easement coincident with the parcel required under section 5.8.6.d. The easement must be recorded with each lot's deed and grant the right of vehicular access to every other lot served by the street, as well as the right to place public and private utilities therein.
g.
Road maintenance.
(1)
The city will not maintain roadways, signs, or drainage improvements on private streets. All developments utilizing private streets are required to have mandatory Homeowners Association. The HOA shall comply with all provisions of the subdivisions article of these regulations.
(2)
As part of the mandatory homeowners association, covenants are required for any lots on a private street. Provisions for maintenance shall be included in the homeowners association covenants. The covenants shall set out the distribution of expenses, remedies for non-compliance with the terms of the agreement, right of use easements, and other considerations. The covenants shall include the following items:
(a)
The covenants shall establish minimum annual assessments in an amount adequate to defray costs of ordinary maintenance and procedures for approval of additional needed assessments.
(b)
The covenants shall include a periodic maintenance schedule.
(c)
The covenants for maintenance shall be enforceable by any property owner served by the road or by the homeowners association established by the covenants.
(d)
The covenants shall establish a formula for assessing maintenance and repair costs equitably to property owners served by the private road.
(e)
The covenants shall run with the land.
(f)
The covenants shall not be dissolved or be modified in any way so as to conflict with these regulations.
(g)
Maintenance shall include, but not be limited to, road surfacing, shoulders, signs, storm drainage facilities and vegetation control.
(h)
A notice that no public funds of the city are to be used to build, repair, or maintain the private road.
h.
Owners release.
(1)
At the time of purchasing property that is served by a private street, upon any sale or resale of a property, the purchaser shall acknowledge by execution of a release that the street is private and not maintained by the city, and that maintenance of the street is the responsibility of the homeowner's association. The release is to be prepared using a form acceptable to the city attorney and shall be recorded with the clerk of the superior court along with any warranty deeds.
(2)
The final subdivision plat shall provide notification that all properties served by the private street are perpetually subject to the provisions of these regulations regarding the owner's release upon any sale or resale of the property.
(3)
Failure to execute such a release shall not relieve the purchaser of maintenance responsibility for the private street.
i.
Lot dimensional requirements. For a property served by a private street:
(1)
The building setback, lot width and other dimensional requirements of the zoning district in which the property is located shall be measured from the private street parcel.
(2)
Land located within the private street parcel shall not be included in the area of the lot for the purpose of meeting the minimum lot area required by the zoning district in which the property is located.
(3)
The developer shall grant an exclusive and irrevocable access and utility easement to the city that is located coincident with the private street parcel.
(4)
The city may require additional easements for any utilities not located on the private street. All easements shall meet the minimum sizes required by the city.
j.
Other standards.
(1)
Where private streets intersect public streets, private streets shall meet the requirements of public streets including intersection offset requirements, deceleration and acceleration lanes, intersection gradients, and other applicable design and construction requirements of these regulations.
(2)
The HOA shall provide all maintenance activities and related actions to ensure compliance with the city's NPDES permit for stormwater discharges.
(3)
A private street subdivision shall meet all other requirements and standards that apply to public subdivisions, such as stormwater runoff and detention requirements, the provision of utilities, sidewalks, and traffic and street name signs.
(4)
Private streets shall be denoted as such on the street name signs for each such street. Proposed streets, which are extensions of, or in alignment with, existing or other proposed streets shall have the same name. Street names shall not duplicate or be phonetically similar to existing street names. The city requires a different standard for a public street name sign indicating that the street is "private" or "not maintained by the city."
(5)
The developer is to obtain the street signs from the city and install them to city specifications at the developer's expense.
(6)
Gates are subject to the approval of the mayor and council based upon recommendation of the city engineer, using as criteria the various standards and requirements of these regulations. Any gate placed across a private street that limits access to a subdivision or development shall provide for unimpeded access by emergency vehicles, governmental vehicles on official business, and delivery services including the U.S. Postal Service. Such gate shall be of breakaway or other construction acceptable to the city and the county. Accessibility to such gated communities shall comply with all standards and requirements of the county fire chief for access activation, including the following:
(a)
Programmable keypad with an emergency override code as assigned by the fire chief;
(b)
Once the override code is used to open the gate, the gate will remain open until emergency personnel release the gate for normal use;
(c)
Automatic opening of the gates in the event of power failure; and
(d)
Reassignment of an emergency override code without the approval of the fire chief is not allowed.
k.
Final plat requirements.
(1)
Developments containing private streets shall meet all requirements of the procedures and permits article of these regulations relating to final plats, except that bonds or deposits shall not be submitted in lieu of the design professional's certified report for the private streets. A copy of the design professional's certified report shall be maintained with the homeowner's association board of directors.
(2)
All private streets shall be designated as such on the final plat.
(3)
A notice in at least 12-point bold font shall be placed on the final plat that reads:
The streets designated as "private streets" on this plat are owned and maintained by the homeowner's association of this development and are not owned or maintained by the city. No public funds of the city are to be used to build, repair, or maintain these private streets. The owner, purchaser, lender, heirs, assigns, or other parties taking title to or otherwise procuring an interest in any portion of this property are hereby notified of this fact.
(Amd. of 9-21-2022 )
Sec. 5.9. - Street signs, traffic signs and striping.
1.
Street name signs.
a.
Sign installation shall be accomplished by the owner, per Georgia DOT standards and the FHWA Manual on Uniform Traffic Control Devices and city standards. Signs, striping, and traffic control devices shall be installed prior to final plat approval or issuance of the certificate of occupancy (for site developments). Upon paving of a road in an uncompleted subdivision, the developer shall barricade or install proper signage and striping at the intersection with existing city roads. All country roads shall be signed at each intersection, so as to identify all country roads in each approach to the intersection. Warning signs shall be installed on existing city and/or county roads in advance of any new intersection created with existing city or county roads from the development.
b.
Street name signs and traffic control signs of approved design shall be installed at all street intersections by the developer or owner of the subdivision, at his expense. These signs shall be placed at the intersections upon completion of street paving. The signs to be installed shall be ordered through the city. The installation of all signage, striping, and traffic control devices shall be completed before final plat approval.
c.
All streets shall be designated by name on a metal street signpost, with such metal post having nameplates of metal set one above the other with a clearance of seven feet. The post shall be so located as to be visible for both pedestrian and vehicular traffic. At cross-street intersections, two sign posts shall be located diagonally across the intersection from each other. Only one street signpost shall be required at T-street intersections. All signs shall conform to the guidelines contained in the Manual on Uniform Traffic Control Devices. The developer shall be responsible for all costs associated with the installation of street signs. Plans shall show all street signs, speed limit signs, traffic control signs and devices and pavement markings.
2.
Traffic signs.
a.
Traffic control signs shall conform to the FHWA Manual on Uniform Traffic Control Devices, latest edition.
b.
The developer shall install these traffic control signs at his expense. All traffic control signs shall be installed and approved by the city engineer and public works department prior to final plat approval or issuance of a building permit.
3.
Striping requirements.
a.
Striping requirements shall be determined by the city engineer and public works director in accordance with applicable Georgia DOT, FHWA, city standards. Costs associated with striping shall be the responsibility of the developer.
b.
Striping shall be accomplished with striping materials meeting Georgia DOT and city standards and conform to the Manual on Uniform Traffic Control Devices.
4.
Decorative signs and posts.
a.
Any traffic sign or post not conforming to city standards hardware will be considered as decorative.
b.
Any decorative sign or post system to be used must be approved by the city engineer director prior to construction plan approval.
Sec. 5.10. - Street lights.
a.
Street lights shall be provided in any subdivision or development project in accordance with the provisions in applicable city regulations.
b.
The installation of all street lighting fixtures within city right-of-way must be approved by the city engineer and code compliance officer prior to such installation.
Sec. 5.11. - Private bridges and dams on roadways (reserved).
Sec. 5.12. - Driveways and development entrances.
1.
Driveway permit.
a.
Driveway permit; required. Before installing any driveway or means of ingress and egress to any property abutting a city or county road or city or county maintained road, the owner of the subject property or the person installing said driveway acting as owner's designee shall make application to the city clerk for and receive a permit authorizing said installation. If existing curb and gutter is to be removed to facilitate the driveway, then a permit authorizing said removal shall also be required.
b.
Driveway permit; provisions.
(1)
The permit shall specify the location of the driveway, the width of same, the size and material for the culvert to be used and other matters required for adequate drainage of the driveway in accordance with accepted engineering and road management practices.
(2)
In issuing the permit the city may impose any reasonable conditions that the circumstances may warrant. Conditions include but are not necessarily limited to drive location, elevation, pipe size, surface treatment, drainage easements, and other requirements to facilitate safe maintenance and operation of city or county roads.
(3)
The driveway permit is to be strictly construed and no work other than that specifically authorized by said permit may be performed in city or county rights-of-way.
(4)
A driveway permit must be renewed if the work described is not completed within one year from the date permit is issued.
2.
Driveway design standards. Driveways connecting to a street must comply with the following standards:
a.
Driveway widths. Driveway widths at the right-of-way line cannot exceed a pavement width of 20 feet for a single-family dwelling (unless the face of a two-car garage accessed by the driveway is less than 30 feet from the right-of-way line), or 40 feet for all other uses or instances, exclusive of required curbs and gutters.
b.
Slope. The slope of ingress and egress driveways for multi-family and nonresidential uses at their connection to the adjoining street shall not exceed that allowed by city and county specifications for landings at residential street intersections. For single-family uses, driveways shall have a slope of not more than 17 percent for a distance of ten feet measured along the driveway centerline from the intersection of the centerline of the driveway and the edge of pavement or back of curb.
c.
Driveway separations.
(1)
The distance from a driveway to the intersection of two streets shall not be less than 20 feet for a single-family dwelling and not less than 50 feet for all other uses.
(2)
The distance between driveways along a street right-of-way shall not be less than ten feet for a single-family dwelling and not less than 40 feet for all other uses.
(3)
Separation distances must be measured along the street right-of-way line from the back of the driveway curb.
d.
Driveway property. The number of driveways that access a property from any one street, road or highway shall be limited as follows:
(1)
Along all city or county arterial roads, no more than one point of vehicular access from a property shall be permitted for each 300 feet of lot frontage. This is subject to chapter 8.04.C.2 of the city zoning ordinance, which limits curb cuts to no more than one per 125 of street frontage in the DT, ED, CC, and MUO districts. For such lots having less than 300 feet of frontage, one point of access shall be allowed. The number and location of access points along a State or U.S. numbered highway may be further restricted by the Georgia Department of Transportation.
(2)
Along all other city or county streets or roads, except for circular driveways for single-family detached houses on local streets and minor collectors (provided sight distances can be met), the following shall apply: no more than one point of vehicular access from a property to each abutting public road shall be permitted for each 200 feet of lot frontage; provided, however, that lots with less than 200 feet of frontage shall have no more than one point of access to any one public street. The city or county engineer shall determine whether the points of access may be unrestricted or must be designed for right-in, right-out traffic flow.
e.
Vision clearance. With the exception of signposts and other structures less than eight inches in diameter, structures and landscaping shall not exceed three feet in height within a triangle measuring 20 feet along the edge of a driveway and 20 feet along the street right-of-way line. A larger vision clearance area, depending on street classification, may be required under the project design and construction standards article of these regulations.
3.
Installation and construction standards for driveways.
a.
A minimum pipe size of 15 inches and minimum 20-foot length of pipe must be used for all driveway construction. A minimum pipe size of 18 inches must be used for all cross drains under public roads.
b.
Pipe for driveways may be either 16 gauge-corrugated steel or aluminum in accordance with city standards. Reinforced concrete may be used. Corrugated plastics are permitted within the city or county right-of-way with review and approval of the city engineer. Driveways requiring curb and gutter removal shall be installed in accordance with instructions and diagrams issued by the city engineer at the time of the application for permit.
c.
Portions of driveways located within the right-of-way of a public street or within a private street easement shall not consist of specialty or decorative type construction such as stamped concrete or brick pavers.
4.
Inspection of work. Driveway construction and material shall be the responsibility of the owner/applicant for the permit. All work shall be in conformity with the permit as granted and shall be subject to inspection by authorized representative(s) of the mayor and council and/or the board of commissioners. No use of said drive or issuance of permits for uses of the property served thereby shall be permitted until such compliance is met.
5.
Responsibility for maintenance.
a.
No provision of this section shall be construed as a responsibility of the city or county to provide future maintenance of the driveway and/or drainage structures installed.
b.
By application and issuance of the permit, owner and successors agrees to bear all responsibility and cost for repair and maintenance of the driveway and associated drainage structures.
c.
If the owner or successors fails to maintain the driveway and/or associated drainage structures to the extent that the city engineer determines that the driveway and/or associated drainage structures has a detrimental impact on the safe operation and maintenance of city roads, notice shall be given to the owner.
(1)
Owner shall perform the necessary action(s) to correct the detrimental impacts at the sole expense of the owner.
(2)
Failure of owner to perform the necessary work within the time prescribed in the notice shall be cause for the city or county to perform the work. Expenses incurred by the city or county to perform the work shall be the responsibility of the owner.
6.
Driveway access to a state road. For all business and industrial developments fronting on a state highway, no building permit shall be issued until the approval of the state department of transportation has been obtained by the applicant on entrances and exits, curb radii, drainage and other matters that are the appropriate concern of the department.
7.
Private access drives. Each subdivision development shall contain no more than one private access drive.
a.
A private access drive which meets all of the following standards may serve a maximum of five lots within the commercial and industrial use districts. Within all other zoning districts, a private access drive, which meets all of the following standards, may serve a maximum of three lots:
(1)
The minimum overall easement width shall be 25 feet; greater width may be required to accommodate necessary utilities. The minimum continuous paved surface shall be 16 feet in width and paved with two inches of asphalt surface on a four-inch crusher run stone base applied on a properly prepared sub-grade. Stabilized shoulders shall be provided and shall be three feet wide on both sides, (compacted and grassed or graveled or paved).
(2)
Maximum centerline slope of 17 percent and cross sloped or crowned for drainage.
(3)
Maximum centerline length of 2,000 feet as measured from the intersection with the public right-of-way line to the end of the cul-de-sac. In the case of looped drives, which extend continuously from public right-of-way line to public right-of-way line, this 2,000-foot maximum length may be waived, provided that public health, safety, and welfare considerations are adequately addressed.
(4)
A paved turning area shall be provided at the termination of cul-de-sac drives with a minimum outside radius of 47 feet plus three-foot-wide stabilized shoulders, contained within the easement boundaries.
(5)
In subdivisions which are subject to the provisions of the county water system ordinance, the lot(s) served by a private access drive shall also be served by water lines and fire hydrants in accordance with the county's adopted water and wastewater standards. Such water lines, if installed along the alignment of the private access drive, shall include, as an appurtenance thereto, a perpetual maintenance easement of sufficient dimensions as required by the county's adopted water and wastewater standards to provide for the maintenance of said water lines. Similar easement(s) shall be provided for sewer service and/or other utilities as applicable.
(6)
Private access drives shall be clearly marked as such on all subdivision plats and shall comply with the signage provisions of these regulations and shall comply with the provisions hereof and other applicable city ordinances.
(7)
Private access drives which do not meet each and all of the above standards shall serve no more than two lots and shall comply with the provisions of applicable city ordinances.
b.
Each lot, the access to which is dependent upon a private access drive, shall have, at a minimum, as an appurtenance thereto, a perpetual easement for ingress and egress over that portion of the private access drive lying adjacent to such lot and connecting it with a public street.
8.
Access easements. Vehicular access may be provided from a public street via easement in any one or more of the following circumstances:
a.
The property existed in whole as a legal lot of record prior to the adoption of these regulations, but does not meet the minimum frontage requirement for the applicable zoning district. The property must be served by an exclusive access easement that shall be limited to the provision of access to only one principal use or structure on one lot.
b.
The access easement serves one single-family residence on a lot which is otherwise a buildable lot of record, and which is sharing a common driveway with one other single-family residence, both of which meet the minimum size, frontage, lot width and other requirements of these regulations and other applicable city regulations.
c.
The access easement was lawfully established as such prior to the adoption of these regulations.
d.
The access easement coincides with a private street approved by the city or county. The ownership and maintenance responsibility by private party(s) must be clearly established on the final plat of the development.
e.
The access easement serves a buildable lot of record which meets the minimum frontage requirements of these regulations, but from which access cannot be achieved.
(Amd. of 9-21-2022 )
Sec. 5.13. - Deceleration lanes and turn lanes.
1.
Deceleration and turning lanes; where required. Subdivision entrances from minor collector streets with an ADT equal to or greater than 500 vehicles per day and higher classifications shall include a deceleration lane.
2.
Residential subdivision entrances. Entrance streets to all major residential subdivisions connecting to a minor collector, major collector or arterial street with an ADT equal to or greater than 500 vehicles per day, shall construct a deceleration lane at each entrance to the subdivision.
3.
Commercial/industrial subdivision entrances.
a.
A deceleration lane shall be installed at all entrance roads into a commercial or industrial subdivision connecting to a minor collector, major collector, or arterial street with an ADT equal to or greater than 500 vehicles per day.
b.
The city engineer may require a traffic study to determine if the project's size warrants a center turn lane, longer deceleration lane, an acceleration lane or other improvements. If the traffic study determines that the traffic generated by the project warrants it, the city engineer will require the additional improvements or other mitigating measures.
4.
Driveways for multi-family and nonresidential development projects.
a.
Multi-family and nonresidential development projects shall install a deceleration lane at each driveway entrance connected to a minor collector, major collector or arterial street with an ADT equal to or greater than 500 vehicles per day. For such a project located on a corner lot, a continuous 12-foot wide travel lane shall be provided in lieu of a deceleration lane along each intersecting street from which access is allowed, for the length of the property's frontage (but not exceeding 200 feet plus a 50-foot taper).
b.
Nonresidential development projects on corner lots that have frontage on interior residential subdivision streets shall have access only from the main street.
c.
Multi-family and nonresidential development projects projected to generate an ADT less than 500 vehicles per day and having an entrance on a minor collector, major collector or arterial street shall install offset radii and 50-foot tapers.
d.
The city engineer may require a traffic study to determine if a center turn lane, a longer deceleration lane, an acceleration lane or other improvements will be necessary. If the traffic study determines that the traffic generated by the project warrants it, the city engineer will require the additional improvements or other mitigating measures.
5.
Deceleration and turn lane construction standards.
a.
A minimum 100-foot long (150 feet where possible) deceleration lane with 50-foot taper and a minimum 25-foot taper on the acceleration side.
b.
The length of the deceleration lane, (and acceleration side taper), shall be measured from the radius return point.
c.
The width of the lane shall be no less than 24 feet from the centerline of existing two-lane road to outside edge of new asphalt (26 feet to back of new curb).
d.
Curb and gutter along all deceleration lanes and tapers are required, unless otherwise waived or modified by the city engineer due to site, drainage or continuity considerations.
e.
Associated drainage improvements as deemed necessary by the construction of the deceleration or turn lane shall be required.
f.
Other project access improvements may be required by the city engineer in addition to or in lieu of a required deceleration lane in order to ensure adequate site access, pedestrian access, convenience and safety to the motoring public, based on a traffic study prepared by a professional engineer.
g.
The developer will pay the cost of any catch basins that must be constructed along an existing city or county road as a result of the deceleration lane.
h.
Utilities and drain pipes shall be relocated at the developer's expense outside of the deceleration lane.
6.
Median breaks. If the street has an existing or proposed median, and the developer is approved by the city and Georgia DOT, as applicable, to construct a median break to serve the development, a left turn lane leading to the median break shall be provided by the developer meeting the design standards of the city and county. Other improvements may be identified by the city engineer that are needed to ensure safe and efficient operation of traffic.
Sec. 5.14. - Sidewalks.
1.
Sidewalks; requirements. Pursuant to chapter 8.05.C.4 of the city zoning ordinance, sidewalks shall be located within the right-of-way, unless otherwise approved by the city. Chapter 8.05.C.2.a of the city zoning ordinance requires sidewalks throughout a development. Chapter 8.05.C.2.b requires sidewalks on one side of the road in DR zoning district and both sides in all other zoning districts. Sidewalks shall be separate and distinct from motor vehicle circulation to the greatest extent possible. The pedestrian circulation system shall include gathering/sitting areas and provide benches, landscaping and other street furniture where appropriate. A sidewalk plan shall be submitted by the subdivider with the construction plans for the development. Sidewalks shall be installed on an individual lot basis at the time of construction of the individual home, apartment building, commercial, or other use. Sidewalk networks within individual development shall connect to existing or planned networks or shall further potential connectivity to the existing or planned sidewalk/bicycle network. The developer shall install all handicap ramps and transitions as required by the city and county for Americans with Disabilities Act compliance at the time of development construction. The city engineer shall inspect the location and construction of the sidewalk, and no certificate of occupancy shall issue until the required sidewalk is properly installed.
a.
Sidewalks shall be four inches thick, with a minimum width of five feet if set back from the curb. However, sidewalks shall be six feet wide if at the curb face. Sidewalks adjacent to storefronts in the HM, SM and DT districts shall be consistent with the average sidewalk width on a block if building in an area with existing sidewalks.
b.
Where the sidewalk is required to abut the curb face pursuant to chapter 8.05.C.3 of the zoning ordinance, there shall be no grass planting strip between curb and sidewalk. Otherwise, there shall be a grass planting strip with a minimum width of three feet between the back of curb and the sidewalk, with a ten-foot-wide planting strip required for major collector and arterial streets outside the right-of-way.
c.
All sidewalks shall be sloped at a two percent minimum slope toward the street, unless otherwise approved.
Sec. 5.15. - Storm drainage.
See the erosion control and stormwater management regulations of the city and chapter 9.04 of the zoning ordinance for design requirements relating to storm drainage.
Sec. 5.16. - Utilities.
1.
Utilities required. Except for minor subdivisions otherwise exempt from the construction of utilities, the improvements listed below are required. Where installed upon property within the city at the time of construction, all such improvements shall be dedicated and conveyed or transferred to and the title shall vest in the city unless otherwise indicated on the recorded plat of subdivision. Nothing contained in this section is in any way intended to affect matter of litigation pending between the city and/or their agencies at the time of enactment of these regulations before courts of competent jurisdiction relating to the ownership of improvements required by this section.
a.
Developer shall provide sanitary sewer or septic capacity, fire protection lines and necessary flows for the project as required by applicable codes. Said capacity shall be demonstrated to the satisfaction of the utilities department in accordance with established codes prior to issuance of land disturbance and building permits.
b.
Developer shall be responsible for providing and paying for necessary water and sewer extensions including the addition of necessary capacity required to serve the development.
2.
Water supply.
a.
Water supply and/or distribution system in accordance with the "Oconee County Water and Wastewater Standards," which is incorporated herein by reference, or other such documents as adopted by the Oconee County Board of Commissioners.
b.
All potable water systems shall be subject to applicable current "Rules for Safe Drinking Water: Chapter 391-3-5, Revised June 1989 or most recent revision, Georgia Environmental Protection Division" and applicable city and county regulations, policies, and construction standards.
c.
Public water service shall be provided to every lot in every subdivision and to every development for both domestic use and fire protection if public water is available or under bid or contract to be available within 1,000 feet of the subdivision or development.
3.
Fire hydrants.
a.
Fire hydrants are required in all subdivisions and development projects served by a public water system.
b.
Fire hydrant spacing shall be in accordance with the water system specifications of Oconee County, which are incorporated herein by reference. Placement of fire hydrants is subject to approval by the Oconee County Fire Department and Utility Department.
c.
Fire hydrants as specified by the Oconee County Fire Department shall be located every 500 feet or at every intersection, whichever is closer.
4.
Sanitary sewage disposal.
a.
Sanitary sewer system with service connection to the property line for each parcel and lot; except in cases where septic tanks are approved by the city and the county health department.
b.
The provisions of this paragraph are further subject to any sewer or wastewater use priority policies adopted by the city and the Oconee County Board of Commissioners from time to time.
Sec. 5.17. - Location of utilities and street cuts.
1.
Location of utilities in streets.
a.
Utility lines shall be located in accordance with the street cross sections contained herein, or at such other locations as may be approved by the city and Oconee County. Any underground utilities shall be installed with the surface having the same compaction as that of the paved way and marked on the plat to indicate the location of the underground utilities.
b.
The subdivider shall install sewer mains, sewer laterals, water mains and services extended to the property line of each lot, in accordance with accepted engineering practices, the approved subdivision construction plans, and the Oconee County Utility Department Water and Wastewater Standards, which are incorporated herein by reference.
c.
In cases where public water and sewer services are not available, the minimum lot sizes shall conform to those set forth in these regulations and other applicable city regulations.
d.
Design criteria for storm drain facilities shall conform to accepted engineering practices and guidance documents. Pipe materials shall conform to all criteria set forth in the erosion control and stormwater management regulations of the city and other applicable regulations.
e.
Site lighting shall be oriented to the interior of the site so as not to impose glare or objectionable light levels on the neighboring residential property.
f.
Water mains for both domestic use and fire protection shall be properly connected with the public water system, or with an alternate water supply approved by the city and county and Georgia EPD. The lines shall be constructed in such a manner as to adequately serve all lots shown on the subdivision plat. The lines shall be installed in conformance with the Oconee County Utility Department Water and Wastewater Standards. The county will require network distribution analysis of the water distribution system for any development that the peak hour water demand is equal to or exceeds 50 gpm.
g.
Above-ground utilities. All fire hydrants, utility poles, street lights, transformer boxes and pedestals, and other public or private utility structures placed above ground within a public street right-of-way or private street easement must be at least six feet back from the back of the street curb (or edge of pavement).
h.
Underground utilities.
(1)
All electric, telephone, cable TV and other wires shall be placed underground in any major subdivision, and in any multi-family or nonresidential development.
(2)
Utilities placed underground within a public street right-of-way or private street easement shall be located as shown on the utility location cross-sections in these regulations, above. Where no public or private street exists or is proposed (such as in a shopping center), utilities shall be placed in accordance with the development plans as approved by the city.
(3)
The right-of-way is to be cleared and rough graded the full width prior to any utility installation.
(4)
Underground utilities including sewer services, all water lines and any cable conduits under the pavement shall be placed in the ground before the base material is in place, or the pipes shall be bored if installed after street construction.
(5)
All trenches shall be thoroughly compacted in six-inch layers with mechanical compacting equipment.
(6)
The facilities for underground utilities such as sewer, water, and gas, including sewer and water laterals to each lot line when laid in streets, shall be in place prior to surfacing of streets. All facilities for utilities shall be placed in easements provided for that purpose in the subdivision.
(7)
Any disturbance or construction in the completed (seeded and/or sodded) right-of-way by a public utility such as power, gas, phone and cable must be repaired or replaced with the specified materials as called for in the initial improvements.
2.
Pavement cuts.
a.
If utility services are installed after the streets have been paved (i.e., under existing streets), such utility services shall be installed by boring under the street. Note that this applies only to services and not the distribution system in the development.
b.
When it is necessary for a subdivider or any utility company to break existing base or pavement for the installation of services, or any other purpose, the subdivider or utility company shall be financially responsible for the repair of the pavement. The pavement shall be repaired with a patch in accordance with standards developed by the city engineer, and in accordance with all other specifications required herein for construction of streets.
(1)
No existing city or county road can be open cut unless unusual circumstances warrant it. All utility construction plans within the city or county rights-of-way shall be reviewed and approved by the appropriate city and/or county offices.
(2)
If a pavement cut is approved, all trenches shall be backfilled and compacted the same day the trench is opened. Trenches under the paving shall be returned to 95 percent compaction. The backfill in all such ditches will be thoroughly compacted in six-inch lifts, the subgrade shall be brought to the lines, grades, and typical roadway section required by city specifications.
DIVISION II. - PROJECT CONSTRUCTION

Sec. 5.18. - Overview—Project construction.
All improvements shall conform to standard specifications as set forth in these regulations and in the applicable regulations of the city, and/or other state and federal regulations. In case of conflict, the more stringent standards shall apply.
1.
Responsibility during construction.
a.
The developer and his/her design professional of record have full responsibility for quality control and inspection during construction to ensure substantial conformance with the approved construction plans, city standards, city regulations, and generally accepted construction practices. City and county personnel are only providing construction observation to intermittently check the adequacy of the developer's quality control and inspection.
b.
Any construction issues requiring an interpretation and/or change in the plans, standards, and/or regulations are to be resolved by the design professional of record and presented to the city engineer for written concurrence or approval. Any design changes must be revised on the construction plans and issued as a change to the approved construction plans.
c.
Failure of the developer to provide adequate quality control and inspection which results in a substantial nonconformance with the plans, standards, regulations or generally accept construction practice or endanger the public health, safety, and welfare shall be cause for the city engineer or city manager or his/her designee to issue a stop work order for any or all portion(s) of the construction in accordance with city procedures and ordinances. The order will remain in effect until the developer or his/her design professional of record can demonstrate to the city that adequate quality control and inspection will be provided to address and correct the nonconformance and minimize the potential for further non-conformance issues or endangerment issues.
d.
Each day of continued construction on the scope of work covered by the stop work order under these regulations shall be considered a separate violation.
e.
The developer controls the means, sequence, and methods of construction. As such, the developer has full responsibility for safety on the project site and compliance with all federal, state, and local regulations pertaining to safety and environmental requirements.
f.
Preconstruction activity. Following the issuance of any permit authorizing clearing and grading of a site, areas required to be undisturbed, such as natural landscape buffers or stream buffers, must be designated by survey stakes, flags, ribbon, or other appropriate markings and shall be inspected and approved by the city engineer and city manager or his/her designee prior to the commencement of any clearing or grading activities.
g.
Grading.
(1)
Grading shall be done in accordance with the lines and grades drawn on the approved grading plan.
(2)
Required erosion and sedimentation control measures and stormwater drainage facilities are to be installed in accordance with the approved plans as development progresses.
2.
Development phase inspections. Requests for inspections shall be made by the owner or contractor to the code compliance officer in accordance with the listing of inspection responsibilities established by the city. Such requests shall be made at least 24 hours prior to when the inspection is needed. Inspections shall be made and passed prior to continuation of further activity or proceeding into new phases. Inspections are required of each of the following phases, as applicable to the actual work to be performed under the development permit:
a.
Prior to clearing or clearing and grubbing of the property or any portion included under the development permit, inspection of erosion and sedimentation control measures and protective devices for undisturbed areas. Inspection of erosion and sedimentation control measures will be conducted on a continuing basis.
b.
Upon completion of street grading, inspection and approval shall be required prior to trenching or continuation with subgrade preparation.
c.
Upon installation of storm drainage pipe, detention, or other stormwater facilities.
d.
Street curbing and gutter (if provided). Inspection shall be requested after the forms or string line have been set. Street width and vertical and horizontal alignment may be spot-checked.
e.
Sub-grade of streets. The sub-grade may be roll tested in accordance with these regulations.
f.
Street base. The base may be string-lined for depth and crown. The street base will be tested for depth and compaction in accordance with these regulations, and may be roll-tested in accordance with these regulations, at the discretion of the city engineer.
g.
Paving. The code compliance officer and/or the city engineer may be on site during the paving process to check consistency, depth, and workmanship, as applicable. For asphalt paving, the temperature of the material will be monitored, the asphalt will be tested for depth and compaction in accordance with these regulations, and may be roll-tested in accordance with these regulations, at the discretion of the city engineer and the city manager or his/her designee.
3.
As-built data.
a.
Upon completion of the development activity as authorized by the development permit and prior to final development inspection of public and private improvements, the owner shall submit to the code compliance officer for distribution to the city engineer and the city manager or his/her designee, as appropriate, for review and approval a complete set of record drawings showing "as-built" conditions prepared by the design professional of record who prepared the original plans, or a professional land surveyor, engineer or landscape architect licensed in the state. These drawings shall show the location of:
(1)
Street centerlines and rights-of-way lines.
(2)
Drainage system pipes, manholes and channels, including finished elevations.
(3)
Stormwater detention facilities including finished elevations.
(4)
Sanitary sewer system (if any) including finished elevations.
(5)
Water system and reuse water system (if any) including finished elevations.
b.
The as-built data shall be certified and sealed by the design professional of record or other professional preparer, subject to the tolerances of accuracy indicated in the certification.
4.
Final development inspection.
a.
Following submission and review of the as-built data, the code compliance officer and city engineer shall conduct a final development inspection of the project.
b.
The owner shall be responsible for correcting any deficiencies identified in the final development inspection prior to approval of a final subdivision plat.
(Amd. of 9-21-2022 )
Sec. 5.19. - Site clearing and grading.
Grading and land disturbance operations shall not begin until approval of the preliminary plat or site plan (as applicable), subdivision construction plans and soil erosion and sediment control plans and until a pre-construction conference has been conducted with city and county officials, the developer, developer's consultant, contractors and subcontractors.
1.
Initiation of clearing and grading activities.
a.
Clearing and grading shall not proceed until issuance of an approved development permit authorizing such activities. No development permit authorizing clearing or grading shall be issued prior to review and approval by the city of construction plans as applicable to the property. See the procedures and permits article of these regulations for details.
b.
Grading shall be done in accordance with the lines and grades drawn on the approved grading plan. Protective devices for undisturbed areas, if any are required, must be installed, inspected, and approved in accordance with the approved construction plans prior to the initiation of clearing and grading activities.
c.
Erosion and sedimentation control measures. Required erosion and sedimentation control measures must be installed, inspected, and approved in accordance with the approved soil erosion and sedimentation control plan prior to any major development activity, and shall be maintained or supplemented as development progresses.
d.
Stormwater drainage facilities. Required stormwater drainage facilities are to be installed in accordance with the approved stormwater management plan as development progresses.
2.
Slopes.
a.
Cut or fill slopes in the public right-of-way and/or slope easements shall not exceed three horizontal units to one vertical unit, unless otherwise approved by the city engineer based on topographic conditions. This is the maximum allowable slope and should not be considered the norm. If grading plans indicate cut or fill slopes outside of the right-of-way then the construction plans and final plat shall indicate slope easements for the required grading.
b.
No cut or fill slopes or existing unadjusted slope shall encroach closer than eight feet from the curb back in curbed sections or 15 feet to the edge of pavement for uncurbed sections on any street right-of-way within the subdivision. A cut or fill slope between lots should be confined to the lower lot whenever possible so as to avoid erosion from the higher lot to the lower lot.
c.
All fill slopes created for the purpose of street or home construction shall have a compaction of not less than 95 percent as determined by the established engineering practices.
d.
All slopes created or existing within the subdivision or as a result of the subdivision development shall be planted or otherwise protected from erosion and failure.
Sec. 5.20. - Excavating and trenching.
1.
Definitions related to excavating and trenching. The following words, terms, and phrases, when used in this article, shall have the meanings ascribed to them in this section, except where the context clearly indicates a different meaning:
Excavation: (1) The mechanical removal of earth material. (2) Any manmade cavity or depression in the earth's surface, including its sides, wall, or faces, formed by earth removal and producing unsupported earth conditions by reasons of the excavation. If installed forms or similar structures reduce the depth-to-width relationship, an excavation may become a trench.
Excavation and trenching certificate: The certificate issued upon satisfactory completion of a mandatory training/educational program regarding excavation and trenching safety practices, such program to be provided by or approved by the county fire department.
Excavation and trenching certificate holder: The holder of the "excavation and trenching certificate" identified above.
OSHA: The U.S. Department of Labor, Occupational Safety and Health Administration, or successor agency.
Trench: A narrow excavation made below the surface of the ground. In general, the depth is greater than the width, but the width of a trench is not greater than 15 feet.
2.
Unauthorized excavating and trenching prohibited. No individual, partnership, corporation, or other entity of any kind whatsoever shall engage in any excavation or trenching except in compliance with the provisions of this section and in compliance with any applicable laws of the state or of the United States or the Occupational Safety and Health Administration (OSHA), or any other state or federal governmental entity or department rules and regulations applicable to excavating and trenching.
3.
Adoption of OSHA safety and health regulations. All safety and health regulations adopted by OSHA with regard to excavating and trenching operations, particularly part 1926, Subpart P—Excavations, Trenching, and Shoring Section 1926.650, 1926.651, 1926.652, 1926.653 of the Code of Federal Regulations, as the same now exist or may be hereafter amended, are adopted as a part of these regulations as if quoted verbatim herein.
4.
Excavation and trenching certificate required. The city will honor excavation and trenching certificates issued by other agencies if such agencies can satisfactorily show proof of their training/educational program for excavation and trenching safety practices.
5.
Permit required.
a.
No excavating or trenching shall be performed until a permit for same has been obtained from the city (see the procedures and permits article of these regulations). All applicants shall be required to acknowledge receipt and understanding of safety requirements before a permit will be issued. All such permits shall be conspicuously posted upon the job site.
b.
No permit shall be issued unless an authorized agent of the applicant holds an excavation and trenching certificate.
6.
Enforcement of excavating and trenching requirements.
a.
The city engineer or the code compliance officer shall have the authority to cause any trenching or excavation work in progress to be halted upon a finding that these certificate requirements are not being met on the particular job site. The said city official may issue a verbal warning or a written citation in his discretion or may recommend to the city manager a revocation of the permits of responsible persons.
b.
No excavation and trenching certificate shall be suspended or revoked, except for due cause, and after a hearing before the mayor and council upon written notice to the holder of such certificate of the time, place and purpose of such a hearing and a statement of the charge upon which such hearing shall be held. Three days notice shall be deemed reasonable, but shorter or longer periods of notice shall be authorized as the mayor and council may deem appropriate. Due cause for revocation shall consist of the violating of any laws or ordinances regulating excavating or trenching. At any such hearing, the excavation and trenching certificate holder shall be entitled to be represented by an attorney and to cross examine any witnesses who may appear and to present evidence in his own behalf.
c.
No excavating or trenching permit shall be suspended or revoked except for due cause and after hearing before the mayor and council after notice to the permit holder of the date, time and place of hearing, along with a statement of the charges upon which the hearing is to be had. The violation of any laws or ordinances regulating excavating or trenching as set forth hereinabove shall constitute due cause for suspending or revoking such permit. Three days' notice shall be deemed reasonable, but shorter or longer periods of notice shall be authorized as the mayor and council may deem appropriate. At such hearing, the permit holder shall be entitled to be represented by an attorney, to cross-examine all witnesses who may appear against him, and to present evidence in his own behalf.
7.
Inspection. The city engineer and code compliance officer or his or her designated representative shall periodically inspect trench/excavation sites. Such inspectors shall, among other things, verify the presence of the required permits, the existence of required excavation and trenching certificates and compliance with OSHA safety standards hereinabove adopted.
8.
Violations. In addition to the provisions of the administration and enforcement article of these regulations, the following shall apply to violations under this section:
a.
Violations of this section may result in revocation or suspension of any excavation and trenching certificate issued hereunder as set out above.
b.
Violations of this section may result in revocation or suspension of excavating/trenching permits issued hereunder as set above.
c.
When oral notice is not deemed sufficient a written notice of violation may be issued for any deficiency. Upon receipt of such notice, the deficiency shall be corrected immediately.
d.
Excavation and trenching work upon any job site shall be required to cease immediately upon discovery that there is trench activity by any person not an excavation and trenching certificate holder, when there is a refusal or failure to correct deficiencies immediately or when such work is being done without a permit.
e.
If deficiencies identified in a notice or violation are not timely corrected, the building permit, land disturbance permit or any other permit may be suspended or revoked for due cause upon the conditions herein identified for revocation of authorization.
f.
Flagrant or repeated violations shall be reported by the city to OSHA for action by that agency.
Sec. 5.21. - Installation of streets and utilities.
1.
Permit for utility installation. This section governs the installation of telephone lines, gas lines, water lines, sanitary sewer lines, gray-water reuse lines, electrical lines, fuel lines, steam lines, T.V. cables, open storm drainage, storm sewers, and other utilities within city-maintained road or street rights-of-way.
a.
Application for permit; when required.
(1)
New facilities or extensions of existing facilities within city or county-maintained road or street rights-of-way shall require a written application and a permit issued by the appropriate department.
(2)
Service lines and maintenance and repair of existing facilities shall not require a permit unless a pavement cut is required, but all other requirements of these regulations shall apply to said activities, where applicable.
(3)
Emergency cuts without a permit may be made when required. Such cuts shall be followed by a written application or report to the city engineer and utilities coordinator within two working days thereafter. Repairs to the pavement and disturbed soil and all other applicable requirements of these regulations shall apply to such emergency cuts.
b.
Application for permit; requirements. Application for permit for utility facility installation shall be made to the county utilities coordinator.
(1)
In the case of water lines and sanitary sewer lines, the applicant must submit four copies of a plan showing the proposed installation to the utilities coordinator. Said plans shall be approved or denied, or additional information shall be requested, within 30 days or said plans shall be deemed to have been approved.
(2)
A request for breaking of pavement must be described in detail in the application.
(3)
in those cases where a state department of transportation application and permit is required, a copy of the department of transportation application and permit along with the expected date of work commencement shall be provided to the county utilities coordinator and said copy shall satisfy the application and permit requirements herein.
c.
Installation and construction requirements.
(1)
The installation of said facility as authorized shall be subject to the inspection, direction and control of the city and the county's engineer or utilities department (as appropriate) who shall be notified before work is commenced. Such notification shall include the date and time of the commencement of the construction and/or installation and location of same.
(2)
The work shall be performed in a workmanlike manner and all installations shall be done by the utility owner in such a way as to leave free flows in drainage ditches, pipes, culverts or other surface water drainage facilities of the roadway or its connections. No part of any installation shall be attached to any portion of a bridge, culvert or other structure of the roadway without special authorization of the city engineer after detailed information is furnished as may be required.
(3)
Where breaking of pavement has been approved, a six-inch concrete slab will be poured over the backfilled trench and will rest on undisturbed soil. If the pavement is asphalt, the surface of the six-inch, concrete slab will be 1½ inches below the surface of the abutting pavement. The 1½-inch section will be paved with type E, F, or H plant asphalt. The finished surface will be smooth and flush with abutting pavement.
(4)
Underground piping and wiring will be installed and located in accordance with these regulations. Where underground piping parallels the roadway the excavated ditch edge nearest the pavement will be at least eight feet from the pavement edge, unless otherwise authorized herein.
(5)
The facility trench shall be backfilled carefully after the facility has been installed, in accordance with the standard practice for installing culverts and minor structures. In crossing roadways the backfill will be made in six-inch layers and each layer firmly compacted. Where roadway grass is disturbed, satisfactory replacement will be accomplished including adequate seeding of new grass.
(6)
The full and entire expense and cost of the facility installation and maintenance shall be borne by the utility owner and the utility owner shall make necessary arrangements for traffic over said point during such work as may be directed by the city engineer. The utility owner shall place the necessary barricades, warning signs, signals, lights and, if necessary, watchmen for the protection of the traveling public, and further agrees by the acceptance of the permit to keep and hold the city and the county harmless from any and all damages caused by negligence on the part of the utility owner, its agents, servants, officers or employees, or contractors, engaged in doing said work, or any injuries or damages suffered by anyone as a result thereof.
d.
Future relocations at utility expense. In case the mayor and council should in the future decide to widen and/or relocate the existing road, they reserve the right to require the utility owner to take up and relay such sections of the facility within the right-of-way as may be necessary to take up and relay from an engineering standpoint due to such widening and/or relocating; the taking up and relaying to be at the expense of the utility owner. This work shall be completed within 60 working days after notification by the mayor and council or within such other time as may be approved in writing by the city engineer or designated representative of the city.
2.
Additional design and construction considerations. More stringent design and construction standards may be required by the city engineer where streets cross 100-year flood plain(s), serve as the only means of public ingress and egress to one or more lots, cross flowing streams, cross poor soils or encounter other similar conditions.
a.
General. All streets, roads, and alleys shall be constructed to provide the necessary paving, roadway, drainage, and safety requirements as provided herein and by other specifications of the city.
b.
Clearing and grubbing.
(1)
All streets, roads and alleys shall be graded to their full width so that pavement, shoulders and sidewalks, where required or proposed for future installation, can be constructed on a uniform plane. The right-of-way shall be cleared of all trees. Additional trees shall be removed outside of the right-of-way if the area under the dripline of the tree in the right-of-way is disturbed, as directed by the city engineer or code compliance officer.
(2)
Clearing, grading or other land disturbing activities associated with subdivision construction shall not commence until the preliminary plat, engineered construction plans and soil erosion/sediment control plans have all been approved by the city. This shall not be construed to prohibit necessary logging or survey operations prior to approval of such plans.
c.
Storm drainage. See the erosion control and stormwater management article of these regulations for requirements relating to storm drainage.
3.
Installation of utilities; general. All utility crossings, service lines, conduit, or other related appurtenances shall be installed within the limits of the roadbed plus two feet of each side of the pavement surface, prior to the placement and compaction of the graded aggregate base course. Utilities should be installed following the installation of curb and gutter, unless the curb line is accurately staked at 50-foot intervals to ensure proper utility locations as specified herein. The developer shall coordinate the location of all utilities and provide a copy of all as-built and proposed locations at final plat.
4.
Slopes and shoulder improvements. Slopes and shoulder improvements shall conform to the requirements hereof.
5.
Construction methods; roadways.
a.
Roadway grading and embankments.
(1)
All streets and roads shall be graded to their full width by the sub-divider so that pavements and sidewalks, where required or proposed for future installation, can be constructed on a level plane as shown in the cross-sections on the approved plans.
(2)
The entire area within the typical grading section shall be cleared and grubbed of all trees, bushes, stumps and debris. Such debris shall be disposed of in a lawful manner, and shall not be buried in the right-of-way or within the project limits.
(3)
Road fill of suitable material free of organic matter shall be placed in uniform eight-inch layers compacted to at least 95 percent of maximum density throughout as specified for construction and testing in the Georgia DOT standards for embankments. Embankment compaction test shall be taken at an interval not exceeding 2500 cubic yards. All storm drainage and other underground utilities installed under the roadbed and the backfill in all ditches shall be compacted to at least 95 percent maximum density. Compaction testing of backfill for said structures shall be taken at a minimum interval not less than one between any two structures. Compaction test results shall be reported to the city immediately after results are obtained.
(4)
Cut and fill slope ratios shall start at the edge of the right-of-way and shall not exceed 3:1 in the right-of-way and 2:1 outside of the right-of-way. In lieu of a cut or fill slope, a retaining wall may be utilized where necessary with the approval of the city.
(5)
Cut or fill slopes shall be uniform for each section of cut or fill. The depth of cut or fill shall be constructed to the maximum cut or fill occurring in any one section. When a cut made in rock requires blasting, the slope may be changed to an alternative slope grade upon written approval of the city.
(6)
If paving is to be delayed, provisions shall be made to drain low points in the roadway. If curbing has not been installed, a break in the berm section may be provided. If curbing is in place, four-inch pipe sections shall be used to provide drainage under the curb to side slopes.
(7)
All work must be approved by the city prior to preparation of the subgrade. It is the design professional's duty to inspect that road grading specifications has been met. The developer will provide to the city a statement of inspection completed by a registered professional engineer, licensed by the state, that all construction requirements have been met for roadway grading. The developer shall also provide certification to the city by a professional land surveyor or engineer licensed in the state that grading has been completed to the lines and grades to a tolerance of +/- six inches. The developer will also provide staking of the roadway centerline in conjunction with said certification for verification by the city engineer and code compliance officer. Upon presentment and approval of such documentation by the city engineer, road construction may continue.
b.
Preparation of subgrade.
(1)
All boulders, organic material, soft clay, spongy material and any other objectionable material shall be removed and replaced with approved material. The subgrade shall be properly shaped, rolled and uniformly compacted to conform with the lines, grades and typical cross-sections as shown on the drawings approved by the city.
(2)
The subgrade shall be scarified to a depth of eight inches, and compacted to 95 percent maximum dry density and within +/- three percent of the optimum moisture content. Subgrade compaction shall be determined by field testing at intervals not to exceed 1,500 feet. Compaction testing shall be accomplished in accordance with the standardized testing protocols of GDOT. Written test results shall be provided to the city engineer immediately after results are obtained.
(3)
It is the design professional's duty to inspect that subgrade preparation specifications have been met. The developer will provide to the city a statement of inspection completed by a registered professional engineer, licensed by the state, that all construction requirements have been met for roadway subgrade preparation. Upon presentation and approval of such documentation by the city engineer, roadway construction may continue.
c.
Preparation of aggregate base course.
(1)
All base course material shall be deposited and spread by means of spreader boxes, or approved mechanical equipment, or from moving vehicles equipped to distribute the material in a uniform layer.
(2)
Immediately following the spreading of the coarse aggregate, all material placed shall be compacted to the full width by rolling with a smooth wheel power roller of adequate size and weight to achieve compaction.
(3)
Any irregularities, areas of segregation, or depressions that develop under such rolling shall be corrected by loosening the material at these places and adding or removing material until the surface is smooth and uniform. The application of water, applied uniformly over the base course, may be required to achieve adequate compaction. Shaping and rolling shall be performed alternately as required to maintain a uniform compacted base until a surface or treatment has been applied to the base. Along curbs, headers and walls and at all places not accessible to the roller, the base course material shall be tamped thoroughly with mechanical tampers or approved hand tampers.
(4)
Graded aggregate base shall meet the requirements of Georgia DOT specifications for graded aggregate. Graded aggregate base compaction test shall be taken at an interval not exceeding one per 1,500 linear feet. No graded aggregated base shall be placed on muddy or frozen subgrade. The moisture content of the graded aggregate base shall be uniformly distributed and shall be adequate to allow compaction to the specified density. After the material placed has been shaped to line, grade and cross section, it shall be rolled until the course has been uniformly compacted to at least 100 percent of the maximum dry density when Group 2 aggregate is used, or to at least 98 percent of maximum dry density when Group 1 aggregate is used. The theoretical maximum dry density shall be established using the appropriate test methods of the Georgia DOT Sampling, Testing and Inspection Manual. Moisture content shall be within +/- 3 percent of the optimum content. Compaction test results shall be reported to the city engineer immediately after results are obtained.
(5)
After the base course has been installed and inspected, and before any surface is applied, all residential streets shall be primed with suitable asphaltic materials as per Georgia DOT Specification 412 unless asphalt paving commences within two weeks from acceptance of the certification from the period March 1 to December 1 or within 24 hours during the period December 1 to March 1.
(6)
It is the design professional's duty to inspect that graded aggregate base course preparation specifications have been met. The developer will provide to the city a statement of inspection completed by a registered professional engineer, licensed by the state, that all construction requirements have been met for roadway graded aggregate base course preparation. Upon presentation and approval of such documentation by the city engineer, roadway construction may continue.
d.
Asphaltic concrete construction.
(1)
Paving material shall consist of a conventional bituminous plant mix. The use of "Superpave" mix design will be permitted. Recycled asphalt products (RAP) will not be permitted for initial construction of roadways. RAP may be used in the binder course but only with prior approval of the city engineer and the code compliance officer.
(2)
Material, equipment, seasonal and weather limitations, preparation of road surface, material application and construction methods shall be the same as set out in the Georgia Department of Transportation's Standard Specifications for Road and Bridges, latest edition, and any amendments thereto.
(3)
Mix design(s) shall be provided to the city engineer for approval at least a minimum of two weeks prior to paving operations.
(4)
If paving will not be completed within two weeks after the base course is completed during the period March 1 to December 1, then, the base will need to be primed in accordance with GDOT Standards with the roadway being barricaded thereafter. The above will be required within 24 hours during the period of December 1 through March 1.
(5)
One asphaltic concrete extraction test per type mix shall be taken per subdivision. Extraction test results shall be reported to the city immediately after results are obtained.
(6)
Asphaltic concrete compaction test for each type mix shall be taken at an interval not exceeding one per 1,000 linear feet per one lane of roadway. All asphalt courses shall be compacted to no less than 95.5 percent of the target density. Compaction ranges of 95.4 percent to 93.4 percent will require a specific and separate three-year maintenance bond in the amount of 20 percent of the paving costs for the street affected. Compaction less than 93.4 percent will be cause for rejection and rework of the street section affected. The maximum pavement mean air voids will not exceed 7.8 percent in any instance. Compaction testing shall be accomplished in accordance with the appropriate standardized protocols for the GDOT Sampling, Testing, and Inspection Manual. Compaction test results shall be reported to the city immediately after results are obtained.
(7)
Where a binder course is provided on streets, a tack coat shall be applied to all prepared road surfaces as provided in Georgia DOT Specifications.
(8)
On streets where a binder course is provided, the final layer of asphalt shall be placed no later than one year after the binder course is laid or when 80 percent of the project is built-out whichever comes first.
(9)
The city engineer shall require that all work meet or exceed the above requirements.
(10)
It is the design professional's duty to inspect that the roadway asphaltic concrete construction specifications have been met. The developer will provide to the city a statement of inspection completed by a registered professional engineer, licensed by the state, that all construction requirements have been met for roadway asphaltic concrete construction. Upon presentation and approval of such documentation by the city, roadway construction will be considered as complete for the purpose of final plat.
e.
Base, asphalt and compaction testing.
(1)
Depth testing. The city engineer reserves the right to require depth checks on base materials and asphalt cores shall be taken at random locations at 500-foot intervals along each road at the discretion of the city engineer or the code compliance officer. Any area found deficient shall be brought up to the required thickness prior to placing any additional layer of material. All asphalt core holes shall be filled with hot mix asphalt of similar grade prior to final acceptance.
(2)
Additional testing requirements/coordination. All testing shall be scheduled with the city engineer and the code compliance officer, or his/her duly appointed representative no less than 24 hours in advance. Compaction testing shall not be performed until the surface/material is to the lines and grades shown on the plans. Once an embankment, subgrade, or base course has been certified then that material shall not be disturbed or additional testing will be required. All areas or sections of the subgrade and base course, which do not pass compaction testing, shall be corrected. Once the developer makes all necessary corrections, it shall be his/her responsibility to schedule any and all subsequent test. The city engineer and the code compliance officer may require that in addition to the compaction testing required, a roll test be performed in accordance with these regulations. All certifications provided shall contain all test data and results to support certification.
f.
Seasonal limits. No roadway construction material shall be deposited or shaped when the subgrade is frozen at any depth or thawing at any depth or during unfavorable weather conditions including rain of any intensity. Paving material installation shall be subject to temperature and weather conditions as contained in Georgia DOT construction standards. The time period from December 1 to March 1 will require special construction procedures unique to the individual sites and weather conditions. The contractor/developer shall consult with the city engineer and the code compliance officer during a supplemental pre-construction conference prior to beginning or continuing any roadway construction work during this period. It shall be the responsibility of the developer to schedule this conference.
(Amd. of 9-21-2022 )
Sec. 5.22. - Building construction.
1.
Building permit required.
a.
No construction activity of any kind including grading, installation of improvements, and building shall begin on any subdivision lot or site development project without the prior approval by the city engineer and issuance of a building permit by the code compliance officer.
b.
The code compliance officer shall not issue any permit for the erection of any building or structure to be located in any subdivision, a plat whereof is required to be recorded pursuant to the provisions of these regulations, until such plat shall have been admitted to record as provided for in these regulations.
2.
Building site development. Development and building construction on an individual subdivision lot (such as a single-family detached home) or development project site (such as a nonresidential building or multi-family project) shall be in accordance with the Grading and Draining of Individual Building Sites Section of the Erosion Control and Stormwater Management Article of these regulations.
3.
Soil preservation, grading, and seeding.
a.
Soil preservation and final grading. No certificate of occupancy shall be issued until final grading has been completed and the lot pre-covered with soil with an average depth of at least six inches which shall contain no particles more than two inches in diameter over the entire area of the lot, except that portion covered by buildings or included in streets, or where the grade has not been changed or natural vegetation seriously damaged. Topsoil shall not be removed from residential lots or used as spoil, but shall be redistributed so as to provide as least six inches of cover on the lots and at least four inches of cover between the sidewalks and curbs, and shall be stabilized by seeding or planting.
b.
Lot drainage. Lots shall be laid out so as to provide positive drainage away from all buildings, and individual lot drainage shall be coordinated with the general storm drainage pattern for the area. Drainage shall be designed so as to avoid concentration of storm drainage water from each lot to adjacent lots.
c.
Lawn grass seed and sod. Sod or any approved grass seed may be used to comply with any requirements of seeding set forth herein. Lawn grass seed shall be sown at not less than four pounds to each 1,000 square feet of land area. In the spring, the seed shall be sown between March 15 and May 15; and in the fall, the seed shall be sown between August 15 and September 30. All seed shall have been tested for germination within one year of the date of seeding, and the date of testing shall be on the label containing the seed analysis. All lots shall be seeded from the roadside edge of the unpaved right-of-way back to a distance of 25 feet behind the principal residence on the lot except for any portion left in an unaltered state. No certificate of occupancy shall be issued until re-spreading of soil and seeding of lawn has been completed; except that between October 1 and March 15, and between May 15 and August 15, the applicant shall submit an agreement in writing signed by the developer and the property owner, with a copy to the building inspector, that re-spreading of soil and seeding of lawn will be done during the immediate following planting season as set for in the ordinance, and leave a cash escrow for performance in an amount determined by the city manager or his/her designee.
4.
Debris and waste. No cut trees, timber, debris, earth, rocks, stones, soil, junk, rubbish, or other waste materials of any kind shall be buried in any land, or left or deposited on any lot or street at the time of the issuance of a certificate of occupancy, and removal of those items and materials shall be required prior to issuance of any certificate of occupancy on a subdivision. No items and materials as described in the preceding sentence shall be left or deposited in any area of the subdivision at the time of expiration of any subdivision improvement agreement or dedication of public improvements, whichever is sooner.
5.
Subdivision improvement agreement and security to include lot improvement. The applicant shall enter into a separate subdivision improvement agreement secured by a letter of credit or cash escrow to guarantee completion of all lot improvement requirements including but not limited to, soil preservation, final grading, lot drainage, lawn grass seeding, removal of debris and waste, fencing, and all other lot improvements required by the city. Whether or not a certificate of occupancy has been issued, the city may enforce the provision of the subdivision improvement agreement where the provision of this section or any other applicable law, ordinance, or regulation have not been met.
6.
Certificate of occupancy required.
a.
No dwelling within the city may be occupied for dwelling purposes until all required utility installations, including the water supply and sanitary sewer systems, have been completed to the satisfaction of the county health office and the city manager or his/her designee.
b.
No principal building of any kind, and no accessory building requiring issuance of a building permit, shall be occupied or used for any purpose until a certificate of occupancy has been issued, as authorized by the fire marshal (if required) and the code compliance officer.
ARTICLE 6. - ADOPTION
Be it ordained, by the mayor and council that the foregoing subdivision regulations be ordained, adopted, and enacted for the Watkinsville, Georgia, pursuant to the Home Rule of Power of Watkinsville granted under the Laws and Constitution of Georgia.
Severability. If any part of these regulations or the application of these regulations to any person or circumstances is adjudged invalid by any court of competent jurisdiction, the judgment shall be confined in its operation to the part or application directly involved in the controversy in which the judgment shall be rendered and it shall not affect or impair the validity of the remainder of these regulations or the application of them to other persons or circumstances. The city hereby declares that it would have enacted the remainder to these regulations even without any such part or application which is judged to be invalid.
Saving provision. These regulations shall not be construed as abating any action now pending under, or by virtue or, prior existing subdivision regulations, or as discontinuing, abating, modifying, or altering any penalty accruing or about to accrue, or as affecting the liability of any person, firm, or corporation, or as waiving any right of the city under any section or provision existing at the time of adoption of these regulations, or as vacating or annulling any rights obtained by any persons, firm, or corporation by lawful action of the city except as shall be expressly provided for in these regulations.
Reservations and repeals. Upon the effective date of these regulations according to law, the subdivision regulations of the city adopted February 13, 2008, and as amended, are repealed.
Amendments. For the purpose of protecting the public health, safety, and general welfare, the city may from time to time propose amendments to these regulations which shall then be approved or disapproved by the city at a public meeting following public notice. Before enacting any amendment to this ordinance, the city shall hold a public hearing within 45 days of the date of the submission of a request for an amendment. A public notice shall be given at least 15 days prior to the public hearing in the legal organ of the city.
Legal counsel approval. This document has been approved as to its legal form and sufficiency by the legal counsel of Watkinsville prior to its adoption.
___________
M. Joseph Reitman, Jr., Attorney
(Amd. of 9-21-2022 )
