DIVISION 11. - DISCIPLINARY ACTION

Sec. 2-563. - Types.
A department director or supervisor shall have the following alternatives for disciplinary action:
(1)
Verbal reprimand. A department director or supervisor may administer a verbal reprimand to correct detrimental employee behavior or poor performance, and keep a written record of reprimands, made a part of the employee's personnel file. Such should include time, date, and brief description of problem and direction given the employee. An employee may submit a written response.
(2)
Written reprimand. A department director or supervisor may submit a written reprimand to an employee that has been previously given a verbal reprimand when the verbal reprimand has not resulted in the expected improvement, or when more severe initial action is warranted. A written reprimand is accompanied with a personal counseling by the department director. Copies shall be sent to human resources. Human resources shall file a copy in the personnel file. Written reprimands must contain specific time, date, offense, place of offense, signature of the employee, and statement of expected corrective action. The employee may submit a written response and/or utilize the chain of command.
(3)
Suspension. The manager may suspend an employee with or without pay for disciplinary reasons. A written statement setting forth reasons for suspension and duration shall be furnished to the employee. Such shall not exceed 30 days in any one year. Copies shall be sent to human resources and placed in the employee's personnel file.
(4)
Demotion. The manager may demote an employee to a lower paying position if a position is available. The city attorney will be present for benefit of the city. A written statement of the reasons for such action shall be furnished to the employee. Copies shall be sent to human resources and placed in the employee's personnel file.
(5)
Dismissal. The manager may dismiss an employee per section 2-594. The employee shall attend a private conference, and be furnished notice of dismissal in writing, stating the reasons for dismissal. Copies shall be filed with human resources and placed in the employee's personnel file.
(Ord. of 3-6-2020, ch. 11(A))
Sec. 2-564. - Reasons for disciplinary action.
Each employee shall follow all policies and maintain proper conduct at all times. The appropriate disciplinary action will be determined by the city. The city does not guarantee one form of action will necessarily precede another. Among other things, the following may result in disciplinary action: violation of city policies or safety rules; failing to work in a cooperative manner; possession, use or sale of alcohol or controlled substances on work premises or during working hours or in city vehicles; unauthorized possession, use or sale of weapons, firearms or explosives on work premises; theft; dishonesty; inappropriate or violent physical contact; harassment; or retaliation in violation of the city's policies; performing outside service or use of city property, equipment or facilities in connection with outside work on city time; poor attendance or performance. Decisions will be based on assessment of all relevant factors. Below are some reasons for disciplinary action ranging from verbal warning to dismissal. The list is not limited to include all offenses, but includes many of the most commonly encountered ones:
(1)
Being convicted of:
a.
A felony; or
b.
A misdemeanor involving moral turpitude, immoral conduct, or indecency, DUI, or domestic violence;
(2)
Being absent without leave;
(3)
Excessive tardiness-including returning from breaks and/or lunch;
(4)
Abuse of leave;
(5)
Inefficiency, negligence or incompetence in performance of duties;
(6)
Insubordination;
(7)
Careless, negligent or improper use of city time, property or equipment;
(8)
Falsification of records or willfully giving false statements;
(9)
Violation of city ordinances, administrative regulations or department rules, including, without limitation, the city drug-free work place policy;
(10)
Instigation of, participation in, or leadership of strike, work stoppage, slow down, artificial restriction of productive work or otherwise interfering with other city employees;
(11)
Theft or misappropriation of property, of employees or the city;
(12)
Fighting on the job;
(13)
Carrying weapons of any kind, unless job-related and specifically required as a condition of employment, or illegal possession of weapons on city premises at any time;
(14)
Political activity in conflict with the ethics and conduct section of this policy;
(15)
Rudeness or intemperate statements to public, supervisors, officials, or employees;
(16)
Disregard of safety rules or common safety practices;
(17)
Gambling on the job;
(18)
Babysitting children while on duty;
(19)
Any violation of the code of conduct or any department's code of conduct.
(Ord. of 3-6-2020, ch. 11(B))
Sec. 2-565. - Personnel file.
Personnel files are privileged, and are only to be used for the city personnel actions. Any requests for such information will be forwarded to human resources. Employees are permitted to review their own files.
(Ord. of 3-6-2020, ch. 11(C))
Secs. 2-566—2-584. - Reserved.
