DIVISION 1. - GENERALLY

Sec. 2-300. - Title.
This article establishes human resources policies and procedures and governing the administration of said policy of the city, known and cited as the "Human Resources Policies and Procedures of Watkinsville."
(Ord. of 3-6-2020, ch. 1(A))
Sec. 2-301. - Purpose.
The purpose of this article is to establish policies and procedures for administration of human resources/personnel matters in the city.
(Ord. of 3-6-2020, ch. 1(B))
Sec. 2-302. - Enactment clause.
Per the authority conferred by state law, it is hereby ordained by the council of the city as follows: it does hereby adopt the following human resources policies and procedures.
(Ord. of 3-6-2020, ch. 1(C))
Sec. 2-303. - Message to our employees.
(a)
This is to help employees become acquainted with our city and answer questions. Employees are important. Our goal is the finest service. Employees are an important part of this process because their service directly influences our city's reputation. This contains information about employment policies and practices of the city. Read this carefully, as it is a valuable reference for understanding your job and the city.
(b)
We are committed to the best possible climate for maximum development and goal achievement for employees. We seek a spirit of teamwork. We provide a comfortable workplace, where communication is open and problems can be discussed and resolved in a respectful atmosphere. With direct communication, we can develop a mutually beneficial relationship.
(c)
These policies should be regarded as guidelines, which will require changes from time to time. The city retains the right to make decisions as needed to conduct its services in a manner beneficial to the employees and the city. This supersedes and replaces any and all prior personnel policies and procedures and any inconsistent verbal or written policy statements. Ask the clerk if you have any questions. If you do not feel comfortable speaking with the clerk, discuss your concern with the manager.
(d)
The city complies with applicable laws and this generally reflects those laws. Except for the policy of at-will employment, the city reserves the right to revise, delete and add to this at any time without further notice. All such revisions, deletions or additions must be in writing and signed by the clerk. No oral statements or representations can change this.
(e)
Nothing in this is designed to modify our employment-at-will policy. This is not intended to create contractual obligations with respect to any matters it covers. Nor is this to create a contract guaranteeing you will be employed for any specific time. Any agreement to employment for a specified time will be put in writing and signed by the clerk. Any violation may result in disciplinary action up to discharge.
(f)
If city policy or operating procedures conflict with law, the law governs. No provision applies or is enforced if it conflicts with a law or regulation. If employees have knowledge of a potential conflict, contact the clerk. Nothing in this is intended to restrict an employee's legal rights, including discussing terms and conditions of employment. We will not retaliate against anyone who reports possible violations or assists with investigations.
(g)
Our city is an at-will employer. Regardless of this, either you or the city may terminate the relationship at any time, for any reason, with or without cause or notice. Nothing, written or oral, shall limit the right to terminate employment at-will. No officer, employee or representative of the city is authorized to enter into an agreement—express or implied—with any employee for employment for a specified time unless such is in a written contract signed by the clerk.
(h)
This refers to current documents. Refer to the actual documents if you have specific questions, they are controlling. If a written contract is inconsistent with this, the contract is controlling.
(Ord. of 3-6-2020, ch. 1(D))
Secs. 2-304—2-322. - Reserved.
