Chapter 12 - CEMETERIES[1]
Footnotes:
--- (1) ---
State Law reference— Abandoned cemeteries and burial grounds, O.C.G.A. § 36-72-1 et seq.

ARTICLE I. - IN GENERAL

Sec. 12-1. - Purpose.
The provisions of this chapter concerning cemeteries located within the corporate limits of the city are established to protect the health, safety and general welfare of the citizens of the city, and to preserve the rights of owners of cemetery lots.
(Code 1982, § 24-201; Code 1994, § 12-1)
Sec. 12-2. - General regulations.
(a)
Trees and shrubs. No tree or shrub shall be planted, removed, cut down, or destroyed within the borders of any burial lot, walks, or lawn spaces, without the consent of the owners of the lots in the area.
(b)
Injury to monuments. It shall be unlawful for any person to remove, deface, or in any manner injure any monument, enclosure, mausoleum, or ornament thereof within any cemetery.
(c)
Discharging firearms. It shall be unlawful for any person to shoot any gun, pistol, or other firearm within any cemetery except at a funeral ceremony.
(d)
Depositing offensive matter. It shall be unlawful for any person to deposit on any part of any cemetery or any land adjoining it any dead carcass or any putrid or offensive matter whatever.
(e)
Disorderly conduct. It shall be unlawful for any person to conduct oneself in a boisterous or disorderly manner within the perimeter of any cemetery.
(f)
Entering cemeteries at night. It shall be unlawful for any person to enter any municipal cemetery or walk upon or across any such cemetery between sunset and sunrise, except by written consent of the owners of the applicable lots.
(g)
Advertisements. It shall be unlawful for any person to post any advertisement or sign, or to solicit any work in a cemetery.
(h)
Unauthorized interments. It shall be unlawful for any person to inter any dead body in any part of a cemetery without the express authorization of the owner of the lot involved.
(i)
Disinterment. Disinterments shall be made only when authorized by the city council and the county board of health.
(Code 1982, § 24-202; Code 1994, § 12-2)
Secs. 12-3—12-22. - Reserved.
ARTICLE II. - CEMETERY FUND

Sec. 12-23. - City trusteeship.
The city does hereby act as trustee for funds received from private citizens for the upkeep and maintenance of the cemetery commonly known as the "Watkinsville Cemetery" on Simonton Bridge Road within the city limits and any other future cemeteries as may be required and established within the corporate limits of the city.
(Code 1982, § 24-101; Code 1994, § 12-26; Ord. of 1-19-2022 )
Sec. 12-24. - Purpose and intent.
(a)
A trust fund is hereby established to receive private donations for the purpose of maintaining the Watkinsville Cemetery and to prevent the premises from becoming unsightly or neglected. The trust fund shall be maintained in a local financial institution, the corpus of which to be invested and the income of which shall be used for the maintenance, preservation and upkeep of the cemetery from time to time as deemed necessary in the sole discretion of the city council.
(b)
The trust fund shall be created, and additions made to it solely with private donations conveyed for cemetery purposes. The city may at its sole discretion use public revenues for the purposes of this article.
(Code 1982, § 24-102; Code 1994, § 12-27; Ord. of 1-19-2022 )
Sec. 12-25. - Powers and duties of trustees.
(a)
The city council may from time to time hire casual labor or someone on a regular basis to actually carry out the maintenance and repairs deemed necessary for the road into the cemetery, neglected grave sites and other areas needing care and maintenance.
(b)
The city council reserves the right to designate someone else to act as trustee or carry out the general purpose and intent of this trust, and further reserve the right to transfer any corpus created herein later to another appropriate and fitting trustee to carry out the general intent of this article.
(c)
It is not the intent of the city council to assume responsibility for any specific grave sites designated specifically by any donor. It is the intent of this trust that the funds be used for general maintenance of the cemetery as the need arises, and it is not the intent of city council to take over the full operation of the cemetery or have the fund pay for all the maintenance and care of the cemetery in view of private ownership and private maintenance of many lots in the cemetery.
(Code 1982, § 24-103; Code 1994, § 12-28)
Sec. 12-26. - Terms of trust; donations.
(a)
The cemetery trust fund established in this article shall continue so long as funds are donated and received and available for the fund, and so long as the city council and such councilmembers' successors in office agree to act as trustees. If at any time, the city council determines it to be the best interest of the city to terminate the trust, then the city council may at that time transfer the funds to another appropriate trustee to carry out the general intent of this article.
(b)
Any donations accepted by the city for the city cemetery fund shall be presumed to have been given and shall be received by the city council on the terms and conditions described in this section, and no obligation or responsibilities shall be imposed on the city council by any gift instrument or any other instrument unless the city council by appropriate written instrument or acceptance agrees to accept a different responsibility other than that described in this section.
(Code 1982, § 24-104; Code 1994, § 12-29)
