ARTICLE XI. - ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGE CATERERS

Sec. 6-701. - Definitions.
The following words, terms and phrases, when used in this chapter, shall have the meanings ascribed to them in this section, except where the context clearly indicates a different meaning:
Alcoholic beverage caterer means any person licensed for the sale of alcoholic beverages by the State and who possesses a license by a local government in the State authorizing such person to sell and dispense alcoholic beverages by the drink in connection with an authorized catered function.
Authorized catered function means an event at a location not otherwise licensed for consumption of alcoholic beverages by the drink at which alcoholic beverages are furnished, served, sold and dispensed to persons present at the event, by the drink, pursuant to a permit obtained under this section.
(Ord. No. 2020-02 , art. I(exh. A), 8-11-2020)
Sec. 6-702. - License requirements and restrictions.
An alcoholic beverage caterer, after properly obtaining a license to do so, may engage in the service and sell of malt beverages, wine or spiritous liquors by the drink at authorized catered functions as follows:
(1)
Licenses may be obtained for the purposes of selling or dispensing alcoholic beverages by the drink on premises on which authorized catered functions are to be held.
(2)
Such license may be obtained only by those persons, firms, or corporations with a valid local beverage alcohol license and a valid state retail dealer license.
(3)
Such licenses shall only authorize the alcoholic beverage caterer to sell those alcoholic beverages for which he or she is licensed.
(4)
Before a licensed alcoholic beverage caterer may sell, serve or dispense alcoholic beverages at any authorized catered function, such alcoholic beverage caterer shall obtain an event permit from the city at least ten business days prior to the event.
(5)
The application for an event permit shall include the name of the licensed alcoholic beverage caterer, the alcoholic beverage caterer's license number, and the date, address and time of the event.
(6)
No event permit fee shall be charged for the alcoholic beverage caterers licensed by the city.
(7)
For alcoholic beverage caterers licensed by jurisdictions other than the city, a permit fee of $250.00 per event shall be charged.
(8)
The event permit shall be good for the specific event at the specific address and times set forth in the application.
(9)
The event permit and a copy of the alcoholic beverage caterer's state and local licenses shall be kept in the vehicle used to transport alcoholic beverages to the event at all times during which the event permit is in effect.
(10)
Caterers licensed by the city or any other jurisdiction shall maintain records of alcoholic beverages transported for each event as may be required by state law.
(Ord. No. 2020-02 , art. I(exh. A), 8-11-2020)
Sec. 6-703. - Age restrictions.
No licensed alcoholic beverage caterer shall employ any person under 21 years of age to dispense, serve, sell or handle alcoholic beverages at authorized catered functions.
(Ord. No. 2020-02 , art. I(exh. A), 8-11-2020)
Sec. 6-704. - Excise taxes.
Excise taxes are imposed upon alcoholic beverage caterers and shall be paid as required by this chapter and Georgia law.
(Ord. No. 2020-02 , art. I(exh. A), 8-11-2020)
Sec. 6-705. - State law compliance.
The licensed alcoholic beverage caterer shall comply with all provisions set forth in this chapter and shall be subject to the restrictions found in O.C.G.A. ยง 3-11-4.
(Ord. No. 2020-02 , art. I(exh. A), 8-11-2020)
Sec. 6-706. - Investigative and administrative costs.
Each application seeking a license to sell alcoholic beverages as an alcoholic beverage caterer shall be accompanied by a certified check for the full amount of the license or registration fee, together with a separate certified check or cash in the amount of $250.00 to defray investigative and administrative costs. If the application is denied and the license refused, the deposit representing the license fee shall be refunded; but the $250.00 cost paid for investigation and administration shall be retained. However, any person applying for more than one license shall pay only one fee to defray investigative and administrative expenses, which fee shall be the largest of the investigative and administrative fees authorized under this chapter. Any applicant for a license or registration under this article who has in existence at the time of making the new application an existing license or active registration under this article shall pay no investigative and administrative costs.
(Ord. No. 2020-02 , art. I(exh. A), 8-11-2020)
Sec. 6-707. - Timing of sales or consumption.
All sales of alcoholic beverages or consumption of alcoholic beverages at authorized catered events shall comply in all respects to the time restrictions found in sections 6-84 and 6-108 herein.
(Ord. No. 2020-02 , art. I(exh. A), 8-11-2020)
