ARTICLE 10. - SUBDIVISION REGULATIONS

Sec. 10-020. - Authority.
The mayor and council of the city, pursuant to the authority conferred by the provisions of the Georgia Code, annotated, do ordain and enact into law the following articles and sections.
Sec. 10-030. - Area embraced.
The jurisdiction of this article shall be all that area within the corporate limits of the city.
Sec. 10-040. - Purpose.
The various sections of this article are adopted for the following purposes, among others:
(A)
To help conserve and protect the natural, economic, and scenic resources of the city.
(B)
To help prevent and reduce the traffic congestion and traffic hazards which result from narrow or poorly aligned streets, and which result from excessive entrance and exit points along major traffic arteries.
(C)
To help eliminate the costly maintenance problems which develop when streets and lots are laid out without proper consideration being given to the drainage characteristics of the tract of land at the time the land is being subdivided into streets and lots.
(D)
To help prevent the spread of urban blight and slums.
(E)
To help ensure that residential lots will be of such design, area, and width as will prevent health and sanitation problems from developing in those subdivisions with lots to be served by individual water supply and waste disposal systems.
(F)
To help ensure that all building lots will be accessible to firefighting equipment, and other emergency and service vehicles.
(G)
To help protect the investments of the buyers of subdivision lots.
(H)
To help promote and protect the health, safety, prosperity, and welfare of the citizens of the city, and for other purposes.
Sec. 10-050. - Minor subdivisions.
In the case of a minor subdivision which shall have lots fronting only on an existing, open, and public street and which does not require a new street and each new lot meets the minimum lot size requirements of section 3-090 for the current zoning district, the developer of such subdivision shall only be required to submit a final plat.
Sec. 10-060. - Variance.
When a peculiar shape, or the topography of a tract of land, or other unusual condition, makes it impractical for a developer to comply with the literal interpretations of the design requirements of this article, the mayor and council, following a recommendation of the planning commission may approve variances to these regulations; provided, however, that in so doing, the intents and purposes of this article are not violated. For such a variance to be considered, the applicant must follow the variance requirements in section 5-090 as well as the subdivision approval procedures.
Sec. 10-070. - Illegal land subdivision.
Unless a subdivision hereafter established shall be designed, developed, and recorded in accordance with the provisions of this article, then:
(A)
The city shall not accept the dedication of any street within such subdivision, nor shall the city improve, maintain, grade, pave, or light any street within such subdivision unless such street or streets shall have received the status of public streets prior to the adoption of the ordinance from which this article is derived.
(B)
The city shall not assume any responsibility for drainage problems within such subdivision unless city-owned and maintained drainage structures already exist in such subdivisions.
(C)
The city shall not issue a building permit within such subdivision.
(D)
No unit of local government shall be authorized to extend any publicly operated service or utility into such subdivision.
Sec. 10-080. - Design standards.
(A)
Minimum design standards and improvements. In order that various purposes of this article may be accomplished, all subdivisions hereafter established shall be developed and improved in accordance with the minimum design standards set forth in this article. Provided, those parcels recorded prior to the effective date of these regulations which abut an unopened road shall not be developed until such road or portion thereof has been opened and paved according to city specifications or as certified to be paved in accordance with subsection (E) of these regulations. Final approval shall not be given a subdivision until all appropriate design standards have been met and until all appropriate required improvements have either been installed or an appropriate bond or certified check has been posted to secure the installation of such improvements.
(B)
Benchmarks. At least two benchmarks shall be established within a subdivision. Such benchmarks shall be at opposite corners of the property being subdivided.
(C)
Monuments. The subdivider shall provide stone or concrete monuments four inches in diameter or square, 30 inches long, with a flat top, which shall be set at each street corner, and at all points of curvature in each street. The top of the monument shall contain a metal pin or be scored with an indented cross to properly identify the location. The subdivider shall also provide all interior lot corners of subdivisions with concrete monuments, iron pins, or iron pipes. Iron pipes shall be at least one-half inch in diameter and 24 inches in length.
(D)
Streets. Except as hereinafter provided, all streets established in any subdivision shall comply with the following general provisions:
(1)
Continuation of existing street pattern. The arrangement of streets in a subdivision shall provide for the alignment with, or the continuation of the appropriate projection of existing principal streets in surrounding areas.
(2)
Street jogs. Street jogs or centerline offsets in the horizontal alignment of streets across intersection of less than 150 feet shall be prohibited.
(3)
Intersections. The centerline of no more than two streets shall intersect at any one point. Streets shall be laid out so as to intersect as nearly as possible at right angles and no streets shall intersect any other street at less than 60 degrees. Curved streets shall have a minimum tangent of 100 feet at intersection.
(4)
Streets intersecting with major arterials and secondary arterials. New street entrances on roads designated or classified as arterials shall be not less than 500 feet apart. However, the mayor and council may reduce these requirements whenever they determine that such action will not be contrary to the purpose of this article.
(5)
Subdivisions on arterial streets. Where a subdivision abuts or contains an existing or proposed arterial street, the mayor and council may require marginal access streets, reverse frontage with screen planting contained in a nonaccess reservation along the rear property line, deep lots with rear service lanes, or such other treatment as may be necessary for adequate protection of residential properties and to afford separation of through and local traffic.
(6)
Minimum curb and street radius. The lot line radius at intersecting streets shall be not less than 20 feet. The centerline radius of all curvilinear streets shall be not less than 75 feet.
(7)
Permanent dead-end streets. Dead-end streets, designed to be such permanently, shall be provided at the closed end with a turnaround having an outside roadway diameter of not less than 80 feet, and a right-of-way diameter of not less than 100 feet.
(8)
Temporary dead-end streets. Temporary dead-end streets shall be provided with a temporary turnaround area which shall meet the requirements for design, maintenance, and removal as approved by the mayor and council.
(9)
Half streets. Half streets shall not be permitted within a subdivision.
(10)
Interior streets. Interior streets within subdivisions shall be so laid out and designed that their use by through traffic and speeding traffic will be discouraged.
(11)
Street names. All streets within a subdivision hereafter established shall be named. No name shall be used which will duplicate or be confused with existing street names.
(12)
Additional right-of-way. A proposed subdivision that includes a platted street that does not conform to the minimum right-of-way requirements of this article shall provide for the dedication of additional right-of-way required by ordinance. If the proposed subdivision abuts only one side of said street then a minimum of one-half of the required extra right-of-way shall be dedicated by such subdivision.
(13)
Street access to adjoining property. Whenever the mayor and council find that street access to adjoining property is needed, a street right-of-way shall be extended to the boundary of such property and such right-of-way shall be dedicated to the public as an unopened street. When such unopened street is required for access to property, then the developer of the property for which access is required shall be responsible for opening and improving the unopened street.
(14)
Street name markers. Street name markers which shall be constructed to city specifications shall be installed at all street intersections.
(15)
Major thoroughfare plan. When the major thoroughfare plan of the community shows proposed arterial streets and collector streets within a proposed subdivision, the subdivider shall design the street system within such subdivision to conform with the location and arrangement of such arterial streets and collector streets.
(16)
Sidewalks. Sidewalks may be installed on all major arterials for single-family and multi-family residential, and on major and secondary arterials for commercial.
(E)
Street design and construction specifications. Except as hereinafter provided, all streets established in any subdivision shall be designed and constructed in accordance with the following specifications:
EXPAND
List of Specifications Type of Streets
Arterial streets Collector streets Minor streets Marginal access street Private drives
(1)Minimum right-of-way 60 ft. 60 ft. 60 ft. 40 ft. 20 ft.
optional optional
[(2)Reserved]
(3)Width of shoulders (ditches) 8 ft. 8 ft. 8 ft. 8 ft. optional
(4)Back slope (curb and gutter) 8 ft. 8 ft. 8 ft. 8 ft. optional
(5a)Maximum slope of shoulders or back slope One inch for every one foot optional
(5b)Minimum slope of shoulders or back slope One-half an inch per one foot optional
(6)Pavement width 30 ft. 30 ft. 26 ft. 20 ft. optional
(7)Percent base course or subbase compaction, modified proctor** 100%* 95%* 95%* 95%* optional
(8)Type of paving Asphalt or concrete installed to city specifications. optional
(9)Distance between reverse curves 100 ft. 100 ft. 100 ft. 100 ft. optional
(10)Minimum street centerline elevation 7.5 ft. 7.5 ft. 7.5 ft. 7.5 ft. optional
  *Field density check tests shall be taken at the rate of one test per 1,500 square yards of paving.
**Proctor tests shall be made from representative soil sands taken from the area to be paved.
(11)
Drainage. Developer's engineer shall certify that the subdivision will drain adequately.
Additional right-of-way for roadside ditches may be required when needed. In addition, all subdivisions and all expansions of old subdivisions shall be provided with drainage structures sufficient to accommodate a ten-year storm with immediate runoff; with outfall drainage and structures sufficient to accommodate a 50-year storm flood.
(12)
Storm drainage structures. No storm drainage system shall be allowed to discharge on the beach.
(13)
Sidewalks. All sidewalks are to be made of Portland cement concrete and meet or exceed the following lengths:
a.
Single-family. four feet, four inches (not required on minor or private streets).
b.
Multi family. six feet, four inches.
c.
Commercial. eight feet, four inches.
Notwithstanding any other specifications for streets contained in this subsection, any minor subdivisions which propose to have a private drive shall require a private drive of at least 20 feet in width. Major subdivisions which have marginal city streets must have a minimum right-of-way of 40 feet and an 80-foot cul-de-sac shall be required except on through streets. On subdivisions of nine or more lots there shall be a minor city street required of a 60-foot right-of-way with an 80-foot cul-de-sac on non-through streets. Subdivisions may not be staggered or developed in such a way so as to avoid or reduce the requirements of this provision.
(F)
Lots. All lots which shall hereafter be established within a subdivision shall comply with the following design standards:
(1)
Street access. Each lot shall abut on a public street or a private street which shall be dedicated as a public street that conforms to the design requirements of this article. However, a single-family lot which does not abut a public street may be served by a perpetual privately maintained drive.
(2)
Lot lines. Side lot lines shall be as nearly as practical at right angles to straight street lines and radial to curved street lines.
(3)
Corner lots. Corner lots for residential use shall be provided with sufficient width and depth to permit the establishment of front yard building setback lines from both streets.
(4)
Double frontage lots. Double frontage lots shall only be permitted where it shall be found necessary to separate a development from major arterials or to overcome specific disadvantages of topography and orientation.
(5)
Residential lots in floodplain. Residential subdivision lots shall be prohibited within floodplain areas where the cost of providing governmental services in the area would pose an unreasonable economic burden.
(6)
Width and area requirements. Lots hereafter established within subdivisions shall conform to the lot area as set forth in the general provisions for each zoning district and the lot width shall be a minimum of 60 feet at the building line.
(G)
Blocks. All blocks hereafter established within a subdivision shall conform to the following design standards. In order that there may be convenient access between various parts of a subdivision and between the subdivision and surrounding areas and in order to help prevent traffic congestion and traffic hazards, the length of blocks hereafter established shall not exceed 1,800 feet.
(H)
Easement. The following kinds of easements shall be required within subdivisions:
(1)
Utility easements. Public utility easements shall be provided where necessary. Such easements shall be not less than 15 feet in width and shall be centered on side or rear property lines when possible. The location, elevation and construction of all public utilities and facilities, such as sewer, gas, electrical and water systems and streets, shall be in such a manner as to minimize or eliminate damage by flooding.
(2)
Drainage. Where a subdivision is traversed by a watercourse, drainageway, channel, or stream, there shall be provided a stormwater easement or drainage right-of-way which shall conform substantially with the lines of such watercourse, drainageway, channel, or stream or shall be of such additional width or construction, or both, as will be adequate for the purpose.
(3)
Maintenance easement. Where a drainage canal is such size that it requires mechanical means for cleaning, such as a dragline, there shall be a 12-foot access easement on either side of such canal for access purposes.
(I)
Water supply and sanitary sewage. Water and sewage facilities shall conform to the following requirements:
(1)
Public water and public sewer. When feasible every portion of a subdivision shall be served by public water; when feasible, as determined by the mayor and council, every portion of a subdivision shall be served by a sanitary sewer system. All such systems shall be designed to preclude infiltration of floodwater into the system and discharges from the system into floodwater.
(2)
Private water and private sewerage. Where either public water or public sewers or both are not available to a subdivision as determined by the mayor and council and a subdivider shall decide to establish a private water supply system and a private sewer system, then the plans and specifications for such private water system and sewer shall be so located as to avoid impairment of them, or contamination from them, during times of flooding.
(3)
Publicly owned water and sewer systems. Water and sewer systems must be constructed in accordance with Chatham County Health Department specifications; sewer systems must connect to an existing publicly owned treatment plant, where practical, and both water and sewer systems and trunk lines shall be conveyed to the city.
(J)
Preservation of noteworthy features.
(1)
In all subdivisions, to the maximum degree reasonably practicable, efforts shall be made to preserve historic sites, scenic points, large trees and other desirable natural growths, watercourses and other water areas, and other features worthy of preservation, either as portions of public sites and open spaces, or in such other forms as to provide amenity to the neighborhood.
(2)
Large trees or other desirable natural growths located in public or private street rights-of-way or public or private easements shall not be removed unless such removal is necessary for the installation of utilities or drainage structures or for other purposes in the public interest and approved by the mayor and council.
(3)
Such removal may be prohibited if the amenity of adjacent property or the amenity of the general neighborhood is adversely affected.
(Ord. No. 2004-22, amended 3-7-2005; Ord. No. 2005-16, ยง 1, 5-26-2005)
