ARTICLE 1. - INTRODUCTION

Sec. 1-009. - Editor's note.
All tables that are referenced in this Land Development Code will not be found in this Code they can be found in the most recent version of the Land Development Code on file in the city clerks' office.
Sec. 1-010. - Enactment.
In accordance with the authority granted by the Constitution of the State of Georgia as enacted by the state general assembly and ratified by general election, the city council of Tybee Island, Georgia, ordain and enact into law the City of Tybee Island Land Development Code. As part of this Land Development Code so enacted into law is "The Official Zoning Map of Tybee Island, Georgia." All other city codes and ordinances in conflict with this Land Development Code are repealed.
Sec. 1-020. - Map.
The map herein referred to, which is identified by the title, "Zoning Map of the City of Tybee Island, Georgia," is on file in the clerk's office.
Sec. 1-030. - Purpose.
The land development regulations and zoning districts as herein set forth have been made for the purpose of promoting the public health, safety, morals, general welfare, convenience and prosperity of the citizens of the city. The regulations and arrangements of districts have been designed to lessen congestion in the streets, to secure safety from fire, to provide adequate light and air, to prevent the overcrowding of land, to avoid undue concentration of population, to facilitate the adequate provision of water, sewer, schools, parks and other public requirements and to encourage the most appropriate use of land throughout the city.
Sec. 1-040. - Scope.
This Land Development Code:
(A)
Regulates the location, height, bulk, number of stories and size of buildings and other structures; the percentage of lot which may be occupied; the sizes of yards and other open spaces; the density and distribution of population;
(B)
The uses of buildings; structures and lands for trade, industry, residence, recreation, conservation, water supply, sanitation, public safety, public activities;
(C)
The preservation of scenic areas, protection against floods, rising waters and erosion, and other purposes;
(D)
Creates districts for said purposes and establishes the boundaries thereof;
(E)
Defines certain terms used herein;
(F)
Provides for the method of administration, appeal and amendment, enforcement, duties and the provision of penalties for violation.
Sec. 1-050. - Severability and conflict.
If any section, subsection, clause, provision of these regulations shall be held to be invalid or unconstitutional by any court of competent jurisdiction, such holding shall not affect any other section, subsection, clause, provision or portion of these regulations which is not invalid or unconstitutional. Where the provisions of this Land Development Code are in conflict with each other or with other ordinances, the most restrictive provisions shall be enforced.
(Ord. No. 2000-06, 2-11-2000; Ord. No. 2000-06, amended 5-24-2000)
