Chapter 1 - GENERAL PROVISIONS

Sec. 1-1. - How Code designated and cited.
The ordinances embraced in the following chapters and sections and Appendix A shall constitute and be designated "The Code of Tybee Island, Georgia," and may be so cited, and may also be cited as "The Code of the City of Tybee Island, Georgia."
(Code 1970, § 1-1; Code 1983, § 1-1-1)
Sec. 1-2. - Definitions and rules of construction.
In the construction of this Code, and of all ordinances, the following definitions and rules shall be observed, unless such construction would be inconsistent with the manifest intent of the governing body:
Generally. Ordinary meanings shall be applied to all words, except words of art, or words connected with a particular trade or subject matter, in which case words shall have the significance attached to them by experts in such trade or with reference to such subject matter. The definitions of terms found in generally accepted dictionaries are prima facie evidence of meaning. In making interpretations of ordinances, the courts shall look diligently for the intent of the city council, as gleaned from the minutes of meetings reflecting the approval of motions by the city council, recitals found in ordinances and statements of policy and intent adopted by the council. Grammatical errors shall not vitiate, and transposition of words and clauses may be resorted to when the sentence or clause is without meaning as it stands.
Adequate. The term "adequate" means equal to what is required, suitable to the case or occasion, fully sufficient, proportionate, satisfactory.
All. The term "all" means everyone, or the whole number of particulars.
Also. The term "also" means "in like manner," "likewise," "in addition," "besides," "as well," "further," "too."
As soon as possible. The term "as soon as possible" means within a reasonable time, having due regard to all the circumstances.
At. The term "at" means "in," "near," "within," or "about." Its primary idea is nearness, and it is less definite than "in" or "on."
Captions, maps, etc. In case of any difference of meaning or implication between the text of this Code and any caption, illustration, map, chart, summary table, or illustrative table, the text shall control.
City. The term "city" means the City of Tybee Island, Georgia.
Code. The term "Code" means "The Code of Tybee Island, Georgia," as designated in section 1-1.
Computation of time. When a period of time measured in days, weeks, months, years, or other measurements of time except hours is prescribed for the exercise of any privilege or the discharge of any duty, the first day shall not be counted but the last day shall be counted; and, if the last day falls on Saturday or Sunday, the party having such privilege or duty shall have through the following Monday to exercise the privilege or to discharge the duty. When the last day prescribed for such action falls on a public and legal holiday as set forth in O.C.G.A. § 1-4-1, the party having the privilege or duty shall have through the next business day to exercise the privilege or to discharge the duty. When the period of time prescribed is less than seven days, intermediate Saturdays, Sundays, and legal holidays shall be excluded in the computation.
Conjunctions. Unless the context clearly indicates the contrary, where a regulation involves two or more items, conditions, provisions, or events connected by the conjunction "and," "or," or "either . . . or," the conjunction shall be interpreted as follows:
(1)
The term "and" indicates that all the connected items, conditions, provisions or events shall apply.
(2)
The term "or" indicates that the connected items, conditions, provisions or events may apply singularly or in any combination.
(3)
The term "either . . . or" indicates that the connected items, conditions, provisions or events shall apply singularly but not in combination.
Council, city council, governing body, governing authority. The terms "council, " "city council," "governing body" and "governing authority" mean the city council of the City of Tybee Island, Georgia.
County. The term "county" means the County of Chatham, Georgia.
Delegation of authority. Unless restricted by state law, whenever a provision appears requiring a city officer or city employee to do some act, it is to be construed to authorize the officer or employee to designate, delegate and authorize subordinates to perform the required act.
Department. The term "department" means an administrative department of city government. When appropriate, the term "department" means the director of the department or the director's designee. A department is not a legal entity capable of suit.
Educational facility means a structure providing schooling, instruction and training such as a charter or other school which issues degrees or completion certificates. The facility must be solely used for educational or related purposes on a permanent basis.
Following. The term "following" means next after.
Gender. A word importing the masculine gender only shall extend and be applied to females and to firms, partnerships and corporations as well as to males.
Includes and including. The terms "includes" and "including" shall not be construed to limit a term to the specified examples, but is intended to extend the meaning of a term to all instances or circumstances of like kind or character.
Joint authority. A joint authority given to any number of persons, or officers, may be executed by a majority of them.
Keeper andproprietor. The terms "keeper" and "proprietor" mean and include persons, whether acting by themselves or as a servant, agent, or employee.
Liberal construction; minimum requirements; overlapping provisions. All general provisions, terms, phrases and expressions contained in this Code shall be liberally construed in order that the true intent and meaning of the city council may be fully carried out. In the interpretation and application of any provision of this Code, such provisions shall be held to be the minimum requirements adopted for the promotion of the public health, safety, comfort, convenience and general welfare. Where any provision of this Code imposes greater restrictions upon the subject matter than the other provisions of this Code, the provision imposing the greater restriction or regulation shall be deemed to be controlling.
Manager. The term "manager" means the city manager of an administrative department of city government or designee. The term is synonymous with department head and appointing authority.
May. The term "may" is to be construed as being permissive.
Month. The term "month" means a calendar month.
Must. The term "must" is to be construed as being mandatory.
Number. Words used in the singular include the plural, and the plural includes the singular number.
Oath. The term "oath" means and includes an affirmation in all cases in which, by law, an affirmation may be substituted for an oath, and in such cases the terms "swear" and "sworn" shall be equivalent to the terms "affirm" and "affirmed."
O.C.G.A. The abbreviation "O.C.G.A." means the Official Code of Georgia Annotated, as amended.
Or, and. The term "or" may be read as the term "and," and the term "and" may be read as the term "or," if the sense requires it.
Ordinance. The term "ordinance" means any legislation enacted by the city council that is capable of enforcement through the imposition of fines or penalties.
Other officials, officers, etc. Whenever reference is made to officials, boards, commissions, departments, etc., by title only, i.e., clerk of council, chief of police, etc., they shall be deemed to refer to the officials, boards, commissions and departments of the City of Tybee Island, Georgia.
Owner. The term "owner," as applied to a building or land, means and includes any part owner, joint owner, tenant in common, tenant in partnership, or joint tenant of the whole or of a part of the building or land.
Peace officer. The term "peace officer" shall include police officers, peace officers as defined by state law and to the extent appropriate code enforcement officers and personnel to include the city marshal.
Person. The term "person" means and applies to firms, partnerships, associations, organizations and bodies politic and corporate, or any combination thereof, as well as to individuals.
Personal property. The term "personal property" means and includes every species of property except real property, as defined in this section.
Preceding. The term "preceding" means next before.
Property. The term "property" means and includes real and personal property.
Public place. The term "public place" means and includes any place that the public is invited or permitted to go or congregate.
Real property. The term "real property" means and includes lands, tenements, marital interests and hereditaments.
Resolution. The term "resolution" means a policy statement or directive or course of action adopted by the city council at a regularly called meeting.
Shall. The term "shall" is to be construed as being mandatory.
Sidewalk. The term "sidewalk" means any portion of a street between the curbline and the adjacent property line, intended for the use of pedestrians, excluding parkways.
Signature and subscription. The terms "signature" and "subscription" mean and include a mark when the person cannot write.
State. The term "state" means the State of Georgia.
Street. The term "street" means and includes streets, avenues, boulevards, roads, alleys, lanes, viaducts and all other public streets and ways in the city and shall embrace all parts thereof constituting the designated right-of-way, unless otherwise stated.
Tenant and occupant. The terms "tenant" and "occupant," as applied to a building or land, mean and include any person holding a written or oral lease of, or who occupies, the whole or a part of a building or land, either alone or with others.
Tense. Words used in the past or present tense include the future as well as the past and present.
Until a certain day. The term "until a certain day" means and includes all of such day.
Week. The term "week" means seven days.
Will. The term "will" is to be construed as being mandatory.
Writing. The term "writing" means and includes printing and all numerals.
Year. The term "year" means a calendar year.
(Code 1970, § 1-2; Code 1983, § 1-1-2; Ord. No. 23-A-2015 , § 1, 9-10-2015; Ord. No. 2021-09 , § I(Att.), 4-8-2021)
State Law reference— Statutory definitions and rules of construction generally, O.C.G.A. § 1-3-1 et seq.
Sec. 1-3. - Catchlines of sections, effect of history notes, and references in Code.
(a)
The catchlines of sections of this Code printed in boldface type, italics or otherwise, are intended as mere catchwords to indicate the contents of the section, and shall not be deemed or taken to be titles of such sections, nor as any part of the section, nor, unless expressly so provided, shall they be so deemed when any of such sections, including the catchlines, are amended or reenacted.
(b)
The history or source notes appearing in parentheses after sections in this Code are not intended to have any legal effect but are merely intended to indicate the source of matter contained in the section. State law references which appear after sections or subsections of this Code or which otherwise appear in footnote form are provided for the convenience of the user of this Code and have no legal effect.
(c)
All references to chapters, articles, or sections are to the chapters, articles, and sections of this Code unless otherwise specified.
(Code 1983, § 1-1-3)
Sec. 1-4. - Effect of repeal of ordinances.
(a)
The repeal of an ordinance shall not revive any ordinances in force before or at the time the ordinance repealed took effect.
(b)
The repeal of an ordinance shall not affect any punishment or penalty incurred before the repeal took effect, nor any suit, prosecution or proceeding pending at the time of the repeal for an offense committed under the ordinance repealed.
(Code 1983, § 1-1-4)
Sec. 1-5. - Severability of parts of Code.
It is declared to be the intention of the governing body that the sections, paragraphs, sentences, clauses and phrases of this Code are severable, and if any phrase, clause, sentence, paragraph or section of this Code shall be declared unconstitutional by the valid judgment or decree of a court of competent jurisdiction, that unconstitutionality shall not affect any of the remaining phrases, clauses, sentences, paragraphs and sections of this Code.
(Code 1983, § 1-1-5)
Sec. 1-6. - Ordinances and amendments to Code.
All ordinances and amendments to the Code shall be introduced as provided in the Charter (section 2.22).
(Code 1983, § 1-1-6)
Sec. 1-7. - Altering Code.
It shall be unlawful for any person in the city to change or amend by additions or deletions, any part or portion of this Code, or to insert or delete pages or portions thereof, or to alter or tamper with such Code in any manner whatsoever which will cause the law of the city, to be misrepresented thereby. Any person violating this section shall be punished as provided in section 1-8 hereof.
(Code 1983, § 1-1-7)
Sec. 1-8. - General penalty.
Whenever in this Code or in any ordinance of the city any act is prohibited or is made or declared to be unlawful or an offense, or whenever in this Code or any ordinance the doing of any act is required or the failure to do any act is declared to be unlawful, where no specific penalty is provided therefor, such violation of any such provision of this Code or any ordinance shall be punishable by a fine not exceeding $1,000.00, by sentence of imprisonment not exceeding six months and to work on the streets or public works for a period not exceeding 60 days, any or all such penalties in the discretion of the judge.
(Code 1983, § 1-1-8)
Sec. 1-9. - Exceptions.
In the event of exceptional circumstances or unusual occurrences, monetary penalties less than $15.00 and/or other enforcement provisions may be waived or delayed, in whole or in part, by the city manager; such as in cases when residents are delinquent in meeting a deadline as a result of personal or family illness or death, minor arithmetic errors, unusual postal delays, or unexpected documented hardship.
(Code 1983, § 1-1-9)
Sec. 1-10. - Territorial applicability.
Except as specifically provided otherwise, this Code only applies in the city limits.
Sec. 1-11. - Supplementation of Code.
(a)
Supplements to this Code shall be prepared and printed whenever authorized or directed by the mayor and council. A supplement to the Code shall include all substantive permanent and general parts of ordinances adopted during the period covered by the supplement and all changes made thereby in the Code. The pages of a supplement shall be so numbered that they will fit properly into the Code and will, where necessary, replace pages which have become obsolete or partially obsolete, and the new pages shall be so prepared that, when they have been inserted, the Code will be current through the date of the adoption of the latest ordinance included in the supplement.
(b)
In preparing a supplement to this Code, all portions of the Code which have been repealed shall be excluded from the Code by the omission thereof from reprinted pages.
(c)
When preparing a supplement to this Code, the person authorized to prepare the supplement may make formal, nonsubstantive changes in ordinances and parts of ordinances included in the supplemental, insofar as it is necessary to do so to embody them into a unified code. For example, the person may:
(1)
Organize the ordinance material into appropriate subdivisions;
(2)
Provide appropriate catchlines, headings, and titles for sections and other subdivisions of the Code printed in the supplement, and make changes in such catchlines, headings, and titles;
(3)
Assign appropriate numbers to sections and other subdivisions to be inserted in the Code and, where necessary to accommodate new material, change existing section or other subdivision numbers;
(4)
Change the words "this ordinance" or words of the same meaning to "this chapter," "this article," "this division," etc., as the case may be, or to "sections ___ to ___" (inserting section numbers to indicate the sections of the Code which embody the substantive sections of the ordinance incorporated into the Code); and
(5)
Make other nonsubstantive changes necessary to preserve the original meaning of ordinance sections inserted into the Code.
(d)
In no case shall the person make any change in the meaning or effect of ordinance material included in the supplement or already embodied in the Code.
Sec. 1-12. - Provisions considered as continuations of existing legislation.
The provisions appearing in this Code, so far as they are the same as those of legislation existing as of the effective date of this Code, shall be considered as continuations thereof and not as new enactments.
Sec. 1-13. - Matters not affected by Code.
Nothing in this Code or the ordinance adopting this Code shall affect:
(1)
Any ordinance promising or guaranteeing the payment of money for the city, or authorizing the issuance of any bonds for the city, or any evidence of the city's indebtedness, or any contract or obligation assumed by the city.
(2)
Any existing right or franchise granted by the county or city to any person.
(3)
Any ordinance dedicating, naming, defining, establishing, locating, relocating, opening, paving, widening, vacating, etc., any street or public way in the city.
(4)
Any appropriation or ordinance authorizing appropriations.
(5)
Any ordinance providing for local improvements or assessing taxes therefor.
(6)
Any ordinance dedicating or accepting a plat or subdivision or regulating plats or subdivisions.
(7)
Any rezoning ordinance.
(8)
Any ordinance establishing salaries or compensation of city officers or employees not in this Code.
(9)
Any ordinance approving the budget.
(10)
Any ordinance adopted for purposes that have been consummated.
(11)
Any ordinance that is temporary, although general in nature.
(12)
Any ordinance that is special, although permanent in nature.
(13)
Any ordinance levying or otherwise relating to taxes.
(14)
Any act or ordinance amending any act enacted by the general assembly of the state.
Sec. 1-14. - Code does not affect prior offenses, rights, etc.
(a)
Nothing in this Code or the ordinance adopting this Code shall affect any offense or act committed or done, or any penalty or forfeiture incurred, or any contract or right established or accruing before the effective date of this Code.
(b)
The adoption of this Code shall not be interpreted as authorizing or permitting any use or the continuance of any use of a structure or premises in violation of any ordinance in effect on the date of adoption of this Code.
