Chapter 26 - SOLID WASTE[1]

Sec. 26-1. - Definitions.
The following words, terms and phrases, when used in this chapter, shall have the meanings ascribed to them in this section, except where the context clearly indicates a different meaning:
Ashes means the residue from the burning of wood, coal, coke or other combustible materials.
Building material means any material defined as, but not limited to, lumber, brick, block, stone, carpet, plumbing materials, plaster, concrete, roofing, floor tile, gutters or other substances accumulated as a result of the construction of or repairs or additions to structures or accessory structures or the demolition of such.
Business trash means any accumulation of paper, cardboard, packaging materials, rags, or accumulations other than garbage or household trash, which result from the operation of stores, offices, and similar business or commercial enterprises.
City public works director means the city public works director or his duly authorized representative.
Commercial establishment means any hotel, motel, restaurant, business, public or semipublic establishment of any kind, and any master-billed apartment. An operation conducted from a residence requiring a business license is a commercial establishment for purposes of this chapter.
Container means a refuse receptacle.
County administrator means the county administrator or his duly authorized representative.
Disposal site means an area, location, tract of land or facility used or intended to be used for the disposal of solid waste, putrescible waste, or other waste.
Garbage means the byproduct resulting from the growing, harvesting, processing, handling, preparation, cooking, or consumption of animal or vegetable food, or other matter which is subject to decomposition, decay, putrefaction for the generation of noxious or offensive gases or odors, or which during or after decay may serve as breeding areas or feeding material for flies, insects, or animals.
Hazardous refuse means materials which constitute a hazard to health or safety, such as poison, acids, caustic matter or solutions, chemicals, infected materials, offal, fecal matter, explosives, radioactive materials, and highly flammable substances.
Household trash means waste accumulation usually attendant upon housekeeping, such as paper, sweepings, dust, rags, bottles, cans or other matter of any kind, other than garbage.
Industrial establishment means any establishment involved in the manufacture or assembly of a product or any part thereof.
Industrial waste means all waste, including solids, semisolids, sludges and liquids, created by or resulting from the operation of factories, processing plants or other manufacturing enterprises.
Litter means all discarded manmade materials, including, but not limited to, garbage, household trash, industrial waste, building materials, appliances, or portions thereof, refuse, waste materials, sand, gravel, slag, brickbats, rubbish, tin cans, trash, debris, dead animals or any other discarded, used or unconsumed substance which is not handled in accordance with the provisions of this chapter.
Loading and unloading area means a space or area used by any moving vehicle for the purpose of receiving, shipping and transporting goods, wares, commodities and persons.
Master-billed apartments means those complexes where the solid waste billing is paid by the owner of the complex.
Multiple-family (multifamily) dwelling means a building designed for or occupied by two or more families, such as apartments, duplexes and triplexes.
Refuse means solid waste accumulations consisting of any combination of ashes, building material, garbage, hazardous refuse, household trash, and other waste or discarded materials of all kinds.
Refuse receptacle means a container approved by the county administrator as acceptable for the temporary reception and storage of refuse pending transportation to a permanent disposal site. The term "refuse receptacle" shall include plastic bags where approved by the county administrator.
Scavenge and scavenging mean the unauthorized and uncontrolled retrieval of discarded refuse materials.
Tree, shrubbery and lawn trimmings means waste accumulation of tree branches, tree limbs, parts of trees, bushes, shrubbery cuttings or clippings, grass clippings or other natural waste.
(Code 2003, § 42-1; Ord. of 3-29-1994, § I; Ord. of 11-4-2008(2), § 1)
Sec. 26-2. - Enforcement.
(a)
Generally. It is the principal objective of this chapter to attain a clean and litter-free community and encourage recycling of selected material through education and voluntary compliance. Enforcement procedures shall be utilized only where other means fail.
(b)
Solid waste management plans. A solid waste management plan must be submitted with every application for a building permit. The inspection department shall obtain the approval of the county administrator of such solid waste management plan.
(c)
Monitoring by employees. Solid waste collection employees, inspection department employees and other city employees shall be alert to observe violations of the provisions of this chapter, including, but without limitations, loose trash and garbage, waste, litter, containers not in compliance, or any other thing or matter which may be in violation of this chapter or the rules and regulations of the city public works director on behalf of city employees or the rules and regulations of the county administrator on behalf of any inspection department employees. An employee observing such violation shall report such violations to his supervisor, who in turn shall cause the information to be conveyed to the city public works director for required action.
(d)
Penalty for violation. The violation of any provision of this chapter, or of the rules and regulations of the city public works director promulgated under this chapter, or the failure to do any act or meet any standard required by this chapter, or the failure to comply in any way with any requirement of this chapter or such rules and regulations, shall constitute an offense triable in the municipal court, and punishable as provided in section 1-13.
(e)
Prima facie case. Whenever litter is thrown, deposited, dropped, or dumped from any motor vehicle, boat, airplane, wagon, wheelbarrow, or other conveyance in violation of this chapter or the rules and regulations promulgated by the city public works director under this chapter, it shall be prima facie evidence that the operator of the conveyance has violated this chapter.
(f)
Presumption. Whenever any litter which is dumped, deposited, thrown, or left on public or private property in violation of this chapter or of the rules and regulations promulgated by the county administrator under this chapter is discovered to contain any article, including, but not limited to, letters, bills, publications, or other writings which display the name of a person thereon in such manner as to indicate that the article belongs or belonged to such person, it shall be a rebuttable presumption that such person has violated this chapter.
(g)
Specific penalties cumulative. Where any section of this chapter contains specific remedies or punishments, such specific remedies or punishments shall not be exclusive, but shall be in addition to all other remedies and punishments provided in this section or otherwise provided by law for the violation of or noncompliance with this chapter or the rules and regulations of the city public works director.
(h)
Additional penalties. In addition to all punishments and penalties provided anywhere in this chapter, otherwise by law, the municipal court may impose the following additional or alternative sentences, either as a direct sentence, or as a condition to probation:
(1)
The court may direct the convicted person to pick up and remove from any public street, highway or public right-of-way any and all litter deposited thereon by anyone else prior to the date of the execution of the sentence; or
(2)
The court may direct the convicted person to pick up and remove from any public beach, public park, private right-of-way, or, with the prior permission of the legal owner or tenant in lawful possession of such property, any private property upon which it can be established by competent evidence that the person has deposited litter, any and all litter deposited thereon by anyone prior to the date of the execution of the sentence.
(i)
Action in emergencies. Nothing contained in this section or elsewhere in this chapter shall require intermediate measures where the violation is of such nature or degree as to constitute an immediate, clear and present danger to the health and safety of the public. The failure to take the steps provided in this section shall not constitute a defense to any proceeding to enforce the provisions of this chapter.
(Code 2003, § 42-2; Ord. of 3-29-1994, § VIII; Ord. of 11-4-2008(2), §§ 2, 3)
Sec. 26-3. - Authority of city public works director and/or county administrator.
The city public works director and/or the county administrator, through an intergovernmental agreement for code enforcement purposes, shall have charge of the administration of this chapter insofar as it relates to code enforcement duties and/or permitting issues that are handled under by both the City of Leesburg and Lee County intergovernmental agreement for such services. The county administrator and/or the city public works director are authorized, with the approval of the city council, to adopt and promulgate rules and relations concerning such waste collection conveyance and disposal and respecting the size, type, specifications, number and allocations of all containers and fees charged for such collections. Such rules and regulations shall have the force of law but shall not be contrary to anything in this chapter, but shall be considered supplemental thereto.
(Code 2003, § 42-3; Ord. of 3-29-1994, § II(1); Ord. of 11-4-2008(2), § 4)
Sec. 26-4. - Residential and commercial service.
All residential and commercial units in the incorporated portions of the city are required to utilize the solid waste collection service of the city for disposition of refuse. Garbage and household trash shall be collected once per week. Disposal of all other refuse shall be the responsibility of the residential or commercial unit producing the refuse. Each residential unit shall pay the sum as set forth in the schedule of fees and charges, on file in the office of the city clerk, for collection of household garbage and household trash by the city or its designee. Each commercial unit shall pay for collection of solid waste in accordance with the schedule of fees and charges, on file in the office of the city clerk. Additionally, the city clerk shall maintain a record of any other fees for disposal of other items not specifically listed in this section as the city council may deem necessary and as may be amended by the city council from time to time to reflect the current cost of the city for disposal of additional items. Such items shall include household furniture and furnishings and appliances as defined in section 26-6(10) and (11), respectively.
(Code 2003, § 42-4; Ord. of 3-29-1994, § II(2); Ord. of 11-4-2008(2), § 5)
Sec. 26-5. - Receptacles and containers.
(a)
Required. Every person in possession, charge or control of any building or premises upon which refuse is accumulated or produced shall be required by this chapter to provide and keep in a suitable place readily accessible to the solid waste collection crews of the county, or its designee, as the case may be, receptacles and containers approved by the county administrator as suitable for the storage of all such refuse which will normally accumulate between the established collection dates. The county administrator shall determine the type, size, specifications, number and location of receptacles and shall determine whether such receptacles and containers are in a serviceable condition.
(b)
To be safe. All receptacles and containers shall be maintained in good serviceable condition at all times. Any receptacle or container which does not conform to the requirements of this chapter or to the rules and regulations of the county administrator, or which has ragged or sharp edges or other defects likely to hamper or injure the person collecting the contents therefrom or the public generally, shall be replaced promptly by the user thereof. If any such container, after request, has not been replaced, the county shall have the right to suspend further collection of refuse from such container until such time as the container is brought into compliance with this chapter.
(Code 2003, § 42-5; Ord. of 3-29-1994, § II(3), (4))
Sec. 26-6. - Precollection practices.
The following practices and procedures shall be followed by persons in the unincorporated areas of the county in order to facilitate the collection of solid waste:
(1)
Refuse. All refuse shall be placed and maintained in containers satisfying the requirements of this chapter and of the rules and regulations of the county administrator. Containers shall be maintained at all times with tightfitting lids or covers, and secured in such manner as to prevent the overturning by the elements or by dogs or other animals. Building materials, or any other refuse, garbage or trash items which may accumulate during the construction of any development, shall be adequately containerized in a trash bin, drop-off trailer, or similar container. It shall be a violation of this chapter for any developer, contractor, or landowner to allow building materials to accumulate other than in a container from which such items cannot escape, except by human force, and from which such items may be easily gathered for disposal. Violation of this provision shall be punishable as a misdemeanor and the building inspector shall be authorized to revoke the building permit of any person in violation until such violation is corrected.
(2)
Garbage. Garbage placed in containers for collection shall be enclosed in paper or plastic bags. Household trash shall be drained of all liquids prior to its being placed in refuse receptacles. Household trash shall be combined with garbage.
(3)
Injurious trash items. Waste material with potential for inflicting injury, such as broken glass, light bulbs, sharp pieces of metal, fluorescent tubes, and television tubes, shall be securely packaged or wrapped in such a manner as will prevent injury to the collection crews or other persons. The provisions of this subsection shall not apply to material placed in mechanically handled containers.
(4)
Hazardous refuse. Hazardous refuse will not be collected by the county. No person shall place any items of hazardous refuse in any refuse receptacle or other container for collection by the county. Federal and state hazardous waste laws shall be observed by all persons, and any violations will be reported to the applicable state or federal authorities.
(5)
Building materials. Building materials will not be collected by the county. The owner of the premises or the contractor, builder or person doing the repairs, remodeling construction or demolition shall be required to haul away and legally dispose of all such debris.
(6)
Tree and vegetation removal by home occupants. Trees cut by the owner or occupant shall be promptly taken by such owner or occupant to an approved landfill. When a tree is cut from private property by anyone other than the owner, such party shall remove and legally dispose of all wood and limbs. The owner, tenant, or other persons in possession of the property shall be responsible to see that such tree trimmer or other person outlined in this subsection complies with this provision.
(7)
Grass clippings, leaves, pine straw, pine cones. Grass clippings, leaves, pine straw and/or pine cones shall be delivered to an approved landfill by the residential or commercial unit producing such solid waste.
(8)
Ashes. It shall be unlawful to deposit hot ashes in garbage containers. Ashes or clinkers shall not be placed or deposited upon streets, sidewalks or sideparks.
(9)
Pet litter. Pet litter must be placed in securely tied plastic bags not to exceed ten pounds in weight and placed in the container.
(10)
Household furniture and furnishings. Household furniture and furnishings shall be delivered to an approved landfill by the residential or commercial unit generating such solid waste.
(11)
Appliances. Appliances shall be delivered to an approved landfill by the residential or commercial unit generating such solid waste.
(12)
Disposable diapers. Disposable diapers must be placed and tied securely in plastic bags and placed in a regular container.
(Code 2003, § 42-6; Ord. of 3-29-1994, § III; Ord. of 2-23-1995)
Sec. 26-7. - Collection practices.
(a)
Residential. Garbage and household trash accumulated by residents shall be stored in refuse receptacles complying with the requirements of the county administrator as to size, shape and materials, and shall be placed at such locations convenient for servicing by the county as shall be designated by the county administrator for weekly pickup. Service for disabled citizens will be handled on a case-by-case basis once disability is certified by a licensed physician and the certification is submitted to the county for approval.
(b)
Commercial. Refuse accumulated by commercial establishments shall be stored in containers meeting the requirements of the county administrator as to size, shape and materials, and such receptacles compatible with the collection equipment and methods of the county.
(c)
Issuance of permits. The building inspector of the county shall not issue a building permit for industrial, commercial or multifamily dwellings until the county administrator gives his approval to proposed plans for the storage and collection of solid waste.
(d)
Location of containers. The county will not collect solid waste from industrial, commercial, or multifamily dwellings unless the solid waste is placed in approved containers and located at a place approved by the county administrator.
(e)
Multifamily units. All multifamily units of 50 units or more serviced by the county shall be containerized with plastic or metal containers furnished by the county. Multifamily units of less than 50 units serviced by the county may be containerized with plastic or metal containers furnished by the county as determined by the county administrator in accordance with section 26-5(a).
(f)
Containerizing trash. All commercial and industrial users shall containerize all solid waste generated by the establishment including outside as well as inside debris from the premises.
(Code 2003, § 42-7; Ord. of 3-29-1994, § IV)
Sec. 26-8. - Wheeled garbage containers.
(a)
Inspections. Where a wheeled garbage container is furnished by the county, it shall be normally the only container authorized for garbage collection and shall be subject to inspection by the county. Should additional containers be needed, they may be obtained for a fee by contacting the county administrator.
(b)
Placing for collection. The owner, occupant, tenant or other person occupying any building, house or structure within the unincorporated areas of the county as a residence or business using a wheeled garbage container shall have such container at the curb or designated location not earlier than 7:00 a.m. on the day before and not later than 7:00 a.m. on the designated garbage pickup days.
(c)
Removal after collection. The owner, occupant, tenant or other person occupying any building, house or structure within the unincorporated areas of the county as a residence or business using a wheeled garbage container for curbside service shall return such container to the site or rear of the building no later than 24 hours after collection. Where the collection point is located more than 100 yards from a home, the container may be stored at another location approved by the county administrator.
(d)
Vacating dwelling. Wheeled garbage containers furnished by the county shall not be removed from the premises to which they are delivered.
(e)
Loss or damage to container. If the wheeled container furnished by the county is damaged, lost or destroyed through negligence of the person to whom the container was assigned, the person shall reimburse the county for the cost of a replacement container.
(Code 2003, § 42-8; Ord. of 3-29-1994, § V)
Sec. 26-9. - Commercial establishments.
(a)
Generally. Commercial establishments shall store refuse in containers meeting the requirements of this chapter and of the rules and regulations promulgated by the county administrator so as to eliminate wind-driven debris and unsightly litter in and about the establishment. Any spillage or overflow shall be cleaned up immediately by such establishment.
(b)
Loading and unloading areas. All loading and unloading areas shall be provided with refuse receptacles for loose debris, paper, packaging materials and other trash and refuse. The owner or occupant of the commercial establishment shall place a sufficient number of containers, not less than the number required by the county administrator for that establishment, in such area to maintain a clean, neat and sanitary condition at all times. The occupant of the premises shall maintain surveillance to ensure that all refuse is placed in the proper container and that the area is kept clean and free of litter.
(Code 2003, § 42-9; Ord. of 3-29-1994, § VI)
Sec. 26-10. - Prohibited activities.
The following activities are declared to be unlawful and in violation of this chapter:
(1)
Public streets and private property. No person shall place any litter, refuse, garbage or trash in any street, median strip, alley or other public place of travel, nor upon any other public property, nor upon any private property except with the written consent of the owner or occupant thereof, and then only in accordance with the provisions of this chapter.
(2)
Blockage of drainage. No person shall place any litter, refuse, trash, trees, grass, refuse receptacles, containers or garbage on, over, or so close thereto as to cause such material to interfere in any way with such drainage.
(3)
Appliances. No person shall leave outside any building, in a place accessible to children, any appliance, refrigerator or other container which has an airtight snap lock or similar device without first removing therefrom the door. This section shall not apply to any appliance, refrigerator or container which has been placed on or adjacent to the rear of the building and which has been crated, strapped or locked so that it will be impossible for a child to obtain access to any compartment thereof.
(4)
Vacant units, lots and rental units. The county will not remove garbage, trash, building material, household trash or tree shrubbery or lawn trimmings or any other debris that is accumulated. Once advised of a violation of this subsection in writing, the owner/manager shall have seven calendar days to remove or have removed all debris. If not accomplished in such allotted time, the county shall dispose of the debris and charge the owner/manager the amount necessary to pay for such removal.
(5)
Scavenging. No person other than the owner thereof shall disturb or interfere with any container used for the purpose of storing refuse pending its collection, remove any contents therefrom, or remove such container from its location.
(6)
Scattering of refuse and littering prohibited. No person shall throw or deposit the following:
a.
Any refuse on any public or private street or to scatter such refuse or litter on any public or private property.
b.
Any refuse, trash or debris in any marsh area, stream, drainage ditch, body of water or beach area.
(7)
Use of streets. It shall be unlawful for any vehicle transporting loose materials on any of the roads of the county to transport such loose material without suitable covers securely fastened to the vehicle in such manner as to prevent such loose material from being deposited on the streets or adjoining areas.
(8)
Accumulation of litter. No owner or occupant of any property in the unincorporated areas of the county shall allow litter, garbage, refuse, rubbish, filth, carrion and debris to accumulate thereon. If any owner, occupant, or other person responsible for the existence of any of such conditions shall fail to remedy such conditions within seven days, excluding Saturdays, Sundays and holidays, after notice to remedy the condition from the county administrator, inspection department or the sheriff's department. Such condition shall be a violation of this chapter and punishable as provided in section 1-13, and abatable as a nuisance.
(9)
Unlawful dumping. It shall be unlawful for any person to deposit, drop, dump, or otherwise leave any litter on the premises of another without the consent of such other person, and without complying with the other provisions of this chapter or the rules and regulations of the county administrator adopted pursuant to this chapter.
(10)
Ownership of refuse. All refuse, including refuse deposited in refuse containers provided by the county, shall be and shall remain the property of the owner or occupant until such refuse has been placed in vehicles of the county or its designee. The county has no responsibility or liability for any injuries or damage resulting from such refuse.
(Code 2003, § 42-10; Ord. of 3-29-1994, § VII)
