Chapter 10 - BUSINESSES AND BUSINESS REGULATIONS[1]
ARTICLE I. - IN GENERAL

Secs. 10-1—10-18. - Reserved.
ARTICLE II. - PAWNBROKERS[2]

Sec. 10-19. - Registers.
(a)
All pawnbrokers, pawnshops, and similar establishments shall maintain a register in which shall be entered in legible English, at the time of each loan, purchase or sale, the information set out in O.C.G.A. § 44-12-132.
(b)
Such information described in subsection (a) of this section shall be maintained by the operator of such business for a period of four years from the date of entry and may be reviewed at any time by the police chief.
(Code 2003, § 18-31; Ord. of 8-3-1993, §§ 1, 2)
Sec. 10-20. - Compliance required.
Failure to comply with all the provisions of this article shall be grounds for revocation of any business license issued to any such establishment.
(Code 2003, § 18-32; Ord. of 8-3-1993, § 4)
Secs. 10-21—10-43. - Reserved.
ARTICLE III. - POOL AND BILLIARD TABLES[3]
DIVISION 1. - GENERALLY

Sec. 10-44. - Hours of operation.
No pool table or billiard table shall be operated or conducted or permitted to be operated or conducted by the licensee between the hours of 12:00 midnight and 6:00 a.m. No pool table or billiard table shall be operated at any time on Sunday.
(Code 1980, § 18-61; Code 2003, § 18-61)
Sec. 10-45. - Gambling.
It shall be unlawful for any person to keep any pool table or billiard table in the city for the purpose of gambling on the games. Proof of gambling thereon shall be considered prima facie evidence that such tables were kept in violation of this section.
(Code 1980, § 18-62; Code 2003, § 18-62)
Secs. 10-46—10-63. - Reserved.
DIVISION 2. - PERMIT

Sec. 10-64. - Required.
It shall be unlawful for any person to operate or conduct for hire or profit, in the city, any pool table or billiard table, without first having made written application for, and obtaining from the city council a permit to do so.
(Code 1980, § 13-101; Code 2003, § 18-81)
Sec. 10-65. - Application; information required.
Applications for permits to conduct a pool table or billiard table shall be made in the name of the person desiring to engage in the business, and, in the case of firms or corporations, the individual names of those composing the firm and the managing officers of the corporation. The application shall specify the following information:
(1)
The year which the permit is to cover.
(2)
The location of the place of business.
(3)
The number and kinds of tables to be operated.
(4)
If such business is to be operated in connection with any kind of business, the nature of that business.
(Code 1980, § 13-102; Code 2003, § 18-82)
Sec. 10-66. - Granting of permit.
No application for a permit to operate a pool table or billiard table in the city shall be granted until such application shall have been read one time at two regular meetings of the city council. When such application for a permit is presented to the council and before such application is finally acted upon, any adjoining property owners or tenants or any property owner or tenant within a radius of 300 feet of the main entrance of the building in which the proposed pool table or billiard table is to be operated may file with the council any objections, in person or in writing, that they may have to the granting of such permit. The council may hear evidence on such objections after notice and an opportunity to be heard to all parties and if, in the opinion of the council, such permit should not be granted, the council may refuse such application for a permit.
(Code 1980, § 13-103; Code 2003, § 18-83)
Secs. 10-67—10-90. - Reserved.
ARTICLE IV. - SOLICITORS[4]

Sec. 10-91. - Definitions.
The following words, terms and phrases, when used in this article, shall have the meanings ascribed to them in this section, except where the context clearly indicates a different meaning:
Registered solicitor means any person who has obtained a valid certificate of registration as provided in this article, which certificate is in the possession of the solicitor on his person while engaged in soliciting.
Residence means every separate living unit occupied for residential purposes by one or more persons, contained within any type of building or structure.
Soliciting means any one or more of the following activities:
(1)
Seeking to obtain orders for the purchase of goods, wares, merchandise, foodstuffs, or services of any kind, character or description whatever, for any kind of consideration whatever;
(2)
Seeking to obtain prospective customers for application or purchase of insurance of any type, kind or character;
(3)
Seeking to obtain subscriptions to books, magazines, periodicals, newspapers and every other type or kind of publication; or
(4)
Seeking to obtain gifts or contributions of money, clothing or any other valuable thing for the support or benefit of any charitable or nonprofit association, organization, corporation, or project.
(Code 2003, § 18-101; Ord. of 10-4-1983, § 1)
Sec. 10-92. - Certificate of registration required.
Every person desiring to engage in soliciting from persons in residences within the city is required to make written application for a certificate of registration. Such certificate shall be carried by the solicitor.
(Code 2003, § 18-102; Ord. of 10-4-1983, § 2)
Sec. 10-93. - Application for certificate of registration.
(a)
Application for a certificate of registration shall be made upon a form provided by the city. The applicant shall truthfully state in full the information requested on the application, as follows:
(1)
Name and address of the present place of residence and length of the residence at such address; also the business address if other than the present address.
(2)
Address of the place of residence during the past three years if other than the present address.
(3)
Age of the applicant.
(4)
Physical description of the applicant.
(5)
Name and address of the person, firm or corporation or association whom the applicant is employed by or represents; and the length of time of such employment or representation.
(6)
Name and address of the employer during the past three years if other than the present employer.
(7)
Description sufficient for identification of the subject matter of the soliciting in which the applicant will engage.
(8)
Period of time for which the certificate is applied.
(9)
The date, or approximate date, of the latest previous application for certificate under this article, if any.
(10)
Whether a certificate of registration issued to the applicant under this article has ever been revoked.
(11)
Whether the applicant has ever been convicted of a violation of a felony under the laws of the state or any other state or federal law of the United States.
(b)
All statements made by the applicant upon the application for a certificate of registration or in connection therewith shall be under oath.
(c)
The applicant shall submit to fingerprinting by the police department of the city in connection with the application for the certificate of registration.
(d)
The city clerk shall cause to be kept in his office an accurate record of every application received and acted upon together with all other information and data pertaining thereto and all certificates of registration issued under the provisions of this article, and of the denial of applications. Applications for certificates shall be numbered in consecutive order as filed, and every certificate issued, and any renewal thereof, shall be identified with the duplicate number of the application upon which it was issued.
(e)
No certificate of registration shall be issued to any person who has been convicted of the commission of a felony under the laws of the state or any other state or federal law of the United States, within five years of the date of the application; nor to any person who has been convicted of a violation of any of the provisions of this article, nor to any person whose certificate of registration issued under this article has previously been revoked as provided in this article.
(Code 2003, § 18-103; Ord. of 10-4-1983, § 3)
Sec. 10-94. - Revocation of certificate.
Any certificate of registration issued under this article shall be revoked by the police chief if the holder of the certificate is convicted of a violation of any of the provisions of this article, or has made a false material statement in the application, or otherwise becomes disqualified for the issuance of a certificate of registration under the terms of this article. Immediately upon such revocation, written notice thereof shall be given by the police chief to the holder of the certificate in person or by certified United States mail addressed to his residence address set forth in the application. Immediately upon the giving of such notice, the certificate of registration shall become null and void. The certificate of registration shall state the expiration date thereof.
(Code 2003, § 18-104; Ord. of 10-4-1983, § 4)
Sec. 10-95. - Notice regulating soliciting.
Every person desiring to secure the protection provided by the regulations pertaining to soliciting contained in this article shall comply with the following directions. Notice of the determination by the occupant of giving invitation to solicitors, or the refusal of invitation to solicitors, to any residence, shall be given in the manner following: A weatherproof card, approximately three inches by four inches in size, shall be exhibited upon or near the main entrance door to the residence, indicating the determination by the occupant, containing the applicable words, as follows: "Only Solicitors Registered in the City of Leesburg Invited" or "No Solicitors Invited." The letters shall be at least one-third inch in height. For the purpose of uniformity, the cards shall be provided by the police chief to persons requesting, at the cost thereof. Such card so exhibited shall constitute sufficient notice to any solicitor of the determination by the occupant of the residence of the information contained thereon.
(Code 2003, § 18-105; Ord. of 10-4-1983, § 5)
Sec. 10-96. - Duty of solicitors.
It shall be the duty of every solicitor upon going onto any premises in the city upon which a residence is located to first examine the notice provided for in this article, if any is attached, and be governed by the statement contained on any notice. If the notice states "Only Solicitors Registered in the City of Leesburg Invited," then the solicitor not possessing a valid certificate of registration shall immediately and peacefully depart from the premises; and if the notice states "No Solicitors Invited," then the solicitor, whether registered or not, shall immediately and peacefully depart from the premises. Any solicitor who has gained entrance to any residence, whether invited or not, shall immediately and peacefully depart from the premises when requested to do so by the occupant.
(Code 2003, § 18-106; Ord. of 10-4-1983, § 6)
Sec. 10-97. - Uninvited soliciting prohibited.
It is declared to be unlawful and shall constitute a nuisance for any person to go upon any premises and ring the doorbell upon or near any door, or create any sound in any other manner calculated to attract the attention of the occupant of such residence, for the purpose of securing an audience with the occupant thereof and engage in soliciting, in defiance of the notice exhibited at the residence in accordance with the provisions of section 10-96.
(Code 2003, § 18-107; Ord. of 10-4-1983, § 7)
Sec. 10-98. - Time limit on soliciting.
It is declared to be unlawful and shall constitute a nuisance for any person, whether registered under this article or not, to go upon any premises and ring the doorbell upon or near any door of a residence located thereon, or rap or knock upon any door or create any sound in any other manner calculated to attract the attention of the occupant of such residence, for the purpose of securing an audience with the occupant thereof and engage in soliciting prior to 9:00 a.m. or after 9:00 p.m. of any weekday, or at any time on a Sunday or on a state or national holiday.
(Code 2003, § 18-108; Ord. of 10-4-1983, § 8)
