DIVISION 16. - SOLICITING

Sec. 12-550. - Intent.
The intent of the City Council in enacting this division is to regulate the sale of goods and services by canvassing, soliciting, or peddling at residences in the City, to the end that criminal activity in the City and abusive techniques utilized by any such canvassers, solicitors or peddlers which adversely affect the public health, safety, and welfare in the City will be curtailed. This division is not intended as a de facto prohibition of door-to-door solicitation, nor is it an attempt to adversely affect interstate commerce. Instead, this division is intended to balance competing interests, reduce criminal activity and protect City citizens from abusive sales techniques versus the conduct of proper commercial sales activity. This division is not intended to allow any business activity which would otherwise be unlawful.
Sec. 12-551. - Definitions.
For purposes of this division, the terms "canvasser," "solicitor" or "peddler" include any person who solicits orders door-to-door or house-to-house on behalf of a business, entity, individual, vocation or occupation.
Sec. 12-552. - Exempt activities or organizations.
(a)
Persons, businesses and organizations exempted from local regulation by operation of State or federal law or by the Constitution of the United States, or of the State, are exempt from the requirements of this division.
(b)
Bona fide charitable or nonprofit organizations whose field sales representatives are under the age of 15 are not required to obtain an occupation tax certificate, canvasser's or solicitor's permit.
(c)
Federal, State or local government employees or public utility employees in the performance of his duty for his employer.
Sec. 12-553. - Occupation tax certificate required, application.
(a)
All persons, firms, companies, corporations or other entities engaging or offering to engage in business as a canvasser, solicitor or peddler involving going from door-to-door or house-to-house, without an appointment or invitation, in residential areas or businesses of the City, for the purpose of soliciting orders, sales, subscriptions, or conducting business of any kind, shall file an application in the required form, and obtain an occupation tax certificate for such activity from the City Clerk. Provided, however, that nonprofit agencies, entities, or organizations which are certified as exempt from payment of U.S. Income Taxes by the Internal Revenue Service may canvass or solicit without permits, upon registering with the City Clerk and furnishing the Police Department written confirmation of their tax exempt status and a list of their representatives including names, addresses, date of birth, Social Security number, and telephone numbers.
(b)
The application shall include but shall not be limited to the information required on all occupation tax returns, along with the following additional information:
(1)
Full name, date of birth, address, and Social Security number of applicant.
(2)
Full name(s), date(s) of birth, and Social Security number(s) of any other person(s) having an ownership interest in the proposed business. In the case of a corporation, this list shall include owners of 20 or more percent of the common or preferred stock.
(3)
Full names, dates of birth, and Social Security numbers, and titles of corporate officers where appropriate.
(4)
Full name, address, telephone number, date of birth, title, and Social Security number of individuals to be employed.
(c)
It shall be the duty of all persons holding an occupation tax certificate under this section to annually file, along with the renewal application for the occupation tax certificate, the names, home address, home telephone number, date of birth, Social Security number and place of employment for all employees so engaged in canvassing, soliciting or peddling.
Sec. 12-554. - Work permits required, annual list.
(a)
Prior to the issuance of an occupation tax certificate, a work permit shall be required for the owner(s), manager(s) and employee(s).
(b)
Applications for work permits shall be submitted to the Police Department. The application shall be submitted along with a fee of $25.00. The application shall include the following information: full name, home address, home telephone number, date of birth and Social Security number. The Police Department shall conduct a background check and shall issue permits subject to the requirements and limitations contained in sections 12-555 and 12-557.
(c)
If an application for a work permit is denied for any reason, the applicant will be notified in writing of such denial and the reason for the denial. The applicant may appeal the decision of the Police Department to the Zoning Board of Appeals. Such appeal shall be by written petition, filed in the office of the City Clerk within 15 days after the final order or action of the Police Department and in order to defray administrative costs, must be accompanied by a filing fee of $50.00.
Sec. 12-555. - Applicant disqualification.
No occupation tax certificate or work permit shall be granted to any person under the age of 18 or who has been convicted, pled guilty or entered a plea of nolo contendere under any federal, state or local law of any crime involving moral turpitude, illegal gambling, any felony, criminal trespass, public indecency, misdemeanor involving any type of sexual related crime, any theft or violence against person or property, any crime of possession or sale, or distribution of illegal drugs, distribution of material depicting nudity or sexual conduct as defined under state law, criminal solicitation to commit any of these listed offenses, attempts to commit any of these listed offenses, for a period of ten years prior to the date of application for such certificate or work permit and has been released from parole or probation.
Sec. 12-556. - General operating provisions.
It shall be the duty of any person granted a certificate under this division to maintain correct and accurate records concerning proposed method of operation in the City, including the dates and times and area of operation, and employee's assignments by geographic area and dates. Such record shall be kept for a minimum of 12 months beyond the expiration date of the occupation tax certificate and shall be made available for inspection by the Chief of Police or designee or City Clerk or designee. A copy of such record shall be forwarded to the Chief of Police or his designee quarterly.
Sec. 12-557. - Suspension or revocation of occupation tax certificate or permit.
(a)
The work permit or certificate of any canvasser, solicitor or peddler charged with any felony, criminal trespass, public indecency, misdemeanor involving any type of sex crime, theft or violence against person or property, criminal solicitation to commit any of these offenses, or violation of this chapter or any other City ordinance while canvassing or soliciting shall be deemed suspended and subject to seizure from the time of lawful arrest by the Police Department, or an arrest for any violation of the Georgia Criminal Code by any law enforcement agency within Gwinnett County. Such suspension shall remain in effect until the canvasser, solicitor or peddler is convicted or acquitted, or until the charge is dismissed, "dead-docketed," "nolle prossed," or "no-billed." It shall be the responsibility of the canvasser or solicitor to present the Police Department with proof that the arrest which led to the suspension was dismissed, "dead-docketed," "nolle prossed," or "no-billed." Upon presentation of proof of such dispositions, the certificate or the canvasser or solicitor permit will be reinstated and will be valid until date of original expiration.
(b)
The certificate or permit of any canvasser, solicitor or peddler who is convicted, has entered a plea of guilty, or has received a nolo contendere to a felony, criminal trespass, public indecency, misdemeanor involving any type of sex crime, theft or violence against person or property, or criminal solicitation to commit any of these offenses, shall be deemed revoked and subject to seizure by the Chief of Police or designee or the City Clerk or designee from the time of such conviction, guilty, or nolo contendere sentencing.
(c)
The certificate or permit of any canvasser, solicitor or peddler who is convicted, has pled guilty, or received nolo contendere sentencing for any violation of this chapter shall be deemed revoked and subject to seizure by the Chief of Police or designee or the City Clerk or designee from the time of such sentencing.
(d)
If a certificate or work permit is denied, revoked or suspended for any reason, the applicant will be notified in writing of such denial and the reason for the denial. The applicant may appeal the decision to deny, revoke or suspend the certificate or permit to the Zoning Board of Appeals. Such appeal shall be by written petition, filed in the office of the City Clerk within 15 days after the final order or action of the Police Department and in order to defray administrative costs, must be accompanied by a filing fee of $50.00.
Sec. 12-558. - Unlawful or prohibited activities.
The following are prohibited practices for canvassers, solicitors, and/or peddlers and any violation shall constitute grounds for suspension, revocation, or denial of renewal of certificate or permit, and/or arrest:
(1)
Canvassing, soliciting or peddling on Sunday, or between the hours of 9:00 p.m. and 9:00 a.m. Monday through Saturday.
(2)
Canvassing, soliciting or peddling at any location where a sign is posted at or near the main entrance or driveway to the residence or business prohibiting such activity.
(3)
Using any entrance, or part of the building, other than the main entrance to the residence or business.
(4)
Entering a residence except at the express invitation of the occupant.
(5)
Failure of the canvasser, solicitor or peddler to inform the occupant in plain terms of the purpose of the call.
(6)
The canvasser, solicitor or peddler to represent that they are participating in any contest, game or other competitive endeavor, or that they are offering the occupant an opportunity to participate in any such contest, game or endeavor.
(7)
The canvasser, solicitor or peddler to use vulgar, insulting or threatening language in the course of any solicitation.
(8)
The canvasser, solicitor or peddler to remain upon the property of the residence or business after the occupant has verbally indicated that they do not wish to make a purchase or donation. For the purpose of this chapter, a solicitation shall be deemed to continue until the solicitor has left property of the residence or business.
(9)
Canvassing, soliciting or peddling anyone under the age of 18 years.
(10)
Failure of canvasser or solicitor to have a valid permit prominently displayed on their person (upper front portion of the body commonly referred to as the top of the shoulders down to the waist) or refuse any customer or prospective customer's request to examine same. All canvassers or solicitors of nonprofit organizations who solicit funds without a certificate or permit shall have prominently displayed documentation identifying themselves, their organization including tax exempt status, and shall not refuse any customer or prospective customer the right to examine same upon request. Except that canvassers or solicitors of nonprofit organizations who are under the age of 15 are not required to display or produce for examination any documentation.
(11)
For more than two canvassers, solicitors or peddlers to engage in solicitation upon any residence or business at the same time for the same goods or services.
(12)
Canvasser, solicitor or peddler to make more than one solicitation call at the same residence within any consecutive two-week period without receiving prior invitation from the occupant of such residence.
(13)
Canvasser, solicitor or peddler to violate any of the provisions of this article, or to violate any other county ordinance while engaging in any of the activities described.
(14)
Canvasser, solicitor or peddler to engage in any of the conduct described in this article during a period in which their certificate or permit is denied, suspended, or revoked.
(15)
Canvasser, solicitor or peddler to lend, rent, or sell their certificate or permit card to another, or canvass or solicit using the certificate or permit card of another.
(16)
The canvasser, solicitor or peddler to deviate from the stated guidelines as set out in the certificate or permit application or amendments thereto filed by applicant or certificate holder.
( Ord. No. 2021-4, § 1, 5-24-2021 )
Secs. 12-559—12-584. - Reserved.
