DIVISION 10. - HANDWRITING ANALYSTS AND FORTUNE TELLERS

Sec. 12-294. - License required.
It shall be unlawful for any person to practice handwriting analysis or fortune telling in the City unless that person holds a valid unexpired and unrevoked license to engage in the practice of handwriting analysis or fortune telling issued by the City. For the purpose of this division, the term "handwriting analysis" means the interpretation of human experience based upon an examination of handwriting or other inscription done by hand for fee, gift or donation; and the term "fortune telling" means the prediction of the future for a fee, gift or donation.
(Code 2005, § 32-212(a))
Sec. 12-295. - Fee established.
The annual business license fee for each handwriting analyst or fortune teller shall be $100.00.
(Code 2005, § 32-212(b))
Sec. 12-296. - Definitions.
The following words, terms and phrases, when used in this division, shall have the meanings ascribed to them in this section, except where the context clearly indicates a different meaning:
Fortune telling means the prediction of the future for a fee, gift or donation.
Handwriting analysis means the interpretation of human experience based upon an examination of handwriting or other inscription done by hand for fee, gift or donation.
(Code 2005, § 32-212(a))
Sec. 12-297. - Application.
Any person desiring to practice handwriting analysis or fortune telling in the City shall make application for a permit to the Bureau of Police Services on forms to be prepared and approved by the City Manager or his designee. The applicant shall meet the following requirements prior to being licensed to practice handwriting analysis or fortune telling in the City:
(1)
Be 18 years of age or more;
(2)
Not have been convicted of a crime of any grade or any ordinance violation involving the following categories of criminal conduct: larceny, embezzlement, fraudulent conveyance; perjury and/or false swearing, or subrogation or either, gambling, deceitful means, artful practices, lottery, felonies or other group I crimes, as defined in the Uniform Crime Reporting Manual, Federal Bureau of Investigation, United States Department of Justice which are reasonably related to the activities regulated in this division, within three years of the date of the application;
(3)
Allow fingerprints to be made by the Bureau of Police Services at the time of application; and
(4)
Furnish the Bureau two photographs showing a front and side picture of the full face of the applicant, size 2½ inches by 2¾ inches.
(Code 2005, § 32-212(c))
Sec. 12-298. - Revocation and suspension of permit.
Any person failing to comply with any provision of this division, or such other laws and regulations as may be passed by the Council for the conduct of the business of handwriting analysis or fortune telling, shall be subject to having his license to conduct the business revoked or suspended upon appropriate notice of hearing.
(Code 2005, § 32-212(d))
Sec. 12-299. - Location of business.
Pursuant to the City Zoning Ordinance, any person performing the services of a handwriting analyst or fortune teller may maintain such a business only in the HSB Zoning Classification.
(Code 2005, § 32-212(e))
Secs. 12-300—12-316. - Reserved.
