Chapter 36 - TRAFFIC AND VEHICLES[1]
Footnotes:
--- (1) ---
State Law reference— Motor vehicles, O.C.G.A. § 40-6-1 et seq.; abandoned motor vehicles, O.C.G.A. § 40-11-1 et seq.

ARTICLE I. - IN GENERAL

Sec. 36-1. - Uniform rules of the road adopted.
Pursuant to O.C.G.A. §§ 40-1-1 and 40-6-1 through 40-6-397, known as the "uniform rules of the road," are hereby adopted as and for the traffic regulations of the city, with like effect as if recited in full herein.
(Code 2002, § 8-1-1; Ord. No. 001-002-2011, § 3, 2-8-2011)
Sec. 36-2. - Temporary traffic regulations.
In cases where traffic upon the streets of the city may become congested upon occasions of parades, festivals and other public assemblages where large numbers of vehicles are assembled, the police chief may make temporary rules directing and regulating the traffic in these congested districts, and any person, after being warned of the temporary traffic regulations, who shall violate the regulations shall be liable therefor as for other violations of this Code.
(Code 2002, § 8-1-2)
Sec. 36-3. - Free flow of traffic; obstruction prohibited.
All persons are prohibited from engaging in driving procedures which obstruct the free flow of traffic in, around, over and through the streets, alleyways and other public ways of the city. Any person is prohibited from stopping his vehicle (except at a stop signal or stop sign, or to honor another driver's right-of-way, or in an emergency situation) in a manner as to obstruct the free and orderly flow of traffic by the maneuver of his vehicle, or to engage in unduly slow driving procedures so as to obstruct the free flow of traffic or to repeatedly pass a fixed point or make unnecessarily rapid accelerations and decelerations or to in any other manner constitute a traffic nuisance or hazard.
(Code 2002, § 8-2-1)
Sec. 36-4. - Speed limits established.
(a)
No person shall operate any motor vehicle or tractor upon any of the streets and highways of the city at a greater speed than is reasonable and proper having regard to the width, traffic volume and use thereof, or so as to endanger the property or life or limb of any person.
(b)
Thirty miles per hour shall be the maximum speed on all streets or portions of streets within the city unless otherwise indicated by officially posted signs designating the maximum vehicular speed upon those streets as approved by the mayor and council.
(c)
Special speed zones and special speed limits shall be established by the mayor and city council, from time to time, and made available for public examination in a schedule maintained in the office of the city clerk. No person shall drive a vehicle at a speed in excess of the maximum speed limits.
(Code 2002, § 8-2-2; Ord. No. 001-002-2011, § 4, 2-8-2011)
Sec. 36-5. - Traffic signs, signals and markings.
All traffic shall obey and be directed by official traffic control signals, signs and markings erected at street intersections and other locations now or hereafter approved by the mayor and council.
(Code 2002, § 8-2-3)
Sec. 36-6. - Tracked vehicles prohibited on streets.
It is unlawful for any person to operate any tracked or other vehicle having metal tracks or wheels upon the city streets.
(Code 2002, § 8-2-4)
Sec. 36-7. - Driver's ability impaired.
It shall be unlawful for any person to operate a motor vehicle within the corporate limits of the city while the driver's ability to operate such vehicle is impaired by fatigue, drowsiness, the ingestion of legally prescribed drugs or the consumption of any other substances not by law declared contraband.
(Code 2002, § 8-2-5)
Sec. 36-8. - Spinning tires.
It shall be unlawful for any person within the corporate limits of the city to intentionally cause the wheels of a motor vehicle to spin so as to create a loud and vexatious noise which is audible at a distance of more than 100 yards from such vehicle.
(Code 2002, § 8-2-6)
Sec. 36-9. - Enforcement.
(a)
The police department of the city shall be responsible for the enforcement of this chapter through the issuance of appropriate citations and/or arrests.
(b)
In the exercise of these duties, the police department is authorized to use any appropriate speed detection devices whether hand-held or attached to a motor vehicle.
(Ord. No. 001-002-2011, § 5(8-2-8), 2-8-2011)
Secs. 36-10—36-36. - Reserved.
ARTICLE II. - TRAFFIC CONTROL DEVICES

Sec. 36-37. - Traffic, speed, truck, parking and other zones, signs and traffic control devices; schedule.
(a)
The police chief or a designee thereof, upon approval by ordinance of the mayor and council, is authorized to designate and maintain with appropriate traffic control signs, markings and devices after engineering and traffic investigations:
(1)
Speed zones;
(2)
Truck routes and streets to be designated specifically to prohibit various classes of trucks;
(3)
One-way streets and other directional control devices;
(4)
Freight loading zones and regulations;
(5)
Parking and no parking zones and regulations thereon;
(6)
Stop, yield and other right-of-way signs; and
(7)
Stop signals and other traffic signals.
(b)
The police chief or a designee thereof is authorized to issue written orders designating by appropriate traffic control signs, markings and devices after engineering and traffic investigations:
(1)
Pedestrian crosswalks;
(2)
Other safety zones for pedestrians;
(3)
Traffic lanes; and
(4)
Any other sign, marking or zone necessary for orderly and safe conditions on the streets of the city.
(c)
The police chief shall maintain or cause to be recorded a current schedule of all traffic rules, regulations and orders under this section, which record shall be available for inspection by the public. For items listed in this article, this schedule, and any amendments thereto, shall become effective only upon approval thereof by ordinance of the mayor and council and this schedule is hereby incorporated herein and copies thereof shall be available for public inspection in the office of the city clerk.
(d)
All traffic control signs, signals, devices and markings shall conform to specifications in the Manual on Uniform Traffic Control Devices adopted by the state transportation board. All signs and signals required hereunder for a particular purpose shall, so far as practicable, be uniform as to type and location throughout the city. All traffic control devices so erected and not inconsistent with the provisions of state law or this Code shall be official traffic control devices of the city.
(e)
Any violation of any traffic zone, marking, sign or other traffic control device established hereunder shall be a violation of this article.
(Code 2002, § 8-1-4)
Secs. 36-38—36-62. - Reserved.
ARTICLE III. - PARKING

Sec. 36-63. - Vehicles to be parked within marked spaces.
Whenever a parking space is marked off on any highway or other roadway for the parking of an individual vehicle, every vehicle there parked shall be parked within the lines bounding that space.
(Code 2002, § 8-3-1)
Sec. 36-64. - Parking prohibited at all times in certain locations.
It is unlawful for the owner or operator of any motor vehicle or other vehicle to park the vehicle in any of the places on the streets and alleys of the city specifically designated by posted signs indicating the prohibited parking.
(Code 2002, § 8-3-2)
Sec. 36-65. - Parking prohibited in certain locations, certain days and hours.
It is unlawful for the owner or operator of any motor vehicle or other vehicle to park the vehicle in any of the places on the days and between the hours indicated and specified by posted signs indicating the prohibited parking.
(Code 2002, § 8-3-3)
Sec. 36-66. - Parking time limited in certain locations, certain days and hours.
It is unlawful for the owner or operator of any motor vehicle, or other vehicle to park the vehicle or allow the vehicle to remain parked in any of the places on the streets and alleys of the city, at any time on the days and between the hours indicated and specified by posted signs limiting parking time in certain locations on certain days and hours.
(Code 2002, § 8-3-4)
Sec. 36-67. - Special purpose parking zones established, parking otherwise prohibited.
It is unlawful for the owner or operator of any motor vehicle, or other vehicle to park the vehicle or allow the vehicle to remain parked in any locations on the streets and alleys of the city established and designated as special purpose parking zones indicated and specified by posted signs approved by the mayor and council.
(Code 2002, § 8-3-5)
Sec. 36-68. - Trucks parked on right-of-way.
No person, firm or corporation shall park or cause to be parked a truck, trailer, mobile home, camper, pole trailer or other motor vehicle having a length of more than 35 feet and/or a width of more than eight feet upon the right-of-way of any of the public streets and roadways of the city between the time of 6:00 p.m. and 6:00 a.m., except that such motor vehicle may be so parked for a period of not more than 30 minutes provided the same is illuminated and at all times under the care and attendance of a licensed motor vehicle operator.
(Code 2002, § 8-3-6)
Secs. 36-69—36-94. - Reserved.
ARTICLE IV. - ROAD SYSTEM REGULATION

Sec. 36-95. - Title.
This article shall be known and referred to as the "City of Wrens Road System Regulation Ordinance."
(Code 2002, § 8-4-1)
Sec. 36-96. - Purpose.
This article is made, adopted, and enacted for the physical, social, and economic growth of the city as will best promote the public health, safety, morals, convenience, prosperity, and general welfare of the citizens of the city, and for the purpose of protecting the public investment in rights-of-way, road beds, ditches, bridges, and improvements of the city road system.
(Code 2002, § 8-4-2)
Sec. 36-97. - Definitions.
The following words, terms and phrases, when used in this article, shall have the meanings ascribed to them in this section, except where the context clearly indicates a different meaning:
Bobtail is a term which describes a tractor trailer truck possessing ten wheels or more without a trailer attached.
City road system means all roads, streets and roadways owned by the city and operated and maintained for the travel and convenience of the public. This definition shall include all bridges, culverts, ditches, drainage structures, rights-of-way, sidewalks, and appurtenances, and improvements to the city roads.
Residence district means the territory contiguous to the property on such road in the main improved area with residences or a residence for a distance of 300 feet or more; includes the term "residential district."
Residential streets means those streets in a residence district.
Road means the entire width between the boundary of every way publicly maintained when any part thereof is open to the use of vehicular travel; includes the terms "street" and "highway."
(Code 2002, § 8-4-3)
Sec. 36-98. - Route of travel, through trucks.
For the purpose of delivery or transport of goods, articles or wares, all heavily laden trucks or delivery vehicles shall proceed over county, state, or federal routes or designated truck routes for delivery or transport of such goods, articles, or wares, except as provided herein.
(1)
All trucks or delivery vehicles having a gross weight in excess of 17,500 pounds, including the load thereon, or having an overall length of 30 feet, except vehicles designated to carry passengers, are prohibited from using or parking on any street or road within the city, which is so posted, or on any residential street in the city road system, except those authorized and designated as truck routes by ordinance or resolution, except when the terminal, parking lot, repair garage or headquarters, or place of pick up or delivery for the restricted vehicle is not on a designated truck route, ingress to and egress from such places shall be made by the most direct route available between the terminal, parking lot, repair garage, headquarters, or place of pickup or delivery and the nearest designated truck route. Also exempt from this article are tractor trailer owner/operators which shall be allowed to "bobtail" to their place of residence by the most direct route to their residence as required by this article.
(2)
The weight limitations provided for in subsection (1) of this section shall not apply to vehicles and equipment of the city or the state or under contract with either for the construction, repair, and maintenance of roads and bridges in the city.
(Code 2002, § 8-4-4)
Sec. 36-99. - Inspection authorized.
Any person driving or in charge or control of any truck or delivery vehicle that is being operated on any street or road within the city where the operation of any trucks or delivery vehicles have been restricted under any provisions of this article shall be prepared to present for inspection by the chief of police or any police officer the truck or delivery vehicle log book, weight slips, delivery slips, or other written evidence of the destination and point of origin of the truck or delivery vehicle to justify the presence of the restricted truck or delivery vehicle on a street other than a designated truck route.
(Code 2002, § 8-4-5)
Sec. 36-100. - Enforcement.
(a)
Each and every day that any such violation exists shall be deemed a separate violation of this article.
(b)
The imposition of any such fine or imprisonment, or both, for any violation of this article shall not excuse the violation or allow it to continue; and all such violators shall be required to correct or remedy such violations within the time as prescribed by the court having jurisdiction of such matter, and, in the absence of any such completion time being fixed by the court, within a reasonable time after such violations occur.
(c)
The chief of police of the city or any city police officer is authorized to enforce the provisions of this article.
(Code 2002, § 8-4-6)
Secs. 36-101—36-128. - Reserved.
ARTICLE V. - PARADES

Sec. 36-129. - Parades; permit required.
It shall be unlawful for any person to participate in, conduct or accompany any organized parade or procession, other than a funeral procession, on the public streets, sidewalks or other public property in the city unless an application has been previously filed and a permit granted to conduct such parade or procession within the city.
(Code 2002, § 7-10-1)
Sec. 36-130. - Application for parade permit.
An application for permit to conduct or sponsor a parade or procession shall be filed with the city administrator in writing and shall contain the following information furnished by the person organizing and directing the proposed parade or procession:
(1)
The name of all organizations or persons organizing or sponsoring the parade or procession;
(2)
The purpose of the parade or procession;
(3)
The date and designated hours of the parade or procession;
(4)
The proposed route of the parade or procession, including its beginning and termination points;
(5)
The number and types of vehicles, marching units and floats to be used in the parade or procession; and
(6)
The number of persons participating in the parade or procession.
(Code 2002, § 7-10-2)
Sec. 36-131. - Investigation.
The city administrator shall investigate all applications for parade permits, and may issue permits where the information specified in section 36-130 has been furnished, provided the proposed parade or procession is otherwise lawful and can be held without undue interference with vehicular and pedestrian traffic within the city. The city administrator shall exercise his discretion in making this determination.
(Code 2002, § 7-10-3)
Secs. 36-132—36-160. - Reserved.
ARTICLE VI. - BICYCLES

Sec. 36-161. - Use enforcement.
No person under the age of 16 years shall operate or be a passenger on a bicycle on a highway, street, bicycle path or sidewalk under the jurisdiction of the city without wearing a bicycle helmet.
(Code 2002, § 7-6-1)
Sec. 36-162. - Definition.
For the purpose of this article, the term "bicycle helmet" means a piece of protective headgear which meets or exceeds the impact standards for bicycle helmets set by the American National Standards Institute (ANSI). For the purpose of this article, a person shall be deemed to be wearing a bicycle helmet only if a bicycle helmet of good fit is fastened securely upon the head with the straps of the helmet.
(Code 2002, § 7-6-2)
Sec. 36-163. - Penalty.
A person under the age of 16 years failing to comply with this article shall have his bicycle impounded by the city police. The parent or lawful custodian of the child may then retrieve the bicycle by going to the police department and showing proof that the child now has a bicycle helmet or by indicating that the child will not ride the bicycle in the future without a helmet. Proof of ownership of a bicycle helmet may be the helmet itself or a receipt documenting the purchase of a bicycle helmet.
(Code 2002, § 7-6-3)
Secs. 36-164—36-194. - Reserved.
ARTICLE VII. - ABANDONED VEHICLES

Sec. 36-195. - Title.
This article shall be known and referred to as the "City of Wrens Abandonment of Vehicles Regulation Ordinance."
(Code 2002, § 8-5-1)
Sec. 36-196. - Purpose.
In the city vehicles are or may be abandoned in the future in the streets and other places within the city. There are or may in the future be dismantled, partially dismantled, wrecked, junked, non-operating or discarded vehicles left about the city other than in junk yards or other appropriate places. Such conditions tend to impede traffic in the streets or interfere with the enjoyment of and reduce the value of private property; invite plundering; create fire hazards and other safety and health hazards to children as well as adults; and interfere with the comfort and general welfare of the public. This article is adopted for the physical and economic growth of the city as will best promote the public health, safety, morals, convenience, prosperity, and general welfare of the citizens of the city, and for the purpose of protecting the public. Adequate protection of the public health, safety and welfare requires that such conditions be regulated, abated or prohibited.
(Code 2002, § 8-5-2)
Sec. 36-197. - Definitions.
The following words, terms and phrases, when used in this article, shall have the meanings ascribed to them in this section, except where the context clearly indicates a different meaning:
Property means any real property within the city which is not a street or highway.
Street or highway means the entire width between the boundary lines of every way publicly maintained when any part thereof is open to the use of the public for purposes of vehicular travel.
Vehicle means a machine propelled by power other than by human power designed to travel along the ground by use of wheels, treads, runners or slides and transport persons or property or pull machinery and shall include, without limitation, automobile, truck, trailer, mobile home, motorcycle, tractor, buggy and wagon.
(Code 2002, § 8-5-3)
Sec. 36-198. - Abandonment of vehicles.
No person shall abandon any vehicle within the city and no person shall leave any vehicle at any place within the city for such time and under such circumstances as to cause such vehicle reasonably to appear to have been abandoned.
(Code 2002, § 8-5-4)
Sec. 36-199. - Leaving of wrecked, non-operating vehicle on street.
No person shall leave any partially dismantled, non-operating, wrecked or junked vehicle on any street or highway within the city.
(Code 2002, § 8-5-5)
Sec. 36-200. - Disposition of wrecked or discarded vehicles.
No person in charge or control of any property within the city, whether as owner, tenant, occupant, lessee, or otherwise, shall allow any partially dismantled, non-operating, wrecked, junked or discarded vehicle to remain on such property longer than 72 hours, except that this article shall not apply with regard to a vehicle in an enclosed building; a vehicle on the premises of a business enterprise operated in a lawful place and manner, when necessary to the operation of such business enterprise; or a vehicle in an appropriate storage place or depository maintained in a lawful place and manner by the city.
(Code 2002, § 8-5-6)
Sec. 36-201. - Impounding.
The chief of police or any duly designated officer of the city is hereby authorized to remove or have removed any vehicle left at any place within the city which reasonably appears to be in violation of this article or lost, stolen or unclaimed. Such vehicle shall be impounded until lawfully claimed or disposed of in accordance with O.C.G.A. § 40-11-1 et seq.
(Code 2002, § 8-5-7)
Sec. 36-202. - Penalties.
Each day a violation of this article is committed or permitted shall constitute a separate offense and shall be punishable as such.
(Code 2002, § 8-5-8)
