Chapter 30 - STREETS, SIDEWALKS AND OTHER PUBLIC PLACES[1]
Footnotes:
--- (1) ---
State Law reference— Municipal street systems, O.C.G.A. § 32-4-90 et seq.

ARTICLE I. - IN GENERAL

Sec. 30-1. - Permit to dig in streets—Generally.
No person, firm or corporation shall make any excavations or openings or dig any ditch, trench, tunnel or hole in, along, across or under any street, sidewalk or other public place for the purpose of laying or placing therein any pipe, wires, poles or for any other purposes, unless a written permit therefor has been issued by the city clerk. A permit shall not be required where the work is performed under a contract with the city, but in the event that work requires a sidewalk or street to be wholly or partially obstructed, the person shall notify the city clerk and the police department at least two hours before obstructing the sidewalk or street, unless prevented by sudden emergency.
(Code 2002, § 4-1-1)
Sec. 30-2. - Same—Application for permit.
All persons desiring a permit in order to make an opening in any street or sidewalk, as set forth in section 30-1, shall make written application therefore, which application shall show the location of the proposed opening, the purpose therefor and the approximate number of square yards of surface to be cut.
(Code 2002, § 4-1-2)
Sec. 30-3. - Same—City indemnified.
Any person, firm or corporation obtaining a permit, as provided for in sections 30-1 and 30-2, agrees, as a condition of the issuance of the permit, to indemnify and hold harmless the city against any claims or expenses, including attorney's fees for bodily injury or property damage, for accidents or occurrences arising out of the person's or corporation's operations.
(Code 2002, § 4-1-3)
Sec. 30-4. - Street repair.
When any part of any street, sidewalk, alley or other public place of the city shall be torn or dug up for any purpose, the person, firm or corporation making that excavation or opening shall have the duty of refilling the excavation or opening so as to restore it to essentially the same condition that existed prior to the excavation or opening. Any person, firm or corporation, neglecting, refusing or failing to comply with any provisions of this section shall be guilty of a violation thereof; and where any neglect, refusal or failure is continued, after notice from the city clerk, every day's continuance thereafter shall constitute a separate and distinct offense.
(Code 2002, § 4-1-4)
Sec. 30-5. - Excavations; leaving unprotected.
It shall be unlawful for any person, firm or corporation who obtains a permit under the sections of this chapter to do any excavation of any kind which may create or cause a dangerous condition in or near any street, alley, sidewalk or public place of the city without placing and maintaining proper guard rails and signal lights or other warnings at, in or around the work, sufficient to warn the public of any excavation or work, and to protect all persons using reasonable care from injuries on account of work.
(Code 2002, § 4-1-5)
Sec. 30-6. - Sidewalk construction.
No sidewalk of any description shall be built by any individual, firm or corporation, of any brick, concrete, wood or other material without a written permit from the city.
(Code 2002, § 4-1-6)
Sec. 30-7. - Streets and sidewalks not to be damaged.
It shall be unlawful for any person, firm or corporation to drag or run, or cause to be dragged or run any harrow or other implement, engine, machine or tool upon any asphalt, concrete, pavement or other type of permanently paved street or sidewalk of the city which shall be able to in any way injure or cut the surface thereof. It shall also be unlawful to injure any dirt street in the same manner.
(Code 2002, § 4-1-7)
Sec. 30-8. - Obstruction of view and use by trees and shrubs; notice.
(a)
No person owning, occupying or in any way controlling property in this city shall permit any tree, bush or shrub on the property to project over any street or sidewalk of this city so as to obstruct or interfere with the view and use of persons walking or riding in a vehicle on the street or sidewalk or of other persons or vehicles approaching from cross or intersecting streets.
(b)
It shall be unlawful for any person, whether the owner, tenant, agent or person controlling property in the city to fail to remove any tree, bush or other obstruction from the streets or sidewalks of this city following ten days notice by the city to perform such task.
(Code 2002, § 8-1-5)
Secs. 30-9—30-34. - Reserved.
ARTICLE II. - STREET SYSTEM PLAN

Sec. 30-35. - System shown on map.
There is hereby established an official system of street names in the city as shown on the database and map of the county E911 system, as produced by the county E911 office, a copy of which is incorporated into and made part of this article. A copy of said map shall be filed in the office of the city clerk.
(Code 2002, § 6-3-1)
Sec. 30-36. - Changes of names.
Names of streets in the city shall remain as shown on the map unless officially changed by specific ordinance.
(Code 2002, § 6-3-2)
Sec. 30-37. - New streets.
No new streets shall be accepted by the city nor shall municipal improvements be made thereon until such streets have been named; if they are extensions of existing streets, the existing names shall be continued; and if not extensions, names recorded shall not duplicate or closely approximate street names already assigned.
(Code 2002, § 6-3-3)
Sec. 30-38. - Uniform numbering system.
A uniform system of numbering properties and principal buildings, as shown on the map identified in section 30-35, is hereby adopted for use in the city. This map and all explanatory matters thereon are hereby incorporated into and made a part of this article.
(Code 2002, § 6-3-11)
Sec. 30-39. - Assignment of numbers.
(a)
All properties or parcels of land within the corporate limits of the city shall hereafter be identified by reference to the uniform numbering system adopted herein.
(b)
A separate number shall be assigned for each 20 feet of frontage in congested business areas and each 50 feet of frontage in other areas.
(c)
Each house or building shall bear the number assigned to the frontage on which the front entrance is located. In case a building is occupied by more than one business or family dwelling unit, each separate front entrance of such principal building shall bear a separate number.
(d)
Numerals indicating the official numbers for each house or building shall be posted in a manner as to be visible from the street on which the property is located. Such numerals may be obtained from the city clerk at cost or from private sources.
(Code 2002, § 6-3-12)
Sec. 30-40. - Administration.
(a)
The city clerk shall be responsible for maintaining the numbering system, but the planning commission or other designated authority shall approve the system in new subdivisions. In the performance of this responsibility the commission or authority shall be guided by the provisions of section 30-39.
(b)
The city clerk shall keep a record of all numbers assigned under this article.
(c)
The city clerk shall issue to any property owner in the city, upon request and at cost, a set of numerals for each building or separate front entrance to such building. In doing so, the clerk shall issue only numerals for the number assigned to such building under the provisions of this article; provided, however, that the clerk may issue additional numerals in accord with the official numbering system whenever a property has been subdivided, a new front entrance opened, or undue hardship has been worked on any property owner.
(Code 2002, § 6-3-13)
