Chapter 22 - MUNICIPAL COURT[1]

Footnotes:
--- (1) ---
State Law reference— City courts, O.C.G.A. § 15-8-1 et seq.; bonds, O.C.G.A. § 17-6-1 et seq.

Sec. 22-1. - Created; presiding officer.
(a)
There is hereby created a municipal court for the trial of the offenses and offenders against the laws and ordinances of the city. The municipal court shall be presided over by the municipal court judge. The municipal court judge shall be appointed by the mayor and council.
(b)
The judge's salary shall be fixed by the mayor and council, and the judge shall take such oath as may be prescribed by the mayor and council. The judge shall be subject to removal, with or without any stated cause, upon a majority vote by the mayor and council.
(c)
The mayor and council shall have the power and authority to provide for the appointment of an associate municipal judge to serve in the absence or disability of the municipal court judge, and to provide such salary and/or remuneration as they deem appropriate.
(d)
Any vacancy in the office of the municipal court judge by reason of death, resignation, removal or other reason shall be filled by appointment of the mayor and council. In his disqualification or absence, the associate municipal court judge may hold the court, and may exercise all the powers conferred by law or this chapter upon the judge.
Sec. 22-2. - Warrants; form, scope, execution; judge's authority to hear evidence, grant bond.
(a)
The judge shall be authorized to issue warrants for any offense under any law or ordinance of the city or this state and when the offense is against state laws and not covered by municipal law or ordinance, may hear evidence and commit to jail or take bond for appearance before the grand jury or a state court having jurisdiction to try the same. If the offense charged in the warrant to be one against any law or ordinance of the city, the arresting officer shall carry the same before the municipal court, where same shall be disposed of as other cases of arrest not under warrant.
(b)
All warrants issued by the judge, or the municipal court, shall be directed to the "Chief of Police of the City of Wrens, any policeman or marshal thereof, and to all and singular the sheriffs, deputy sheriffs, and constables of the State of Georgia," and any one of said officers shall have the authority to execute warrants.
(c)
The municipal court judge or associate municipal judge shall have the right and authority to sign all warrants, summonses, receipts, executions or other processes, which the judge of the municipal court has authority to sign, when the judge of the municipal court is absent, incapacitated, or in any way unavailable, provided such warrants, summonses, receipts, executions, or other processes are returnable only to the judge of the municipal court.
Sec. 22-3. - Witnesses.
The judge or any officer of the municipal court authorized by ordinance shall have power and authority to subpoena witnesses to attend the municipal court, under the same rules and regulations that regulate and govern the superior courts of this state, to compel attendance, and to punish any witness who has been duly subpoenaed and fails to attend, under the provisions heretofore, provided for contempt.
Sec. 22-4. - Ministerial officers; attendances, duties.
The ministerial officers of the municipal court shall be the police officers of the city to whom all means and final processes shall be directed. Officers of a sufficient number shall attend the sessions of the court for the purpose of executing the orders of said court, and shall do and perform such duties connected with the court as may be required of them.
