Chapter 1 - GENERAL PROVISIONS[1]

Footnotes:
--- (1) ---
State Law reference— Authority of municipality to adopt ordinances, resolutions or regulations, O.C.G.A. § 36-35-3.

Sec. 1-1. - Designation and citation of Code.
The ordinances embraced in the following chapters and sections shall constitute and be designated "The Code of the City of Wrens, Georgia," and may be so cited. This Code may also be cited as the "Wrens City Code."
(Code 2002, § 1-1-1)
Sec. 1-2. - Definitions and rules of construction.
The following definitions and rules shall apply to all ordinances of the mayor and council, unless the context requires otherwise:
Generally. The ordinary signification shall be applied to all words, except words of art, or words connected with a particular trade or subject matter, when they shall have the signification attached to them by experts in such trade, or with reference to such subject matter. In all interpolations the courts shall look diligently for the intention of the mayor and council, keeping in view, at all times, the old law, the evil and the remedy. Grammatical errors shall not vitiate, and a transposition of words and clauses may be resorted to when the sentence or clause is without meaning as it stands. While this Code is a codification of general ordinances and the city's unified development ordinance (UDO) is separate from this Code and pertains to land development, provisions in this Code may also apply to land development and provisions in the UDO may also apply to activities other than land development. The failure to include in the UDO provisions that relate to land development does not excuse noncompliance with such provisions. The inclusion in the UDO of provisions that relate to activities other than land development does not excuse noncompliance with such provisions.
Liberal construction; minimum requirements; overlapping provisions. All general provisions, terms, phrases and expressions contained in this Code shall be liberally construed in order that the true intent and meaning of the mayor and council may be fully carried out. In the interpretation and application of any provision of this Code, they shall be held to be the minimum requirements adopted for the promotion of the public health, safety, comfort, convenience and general welfare. Where any provision of this Code imposes greater restrictions upon the subject matter than the other provisions of this Code, the provision imposing the greater restriction or regulation shall be deemed to be controlling.
Adequate. The term "adequate" means equal to what is required, suitable to the case or occasion, fully sufficient, proportionate or satisfactory.
Aforesaid. The term "aforesaid" usually means next before.
All. The term "all" means everyone, or the whole number of particulars.
Also. The term "also" means "in like manner," "likewise," "in addition," "besides," "as well," "further," and "too."
As soon as possible. The term "as soon as possible" means within a reasonable time, having due regard to all the circumstances.
At. The term "at" may mean "in," "near," "within," or "about." Its primary idea is nearness, and it is less definite than "in" or "on."
City. The term "the city" or "this city" means the City of Wrens, Georgia.
Code. The term "Code" means the Code of the City of Wrens, Georgia, as designated in section 1-1.
Computation of time. When a period of time measured in days, weeks, months, years, or other measurements of time except hours is prescribed for the exercise of any privilege or the discharge of any duty, the first day shall not be counted but the last day shall be counted; and, if the last day falls on Saturday or Sunday, the party having such privilege or duty shall have through the following Monday to exercise the privilege or to discharge the duty. When the last day prescribed for such action falls on a public and legal holiday as set forth in O.C.G.A. § 1-4-1, the party having the privilege or duty shall have through the next business day to exercise the privilege or to discharge the duty. When the period of time prescribed is less than seven days, intermediate Saturdays, Sundays, and legal holidays shall be excluded in the computation
Conjunctions. In a provision involving two or more items, conditions, provisions or events, which items, conditions, provisions or events are connected by the conjunction "and," "or" or "either … or," the conjunction shall be interpreted as follows, except that in appropriate cases the terms "and" and "or" are interchangeable:
(1)
"And" indicates that all the connected terms, conditions, provisions or events apply.
(2)
"Or" indicates that the connected terms, conditions, provisions or events apply singly or in any combination.
(3)
"Either … or" indicates that the connected terms, conditions, provisions or events apply singly but not in combination.
Council. Wherever the term "council" is used, the same shall be held to mean the "council of the City of Wrens."
County. The term "the county" or "this county" means Jefferson County, Georgia.
Delegation of authority. Whenever a provision appears requiring a city officer or city employee to do some act, it is to be construed to authorize the officer or employee to designate, delegate and authorize subordinates to perform the act.
Easement. The term "easement" means a right, liberty, privilege or advantage without profit which the owner of one parcel of land may have in the lands of another; or a right in the owner of one parcel of land, by reason of such ownership, to use the land of another for a special purpose not inconsistent with a general property right in the owner.
Following. The term "following" means next after.
Gender. The masculine gender includes the feminine and the neuter.
Highway. The term "highway" includes any street, alley, highway, avenue or public place or square, bridge, viaduct, tunnel, underpass, overpass and causeway in the city, dedicated or devoted to public use.
Joint authority. A joint authority given to any number of persons or officers may be executed by a majority of them, unless it is otherwise declared.
Keeper and proprietor. The terms "keeper" and "proprietor" mean and include persons acting by themselves or as a servant, agent or employee.
Land and real estate. The terms "land" and "real estate" include rights and easements of an incorporeal nature.
May. The term "may" is to be construed as being permissive.
Mayor. The term "mayor" means the mayor of the city.
Month. The term "month" means a calendar month.
Municipality. The term "municipality" means the City of Wrens, Georgia.
Must. The term "must" is to be construed as being mandatory.
Number. The singular and plural number shall include the other, unless expressly excluded.
Oath. The term "oath" includes an affirmation.
O.C.G.A. The term "O.C.G.A." means the Official Code of Georgia Annotated, as amended.
Official time standard. Whenever certain hours are named herein, they shall mean standard time or daylight saving time as may be in current use in the city.
Officials, employees, boards, commissions, etc. Reference to officials, employees, boards, commissions or other agencies of the city by title only refers to the officials, employees, boards, commissions or other agencies of the city.
Or, and. The term "or" may be read "and," and the term "and" may be read "or," if the sense requires it.
Owner. The term "owner," applied to a building or land, includes any part owner, joint owner, tenant in common, tenant in partnership, joint tenant or tenant by the entirety, of the whole or of a part of such building or land.
Person. The term "person" shall extend and be applied to associations, corporations, firms, partnerships and bodies politic and corporate as well as individuals.
Personal property. The term "personal property" includes every species of property except real property, as herein defined.
Preceding. The term "preceding" means next before.
Property. The term "property" includes real and personal property.
Public place. The term "public place" includes any place that the public is invited or permitted to go or congregate.
Real property. The term "real property" includes lands, tenements and hereditaments.
Shall. The term "shall" is to be construed as mandatory.
Sidewalk. The term "sidewalk" means any portion of a street between the curbline and the adjacent property line, intended for the use of pedestrians, excluding parkways.
Signature or subscription. The term "signature" or "subscription" includes a mark of an illiterate or infirm person.
State. The term "state" means the State of Georgia.
Street, road. The term "street" or "road" includes any street, avenue, boulevard, road, alley, lane, viaduct and any other public highway in the city, including, but not limited to, the paved or improved surfaces thereof.
Tenant or occupant. The term "tenant" or "occupant," applied to a building or land, includes any person holding a written or oral lease of, or who occupies, the whole or a part of such building or land, either alone or with others.
Tense. Words used in the past or present tense include the future as well as the past and present.
Time. Words used in the past or present tense include the future as well as the past and present.
Until a certain day. The term "until a certain day" includes all of such day.
Week. The term "week" means seven days.
Whereas. The term "whereas" means "considering that."
Will. The term "will" is to be construed as being mandatory.
Writing. The term "writing" includes printing and all numerals.
Year. The term "year" means a calendar year.
(Code 2002, § 1-1-2)
State Law reference— Definitions and rules of construction, O.C.G.A. § 1-3-1 et seq.
Sec. 1-3. - Catchlines of sections; history notes; editor's notes; references.
(a)
The catchlines of the several sections of this Code printed in boldface type are intended as mere catchwords to indicate the contents of the section and shall not be deemed or taken to be titles of such sections, nor as any part of such sections, nor, unless expressly so provided, shall they be so deemed when any of such sections, including the catchlines, are amended or reenacted.
(b)
The history or source notes appearing in parentheses after sections in this Code are not intended to have any legal effect but are merely intended to indicate the source of matter contained in the section. Cross references, state enabling legislation references, state law references and editor's notes which appear after sections or subsections of this Code or which otherwise appear in footnote form are provided for the convenience of the user of this Code and have no legal effect.
(c)
All references to chapters, articles or sections are to the chapters, articles and sections of this Code unless otherwise specified.
(Code 2002, § 1-1-3)
State Law reference— Notes and catchlines of code sections not part of law, O.C.G.A. § 1-1-7.
Sec. 1-4. - Territorial applicability.
(a)
Except as specifically provided otherwise, this Code only applies in the incorporated areas of the city.
(b)
Where the city provides utility or other service to an outside the incorporated area of the city, the ordinances relating to such service apply in that area outside such incorporated area.
Sec. 1-5. - Effective date of ordinances and resolutions.
Except as otherwise provided by law, ordinances and resolutions which do not provide for their taking effect at a different time take effect immediately upon adoption.
Sec. 1-6. - Altering Code.
It shall be unlawful for any person to change or amend, by additions or deletions, any part or portion of this Code, or to insert or delete pages or portions thereof, or to alter or tamper with this Code in any manner, except by ordinance or other official act of the mayor and council, which will cause the law of the city to be misrepresented thereby. Any person violating this section shall be punished as provided in section 1-9.
(Code 2002, § 1-1-7)
Sec. 1-7. - Amendments; effect of new ordinances; amendatory language.
(a)
All ordinances passed subsequent to the adoption of this Code which amend, repeal or in any way affect this Code may be numbered in accordance with the numbering system of this Code and printed for inclusion herein, or in the case of repealed chapters, sections and subsections or any part thereof, by subsequent ordinances, such repealed portions may be excluded from the Code by omission from reprinted pages affected thereby, and the subsequent ordinances as numbered and printed or omitted, in the case of repeal, shall be prima facie evidence of such subsequent ordinances until such time that this Code and subsequent ordinances numbered or omitted are readopted as a new code of ordinances by the mayor and council.
(b)
Every proposed ordinance shall be read twice, once at each of two distinct meetings of the mayor and council, except that both the first and second readings thereof shall be done by reading the caption thereof only, unless, upon motion and a majority vote of the mayor and council, the mayor and council request the reading of the proposed ordinance in its entirety; provided, however, that the mayor and council may provide that the proposed ordinance be read in its entirety at only the first or second reading thereof; further provided, that at any reading of a proposed ordinance, the mayor or other presiding officer may require that a synopsis be given of the proposed ordinance, either before or after the reading thereof. In case of emergency, an ordinance may be read twice by unanimous consent at the same session and passed. The reading of a proposed ordinance, in the event of such emergency, shall be done in the same manner as other proposed ordinances, in accordance with the provisions of this section.
(c)
Amendments to any of the provisions of this Code should be made by amending such provisions by specific reference to the section of this Code in substantially the following language: "That section ___ of the Code of the City of Wrens, Georgia, is hereby amended to read as follows:…." The new provisions shall then be set out in full as desired.
(d)
In the event a new section not heretofore existing in the Code is to be added, the following language may be used: "That the Code of the City of Wrens, Georgia, is hereby amended by adding a section (or article, chapter or other designation as the case may be), to be numbered ___, which reads as follows:…." The new provisions shall then be set out in full as desired.
(e)
All sections, articles, chapters or other provisions of this Code desired to be repealed should be specifically repealed by section number, article number, chapter or other number, as the case may be.
Sec. 1-8. - Supplementation of Code.
(a)
By contract or by city personnel, supplements to this Code shall be prepared and printed whenever authorized or directed by the mayor and city council. A supplement to the Code shall include all substantive permanent and general parts of ordinances passed by the mayor and city council or adopted by initiative and referendum during the period covered by the supplement and all changes made thereby in the Code, and shall also include all amendments to the Charter during the period. The pages of a supplement shall be so numbered that they will fit properly into the Code and will, where necessary, replace pages which have become obsolete or partially obsolete, and the new pages shall be so prepared that, when they have been inserted, the Code will be current through the date of the adoption of the latest ordinance included in the supplement.
(b)
In preparing a supplement to this Code, all portions of the Code which have been repealed shall be excluded from the Code by the omission thereof from reprinted pages.
(c)
When preparing a supplement to this Code, the codifier (meaning the person, agency or organization authorized to prepare the supplement) may make formal, nonsubstantive changes in ordinances and parts of ordinances included in the supplement, insofar as it is necessary to do so to embody them into a unified Code. For example, the codifier may:
(1)
Organize the ordinance material into appropriate subdivisions;
(2)
Provide appropriate catchlines, headings and titles for sections and other subdivisions of the Code printed in the supplement, and make changes in such catchlines, headings and titles;
(3)
Assign appropriate numbers to sections and other subdivisions to be inserted in the Code and, where necessary to accommodate new material, change existing section or other subdivision numbers;
(4)
Change the words "this ordinance" or words of the same meaning to "this chapter," "this article," "this division," etc., as the case may be, or to "sections ___ to ___" (inserting section numbers to indicate the sections of the Code which embody the substantive sections of the ordinance incorporated into the Code); and
(5)
Make other nonsubstantive changes necessary to preserve the original meaning of ordinance sections inserted into the Code; but, in no case, shall the codifier make any change in the meaning or effect of ordinance material included in the supplement or already embodied in the Code.
Sec. 1-9. - General penalty; continuing violations.
(a)
In this section, the term "violation of this Code" means:
(1)
Doing an act that is prohibited or made or declared unlawful, an offense or a misdemeanor by ordinance or by rule or regulation authorized by ordinance;
(2)
Failure to perform an act that is required to be performed by ordinance or by rule or regulation authorized by ordinance; or
(3)
Failure to perform an act if the failure is declared a misdemeanor or an offense or unlawful by ordinance or by rule or regulation authorized by ordinance.
(b)
In this section, the term "violation of this Code" does not include the failure of a city officer or city employee to perform an official duty unless it is provided that failure to perform the duty is to be punished as provided in this section.
(c)
Except as otherwise provided, a person convicted of a violation of this Code shall be punished by a fine not to exceed $500.00 and/or imprisonment for a term not exceeding 180 days and/or work on the public streets or public works of the city for a term not exceeding 60 days subject to all limitations contained in the Charter of the city. Each day any violation of this Code or of any ordinance shall continue shall constitute a separate offense.
(d)
The imposition of a fine or penalty does not prevent revocation or suspension of a license, permit or franchise.
(e)
Violations of this Code that are continuous with respect to time are a nuisance and may be abated by injunctive or other equitable relief. The imposition of a fine or penalty does not prevent equitable relief.
(Code 2002, § 1-1-5; Ord. No. 2021-007-001 , § 2, 7-6-2021)
State Law reference— Sentences and fines which may be imposed, O.C.G.A. § 36-32-5.
Sec. 1-10. - Effect of repeal of ordinances.
(a)
The repeal of an ordinance shall not revive any ordinance in force before or at the time the ordinance repealed took effect.
(b)
The repeal of an ordinance shall not affect any punishment or penalty incurred before the repeal took effect, nor any suit, prosecution or proceeding pending at the time of the repeal, for an offense committed under the ordinance repealed.
(Code 2002, § 1-1-6)
Sec. 1-11. - Severability of parts of Code.
It is hereby declared to be the intention of the mayor and council that the sections, paragraphs, sentences, clauses and phrases of this Code are severable, and if any phrase, clause, sentence, paragraph or section of this Code shall be declared unconstitutional by the valid judgment or decree of any court of competent jurisdiction, such unconstitutionality shall not affect any of the remaining phrases, clauses, sentences, paragraphs and sections of this Code, since the same would have been enacted by the mayor and council without the incorporation in this Code of any such unconstitutional phrase, clause, sentence, paragraph or section.
(Code 2002, § 1-1-4)
Sec. 1-12. - Provisions considered as continuations of existing legislation.
The provisions appearing in this Code, so far as they are the same as those of ordinances and resolutions existing as of the effective date of this Code, shall be considered as continuations thereof and not as new enactments.
Sec. 1-13. - Matters not affected by Code.
Nothing in this Code or the ordinance adopting this Code shall affect any of the following ordinances not codified in this Code:
(1)
Any offense or act committed or done or any penalty or forfeiture incurred or any contract or right established or accruing before the effective date of this Code.
(2)
Any ordinance promising or guaranteeing the payment of money for the city, or authorizing the issuance of any bonds for the city, or any evidence of the city's indebtedness, or any contract or obligation assumed by the city.
(3)
Any appropriation ordinance.
(4)
Any ordinance approving the budget.
(5)
Any ordinance fixing salaries of officers or employees of the city.
(6)
Any right or franchise granted by the city to any person.
(7)
Any ordinance dedicating, naming, defining, establishing, locating, relocating, opening, paving, widening, vacating, etc., any street or public way in the city.
(8)
Any ordinances or resolutions prescribing traffic regulations for specific streets.
(9)
Any legislation providing for local improvements or assessing taxes therefor.
(10)
Any ordinance dedicating or accepting any plat or subdivision in the city.
(11)
Any ordinance rezoning property or otherwise pertaining to zoning.
(12)
Any ordinance adopting or amending the City of Wrens Unified Development Ordinance, as adopted December 20, 2007.
(13)
Any ordinance adopting or amending the city personnel policy.
(14)
Any ordinance pertaining to the annexation of property.
(15)
Any ordinance adopted for purposes that have been consummated.
(16)
Any ordinance that is temporary, although general in nature.
(17)
Any ordinance that is special, although permanent in nature.
(18)
Any ordinance levying or otherwise relating to taxes.
(19)
Any ordinance amending any act enacted by the general assembly of the state.
Sec. 1-14. - Code does not affect prior offenses, penalties, rights.
(a)
Nothing in this Code or the ordinance adopting this Code shall affect any offense or act committed or done, or any penalty or forfeiture incurred, or any contract or right established or accruing before the effective date of this Code.
(b)
The adoption of this Code shall not be interpreted as authorizing or permitting any use or the continuance of any use of a structure or premises in violation of any ordinance in effect on the date of adoption of this Code.
