ARTICLE IX. - GENERAL PROVISIONS

Sec. 9-1. - Bonds for officials.
The officers and employees of this city, both elected and appointed, shall execute such surety or fidelity bonds in such amounts and upon such terms and conditions as the city council shall from time to time require by ordinance or as may be provided by law.
Sec. 9-2. - Existing ordinances, resolutions, rules, and regulations.
All ordinances, resolutions, rules, and regulations now in force in the city, not inconsistent with this Charter, are declared valid and of full effect and force until amended or repealed by the city council.
Sec. 9-3. - First election under this Charter.
The first municipal election shall be the first Tuesday in November in 2003 at which time the appropriate council seats as designated in section 2-3 of this Charter shall be elected. All persons giving notice of candidacy for a city council seat shall designate the post being sought. Future elections to post positions shall be conducted as is provided by this Charter.
Sec. 9-4. - Existing personnel and officers.
Except as specifically provided otherwise by this Charter, all personnel and officers of the city and their rights, privileges, and powers shall continue beyond the time this Charter takes effect as if the personnel and officers were appointed, hired, or elected under this Charter.
Sec. 9-5. - Pending matters.
Except as specifically provided otherwise by this Charter, all rights, claims, actions, orders, contracts, and legal or administrative proceedings shall continue and any such ongoing work or cases shall be completed by such city agencies, personnel, or offices as may be provided by the city council.
Sec. 9-6. - Construction.
(a)
Section captions in this Charter are information only and are not to be considered as part thereof.
(b)
The word "shall" is mandatory and the word "may" is permissive.
(c)
The singular shall include the plural, the masculine shall include the feminine, and vice versa.
(d)
The term "gender" shall be interpreted as a word importing the masculine gender only and shall extend and be applied to females and to firms, partnerships, and corporations as well as to males or any other legal entity under federal or state law.
Sec. 9-7. - Severability.
If any article, section, subsection, paragraph, sentence, or part hereof of this Charter shall be held to be invalid or unconstitutional, such invalidity or unconstitutionally shall not affect or impair other parts of this Charter unless it clearly appears that such other parts are wholly and necessarily dependent upon the part held to be invalid or unconstitutional, it being the legislative intent in enacting this Charter that each article, section, subsection, paragraph, sentence, or part thereof be enacted separately and independent of each other.
Sec. 9-8. - Specific repealer.
An Act incorporating the City of Brooklet in the County of Bulloch, approved August 21, 1906 (Ga. L. 1906, p. 548), is repealed in its entirety and all amendatory acts thereto are likewise repealed in their entirety. All other laws and parts of laws in conflict with this Charter are repealed.
Sec. 9-9. - Effective date.
This Charter shall become effective upon its approval by the Governor or upon its becoming law without such approval.
Sec. 9-10. - General repealer.
All other laws and parts of laws in conflict with this Act are repealed.
