ARTICLE VIII. - STREETS, SIDEWALKS, PUBLIC PLACES, AND RAILROADS

Sec. 8-1. - General authority over streets, lanes, sideways, and public places.
The mayor and city council shall have full and complete power and authority over all the streets, lanes, alleys, sidewalks, crossings, parks, and public lands of the city. They shall have full and complete power and authority to manage, control, direct, work, grade, drain, and pave the same, or cause the same to be done. They shall have full and complete power and authority to remove or cause to be removed any building, stall, booth, tent, steps, gate, fence, post, wire, pole, or other obstruction or nuisance thereon; and if the owner of the same shall fail or refuse to remove the same within such reasonable time as may be fixed by the mayor and city council, after notice thereto served upon such owner or his or her agent or tenant in charge, then the city authorities may remove the same at the owner's expense, and execution shall issue against the owner for the expenses thereof, which owner shall be also subject to punishment for maintaining a nuisance. They shall have full and complete power and authority to regulate, lay out, open, grade, drain, and control new streets, lanes, alleys, crossings, and sidewalks whenever, in their discretion, it may be necessary or proper to do so. They shall have full and complete power and authority to condemn property and exercise the right of eminent domain for the purpose of laying out and opening new streets, lanes, alleys, and sidewalks and for extending, widening, straightening, grading, draining, or in any manner whatever changing the grade, street lines, and sidewalks of the city. Whenever the mayor and city council shall desire to exercise the power and authority granted in this section, they may do so whenever the land to be condemned is in the hands of an owner, trustee, executor, administrator, guardian, agent, or other fiduciary in the manner provided by article IV, section II, paragraph V of the Constitution of the State of Georgia and code section 22-1-1 et seq., of the O.C.G.A. [(O.C.G.A. ยง 22-1-1 et seq.)]
Sec. 8-2. - Authority to vacate, close, or abandon streets or alleys to sell or alienate same.
The mayor and city council are given the authority to vacate, close, or abandon certain streets or alleys, or both, when in the opinion of the mayor and city council the vacating, closing, or abandonment of the streets or alleys will not inconvenience the general public. The mayor and city council are given the right to sell or alienate streets or alleys or both and to give a title thereto as in other cases of sales of municipal property.
Sec. 8-3. - Bonds for street improvements.
The mayor and city council shall have power and authority to issue bonds for the purpose of street improvements including, but not limited to, paving in accordance with the constitution and general laws of the State of Georgia.
