Part 6 - FIRE REGULATIONS
Sections:

19.04.1010 - Fire equipment requirements.
A.
Adequate and readily accessible fire extinguishers shall be provided by lessees, and maintained in proper working order. Each fire extinguisher shall carry a suitable tab showing date of most recent inspection.
B.
Use of any fire equipment, no matter how trivial, shall be reported to the director immediately after use.
(Ord. 9979 Art. 6 § 101, 1970.)
19.04.1020 - Smoking and open-flame operations.
A.
Smoking or lighting of open flames shall be prohibited in the following locations:
1.
Places with posted "no smoking" signs;
2.
On ramps or aprons;
3.
Within 50 feet of fuel trucks or fuel-loading stations.
B.
Persons shall not be permitted to conduct any open-flame operations in any building, or part thereof, except those specifically rented for repair-shop purposes, unless specifically authorized by the director.
C.
Open flames, unprotected lightbulbs, blowtorches, heaters, welding, or other causes of fire or sources of sparks shall not be permitted within a distance of 100 feet while any fuel filling or draining operations are being conducted, or at any distance where ignition of fuel vapor is possible.
(Ord. 9979 Art. 6 § 102, 1970.)
19.04.1030 - Flammable materials—Use restrictions.
A.
No person shall keep, store, use or discard any flammable liquids, gases, signal flares or other similar material in hangars or in any building on any airport; however, such materials may be kept in aircraft in the proper receptacles installed in the aircraft for such purpose, or in rooms or areas specifically approved for such storage by the director.
B.
No cylinder or flask of compressed flammable gas shall be kept or stored except at such place as may be designated by the director.
C.
No gasoline shall be stored aboveground or brought upon the premises of an airport except by persons duly authorized by the director.
D.
Extreme caution shall be observed in handling paints, thinners and other flammable substances.
E.
The process of fabric preparation or painting shall not be carried on in any hangar or building other than those specifically approved for the purpose.
F.
No aircraft shall be fueled or drained while in a hangar or other enclosed place. Fueling shall be done in such a manner and with such equipment that adequate connections for the grounding at a point of zero electrical potential shall be continuously maintained during such times.
G.
No person shall use flammable volatile liquids in cleaning operations unless such cleaning operations are conducted in open air and 50 feet or more away from any other airplane, equipment or building.
H.
Aircraft or aircraft engines shall not be cleaned or degreased unless such operations are done in maintenance areas properly equipped to handle such works, or in a space designated for such purpose by the director.
(Ord. 9979 Art. 6 § 103, 1970.)
19.04.1040 - Cleanliness of premises and equipment.
A.
Hangars and building space shall be kept clean inside and out.
B.
Hangar floors, gasoline pits and trucks shall be kept clean and free of excess gasoline, grease and other flammable liquids, solids or gases.
C.
Floors shall be kept clean and free of oil, and no volatile or flammable solvent shall be used for cleaning floors.
(Ord. 9979 Art. 6 § 104, 1970.)
19.04.1050 - Flammable rags and waste.
A.
Lessees of hangars or other airport areas shall provide suitable metal receptacles for the storage of oily waste, rags and other rubbish. All such waste or rubbish shall be removed by the lessee at frequent intervals. In garages, shops or other buildings operated or maintained by the airport, the above and other rules prescribed by the director shall be observed by employees on the airport engaged in operation or maintenance of such garages, shops or other buildings.
B.
Boxes, crates, rubbish, paper or other litter shall not be permitted to accumulate in or about any hangar, and all oil, paint, varnish cans, bottles or other containers shall be removed from the hangar immediately upon being emptied.
C.
Any spilled gasoline in enclosures shall be wiped up immediately. The cleaning rags shall be disposed of promptly and the space ventilated.
(Ord. 9979 Art. 6 § 105, 1970.)
19.04.1060 - Operations involving fire hazards.
When any operation involving fire hazard not specifically covered by any regulation contained in this chapter constitutes an unsafe practice, in the opinion of the director, the operator shall cease such operation immediately upon notice.
(Ord. 9979 Art. 6 § 106, 1970.)
