108 - APPEALS
108.1 - Appeals process.
When an applicant seeking an approval from the fire code official disagrees with the decision of the fire code official regarding the conditions, methods of construction, equipment, or operations regulated by this code, the applicant may file a written appeal to the assistant fire chief of the fire prevention division (fire marshal) pursuant to Section 108.2 of this code. A written appeal must be submitted no later than thirty (30) days after the applicant has notice of the decision being appealed. The fire marshal, after considering all the facts presented, including any communication from the general public regarding the matter appealed, shall provide a written decision responding to the appeal.
If the applicant is not satisfied with the decision of the fire marshal, the applicant shall, within 10 days of receipt of the fire marshal's decision, request in writing that the decision be reviewed by a fire code appeals review panel, a three-person panel consisting of the following individuals: the deputy chief of prevention, the deputy chief of operations, and the County's superintendant of building. The fire code appeals review panel shall transmit its written decision on the appeal to the applicant. The fire code appeals review panel shall be the final authority in the appeals process.
(Ord. 2010-0060 § 27, 2010.)
108.2 - Limitations on authority.
An applicant's appeal shall be based on a claim that the intent of this code or the regulations adopted hereunder have been incorrectly interpreted, that the provisions of this code do not apply, or that an equivalent method of protection or safety was proposed by the applicant and was denied by the fire code official. The appeals process shall not be used to waive requirements of this code.
For an appeal regarding fuel modification plan requirements, an applicant must use the appeals process as per Section 4908.2.
(Ord. 2010-0060 § 28, 2010.)
108.3 - Qualifications.
The fire code appeals review panel shall consist of the deputy chief of prevention, the deputy chief of operations, and the County's superintendant of building.
(Ord. 2010-0060 § 29, 2010.)
109.3 - Violation penalties.
Persons who shall violate a provision of this code or shall fail to comply with any of the requirements thereof, or who shall erect, install, alter, repair, or do work in violation of the approved construction documents or directive of the fire code official, or of a permit or certificate used under provisions of this code, shall be guilty of a misdemeanor unless such violation is declared to be an infraction by Chapter 51 of this code, punishable by a fine of not more than $1000 or by imprisonment not exceeding six months, or both such fine and imprisonment. Each day that a violation continues after due notice has been served shall be deemed a separate offense. For the purposes of this section, a forfeiture of bail shall be equivalent to a conviction.
(Ord. 2010-0060 § 30, 2010.)
109.3.1 - Abatement of violation.
In addition to the imposition of penalties herein described, the fire code official is authorized to institute appropriate action to prevent unlawful construction or to restrain, correct or abate a violation; or to prevent illegal occupancy of a structure or premises; or to stop an illegal act, conduct of business or occupancy of a structure on or about any premises.
The owner of any parcel upon which a nuisance is found to exist may, as provided for by state, County, and local law, be liable for all costs of abatement of the nuisance.
(Ord. 2010-0060 § 31, 2010.)
109.4 - Responsibility for fire suppression and related costs.
Any person: (1) who negligently, or in violation of the law, sets a fire, allows a fire to be set, or allows a fire kindled or attended by him to escape onto any public or private property, (2) other than a mortgagee, who, being in actual possession of a structure, fails or refuses to correct, within the time allotted for correction, despite having the right to do so, a fire hazard prohibited by law, for which a public agency properly has issued a notice of violation respecting the hazard, or (3) including a mortgagee, who, having an obligation under other provisions of law to correct a fire hazard prohibited by law, for which a public agency has properly issued a notice of violation respecting the hazard, fails or refuses to correct the hazard within the time allotted for correction, despite having the right to do so, is liable for the fire suppression costs incurred in fighting the fire, for the cost of providing rescue or emergency medical services, for the cost of investigating and making any reports with respect to the fire, and for the costs relating to accounting for that fire and the collection of any funds pursuant to state or local law, including, but not limited to administrative costs of operating a fire suppression cost recovery program to the fullest extent authorized by law. All of these costs shall be a charge against that person, shall constitute a debt of that person, and is collectible by the person, or by the federal, state, County, public, or private agency, incurring those costs in the same manner as in the case of an obligation under a contract, expressed or implied.
(Ord. 2010-0060 § 32, 2010.)
109.4.1 - Responsibility for costs for emergency response related to hazardous substances.
All expenses of an emergency response necessary to protect the public from a real and imminent threat to health and safety by a public agency to confine, prevent, or mitigate the release, escape, or burning of hazardous substances are a charge against any person whose negligence causes the incident to the fullest extent authorized by law, if either of the following occurs:
(a)
Evacuation beyond the property where the incident originates is necessary to prevent loss of life or injury.
(b)
The incident results in the spread of hazardous substances or fire posing a real and imminent threat to public health and safety beyond the property of origin.
Expenses reimbursable to the County or Fire District pursuant to this section are a debt of the person liable therefore, and shall be collectible in the same manner as in the case of an obligation under contract, express or implied. The charge created against the person related to hazardous substances by this section is also a charge against the person's employer if the negligence causing the incident occurs in the course of the person's employment.
(Ord. 2010-0060 § 33, 2010.)
110.1.1 - Unsafe conditions.
Structures or existing equipment that are or hereafter become unsafe or deficient because of inadequate means of egress or which constitute a fire hazard, or are otherwise dangerous to human life or the public welfare, or which involve illegal or improper occupancy or inadequate maintenance, dilapidation, obsolescence, hazardous material contamination, disaster damage, or abandonment as specified in this code shall be deemed an unsafe condition. A vacant structure which is not secured against unauthorized entry as required by Section 311 shall be deemed unsafe.
(Ord. 2010-0060 § 34, 2010.)
111.1 - Order.
Whenever the fire code official finds any work regulated by this code being performed in a manner contrary to the provisions of this code or in a dangerous or unsafe manner, the fire code official is authorized to issue a stop work order. The fire code official is authorized to order the work, the operation, or the use stopped or the evacuation of any premises, building, or vehicle or portion thereof which has or is a condition hazardous to life or property.
(Ord. 2010-0060 § 35, 2010.)
111.4 - Failure to comply.
Any person who shall continue any work after having been served with a stop work order, except such work as that person is directed to perform to remove a violation or unsafe condition, shall be liable for administrative fines and other prosecution as allowed by Title 1, Section 1.25 of the County Code or other applicable laws or regulations.
(Ord. 2010-0060 § 36, 2010.)
