Chapter 3.76 - WORKFORCE INVESTMENT BOARD
Sections:

3.76.010 - Continued.
There is hereby continued the workforce investment board, hereinafter referred to in this chapter as the "WIB." The WIB was established by the board of supervisors pursuant to the Workforce Investment Act for all the purposes authorized therein.
(Ord. 2003-0014 ยง 1 (part), 2003.)
3.76.020 - Composition and terms of service.
A.
The WIB shall have at least 39, and no more than 51 members, all of whom shall be appointed by the board of supervisors.
B.
Three members shall be directly nominated by each supervisor and appointed by the board of supervisors, and these 15 directly nominated members shall serve terms of three years from date of appointment by the board of supervisors.
C.
The remaining members shall be appointed in accordance with the requirements of the Workforce Investment Act, and shall be nominated by various entities as specified therein. At or before the conclusion of the terms of any WIB directors, the department of community and senior services of Los Angeles County shall present a list of nominees who have been nominated in accordance with the provisions of the Workforce Investment Act, and approved by the WIB for consideration by the board of supervisors. Representatives of businesses may be nominated by any local business organization or business trade association and may be included on the list presented by the department of community and senior services.
D.
The remaining members not directly nominated by the board of supervisors shall serve terms of one or two years, as set by the board of supervisors at the time of appointment.
E.
Each member of the WIB, during his or her term, shall serve at the pleasure of the board of supervisors. Each member of the WIB whose term has expired shall continue to exercise the powers and duties of the position until a successor is appointed.
(Ord. 2003-0014 ยง 1 (part), 2003.)
3.76.030 - Vacancies.
A.
A member's position on the WIB shall become vacant upon his or her death, resignation, by operation of law, or upon removal by the board of supervisors, which removal may occur either upon the board of supervisors' own motion or in the event a member's employment or status no longer meets the membership criteria set forth in the Workforce Investment Act. In the case of such a vacancy, the board of supervisors shall appoint a successor who may serve a term as set forth by the board of supervisors in accordance with the provisions of Section 3.76.020
B.
In the event of a vacancy occurring for a member directly nominated by a supervisor, a replacement nominee shall be nominated by that supervisor and be appointed by the board of supervisors.
C.
In the event of a vacancy occurring for a member not directly nominated by the board of supervisors, the department of community and senior services shall present a list of nominees who have been nominated in accordance with the Workforce Investment Act and approved by the WIB for consideration by the board of supervisors. Representatives of businesses may be nominated by any local business organization or business trade association and may be included on the list presented by the department of community and senior services.
(Ord. 2003-0014 ยง 1 (part), 2003.)
