Chapter 19 - OTHER BUSINESS OPERATIONS[1]
Footnotes:
--- (1) ---
Editor's note— Amd. of Apr. 20, 2010 changed the title of Ch. 19 from transient vendors, solicitors and peddlers to other business operations.

ARTICLE I. - TRANSIENT VENDORS, SOLICITORS AND PEDDLERS[2]

Footnotes:
--- (2) ---
Editor's note— Amd. of Apr. 20, 2010 designated existing §§ 19-1—19-6 as Art. I, transient vendors, solicitors and peddlers.

Sec. 19-1. - Definitions.
The following words, terms and phrases, when used in this article, shall have the meanings ascribed to them in this section, except where the context clearly indicates a different meaning:
Transient vendors means those who have no permanent or regular place of business within the county and who sell articles of any kind in the county.
For the purpose of this section, the terms "permanent" and "regular" mean:
1.
Any person, corporation, partnership or any other legal entity which operates any sort of enterprise, as described above, who owns the real property or building from which said business is transacted; or
2.
Any person, corporation, partnership or any other legal entity which operates any sort of enterprise, as described above, upon any property or building which is leased or rented for a period of 12 months or longer from which such business is transacted.
Solicitors means those who act as an agent that solicits house to house or makes personal phone calls displaying samples of products either delivered at the time of sale or shipped directly from the manufacturer.
Peddlers means those engaged in selling fruits, vegetables and Christmas trees not grown on the premises.
(Amd. of 6-1-04(2); Amd. of 4-20-10)
Sec. 19-2. - License required; application; information; fee; violation.
(a)
No transient vendor, solicitor or peddler shall sell any article in the county without having first made application for a license to do business.
(b)
Said application shall include a copy of a consent form obtained from the sheriff's office authorizing a GCIC/NCIC criminal history check of the applicant. The applicant is responsible for the cost of the criminal history check. No person shall receive any transient vendor, solicitor or peddlers license in unincorporated Houston County who has been convicted, pled guilty or nolo contendere to any felony for three years immediately prior to the filing of the application.
(c)
All persons must be at least 18 years of age to provide solicitation service in unincorporated Houston County.
(d)
Any person who shall undertake to do business as a transient vendor without having complied with the terms of this article or who shall make any false statements in any application for a transient vendor's license shall be guilty of an offense.
(e)
It is necessary to have transient vendors, solicitors or peddlers selling any articles in unincorporated Houston County to have state and national criminal background check.
(f)
This section is enacted pursuant to O.C.G.A. 35-3-35(a)(1) to regulate the issuance of licenses of those engaged in being transient vendors, solicitors or peddlers in unincorporated Houston County.
(g)
An applicant or volunteer seeking to engage in being a transient vendor, solicitor, or peddler shall submit, if required, two sets of his/her fingerprints taken by the Houston County Sheriff's Department to Houston County Commissioner's Office.
(h)
Upon receipt of the fingerprints and the appropriate fees, Houston County will transmit the fingerprints and appropriate fees (unless a satisfactory billing arrangement has been entered into between Houston County and the Georgia Bureau of Investigations) to the Georgia Bureau of Investigations (GBI). The GBI will compare the subject's fingerprints against its criminal file and (1) if no disqualifying conduct is found therein (or) (2) if necessary, submit the fingerprints to the Federal Bureau of Investigations (FBI) for a comparisons with nationwide records. The results of the FBI check will be returned to the GBI which will disseminate the state and national results to Houston County.
(i)
If an employer or organization is a private entity, Houston County shall render a fitness determination based upon the results of the criminal background check and communicate its fitness determination to such private employer or organization. If an employer or organization is a public entity, Houston County shall:
(1)
Render a fitness determination based upon the results of the criminal background check and communicate its fitness determination to such public entity, or
(2)
Disseminate the results of the criminal background check to the public entity for a fitness determination.
(j)
In rendering a fitness determination, Houston County will decide whether the record subject has been convicted of or is under pending indictment for:
(1)
A crime which bears upon his/her ability or fitness to be a transient vendor, solicitor or peddler in unincorporated Houston County; or
(2)
Any felony or a misdemeanor which involved force or threat of force, controlled substances, or was a sex-related offense; or
(3)
Enumerated disqualifiers.
(k)
A record subject may request and receive a copy of his/her criminal history record information from Houston County. Should the record subject seek to amend or correct his/her record, he/she must contact the GBI for a Georgia state record or the FBI for records from other jurisdictions maintained in its file.
(Amd. of 6-1-04(2); Amd. of 2-19-13)
Sec. 19-3. - License fees.
License fees to do business in unincorporated Houston County as a transient vender, solicitor or peddler shall be the same as those charged businesses with a permanent place of business.
(Amd. of 6-1-04(2))
Sec. 19-4. - Permitted locations; restriction.
Transient venders and peddlers shall be permitted to locate in unincorporated areas of the county only if the proposed location of any such transient vendor has a zoning classification of C-2.
(Amd. of 6-1-04(2))
Sec. 19-5. - Lease required.
No transient vendor or peddler shall be permitted to operate his business with unincorporated Houston County without proof of a written lease from the owner of the property upon which such transient vendor business is to be operated.
(Amd. of 6-1-04(2))
Sec. 19-6. - Orderly display.
Any displays of samples, model goods, wares or merchandise by any transient merchant must be arranged in an orderly manner and must be placed upon some sort of structure other than the paved space upon which the business is located.
(Amd. of 6-1-04(2))
Secs. 19-7—19-9. - Reserved.
ARTICLE II. - TAXICABS/LIMOUSINE SERVICE

Sec. 19-10. - Definition.
The following words, terms and phrases, when used in this article, shall have the meanings ascribed to them in this section, except where the context clearly indicates a different meaning:
Business license fee means a regulatory fee paid to the county to ensure the qualifications and records of drivers of taxicabs and other vehicles for hire, as well as the safety and comfort of taxicabs.
Taxicab means a motor-driven vehicle of not more than eight-passenger capacity operated by the owner thereof or an agent, lessee or employee of the owner and which is regularly available for hire to transport persons within or outside unincorporated Houston County.
Taxicab business means any separately owned and operated taxicab; or a fleet of owned or leased taxicabs; or a fleet of taxicabs owned separately, but operating under one name.
(Amd. of 4-20-10)
Sec. 19-11. - Fee.
Fees for a taxicab business license shall be determined using the county's occupational tax fee schedule, as amended.
(Amd. of 4-20-10)
Sec. 19-12. - Inspection of cabs.
The owner of a taxicab will be responsible, on an annual basis, for having all cabs inspected by a certified mechanic of his/her/its own choosing. The business owner will provide the most current maintenance records to the director of administration prior to renewing the business license by the end of February each year. Failure to maintain vehicles in good mechanical condition may result in the suspension or revocation of the business license.
(Amd. of 4-20-10)
Sec. 19-13. - Schedule of fares to be posted.
The schedule of fares shall be posted in each taxicab and in the office of each taxicab company.
(Amd. of 4-20-10)
Sec. 19-14. - Application; license.
(a)
No person shall receive a taxicab license in unincorporated Houston County without first completing an application to be provided by the director of administration. This application shall contain the name and address of the owner, the make and vehicle serial number, model, year, total mileage and passenger-carrying capacity for each vehicle operated; the names of each operator are to be listed as well. Said application shall include a copy of a consent form obtained from the sheriff's office authorizing a GCIC/NCIC criminal history and driving history check of the applicant and each operator. The applicant is responsible for the cost of both the criminal history check and driving history of each operator.
(b)
The application shall be reviewed by the sheriff's office for any record of excessive recklessness on the part of the applicant or those operating taxicabs under the applicant's name. No person shall operate a taxicab in unincorporated Houston County who has been convicted, pled guilty or nolo contendere to any felony for three years immediately prior to the filing of the application.
(Amd. of 4-20-10)
Sec. 19-15. - Liability insurance required.
Every applicant for a taxicab business license shall, before the license is granted, deposit with the director of administration, for each taxicab for which the privilege to operated is sought, a policy or certificate of liability insurance, indemnifying the applicant in the sums required by law. The certificate or policy of liability insurance shall be issued by a company or companies authorized to do business in the state. The certificate or policy of insurance shall identify by serial number all vehicles insured under the policy or policies. The license for the operation of the taxicab business shall expire upon the lapse or cancellation or termination or revocation of any policy covering any taxicab operated under the business.
(Amd. of 4-20-10)
Sec. 19-16. - License issued; display of license.
If application meets all requirements, a license shall be issued upon the payment of the proper license fee prescribed by the board of commissioners. This license or a copy thereof shall be displayed on each taxicab operated in unincorporated Houston County.
(Amd. of 4-20-10)
Sec. 19-17. - License amendment.
(a)
Each licensee under this article shall amend the license application originally filed for the license to include new taxicabs or exclude old taxicabs promptly upon adding or deleting taxicabs from the licensee's business so that an up-to-date list of operating taxicabs may be maintained.
(b)
Each licensee hereunder shall also provide the director of administration proof that any new taxicab added to the application is fully insured as required under this article.
(Amd. of 4-20-10)
Sec. 19-18. - Revocation of license or permit.
Any license under this article may be suspended or revoked by the board of commissioners upon a finding that any provision of this article has been violated or that the person or business holding the license or permit no longer meets the standards required for the issuance of the license or permit.
(Amd. of 4-20-10)
