Chapter 38 - MANUFACTURED HOMES AND TRAILERS[1]
Footnotes:
--- (1) ---
Cross reference— Administration, ch. 2; buildings and building regulations, ch. 14; businesses, ch. 18; environment, ch. 30; floods, ch. 34; solid waste, ch. 50; streets, sidewalks and other public places, ch. 54; taxation, ch. 58; traffic and vehicles, ch. 62; utilities, ch. 68; zoning, ch. 72.
State Law reference— Classification of mobile homes as a separate class of property for ad valorem property tax purposes, Ga. Const. art. 7, sec. 1, par. 3; The Uniform Standards Code for Manufactured Homes Act, O.C.G.A. § 8-2-130 et seq.; regulations for septic tanks in unincorporated areas; conformity prerequisite to building permit, O.C.G.A. § 31-3-5.1; registration and licensing of dealers, manufacturers and persons transporting mobile homes, O.C.G.A. § 40-2-38; removal of transportable housing from lands subject to writ of possession, O.C.G.A. § 44-7-59; ad valorem taxation of mobile homes, O.C.G.A. § 48-5-440 et seq.

ARTICLE I. - IN GENERAL

Sec. 38-1. - Temporary location.
Before any person shall locate or relocate a mobile home within the limits of the county for any purpose other than resale, he shall apply for and obtain from the county tax commissioner of the county a permit authorizing this location or relocation.
(Code 1976, § 8-1071; Ord. of 11-2-93)
Sec. 38-39. - Relocation outside county.
The owner of a mobile home or relocatable home, before relocating it from a point within the limits of the county to a point outside the limits of the county, shall make application to the county tax commissioner for a permit and decal authorizing this relocation.
(Code 1976, § 8-1072; Ord. of 11-2-93)
Secs. 38-3—38-35. - Reserved.
ARTICLE II. - LOCATION OR RELOCATION PERMIT

Sec. 38-36. - Violation of article.
Any person who shall fail to comply with or violates this article shall be guilty of a misdemeanor, and upon conviction thereof shall be punished as provided by law, all as provided by 1971 Ga. Laws, page 631.
(Code 1976, § 8-1086)
Sec. 38-37. - Authority to prescribe additional regulations.
The board of commissioners may adopt such other reasonable rules and regulations as may be necessary to carry out the intent of this article.
(Code 1976, § 8-1079)
Sec. 38-38. - Location or relocation inside county.
Before any person shall locate or relocate a mobile home within the limits of the county for any purpose other than resale, he shall apply for and obtain from the county tax commissioner a permit authorizing this location or relocation.
(Code 1976, § 8-1071)
Sec. 38-39. - Relocation outside county.
The owner of a mobile home or relocatable home, before relocating it from a point within the limits of the county to a point outside the limits of the county, shall make application to the county tax commissioner for a permit and decal authorizing this relocation.
(Code 1976, § 8-1072)
Sec. 38-40. - Permit required.
(a)
No person shall own or have located within the limits of the county any mobile or relocatable home, for any purpose other than resale, unless application for a current year's permit shall have been made and a permit received in accordance with the provisions of this article.
(b)
No person shall initially locate any mobile or relocatable home or relocate any mobile or relocatable home within the limits of the county or outside the limits of the county, for any purpose other than resale, without having made application and obtained the required permit.
(c)
No person shall occupy any mobile home as a residence unless a current year's permit shall have been issued therefor as required by this article.
(d)
No owner or operator of a mobile home park shall permit any mobile home to be located or relocated within the confines of that park for residential use unless the permit required by this article has been obtained. No owner or operator of any mobile home park shall permit any mobile or relocatable home presently located within the limits of that park owned by him to remain in the park unless a current year's permit authorizing the continued location as required by this article has been obtained.
(Code 1976, §§ 8-1080—8-1083)
Sec. 38-41. - Attachment of decal.
Every owner of a mobile home or relocatable home to be used for any purpose other than resale within the limits of the county shall have a proper permit and decal affixed to the mobile or relocatable home in such a manner as to cause the decal to be easily visible for inspection at all times the mobile or relocatable home is being used within the limits of the county.
(Code 1976, § 8-1073)
Sec. 38-42. - Fee.
A fee in an amount determined by the board of commissioners from time to time for the issuance and annual renewal of each mobile home or relocatable home permit and decal shall be paid by the owner to the county tax commissioner when the permit is issued.
(Code 1976, § 8-1074; Ord. of 11-2-93)
Sec. 38-43. - Application and permit forms.
The county tax commissioner may prescribe forms for the application for a permit under this article and for any permit issued pursuant thereto, as well as any other document required in connection with the application or permit, and the county tax commissioner may require that applicants furnish such information in writing as may be reasonably required to effectuate the purposes of this article.
(Code 1976, § 8-1075; Ord. of 11-2-93)
Sec. 38-44. - Approval of site.
Upon receipt of an application for the location or relocation of a mobile home or relocatable home, the county tax commissioner shall determine whether or not it is located on a site approved by the county planning and zoning commission. If the location or proposed location of the mobile home or relocatable home has not been approved by that commission, the application therefor shall be denied.
(Code 1976, § 8-1076; Ord. of 11-2-93)
Sec. 38-45. - Payment of taxes.
All applicable ad valorem taxes must be paid prior to the issuance of any prescribed deed. The applicant for location or relocation of a mobile or relocatable home shall present to the county tax commissioner a tax receipt from the tax commissioner of the county, and, if the mobile home is located or to be located within the city limits of any municipality in the county, a tax receipt from the city clerk of Centerville, Perry or Warner Robins.
(Code 1976, § 8-1077; Ord. of 11-2-93)
Sec. 38-46. - Collection of delinquent taxes.
If, upon application for a permit for location or relocation of a mobile home as required by this article, it shall be determined that there are past due ad valorem taxes owing either to the municipalities or to the county, the county tax commissioner shall collect such delinquent taxes due to the county, and may add any penalty, interest and costs as provided by law on any delinquencies; and further if there are outstanding ad valorem taxes due to a municipality, the county tax commissioner shall require proof that such delinquent taxes and any penalty, interest and costs as provided by law on any delinquencies have been paid.
(Code 1976, § 8-1084; Ord. of 11-2-93)
Sec. 38-47. - Issuance; contents; use.
If the site of location or proposed location of a mobile home or relocatable home has been approved for that use by the county planning and zoning commission and if all ad valorem taxes due under the provisions of this article have been paid, the county tax commissioner shall issue a permit with a decal as prescribed in 1971 Ga. Laws, page 631, as amended. The permit shall identify the mobile home or relocatable home involved and the site on which it is to be located, and shall be valid only for that structure and for that site.
(Code 1976, § 8-1078; Ord. of 11-2-93)
Sec. 38-48. - Connection of utilities.
No person supplying electricity, gas or water shall connect any electricity, gas or water into any mobile home or relocatable home unless that home shall have been issued a current year's permit as provided in this article.
(Code 1976, § 8-1085)
Secs. 38-49—38-80. - Reserved.
ARTICLE III. - MOBILE HOME PARKS AND SUBDIVISIONS

Sec. 38-81. - Guidelines for installation.
Installation of manufactured homes within the unincorporated areas of Houston County shall be according to Appendix A to Chapter 120-3-7, Rules and Regulations of the Office of Commissioner of Insurance Safety Fire Division, as amended, being herein incorporated by reference for all purposes.
(Min. of 2-6-01)
Sec. 38-82. - Inspections.
There shall be two required inspections on any manufactured home being installed before the power is allowed to be connected:
(1)
Setup inspection: Before any underpinning is installed and after the electrician and plumber have completed their connections, an inspection of the home shall be required. The home will need to be unlocked for this inspection.
(2)
Final inspection: Before the power is connected to the home, a final inspection of the home must be approved. This will require all entrances to have completed stairs and landings and installation of the underpinning shall be completed. Power will not be connected until the required type of underpinning, stairs and landings are installed.
(Min. of 2-6-01)
Sec. 38-83. - Permit issuance procedure.
(a)
No permit shall be issued for the construction, establishment or alteration of a mobile home park or subdivision until a preliminary plan and a final plan have been submitted to the building inspector, who will forward those plans within five days to the planning board for review and approval, with or without conditions. A copy of the approved preliminary plan and conditions, if any, shall be kept on file in the office of the building inspector. The planning commission shall have 30 days in which to complete its review. The planning commission's recommendation shall be forwarded to the board for review and approval or disapproval.
(b)
Approval of the preliminary plan shall indicate approval of location only and no work shall commence on the site until a final plan has been completed, approved and a public hearing held thereon.
(c)
A final plan shall be prepared which shall correct any conditions placed on the preliminary plan in addition to the requirements listed in section 38-84(b). The final plan shall be prepared for all of the property ultimately to be developed but may show several stages of construction. In no case shall an individual stage of construction be less than five acres in size. Subsequent stages of construction shall conform to the approved final plans.
(d)
The planning commission shall have 30 days to complete its review of the final plan and forward it to the board, which shall approve or disapprove the final plan.
(e)
When a final plan is approved, the plan shall be kept on file in the office of the board of commissioners. If the property approved for a mobile home park or subdivision is sold, subsequent owners shall construct according to the approved plan. Departures from the approved plan shall not be permitted without first following the procedures described in this chapter for preliminary and final plans.
(Code 1976, § 8-2002)
Sec. 38-84. - Plan requirements.
(a)
Preliminary plan. A preliminary site plan shall show the following information:
(1)
Existing features:
a.
The bearings and distances of the boundary lines of the property in single ownership to be subdivided or developed.
b.
The location of any streams, natural drainageways and other waterways which exist on the property.
c.
The distance and direction to public water lines.
d.
The name, location and right-of-way width of existing streets on the property or on the land adjoining the property.
(2)
Proposed design features:
a.
The location and specifications of proposed streets, improvements to existing streets including right-of-way lines, proposed paving and proposed pavement widths and street names.
b.
The location and size of all mobile home spaces. In the case of a mobile home subdivision, the dimensions of each lot shall be indicated.
c.
Proposed location of all service buildings and structures, including structures to be used in connection with water and sewage treatment.
d.
Proposed setback lines for all mobile homes and service buildings.
e.
Proposed location and design treatment of all vehicular entrances and other landscaping features.
f.
A statement which shall describe the electrical distribution system and electrical feeders.
g.
A statement which shall describe the method by which sanitary sewers and treatment facilities will be provided and the method of treatment.
h.
A statement which shall describe the method by which water facilities will be provided and the method of treatment.
(b)
Final plan. A final plat plan shall show the following information:
(1)
All of the information shown on the preliminary plan.
(2)
The location and size of the electrical distribution system and feeders for street lighting, entrances and exits, common areas, buildings and mobile home spaces, with supporting engineering data necessary to evaluate the electrical design.
(3)
The location and size of all water distribution lines and sewer collection lines to and from mobile home spaces, buildings and structures and related facilities and engineering data necessary to evaluate the systems.
(4)
A drainage plan for the entire park or subdivision showing the ultimate disposition of all surface water.
(5)
The location, size, layout, design and construction of each building in accord with the standards set by the Southern Building Code and Insurance Underwriters' Laboratory.
(6)
A certificate of approval signed by the county administrative assistant or his duly authorized representative.
(7)
A certificate of approval signed by the health officer or his duly authorized representative.
(8)
A certificate that the plan and all engineering data were prepared by, or under the supervision of, a registered engineer.
(Code 1976, § 8-2003)
Sec. 38-85. - Site provisions.
(a)
Area. The minimum area per park or subdivision shall be five acres.
(b)
Lot size. The minimum mobile home space shall be 4,500 square feet; minimum width 50 feet, except that where septic tanks are used the minimum lot size required by the health department shall prevail.
(c)
Setbacks. No mobile home shall be set back less than ten feet from the right-of-way line; ten feet from the rear line; seven feet from a side line in mobile home parks, subdivisions or travel trailer parks.
(d)
Boundary setbacks.
(1)
No mobile home space, building, or related structure shall be set back less than 30 feet from the boundary lines of the park, unless the adjacent property is utilized for mobile home parks or subdivisions, in which case the same setbacks as shown in subsection (c) of this section shall apply.
(2)
When a mobile home park or subdivision abuts a residential, business or commercial district, a planted buffer four feet thick and maintained to a height of eight feet shall be provided along the entire boundary.
(e)
Number of spaces. The minimum number of spaces completed and ready for occupancy before the first occupancy is permitted in a mobile home park or subdivision shall be 30 spaces.
(f)
Commercial facilities. Convenience establishments of a commercial nature, including stores, laundry and dry cleaning establishments and pickup stations, beauty shops and barber shops and management offices may be permitted in the final plans or future alterations of mobile home parks or subdivisions provided these establishments and the parking areas relate primarily to their operations, and these commercial facilities:
(1)
Shall not occupy more than ten percent of the total area of the park.
(2)
Shall be subordinate to the residential use and character of the park.
(3)
Shall be located, designed and intended to serve frequent trade or service needs of persons residing in the park.
(4)
Shall present no visible evidence as to their commercial character from any portion of any district outside the park.
(g)
Access. No park or subdivision shall be located except with direct access to a county, state or federal highway, with a minimum right-of-way width of not less than 60 feet for the portion used for entrance and exit.
(h)
Street width. The minimum right-of-way width of a street within a park or subdivision shall be 60 feet. All streets therein shall be paved to a width of 20 feet.
(Code 1976, § 8-2004)
Sec. 38-86. - Inspections.
The health officer shall make frequent inspections of all mobile home parks or subdivisions to ensure safeguarding the health and safety of mobile home occupants and the general public. Whenever the health officer finds conditions or practices in violation of these regulations and/or state or county health regulations, he shall give notice in writing to the person to whom the permit was issued, stating the violation and giving a reasonable period of time for correction of the violation. The health officer shall reinspect the facility in violation, at the end of the reasonable period of time, and if the violation remains uncorrected, he shall give notice to the person responsible that his permit has been suspended, with copies of this notice sent to the director of the building and zoning department and the county attorney. Upon notice of suspension, the person responsible shall cease operation of the mobile home facility or travel trailer park; the director of the building and zoning department shall suspend the occupancy and use permit and the county attorney shall take such action as he deems necessary to correct the conditions.
(Code 1976, § 8-2005)
Sec. 38-87. - Porches, carports and awnings; additions and/or alterations.
(a)
Additions and/or alterations to mobile homes in mobile home parks and subdivisions shall not protrude beyond the setback limits described in section 38-85(c). The design and materials used in additions and/or alterations shall be those associated with the mobile home industry and approved by state and county building codes.
(b)
Application for the approval of additions and/or alterations and the issuance of a building permit shall be made to the building inspector.
(Code 1976, § 8-2006)
Sec. 38-88. - Mobile home park, subdivision offices.
The park or subdivision office will keep on file, for inspection and reference, the approved final plan and any subsequent plans of additions and alterations.
(Code 1976, § 8-2007)
Sec. 38-89. - New mobile home parks, subdivisions.
New parks and subdivisions shall be established and existing uses enlarged only in accordance with the provisions of this chapter, provided all other sections of these regulations are complied with. Applicants shall submit to the planning commission their application containing all required and necessary information, including written approval signed by the county health officer and the building inspector. If the application is approved, as prescribed in these regulations, a permit shall be issued, provided the applicant signs an agreement approved by the board agreeing to comply with all state and county laws, specifications and regulations. An annual permit shall be obtained from the board by all mobile home park and subdivision operators, as evidence that the facility is operating in accordance with all requirements.
(Code 1976, § 8-2008)
Sec. 38-90. - Temporary use.
A single mobile home or travel trailer may be used for an office in a subdivision by the developer, or for other special purposes upon written approval of the board. These mobile homes shall meet all the setback requirements of this chapter.
(Code 1976, § 8-2009)
Cross reference— Temporary location of a mobile home, § 38-1.
Sec. 38-91. - Incidental structures; sales of mobile homes.
Each type of development shall provide automobile parking space, utility systems and other structures incidental thereto. Mobile home sales shall not be permitted in any mobile home park or subdivision.
(Code 1976, § 8-2010)
