ARTICLE III. - BOARDS, AUTHORITIES AND COMMISSIONS
DIVISION 1. - HOUSTON COUNTY DEVELOPMENT AUTHORITY[5]

Footnotes:
--- (5) ---
Editor's note— The constitutional amendment establishing the Houston County Development Authority was continued in full force and effect pursuant to 1985 Ga. Laws, page 4873.
Code references—Planning commission, § 2-101 et seq.; Development Authority of Houston County, § 2.126; Middle Georgia Regional Development Commission, § 2-151 et seq.; zoning, ch. 72.
State Law reference— Development Authorities Law, O.C.G.A. § 36-62-1 et seq.

Sec. 3.1. - Creation; powers; procedures.
Article V, section IX of the Constitution is hereby amended by adding at the end thereof the following:
(1) Created. There is hereby created a body corporate and politic in Houston County to be known as the Houston County Development Authority, which shall be an instrumentality of Houston County and a public corporation and which in this amendment is hereafter referred to as the "authority";
(2) Members. The authority shall consist of the mayor of the City of Warner Robins, the mayor of the City of Perry, the mayor of the City of Centerville, the chairman of the governing authority of Houston County, and three (3) additional members who shall be appointed by the above named member of the authority. The persons so appointed shall be appointed in such a manner that their initial terms of office shall be for one (1) to three (3) years, respectively. Thereafter, all such members shall serve for terms of office for three (3) years each;
(3) Tax exemption. The property, obligations and the interest on the obligations of the authority shall have the same immunity from taxation as the property, obligations and interest on the obligations of Houston County;
(4) Powers. The powers of the authority shall include, but not be limited to, the power:
a.
To receive and administer gifts, grants and donations and to administer trusts;
b.
To borrow money, to issue notes, bonds and revenue certificates, to execute trust agreements or indentures, and to sell, convey, mortgage, pledge and assign any and all of its funds, property and income as security therefor;
c.
To contract with political subdivisions of the State of Georgia and with private persons and corporations and to sue and be sued in its corporate name;
d.
To have and exercise usual powers of [a] private corporation except such as are inconsistent with this amendment, including the power to appoint and hire officers, agents and employees and to provide their compensation and duties, which officers and agents may or may not be members of the authority, and the power to adopt and amend a corporate seal and by-laws and regulations for the conduct and management of the authority;
e.
To encourage and promote the expansion and development of industrial and commercial facilities in Houston County, and to that end to acquire by purchase or gift any building or structure within aforesaid territorial limits suitable for and intended for use as a factory, mill, shop, processing plant, assembly plant, or fabricating plant, including all necessary and appurtenant lands and appurtenances thereto, and all necessary or useful furnishings, machinery and equipment. Such acquisition may be through the acquisition of land and the construction thereon of a building, including the demolition of existing structures, or through the acquisition of an existing building and the remodeling, renovating, reconstructing, furnishing and equipping of such building;
f.
No building acquired hereunder shall be operated by the authority but shall be leased or sold to one (1) or more persons, firms or corporations. If sold, the purchase price may be paid at one (1) time or in installments falling due in not more than 30 years from the date of transfer of possession. The lessee or purchaser shall be required to pay all costs of operating and maintaining the building or buildings and to pay rentals or installments sufficient, together with other revenues, which may be pledged for the purpose, to retire all bonds, both principal and interest, and to pay all other expenses which the authority may have incurred in connection with the undertaking.
g.
To accumulate its funds from year to year and to invest accumulated funds in any manner that public funds of the State of Georgia or any of its political subdivisions may be invested;
h.
To designate officers to sign and act for the authority generally or in any specific matter;
i.
To do any and all acts and things necessary or convenient to accomplish the purpose and powers of the authority as herein stated;
(5) Debt. The authority shall not be authorized to create in any manner any debt, liability or obligation against the State of Georgia or Houston County;
(6) Members' compensation. The members of the authority shall receive no compensation for their services to the authority;
(7) Bonds. In order to finance any undertaking with [within] the scope of its power or to refund any bonds then outstanding, the authority is hereby authorized to issue bonds bearing rate or rates of interest and maturing at the years and amounts determined by the authority and the procedure of validation, issuance and delivery shall be in all respects in accordance with the revenue bond law (1937 Ga. Laws, page 761) as amended, Ga. Code Ann. Supp. chapter 87-8, as if said obligations had been originally authorized to be issued thereunder; provided, however, that any property, real or personal, of the authority may be pledged, mortgaged, conveyed, assigned, hypothecated or otherwise encumbered as security for any lawful debt of the authority. The authority may execute any trust agreement or indenture not in conflict with the provisions of this amendment to provide security for any bonds issued as provided herein, and such trust agreement or indenture may provide for foreclosure or forced sale of any property of the authority upon default on such bonds either in payment of principal or interest or under any term or condition under which such bonds are issued. Nothing herein contained shall be construed to create a right to compel any exercise of the taxing power of Houston County to pay any of the said obligations of said authority;
(8) Bonds placed in escrow. The authority may authorize additional bonds, for extensions and permanent improvements to any industrial building acquired hereunder, to be placed in escrow and to be negotiated from time to time as proceeds for that purpose may become necessary. Bonds so placed in escrow shall, when sold and delivered, have such standing with the bonds of the same issue as may be provided in the authorizing proceedings;
(9) Issuance of bonds. No bonds except refunding bonds shall be issued hereunder unless the authority shall have found and declared that:
a.
The undertaking for which the bonds are to be issued will increase employment within the territorial limits herein designated;
b.
The lessee or purchaser of the building or buildings involved will not by virtue of establishing operations in said territorial limits, reduce the number of employees employed by said lessee or purchaser elsewhere in the State of Georgia;
(10) Gifts. No moneys derived by the authority from any source other than gifts and contributions from private individuals, firms or corporations shall at any time be used for entertainment, or other promotional expenses;
(11) Property. Should said authority for any reason be dissolved, title to all property of every kind and nature, real and personal, held by the authority at the time of such dissolution shall revert to Houston County subject to any mortgages, liens, leases or other encumbrances outstanding against or in respect to said property at that time;
(12) Purpose; construction. This amendment is adopted for the purpose of promoting and expanding for the public good and welfare industry and trade in Houston County and its vicinity and reducing unemployment to the greatest extent possible, and this amendment and any law enacted with reference to the authority shall be liberally construed for the accomplishment of these purposes;
(13) Power of General Assembly. The General Assembly may by law further define and prescribe the powers and duties of the authority and the exercise thereof, and may enlarge and restrict the same, and may likewise further regulate the management and conduct of the authority. The authority shall be an instrumentality of the Houston County and the scope of its operations shall be limited to the territory embraced within said county. The General Assembly shall not extend the jurisdiction of the authority nor the scope of its operations beyond such limits.
(1964 Ga. Laws, page 1055, § 1)
Related laws reference—Please see Development Authority of Houston County, Code of General Ordinances, Article III, Division 9, Section 2-253 which supersedes portions of the above section.
Secs. 3.2—3.15. - Reserved.
DIVISION 2. - PERRY-HOUSTON COUNTY AIRPORT AUTHORITY[6]

Footnotes:
--- (6) ---
Editor's note— An act adopted Feb. 15, 1994, changed the title of this division from "Perry-Fort Valley Airport Authority" to "Perry-Houston County Airport Authority."
State Law reference— Acquisition, construction and maintenance of airports by counties and municipalities, O.C.G.A. § 6-3-20 et seq.; powers of counties and municipalities as to airports, O.C.G.A. § 6-3-25; authorization to enforce police regulations in airports, O.C.G.A. § 6-3-27.

Sec. 3.16. - Short title.
This Act may be sighted [cited] as the "Perry-Houston County Airport Authority Act."
(1971 Ga. Laws, page 2589, § 1; Act of 2-15-94, § 1)
Sec. 3.17. - Creation.
There is hereby created a body corporate and politic to be known as the Perry-Houston County Airport Authority, which shall be deemed to be a political subdivision of the State of Georgia and a public corporation by that name, style and title and said body may contract and be contracted with, sue and be sued, implead and be impleaded, complain and defend in all courts of law and equity, except that the Authority of the trustee acting under the trust indenture herein provided for shall in no event be liable for any torts committed by any of the officers, agents and employees of the Authority. The Authority shall have perpetual existence.
(1971 Ga. Laws, page 2589, § 2; Act of 2-15-94, § 2)
Sec. 3.18. - Membership.
The Perry-Houston County Airport Authority shall be composed of seven members. Two of the members shall consist of the Mayor of the City of Perry or a member of the Perry City County designated by the Mayor and the Chairman of the Houston County Commissioners or a member of the Houston County Commissioners designated by the Chairman and their term on the Authority shall coincide with the terms of the respective elective positions of the Mayor and the Chairman. The remaining five members shall be appointed by the Perry City Council and the Houston County Commissioners as hereinafter set out. Within 30 days after the approval of this Act, it shall be the duty of said governing authorities to appoint five members. The City of Perry will appoint three members, two appointed for a term ending December 31, 1995 and one for a term ending December 31, 1996. The Houston County Commissioners shall appoint two members, one appointed for a term ending December 31, 1996. The Houston County Commissioners shall appoint two members, one appointed for a term ending December 31, 1995 and one appointed for a term ending December 31, 1996. At the first meeting of the governing authorities in 1996, the City of Perry shall appoint one member for a term ending December 31, 1997 and the Houston County Commissioners shall appoint two members whose terms shall expire December 31, 1997. All subsequent terms will be for two years and both governing authorities shall appoint one member every odd numbered year beginning in 1997. The governing authority of the City of Perry will appoint two members every other even numbered year beginning in 1998 and one member every other even numbered year beginning in 2000. The Houston County Commissioners shall appoint one member every other even numbered year beginning in 1988 and two members every other even numbered year beginning in 2000. All members appointed by each governing authority shall be residents of Houston County with the same residential qualifications as are required for a person to vote in Houston County.
In addition to the regular members of the Authority, the members of the Authority may elect Ex-Officio members to serve in an advisory capacity if in the opinion of the Authority such would be beneficial to the Authority and provided said Ex-Officio members are approved by the governing authorities of the City of Perry and Houston County. Ex-Officio members shall have all rights, privileges and amenities of regular members, but shall not have voting power or authority to execute official documents of the Authority by virtue of serving in this capacity.
(1971 Ga. Laws, page 2589, § 3; Act of 2-15-94, § 3)
Sec. 3.19. - Meetings and organization.
(a)
[Meetings.] The Authority shall hold their first regular meeting after the approval of this Act, and their first regular meeting of each year thereafter shall be in January. The Authority shall meet at such time as may be necessary to transact the business coming before it, but not less than quarterly. At its first meeting in January each year thereafter, the Authority shall elect its officers from the members of said Authority.
(b)
Officers. The officers shall be a chairman, a vice chairman and a secretary-treasurer. Only one (1) person shall hold the office of secretary-treasurer. These officers shall be elected for a term ending on December 31 of the year in which they were elected or until their successors are elected and qualified and must be members of said Authority.
(c)
Quorum. Four members of the Authority shall constitute a quorum, provided however, there must be two members present representing each of the governing authorities.
(d)
Compensation. The members of the Authority shall be compensated as determined from time to time by the governing authority of said cities and counties. However, it is expressly provided that they shall be reimbursed for all actual expenses incurred in the performance of their duty.
(e)
Executive committee. There shall be an executive committee composed of the chairman of the Authority and three (3) other members appointed by him with such powers and duties as may be given it by the Authority from time to time. Provided however, that the executive committee shall be composed of one (1) member representing each of the municipal authorities and each of the counties.
(1971 Ga. Laws, page 2589, § 4; Act of 2-15-94, § 4)
Sec. 3.20. - Vacancies.
In the event of a vacancy on the Authority by reason of death, resignation or otherwise, the vacancy shall be filled by the appointing authority and the person so appointed shall serve for the remainder of the unexpired term.
(1971 Ga. Laws, page 2589, § 5)
Sec. 3.21. - Definitions.
As used in this Act, the following words and terms have the following meanings:
(1)
The word "Authority" shall mean the Perry-Houston County Airport Authority" as created by the provisions of this Act.
(2)
The word "Project" shall be deemed to mean and include the acquisition, construction, equipping, maintenance, improving the operation of public airports and landing fields for the use of aircraft, and relating buildings and the usual and convenient facilities appertaining to such undertakings and extensions and improvements of such facilities, acquiring the necessary property, both real and personal, and the lease and sale of any part or all such facilities, including real and personal property so as to assure the efficient and proper development, maintenance and operation of such airports, and landing fields for the use of aircraft deemed by the Authority to be necessary, convenient or desirable for the operation of such airports and landing fields within the perimeter of the lands now held or hereafter required.
(3)
The term "cost of the project" shall embrace the cost of construction, the cost of all lands, properties, rights, easements and franchises acquired, including the payment or reimbursement of reasonable actual costs incurred as a result of utility relocations when such relocations are made necessary by the project, the cost of all machinery, equipment, financing charges, interest prior to and during construction, cost of engineering, architectural, fiscal and legal expenses, and of plans and specifications, and such other expenses as may be necessary or incident to the financing herein authorized, the construction of any project and improving the same, the placing of the same in operation. Any obligation or expense incurred for any of the foregoing purposes shall be regarded as a part of the cost of the project and may be paid or reimbursed as such out of any funds of the Authority including the proceeds from any revenue bonds issued under the provisions of this Act for any such project or projects.
(4)
The terms "revenue bonds," "bonds" and "obligations" as used in this Act, shall mean revenue bonds as defined and provided for in the revenue bond law (1957 Ga. Laws, page 36) amending the law formerly known as the revenue certificate law of 1937 (1937 Ga. Laws, page 761, as amended), and such type of obligations may be issued by the Authority as authorized under said revenue bond law and any amendments thereto, and in addition shall also mean obligations of the Authority the issuance of which is hereinafter authorized in this Act.
(5)
Any project shall be deemed "self-liquidating" if in the judgment of the Authority the revenues and earnings to be derived by the Authority therefrom and all properties used, leased and sold in connection therewith will be sufficient to pay the cost of operating, maintaining and repairing, improving and extending the project and to pay the principal and interest of the revenue bonds which may be issued to finance, in whole or in part, the cost of such projects.
(1971 Ga. Laws, page 2589, § 6; Act of 2-15-94, §§ 5, 6)
Sec. 3.22. - Powers.
The authority shall have powers:
(1)
To have a seal and alter the same at pleasure;
(2)
To acquire by purchase, lease or otherwise, and to hold, lease, dispose of real and personal property of every kind and character for its corporate purposes;
(3)
To acquire in its own name by purchase, gift or otherwise, on such terms and conditions and in such manner as it may deem proper, real property or rights of easements therein or franchise necessary or convenient for its corporate purposes, and to use the same so long as its corporate existence shall continue and to lease or make contract with respect to the use of or disposition of the same in any manner it deems to the best advantage of the Authority;
(4)
To appoint, select and employ officers, agents and employees including engineering, architectural and construction experts, fiscal agents and attorneys, and fix their representative compensations;
(5)
To make contracts, leases and to execute all instruments necessary or convenient including contracts for construction of projects or leases of projects or contracts with respect to the use of projects which it causes to be erected or acquired and any and all persons, firms and corporations and any and all political subdivisions, departments, institutions, or agencies of the state are hereby authorized to enter into contracts, leases or agreements with the Authority upon such terms and for such purposes as they may deem advisable; the said Authority is further granted the authority to make contracts, leases and to execute all instruments necessary or convenient with the United States government or any agency or department thereof concerning the projects of the Authority, subject to the rights and interests of the holder of any of the bonds or obligations authorized to be issued hereunder, and by the resolution or trust indenture of the Authority authorizing the issuance of any of its bonds or obligations as provided in section 21[3.36] of this Act;
(6)
To construct, erect, acquire, own, repair, remodel, maintain, add to, extend, improve, equip, operate and manage projects as hereinabove defined, the cost of any such project to be paid in whole or in part from the proceeds of revenue bonds or other funds of the Authority or from such proceeds or other funds and any grant from the United States of America or any agency or instrumentality thereof;
(7)
To accept loans and grants, or to accept loans or grants of money or materials or property of any kind from the United States of America or any agency or instrumentality or political subdivision thereof or from any other source, upon such terms and conditions as the United States of America or such agency or instrumentality or other source may impose;
(8)
To accept loans and grants, or to accept loans or grants of money or materials or property of any kind from the State of Georgia or any agency or instrumentality or political subdivision thereof or from any other source, upon such terms and conditions as the State of Georgia or such agency or instrumentality or political subdivision or any other source, may impose;
(9)
To borrow money for any of its corporate purposes and to execute evidences of such indebtedness and to secure the same and to issue negotiable revenue bonds payable solely from funds pledged for that purpose, and to provide for the payment of the same and for the rights of the holders thereof;
(10)
To exercise any power usually possessed by private corporations performing similar functions, which is not in conflict with the constitution and laws of this state, including the right of eminent domain;
(11)
The Authority and the trustees acting under the trust indenture, are specifically authorized subject [to the provisions of this act] from time to time to sell, lease, grant, exchange or otherwise dispose of any surplus property, both real or personal, or interest therein not required in the normal operation of and usable in the furtherance of the purpose for which the Authority was created, except as such right and power may be limited as provided in section 2 [3.17] and section 21[3.36] of this Act;
(12)
To do all things necessary or convenient to carry out the powers especially given in this Act.
(13)
To give a name to any project provided said name is approved by the governing authorities of the City of Perry and Houston County.
(1971 Ga. Laws, page 2589, § 7; 1972 Ga. Laws, page 3570; Act of 2-15-94, § 7)
Sec. 3.23. - Revenue bonds generally.
The Authority, or any authority or body which has or which may in the future succeed to the powers, duties and liabilities vested in the Authority created hereby, shall have power and is hereby authorized at one (1) time, or from time to time, to provide by resolution for the issuance of negotiable revenue bonds, for the purpose of paying all or any part of the cost as herein defined of any one (1) or more projects. The principal and interest of such revenue bonds shall be payable solely from the special funds herein provided for such payment. The bonds of each issue shall be dated, shall bear interest at such rate or rates as may be authorized by the Authority from time to time, shall be payable semi-annually, shall mature at such time or times not exceeding thirty (30) years from their date or dates, shall be payable in such medium of payment as to both principal and interest as may be determined by the Authority, and may be made redeemable before maturity at the option of the Authority, at such price or prices and under such terms and conditions as may be fixed by the Authority in the resolution providing for the issuance of the bonds. Such revenue bonds or obligations shall be issued pursuant to and in conformity with the revenue bond law (1957 Ga. Laws, page 36) amending the law formerly known as the revenue certificate law of 1937 (1937 Ga. Laws, page 261), and all procedures pertaining to such issuance and the conditions thereof shall be the same as those contained in said revenue bond law and any amendments thereof.
(1971 Ga. Laws, page 2589, § 8)
Sec. 3.24. - Form, denominations, registration and place of payment of bonds.
The Authority shall determine the form of the bonds and the place or places of payment of principal thereto, and shall fix the denomination or denominations of the bonds and the place or places of payment of principal and interest thereof, which may be at any bank or trust company within or without the state. The bonds may be issued in coupon or registered form, or both, as the Authority may determine and provision may be made for the registration of any coupon bond as to principal alone and also as to both the principal and interest.
(1971 Ga. Laws, page 2589, § 9)
Sec. 3.25. - Signatures and seal on bonds.
In case any officer whose signature shall appear on any bonds or whose facsimile signature shall appear on any coupon shall cease to be such officer before the delivery of such bonds, such signature shall nevertheless be valid and sufficient for all purposes the same as if he had remained in office until such delivery. All such bonds shall be signed by the chairman of the Authority and attested by the secretary-treasurer of the Authority and the official seal of the Authority shall be affixed thereto and any coupons attached thereto shall bear the facsimile signatures of the chairman, and secretary-treasurer of the Authority. Any bond may be signed, sealed and attested on behalf of the Authority by such persons as at the actual time of the execution of such bonds shall be duly authorized or hold the proper office, although at the date of delivery and payment of such bonds such persons may not have been so authorized or shall not have held such office.
(1971 Ga. Laws, page 2589, § 10)
Sec. 3.26. - Negotiability of bonds; exemption from taxation.
All revenue bonds issued under the provisions of this Act shall have and are hereby declared to have all the qualities and incidents of negotiable instruments under the negotiable instrument law of the state. Such bonds are declared to be issued for an essential public and governmental purpose and the said bonds, their transfer, and the income thereof shall be exempt from all taxation within the state.
(1971 Ga. Laws, page 2589, § 11)
Sec. 3.27. - Sale and price of bonds.
The Authority may sell such bonds in such manner and for such prices as it may determine to be for the best interest of the Authority, but no such sale shall be made at a price less than par as provided in the revenue bond law unless said revenue bond law be hereafter amended to permit the sale of such bonds at less than par.
(1971 Ga. Laws, page 2589, § 12)
Sec. 3.28. - Use of proceeds of bonds.
The proceeds of such bonds shall be used solely for the payment of the cost of the project or projects, and unless otherwise provided in the resolution authorizing the issuance of the bonds or in the trust indenture, additional bonds may in like manner be issued to provide the amount of any deficit for the cost of the project or projects, which unless otherwise provided in the resolution authorizing the issuance of the bonds or in the trust indenture shall be deemed to be of the same issue and shall be entitled to payment from the same fund without preference or priority of the bonds first issued for the same purposes. If the proceeds of the bonds of any issue shall exceed the amount required for the purpose for which such bonds are issued, the surplus shall be paid into a sinking fund or used for additional construction as may be provided in the resolution authorizing the issuance of the bonds or in the trust indenture.
(1971 Ga. Laws, page 2589, § 13)
Sec. 3.29. - Interim receipts and certificates or temporary bonds.
Prior to the preparation of definitive bonds, the authority may, under like restrictions, issue interim receipts, interim certificates or temporary bonds, with or without coupons exchangeable for definitive bonds upon the issuance of the latter.
(1971 Ga. Laws, page 2589, § 14)
Sec. 3.30. - Replacement of lost or mutilated bonds.
The Authority may also provide for the replacement of any bond which shall become mutilated or be destroyed or lost.
(1971 Ga. Laws, page 2589, § 15)
Sec. 3.31. - Conditions precedent to issuance of bonds.
Such revenue bonds may be issued without any other proceedings or the happenings of any other conditions or things than those proceedings, conditions and things which are specified or required by this Act. In the discretion of the Authority, revenue bonds of a single issue may be issued for the purpose of any particular project. Any resolution providing for the issuance of revenue bonds under the provisions of this Act shall become effective immediately upon its passage and need not be published or posted, and any such resolution may be passed at any regular or special or adjourned meeting of the Authority by a majority of the quorum as in this Act provided.
(1971 Ga. Laws, page 2589, § 16)
Sec. 3.32. - Credit not pledged.
Revenue bonds issued under the provisions of this Act shall not be deemed to constitute a debt of either Houston County or the City of Perry, but such bonds shall be payable solely from the funds hereinafter provided for and the issuance of such revenue bonds shall not directly, indirectly or contingently obligate Houston County or the City of Perry, to levy or the pledge any form of taxation whatever therefor or to make any appropriation for the payment, and all such bonds shall contain recitals on their face covering substantially the foregoing provisions of this Section.
(1971 Ga. Laws, page 2589, § 17; Act of 2-15-94, § 8)
Sec. 3.33. - Trust indenture as security for bonds.
In the discretion of the authority, any issue of such revenue bonds may be secured by a trust indenture by and between the Authority and a corporate trustee, which may be any trust company or bank having the powers of a trust company within or without the state. Such trust indenture may pledge or assign fees, tolls, revenues and earnings to be received by the Authority, including the proceeds derived from the sale from time to time of any surplus property of the Authority, both real and personal. Either the resolution providing for the issuance of revenue bonds or such trust indenture may contain provisions for protecting and enforcing the rights and remedies of the bondholders as may be reasonable and proper and not in violation of law, including covenants setting forth the duties of the Authority in relation to the acquisition of property, the construction of the project, the maintenance, operation, repair and insurance of the property, and the custody, safeguarding and application of all monies, including the proceeds derived from the sale of property of the Authority, both real and personal, and may provide that any project shall be constructed and paid for under the supervision and approval of consulting engineers or architects employed or designated by the Authority, and satisfactory to the original purchasers of the bonds issued therefor and may also require that the security given by contractors and by any depository of the proceeds of the bonds or revenues or other monies be satisfactory to such purchasers, and may also contain provisions concerning conditions, if any, upon which additional revenue bonds may be issued. It shall be lawful for any bank or trust company incorporated under the laws of this state to act as such depository and to furnish such indemnifying bonds or pledge such securities as may be required by the Authority. Such indenture may set forth the rights and remedies of the bondholders and of the trustee, and may restrict the individual right of action of bondholders as is customary in trust indentures securing bonds and debentures of corporations. In addition to the foregoing, such trust indenture may contain such other provisions as the Authority may deem reasonable and proper for the security of the bondholders. All expenses incurred in carrying out such trust indenture may be treated as a part of the cost of maintenance, operation and repair of the project affected by such indenture.
(1971 Ga. Laws, page 2589, § 18)
Sec. 3.34. - Payment of proceeds of bonds.
The Authority shall, in the resolution providing for the issuance of revenue bonds or in trust indenture, provide for the payment of the proceeds of the sale of the bonds to any officer or person who, or any agency, bank or trust company which shall act as trustee of such funds and shall hold and apply the same to the purposes hereof, subject to such regulations as this Act and such resolutions or trust indentures may provide.
(1971 Ga. Laws, page 2589, § 19)
Sec. 3.35. - Sinking fund.
The revenues, fees, tolls and earnings derived from any particular project or projects, regardless of whether or not such fees, earnings and revenues were produced by a particular project for which bonds have been issued and any monies derived from the sale of any properties, both real and personal of the Authority, unless otherwise pledged and allocated, may be pledged and allocated by the Authority to the payment of the principal and interest on revenue bonds of the Authority as the resolution authorizing the issuance of the bonds or in the trust instrument may provide, and such funds so pledged from whatever source received, which said pledge may include funds received from one (1) or more of all sources, shall be set aside at regular intervals as may be provided in the resolution or trust indenture, into a sinking fund which said sinking fund shall be pledged to and charged with the payments of (1) the interest upon such revenue bonds as such interest shall fall due, (2) the principal of the bonds as the same shall fall due, (3) the necessary charges of paying agent or agents for paying interest and principal and (4) any premium upon bonds retired by call or purchase as hereinabove provided. The use and disposition of such sinking fund shall be subject to such regulations as may be provided in the resolution authorizing the issuance of the revenue bonds or in the trust indenture, but, except as may otherwise be provided in such resolution or trust indenture, such sinking fund shall be a fund for the benefit of all revenue bonds without distinction or priority of one over another. Subject to the provisions of the resolution authorizing the issuance of the bonds or in the trust indenture surplus monies in the sinking fund may be applied to the purchase or redemption of bonds and any such bonds so purchased or redeemed shall forthwith be cancelled and shall not again be issued.
(1971 Ga. Laws, page 2589, § 20)
Sec. 3.36. - Remedies of bondholders.
Any holder of revenue bonds issued under the provisions of this Act or any of the coupons appertaining thereto, and the trustee under the trust indenture, if any, except to the extent the rights herein given may be restricted by resolution passed before the issuance of the bonds or by the trust indenture, may, either at law or in equity, by suit, action, mandamus, or other proceedings, protect and enforce any and all rights under the laws of the State of Georgia or granted hereunder or under such resolution or trust indenture, and may enforce and compel performance of all duties required by this Act or by such resolution or trust indenture, to be performed by the Authority, or any officer thereof, including the fixing, charging and collecting of revenues, fees, tolls and other charges for the use of the facilities and services furnished.
(1971 Ga. Laws, page 2589, § 21)
Sec. 3.37. - Refunding bonds.
The Authority is hereby authorized to provide by resolution for the issue of revenue refunding bonds of the Authority for the purpose of refunding any revenue bonds issued under the provisions of this Act and then outstanding, together with accrued interest thereon. The issuance of such revenue refunding bonds, the maturities and all other details thereof, the rights of the holders thereof, and the duties of the Authority in respect to the same, shall be governed by the foregoing provisions of this Act insofar as the same may be applicable.
(1971 Ga. Laws, page 2589, § 22)
Sec. 3.38. - Validation of bonds.
Bonds of the Authority shall be confirmed and validated in accordance with the procedures of said revenue bond law. The petition for validation shall also make party defendant to such action any municipality, county, authority, subdivision or instrumentality of the State of Georgia or the United States Government or any department or agency of the United States Government, if subject to be sued, which has contracted with the Authority for the services and facilities of the project for which bonds are to be issued and sought to be validated and such municipality, county, authority, subdivision or instrumentality, shall be required to show cause, if any, why such contract or contracts and the terms and conditions thereof should not be inquired into by the court and the validity of the terms thereof be determined and the contract or contracts adjudicated as security for the payment of any such bonds of the Authority. The bonds, when validated, and the judgment of validation shall be final and conclusive with respect to such bonds, against the Authority issuing the same, and any municipality, county, authority, subdivision or instrumentality of the United States government if a party to the validation proceedings, contracting with the said Perry-Houston County Airport Authority.
(1971 Ga. Laws, page 2589, § 23; Act of 2-15-94, § 9)
Sec. 3.39. - Venue and jurisdiction for actions pertaining to bonds.
Any action to protect or enforce any rights under the provisions of this Act or any suit or action against such Authority shall be brought in the Superior Court of Houston County, and any action pertaining to validation of any bonds issued under the provisions of this Act shall likewise be bought [brought] in the Superior Court of Houston County, which shall have original jurisdiction of such action.
(1971 Ga. Laws, page 2589, § 24; Act of 2-15-94, § 10)
Sec. 3.40. - Protection of interests of bondholders.
While any of the bonds issued by the Authority remain outstanding, the powers, duties or existence of said Authority or its officers, employees or agents shall not be diminished or impaired in any manner that will affect adversely the interest and rights of the holders of such bonds, and no other entity, department, agency or authority will be created which will compete with the Authority to such an extent as to affect adversely the interest and rights of the holders of such bonds, and upon the issuance of bonds under the provisions hereof, [such bonds] shall constitute a contract with the holders of such bonds.
(1971 Ga. Laws, page 2589, § 25)
Sec. 3.41. - Monies received considered trust funds.
All monies received pursuant to the authority of this Act, whether as proceeds from the sale of revenue bonds, as grants or other contributions, or as revenues, income, fees and earnings, shall be deemed to be trust funds to be held and applied solely as provided in this Act.
(1971 Ga. Laws, page 2589, § 26)
Sec. 3.42. - Purpose of Authority.
Without limiting the generality of any provisions of the Act, the general purpose of the Authority is declared to be that of acquiring, constructing, equipping, maintaining, improving and operating airports and landing fields for the use of aircraft, including any related buildings and the usual and convenient facilities appertaining to such undertakings and extensions and improvements of such facilities, acquiring the necessary property therefor, both real and personal, and to lease or sell any or all of such facilities including real property and to do any and all things deemed by the Authority necessary, convenient or desirable for and incident to the efficient and proper development and operation of such types of undertakings.
(1971 Ga. Laws, page 2589, § 27)
Sec. 3.43. - Imposition of fees and charges.
The Authority is hereby authorized to prescribe and fix and collect rates, fees, tolls and charges, and to revise from time to time and collect such rates, fees, tolls and charges for the services, facilities or commodities furnished, including leases, concessions or sub-leases or its lands or facilities, and in anticipation of the collection of the revenues and income of such undertakings or projects.
(1971 Ga. Laws, page 2589, § 28)
Sec. 3.44. - Budget of the authority.
The Authority is hereby authorized to prepare a budget for the carrying out of its powers and the governing authorities of the City of Perry and Houston county agree to each be responsible for one-half of any unfunded portion of said budget after said budget has been ratified by said governing authorities.
(Act of 2-15-94, § 11)
Editor's note— An Act adopted Feb. 15, 1994, amended the Related Laws by adding § 3.44, and renumbered former §§ 3.44—3.48 as §§ 3.45—3.49.
Sec. 3.45. - Establishment of rules and regulations for operation of projects.
It shall be the duty of the Authority to prescribe rules and regulations for the operation of the project or projects constructed under the provisions of this Act, including the basis on which airports and landing fields for the use of aircraft shall be furnished.
(1971 Ga. Laws, page 2589, § 29; Act of 2-15-94, § 11)
Note— See the editor's note to § 3.44.
Sec. 3.46. - Powers declared supplemental and additional.
The foregoing sections of this Act shall be deemed to provide an additional and alternative method for the doing of the things authorized thereby and shall be regarded as supplemental and additional to powers conferred by other laws, and shall not be regarded as in derogation of any powers now existing.
(1971 Ga. Laws, page 2589, § 30; Act of 2-15-94, § 11)
Note— See the editor's note to § 3.44.
Sec. 3.47. - Liberal construction of Act.
This Act being for the purpose of promoting the health, morals and general welfare of the citizens of the United States, of the State of Georgia, of Houston County, and the City of Perry, shall be liberally construed to effect the purposes hereof.
(1971 Ga. Laws, page 2589, § 31; Act of 2-15-94, §§ 11, 12)
Note— See the editor's note to § 3.44.
Sec. 3.48. - Power of eminent domain.
Through the use and power of eminent domain, the Authority shall have the right, power, privilege and authority to condemn real property, rights-of-way of [or] easement[s] for the purpose of carrying out the provisions of this Act, [and] any such condemnation shall be conducted in accordance with the laws of this state.
(1971 Ga. Laws, page 2589, § 32; Act of 2-15-94, § 11)
Note— See the editor's note to § 3.44.
Sec. 3.49. - Jurisdiction over property owned by authority.
All property, the title to which shall vest in said Authority shall be subject to the jurisdiction of the county wherein such property shall lie.
(1971 Ga. Laws, page 2589, § 33; Act of 2-15-94, § 11)
Note— See the editor's note to § 3.44.
