ARTICLE I. - IN GENERAL

Sec. 8-1. - Business registration.
(a)
Purpose of business registration. The purpose of the business registration requirement established herein is not for regulatory purposes but rather to facilitate the collection of ad valorem personal property taxes on personal property owned by businesses and practitioners in unincorporated areas of the county by requiring that such businesses and practitioners register with the county on an annual basis.
(b)
Business registration required. All businesses and practitioners with a place of business in unincorporated areas of the county that are not otherwise exempt from registration under this chapter must register with the county as provided for herein.
(c)
Exemptions. The following shall be exempt from the requirements of this chapter:
(1)
Any business or practitioner that is exempt by law from complying with local business registration requirements.
(2)
Members of the State Bar of Georgia shall not be subject to the requirements of this chapter in connection with their practice of law within the county. Such members of the State Bar of Georgia, however, are required to timely file ad valorem property tax returns and to timely pay applicable taxes owing in the county.
(3)
Any practitioner whose office is maintained by and who is employed in practice exclusively by the United States, the State of Georgia, or a city or county of the State of Georgia.
(4)
Motor carriers pursuant to O.C.G.A. § 40-1-116.
(d)
Filing for registration.
(1)
On or before December 31 of each year, a business or practitioner subject to this business registration section shall file with the county, on a form approved by and available from the county, a signed business registration setting forth the name of the business or practitioner and all locations in the unincorporated county where the registrant's business is carried on.
(2)
In the event that a business or practitioner commences business after January 1 in any year, the deadline for such business or practitioner to submit a business registration for that year shall be 30 days following commencement of the business.
(e)
Business registration certificate.
(1)
Upon the timely receipt of a business registration, the county shall issue a business registration certificate to the business or practitioner.
(2)
A business registration certificate shall be effective as of January 1 of the year following the registration deadline and shall remain valid until the following December 31. If a business or practitioner commences business after January 1, then its business registration certificate for that year shall be effective upon the date of issuance and shall remain valid until the following December 31.
(3)
Businesses and practitioners subject to this business registration section shall post the county business registration certificate issued to them in a conspicuous place at their place of business and shall keep the certificate there at all times while the certificate remains valid.
(f)
No occupation tax imposed. No business or occupation tax shall be imposed on any business or practitioner required to register hereunder. The county shall charge no fee for the issuance of a business registration certificate hereunder, except as provided in subsection (i) of this section.
(g)
Evidence of personal property ad valorem tax payment required. Businesses and practitioners subject to this business registration section shall show evidence that all personal property ad valorem taxes due and payable to the county have been paid prior to the issuance of a business registration certificate hereunder. Such evidence may include a receipt for the payment of such personal property ad valorem taxes issued by the county tax commissioner.
(h)
Evidence of state license required. Each business and practitioner that is required to maintain a license issued by the state to carry on such business or practice shall present proof of such licensure to the county prior to the issuance of a business registration certificate hereunder. This requirement shall not apply to members of the State Bar of Georgia with respect to their practice of law in the unincorporated county. Such members of the State Bar of Georgia, however, shall be required to timely file ad valorem property tax returns and to pay applicable taxes owing in the county.
(i)
In compatibility with zoning. Issuance of a business registration certificate may be denied for a business which is incompatible with the zoning classification applicable to its location.
(j)
Late fee. Any business or practitioner that submits the business registration to the county more than 60 days after the applicable deadline prescribed herein shall be required to pay a late fee in the amount of $50.00. A business registration certificate shall not be issued to such business or practitioner until the payment of the late fee.
(k)
Enforcement. Businesses and practitioners who fail or refuse to register with the county as required by this section shall be deemed in violation of this section and may, at the discretion of the county, be issued a citation and summoned to appear before the magistrate court of the county and be subject to a civil fine not to exceed $500.00 upon a finding of a violation of this section. Nothing in this subsection shall preclude the county from issuing such violators a warning notice in lieu of a citation and summons upon a violation of this section. The issuance of such a warning notice shall not preclude the county from issuing a citation and summons to such violator upon a failure to cure such a violation within 60 days after the issuance of such warning notice or upon subsequent violations of this section.
(l)
Waiver of late fee and enforcement provisions. The late fee and enforcement provisions hereunder may be waived at the discretion of the county administrator or board of commissioners for year 2017 business registrations.
Sec. 8-2. - Body tattoo and piercing establishments to be regulated by board of health.
Body tattoo and body piercing establishments in unincorporated areas of the county shall be subject to the regulation of the county board of health pursuant to state law, including, but not limited to, O.C.G.A. §§ 31-40-1 et seq., 31-5-1 et seq., and 31-3-4.
(Code 2008, § 41-101)
Secs. 8-3—8-22. - Reserved.
