Chapter 1 - GENERAL PROVISIONS

Sec. 1-1. - How Code designated and cited.
The provisions embraced in the following chapters and sections shall constitute and be designated "The Code of Oglethorpe County, Georgia," and may be so cited. This Code may also be referred to by the shortened title "Oglethorpe County Code."
(Code 2008, § 1-101)
Sec. 1-2. - Rules of construction.
In the construction of this Code and of all sections, the following rules shall be observed unless such construction would be inconsistent with the manifest intent of the board of commissioners. Where applicable, the rules of construction provided by state law shall also be observed.
(1)
General rule. All words and phrases shall be construed and understood according to the common and approved usage of the language; but technical words and phrases and such others as may have acquired a peculiar and appropriate meaning in the law shall be construed and understood according to such peculiar and appropriate meaning.
(2)
Gender, singular and plural. Every word in any Code provision or section importing the masculine gender shall extend to and be applied to females as well as males; and every word importing the singular number only shall extend and be applied to several persons or things as well as to one person or thing; and every word importing the plural number only shall extend and be applied to one person or thing as well as to several persons or things.
(3)
Tenses. The use of any verb in the present tense shall include the future when applicable.
(4)
Joint authority. All words purporting to give a joint authority to three or more county officers or other persons shall be construed as giving such authority to a majority of such officers or other persons unless it shall be otherwise expressly declared in the law giving the authority.
(5)
Delegation of authority. Whenever a provision requires the head of a department or other officer of the county to do some act or perform some duty, it shall be construed to authorize subordinates to do the required act or perform the required duty unless the terms of the provision designate otherwise.
(6)
Computation of time. The time within which an act is to be done as provided in any Code provision or section or in any order issued pursuant to any section, when expressed in days, shall be computed by excluding the first day and including the last, except that if the last day is a Saturday, Sunday or a legal holiday it shall be excluded; and when any such time is expressed in hours the whole of Sunday, from 12:00 midnight to 12:00 midnight, shall be excluded. When the period of time prescribed is less than seven days, intermediate Saturdays, Sundays, and legal holidays shall be excluded in the computation.
(7)
Overlapping provisions. Where any provision of this Code imposes greater restrictions upon the subject matter than any general provisions imposed by this Code, the provision imposing the greater restriction or regulation shall be applicable.
(Code 2008, § 1-102)
Sec. 1-3. - Definitions.
Where applicable, words and meanings shall have the definitions provided by state law. In addition, words and phrases used in this Code shall have the following meanings, unless otherwise specified.
Advice and consent. Whenever the term "advice and consent" is used in this Code, it shall be construed to mean an affirmative vote of the majority of the entire board of commissioners.
Board of commissioners, board of county commissioners, county board of commissioners, county commission and the commission. The terms "board of commissioners," "board of county commissioners," "county board of commissioners," "county commission" and "the commission" mean the board of commissioners of Oglethorpe County, Georgia.
Chairman. The term "chairman" means the chairman of the board of commissioners.
County. The term "the county" or "this county" means Oglethorpe County, Georgia.
Fee schedule or schedule of fees and charges. The term "fee schedule" or "schedule of fees and charges" means the official consolidated list maintained in the county clerk's office that lists rates for utility or other public enterprises, fees of any nature, deposit amounts and various charges as determined from time to time by the board of commissioners.
Governing authority, governing body. The term "governing authority" or "governing body" means the board of commissioners.
Misdemeanor. The term "misdemeanor" means a violation of the state criminal law punishable by a fine not in excess of $1,000.00 or confinement in a county or other jail for a term not exceeding 12 months, or by both such fine and imprisonment.
Number. A term importing the singular number only may extend and be applied to several persons and things as well as to one person and thing.
Oath. The term "oath" shall be construed to include an affirmation in all cases in which, by law, an affirmation may be substituted for an oath, and in such cases the terms "affirm" and "affirmed" shall be equivalent to the terms "swear" or "sworn."
O.C.G.A. The abbreviation "O.C.G.A." means the Official Code of Georgia Annotated.
Or, and. The term "or" may be read "and" and the term "and" may be read "or," if the sense requires it.
Ordinance. The term "ordinance" means a legislative act of the board of commissioners of a general and permanent nature.
Owner. The term "owner," when applied to a building or to land, includes any part owner, joint owner, tenant in common, or joint tenant by the entirety, of the whole or a part of such building or land.
Person. The term "person" includes a corporation, firm, agency, partnership, association, organization, government, and any other group acting as a unit, as well as an individual.
Personal property. The term "personal property" includes every specie of property except real property, as hereinafter defined.
Preceding, following. The terms "preceding" and "following" mean next before and next after, respectively.
Property. The term "property" means anything of value, including, but not limited to, real estate, tangible and intangible personal property, contract rights, choses in action, and interests therein.
Real property. The term "real property" includes lands, tenements, and hereditaments, including structures thereon and lesser interests therein.
Reasonable time or notice. The term "reasonable time or notice" shall be deemed to mean only such time as may be necessary for the prompt performance or the act required.
Resolution. The term "resolution" means a legislative act of the county board of commissioners of a special or temporary character.
Shall, may. Except as otherwise provided by law, the term "shall" is always mandatory and not merely directory; the term "may" is permissive.
Sidewalk. The term "sidewalk" means any portion of a street between the curbline and the adjacent property line, intended for the use of the pedestrians, but shall not include any unimproved areas between the curbline and improved walkways.
Signature, subscription. The term "signature" or "subscription" includes a mark intended as such when the person cannot write.
State. The term "the state" or "this state" means the State of Georgia.
Street. The term "street" means and includes any public way, road, highway, street, avenue, boulevard, parkway, alley, viaduct or bridge, and the approach thereto, within the county.
Tenant or occupant. The term "tenant" or "occupant," when applied to a building or to land, includes any person holding a written or oral lease of, or who occupies the whole or a part of such building or land, either alone or with others.
Week. The term "week" means seven calendar days.
Writing or written. The terms "writing" and "written" include printing and any other mode of representing words and letters.
Year. The term "year" means a calendar year.
(Code 2008, § 1-103)
Sec. 1-4. - Section headings.
The headings of the several sections and subsections of this Code are intended as mere captions for convenience only to indicate the contents of the section or subsection and shall not be deemed or taken to be titles of such sections, nor as any part of the section or subsection, nor unless so expressly provided, shall they be so deemed when any of such sections or subsections, including the headings, is amended or re-enacted.
(Code 2008, § 1-104)
Sec. 1-5. - Effect of repeal or expiration of Code section or ordinance.
(a)
The repeal of a Code section or ordinance, or its expiration by virtue of any provision contained therein, shall not affect any right accrued or any offense committed, any penalty or punishment incurred, or any proceeding commenced before the repeal took effect or the ordinance expired.
(b)
When any ordinance repealing a former Code section, ordinance, clause or provision, shall be itself repealed, such repeal shall not be construed to revive such former Code section, ordinance, clause, or provision, unless it shall be expressly so provided.
(Code 2008, § 1-105)
Sec. 1-6. - Amending Code.
(a)
All ordinances passed subsequent to this Code which amend, repeal or in any way affect this Code shall be numbered in accordance with the numbering system of this Code and printed for inclusion herein. In the case of repealed chapters, sections, and subsections or any part thereof, by subsequent ordinances, such repealed portions may be excluded from the Code by omission from reprinted pages affected thereby. The subsequent ordinances as numbered and printed, or omitted in the case of repeal, shall be prima facie evidence of such subsequent ordinances until such time as the Code and subsequent ordinances omitted are readopted as a new Code by the board of commissioners.
(b)
Amendments to any of the provisions of this Code may be made by specific reference to the section number of this Code in the following language: "That section (or subsection or chapter) _____ of The Code of Oglethorpe County, Georgia, is amended to read as follows…." The new provisions may then be set out in full as desired.
(c)
In the event a new section not heretofore existing in the Code is to be added, the following language may be used: "The Code of Oglethorpe County, Georgia, is amended by adding a section (or subsection or chapter) to be numbered _____, which section reads as follows…." The new provision shall then be set out in full as desired.
(d)
All sections, chapters, or provisions sought to be repealed must be specifically repealed by section, chapter, or provision number, as the case may be.
(Code 2008, § 1-106)
Sec. 1-7. - Altering Code.
It shall be unlawful for any person to change or amend by additions or deletions any part or portion of this Code, or to insert or delete pages or portions thereof, or to alter or tamper with such Code in any manner whatsoever, except by ordinance or resolution or other official act of the board of commissioners.
(Code 2008, § 1-107)
Sec. 1-8. - Severability.
The sections, paragraphs, sentences, clauses, and phrases of this Code are severable, and if any phrase, clause, sentence, paragraph, or section of this Code shall be declared unconstitutional or otherwise invalid by the valid judgment or decree of a court of competent jurisdiction, such unconstitutionality or invalidity shall not affect any of the remaining phrases, clauses, sentences, paragraphs, and sections of this Code.
(Code 2008, § 1-108)
Sec. 1-9. - General penalties.
(a)
Whenever in this Code or in any ordinance of the county any act is prohibited or is declared to be unlawful, or whenever in such Code or ordinance the doing of any act is declared to be unlawful, and no specific penalty is provided therefor, the violation of such provision of this Code or any ordinance shall subject the person committing the violation to a fine not exceeding $1,000.00 and costs or to imprisonment for a term not exceeding six months, or to both such fine and imprisonment, any and all of such penalties to be imposed at the discretion of the judge of the sentencing court and in a manner consistent with general law, including, without limitation, O.C.G.A. § 15-10-60, to the extent applicable.
(b)
The infliction of a penalty under the provisions of this section shall not prevent the revocation of any permit or license or the taking of other punitive or remedial action where called for or permitted under the provisions of the county's Code.
(Code 2008, § 1-109)
Sec. 1-10. - Ordinances not affected by Code.
(a)
Nothing in this Code or the ordinance adopting this Code shall be construed to repeal or otherwise affect the validity of any of the following:
(1)
Any offense or act committed or done or any penalty or forfeiture incurred or any contract or right established or accruing before the effective date of this Code.
(2)
Any ordinance or resolution promising or guaranteeing the payment of money for the county or authorizing the issuance of any bonds of the county or any evidence of the county's indebtedness.
(3)
Any contract entered into or obligation assumed by the county.
(4)
Any ordinance or resolution fixing the salary of any county officer or employee.
(5)
Any right or franchise granted by the county.
(6)
Any ordinance or resolution dedicating, naming, establishing, locating, relocating, opening, widening, or paving any street or public way in the county.
(7)
Any appropriation ordinance or resolution.
(8)
Any ordinance which, by its own terms, is effective for a stated or limited term.
(9)
Any ordinance providing for local improvements and assessing taxes therefor.
(10)
Any zoning chapter or ordinance.
(11)
Any ordinance or resolution dedicating or accepting any subdivision plat.
(12)
Any ordinance or resolution describing or altering the boundaries of the county.
(13)
The administrative ordinances or resolutions of the county not in conflict or inconsistent with the provisions of this Code.
(14)
Any ordinance or resolution levying or imposing taxes not included in this Code.
(15)
Any ordinance establishing or prescribing street grades in the county.
(16)
Any ordinance setting the rate of ad valorem taxes.
(17)
Any ordinance or resolution establishing current fees, rate and other county charges as prescribed from time to time by the county board of commissioners.
(18)
Any ordinance or resolution establishing county boards, commissions, committees, agencies and similar bodies.
(b)
No such ordinance shall be construed to revive any ordinance or part thereof that has been repealed by a subsequent ordinance that is repealed by this chapter; and all such ordinances are recognized as continuing in full force and effect to the same extent as if set out at length in this Code.
(Code 2008, § 1-110)
