SECTION 1.000 - GENERAL PROVISIONS

Section 1.100 - Title.
This ordinance shall be known, referred to, and recited as the Thomas County Land Use Standards Ordinance.
Section 1.200 - Authority.
The Board of Commissioners of Thomas County enacts this ordinance pursuant to powers conferred upon it by the Georgia State Constitution, Article IX, Section II, Paragraph IV, Planning and Zoning.
Section 1.300 - General purpose and policies.
The Thomas County Land Use Standards Ordinance is related to, based on, consistent with, and adopted to effectuate and implement the provisions of the Thomas County (Unincorporated Areas) Comprehensive Plan in order to preserve, protect, and improve the public health, safety, comfort, good order, appearance, convenience, and general welfare; encourage the most appropriate use of land, water, and resources; preserve and enhance the value of land and the character and stability of residential, agricultural, commercial, and industrial areas; facilitate the adequate and efficient provision of transportation, water, sewerage, schools, parks, recreational facilities, housing, and other services; and, to conserve, develop, utilize, and protect the natural resources within the County.
Section 1.400 - Applicability.
1.410 - General applicability.
This ordinance shall apply to all structures and the use of land throughout the unincorporated area of Thomas County, Georgia. Existing structures and uses that are inconsistent with the provisions of the Ordinance shall be permitted only as provided for in Section 3.263 of this ordinance. All applications filed pursuant to this ordinance shall be required to meet the requirements of this ordinance which are in effect on the date of final decision on the application.
1.420 - General prohibition.
It shall be unlawful for any person to carry out any development that is inconsistent with the requirements of this ordinance and any applicable Comprehensive Plan.
1.430 - Permits and approvals issued prior to effective date.
This ordinance shall not affect lawfully issued building or manufactured home permits, provided that the permit is not allowed to expire.
Section 1.500 - Repeal of conflicting provisions.
All previous zoning Ordinances and/or resolutions of Thomas County, Georgia, are hereby repealed. All Ordinances or parts of Ordinances in conflict with this ordinance and which contain less restrictive requirements than contained herein are hereby repealed. Ordinances or parts of Ordinances which contain more restrictive requirements than contained herein shall govern.
Section 1.600 - Effective date; enactment.
This ordinance shall become effective on August 19, 1996. When any provision of this ordinance is amended; however, the effective date of this ordinance means the effective date of such amendment for the purposes of deciding any question directly controlled by such amendment. Amendments to this ordinance shall become effective on June 9, 2009.
Section 1.700 - Separability.
If any section, subsection, paragraph, sentence, clause, or phrase of this ordinance shall for any reason be held to be unconstitutional, inoperative, or void by a court of competent jurisdiction, such decision shall not affect the validity of the remaining portions of this ordinance, which shall continue in full force and effect. In the event any portion is found to be invalid the remaining Ordinance shall be construed as if the legislative intent was to adopt this ordinance without the unconstitutional, inoperative, or void section, subsection, paragraph, sentence, clause, or phrase. Furthermore, if any provision of this ordinance is held unconstitutional, inoperative, or void as applied to any person or property, such decision shall not apply to any other person or property.
Section 1.800 - Minimum requirements.
The provisions of this ordinance are the minimum requirements necessary to accomplish the purposes of this ordinance. The provisions of this ordinance shall not be deemed to annul or abridge or otherwise affect in any manner any easements, covenants, or other agreements between parties. However, whenever the provisions of this ordinance impose more restrictive requirements upon land or structures than the provisions of any easements, covenants, or other agreements between parties, the provisions herein shall govern.
