Chapter 30 - CIVIL EMERGENCIES[1]
Footnotes:
--- (1) ---
Cross reference— Emergency services, ch. 38; floods, ch. 50.
State Law reference— Georgia Mutual Aid Act, O.C.G.A. § 36-69-2 et seq.; Interstate Civil Defense and Disaster Compact, O.C.G.A. § 38-3-70; authority to adopt temporary or experimental regulations to cover emergencies or special conditions, O.C.G.A. § 40-6-371(a)(19).

ARTICLE I. - IN GENERAL

Secs. 30-1—30-25. - Reserved.
ARTICLE II. - EMERGENCY MANAGEMENT[2]

Footnotes:
--- (2) ---
Cross reference— Fire prevention and protection, ch. 46; floods, ch. 50.
State Law reference— Georgia Emergency Management Act of 1981, O.C.G.A. § 38-3-1 et seq.

Sec. 30-26. - Definitions.
The following words, terms and phrases, when used in this article, shall have the meanings ascribed to them in this section, except where the context clearly indicates a different meaning:
Emergency management means the preparation for and the carrying out of all emergency and disaster functions other than those functions for which military forces or other state and federal agencies are primarily responsible to prevent, minimize and repair injury and damage resulting from emergencies or disasters, or the imminent threat thereof, of manmade or natural origin. These functions include, without limitation, firefighting services, police services, medical and health services, rescue, engineering, warning services, communications, defense from radiological, chemical and other special weapons, evacuation of persons from stricken areas, emergency welfare services, emergency transportation, plant protection, temporary restoration of public utility services, and other functions related to civilian population, together with all other activities necessary or incidental to total emergency and disaster preparedness for carrying out the foregoing functions.
(Ord. of 6-9-87(2), § I)
Cross reference— Definitions generally, § 1-2.
Sec. 30-27. - Emergency Management Agency—Established; duties.
In agreement with the governing officials of cities and/or towns within the county, there is hereby established the Thomasville-Thomas County Emergency Management Agency. The board of commissioners of the county, with concurrence of officials of cities and towns within the county, shall nominate for appointment by the governor a director of emergency management for the entire county. When appointed, the emergency management director is charged with the following duties:
(1)
To represent the governing officials of the county and cities and/or towns therein on matters pertaining to emergency management.
(2)
To assist county and city officials in organizing county and city department for emergency operations.
(3)
To develop, in conjunction with city and county departments and agencies, the Thomasville-Thomas County plan for emergency functions set forth in section 30-26. Such plan will be in consonance with the state natural disaster operations plan and nuclear emergency operations plan, and shall be submitted to the governing officials of the county and the cities and/or towns therein for approval and thence to the state emergency management agency for approval.
(4)
To maintain the emergency management agency and carry out the day-to-day administration of the county emergency management program, including the submission of required reports to the state emergency management agency.
(5)
To submit reports as required by governing officials in keeping with good management practices, e.g., financial, daily activity, etc.
(6)
To procure, with the authority of governing officials, a facility to be used as the Thomasville-Thomas County emergency operating center.
(7)
To coordinate the activities of the county emergency operating center staff during periods of a declared emergency, and under the supervision of county governing officials.
(Ord. of 6-9-87(2), § II)
Sec. 30-28. - Same—Functions.
(a)
The Thomasville-Thomas County Emergency Management Agency shall be established around existing city and county departments and agencies and the emergency functions listed in section 30-26 are assigned as follows:
EXPAND
Department Emergency functions
(1) Executive Direction and control
(county and city elected officials) Public information
Supply/finance
(2) Police Security
County sheriff's office Movement
City police department Search
Communications
Warning
(3) Fire control Fire control
Rescue*
(4) Public works and engineering Utilities and public services restoration
Hazards analysis
(5) Human resources, including: Human needs, including
a. Division of family and children services Welfare
b. Division of physical health Health control
c. Hospital services Medical and mortuary services
d. Ambulance services Casualty transport
(6) Emergency management Shelter
Radiological protection
Rescue*
Assistance in industrial and institutional emergency planning
Evacuation planning
Emergency transportation
Damage assessment
  *As appropriate to local organization, function can be assigned to an existing department or may be separate.
(b)
Heads of departments listed above are responsible for developing the plan for their assigned emergency function. Such plans will be submitted through the emergency management director to the board of commissioners and governing officials of cities and/or towns for approval.
(Ord. of 6-9-87(2), § III)
Sec. 30-29. - Emergency powers.
In the event of manmade natural disaster, actual enemy attack upon the United States or any other emergency which may affect the lives and property of the citizens of the county the chairman of the board of commissioners, jointly with the mayors of the Cities of Thomasville, Meigs, Ochlochnee, Coolidge, Pavo, Barwick and Boston, or in their absence a legally appointed successor, and the county manager may declare that a state of emergency exists and thereafter shall have and may exercise for such period as such state of emergency exists or continues the following emergency powers:
(1)
To enforce all rules, laws and regulations relating to emergency management, and to assume direct operational control over all emergency management resources.
(2)
To seize, take for temporary use or condemn any private property for the protection of the public.
(3)
To sell, lend, give or distribute all or any such property or supplies among the inhabitants of the county; to maintain a strict accounting of property or supplies distributed and for funds received for such property or supplies.
(4)
To perform and exercise such other functions and duties and take such emergency actions as may be necessary to prepare and secure the safety, protection and well-being of the inhabitants of the county.
(Ord. of 6-9-87(2), § IV)
Sec. 30-30. - Volunteers.
All persons, other than officers and employees of the cities, towns and county, performing emergency functions pursuant to this article, shall serve with or without compensation. While engaged in such emergency functions, duly assigned volunteers shall have the same immunities as county officers and employees.
(Ord. of 6-9-87(2), § V)
Sec. 30-31. - Penalty.
Any person violating any provision of this article, or any rule, order or regulation made pursuant to this article, shall, upon conviction thereof, be punishable as provided in section 1-12.
(Ord. of 6-9-87(2), § VI)
