Chapter 66 - PARKS AND RECREATION[1]
Footnotes:
--- (1) ---
Cross reference— Alcoholic beverages, ch. 6; library, ch. 54; traffic and vehicles, ch. 90.
State Law reference— Power to provide parks, recreation areas, programs and facilities, Ga. Const. art. 9, sec. 2, par. 3(a)(5); authority to construct and operate parks, swimming pools, golf courses, recreation grounds and buildings used for sports, O.C.G.A. § 36-34-3; establishment of recreation systems, O.C.G.A. § 36-64-1 et seq.; state commission on physical fitness created, O.C.G.A. § 50-12-40 et seq.

ARTICLE I. - IN GENERAL

Secs. 66-1—66-25. - Reserved.
ARTICLE II. - RECREATION ADVISORY BOARD[2]

Footnotes:
--- (2) ---
Cross reference— Boards, commissions and authorities, § 2-111 et seq.

Sec. 66-26. - Created.
There shall be created by contract a Thomas County-Thomasville Recreation Advisory Board. That contract shall be incorporated by reference in this article and a copy shall be maintained in the office of the county clerk.
(Code 1977, § 1-5022)
Sec. 66-27. - Duties.
It shall be the duty of the Thomas County-Thomasville Recreation Advisory Board to:
(1)
Conduct or ensure the conduct of studies and analyses related to recreational matters and make recommendations on leisure activities, programs and improvements on short and long range requirements of the citizens of Thomasville and Thomas County.
(2)
Recommend to the city council which community agencies should have responsibility for specific recreational programs and activities.
(3)
Monitor the receipt of the one percent county and municipal sales and use tax and make recommendations to the city council on the prudent use and disposition of these funds.
(4)
Embrace the support and participation on the part of the outlying communities and ensure that these municipalities are adequately resourced to meet the leisure activity needs of citizens.
(5)
Provide the best recreational programs and facilities within existing budget and personnel allocations.
Sec. 66-28. - Composition.
The Thomas County-Thomasville Recreation Advisory Board consists of a total of 13 members appointed as follows:
(1)
Ten voting members.
a.
Four members appointed by the City of Thomasville.
b.
Three members appointed by Thomas County.
c.
Two members appointed by majority vote of small town mayors.
d.
One member appointed by the YMCA Board of Directors.
(2)
Three non-voting ex-officio members.
a.
Director, Thomasville Public Works.
b.
CEO, Thomasville YMCA.
c.
Recreation coordinator.
(Res. of 2-26-13)
Sec. 66-29. - Terms of office of members.
(a)
The terms of office for the first Thomas County-Thomasville Recreation Advisory Board will be staggered. The first board's staggered terms will be:
(1)
Two city appointees, one county appointee, and one small community appointee.
(2)
Two city appointees, one county appointee, and one small community appointee.
(3)
Two city appointees, and one county appointee.
(b)
All terms of office will coincide with the fiscal year, January through December, of the city's parks and recreation department.
(c)
Each appointing body reserves the right to review its representatives annually and make new appointments at its discretion, if deemed necessary.
(Res. of 2-26-13)
Sec. 66-30. - Filling of vacancies.
Vacancies on the Thomas County-Thomasville Recreation Advisory Board shall be filled in the same manner as appointments are made. If a vacancy occurs prior to the expiration of a member's term, the new appointee shall complete the unexpired term.
Sec. 66-31. - Compensation of members.
Members of the Thomas County-Thomasville Recreation Advisory Board shall receive no compensation, but may be reimbursed for any reasonable and necessary expense incurred in the performance of recreation business.
Sec. 66-32. - Officers.
The officers of the Thomas County-Thomasville Recreation Advisory Board shall be a chairman, vice chairman and a secretary, elected from those serving on the board. These officers shall perform the duties prescribed by the appointing bodies and operate in concert with section 66-27.
Sec. 66-33. - Meetings.
The Thomas County-Thomasville Recreation Advisory Board will meet a minimum of four times a year or as frequently as necessary to be determined by the board chairman.
Sec. 66-34. - Subcommittees.
Members of the Thomas County-Thomasville Recreation Advisory Board will serve on various subcommittees relating to recreation, as appointed by the board chairman.
Secs. 66-35—66-50. - Reserved.
ARTICLE III. - RECREATION DEPARTMENT

Sec. 66-51. - Headquarters.
The headquarters for the Thomasville-Thomas County recreation department shall be located in Thomasville, Georgia.
Sec. 66-52. - Purpose.
The purpose of the recreation department shall be to extend public recreational services and facilities to all citizens, adult and juvenile, in the county, for the educational, cultural and recreational enjoyment of the citizens of the county.
Secs. 66-53—66-70. - Reserved.
ARTICLE IV. - RIFLE RANGE

Sec. 66-71. - Rules, regulations.
The rules and regulations for the operation of the Thomasville-Thomas County rifle range shall be as follows:
(1)
No alcoholic beverages will be allowed on the premises.
(2)
No one will be allowed on the range who has been drinking alcoholic beverages or appears to be under other forms of intoxicants or disabling drugs.
(3)
No bottles or cans will be allowed on the range.
(4)
No one under the age of 18 will be allowed on the range unless accompanied by a parent and the parent shall remain on the range the entire time that the minor child is present on the range.
(5)
No vehicles will be allowed on the range. Vehicles will be permitted only upon the access of the designated parking area and the designated parking area.
(6)
There will be no shooting allowed except upon the authorized range.
(7)
No more than five shooters will be allowed on the firing line at any one time without prior written authorization from the chief of police.
(8)
Each shooter will be required to remove and properly dispose of all used supplies upon completion of the target practice.
(9)
Any damage done to the facility will be charged to the person causing the damage.
(10)
Any citizen violating these rules may be suspended from using the facility and is subject to additional restrictions as determined by the chief of police.
(11)
No person is allowed down range until all persons on the firing line have completed their shooting and all weapons on the range are unloaded.
(12)
Each person wishing to use the facilities of the range must reserve a time from the Thomasville police department. Then each person must report to the police department at least half an hour prior to the range appointment.
(13)
Each person reporting to the police department will be given a copy of the rules and regulations of the range and be required to sign a waiver of the city's and county's responsibilities.
(14)
The citizen will then report to the scale house personnel at the landfill.
(15)
Each person leaving the range will check back in with the scale house personnel upon leaving of the range.
The foregoing rules and regulations may be changed and amended by the chief of police at his discretion.
(Ord. of 12-13-77)
Secs. 66-72—66-90. - Reserved.
ARTICLE V. - HUNTING ON COUNTY PROPERTY[3]

Footnotes:
--- (3) ---
Cross reference— Offenses and miscellaneous provisions, ch. 62.

Sec. 66-91. - Scope.
The provisions of this article shall apply to persons hunting on county property.
Sec. 66-92. - Use of shotguns.
Hunting with shotguns is permitted on county property provided the rules and regulations of the state game and fish commission are observed.
(Res. of 12-19-83)
Sec. 66-93. - Prohibited near buildings, airport facilities.
Hunting within 200 yards of any county buildings, or city-county buildings, runways or taxiways at the airport is prohibited.
(Res. of 12-19-83)
Sec. 66-94. - Use of rifles, handguns and shotgun slugs.
The use of rifles, handguns and shotgun slugs is prohibited except at the city-county rifle and pistol range.
(Res. of 12-19-83)
Sec. 66-95. - Use of fields set aside for hunting; obedience to posted signs.
Fields have been set aside for hunting. "No Shooting" signs are posted on others.
(Res. of 12-19-83)
Sec. 66-96. - Motor vehicles must stay on roads.
The operation of privately owned motor vehicles on county property or on city/county property at the airport is prohibited except on public roads.
(Res. of 12-19-83)
Sec. 66-97. - Damaging, defacing property.
To damage, destroy or deface any county property, including buildings, equipment, agricultural crops, fences, gates or signs, is prohibited.
(Res. of 12-19-83)
Sec. 66-98. - Violations.
Violators of the rules set out in this article will be prosecuted as trespassers.
(Res. of 12-19-83)
