ARTICLE 20. - S-1 SENSITIVE LAND—FLOOD HAZARD[10]

Footnotes:
--- (10) ---
Cross reference— Floods, ch. 42.

Section 2001. - Purpose.
A.
S-1 is an "overlay district," which applies additional standards of specific areas which may lie within any of the districts referred to in articles 5 through 19. In each zoning district located within the boundaries of the S-1 district, both the regulations of that district and the regulations of the S-1 district apply. If required development standards are specified for the same item in both district articles, the more stringent governs.
B.
Within the land area covered by this ordinance, there exists land which is subject to periodic flooding and inundation. Within these areas, development standards are intended to reduce the proliferation of unsuitable development and minimize destruction of life and property due to flood.
Section 2002. - Features which make land suitable for inclusion within the S-1 district.
Areas subject to periodic flooding are included within the S-1 district. Such areas are indicated on the Federal Emergency Management Agency (FEMA) Flood Insurance Program Flood Hazard Boundary Maps (FHBM) for Upson County.
Section 2003. - Boundaries of S-1 districts.
The flood hazard boundary maps (FHBM) and the flood insurance rate maps (FIRM) for Upson County are hereby made a part of this ordinance by reference, and are used to determine the location and extent of floodprone areas and the boundaries of the S-1 district.
Section 2004. - Development standards for S-1 districts.
A.
As already stated S-1 is an "overlay district", which applies additional standards to specific areas which may lie within any of the districts referred to in articles 5 through 19. In each zoning district located within the boundaries of the S-1 district, both the regulations of the S-1 district [and the other district] apply. If required development standards are specified for the same item in both district articles, the more stringent governs.
B.
The development standards and other requirements for the S-1 district are contained in the Upson County Flood Damage Prevention Ordinance [chapter 42, article II of the Code of Upson County, Georgia]. That ordinance must be consulted for complete details of development standards associated with the S-1 overlay district.
