ARTICLE 24. - POWERS AND DUTIES OF VARIOUS OFFICIALS CONCERNING THIS ORDINANCE

Section 2401. - Purpose.
This article formalizes the powers and duties of the administrative officer, the planning commission, the board of commissioners, and other officials as may be appropriate where this ordinance is concerned. It should also provide a convenient list of services provided by each official to aid in complying with the requirements of this ordinance.
Section 2402. - (Reserved).
Section 2403. - Powers and duties of the administrative officer.
The administrative officer has the power and duty to provide the following services related to this ordinance:
A.
Provide initial information about this ordinance upon request.
B.
Advise how to contact members of the planning commission, the board of commissioners, or other officials as may be appropriate for services provided by those bodies or officials.
C.
Maintain official map on public display.
D.
Determine in which zoning district a parcel of land lies.
E.
Issue building permits under procedures outlined in section 404 of this ordinance.
F.
Issue certificates of occupancy under procedures outlined in section 405 of this ordinance.
G.
Offer practical suggestions on how to comply with the requirements of this ordinance.
H.
Maintain complete records concerning this ordinance and related matters, and make such records available to the public upon request.
I.
Supervise all professional and clerical personnel employed in connection with the performance of the functions of the administrative officer.
J.
Serve as administrative secretary to the planning commission and the board of appeals.
K.
Issue certificates of zoning compliance for all permitted uses as well as for variances or other applicable procedures which are granted by the planning commission.
L.
Collect data and keep informed as to the best zoning practices, in order that he may be qualified to make recommendations to the planning commission and the board of commissioners concerning amendments to this ordinance.
M.
Research and make reference to the zoning ordinance in connection with each and every application received for variance or other applicable procedures and to make written recommendations to the planning commission on each such application as to whether:
1.
The granting of such variance or other applicable procedures would result in an encroachment on existing land uses or zoning districts already established on adjoining or nearby neighborhood properties protected by the zoning ordinance from such adverse impact.
2.
Sufficient authority exists in the zoning ordinance to allow the planning commission to grant the variance or other applicable procedures.
N.
Maintain all written recommendations to other officials of the county in the application file to which each pertains.
O.
Set off-street parking requirements for certain land uses as necessary, according to procedures contained in the Upson County Standard for Off-Street Parking and Service Facilities (appendix B [to this appendix]).
Section 2404. - Powers and duties of the planning commission.
The planning commission has the power and duty to provide the following services related to this ordinance:
A.
Advise the board of commissioners on applications for amendment to this ordinance by examining amendment applications and providing written recommendations with reasons for the recommendations to the board of commissioners as specified in section 410.
B.
Dispense general information about this ordinance to the public upon request.
C.
Propose amendments to this ordinance.
D.
Maintain and update the Upson County Land Use Plan (where one exists) so that it may provide a current database with which decisions on proposed amendments to this ordinance may be made that utilize sound planning principles.
E.
Carry out an ongoing comprehensive planning program which, like the land use plan (where one exists), will provide current data on which decisions regarding this ordinance may be based that utilize sound planning principles.
F.
Advise the board of commissioners on matters of zoning and annexation, as appropriate.
G.
Authorize variances according to procedures specified in section 407.
H.
Accept applications for appeal of an action of the administrative officer and render official decisions on them according to procedures specified in section 406.
I.
Authorize special exceptions under procedures contained in section 409.
J.
Accept applications for appeal of an action of the historic preservation commission and render official decisions on them.
Section 2405. - (Reserved.)
Section 2406. - Powers and duties of the board of commissioners.
The board of commissioners have the power and duty to provide the following services related to this ordinance:
A.
Accept applications for amendment of this ordinance and render official decisions on them after referring them to the planning commission for review and recommendations as specified in section 410.
B.
Propose amendments to this ordinance.
Section 2407. - Powers and duties of the historic preservation commission.
The activities of the historic preservation commission are limited to areas lying within the historic district. See article 22, which details the establishment of the historic preservation commission, for details on the powers and duties of the historic preservation commission.
