Chapter 74 - SOLID WASTE[1]
Footnotes:
--- (1) ---
Cross reference— Buildings and building regulations, ch. 22; environment, ch. 38; health and sanitation, ch. 46; manufactured homes and trailers, ch. 54; utilities, ch. 90.
State Law reference— Georgia Comprehensive Solid Waste Management Act, O.C.G.A. § 12-8-20 et seq.; local, multijurisdictional and regional solid waste plans, O.C.G.A. § 12-8-31.1; yard trimmings disposal restrictions, O.C.G.A. § 12-8-40.2; Georgia Hazardous Waste Management Act, O.C.G.A. § 12-8-60 et seq.; Litter Control Law, O.C.G.A. § 16-7-40 et seq.; transporting garbage or waste across state or county boundaries without permission, O.C.G.A. § 36-1-16; littering highways, O.C.G.A. § 40-6-249; transportation of biomedical waste, O.C.G.A. § 40-6-253.1; solid waste management education program, establishment of Georgia Clean and Beautiful Advisory Committee and Interagency Council on Solid Waste Management, O.C.G.A. § 50-8-7.3; authorization to provide garbage and solid waste collection and disposal, Ga. Const. art. IX, § II, ¶ III(a)(2).

ARTICLE I. - IN GENERAL

Secs. 74-1—74-25. - Reserved.
ARTICLE II. - COLLECTION AND DISPOSAL[2]

Footnotes:
--- (2) ---
Editor's note— Ord. No. 254 , §§ 1—13, adopted October 11, 2016, repealed the former article II, §§ 74-26—74-41, and enacted a new article II as set out herein. The former article II pertained to similar subject matter and derived from Ord. No. 110, adopted April 9, 1998.

Sec. 74-26. - Purpose.
The board of commissioners of Upson County, Georgia, hereby find that the public health, safety and well-being of the citizens of the unincorporated area of Upson County would be adversely affected should individual citizens be allowed to dispose of solid waste and scrap tires, as defined hereinbelow, upon private property. The board of commissioners of Upson County, Georgia, further find that it would be in the public interest for the board to pass an ordinance further regulating garbage, scrap tires, and other solid waste collection and disposal in the unincorporated area of the county.
( Ord. No. 254 , § 1, 10-11-2016)
Sec. 74-27. - Definitions.
Brown goods means furniture, furnishings, mattresses and other bedding materials, cardboard boxes, and other items of like kind.
Church means permanent place of public religious worship. That has meetings less than three times a month consisting of two or more people for any activity not to include grounds and/or building maintenance.
Commercial establishment means any hotel, motel, apartment dwelling, rooming house, business, industrial, public or semi-public establishment of any nature or kind whatsoever, other than a one- or two-family dwelling unit or condominium.
Commercial solid waste means all types of solid waste generated by churches, stores, offices, restaurants, warehouses, and other non-manufacturing activities, excluding residential and industrial waste.
Construction/demolition waste means waste building materials and rubble resulting from construction, remodeling, repair, and demolition operations of pavements, houses, commercial buildings and other structures. Such wastes include, but are not limited to wood, bricks, metal, concrete, wall board, paper cardboard, inert waste, landfill material, and other nonputrescible wastes which have a low potential for groundwater contamination.
Dispose means to get rid of, deal with conclusively, or transfer to the control of another.
Dump means to throw, discard, place, deposit, discharge, burn, or dispose of a substance.
Garbage means food waste, including waste accumulation of animal or vegetable matter used or intended for use as food, or that attends the preparation, use, cooking, dealing in or storing of meat, fish, fowl, fruit or vegetables.
Industrial waste means solid waste generated by manufacturing or industrial processes or operations that is not a hazardous waste regulated under the Georgia Hazardous Waste Management Act. Such waste includes, but is not limited to, waste resulting from the following manufacturing processes. Electric power generations; fertilizer and agricultural chemicals; food related products and by-products; inorganic chemicals; iron and steel products; leather and leather products; nonferrous metal and foundry products; organic chemicals, plastics and resins, pulp and paper; rubber and miscellaneous plastic products; stone, glass, clay, and concrete products; textiles; transportation equipment, and water treatment. This term does not include mining waste or oil and gas waste.
Litter means any discarded or abandoned refuse, rubbish, junk or other materials.
Manufactured home community means a lot used or intended for use as a residential area occupied by one or more manufactured homes.
Municipal solid waste means any solid waste derived from households including garbage, trash, and sanitary waste in septic tanks and means solid waste from single-family and multifamily residences, hotels and motels, bunkhouses, campgrounds, picnic grounds, and day use recreation areas. The term includes yard trimmings and commercial solid waste, but does not include construction and demolition waste and solid waste from mining, agricultural, or silvicultural operations or industrial processes or operations.
Open dump means a disposal facility or resident in which solid waste from one or more sources is consolidated and left to decompose, burn, or to otherwise create a threat to human health or the environment.
Owner means any person, firm or corporation owning, leasing, renting, occupying, or managing any premises within the jurisdiction of the Upson County Board of Commissioners.
Person means the State of Georgia or any other state agency or institution thereof, any municipality, county, political subdivision, public or private corporation, solid waste authority, special district empowered to engage in solid waste management activities, individual, partnership, association or other entity in Georgia or any other state. This term also includes any officer or governing or managing body of any municipality, political subdivision, solid waste authority, special district empowered to engage in solid waste activities, or public or private corporation in Georgia or any other state. This term also includes employees, departments, and agencies of the federal government.
Plastic bag means a polyethylene or other heavy duty plastic bag meeting the national sanitation foundation standard of at least 1.5 mills and not exceeding a 30-gallon capacity, with securing twist ties.
Putrescible waste means wastes that are capable of being decomposed by microorganisms. Examples of putrescible waste include but are not necessarily limited to kitchen wastes, animal manure, offal, hatchery and poultry processing plant wastes, and garbage.
Recovered materials means those materials which have known use, reuse, or recycling potential; can be feasibly used, reused, or recycled; and have been diverted or removed from the solid waste stream for sale, use, reuse, or recycling whether or not requiring subsequent separation and processing.
Recycling means any process by which materials which would otherwise become solid waste are collected, separated, or processed and reused or returned to use in the form of raw materials or products.
Refuse means garbage, litter, rubbish or commercial solid waste.
Residential unit means any freestanding structure or shelter or any part thereof used or constructed for use as a residence.
Rubbish means discarded waste paper, cartons, boxes, wood, tree branches, yard trimmings, furniture, appliances, metals, cans, glass crockery, dunnage and/or similar materials.
Sanitary landfill means a disposal site where putrescible solid wastes are disposed of by means of placing an earth cover thereon and which is approved by the Georgia Department of Natural Resources for such purpose.
Scrap tire means a tire that is no longer suitable for its original intended purpose because of wear, damage, or defect.
Scrap tire generator means any person who generates scrap tires as defined in Section 391-3-4-.19(2.i) of the Georgia Rules of Solid Waste Management.
Scrap tire carrier means any person engaged in picking up or transporting scrap tires not otherwise exempted under Section 391-3-4-.19(5.g) for the purpose of removal to a scrap tire processor, end user, or disposal facility.
Solid waste means any garbage or refuse, sludge from a wastewater treatment plant, water supply treatment plant, or air pollution control facility; and other discarded material including solid, semi-solid, or contained gaseous material resulting from industrial, commercial, mining, and agricultural operations and community activities, but does not include recovered materials; solid or dissolved materials in domestic sewage; solid or dissolved materials in irrigation return flows or industrial discharges that are point sources subject to permit under 33 U.S.C. Section 1342; or source, special nuclear, or by-product material as defined by the federal Atomic Energy Act of 1954, as amended (68 Stat. 923).
Solid waste handling means the storage, collection, transportation, treatment utilization, processing or disposal of solid waste or any combination of such activities.
Solid waste handling facility means any facility the primary purpose of which is the storage, collection, transportation, treatment, utilization, processing, or disposal, or any combination thereof, of solid waste.
Tire retailer means any person engaged in the business of selling new or replacement tires.
Waste stream means the total flow of solid waste from residential units, commercial establishments, condominiums, apartments, institutions and the like to its ultimate disposal site or facility.
White goods means household appliances and other items of like kind.
Vacation homes means a secondary resident occupied less than four months a year.
Yard trimmings means leaves, brush, grass clippings, shrub and tree prunings, discarded Christmas trees, nursery and greenhouse vegetative residuals, and vegetative matter resulting from landscaping development and maintenance other than mining, agricultural, and silvicultural operations.
( Ord. No. 254 , § 2, 10-11-2016)
Cross reference— Definitions generally, § 1-2.
Sec. 74-28. - General
(a)
It shall be unlawful for any person to dump, bury, litter, or cause to be dumped, buried or littered any garbage, refuse, rubbish, scrap tires, construction materials, brown or white goods anywhere in the unincorporated area of Upson County.
(b)
It shall be unlawful to drive or operate a vehicle in Upson County hauling municipal, commercial, industrial or residential solid waste that leaks, flows freely or spills from said vehicle.
(c)
Any litter or municipal, commercial, or industrial solid waste hauled on a moving vehicle shall be covered or secured in such a manner that litter will not blow or escape from said vehicle while moving or parked on public or private property in the unincorporated area of Upson County.
(d)
The county shall have the exclusive right to collect and dispose of all residential solid waste within the unincorporated area of the county either through employees of the county or through contract with an entity engaged in the business of residential solid waste collection and disposal.
( Ord. No. 254 , § 3, 10-11-2016)
Sec. 74-29. - Exemptions
(a)
Provisions of this article shall not apply to any individual disposing of putrescible wastes and yard trimmings originating from his residence or farm onto land or facilities owned by him when disposal of such wastes does not thereby adversely affect the public health or violate any county zoning ordinance or state law. This article shall not apply to any individual, corporation, partnership, or cooperative disposing of livestock feeding facility waste from facilities with a total capacity of up to 1,000 cattle or 5,000 swine. If such individual, corporation, partnership, or cooperative shall provide an approved waste disposal system which is capable of properly disposing of the run-off from a "ten-year storm," such individual, corporation, partnership or cooperative shall be further exempt regardless of total per head capacity. Nothing in this article shall limit the right of any person to use poultry or other animal manure for fertilizer.
(b)
Provisions of this article shall not apply to any individual, partnership, corporation or other entity not collecting and disposing of municipal solid waste, commercial solid waste, construction/demolition waste, scrap tires, or industrial waste for a fee, but who are holders of valid solid waste handling permits from the Director of the Environmental Protection Division of the Georgia Department of Natural Resources pursuant to Rules of Georgia Department of Natural Resources Environmental Protection Division 391-3-4-.02 and 391-3-4-.06 for disposal or on-site burial. Such disposal shall be governed by state environmental protection regulations.
(c)
Composting is expressly allowed or permitted pursuant to this article.
(d)
Dead animals shall be disposed of pursuant to state law.
(e)
Provisions of this article requiring the disposal of municipal solid waste and garbage from residences by wheeled containers provided by the county or its contract collector shall not apply to the principal residence of any individual who owns a business located in the unincorporated area of the county and such individual has a dumpster at his/her business for the disposal of municipal solid waste and garbage. This exemption is limited to the principal residence of the owner of the business.
(f)
All persons defined as scrap tire generators, scrap tire carriers, and tire retailers shall handle scrap tires in accordance with the provisions of O.C.G.A. § 12-8-20, et seq. and the Rules for Solid Waste Management, Chapter 391-3-4 applicable to solid waste.
( Ord. No. 254 , § 4, 10-11-2016)
Sec. 74-30. - Prohibited acts.
(a)
No individual, partnership, corporation, or other entity shall engage in solid waste handling except in such a manner as to conform to and comply with this article and all applicable state and federal legislation, rules, regulations and orders.
(b)
No individual, partnership, corporation, or other entity shall collect, remove, transport or dispose of any municipal solid waste or scrap tires within the unincorporated areas of Upson County unless they are so authorized by contract or agreement with the board of commissioners.
(c)
No solid waste or scrap tires may be disposed of by any person in an open dump, nor may any person cause, suffer, allow or permit open dumping on his property.
(d)
The owner or occupant of any premises, office, business establishment, institution, industry, or similar facility shall be responsible for the collection and transportation of all solid waste and scrap tires accumulated at the premises, office, business establishment, institution, or similar facility to a solid waste handling facility operating in compliance with the Georgia Environmental Protection Division Rules and Regulations unless arrangements have been made for such services with a collector operating in compliance with this article.
(e)
No owner or occupant shall allow the accumulation on premises under his or her control, or on or about his or her residential unit or commercial establishment of solid waste or scrap tires where the accumulation of such solid waste or scrap tires creates or may create a health hazard to neighbors or other citizens, is unsightly, or emits foul or obnoxious odors which constitute either a public or private nuisance or is in violation of state law. Such conduct shall constitute a violation of this article. Each day the solid waste or scrap tires remain on the premises may constitute a separate violation of this article.
( Ord. No. 254 , § 5, 10-11-2016)
Sec. 74-31. - Preparation and storage of residential refuse for collection; placement; unacceptable refuse.
(a)
It shall be the duty of both the occupant and owner of every residential unit located in the unincorporated area of Upson County to keep all solid waste generated by each such residential unit pending collection and disposal by the county or its contract collector as follows:
(1)
All solid waste shall be free from excessive liquid and placed in water tight plastic bags with the top secured and placed in a solid waste container. One 95-gallon wheeled container shall be provided at reasonable cost to each residential unit by the county or its contract collector for use by that unit for solid waste storage and disposal purposes.
(2)
Solid waste shall be bagged and stored in wheeled containers furnished by the county or its contract collector which shall be covered at all times. Such containers must be kept clean. A bulk pickup must be scheduled for cardboard boxes, brown and white goods that will not fit in the furnished container. Containers and other items to be collected must be placed at the roadside by 7:00 a.m. on regular or scheduled collection days or on the next collection day if the regular collection day falls on a holiday.
( Ord. No. 254 , § 6, 10-11-2016)
Sec. 74-32. - General conditions of residential collection.
(a)
The county or its contract collector shall provide at a minimum weekly roadside collection of residential solid waste. Brown and white goods shall also be collected from time to time on the day that residential solid waste is collected for each residential unit.
(b)
The county or its designated contract collector may decline to collect solid waste contained in unauthorized containers, any containers that contain excessive liquids, or any residential solid waste not properly contained.
(c)
The county shall not be responsible for the collection of discarded building materials, dirt and rock, nor shall it be responsible for collecting and hauling building materials, trees, tree trimmings, yard trimmings, bushes, or other vegetation or trash or waste material from commercial tree trimmers, landscapers, or building contractors.
(d)
It shall be the duty of every owner, occupant, tenant and lessee of each residential unit to remove and place all solid waste generated by the occupants of each such residential unit in bags placed in the wheeled container furnished for solid waste removal and to place the wheeled container at the location designated for collection on designated pickup days.
(e)
Occupants shall place garbage receptacles on assigned collection days at front roadside locations in such manner as not to obstruct passage. Occupants shall place such receptacles within the prescribed distance stated in the contract of the back of the curb or edge of the road paving at or before 7:00 a.m. or prior to the arrival of the collection vehicles. This placement shall not be made before 5:00 p.m. on the day prior to the collection day. Garbage or refuse placed near the road or street after departure of the collection crew of the county or its contract collector, shall subject the occupant to prosecution for violation of this article.
(f)
Occupants shall remove wheeled containers from roadside location to storage location, which storage location shall be nearer to the residential unit located on the premises than to any road abutting the premises or shall be a location hidden from view of any road which abuts the premises; removal should be accomplished within a reasonable time following collection on the day the contents are emptied and collected.
(g)
Occupants shall prevent the continued, excessive and unsightly accumulation of refuse upon their property or the public thoroughfares bounding upon occupant's property.
(h)
It shall be a violation of this article to place or cause to be placed for collection any scrap tires, acid, explosive material, flammable liquids or dangerous or corrosive material of any kind.
(i)
Solid waste generated from the conduct of customary home occupations as defined in the zoning ordinance of Upson County carried on from residential dwelling units will be collected as household solid waste.
(j)
All garbage will be collected by the county or its contract collector if placed in plastic receptacles of not more than 95-gallon capacity and receptacles otherwise approved by the county. No open containers or plastic bags shall be permitted except as provided for in this article.
(k)
During any week in which there is a legal holiday or extremely harsh weather conditions, such as snow or ice, the county or its contract collector shall be required to collect residential solid waste once during such week.
(l)
The county may establish exceptions for designated residential units which are determined to be unsuitable for roadside pickup, taking into consideration the terrain features or other physical impediments, and at such premises, pickup service shall be provided to the residential units as determined by the county or in the alternative, the occupant may be instructed to place only securely tied, plastic bags at a designated location on scheduled pickup days.
(m)
The wheeled containers furnished by the county or its contract collector shall not be removed from the premises of the residential unit for which they are delivered and it shall be the duty of the occupant of the residential unit, in the event the dwelling is to be vacated by the occupant, to notify the county or its contract collector seven days prior to the vacancy.
(n)
In the event a container previously furnished by the county or its contract collector, to any residential unit is damaged, destroyed or stolen, it shall be the duty of the owner or occupant of the premises to immediately notify the county or its contract collector and to cooperate with the county commission and the county sheriff in investigating the cause of the damage, destruction or theft. Further, the owner or occupant shall, if requested to do so, appear in the appropriate court as a witness should a prosecution result from the investigation. A replacement container shall be furnished to the residential unit and such unit may be charged a replacement fee or new deposit as determined by the county or its contract collector.
(o)
Additional containers may be obtained by each residential unit upon payment of an additional monthly fee to the county or its contract collector.
( Ord. No. 254 , § 7, 10-11-2016)
Sec. 74-33. - Use of disposal facilities required; notice of service termination; resumption.
(a)
Owner and occupant of each residential unit, including residential units located in manufactured home communities, shall dispose of solid waste only by the means of a collection and disposal service provided by the county or its designated contractor.
(b)
Owners of all manufactured home communities shall provide a dumpster or dumpsters for the use of the residents of the community or may require each residence to have a separate wheeled container. The dumpsters so provided shall be of sufficient size to accommodate the needs of the community.
(c)
Whenever a residential unit becomes vacant, destroyed by fire or other casualty, or is demolished or for some other similar reason no longer generates solid waste, it is incumbent severally upon the owner and former occupant of the said residential unit to notify the county in writing of same. The county may cause such investigation of the report as it deems appropriate and if the county finds the same to be consistent with the provisions hereof, the residential unit in question shall be removed from the solid waste collection list and the fee charge shall thereupon cease. Until such notice have been received by the county, however, the fee shall continue to be charged and shall continue to be collectable, notwithstanding the fact that service is not in fact rendered to the residential unit. Similarly, if service has been discontinued pursuant to a notice as provided in this section, but is thereafter resumed, or if land which was previously vacant has been improved with a residential unit and begins to receive service, it shall be incumbent on the owner and occupant, severally, to notify the county of such commencement of or resumption of service. The fee prescribed in this article shall be payable for such property from and after the date of resumption of service whether or not notice has been received.
(d)
The county or its designated contract collector may charge a fee and/or require a deposit for the resumption of service to the owner and/or occupant of a residential unit where service has been previously discontinued. The amount of such fee and/or deposit shall be that as set from time to time by the board of commissioners of Upson County.
( Ord. No. 254 , § 8, 10-11-2016)
Sec. 74-34. - Elderly and disabled.
(a)
Any person who is a full-time resident of a residential dwelling unit as described above and who is disabled to the extent that he or she is incapable of moving his/her refuse shall obtain a physician's certificate as to such disability. Disabled persons shall not be required to place the refuse at the roadside. Disabled persons shall, however, place their solid waste in plastic bags with the top secured and placed in wheeled containers furnished by the county or its contract collector near their back door on regularly scheduled collection days. This subsection shall not apply unless all of the adult persons in a residential unit are disabled and obtain such physician's certificates. Certificates must be mailed to the contract collector with a copy to the Upson County Board of Commissioners. This subsection also applies to temporary disability not to exceed 90 days. The county or its contract collectors may make reasonable rules for non-roadside collection for elderly and disabled persons which are not inconsistent with this article.
(b)
Whenever the owner or occupant of a residential unit from which solid waste is collected by the county or its contract collector, authorizes or permits the use of private driveways or other portions of private property for such collection, such authorization or permission, whether express or implied, shall be deemed to constitute a waiver on the part of the owner or occupant of the residential unit of any claim for any damages against the county, its officers, agents, employees, and contractors which result from the use of such private property in the collection process.
(c)
The county and any person or entity acting as its contractor pursuant to contract shall be deemed to have been invited and authorized to enter upon private property for the purpose of collection of solid waste in those cases where other than roadside collection has been requested by the owner or occupant of a residential unit and approved by the county.
( Ord. No. 254 , § 9, 10-11-2016)
Sec. 74-35. - Collection rates.
(a)
The fees for the collection and disposal of residential solid waste within the county shall be established from time to time by action of the board of commissioners. This fee may be billed quarterly by the county or its contract collector to each residential unit.
(b)
The owner or principal occupant of a residence, who is totally disabled based on a physician's certificate or is at least 65 years of age with a household income of less than poverty may qualify for a discount.
( Ord. No. 254 , § 10, 10-11-2016)
Sec. 74-36. - Payment.
(a)
The board of commissioners, or its contract collector, shall prepare and mail to each residential unit in the county a statement showing the amount of the monthly installment due for residential solid waste collection services. This statement shall be prepared monthly or quarterly in advance and each monthly or quarterly payment shall be paid in advance by the owner or occupant of each residential unit. A late payment penalty and an assessment of interest shall be imposed upon each account for which payment is not made within the time limits prescribed herein.
(b)
The fees for collection of residential solid waste levied pursuant to the terms of this article, and all late charges and interest accruing thereon are hereby deemed and constituted a tax and are hereby levied severally against the owner and occupant of each residential unit, including all residential units located in manufactured home communities covered by this article. The fees, late charges and interest prescribed in this section shall be treated in all respects as provided by law with respect to ad valorem and state taxes, and uncollected fees, late charges and interest shall constitute a continuing lien against the real property upon which each residential unit is located; on the personal property composing a residential unit, and upon the personal property of the occupant of each residential unit, until paid. Writs of Fieri Fiacas may be issued by the county for fees which are past due and collection may be effected as provided by law for ad valorem and other state taxes, as provided by O.C.G.A. § 12-8-39.3 or other applicable law. The monthly fees for solid waste collection hereby levied shall be due and payable by the 15th day of the first month of the billed quarter, if not paid there is hereby levied a late charge of $10.00 per quarter. Additionally, interest will be charged against all uncollected fees over 30 days past due at the same rate of interest borne by uncollected ad valorem taxes.
( Ord. No. 254 , § 11, 10-11-2016)
Sec. 74-37. - General conditions of commercial collection.
(a)
The owner or occupant of any premises, office, business establishment, institution or industry or similar commercial establishment shall be responsible for the collection and transportation of all solid waste accumulated at such premises, establishment or facility to a solid waste handling facility operating in compliance with state regulation, and must arrange for service with an approved contract collector.
(1)
Holders of a valid solid waste handling permit from the Georgia Department of Natural Resources shall be exempt from such contracting.
(2)
No business license or renewal thereof shall be issued until the owner or occupant of such premises provides the business license office of the Upson County Board of Commissioners with the name of the contract collector which provides collection for the business, or an exception has been granted by the Upson County Board of Commissioners or their designee.
(3)
Residents that live in the county and own a business within the city or the county will not be required to have residential service if they have service at their business and the business is properly licensed.
( Ord. No. 254 , § 12, 10-11-2016)
Sec. 74-38. - Violations and enforcement.
(a)
It shall be unlawful for any person, firm, organization, business, corporation or entity to willfully and intentionally violate any of the provisions of this article.
(b)
It shall be unlawful for any person, firm, organization, business, corporation or other entity to willfully and with intent to defraud the county, or its designated contract collector, to evade or defeat or attempt to evade or defeat, any fee, charge, penalty or interest due the county or its contract collector or the payment thereof imposed by this article.
(c)
It shall be unlawful for any person to burn or attempt to burn or cause to be burned any material of any nature in any container belonging to or used by the county or its designated contract collector for residential solid waste collection purposes.
(d)
It shall be unlawful for any person to willfully and intentionally damage or destroy or to allow or permit damage to or destruction of any container provided by the county or its designated contract collector.
(e)
Each violation of any of the provisions of this article shall be punishable by a fine not to exceed $1,000.00 or 60 days imprisonment in the Upson County jail or both. Each full day a violation continues, shall constitute a separate violation. Such violations may be tried upon citations with or without a prosecuting attorney as well as upon accusations, as provided in the O.C.G.A. § 15-10-60 et seq. Citation shall be issued by the county manager or their designee. Service upon corporations, partnerships and other entities and organizations shall be effective by serving any managing agent located in Upson County, Georgia, or by serving the registered agent, or any officer or partner of the corporation, partnership, organization or entity. The provisions of this chapter may also be enforced through other remedies, such as injunctive relief as provided by the laws of this state.
(f)
Whenever a corporation, partnership, organization, or other artificial entity shall violate any of the provisions of this article, such violations shall be deemed to be that of the individual directors, officers or agents of such corporation, partnership, organization or other artificial entity who shall have authorized, ordered or done any of the acts constituting in whole or in part any such violation. In such cases, service shall also be made upon the individual director or other agent accused of authorizing, ordering or doing acts constituting in whole or in part violations of this chapter.
( Ord. No. 254 , § 13, 10-11-2016)
Secs. 74-39—74-70. - Reserved.
ARTICLE III. - GARBAGE DUMPSTER REGULATIONS

Sec. 74-71. - Definitions.
The following words, terms and phrases, when used in this article, shall have the meanings ascribed to them in this section, except where the context clearly indicates a different meaning:
Household garbage means all waste accumulations of food items, plastics, glass, and paper generated by a residential household, but specifically excluding the bodies of dead animals, batteries, tires, furniture, appliances, construction debris, tree limbs or yard debris.
(Ord. No. 70, § 1, 9-19-1993)
Cross reference— Definitions generally, § 1-2.
Sec. 74-72. - Use for household garbage.
All dumpsters maintained and provided for public use by the county shall be for household garbage only unless otherwise clearly marked by signs posted by the county at the dumpster location.
(Ord. No. 70, § 1, 9-19-1993)
Sec. 74-73. - Penalty for violation.
Violation of this article shall, upon conviction, be punishable as provided in section 1-11.
(Ord. No. 70, § 6, 9-19-1993)
Sec. 74-74. - Dumping other materials.
It shall be unlawful for any person to dump any material other than household garbage into a dumpster provided by the county for public use.
(Ord. No. 70, § 2, 9-19-1993)
Sec. 74-75. - Dumping other than in container.
No person shall dump, deposit, or place any trash, garbage, or other such materials at a dumpster site maintained by the county for use by the public at any place other than totally within the dumpster container.
(Ord. No. 70, § 3, 9-19-1993)
Sec. 74-76. - Scavenging or removal of contents.
No person shall enter, reach into, scavenge from, or remove any contents from a garbage or trash dumpster maintained by the county.
(Ord. No. 70, § 4, 9-19-1993)
Sec. 74-77. - Loitering on site.
No person shall loiter upon, park, stand, or remain on the premises of any dumpster site maintained by the county.
(Ord. No. 70, § 5, 9-19-1993)
Secs. 74-78—74-105. - Reserved.
ARTICLE IV. - YARD TRIMMINGS

Sec. 74-106. - Definitions.
The following words, terms and phrases, when used in this article, shall have the meanings ascribed to them in this section, except where the context clearly indicates a different meaning:
Commercial solid waste means all types of solid waste generated by stores, offices, restaurants, warehouses and other nonmanufacturing activities, excluding residential and industrial wastes.
Composting means the controlled biological decomposition of organic matter into a stable, odor free humus.
Leachate collection system means a system at a landfill for collection of the leachate which may percolate through the waste and into the soils surrounding the landfill.
Municipal solid waste means any solid waste derived from a household, including garbage, trash and sanitary waste in septic tanks, and includes solid waste from single-family and multifamily residences, hotels and motels, bunkhouses, campgrounds, picnic grounds, and day use recreation areas. The term includes yard trimmings and commercial solid waste but does not include solid waste from mining, agricultural or silvicultural operations or industrial processes or operations.
Municipal solid waste disposal facility means any facility or location where the final deposition of any amount of municipal solid waste occurs, whether or not mixed with or including commercial or industrial solid waste, including but not limited to municipal solid waste landfills.
Municipal solid waste landfill means a disposal facility where any amount of municipal solid waste, whether or not mixed with or including commercial waste, industrial waste, nonhazardous sludges or small quantity generator hazardous waste, is disposed of by means of placing an approved cover thereon.
Yard trimmings means leaves, brush, grass clippings, shrub and tree prunings, discarded Christmas trees, nursery and greenhouse vegetative residuals, and vegetative matter resulting from landscaping development and maintenance, other than mining, agricultural and silvicultural operations.
(Ord. No. 91, § 1, 9-6-1996)
Cross reference— Definitions generally, § 1-2.
Sec. 74-107. - Penalty for violation.
Any person violating the terms of this article shall, upon conviction, be punished as provided in section 1-11.
(Ord. No. 91, § 4, 9-6-1996)
Sec. 74-108. - Placement and disposal.
Within the unincorporated areas of the county:
(1)
It shall be unlawful to place or mix yard trimmings with municipal solid waste.
(2)
Yard trimmings shall not be disposed at any municipal solid waste disposal facility having a liner and leachate collection system or requiring vertical expansion located within the county.
(Ord. No. 91, § 2, 9-6-1996)
Sec. 74-109. - Sorting, storing, composting and collecting.
Yard trimmings shall be sorted and stockpiled or chipped, composted, used as mulch or otherwise beneficially reused or recycled to the maximum extent feasible.
(Ord. No. 91, § 3, 9-6-1996)
