Chapter 18 - AVIATION[1]
Footnotes:
--- (1) ---
State Law reference— Aviation, O.C.G.A. § 6-1-1 et seq.; authority to acquire, construct and maintain airports, O.C.G.A. § 6-3-20 et seq.; general powers of counties and municipalities as to airports, O.C.G.A. § 6-3-25; authority to enforce police regulations in airports, O.C.G.A. § 6-3-27.

ARTICLE I. - IN GENERAL

Secs. 18-1—18-25. - Reserved.
ARTICLE II. - AIRPORT HAZARD ZONING[2]

Footnotes:
--- (2) ---
Cross reference— Buildings and building regulations, ch. 22; zoning, app. A.

Sec. 18-26. - Definitions.
The following words, terms and phrases, when used in this article, shall have the meanings ascribed to them in this section, except where the context clearly indicates a different meaning:
Airport means the Thomaston-Upson County Airport.
Airport elevation means the highest point of an airport's usable landing area measured in feet from mean sea level.
Airport hazard means any structure or object of natural growth located on or in the vicinity of a public airport, or any use of land near such airport, which obstructs the airspace required for the flight of aircraft in landing or takeoff at such airport or is otherwise hazardous to such landing or takeoff of aircraft.
Approach zone, transitional zone, horizontal zone, and conical zones mean the zones that apply to the area under the approach, transitional, horizontal, and conical surfaces defined in FAR part 77.
Board of adjustments and appeals means a board consisting of five members appointed by the chief appointing authority as provided in section 22-151 et seq.
Height. For the purpose of determining the height limits in all zones set forth in this article and shown on the zoning map, the datum shall be mean sea level elevation unless otherwise specified.
Heliport primary surface means the area of the primary surface which coincides in size and shape with the designated landing and takeoff area of a heliport (runway). This surface is a horizontal plane at the elevation of the established heliport elevation.
Ldn contour means the horizontal contour indicating the boundary between areas of acceptable or unacceptable noise exposure as averaged by yearly day-night sound levels for the various land uses in section 18-36.
Nonconforming use means any preexisting structure, object of natural growth, or use of land which is inconsistent with this article or an amendment to this article.
Nonprecision instrument runway means a runway having an existing instrument approach procedure utilizing air navigation facilities with only horizontal guidance, or area-type navigation equipment, for which a straight-in nonprecision instrument approach procedure has been approved or planned, and for which no precision approach facilities are planned or indicated on a Federal Aviation Administration planning document or military service's military airport planning document.
Precision instrument runway means a runway having an existing instrument approach procedure utilizing an instrument landing system (ILS) or a precision approach radar (PAR). It also means a runway for which a precision approach system is planned and is so indicated on an airport layout plan approved by the Federal Aviation Administration, a military service's approved military airport layout plan, any other Federal Aviation Administration planning document or military service's military airport planning document.
Primary surface means a surface longitudinally centered on a runway. When the runway has a specially prepared hard surface, the primary surface extends 200 feet beyond each end of that runway, but when the runway has no specially prepared hard surface or planned hard surface, the primary surface ends at each end of that runway. The width of the primary surface of a runway will be that width prescribed in part 77 of the Federal Aviation Regulations (FAR) for the most precise approach existing or planned for either end of that runway. The elevation of any point on the primary surface is the same as the elevation of the nearest point on the runway centerline.
Runway means a defined area on an airport prepared for landing and takeoff of aircraft along its length.
STOL primary surface means an imaginary plane, 300 feet wide, centered on the runway. Its length extends 100 feet beyond each runway end. The elevation of any point on the primary surface is the same as the elevation of the nearest point on the runway centerline.
Structure means an object constructed or installed by man, including, but without limitation, buildings, towers, smokestacks, earth formation, and overhead transmission lines.
Tree means any object of natural growth.
Utility runway means a runway that is constructed for and intended to be used by propeller-driven aircraft of 12,500 pounds maximum gross weight and less.
Visual runway means a runway intended solely for the operation of aircraft using visual approach procedures with no straight-in instrument approach procedure and no instrument designation indicated on an airport layout plan approved by the Federal Aviation Administration, by a military service's approved military airport layout plan, or by any planning document submitted to the Federal Aviation Administration by competent authority.
(Ord. No. 56, § II, 9-21-1990)
Cross reference— Definitions generally, § 1-2.
Sec. 18-27. - Findings.
(a)
It is hereby found that an airport hazard endangers the lives and property of users of Thomaston-Upson County Airport and property or occupants of land in its vicinity, and also if of the obstruction type in effect reduces the size of the area available for the landing, takeoff, and maneuvering of aircraft, thus tending to destroy or impair the utility of Thomaston-Upson County Airport and the public investment therein. Accordingly, it is declared:
(1)
The creation or establishment of an airport hazard is a public nuisance and an injury to the region served by Thomaston-Upson County Airport;
(2)
It is necessary in the interest of the public health, public safety, and general welfare that the creation or establishment of airport hazards be prevented; and
(3)
The prevention of these hazards should be accomplished, to the extent legally possible, by the exercise of the police power without compensation.
(b)
It is further declared that both the prevention of the creation or establishment of airport hazards and the elimination, removal, alteration, mitigation, or marking and lighting of existing airport hazards are public purposes for which a political subdivision may raise and expend public funds and acquire land or interests in land.
(Ord. No. 56, 9-21-1990)
Sec. 18-28. - Enforcement.
(a)
It shall be the duty of the building official to administer and enforce this article.
(b)
Applications for permits and variances shall be made to the building official upon a form furnished by him. Applications required by this article to be submitted to the building official shall be promptly considered and granted or denied by him. An application for action by the board of adjustments and appeals shall be forthwith transmitted by the building official.
(Ord. No. 56, § IX, 9-21-1990)
Sec. 18-29. - Penalties.
Each violation of this article or of any regulation, order, or ruling promulgated under this article shall constitute a misdemeanor and, upon conviction, shall be punishable as provided in section 1-11.
(Ord. No. 56, § XIII, 9-21-1990)
Sec. 18-30. - Airport zones.
In order to carry out this article, there are hereby created and established certain zones which include all of the land lying within the approach zones, transitional zones, horizontal zones, and conical zones as they apply to a particular airport. Such zones are shown on the Thomaston-Upson County Airport Hazard Zoning Map consisting of one sheet, prepared by Mayes, Sudderth and Etheredge, Inc., and dated August 1, 1990. An area located in more than one of the following zones is considered to be only in the zone with the more restrictive height limitation. The various zones are hereby established and defined as follows:
(1)
Utility runway visual approach zone. The inner edge of this approach zone coincides with the width of the primary surface and is 250 feet wide. The approach zone expands outward uniformly to a width of 1,250 feet at a horizontal distance of 5,000 feet from the primary surface, its centerline being the continuation of the centerline of the runway.
(2)
Utility runway nonprecision instrument approach zone. The inner edge of this approach zone coincides with the width of the primary surface and is 500 feet wide. The approach zone expands outward uniformly to a width of 2,000 feet at a horizontal distance 5,000 feet from the primary surface, its centerline being the continuation of the centerline of the runway.
(3)
Runway larger than utility visual approach zone. The inner edge of this approach zone coincides with the width of the primary surface and is 500 feet wide. The approach zone expands outward uniformly to a width of 1,500 feet at a horizontal distance of 5,000 feet from the primary surface, its centerline being the continuation of the centerline of the runway.
(4)
Runway larger than utility with visibility minimum greater than three-fourths-mile nonprecision instrument approach zone. The inner edge of this approach zone coincides with the width of the primary surface and is 500 feet wide. The approach zone expands outward uniformly to a width of 3,500 feet at a horizontal distance of 10,000 feet from the primary surface, its centerline being the continuation of the centerline of the runway.
(5)
Runway larger than utility with visibility minimum as low as three-fourths-mile nonprecision instrument approach zone. The inner edge of this approach zone coincides with the width of the primary surface and is 1,000 feet wide. The approach zone expands outward uniformly to a width of 4,000 feet at a horizontal distance of 10,000 feet from the primary surface, its centerline being the continuation of the centerline of the runway.
(6)
Precision instrument runway approach zone. The inner edge of this approach zone coincides with the width of the primary surface and is 1,000 feet wide. The approach zone expands outward uniformly to a width of 16,000 feet at a horizontal distance of 50,000 feet from the primary surface, its centerline being the continuation of the centerline of the runway.
(7)
Heliport visual flight rules (VFR) approach zone. The inner edge of this approach zone coincides with the width of the primary surface and is 150 feet wide. The approach zone expands outward uniformly to a width of 500 feet at a horizontal distance of 4,000 feet from the primary surface, its centerline being the continuation of the centerline of the primary surface.
(8)
Heliport instrument flight rules (IFR) approach zone. The inner edge of this approach zone coincides with the width of the primary surface and is 300 feet wide. The approach zone expands outward uniformly to a width of 3,400 feet at a horizontal distance of 10,000 feet from the primary surface, its centerline being the continuation of the centerline of the primary surface.
(9)
STOL precision instrument approach zone. The inner edge of this approach zone coincides with the primary surface and is 300 feet wide. The approach zone expands outward uniformly to a width of 3,400 feet at a horizontal distance of 10,000 feet from the primary surface, its centerline being the continuation of the centerline of the runway.
(10)
Transitional zones. These zones are hereby established as the area beneath the transitional surfaces. These surfaces extend outward and upward at 90-degree angles to the runway centerline and the runway centerline extended at a slope of seven feet horizontally for each foot vertically from the sides of the primary and approach surfaces to where they intersect the horizontal and conical surfaces. Transitional zones for those portions of the precision approach zones which project through and beyond the limits of the conical surface extend a distance of 5,000 feet measured horizontally from the edge of the approach zones and at 90-degree angles to the extended runway centerline.
(11)
Heliport VFR transitional zones. These zones extend outward from the sides of the primary surface and the approach zones a horizontal distance of 250 feet from the primary surface centerline and the extended primary surface centerline.
(12)
Heliport IFR transitional zones. These zones extend outward from the sides of the primary surface and a portion of the sides of the approach zones a horizontal distance of 350 feet from the primary surface centerline and the extended primary surface centerline.
(13)
STOL precision instrument transitional zones. These zones extend outward from the sides of the primary surfaces a horizontal distance of 400 feet and from a portion of the sides of the approach zones a variable horizontal distance of 400 feet at the primary surface end to zero feet at a horizontal distance of 1,500 feet measured outward along the extended primary surface centerline.
(14)
Horizontal zone. The horizontal zone is hereby established by swinging arcs of 10,000-foot radii from the center of each end of the primary surface of each runway and connecting the adjacent arcs by drawing lines tangent to those arcs. The horizontal zone does not include the approach and transitional zones.
(15)
Conical zone. The conical zone is hereby established as the area that commences at the periphery of the horizontal zone and extends outward therefrom a horizontal distance of 4,000 feet. The conical zone does not include the precision instrument approach zones and the transitional zones.
(Ord. No. 56, § III, 9-21-1990)
Editor's note— The airport hazard zoning map dated August 1, 1990, is on file in the office of the chairman of the board of commissioners.
Sec. 18-31. - Airport zone height limitations.
(a)
Except as otherwise provided in this article, no structure or tree shall be erected, altered, allowed to grow, or maintained in any zone created by this article to a height in excess of the applicable height limit established for such zone. Such applicable height limitations are hereby established for each of the zones in question as follows:
(1)
Utility runway visual approach zone. The utility runway visual approach zone slopes upward 20 feet horizontally for each foot vertically, beginning at the end of and at the same elevation as the primary surface and extending to a horizontal distance of 5,000 feet along the extended runway centerline.
(2)
Utility runway nonprecision instrument approach zone. The utility runway nonprecision instrument approach zone slopes upward 20 feet horizontally for each foot vertically beginning at the end of and at the same elevation as the primary surface and extending to a horizontal distance of 5,000 feet along the extended runway centerline.
(3)
Runway larger than utility visual approach zone. The runway larger than a utility visual approach zone slopes upward 20 feet horizontally for each foot vertically beginning at the end of and at the same elevation as the primary surface and extending to a horizontal distance of 5,000 feet along the extended runway centerline.
(4)
Runway larger than utility with visibility minimum greater than three-fourths-mile nonprecision instrument approach zone. The runway larger than utility with a visibility minimum greater than three-fourths-mile nonprecision instrument approach zone slopes upward 34 feet horizontally for each foot vertically beginning at the end of and at the same elevation as the primary surface and extending to a horizontal distance of 10,000 feet along the extended runway centerline.
(5)
Runway larger than utility with visibility minimum as low as three-fourths-mile nonprecision instrument approach zone. The runway larger than utility with a visibility minimum as low as three-fourths-mile nonprecision instrument approach zone slopes upward 34 feet horizontally for each foot vertically beginning at the end of and at the same elevation as the primary surface and extending to a horizontal distance of 10,000 feet along the extended runway centerline.
(6)
Precision instrument runway approach zone. The precision instrument runway approach zone slopes upward 50 feet horizontally for each foot vertically beginning at the end of and at the same elevation as the primary surface and extending to a horizontal distance of 10,000 feet along the extended runway centerline; thence slopes upward 40 feet horizontally for each foot vertically to an additional horizontal distance of 40,000 feet along the extended runway centerline.
(7)
Heliport VFR approach zones. The heliport VFR approach zone slopes upward eight feet horizontally for each foot vertically beginning at the end of and at the same elevation as the primary surface and extending to a distance of 4,000 feet along the extended primary surface centerline.
(8)
Heliport IFR approach zone. The heliport IFR approach zone slopes upward 15 feet horizontally for each foot vertically beginning at the end of and at the same elevation as the primary surface and extending to a distance of 10,000 feet along the extended primary surface centerline.
(9)
STOL approach zone. The STOL approach zone slopes upward 15 feet horizontally for each foot vertically beginning at the end of and at the same elevation as the primary surface and extending to a distance of 10,000 feet along the extended runway centerline.
(10)
Transitional zones. Transitional zones slope upward and outward seven feet horizontally for each foot vertically beginning at the sides of and at the same elevation as the primary surface and the approach zones and extending to a height of 150 feet above the airport elevation, which is 945.5 feet above mean sea level. In addition, there are established height limits sloping upward and outward seven feet horizontally for each foot vertically beginning at the sides of and at the same elevation as the approach zones and extending to where they intersect the conical surface. Where the precision instrument runway approach zone projects beyond the conical zone, height limits sloping upward and outward seven feet horizontally for each foot vertically shall be maintained beginning at the sides of and at the same elevation as precision instrument runway approach surface and extending to a horizontal distance of 5,000 feet measured at 90-degree angles to the extended runway centerline.
(11)
Heliport VFR transitional zones. The heliport VFR transitional zone slopes upward and outward two feet horizontally for each foot vertically beginning at the sides of and at the same elevation as the primary surface and the approach surfaces and extending a distance of 250 feet measured horizontally from and at 90-degree angles to the primary surface centerline and extended centerline.
(12)
Heliport IFR transitional zones. The heliport IFR transitional zone slopes upward and outward four feet horizontally for each foot vertically beginning at the sides of and at the same elevation as the primary surface and a portion of the sides of the approach surface and extending a distance of 350 feet measured horizontally from and at 90-degree angles to the primary surface centerline and extended centerline.
(13)
STOL transitional zones. STOL transitional zones slope upward and outward four feet horizontally for each foot vertically beginning at the sides of and at the same elevation as the primary surface and a portion of the sides of the approach surface and extend to an elevation of 100 feet above the primary surface.
(14)
Horizontal zone. The horizontal zone is 150 feet above the airport elevation or a height of 945.5 feet above mean sea level.
(15)
Conical zone. The conical zone slopes upward and outward 20 feet horizontally for each foot vertically beginning at the periphery of the horizontal zone and at 150 feet above the airport elevation and extending to a height of 350 feet above the airport elevation.
(b)
Nothing in this article shall be construed as prohibiting the growth, construction, or maintenance of any tree or structure to a height up to 75 feet above the surface of the land.
(c)
Where an area is covered by more than one height limitation, the more restrictive limitation shall prevail.
(Ord. No. 56, § IV, 9-21-1990)
Sec. 18-32. - Land use restrictions.
No use shall be proposed or developed within the 65 Ldn contour of the Thomaston-Upson County Airport Hazard Zoning Map unless compliance is compatible and consistent with noise exposures for the various land uses in section 18-36.
(Ord. No. 56, § V, 9-21-1990)
Sec. 18-33. - Electronic and visual use restrictions.
Notwithstanding any other section of this article, no use may be made of land or water within any zone established by this article in such a manner as to:
(1)
Create electrical interference with navigational signals or radio communication between the airport and aircraft;
(2)
Make it difficult for pilots to distinguish between airport lights and others;
(3)
Result in glare in the eyes of pilots using the airport;
(4)
Impair visibility in the vicinity of the airport; or
(5)
Otherwise in any way create a hazard or endanger the landing, takeoff, or maneuvering of aircraft intending to use the airport.
(Ord. No. 56, § VI, 9-21-1990)
Sec. 18-34. - Nonconforming uses.
(a)
Regulations not retroactive. The regulations prescribed by this article shall not be construed to require the removal, lowering, or other changes or alteration of any structure or tree not conforming to the regulations as of the effective date of the ordinance from which this section derives or otherwise interfere with the continuance of a nonconforming use. Nothing contained in this article shall require any change in the construction, alteration, or intended use of any structure, the construction or alteration of which was begun prior to the effective date of the ordinance from which this section derives and is diligently prosecuted.
(b)
Marking and lighting. Notwithstanding subsection (a) of this section, the owner of any existing nonconforming structure or tree is hereby required to permit the installation, operation, and maintenance thereon of such markers and lights as shall be deemed necessary by the building official to indicate to the operators of aircraft in the vicinity of the airport the presence of such airport hazards. Such markers and lights shall be installed, operated, and maintained at the expense of the county commission.
(Ord. No. 56, § VII, 9-21-1990)
Sec. 18-35. - Permits.
(a)
Future uses. No material change shall be made in the use of land and no structure or tree shall be erected, altered, planted, or otherwise established in any zone created by this article unless a permit therefor shall have been applied for and granted. However, a permit for a tree or structure of less than 75 feet of vertical height above the ground shall not be required in the horizontal and conical zones or in any approach and transitional zones beyond a horizontal distance of 4,200 feet from each end of the runway, except when such tree or structure, because of terrain, land contour, or topographic features, would extend above the height limit prescribed for the respective zone. Each application for a permit shall indicate the purpose for which the permit is desired with sufficient particulars to determine whether the resulting use, structure, or tree would conform to the regulations prescribed in this article. If such determination is in the affirmative, the permit shall be granted.
(b)
Existing uses. No permit shall be granted that would allow the establishment or creation of an airport hazard or permit a nonconforming use, structure, or tree to become a greater hazard to air navigation than it was on the effective date of the ordinance from which this article derives or any amendments to this article or than it is when the application for a permit is made. Except as indicated, all applications for such a permit shall be granted.
(c)
Nonconforming uses abandoned or destroyed. Whenever the building official determines that a nonconforming tree or structure has been abandoned or more than 80 percent torn down, physically deteriorated, or decayed, no permit shall be granted that would allow such structure or tree to exceed the applicable height limit or otherwise deviate from the zoning regulations.
(d)
Variances. Any person desiring to erect or increase the height of any structure or permit the growth of any tree or use his property not in accordance with this article may apply to the board of adjustments and appeals for a variance from this article. Such variance shall be allowed where it is duly found that a literal application or enforcement of this article would result in practical difficulty or unnecessary hardship and relief granted would not be contrary to the public interest but will do substantial justice and be in accordance with the spirit of this article.
(e)
Hazard marking and lighting. Any permit or variance granted may, if such action is deemed advisable to effectuate the purpose of this article and be reasonable in the circumstances, be so conditioned as to require the owner of the structure or tree in question to permit the county commission, at its own expense, to install, operate, and maintain thereon such markers and lights as may be necessary to indicate to pilots the presence of an airport hazard.
(Ord. No. 56, § VIII, 9-21-1990)
Sec. 18-36. - Land use compatibility with yearly day-night average sound levels.
The following table depicts land use compatibility [3] with yearly day-night average sound levels. Numbers in parentheses refer to notes:
EXPAND
Yearly Day-Night Average Sound Level (L dn ) in Decibels
Land Use Below
65 65—70 70—75 75—80 80—85 Over
85
Residential
Residential, other than mobile homes and transient lodgings Y N(1) N(1) N N N
Mobile home parks Y N N N N N
Transient lodgings Y N(1) N(1) N(1) N N
Public Use
Schools, hospitals and nursing homes Y 25 30 N N N
Churches, auditoriums, and concert halls Y 25 30 N N N
Governmental services Y Y 25 30 N N
Transportation Y Y Y(2) Y(3) Y(4) Y(4)
Parking Y Y Y(2) Y(3) Y(4) N
Commercial Use
Offices, business and professional Y Y 25 30 N N
Wholesale and retail—building materials, hardware and farm equipment Y Y Y(2) Y(3) Y(4) N
Retail trade—general Y Y 25 30 N N
Utilities Y Y Y(2) Y(3) Y(4) N
Communication Y Y 25 30 N N
Manufacturing and Production
Manufacturing, general Y Y Y(2) Y(3) Y(4) N
Photographic and optical Y Y 25 30 N N
Agriculture (except livestock) and forestry Y Y(6) Y(7) Y(8) Y(8) Y(8)
Livestock farming and breeding Y Y(6) Y(7) N N N
Mining and fishing, resource production and extraction Y Y Y Y Y Y
Recreational
Outdoor sports arenas and spectator sports Y Y(5) Y(5) N N N
Outdoor music shells, amphitheaters Y N N N N N
Nature exhibits and zoos Y Y N N N N
Amusements, parks, resorts and camps Y Y Y N N N
Golf courses, riding stables and water recreation Y Y 25 30 N N
  KEY TO TABLE
EXPAND
SLUCM Standard Land Use Coding Manual.
Y (Yes) Land use and related structures compatible without restrictions.
N (No) Land use and related structures are not compatible and should be prohibited.
NLR Noise level reduction (outdoor to indoor) to be achieved through incorporation of noise attenuation into the design and construction of the structure.
25, 30, or 35 Land used and related structures generally compatible; measures to achieve NLR or 25, 30, or 35 must be incorporated into design and construction of structure.
  NOTES FOR TABLE
EXPAND
(1) Where the community determines that residential uses must be allowed, measures to achieve outdoor to indoor noise level reduction (NLR) of at least 25 dB and 30 dB should be incorporated into building codes and be considered in individual approvals. Normal construction can be expected to provide a NLR of 20 dB; thus, the reduction requirements are often stated as 5, 10 or 15 dB over standard construction and normally assume mechanical ventilation and closed windows year-round. However, the use of NLR criteria will not eliminate outdoor noise problems.
(2) Measures to achieve NLR of 25 must be incorporated into the design and construction of portions of these buildings where the public is received, office areas, noise sensitive areas or where the normal noise level is low.
(3) Measures to achieve NLR of 30 must be incorporated into the design and construction of portions of these buildings where the public is received, office areas, noise sensitive areas or where the normal noise level is low.
(4) Measures to achieve NLR of 35 must be incorporated into the design and construction of portions of these buildings where the public is received, office areas, noise sensitive areas or where the normal noise level is low.
(5) Land use compatible provided special sound reinforcement systems are installed.
(6) Residential buildings require an NLR of 25.
(7) Residential buildings require an NLR of 30.
(8) Residential buildings not permitted.
  (Ord. No. 56, app. A, 9-21-1990)
Footnotes:
--- (3) ---
Note— The designations contained in this table do not constitute a federal determination that any use of land covered by the program is acceptable or unacceptable under federal, state, or local law. The responsibility for determining the acceptable and permissible land uses remains with the local authorities. Federal Aviation Administration determinations under part 150 are not intended to substitute federally determined land uses for those determined to be appropriate by local authorities in response to locally determined needs and values in achieving noise compatible land uses.
