Chapter 42 - PARKS AND RECREATION[1]
Footnotes:
--- (1) ---
Cross reference— Animals prohibited in city parks and buildings, § 10-7; environment, ch. 26; natural resources, ch. 34; streets, sidewalks and other public places, ch. 62.
State Law reference— Authority to construct and operate parks, swimming pools, golf courses, recreation grounds and buildings used for sports, O.C.G.A. § 36-34-3; authority to provide parks, recreation areas, programs and facilities, Ga. Const. art. IX, § II, ¶ III(a)(5).

ARTICLE I. - IN GENERAL

Secs. 42-1—42-25. - Reserved.
ARTICLE II. - PUBLIC CONDUCT IN PARKS

Sec. 42-26. - Curfew.
There shall be a curfew on all city parks from 11:00 p.m. until daybreak. Any unauthorized person found therein during such hours shall be fined $1,000.00.
(Code 1977, § 14-7; Ord. No. 1402, 4-30-2019)
Sec. 42-27. - Young children accompanied by older person.
Children under six years of age must be accompanied by a person 13 years of age or older while in all city parks.
(Code 1977, § 14-8)
Sec. 42-28. - Alcoholic beverages.
(a)
It shall be unlawful for any person to consume or possess any alcoholic beverages, liquors, wines or other intoxicating spirits in any park owned or maintained by or on behalf of the city.
(b)
Any person seeking admittance to the parks shall submit to a search of his person and vehicle by any officer of the police department in order to prevent the transportation of any alcoholic beverages, liquors, wines, or other intoxicating spirits into the parks. Any person refusing to allow his person or vehicle to be searched shall be refused admittance to the parks.
(c)
Any person convicted of violating this section shall be fined up to $100.00 and/or confined in jail for seven days and not allowed to use the park facilities for a period not to exceed six months.
(Code 1977, § 14-8.1)
Cross reference— Alcoholic beverages, ch. 6.
Secs. 42-29—42-40. - Reserved.
ARTICLE III. - RECREATION BOARD[2]

Footnotes:
--- (2) ---
Editor's note— Ord. No. 1400, § I, adopted May 8, 2019, repealed the former Art. III, §§ 42-41—42-51, and enacted a new Art. III as set out herein. The former Art. III pertained to similar subject matter and derived from Ord. of April 1, 1994.

Sec. 42-41. - Creation and purpose.
The council hereby establishes a parks and recreation board ("board"). The board shall act in an advisory capacity to the director of the parks and recreation department ("department"), facilitate communications between the department and persons interacting with the department, assist in resolving disputes concerning the department, offer recommendations to the director for the maintenance, operation, programs and activities of the department, offer recommendations to the council through the director for changes to the board's bylaws, and offer recommendations to the director for changes to the rules, regulations and policies (excluding city personnel) of the department, and offer recommendations to the council regarding maintenance and operation of public parks, playgrounds, playfields and recreation facilities, activities and programs.
(Ord. No. 1400, § I, 5-8-2019)
Sec. 42-42. - Membership.
The board shall consist of seven members, and each member shall reside in Toombs County. To qualify for appointment on the board, a person shall demonstrate to the satisfaction of the council that he or she is competent to serve and has a vested interest in the successful operation of the department. Each member shall serve without compensation.
(Ord. No. 1400, § I, 5-8-2019)
Sec. 42-43. - Appointment and terms of members.
Each member of the board shall be appointed by the council. The initial board shall be composed of: i) two members, each of whom will serve a one-year term; ii) two members, each of whom will serve a two-year term; and iii) three members, each of whom will serve a three-year term. Should a vacancy occur during the term of any member of the initial board, thereby creating an unexpired term, the council shall appoint a member only for the remaining portion of the unexpired term. At the expiration of the term of each member of the initial board, the council shall thereafter appoint all members to serve three-year terms. Members are eligible to serve no more than two consecutive terms but may be eligible for reappointment to the board again after a one year absence from the board. After appointment of the members of the initial board, on annual basis the board shall recommend persons for future membership on the board, along with the director's opinion regarding the suitability of such persons, for the council's consideration in making appointments to the board. Although the council may review such recommendations, the council has exclusive authority to accept or reject such recommendations or to appoint persons of its own choosing to the board. Members of the board shall serve at the pleasure of the council, and the council may dismiss any member from the board at any time for any reason. The mayor shall appoint one member of the council to act as a liaison between the council and the director and the board.
(Ord. No. 1400, § I, 5-8-2019)
Sec. 42-44. - Organization and duties of officers.
When the board holds its first regularly scheduled meeting of the year, and consistent with section 3.11 of the city charter, the board shall elect from its membership a chairman, vice chairman and secretary. The chairman shall preside over all meetings of the board. The vice chairman shall exercise all duties of the chairman in the event of the absence or disability of the chairman. The secretary shall provide notice of all meetings to the public, the director, the board members, the city manager and the member of the council who is appointed as liaison to the board, and the secretary shall record in writing in a journal the minutes of all meetings, which shall include the votes of all members on matters under consideration by the board and any and all other matters discussed or considered by the board, and the attendance of the members at all meetings.
(Ord. No. 1400, § I, 5-8-2019)
Sec. 42-45. - Adoption of bylaws, rules, regulations and policies.
The board shall recommend bylaws, and as needed, amendments thereto, to the director for proper governance and conduct of the affairs of the board; provided that, such bylaws, and any amendments thereto, shall not become effective until approved by the city manager, and thereafter, until adopted by a two-thirds majority vote of the members of the board at any regular or special meeting of the board. In addition, the director shall recommend rules, regulations and policies, and as needed, amendments thereto, to the city manager regarding the maintenance, conduct, operation, facilities, programs and activities of the department, and in making such recommendations the director should consult with the board; provided that, such rules, regulations and policies, and any amendments thereto, shall not become effective until approved by the city manager. Regardless of anything in this section to the contrary, the director and the board shall have no authority to regarding city personnel.
(Ord. No. 1400, § I, 5-8-2019)
Sec. 42-46. - Conflicts of interest.
Any member who has a conflict of interest regarding any issue to be considered by the board shall announce the existence of such conflict prior to the board's consideration of such issue and shall then refrain from voting on such issue.
(Ord. No. 1400, § I, 5-8-2019)
Sec. 42-47. - Meetings; voting.
The board shall hold regular meetings on a quarterly basis, at the main office of the department, at 6:00 p.m., on the last Monday in January, April, July and October of each year. The board may also hold special meetings, and all special meetings shall be called by the chairman or by a majority vote of the members of the board. Notice of the date, time, location and agenda of any and all meetings of the board shall be made to the public, and at a minimum, such notice shall be conspicuously posted on any website maintained or utilized by the city (at this time, the city maintains or utilizes https://lyonsga.org/). Only members of the board are authorized to vote on any matter under consideration by the board, and four members of the board shall constitute a quorum and be authorized to vote. The director shall attend all meetings of the board, unless excused by the chairman, but the director shall not vote on any matter. All votes regarding any matter under consideration by the board shall be made by audible voice vote, either in favor of (i.e., "aye"), or against (i.e., "nay"), and voting by secret ballot is prohibited. Anyone, other than members of the council, the city manager, the director or members of the board, who desires to address the board at any meeting may be permitted to do so by the chairman for no more than five minutes per agenda item. All meetings and records of the board are governed the laws of the State of Georgia concerning open meeting and open records.
(Ord. No. 1400, § I, 5-8-2019)
Sec. 42-48. - Soliciting and utilizing donations and bequests of personal and real property.
On behalf of the council, the board may solicit donations and bequests of money and other personal property and real property, all of which shall be used by the city for the benefit of the department. On behalf of the council, the board may also solicit personal and real property which may be used temporarily by the city for the for the benefit of the department.
(Ord. No. 1400, § I, 5-8-2019)
Sec. 42-49. - Reports.
The board shall make an annual report to the council through the director, and the board shall make any other report upon the request of the council.
(Ord. No. 1400, § I, 5-8-2019)
Secs. 42-50—42-75. - Reserved.
