ARTICLE I. - GENERAL PROVISIONS

Sec. 101. - Title.
This ordinance shall be known and may be cited as "The Development Code of Pierce County, Georgia."
(Ord. of 2016, § 101)
Sec. 102. - Enactment.
Article IX of The Constitution of the State of Georgia, 1976, grants authority to the governing body of each county and municipality to regulate subdivisions and land development: In accordance with the Pierce County/Blackshear/Patterson/Offerman Comprehensive Plan 2010 and in Pursuance of Authority granted by the Georgia Act Number 358, General County and Enabling Act of 1957, as amended, by HB.51 amending title 36 of the Official Code of Georgia Annotated to include Chapter 66, "The Zoning Procedures Law" as enacted by the Georgia General Assembly, the board of commissioners of Pierce County, the city council of Blackshear, and the city council of Patterson, Georgia, and the City of Offerman, ordain and enact into law, The Development Code of Pierce County.
(Ord. of 2016, § 102)
Sec. 103. - Purpose.
This Development Code is to provide for the best and maximum use of property promoting the health, safety, morals, convenience, order, prosperity, and general welfare of the people of Pierce County. This Code establishes the administrative agencies and the method of administration, zoning districts with accompanying regulations, minimum design standards for the subdividing of land into streets, alleys and lots, defining certain terms used herein, providing the method of variance and amendment, providing penalties for violation, repealing conflicting ordinances, and for other regulatory purposes.
(Ord. of 2016, § 103)
Sec. 104. - Objectives.
These regulations are designed to:
1.
Conserve and protect the natural, economic, and scenic resources of Pierce County;
2.
Prevent and reduce the traffic congestion and traffic hazards resulting from poorly designed streets and major traffic arteries;
3.
Secure safety from fire, panic, structural failure, and other dangers;
4.
Promote health and general welfare;
5.
Provide adequate light and air;
6.
Prevent overcrowding of the land, avoiding undue concentration of population;
7.
Aid the adequate provision of transportation, parks, schools, sewage, water, and other public requirements;
8.
Sustain the character of the county and its suitability for particular uses;
9.
Promote desirable living conditions and stability of neighborhoods;
10.
Protect property from blight and depreciation;
11.
Secure economy in governmental expenditures;
12.
Conserve the value of buildings;
13.
Encourage the most appropriate use of land and buildings within the county; and
14.
Promote the health, safety, prosperity, and welfare of the citizens of Pierce County.
(Ord. of 2016, § 104)
Sec. 105. - Jurisdiction and scope.
The Development Code shall apply to all areas within the boundaries of Pierce County, including incorporated municipalities, subject to the approval of said municipalities, as provided herein. The scope of this document encompasses and:
1.
Defines certain terms used herein;
2.
Utilizes the creation of districts to regulate the uses, location, condition, bulk, number of stories, and size of buildings, structures and lands for trade, industry, residence, recreation, agriculture, forestry, conservation, water supply, sanitation, public safety, public activities, preservation of scenic areas, protection against floods, and other purposes;
3.
Defines the percentage of lot which may be occupied;
4.
Defines the sizes of yards and other open spaces;
5.
Regulates the density and distribution of population;
6.
Establishes minimum design standards for the subdividing of land into streets, alleys, and lots;
7.
Incorporates eight mandated construction codes for standardized building quality;
8.
Provides for the method of administration of each Development Code element, appeal and amendment and duties;
9.
Provides penalties for violations; and
10.
Enumerates other administrative and regulatory requirements.
(Ord. of 2016, § 105)
Sec. 106. - Regulation of land division.
The legal division of land by deed or transfer of title, except stated exemptions, is regulated by this Code when the following conditions are present:
1.
The division of land into two or more parcels, lots or tracts; and
2.
The dedication, vacation, reservation or improvement of any public or private access easement or right-of-way through any tract of land regardless of the area involved.
(Ord. of 2016, § 106)
Sec. 107. - Minimum requirements.
In their interpretation and application, the provisions of this Code shall be held to be minimum requirements, adopted for the promotion of public health, safety, morals, and general welfare. Wherever the requirements of this Code are at variance with the requirements of another lawfully adopted rules, regulations, codes, deed restrictions, ordinances, or covenants, the most restrictive or that imposing the higher standards, shall govern.
(Ord. of 2016, § 107)
Sec. 108. - Validity.
Should any section or provision of this Code be declared by the courts to be unconstitutional or invalid, such declaration shall not affect the Code as a whole, or any part thereof other than the part so declared to be unconstitutional or invalid.
(Ord. of 2016, § 108)
Sec. 109. - Repeal of conflicting ordinances.
All Ordinances and parts of Ordinances of Pierce County, the City of Blackshear, the City of Patterson and the City of Offerman (Pierce County) in conflict herewith are hereby repealed.
(Ord. of 2016, § 109)
Sec. 110. - Effective date.
This Code shall take effect and be enforced from and after its adoption on February 1, 2005, enacted and ordained by the county board of commissioners, the City of Blackshear, the City of Patterson, and the City of Offerman (either by direct action from the city council or on behalf of by the county board of commissioners).
(Ord. of 2016, § 110)
