ARTICLE III. - PROBATE COURT
DIVISION 1. - COMPENSATION OF JUDGE[3]

Footnotes:
--- (3) ---
Editor's note— Printed herein is 1971 Ga. Laws (Act No. 200), page 2492. Amendments are indicated by parenthetical history notes following amended provisions. The absence of a history note indicates that the provision remains unchanged from the original. Obvious misspellings have been corrected without notation. For stylistic purposes, headings and catchlines have been made uniform, and expression of numbers in text as appears in the Code of Ordinances has been used. A consistent scheme of capitalization has also been used. Additions for clarity are indicated by brackets. Catchlines have been editorially supplied. Pursuant to Ga. Const. (1976) art. VI, § VI, ¶ IV, terms such as ordinary or court of ordinary are changed to judge of the probate court and probate court, respectively.

Sec. 1. - Prior fee system abolished.
The present mode of compensating the judge of probate court of Pierce County, known as the fee system, is hereby abolished, and in lieu thereof, an annual salary for such officer is prescribed as hereinafter provided.
Sec. 2. - Annual salary.
The judge of probate court shall receive an annual salary of $6,000.00, payable in equal monthly installments from county funds.
Sec. 3. - Duties
After the effective date of this Act, said officer shall diligently and faithfully undertake to collect all fees, fines, forfeitures, commissions, costs, allowances, penalties, funds, monies and all other emoluments and perquisites formerly allowed him as compensation for services in any capacity, and shall receive and hold the same in trust for said county as public monies and shall pay the same into the county treasury on or before the 15th day of each month next following the month in which they were collected or received. At the time of each such monthly payment into the county treasury, the probate court shall furnish the governing authority of the county a detailed, itemized statement, under oath, of all such funds received during the preceding month by such officer and paid into the county treasury. The statement shall show the respective amounts of money collected and the source thereof.
Sec. 4. - Appointment of clerks and personnel.
The judge of probate court shall have the authority to appoint such deputies, clerks, assistants and other personnel as he shall deem necessary to efficiently and effectively discharge the official duties of his office. He shall, from time to time, recommend to the governing authority of said county the number of such personnel needed by his office, together with the suggested compensation to be paid each employee. However, it shall be within the sole discretion of the governing authority of said county to fix the compensation to be received by each employee in said office. It shall be within the sole power and authority of the judge of probate court, during his term of office, to designate and name the person or persons who shall be employed as such deputies, clerks, assistants or other employees, and to prescribe their duties and assignments, and to remove or replace any of such employees at will and within his sole discretion.
Sec. 5. - County funding.
The necessary operating expenses of the judge's office, expressly including the compensation of all personnel and employees, shall be paid from any funds of the county available for such purpose. All supplies, materials, furnishings, furniture, utilities, uniforms, vehicles and equipment, and the repair, replacement and maintenance thereof, as may be reasonably required in discharging the official duties of said office, shall be furnished by the county and shall be paid from any funds of the county available for such purpose. The determination of such requirements shall be at the sole discretion of the governing authority of Pierce County.
Sec. 6. - Referendum.
It shall be the duty of the judge of probate court of Pierce County to issue the call for an election for the purpose of submitting this Act to the voters of said County for approval or rejection. The judge of probate court shall set the date of such election for Tuesday, November 7, 1972. The judge of probate court shall cause the date and purpose of the election to be published once a week for two weeks immediately preceding the date thereof, in the official organ of Pierce County. The ballot shall have written or printed thereon the words:
"YES () NO ()
Shall the Act placing the judge of probate court of Pierce County on a salary of $6,000.00 per year in lieu of the fee system of compensation and providing for the appointment of deputies, clerks, assistants and other personnel with the approval of the Board of Commissioners of Pierce County, be approved?"
All persons desiring to vote in favor of the Act shall vote "Yes", and those persons desiring to vote for rejection of the Act shall vote "No". If more than one-half of the votes cast on such question are for approval of the Act, it shall become of full force and effect, otherwise it shall be void and of no force and effect. The expense of such election shall be borne by Pierce County. It shall be the duty of the judge of probate court to hold and conduct such election. He shall hold such election under the same laws and rules and regulations as govern special elections, except as otherwise provided herein. It shall be the duty of the judge of probate court to canvass the returns and declare and certify the result of the election. It shall be his further duty to certify the result thereof to the secretary of state.
Section 7. - General repeal.
All laws and parts of laws in conflict with this Act are hereby repealed.
DIVISION 2. - ELECTION OF PROBATE JUDGE[4]

Footnotes:
--- (4) ---
Editor's note— Printed herein is 1995 Ga. Laws (Act No. 203), page 4206. Amendments are indicated by parenthetical history notes following amended provisions. The absence of a history note indicates that the provision remains unchanged from the original. Obvious misspellings have been corrected without notation. For stylistic purposes, headings and catchlines have been made uniform, and expression of numbers in text as appears in the Code of Ordinances has been used. A consistent scheme of capitalization has also been used. Catchlines have been editorially supplied.

Sec. 1. - Judge shall first be elected.
The judge of the probate court of Pierce County shall be elected by the qualified voters of Pierce County in a nonpartisan primary and election. Except as otherwise provided in this Act, the judge of the probate court shall be elected pursuant to the general elections laws of Georgia.
Sec. 2. - Term.
Beginning with the election held in 1996 and every four years thereafter, the judge of the probate court shall be elected at the nonpartisan primary and general election immediately preceding the expiration of the term of office of the judge of the probate court, and shall take office on January 1 immediately following such election for a term of four years and until such judge's successor is elected and qualified.
(1995 Ga. Laws (Ex. Sess.)(Act No. EX7), page 233)
Sec. 3. - Candidates nominated.
Candidates for the office of judge of the probate court shall be nominated in a nonpartisan primary to be held at the same time as and in conjunction with the general primary every four years. A nominating petition shall not be required to place the name of any such candidate on the primary ballot. A candidate may have his or her name placed on the primary ballot by filing a notice of candidacy with the county election superintendent and by paying the qualifying fee.
Sec. 4. - Generally election.
The candidate receiving a majority of votes in the nonpartisan primary shall be the nominee for the office of judge of the probate court and shall be the only candidate for such office to have his or her name appear on the general election ballot. In the event no candidate receives a majority of the votes cast, the two candidates receiving the highest number of votes for the office shall be in a runoff to be held on the same day as a runoff from the general primary, as provided by state law, to determine which candidate will be on the general election ballot.
Sec. 5. - Nonpartisan election.
The names of all candidates for the office of judge of the probate court shall appear in a separate section of each primary and general election ballot of each elector. No party designation or affiliation shall appear beside the name of any such candidate on any primary or general election ballot, and no candidate for the office of judge of the probate court shall be nominated by any political party.
Sec. 6. - Statutory authority.
This Act is enacted pursuant to the authority of Code Section 21-2-139 of the O.C.G.A. [O.C.G.A. § 21-2-139].
Sec. 7. - General appeal.
All laws and parts of laws in conflict with this Act are repealed.
