Chapter 30 - FIRE PREVENTION AND PROTECTION[1]
Footnotes:
--- (1) ---
Cross reference— Buildings and building regulations, ch. 101; explosives, firearms, or similar devices, § 113-45(7).
State Law reference— Authority to provide police and fire protection, >Ga. Const. art. IX, § II, ¶ III(a)(1); statewide application of Standard Fire Prevention Code, O.C.G.A. § 8-2-25(a); regulation of fire and other hazards to persons and property generally, O.C.G.A. § 25-2-1 et seq.

ARTICLE I. - IN GENERAL

Sec. 30-1. - Tampering with alarm system.
It shall be unlawful for any person to willfully, maliciously or mischievously interfere or tamper with any fire alarm box or any of the appliances or apparatus connected therewith, located within the city.
(Code 1982, § 3-2-4)
Sec. 30-2. - Fire limits defined.
The fire limits of the city are defined as all that area within the city limits.
(Code 1982, § 3-2-22)
Cross reference— Definitions generally, § 1-2.
Sec. 30-3. - Mutual aid agreements.
(a)
The mayor and council may enter into mutual aid agreements with such other municipalities or localities as they deem appropriate. The fire limits of the city may be expanded during the performance of the duties as specified in such mutual aid agreements, but only while the fire department is actually rendering such aid. The rendering of aid shall include the time traveling to and returning from the location of such incidents.
(b)
The mayor and council may enter into agreements with any other entities that they shall deem appropriate and qualified, for the purpose of providing operational management of the fire prevention, fire suppression, and first responder emergency medical service functions to the residents of the city. Such entities may include, but shall not be limited to, self-governed, nonprofit corporations registered with the secretary of state's office. Such agreements shall include, but not be limited to, those jurisdictions which have existing mutual aid agreements with the city. Any such agreement shall contain provisions whereby the city can terminate, at the city's discretion, such agreement. In the absence of an agreement pursuant to this section, the language in section 30-31 shall prevail as relates to the operations of the fire department.
Secs. 30-4—30-30. - Reserved.
ARTICLE II. - FIRE DEPARTMENT

Sec. 30-31. - Composition.
The fire department shall be headed by a fire chief and such other volunteer members and employees as may be determined necessary by the mayor and council.
(Code 1982, § 3-2-1)
Sec. 30-32. - Interfering with equipment.
No person other than a duly enrolled member of the fire department shall ride upon the fire trucks of the city at any time, nor use, borrow or interfere with any fire department equipment, or attempt to use the equipment at the scene of a fire unless authorized to do so by the fire chief.
(Code 1982, § 3-2-2)
Sec. 30-33. - Enforcement.
Whenever the fire department is answering an alarm or operating at the scene of a fire or other emergency every enrolled member of the department, as well as the code compliance officer for the City of Mountain Park and any other duly sworn peace officer with jurisdiction in the City of Mountain Park, is hereby empowered and authorized to control and direct motor vehicle traffic, stop or move vehicles, and enforce all provisions of this article and any other code provisions the enforcement of which is deemed necessary to assist in the control of the fire or other emergency.
(Code 1982, § 3-2-3; Ord. No. 253-02, § 1, 9-16-2002)
Sec. 30-34. - Issuance of warnings and citations.
The fire chief or fire marshal or arson investigator, if they are state certified, as well as the code compliance officer for the City of Mountain Park and any other duly sworn peace officer with jurisdiction in the City of Mountain Park, may issue warnings and citations to any person found to be in violation of any of the provisions of this chapter or other applicable provisions of this Code. Whenever applicable, these cases may be adjudicated in the municipal court.
(Ord. No. 253-02, § 2, 9-16-2002)
Sec. 30-35. - Outdoor burning ban.
(a)
The fire chief, upon the advice and consent of council, may issue an outdoor burning ban.
(b)
After an outdoor burning ban has been enacted, said ban shall continue until such time as a majority affirmative vote of the mayor and city council ends the ban.
(c)
The outdoor burning ban shall apply to all areas within the geographic limits of the city, whether located in Cherokee or Fulton counties.
(d)
Notwithstanding the provisions contained herein, any county issued or state issued outdoor burning ban affecting property within the geographic limits of the City of Mountain Park shall supersede the city imposed ban.
(e)
Nothing in this section shall be construed to prohibit an outdoor cooking fire, provided that the cooking fire is contained in a properly constructed fire pit, grill or fireplace and that the cooking fire is attended by a competent adult in possession of a readily accessible and adequate means of extinguishment. For purposes of this section a functioning garden hose of such length to encircle the cooking fire and located within 50 feet of the cooking fire shall be considered an adequate means of extinguishment.
(Ord. No. 252-02 § 1, 9-16-2002)
