ARTICLE II. - ADULT ENTERTAINMENT
DIVISION 1. - GENERALLY

Sec. 22-31. - Definitions.
The following words, terms and phrases, when used in this article, shall have the meanings ascribed to them in this section, except where the context clearly indicates a different meaning:
Adult entertainment establishment means the premises on which defined establishments operate on which defined activities occur.
(1)
Adult bookstore means a business or establishment to which the public or any portion thereof is permitted and having a substantial or significant portion of its stock in trade, books, magazines or other periodicals which are distinguished or characterized by their emphasis on matter depicting, describing or relating to specified sexual activities or specified anatomical areas or an establishment with a segment or section, comprising five percent of its total floor space, devoted to the sale or display of such material, or five percent of its net sales consisting of printed material which are distinguished or characterized by their emphasis on matter depicting, describing or relating to specified sexual activities or specified anatomical areas.
(2)
Adult business means either:
a.
Any business or establishment to which the public or any portion thereof is permitted which is conducted exclusively for the patronage of adults and as to which minors are specifically excluded from patronage thereat either by law or by the operators of such business or establishment;
b.
Any business or establishment to which the public or any portion thereof is permitted where employees or patrons expose specified anatomical areas or engage in specified sexual activities; or
c.
Any other business or establishment to which the public or any portion thereof is permitted which offers its patrons services or entertainment characterized by an emphasis on matter depicting, describing, discussing or relating to specified sexual activities or specified anatomical areas.
(3)
Adult dancing establishment means a business or establishment to which the public or any portion thereof is permitted that features live performances by topless and/or bottomless dancers, go-go dancers, strippers or similar entertainers, where such performances are distinguished or characterized by an emphasis on specified sexual activities or specified anatomical areas.
(4)
Adult motion pictures theater means a business or establishment to which the public or any portion thereof is permitted and is used for presenting material distinguished or characterized by an emphasis on matter depicting, describing or relating to specified sexual activities or specified anatomical areas for observation by patrons therein, including a business or establishment wherein coin or slug operated or electronically, electrically or mechanically controlled still or motion picture machines, projectors or other image producing devices are maintained to show images and where the images so displayed are distinguished or characterized by an emphasis on, depicting or describing specified sexual activities or specified anatomical areas.
(5)
Adult video store means a business or establishment to which the public or any portion thereof is permitted and having a majority of its stock in trade in video tapes or movies or other reproductions, for sale or rent, which are distinguished or characterized by their emphasis on matter depicting, describing or relating to specified sexual activities or specified anatomical areas.
(6)
Bath house and massage parlor mean a business or establishment to which the public or any portion thereof is permitted and in which services offered include some form of physical contact between employee and patron and in which services offered are characterized or distinguished by an emphasis on specified sexual activities or specified anatomical areas.
(7)
Escort bureau/introduction services means any individual, business or establishment who, for a fee, commission, hire, reward, profit or other consideration, furnishes or offers to furnish to the public, or any portion thereof, names of persons, or who introduces, furnishes or arranges for persons to accompany other persons to social affairs or places of entertainment or amusement, or for persons to consort with other persons about any place of public resort or within any private quarters, all for the primary purpose of engaging in, describing or discussing specified sexual activities, or exposing specified anatomical areas.
(8)
Lingerie modeling studio means a business or establishment to which the public or any portion thereof is permitted whose primary business activity consists of live performers exhibiting or modeling lingerie or similar undergarments and are characterized or distinguished by an emphasis on specified sexual activities or specified anatomical areas.
Church means a place where persons regularly assemble for religious worship.
Conviction means adjudication of guilt, plea of guilty, plea of nolo contendere or the forfeiture of a bond when charged with a crime, but shall not include a discharge under provisions of what is commonly called the Georgia First Offender Act.
Distance and measurement mean the measurement in lineal feet by airline measurement between the property lines, using the nearest property lines of the land involved.
Employee means any person engaged to provide or in fact providing services for an adult entertainment establishment to patrons on a regular basis whether for legal consideration or otherwise. For the purpose of this article, independent contractors whose main purpose is to provide entertainment or other services to patrons, including but not limited to dancers and waitresses, employed or hired by an adult entertainment establishment, shall be considered as employees.
Minor means any person who has not attained the age of 18 years.
Park means any lands or facility owned, operated, controlled or managed by any county, city or federal government or any governmental entity or agency in and upon which recreational activities or places are provided for the recreation and enjoyment of the general public.
Residence means a house, apartment, mobile home, boarding or rooming house, duplex, or other multifamily housing, for human dwelling, or any properties owned therefor.
School means state, county, city, church or other schools, public or private, that teach the subjects commonly taught in the common schools of this state, and vocational schools, colleges, post high school learning centers, kindergartens and day care centers for persons of all ages.
Specified sexual activities includes any of the following:
(1)
Actual or simulated sexual intercourse, oral copulation, anal intercourse, oral anal copulation, bestiality, direct physical stimulation or unclothed genitals, flagellation or torture in the context of a sexual relationship, or the use of excretory functions in the context of a sexual relationship, and any of the following sexually oriented acts or conduct: sodomy, cunnilingus, fellatio, pedophilia, lesbianism, homosexuality;
(2)
Clearly depicted human genitals in a state of sexual stimulation, arousal or tumescence;
(3)
Use of human or animal ejaculation, sodomy, oral copulation, coitus, or masturbation;
(4)
Fondling of the human genitals, pubic region, buttocks or female breast so as to arouse or excite the sexual desires of a patron;
(5)
Sexually oriented torture; or
(6)
Fondling or other sexual contact with an animal so as to arouse or excite the sexual desires of a patron.
Specified anatomical areas includes the following:
(1)
Less than completely and opaquely covered human genitals, pubic region, or anus; or female breast below a point immediately above the top of the areola; or
(2)
Human male genitalia in a discernibly turgid state, even if completely and opaquely covered.
(Ord. No. 95-07, § 1, 12-18-1995)
Cross reference— Definitions generally, § 1-2.
Sec. 22-32. - Admission of minors.
It shall be unlawful for a licensee under this article to employ, admit or permit the admission of minors within a licensed premises.
(Ord. No. 95-07, § 2(1), 12-18-1995)
Sec. 22-33. - Serving minors.
It shall be unlawful for any person licensed under this article to sell, barter or give to any minor any service, material, device or thing sold or offered for sale by an adult entertainment establishment.
(Ord. No. 95-07, § 2(2), 12-18-1995)
Sec. 22-34. - Distance setbacks.
No adult entertainment establishment shall be located within the following distances:
(1)
500 feet of any single or multifamily residence or 500 feet of any parcel of land which is zoned for single or multifamily uses or purposes;
(2)
500 feet of a church, school, governmentally-owned or operated building, library, civic center, public park, hospital, nursing homes or community club;
(3)
1,000 feet of another adult entertainment establishment;
(4)
1,000 feet of an establishment selling alcoholic beverages.
(Ord. No. 95-07, § 2(3), 12-18-1995)
Sec. 22-35. - Employees restricted.
No adult entertainment establishment licensee shall employ or contract with any person to provide services or perform in such establishment who is a person not permitted for employment pursuant to this article.
(Ord. No. 95-07, § 2(4), 12-18-1995)
Sec. 22-36. - Record of employees.
An adult entertainment establishment licensee shall maintain and retain for a period of two years the names, addresses, date of birth and social security numbers of all employees.
(Ord. No. 95-07, § 2(5), 12-18-1995)
Sec. 22-37. - Closing hours.
An adult entertainment establishment shall be closed between 12:00 midnight and 10:00 a.m. Monday through Saturday, on Sunday, and on Christmas Day.
(Ord. No. 95-07, § 2(6), 12-18-1995)
Sec. 22-38. - Clear view of interior of premises.
No booth, screen, partition of other obstruction shall be permitted within the interior of any adult entertainment establishment so as to prevent a clear view throughout the premises, except for separate offices, kitchens, restrooms, or other areas not frequented by patrons.
(Ord. No. 95-07, § 2(7), 12-18-1995)
Sec. 22-39. - Interior connections to other establishments.
No premises for an adult entertainment establishment shall have any interior connections or doors with any other place of business.
(Ord. No. 95-07, § 2(8), 12-18-1995)
Sec. 22-40. - View of interior from exterior.
No adult entertainment establishment shall be operated such that the activity on the interior of the premises is visible from the exterior of the premises.
(Ord. No. 95-07, § 2(9), 12-18-1995)
Sec. 22-41. - Alcoholic beverages prohibited.
No licensee under this article shall permit alcoholic beverages of any kind to be used, sold, possessed or consumed in or on the premises.
(Ord. No. 95-07, § 2(10), 12-18-1995)
Sec. 22-42. - Illegal substances, gambling prohibited.
No licensee under this article shall permit illegal drugs or illegally controlled substances of any kind to be allowed, permitted, used, possessed or sold, and no gambling shall be allowed or permitted in or on the premises.
(Ord. No. 95-07, § 2(11), 12-18-1995)
Sec. 22-43. - Exposure of person by employees.
No licensee under this article shall permit an employee to expose for public view his or her specified anatomical areas in a lewd and obscene fashion.
(Ord. No. 95-07, § 2(12), 12-18-1995)
Sec. 22-44. - Responsibility for acts of employees.
Every act or omission of any employee constituting a violation of the provisions of this article shall be deemed the act or omission of the licensee if such act or omission occurs either with the authorization, knowledge or approval of the licensee or as a result of the licensee's failure to supervise the employee's conduct.
(Ord. No. 95-07, § 2(13), 12-18-1995)
Sec. 22-45. - Regulations applicable to adult dancing establishments, lingerie modeling studios.
The following additional regulations apply to adult dancing establishments, and lingerie modeling studios (herein "adult dance establishments") as described herein:
(1)
All live dancing and entertainment shall occur on a platform intended for that purpose which is raised at least four feet from the next highest level of the remainder of the floor. Tables used for seating and service to customers do not meet these standards and shall not be used for performing purposes.
(2)
No live dancing or entertaining shall occur closer than ten feet from any patron.
(3)
No dancer, entertainer or employee shall fondle or caress any patron nor allow any patron to fondle or caress any dancer, entertainer or employee so as to arouse or excite the sexual desires of a patron.
(4)
No patron shall directly pay or give any gratuity to any dancer or entertainer.
(5)
No dancer or entertainer shall solicit or accept any pay or gratuity directly from any patron nor allow any patron to directly pay or give any gratuity to any dancer or entertainer.
(6)
All areas of the licensed premises shall be fully lighted at all times when open for business, which shall mean illumination equal to 3.5 foot candles per square foot.
(7)
No licensee shall permit any employee to use artificial devices or inanimate objects to depict any of the prohibited activities described in this article.
(8)
No licensee shall permit an employee to insert an object into her vagina or her or his anal orifice, except for personal hygiene or necessity.
(9)
No licensee shall permit an employee to engage in actual or simulated genital masturbation.
(10)
No licensee shall permit a male employee to exhibit an unclothed erect penis.
(11)
No licensee shall permit an employee to engage in or simulate bestiality.
(12)
No licensee shall permit an employee to engage in actual or simulated sexual activity with another person.
(13)
No licensee shall permit an employee to sit upon or straddle the leg, legs, lap or body of any patron therein.
(14)
No licensee shall permit any alcoholic beverages to be served, consumed, possessed or offered on the premises or any parking area designated to use of premises by anyone.
(15)
No licensee shall permit or allow a patron to participate in any act or activity upon the licensed premises which an employee is prohibited from performing.
(Ord. No. 95-07, § 3, 12-18-1995)
Secs. 22-46—22-65. - Reserved.
DIVISION 2. - LICENSE

Sec. 22-66. - Required.
It shall be unlawful for any person or legal entity to engage in, conduct or carry on, in or upon any premises within the city any of the adult entertainment establishments defined in this article without a license so to do. No license so issued shall condone or make legal any activity thereunder if the same is deemed illegal or unlawful under the laws of the state or the United States.
(Ord. No. 95-07, § 4, 12-18-1995)
Sec. 22-67. - Operation of unlicensed premises unlawful.
It shall be unlawful for any person to operate an adult entertainment establishment unless such business shall have a currently valid license or shall have made proper application for renewal within the time required thereof under this article, which license shall not be under suspension or permanently or conditionally revoked.
(Ord. No. 95-07, § 5, 12-18-1995)
Sec. 22-68. - Application generally.
(a)
Any person or legal entity desiring to obtain a license to operate, engage in, conduct or carry on any adult entertainment establishment shall make application to the city administrator or a designated representative. Prior to submitting such application, a nonrefundable fee as set forth in the schedule of fees and charges on file in the office of the city clerk shall be paid to the city to defray, in part, the cost of investigation and report required by this article.
(b)
The application for a license under this section does not authorize the engaging in, operation of, conduct of or carrying on of any adult entertainment establishment.
(c)
Where the applicant under this section is a:
(1)
Corporation, any license shall be applied for by and shall be issued to the corporation and either the majority shareholder thereof, or a person employed full time in a managing capacity by the corporation.
(2)
Partnership, any license shall be applied for by and shall be issued to the partnership and either the managing general partner thereof, or a person employed full time in a managing capacity by the partnership.
(3)
Sole proprietor, any license shall be applied for by and shall be issued to the sole proprietor if he is working full time in a managing capacity on the premises, and, if not, then to the sole proprietor and a person employed full time in a managing capacity by the sole proprietor.
For the purposes of this subsection, the words "managing capacity" shall mean the president or chief executive officer or managing or general partner of a corporation or partnership, or a person who has responsibility for management of the operations at the location to be licensed and who is a full time employee of the corporation, partnership, proprietor, or other ownership entity.
(Ord. No. 95-07, § 6(1), (2), (6), 12-18-1995)
Sec. 22-69. - Application contents; supporting documents.
(a)
Application for license under this division shall be written and on forms supplied by the city administrator.
(1)
Such application shall state the name, address, social security number and date of birth of the applicant; and the nature and character of the business to be carried on.
(2)
If the applicant is a corporation, the name of the corporation shall be set forth exactly as shown in its articles of incorporation or charter, together with the state and date of incorporation, and the names, addresses, dates of birth and social security numbers of each of its current officers and directors as well as all stockholders holding more than five percent of the outstanding shares of the corporation. If the applicant is a partnership, it shall set forth the name, residence address, dates of birth and social security numbers of the partners. If one or more of the partners is a corporation, the provisions of this section pertaining to corporations shall apply.
(3)
Address of the premises to be licensed.
(4)
The name of the owner of the premises and, if leased, a copy of the lease agreement.
(5)
A plat, filed in triplicate, by a registered land surveyor, licensed by the state, showing the location of the proposed premises is not inconsistent with the provisions contained in section 22-32.
(6)
The name, address, social security number and date of birth of any and all persons who have a financial interest of any type in the entity which is applying for the license.
(7)
Any other information reasonably required by the city administrator in verifying the right of the applicant to obtain a license.
(b)
Should the requirements of this article dictate that more than one individual and/or entity apply for and a license issue to such applicants, then all such applicants shall, on such application, designate the name, address and telephone number of an individual to act as agent for all applicants/licensees for the purpose of receiving communications and notices under this article. Proof of delivery to such agent shall be conclusive proof of receipt by a licensee of such notice, process or information.
(c)
Each application must be complete in its entirety before being accepted by the city administrator for filing and processing.
(d)
All applicants for licenses as to any premises which is to be subsequently renovated or improved shall furnish in triplicate plans and renderings of the premises as it is to exist at the time of opening. Any premises to be constructed or renovated prior to opening shall be constructed, renovated or built so as to be equal to and compatible with the surrounding neighborhood or better. The premises shall comply with all zoning, building, health and similar city codes.
(e)
Each application for an adult entertainment establishment license shall be verified and acknowledged under oath to be true and correct by:
(1)
If the applicant is an individual, the individual;
(2)
If a partnership, the manager or general partner;
(3)
If a corporation, the president of the corporation;
(4)
If any other organization or association, the chief administrative official.
(Ord. No. 95-07, § 7, 12-18-1995)
Sec. 22-70. - Investigation; issuance.
The city administrator shall have a reasonable time, not to exceed 30 days, to investigate the application and the background of the applicant for a license under this division. Upon completion of the investigation, the city administrator shall immediately issue such license if he finds:
(1)
The application conforms in all respects to the provisions of this article and other relevant city ordinances.
(2)
The applicant has not made a material misrepresentation in the application.
(3)
The applicant has fully cooperated in the investigation of the application.
(4)
The applicant, if an individual, or any officers or directors or shareholders holding more than five percent of the outstanding shares of the corporation, if the applicant is a corporation, or any of the partners, including limited partners, if the applicant is a partnership, has not been convicted in a court of competent jurisdiction of any crime involving sexual assault, sexual battery, prostitution, rape, sexual offenses against children, unnatural sex acts, public indecency, or any other sex act, whether attempted or consummated, prohibited by law within five years from the date of the application.
(5)
The applicant, if an individual, or any officers or directors or shareholders holding more than five percent of the outstanding shares of the corporation, if the applicant is a corporation, or any of the partners, including limited partners, if the applicant is a partnership, has not, during the past ten years, had an adult entertainment establishment license or other similar license or permit denied or revoked in this city or any other local governmental jurisdiction located in or out of this state prior to the date of application.
(6)
The building, structure, equipment, or location of such business, as proposed by applicant, would comply with all applicable distance provisions of this article and would qualify to receive a certificate of occupancy.
(7)
The applicant is at least 18 years of age.
(8)
That on the date the business for which a license is required herein commences and thereafter, there will be a responsible person on the premises to act as manager at all times during which the business is open.
(9)
Notwithstanding subsections (1) through (8) of this section, no license shall be issued to an applicant if within 12 months immediately preceding the filing of an application the same applicant for a license or renewal has been rejected for any location, if such rejection was based upon the applicant's failure to meet the terms of this article applicable to the applicant as opposed to rejection for reasons related to the location itself.
(Ord. No. 95-07, § 8(1)—(9), 12-18-1995)
Sec. 22-71. - Fee.
An annual license fee as set forth in the schedule of fees and charges on file in the office of the city clerk shall be paid to the city for each license issued under this division.
(Ord. No. 95-07, § 8(10), 12-18-1995)
Sec. 22-72. - Refusal, appeal.
If the city administrator following investigation of the applicant for a license under this division deems that the applicant does not fulfill the requirements as set forth in this article, he shall so notify the applicant of such decision in writing and the basis thereof. Any such decision shall be final unless an appeal is filed with and to the mayor and council by any aggrieved party on or before ten days of the date of the decision of the city administrator. A hearing by the mayor and council on the appeal shall occur within 30 days of its filing at a regular or special meeting of the mayor and council.
(Ord. No. 95-07, § 14, 12-18-1995)
Sec. 22-73. - Nature of license.
All licenses issued under this division shall be a mere grant of privilege to carry on such business during the term of the license subject to all the terms and conditions imposed by this article and related laws, applicable provisions of this article and other ordinances and resolutions of the city relating to such business.
(Ord. No. 95-07, § 6(3), 12-18-1995)
Sec. 22-74. - Notice printed on license.
All licenses under this division shall have printed on the front these words: "This license is a mere privilege subject to be suspended and revoked under the provisions of the Ordinances of the City of Monroe, Georgia."
(Ord. No. 95-07, § 6(4), 12-18-1995)
Sec. 22-75. - Separate license for separate premises.
A separate license shall be required for each place of business coming under the provisions of this article.
(Ord. No. 95-07, § 6(5), 12-18-1995)
Sec. 22-76. - Renewal.
Licenses for adult entertainment establishments shall be renewed on a calendar year basis provided that the licensee continues to meet the requirements set out in this article. The renewal fee for the adult entertainment establishment license shall be as set forth in the schedule of fees and charges on file in the office of the city clerk. Renewal applications shall be submitted by November 15 of each year prior to January 1 of the year for which such license is requested.
(Ord. No. 95-07, § 9, 12-18-1995)
Sec. 22-77. - Transfer, assignment, etc.
(a)
No adult entertainment establishment license may be sold, transferred or assigned by a licensee, or by operation of law, to any other person or persons. Any such sale, transfer or assignment, or attempted sale, transfer or assignment, shall be deemed to constitute a voluntary surrender of such license and such license shall thereafter be null and void.
(b)
If the licensee is a partnership or corporation, and one or more of the partners or shareholders, as the case may be, should die, one or more of the surviving partners or shareholders who were partners or shareholders at the time of issuance of the license may acquire, by purchase or otherwise, the interest of the deceased partner or shareholder without affecting a surrender or termination of such license. In such case, the licensee shall immediately notify the city administrator.
(c)
An adult entertainment establishment license issued to a corporation shall be deemed terminated and void when either any outstanding stock of the corporation is sold, transferred or assigned after the issuance of a license, or any stock authorized but not issued at the time of the granting of a license hereunder is thereafter issued and sold, transferred or assigned.
(Ord. No. 95-07, § 10, 12-18-1995)
Sec. 22-78. - Change of location.
No licensee under this division shall change the location of the establishment without obtaining a new license.
(Ord. No. 95-07, § 11, 12-18-1995)
Sec. 22-79. - Change of name.
No licensee under this article shall advertise, operate, conduct, manage, engage in, or carry on an adult entertainment establishment under any name other than his name and the name of the business as specified on his license.
(Ord. No. 95-07, § 12, 12-18-1995)
Sec. 22-80. - Modification of premises.
After issuance of any license under this division, no change in the location of the building within the premises or other changes shall be made which would affect compliance with any distance or other requirement of this article.
(Ord. No. 95-07, § 13, 12-18-1995)
Sec. 22-81. - Suspension.
The city administrator shall suspend a license for a period of 180 days if he determines that a licensee or an employee has violated any section of this article. If the city administrator deems a license suspension appropriate, he shall so notify the licensee of such decision in writing and the basis thereof. Such suspension shall take effect ten days following the city administrator's notification unless an appeal is filed with and to the mayor and council by the aggrieved party on or before ten days of the date of receipt by the aggrieved party of the decision of the city administrator. A hearing by the mayor and council of the appeal shall occur within 30 days of its filing in a regular or special meeting of the mayor and council. Enforcement of the suspension shall be stayed pending the mayor and council's ruling on the licensee's appeal.
(Ord. No. 95-07, § 15(a), 12-18-1995)
Sec. 22-82. - Revocation.
(a)
The city administrator shall revoke a license if a cause for suspension occurs and the license has been suspended within the past 24 months.
(b)
The city administrator shall revoke a license if he determines that:
(1)
A licensee gave false or misleading information in the material submitted during the application process.
(2)
A licensee or an employee knowingly operated the sexually-oriented business during a period of time when the licensee's license was suspended.
(3)
A licensee or an employee has knowingly allowed any act of sexual intercourse, sodomy, or copulation, masturbation, other illegal sexual conduct, or any illegal activity to occur in or on the licensed premises.
(4)
The owner or operator of the licensed establishment knowingly allowed a person under 18 years of age to enter the establishment.
(5)
A licensee allows alcoholic beverages of any kind to be sold, used, consumed, or possessed in or on the premises.
(c)
If the city administrator deems a license revocation appropriate, he shall so notify the licensee of such decision in writing and the basis thereof. Such revocation shall take effect ten days following the city administrator's serving of the written decision upon the licensee unless an appeal is filed with and to the mayor and council by the aggrieved party of the decision of the city administrator. A hearing by the mayor and council on the decision shall occur within 30 days of its filing in a regular or special meeting of the mayor and council.
(Ord. No. 95-07, § 15(b), 12-18-1995)
Sec. 22-83. - Appeal procedure.
(a)
An applicant or licensee who has timely filed an appeal with the mayor and council as allowed by this article shall be entitled to a hearing license/permit, or such updated address which may have subsequently been provided in writing to the city administrator. Notices mailed as described above shall be deemed given on the second day subsequent to their deposit in the United States Mail.
(b)
It shall be the duty of each applicant, licensee and employee to furnish notice to the city administrator in writing of any change of mailing address.
(Ord. No. 95-07, § 15(c), 12-18-1995)
Secs. 22-84—22-105. - Reserved.
DIVISION 3. - EMPLOYEES

Sec. 22-106. - Permit required.
A permit to work in or be employed by an adult entertainment establishment shall be required for all employees or independent contractors thereof. No person requiring a permit under this division may be employed by or work in an adult entertainment establishment until such person has filed an application, paid the fee to, and obtained a work permit from the city administrator.
(Ord. No. 95-07, § 16(2)(a), (b), 12-18-1995)
Sec. 22-107. - Qualifications.
No person shall be allowed to work as an independent contractor or be employed at an adult entertainment establishment who:
(1)
Is less than 18 years of age.
(2)
Has been convicted in a court of competent jurisdiction of any felony or a crime involving sexual assault, sexual battery, prostitution, rape, sexual offenses against children, unnatural sex acts, public indecency or any other sex act, whether attempted or consummated, prohibited by law within the preceding five years.
(Ord. No. 95-07, § 16(1)(a), 12-18-1995)
Sec. 22-108. - Effect of conviction while employed.
No person who is convicted in a court of competent jurisdiction of any of the crimes mentioned in section 22-107(2) while employed in an adult entertainment establishment shall thereafter work on any premises requiring a permit under this division for a period of five years following such conviction.
(Ord. No. 95-07, § 16(1)(b), 12-18-1995)
Sec. 22-109. - Report of employees by licensee.
It shall be the duty of all licensees of an adult entertainment establishment to file with the city administrator the names of all employees with their home addresses, home telephone numbers, dates of birth, social security numbers, and places of employment. Changes in the list of employees must be filed with the city administrator within three days from the date of any such change.
(Ord. No. 95-07, § 16(2)(d), 12-18-1995)
Sec. 22-110. - Permit application.
Application for a permit to work in an adult entertainment establishment shall be written and completed on forms supplied by the city administrator. Such application shall state the name and address of the place of employment and any other information reasonably required by the city administrator in verifying the right of the applicant to obtain such permit.
(Ord. No. 95-07, § 16(1)(c), 12-18-1995)
Sec. 22-111. - Action on application.
The city administrator shall notify the applicant of his decision in writing if such employee is not qualified for a permit under this division. Otherwise, the city administrator shall issue a work permit. Any such decision shall be final and shall become effective unless an appeal is filed with and to the mayor and council by the aggrieved party on or before ten days after the date of receipt by the aggrieved party of the decision of the city administrator. A hearing by the mayor and council of the appeal shall occur within 30 days of its filing at a regular or special meeting of the mayor and council.
(Ord. No. 95-07, § 16(2)(b), 12-18-1995)
Sec. 22-112. - Fee.
A nonrefundable annual fee as set forth in the schedule of fees and charges on file in the office of the city clerk shall be paid to the city to defray, in part, the cost of investigation and report required by this article.
(Ord. No. 95-07, § 16(2)(c), 12-18-1995)
Sec. 22-113. - Possession of permit.
Employees holding permits issued pursuant to this division shall at all times during their working hours have such permits available for inspection at the premises.
(Ord. No. 95-07, § 16(2)(e), 12-18-1995)
Sec. 22-114. - Release of criminal record.
Each employee of an adult entertainment establishment shall provide a signed and notarized consent, on forms prescribed by the state crime information center, authorizing release of such employee's criminal record to the city administrator who shall make a decision on the application within 15 days after the application is complete.
(Ord. No. 95-07, § 16(2)(f), 12-18-1995)
Sec. 22-115. - Expiration.
Any permit for employment in an adult entertainment establishment shall expire 12 months from the date of issuance unless earlier revoked.
(Ord. No. 95-07, § 16(2)(c), 12-18-1995)
Secs. 22-116—22-145. - Reserved.
