ARTICLE VI. - PRIVATE CLUBS[5]

Footnotes:
--- (5) ---
State Law reference— Sale of distilled spirits by private clubs, O.C.G.A. § 3-7-1 et. seq.

Sec. 6-331. - Definitions.
The following words, terms and phrases, when used in this article, shall have the meanings ascribed to them in this section, except where the context clearly indicates a different meaning:
Fixed salary means the amount of compensation paid any member, officer, agent, or employee of a bona fide private club as may be fixed for him by its members at a prior annual meeting or by the governing body out of the general revenue of the club and shall not include a commission on any profits from the sale of alcoholic beverages. For the purpose of this definition, tips or gratuities which are added to the bills under club regulation shall not be considered as profits from the sale of alcoholic beverages.
Private club means any nonprofit association organized under the laws of this state which:
(1)
Has been in existence at least one year prior to the filing of its application for a license to be issued pursuant to this article;
(2)
Has at least 75 regular dues-paying members;
(3)
Owns, hires or leases a building or space within a building for the reasonable use of its members with:
a.
Suitable kitchen and dining room space and equipment;
b.
A sufficient number of employees for cooking, preparing and serving meals for its members and guests; and
(4)
Has no member, officer, agent or employee directly or indirectly receiving, in the form of salary or other compensation, any profits from the sale of alcoholic beverages beyond a fixed salary.
Sports club means an association or corporation organized and existing under the laws of the state, organized and operated primarily to provide a location for the patrons thereof to engage in sporting events. To qualify for an alcoholic beverage consumption on-premise license, a sports club must have been actively in operation within the city at least two years prior to an application for license under this chapter; provided, however, the two-year operational requirement shall not apply to golf club associations or golf club corporations where the selling or the serving of alcoholic beverages is to take place on the golf course premises. A sports club organized or operated primarily for serving of alcoholic beverages shall not qualify for licensing under this article, and accordingly shall not be permitted to serve alcoholic beverages at any time. Unless otherwise indicated, a sports club licensee shall comply with all other requirements imposed upon retail consumption dealers.
( Ord. No. 2018-01 , art. I(exh. A), 1-16-2018)
Sec. 6-332. - Regulation of sale of alcoholic beverages.
Private clubs or sports clubs may sell and dispense alcoholic beverages upon compliance with all applicable ordinances and regulations of the city governing the sale of such beverages and upon payment of such license fees and taxes as may be required by this chapter.
( Ord. No. 2018-01 , art. I(exh. A), 1-16-2018)
Sec. 6-333. - Certain organizations exempt from food establishment requirements.
Veterans' organizations, fraternal organizations, and other nonprofit organizations currently having tax exempt status under either the United States Internal Revenue Code or the state income tax law shall not be required to operate a food establishment serving prepared food. However, any such organization selling or dispensing alcoholic beverages shall be subject to all ordinance regulations dealing with general licensing and on-premise consumption establishments under this chapter.
( Ord. No. 2018-01 , art. I(exh. A), 1-16-2018)
Sec. 6-334. - Investigative and administrative costs.
Each application for a license under this article shall be accompanied by a certified check for the full amount of the license fee, together with a separate certified check or cash in the amount of $250.00 to defray investigative and administrative costs. If the application is denied and the license refused, the deposit representing the license fee shall be refunded; but the $250.00 cost paid for investigation and administration shall be retained. However, any person applying for more than one license shall pay only one fee to defray investigative and administrative expenses, which fee shall be the largest of the investigative and administrative fees authorized under this chapter. Any applicant for a license under this article who has in existence at the time of making the new application an existing license under this article shall pay no investigative and administrative costs.
( Ord. No. 2018-01 , art. I(exh. A), 1-16-2018)
Sec. 6-335. - Hours and days of sale.
(a)
No alcoholic beverages shall be sold for consumption on the premises of private clubs except between the hours of 9:00 a.m. and 1:55 a.m. Monday through Saturday.
(b)
Alcoholic beverages shall not be sold for consumption at any time in violation of any state law or local ordinance or regulation or of any special order of the mayor and city council.
(c)
The sale of alcoholic beverages for consumption on the premises is permitted on Sundays from 12:30 p.m. until 12:00 midnight in a private club or sports club provided a Sunday sales license has been obtained.
( Ord. No. 2018-01 , art. I(exh. A), 1-16-2018; Ord. No. 2019-03 , art. I(exh. A), 12-10-2019)
Secs. 6-336—6-350. - Reserved.
