ARTICLE III. - NUISANCES[3]
Footnotes:
--- (3) ---
Editor's note— Sections 42-66—42-81 of Art. III have been deleted by the editor, inasmuch as they have been superseded by Ord. No. 01-01, §§ 11-2-1—11-2-6, adopted June 19, 2001, codified herein as §§ 18-141—18-147. Said §§ 42-66—42-81 pertained to nuisances generally, and was derived from Ord. No. 98-02, art. I, §§ 11-2-1—11-2-5, adopted March 17, 1998.
Cross reference— Nuisance buildings, § 18-141 et seq.
State Law reference— Nuisances, O.C.G.A. title 41.

DIVISION 1. - GENERALLY

Secs. 42-66—42-95. - Reserved.
DIVISION 2. - VEGETATION

Sec. 42-96. - Certain weeds, grasses and plants declared a nuisance; exemptions.
(a)
Any weeds such as jimson, burdock, ragweed, thistle, cocklebur or other weeds of a like kind found growing in any lot or tract of land in the city, and any weeds, grasses or plants other than trees, bushes, flowers or other ornamental plants, growing to a height exceeding 12 inches anywhere in the city are hereby declared to be a nuisance, subject to abatement as provided in this article.
(b)
Garden flowers, vegetables, cultivated agricultural crops, ornamental shrubbery and trees shall not be considered weeds, grass or vegetation within the meaning of this section.
(c)
The provisions of this article shall apply only to property located within subdivisions of record in the office of the clerk of the superior court of the county, and to the original city lots. They shall not apply to undeveloped areas of unsubdivided land within the city.
Sec. 42-97. - Height permitted.
It shall be unlawful for the owner, lessee, tenant or other person having the possession and control of real property, or responsible for its management, maintenance or upkeep, to permit the growth and accumulation of weeds, grass or other vegetation to a height in excess of 12 inches above the ground.
Sec. 42-98. - Notice to abate.
(a)
For a violation of this article, the owner of the property shall be given notice to remove such excess growth within seven days from the receipt of the notice. Such notice may be served personally, or may be served by registered or certified mail, or by attaching a copy of the notice to the principal entrance of the dwelling, and shall contain a description of the location of the property upon which such condition exists.
(b)
Where notice is given by registered or certified mail, the depositing of such notice in the United States mail by registered or certified mail, return receipt requested, addressed to the owner of the property at the address shown on the latest ad valorem tax return of such owner for such property shall constitute sufficient service of such notice, where the return receipt shall be duly returned signed by the addressee or someone residing on the premises, or where the return receipt or other notification from the federal postal service indicates that the notice was refused, or that there was a refusal to sign the return receipt or that delivery of the notice at such address could not be made.
(c)
Should the code enforcement officer or any officer of the city authorized to issue citations determine that any person is in violation of this section for a subsequent violation occurring within a 12-month period since the time of the prior violation, seven days' notice to correct the subsequent violation shall not be required as under subsection (a). The code enforcement officer or any officer of the city authorized to issue citations may proceed immediately as allowed under section 42-99 with regard to the subsequent violation occurring within a 12-month period from the time of the prior violation without the requisite seven days' notice period to correct the violation.
( Ord. No. 2016-07 , art. I, 11-8-2016)
Sec. 42-99. - Abatement of city; notice of abatement.
(a)
Upon the failure to comply within the required time by the owner of the property when properly notified pursuant to the provisions of section 42-98, the city is authorized to have the contractor enter upon the property, and the contractor is authorized to enter same, and cut and remove the weeds, grass and vegetation. The city shall issue a "lot cleaning order" to the contractor, who shall promptly perform the work and submit his bill to the city. The city shall inspect the work, and if satisfactory, shall approve the bill for payment and forward it to the city treasurer for payment.
(b)
The city treasurer shall promptly send to the owner of the property a statement of account demanding payment thereof on or before a date named in such demand, which shall not be earlier than 15 days nor later than 45 days after payment to the contractor.
(c)
If payment under subsection (b) of this section shall not have been made on or before the date named, the city treasurer shall issue a notice directed to the owner of the property and signed by the municipal judge, notifying such owner to show cause before the judge at a time and place and on a date named therein why execution should not issue against the property for its approval amount.
(d)
If it shall appear at such hearing that the property was in violation of this article, that the notice required of section 42-98 was given, that the work was performed and the cost thereof paid by the city, and that the city has not been reimbursed, execution shall issue for such amount, signed by the city treasurer and shall be executed by the chief of police in the same manner as tax executions are executed.
(e)
If the owner of the property is unknown, or cannot be located, the provisions of subsections (b) and (c) of this section shall not apply, but in lieu thereof, a notice shall be published once a week for four weeks in a newspaper of general circulation in the city, which notice shall be addressed "To Whom It May Concern," shall describe with reasonable particularity the property involved, a statement of the amount due for the removal of the weeds, grass or other vegetation, and shall notify all persons interested to show cause before the municipal judge at a time and place and on a date named in the notice why execution should not issue in rem against the property for such amount. In such event, subsection (a) of this section will apply, but the execution shall issue against the property in rem.
Sec. 42-100. - Remedies.
The remedies provided in this article are cumulative of all other remedies the city has for the accomplishment of the objectives set forth in this article. Nothing in this article shall be construed as relieving any person from the obligation to comply with this Code, all ordinances, laws or regulations of the city, or to permit the maintenance by any person of a nuisance, and any nuisance shall be subject to be abated in the manner provided by law.
Sec. 42-101. - Award of contracts for clearing of lots by city.
Prior to the commencement of each fiscal year, the city shall obtain bids from contractors or other qualified persons for clearing lots of weeds, grass and other vegetation not in excess of two inches in diameter, and for clearing lots of weeds, grass and other vegetation in excess of two inches but not in excess of four inches in diameter, and the mayor and city council shall award a contract to the lowest and best bidder, such contract to remain in effect during the ensuing fiscal year.
Secs. 42-102—42-135. - Reserved.
