ARTICLE X. - HOUSING
DIVISION 1. - GENERALLY

Secs. 476—485. - Reserved.
DIVISION 2. - DEKALB COUNTY OGLETHORPE HOUSING DEVELOPMENT AUTHORITY

Sec. 486. - Short title.
This act [division] shall be known and may be cited as the DeKalb County Oglethorpe housing development authority act.
(Acts 1974, p. 2591, § 1; Acts 1975, p. 3053, § 1)
Sec. 487. - Legislative findings and declaration of public necessity.
It is hereby found, determined and declared that there continues to exist in DeKalb County, Georgia, a seriously inadequate supply of, and critical need for, decent, safe and sanitary housing within the financial means of families and persons of limited income, including but not restricted to those families and persons displaced by slum clearance and the clearance of blighted areas, transportation projects or other public programs. This shortage of decent, safe and sanitary housing is inimical to the safety, health, convenience and welfare of the residents of DeKalb County and the State of Georgia and otherwise exacerbates existing slum conditions which in turn contributes substantially and increasingly to the spread of crime, impairs economic values, necessitates excessive and disproportionate expenditures of public funds for crime prevention and punishment, public health and safety, fire and accident prevention and other services, substantially impairs or arrests the sound growth of urban areas, aggravates traffic problems and promotes juvenile delinquency and other social ills. It is hereby found that the ordinary operations of private enterprise cannot provide an adequate supply of decent, safe and sanitary housing which persons and families of limited income can rent or purchase. It is also found that private enterprise alone cannot provide or achieve the urgently needed rehabilitation of existing housing to a decent, safe and sanitary condition so that it can be rented or purchased by families and persons of limited income. As a result, families and persons of limited income are forced to reside in housing which is indecent, unsafe and unsanitary. Accordingly, it is determined that it is a valid public purpose and a matter of public health, safety, convenience and welfare to provide decent, safe and sanitary housing for families and persons of limited income who otherwise would be unable to rent or purchase same and to encourage the investment of private capital and the participation of private enterprise in providing such housing.
It is further found that there exists at 2170 Johnson Ferry Road in DeKalb County, Georgia, a tract of land on which certain improvements presently exist, commonly and hereinafter called the "Oglethorpe tract." Said tract is appropriate for development, rehabilitation and use as a housing development wherein decent, safe and sanitary housing can be provided for families and persons of limited income and said tract is hereby designated as the area of operation of the authority. Notwithstanding the fact that the authority shall be restricted geographically to said area of operation insofar as the physical location of any of its housing developments or projects is involved, it shall be concerned with the housing needs of all families and persons of limited income who are residents of DeKalb County.
(Acts 1974, p. 2591, § 2; Acts 1975, p. 3053, § 3)
Sec. 488. - Definitions.
The following words and terms shall have the meanings indicated unless the context shall clearly indicate a different meaning:
(a)
Authority shall mean the DeKalb County Oglethorpe housing development authority created by section 4 of this act [§ 489 of this appendix], and "board" shall mean the board of directors of the authority.
(b)
County shall mean DeKalb County, Georgia.
(c)
Board of commissioners shall mean the board of commissioners of DeKalb County, Georgia.
(d)
Community facilities and related facilities shall mean the land, buildings, improvements and equipment for such incidental and appurtenant recreational, community, educational, cultural and commercial facilities, rights, licenses and interests as the authority determines will improve the quality and viability of the housing developments or projects which it sponsors.
(e)
Housing development shall mean an undertaking sponsored by the authority in its area of operation in DeKalb County for the purpose of providing decent, safe and sanitary housing to families and persons of limited income. Such development may include community facilities.
(f)
Land development shall mean that component of housing development which includes land for making, installing, or constructing housing improvements, including, but not limited to, water lines and water supply installations; sewer lines and sewer disposal installations; steam, gas, and electrical lines and installations; and roads, streets, curbs, gutters, and sidewalks, whether on or off the site, which the authority deems necessary or desirable to prepare such land for decent, safe and sanitary housing.
(g)
Families or persons of limited income shall mean families or persons of low or moderate income deemed by the authority to require such assistance in securing decent, safe and sanitary housing as it is empowered by this act [division] to provide on account of insufficient family or personal income taking into consideration, without limitation, such factors as (i) the amount of the total income of such families or persons available for housing needs; (ii) the size of the family; (iii) the cost and condition of housing facilities which are available; (iv) the eligibility of such families and persons for federal housing assistance of any type predicated upon their low or moderate income status; and (v) the ability of such families and persons to compete successfully in the then existing housing market and to pay the amounts at which private enterprise is providing decent, safe and sanitary housing. Except as otherwise provided in this act [division], the authority shall fix income limits as to families or persons who shall be entitled to rent or purchase dwelling accommodations in any housing development sponsored by the authority. In defining the income of any family for the purpose of this act [division], the authority shall consider income from all sources of each member of the family residing in the household, except there shall be excluded:
(1)
The income of any family member, other than a head of household or his spouse, who is under eighteen (18) years of age or is a full-time student;
(2)
The first three hundred dollars ($300.00) of the income of a secondary wage earner who is the spouse of the head of household;
(3)
An amount equal to three hundred dollars ($300.00) for each member of the family residing in the household (other than the head of household or his spouse) who is under eighteen (18) years of age or who is eighteen (18) years of age or older and is disabled or handicapped or a full-time student;
(4)
Nonrecurring income, as determined by the authority;
(5)
Five (5) percentum of the family's gross income; and
(6)
Such extraordinary medical or other expenses as the authority approves for exclusion.
In no event shall the authority commit to aid any family, including "one-person families," pursuant to this act [division] where the income of such family at the time exceeds eighty (80) percentum of the median family income of families of the same size in DeKalb County. Where disabled, handicapped or elderly persons are involved, the authority may, pursuant to rules and regulations adopted by its board of directors, exceed the limitation expressed in the next preceding sentence, but in no event shall it exceed a limitation of ninety-five (95) percentum of said median family income.
(h)
Area of operation shall mean the area within which the authority is authorized by this act [division] to carry out the public purposes herein specified.
(Acts 1974, p. 2591, § 3; Acts 1975, p. 3053, §§ 2, 4, 5)
Sec. 489. - Created; members; officers; rules.
There is hereby created a body corporate and politic to be known as the "DeKalb County Oglethorpe housing development authority" hereinafter referred to as the "authority," which shall be deemed an instrumentality of the State of Georgia.
The chairman [chief executive] of the board of commissioners, with the advice and consent of the board of commissioners, shall appoint the board of directors of the authority. The board shall be composed of seven (7) members, each of whom shall be a resident of the county. The membership of the board shall include, but not be limited to, a representative of the development and building industry, a representative of a county financial institution, a resident of the neighborhood surrounding the authority's area of operation, a member of the DeKalb housing authority and a member of the DeKalb County planning commission. The chairman [chief executive] of the board of commissioners or his designee shall serve as an ex officio nonvoting member of the board. The determination of the chairman [chief executive] of the board of commissioners and of the board of commissioners that appointed members of the board are representative of the specified groups named above shall be conclusive.
Four (4) members of the board of directors of the authority shall be appointed for an initial term of two (2) years, and three (3) members of the board of directors shall be appointed for an initial term of three (3) years. Their successors shall serve for two (2) years and shall be appointed by the chairman [chief executive] of the board of commissioners as set out above. Any member of the board of directors of the authority whose term shall expire shall continue in office until his successor has been appointed and qualified. In the event of a vacancy in the office of any director caused as a result of death, resignation, incapacity, or otherwise, the chairman [chief executive] of the board of commissioners shall appoint a member to serve for the balance of the unexpired term.
The board of directors of the authority shall annually elect a chairman and vice-chairman. The chairman of the board of directors shall be the chief executive officer of the authority. The vice-chairman of the board of directors shall perform the duties of the chairman in the event there is a vacancy in the office of the chairman or when otherwise authorized by the bylaws of the authority.
The board of directors may employ an individual to serve as an executive director. The executive director shall be charged with the day-to-day operations of the authority, may appoint and supervise additional staff, in accordance with merit system requirements, and may be called upon to perform other duties and obligations set forth by the board of directors or by the bylaws thereof.
For such legal services as it may require, the board of directors may call upon the county attorney or may employ its own legal counsel.
Except for the issuance of debt which is the exclusive responsibility of the board of directors, the board may delegate to the executive director such powers or duties as it may deem appropriate.
The board of directors shall make and adopt its own bylaws, rules, and regulations for its own government, consistent with this act [division]. A majority of the members of the board of directors then in office shall constitute a quorum for the transaction of any business and of the exercise of any power or function of the authority. No vacancy in the board of directors shall impair the right of a majority of such quorum of the board to exercise all rights and to perform all duties and powers of the authority.
The board of directors shall receive no compensation but shall be reimbursed for expenses actually incurred in the performance of the duties of the authority in accordance with DeKalb County budgetary policies.
No member of the board of directors or employee of the authority shall voluntarily acquire any interest, direct or indirect, in any project or any property included or planned to be included in any project, or in any contract or proposed contract in connection with any project to be undertaken by the authority. Where the acquisition is not voluntary, such member of the board of directors or employee shall immediately disclose such interest in writing to the board of directors and such disclosures shall be entered upon the minutes of the board. Upon such disclosure, such member of the board of directors or employee of the authority shall not participate in any action by the board of directors involving such project, property, or contract. If any member of the board of directors or employee of the authority previously owned or controlled an interest, direct or indirect, in any project or in any property included or planned to be included in any project or in any contract or any proposed contract in connection with any project, he shall immediately disclose such interest in writing to the board of directors and such disclosures shall be entered upon the minutes of the board. Upon such disclosure, such board member or employee of the authority shall not participate in any action of the board of directors of the authority involving such project, property, or contract. Any violation of the provisions of this section shall constitute misconduct in office. If said misconduct has been committed by a member of the board of directors, said member shall be removed by the chairman [chief executive officer] of the board of commissioners of DeKalb County but only after he shall have been given a written notice of the specific charges against him at least ten (10) days prior to a hearing thereon which shall be conducted by the board of commissioners. In the event of the removal of any member of the board of directors, a record of the proceedings, together with the specific charges and findings of fact thereon, shall be filed with the clerk of the board of commissioners.
If said misconduct has been committed by a member of the staff of the authority, said member shall be removed by the board of directors but only after he shall have been given a written notice of the specific charges against him at least ten (10) days prior to a hearing thereon, which shall be conducted in accordance with part II, chapter 14 [present location unknown] of the Code of DeKalb County.
The authority shall not enter into any contract with nor take any official action favorably affecting any person or business represented by such person who has been within the preceding twelve-month period a member of the board of directors or employee of the authority.
The authority and its corporate existence shall continue until terminated by law provided, however, that no such law shall take effect so long as the authority shall have obligations outstanding, unless adequate capital or other provision has been provided for payment thereof. Upon the termination of the existence of the authority, all of its rights and properties shall pass to and be vested in DeKalb County.
(Acts 1974, p. 2591, § 4; Acts 1975, p. 3053, §§ 2, 6, 7)
Sec. 490. - Powers.
Except as otherwise limited by this act [division], the authority shall have the following powers:
(a)
To sue and be sued;
(b)
To have a seal and alter the same at its pleasure;
(c)
To make and execute contracts and all other instruments necessary or convenient for the exercise of its purpose, powers and functions under this act [division];
(d)
To make and alter bylaws and other rules and regulations, not inconsistent with this act [division], for the purpose of carrying into effect the purpose and powers, of the authority, its organization, and management;
(e)
To acquire, hold, manage, operate and dispose of real and personal property, tangible and intangible, for its corporate purposes;
(f)
To appoint officers, agents, and employees; to prescribe their duties and qualifications and to fix their compensation in accordance with applicable rules and regulations of the merit system;
(g)
To borrow money from any source whatsoever, to issue promissory notes, revenue bonds or other such instruments as evidence of such indebtedness, to assign, transfer, mortgage or pledge as collateral therefor any real or personal property, tangible and intangible, or any interest therein whatsoever which it may own or possess and to provide for the rights and remedies of the lenders or holders of such notes, bonds or other such instruments;
(h)
To sell, lease, exchange, transfer, assign, pledge or dispose of any real or personal property or interest therein at public or private sale without the necessity of advertising same on such terms as the authority in its sole discretion shall deem beneficial for the accomplishment of its corporate purposes;
(i)
To acquire, or to contract to acquire from any person, firm or corporation, municipality, federal, or state agency, by grant, purchase, or otherwise, leasehold, real or personal property or any interest therein; to own, hold, clear, improve, demolish, reconstruct, and rehabilitate, and to sell, assign, exchange, transfer, convey, lease, mortgage or otherwise dispose of or encumber same. Nothing in this act [division] shall be deemed to impede the operation and effect of DeKalb County zoning, building, and housing ordinances or ordinances relating to subdivision control, land development, fire prevention, or other ordinances having to do with housing or the development thereof;
(j)
To insure or provide for the insurance of any real or personal property or operations of the authority against any risk or hazards; to procure insurance or guarantees from the United States government for the payment of any debts or parts thereof secured by mortgages on any real or personal property included in any of its housing developments;
(k)
To invest any funds held in reserves or sinking funds established pursuant to any resolution or trust indenture authorizing the issuance of its bonds or other obligations, in general and direct obligations of the United States of America and in obligations which are fully guaranteed as to principal and interest by the United States of America;
(l)
To encourage research in and demonstration projects to develop new and better techniques and methods for increasing the supply of housing for limited income persons and families;
(m)
To arrange or contract for the furnishing by any person or agency, public or private, of services, privileges, works, or facilities for, or in connection with a housing development; and, notwithstanding anything to the contrary contained in this act [division] or any other provision of law to include in any contract let in connection with a housing development any requirement or condition which the United States or the State of Georgia may attach to its financial aid for any such housing development, or which the authority may deem appropriate;
(n)
To accept grants or financial assistance from the State of Georgia or any political subdivision thereof or the United States for, or in aid of, any housing development within its area of operation; to acquire, take over, lease, or manage, the housing development within its area of operation, owned by the United States; and to comply with such conditions and enter into such mortgages, security arrangements, trust indentures, leases, or agreements as may be necessary, convenient or desirable; it being the purpose and intent to authorize this authority to do any and all things necessary or desirable to secure the financial aid or cooperation of the State of Georgia or any political subdivision thereof, or the United States in any undertaking, construction, maintenance, or operation of any housing development or endeavor undertaken by this authority;
(o)
The authority shall not be empowered to exercise the right of eminent domain;
(p)
To contract with the United States of America and any of its agencies and with any one (1) or more municipal corporations located wholly or partially within said county for a term not to exceed fifty (50) years in furtherance of its corporate purposes and said county and such municipal corporations, subject to the approval of their governing bodies, are authorized to enter into such contracts with the authority; provided, however, all site plans or financial arrangements exceeding fifty thousand dollars ($50,000.00), excluding bonds, wherein the authority obligates itself to either the United States, State of Georgia, DeKalb County, or other lender, be it public or private, in connection with the purposes of this act [division], until the issuance of bonds by the authority for the purpose of funding such plan or arrangement, shall be submitted to the board of commissioners for approval by a majority vote thereon before said financial agreement shall be executed by the board of directors of the authority, or any executive officer thereof, with any other person, firm, partnership, corporation or any other business entity;
(q)
To purchase and enter into commitments to purchase from lenders mortgage loans originated by such lenders to finance housing for eligible persons and families of limited income, subject to such terms and conditions as the authority may determine are required to assure the accomplishment of its corporate purposes. Such purchases of mortgage loans by the authority from lenders shall be subject to the following terms and conditions:
(1)
At or before the time of transfer, the lender shall certify to the authority with respect to all mortgage loans transferred to the authority:
(A)
That the mortgage loan would in all respects be a prudent investment for its own account; and
(B)
That the mortgage loans transferred to the authority are for housing for persons and families of limited income.
(2)
Mortgage loans purchased or sold may include, but shall not be limited to, loans which are insured, guaranteed or assisted in whole or in part by the United States of America or an instrumentality thereof.
(3)
The authority shall adopt rules governing the purchase and sale of mortgage loans, the making of loans to lenders, including rules as to:
(A)
Procedures for the submission of requests or the invitation of proposals for loans to lenders or from lenders for the purchase and sale of mortgage loans;
(B)
Locations of dwelling units or other requirements of housing to be financed by such mortgage loans;
(C)
Instructions as to interest rates on such mortgage loans or the rate realized therefrom by lenders;
(D)
Schedules of any fees and charges necessary to provide for expenses and reserves of the authority; and
(E)
Any other matters reasonably related to the duties and the exercise of the powers of the authority under this section;
(r)
To make loans to mortgage lenders under terms and conditions requiring the proceeds thereof to be used by such lenders for the making of mortgage loans to eligible persons and families of limited income. At or before the time of the making of a loan by the authority to a lender, such lender shall certify to the authority that it will proceed as promptly as practicable to make and disburse from such loan proceeds mortgage loans for residential housing for persons and families of limited income within the county, having a stated maturity of not less than fifteen (15) years from the date thereof, in an aggregate principal amount equal to the amount of such loan, or to invest in short-term obligations pending the making of such mortgage loans.
(1)
Loans made under this subsection shall be evidenced by notes, bonds or other securities of the lender in accordance with rules of the authority, including but not limited to, securities of the lender which are guaranteed by the United States or any instrumentality thereof.
(2)
The authority may require additional security as to the payment of both the principal and interest by a pledge of and lien upon collateral security in such amounts and consisting of such obligations and securities as the authority shall by resolution determine to be necessary to assure the payment of such loans and the interest thereon as the same become due. A lender shall, if collateral is to be provided for the loan, upon receipt of the loan proceeds from the authority, enter into an agreement with the authority containing such provisions as the authority considers necessary and advisable to identify and maintain such collateral and service the same and shall provide that such lender shall hold such collateral as an agent for the authority and shall be held accountable in accordance with provisions of such agreement. The lien upon such collateral security and the agreement with the authority shall be binding from and after the time made against all parties having claims of any kind against such lender.
(Acts 1974, p. 2591, § 5; Acts 1975, p. 3053, §§ 2, 8, 9)
Sec. 491. - Purpose.
The authority shall exist for the purpose of developing and promoting the development of decent, safe and sanitary housing and other community facilities in its area of operation for lease or sale to families and persons of limited income pursuant to the declaration of necessity set forth above.
In no event, however, shall the authority be obliged to require that resales of individual residences which it shall have sold or on which it shall hold a mortgage or with respect to which it shall have indirectly provided a mortgage loan through a loan to a lender, be made only to a person or family of limited income, since any such resales to persons or families of more than limited income will also serve a broad housing purpose of this state and DeKalb County, namely, that of dispersing publicly assisted housing.
(Acts 1974, p. 2591, § 6; Acts 1975, p. 3053, § 10)
Sec. 492. - Operation not for profit.
The authority shall manage and operate its housing and other real estate operations in an efficient manner so as to enable it to accomplish the purpose mentioned above at the lowest possible rental rate or purchase price consistent with providing decent, safe, and sanitary dwelling accommodations. The authority shall not construct or operate any development for profit or as a source of revenue to the county. The authority shall fix the rentals or sales price of the dwellings at rates no higher than it shall find necessary to produce revenues which (together with all other available monies, revenues, income, and receipts of the authority from whatever source derived) will be sufficient to:
(a)
Pay, as same become due, the principal and interest on any mortgage and loans of the authority which, from time to time, are outstanding or the principal and interest on any other obligation which, from time to time is outstanding;
(b)
Meet the cost of maintaining and operating the projects (including the cost of any insurance), the administrative expenses of the authority, and provide reasonable reserves for maintenance and operating expenses;
(c)
Create and maintain reasonable reserves of capital for its future operations, for debt service and for extensions and improvements; and
(d)
Discharge any other pecuniary obligation of the authority of any nature whatsoever incurred in furtherance of the authority's corporate purposes.
(Acts 1974, p. 2591, § 7; Acts 1975, p. 3053, §§ 11, 12)
Sec. 493. - Tax-exempt status of authority properties; payments in lieu of taxes.
The property of the authority is declared to be public property used for essential public and governmental purposes and not for the purposes of private benefit or income, and such property of the authority shall be exempt from all taxes and special assessments of the State of Georgia, or any political subdivision thereof, public body or taxing district; provided, that in lieu of such taxes or special assessments, the authority may agree to make payments for improvements, services and facilities furnished by the county, any municipality or any political subdivision, but in no event shall such payments exceed the estimated cost to the county or any such municipality or political subdivision of the improvements, services or facilities to be so furnished. (Acts 1974, p. 2591, § 8; Acts 1975, p. 3053, § 13)
Sec. 494. - Revenue bonds.
(a)
The authority shall have the power and authority and is hereby authorized from time to time to issue its revenue bonds, which shall have all the qualities and incidents of negotiable instruments, in such principal amounts as, in the opinion of the authority, shall be necessary to provide sufficient funds to achieve the corporate purposes stated herein, taking into consideration, without limitation; the acquisition of land, improvements, easements, rights and franchises; the acquisition, construction and equipping of new housing; the acquisition, rehabilitation, renovation, refurbishing and equipping of existing structures; the acquisition, construction, rehabilitation and equipping of community facilities; the providing of funds to purchase from lenders mortgage loans originated by such lenders to finance housing for eligible persons and families of limited income; the providing of funds to be lent to mortgage lenders under terms and conditions requiring the proceeds to be used by such lenders for the making of mortgage loans to eligible persons and families of limited income; the payment for engineering, architectural, legal and other related costs; the payment of financing charges; the payment of interest on such bonds during any such period of construction or rehabilitation and for one (1) year thereafter; the establishment of operating or debt service reserves to secure such bonds; the payment of fees to fiscal agents for financial and other advice or supervision; the payment for plans and specifications and other expenses incidental to determining the feasibility or practicability of a housing development or project; the payment of administrative expenses and all other expenses incurred and disbursements made properly necessary and incident to the acquisition or development of the completed housing development and properly necessary or incident to the authorization and issuance of such bonds; and all other expenditures of the authority which are incident to and necessary and convenient in order for the authority to secure to itself or to promote and develop the creation of the housing development or developments required in carrying out its corporate purposes.
(b)
The bonds of each issue shall be dated, bear interest at such rate or rates as shall be set by the board of directors, and shall be payable in such manner and at such time or place as the authority may determine at the time of issue.
(c)
The authority may issue refunding bonds for the purpose of paying or retiring bonds previously issued by it.
(d)
Bonds of the authority shall be issued and validated in accordance with the applicable provisions of the Revenue Bond Law (Ga. L. 1937, p. 761) [O.C.G.A. § 36-82-60 et seq.], as now or hereafter amended, and may be sold at public or private sale, and at a discount if the authority determines the same appropriate.
(e)
While any of the bonds issued by the authority remain outstanding, the powers, duties, or existence of the authority or of its officers, employees, or agents shall not be diminished or impaired in any manner that will affect adversely the interest and rights of the holders of such bonds. The provisions of this section shall be for the benefit of the authority and the holders of any such bonds, and, upon the issuance of bonds under the provisions hereof, this section shall constitute a contract with the holders of such bonds.
(f)
Neither the board of directors nor any person executing the bond shall be liable personally on the bonds by reason of the issuance thereof. The bonds and other obligations of the authority (and such bonds and obligations shall so state on their face) shall not be the debt of DeKalb County or the State of Georgia or any political subdivision thereof and neither DeKalb County nor the State of Georgia or any political subdivision thereof shall be liable thereon, nor in any event shall such bonds or obligations be payable out of funds or properties other than those of the authority. The bonds shall not constitute an indebtedness within the meaning of any constitutional or statutory debt limitation or restriction. Bonds of the authority are declared to be issued for an essential public and governmental purpose and to be public instrumentalities and, together with interest thereon and income therefrom, shall be exempt from taxes.
(Acts 1974, p. 2591, § 9; Acts 1975, p. 3053, §§ 2, 14)
Sec. 495. - Provisions of bonds, trust indentures, mortgages.
In connection with the issuance of bonds or the incurring of obligations and in order to secure the payment of such bonds or obligations, the authority, in addition to other powers shall have the power:
(a)
To pledge, hypothecate, assign and transfer, by resolution, indenture or other instrument or agreement, all or any part of its gross or net rents, fees, revenues, choses in action or other tangible or intangible properties to which its right then exists or may thereafter come into existence;
(b)
To convenant [covenant] as to the issuance of such bonds in escrow or otherwise, and as to the use and disposition of the proceeds thereof;
(c)
To provide for the replacement of lost, destroyed, and mutilated bonds;
(d)
To convenant [covenant] against extending the time for the payment of its bonds or interest thereon; and to redeem the bonds, and to convenant [covenant] for the redemption and to provide the terms and conditions thereof;
(e)
To prescribe the procedure, if any, by which the terms of any contract with the bondholders may be amended or abrogated, the amount of bonds the holders of which must consent thereto and the manner in which such consent may be given;
(f)
To convenant [covenant] as to the rights, liabilities, powers, and duties arising upon the breach by the authority in regards to any covenant, condition or obligations; and to covenant and prescribe as to events of default and terms and conditions upon which any or all of its bonds of [or] obligations shall become or may be declared due for maturity, and as to the terms and conditions upon which such declaration and its consequences may be waived;
(g)
To vest in a trustee or trustees or the holders of bonds or any proportion of them the right to enforce the payment of the bonds or any covenant securing or relating to the bonds; to vest in a trustee or trustees the right, in the event of a default by the authority, to take possession and use, operate and manage any housing project for any real property belonging to the authority, and to collect the rents and other revenues arising therefrom and to dispose of such monies in accordance with the agreement of the authority with said trustee or trustees; to provide for the power and duties of the trustee or trustees and to limit the liabilities thereof; and to provide for the terms and conditions upon which the trustee or trustees of the holders of the bonds or any proportion of them may enforce any convenant [covenant] or rights securing or relating to the bonds;
(h)
To exercise all or any part or combination of the powers herein granted; to make covenants other than and in addition to the covenants here and especially authorized of like and different character; to make such covenants and do any and all such acts and things which may be necessary or convenient or desirable in order to secure its bonds, or, in the absolute discretion of the authority, as will tend to make the bonds more marketable notwithstanding that such covenants, acts, or things may not be enumerated herein.
(Acts 1974, p. 2591, § 10; Acts 1975, p. 3053, §§ 2, 15)
Sec. 496. - Reports.
At least once a year, the board of directors shall file with the board of commissioners a report of its activities for the preceding year along with a financial statement, and shall make recommendations with reference to such additional legislation or action as it deems necessary in order to carry out the purposes of this act [division].
(Acts 1974, p. 2592, § 11)
Sec. 497. - Meetings of board of directors.
All meetings of the board of directors shall be open to the public and no official action of the board of directors shall be valid unless same is conducted in a meeting open to the public. The time, date and place of said meetings shall be in the sole discretion of the board of directors of the authority provided, however, the board of directors shall transact no business and exercise no powers of the authority except at meetings conducted within the limits of DeKalb County, Georgia. The board of directors may adopt a bylaw, rule or regulation to provide for the manner in which and by whom its meetings are to be called.
(Acts 1974, p. 2591, § 12; Acts 1975, p. 3053, § 16)
Secs. 498—550. - Reserved.
