DIVISION 3. - FINANCE

Sec. 71. - Payment of claims for injury to personal property.
The board of commissioners of DeKalb County, Georgia, as the governing authority of said county, in addition to all powers heretofore conferred upon it, is hereby authorized and empowered to pass ordinances, resolutions, rules and regulations for the payment of claims out of the treasury of DeKalb County to owners of personal property, which personal property has been injured, damaged or destroyed by employees of DeKalb County who injure, damage or destroy same within the scope of their employment. The board of commissioners shall have no authority to pay any claim in excess of two hundred dollars ($200.00) and such authority shall not extend to the payment of any claim for personal injuries resulting from the misconduct, whether same be wilful or wanton, or negligence of said employees, unless otherwise authorized by this constitution or by law except as otherwise provided herein, and nothing herein shall be construed as waiving any immunity or privilege of any kind now or hereafter enjoyed by DeKalb County, as a political subdivision of the State of Georgia, or other public body, or member of the governing authority of DeKalb County, or immunity or privilege of any kind now or hereafter enjoyed by any supervisor, administrator, employee or other elected or appointed officer, public body, board, or agency, of DeKalb County, Georgia.
(Acts 1976, p. 1825, § 1)
Editor's note— The above is a local constitutional amendment to Ga. Const. 1945, art. VII, § I, par. II. Pursuant to Ga. Const. 1983, art. XI, § I, par. IV, and subject to certain exceptions, constitutional amendments were repealed as of July 1, 1987 unless continued by one (1) of the methods provided in such paragraph on or before such date. The above amendment was continued by Acts 1985, p. 5006. The introductory language for the amendment which states what portion of the constitution is amended has been deleted.
Sec. 72. - Revenue anticipation obligations for grandstands, stadiums.
Provided further, that revenue anticipation obligations may be issued by the City of Atlanta, Fulton County or DeKalb County, or either of them or by any public corporation created by them or either of them, to provide funds for the construction, in whole or in part of grandstands and stadiums or either of them, or to provide funds to extend, repair or improve such existing facilities. Such revenue anticipation obligations shall be payable, as to principal and interest, only from revenue produced by such facilities, and shall not be deemed debts of or to create debts against, the issuing political subdivisions within the meaning of the constitution as amended; and no such issuing political subdivision shall exercise the power of taxation for the purpose of paying the principal or interest of any such revenue anticipation obligations or any part thereof.
(Acts 1947, p. 1759, § 1)
Editor's note— The above is a local constitutional amendment to Ga. Const. 1945, art. VII, § VII, par. V. Pursuant to Ga. Const. 1983, art. XI, § I, par. IV, and subject to certain exceptions, constitutional amendments were repealed as of July 1, 1987 unless continued by one (1) of the methods provided in such paragraph on or before such date. The above amendment was continued by Acts 1986, p. 4786. The introductory language for the amendment which states what portion of the constitution is amended has been deleted.
Secs. 73—100. - Reserved.
