ARTICLE I. - IN GENERAL

Sec. 13-1. - Definitions.
For the purpose of this chapter, the following words and phrases shall have the meanings respectively ascribed to them by this section:
Board means the DeKalb County Board of Health, State of Georgia.
Department means the department of human resources, State of Georgia.
Director means the chief executive officer of the board as defined in O.C.G.A. §§ 31-3-11 and 31-3-12, or the designee of the director.
(Code 1976, § 12-1001; Ord. No. 88-04a, 8-9-88)
Cross reference— Definitions and rules of construction generally, § 1-2.
Sec. 13-2. - Selection of members of board of health.
The following procedure shall be used for selecting a member of the board of health whenever the legal situs of the largest municipality of the county lies within an adjoining county:
(1)
The county governing authority shall select the chief executive officer, by whatever name designated, of the governing authority of any municipality lying wholly or partially within the county to fill the position on the board authorized by O.C.G.A. § 31-3-2(a)(7) or any other provisions.
(2)
The chief executive officer so selected may designate another member of the respective municipal governing authority, whose term of office is the same as that of the chief executive officer, to serve in the place of the chief executive officer.
(3)
The chief executive officer so selected or the chief executive officer's designee shall serve for a term of office as a member of the board concurrent with the term of office as a member of the municipal governing authority.
(4)
A vacancy in the position on the board which is held by the chief executive officer or the chief executive officer's designee shall be filled for the unexpired term by the county governing authority.
(Code 1976, § 12-1007; Ord. No. 88-04a, 8-9-88)
Sec. 13-3. - Inspection warrants; investigations.
(a)
The director may obtain an inspection warrant in accordance with the provisions of O.C.G.A. tit. 31, ch. 5, art. 2 [§ 31-5-20 et seq.] when there is probable cause to believe that a condition or circumstance exists which legally justifies such an inspection to enforce the regulations of the board, the rules of the department, or a provision of law.
(b)
The director shall promptly investigate every bona fide complaint coming within the jurisdiction of the board. The director may exercise discretion to refuse to investigate anonymous complaints.
(Code 1976, § 12-1002; Ord. No. 88-04a, 8-9-88)
Sec. 13-4. - Permits and approvals generally.
All applications for permits or written approval required by any regulation of the board of health shall be made on forms prescribed and furnished by the director and shall be signed by the applicant, who shall be the person responsible for conformance to the conditions of the permits or approval applied for. Applications shall contain such information and be accompanied by such plans as the director shall deem necessary. A permit issued to a particular person or for a designated place or purpose shall not be valid for use by any other person or for any other place or purpose than that designated therein. These permits or written approvals may contain general and specific conditions and every person who has obtained a permit or written approval containing these conditions shall conform to the conditions prescribed in the permit or written approval and to the provisions of all applicable regulations. Every permit shall expire as stated on the permit and may be renewed, suspended for cause or revoked by the director after due notice and hearing.
(Code 1976, § 12-1003; Ord. No. 88-04a, 8-9-88)
Sec. 13-5. - Approval of business licenses and building permits.
(a)
Whenever any regulation of the board requires approval by the director of plans for any building or structure, no municipality or agency of the county shall issue or renew a building permit for this building or structure without first having obtained a written statement from the director that the plans therefor comply with all the applicable regulations of the board.
(b)
Whenever any regulation of the board of health requires sanitary inspection and approval of any establishment by the director, no municipality or agency of the county shall issue or renew any business license for this establishment without first having obtained a written statement from the director that the establishment complies with all applicable regulations of the board.
(c)
Nothing in this section shall be construed to restrict or abrogate the authority of any municipality or agency of the county to adopt and enforce additional regulations or ordinances or to enforce existing regulations or ordinances relative to the regulation, control, issuance, renewal or revocation of any business license or building permit, except as herein provided.
(d)
It shall be the duty of the director to keep the appropriate municipal and county officials informed as to the provisions of this section and the regulations of the board to which it applies.
(Code 1976, § 12-1004; Ord. No. 88-04a, 8-9-88)
Sec. 13-6. - Conflicting provisions.
Whenever there is in effect any rule or provision of any regulation or ordinance of any governmental agency or municipality which is more strict than the corresponding provision of a regulation of the board, the director shall hold in abeyance the enforcement of this provision of the board regulation and cooperate with the agency or municipality in enforcing the stricter rule or provision of its regulations or ordinances. If the director elects to hold in abeyance the enforcement of this provision and, after a reasonable time, the agency or municipality shall have failed to enforce its rule or the provision of its regulations or ordinances, the director shall proceed with the enforcement of the corresponding provision of the board regulation.
(Code 1976, § 12-1005; Ord. No. 88-04a, 8-9-88)
Sec. 13-7. - Violations.
Any person who violates any provision of this chapter shall be guilty of an offense and subject to the provisions of section 1-10 and O.C.G.A. § 31-5-8.
(Code 1976, § 12-1006; Ord. No. 88-04a, 8-9-88)
Secs. 13-8—13-25. - Reserved.
