ARTICLE X. - DOMESTIC PARTNERSHIPS

Sec. 20-200. - Definitions.
[The following words, terms and phrases, when used in this article, shall have the meanings ascribed to them in this section, except where the context clearly indicates a different meaning:]
Declaration of domestic partnership means a form provided by the county finance department in which two (2) people of the same gender agree to be jointly responsible for the necessities of life incurred during the domestic partnership and that all qualifications for domestic partnership are met when the declaration is signed. The form will require both partners to provide reasonable proof of their primary, regular and permanent residence address. The form must be signed under penalty of perjury and must be witnessed and notarized.
Domestic partnership means two (2) people of the same gender who live together in a single home and have signed a declaration of domestic partnership in which they attest that:
(1)
They share the same primary, regular and permanent residence and have lived together for the previous twelve (12) months (documentation must be submitted verifying joint residency);
(2)
They have a committed personal relationship with each other that is intended to be lifelong;
(3)
The employee's partner is a dependent of the employee under Georgia law;
(4)
They are not married as recognized by Georgia law to anyone or legally separated from anyone;
(5)
They have only one current domestic partner;
(6)
They are eighteen (18) years of age or older;
(7)
They are competent to enter into a contract;
(8)
They are not related by blood closer than would bar marriage in the state;
(9)
They are each other's sole domestic partner;
(10)
They agree to file a termination of domestic partnership within ten (10) days if any of the facts set out in this definition change;
(11)
Any prior domestic partnership declared under this section, in which their domestic partner participated with a third party, was terminated not less than twelve (12) months prior to the date of such affidavit and, that notice of termination was provided to the county in writing to the finance department;
(12)
They agree that the county employee shall have the sole and exclusive right to make all benefit elections on behalf of the domestic partner;
(13)
They agree that the county employee shall be responsible for any and all tax liability associated with any benefits provided to the domestic partner, including imputed taxable income and be subject to tax withholding or other tax treatment;
(14)
They agree under penalty of perjury under the laws of Georgia that all information in the declaration of domestic partnership is true and correct.
Live(d) together means that the two (2) people claiming domestic partnership status share the same primary, regular and permanent residence. It is not necessary that the legal right to possess the residence be in both names. Domestic partners do not cease to live together if one leaves the shared residence for a period not to exceed six (6) months, but intends to return. Whether the relationship between these two (2) people is or is not sexual is in no way relevant for the purposes of determining eligibility under this article.
(Ord. No. 01-03, Pt. I, 4-26-01)
Sec. 20-201. - Effect of declaration of domestic partnership.
(a)
Rights and duties created. Neither this article nor the filing of a declaration of domestic partnership shall create any legal rights or duties from one of the parties to the other, except those that specifically refer to domestic partnership. Nothing in this article shall be construed to explicitly or implicitly create a marital relationship. This article does not attempt to alter or affect the laws in the state that regulate any private or civil relationships. This article shall not be construed to conflict with, alter or affect the laws of this state or the United States.
(b)
Nothing contained in this article shall create any rights in either domestic partner that are not covered, included or created in the underlying insurance or benefits plan documents of the county.
(Ord. No. 01-03, Pt. I, 4-26-01)
Sec. 20-202. - Establishing existence of domestic partnership.
(a)
Generally. Domestic partners, one of whom is an employee of the county, may establish the existence of their domestic partnership by presenting an original declaration of domestic partnership to the finance department of the county. The finance department will file the declaration. The standard declaration form will be available in the finance department during normal business hours.
(b)
Limitations. The finance department shall only accept for filing declarations of domestic partnership submitted by domestic partners at least one of whom is an employee of the county.
(c)
Amendments to the declaration. A partner may amend a declaration of domestic partnership filed with the finance department at any time to show a change in such partner's primary residence address.
(d)
New declarations of domestic partnership. No person who has created a domestic partnership may create another until twelve (12) months after a notice of termination has been signed and filed with the finance department.
(Ord. No. 01-03, Pt. I, 4-26-01)
Sec. 20-203. - Records, copies, filing fees.
Records of the county's finance department. The finance director shall keep a record of all declarations of domestic partnerships, amendments to declarations of domestic partnership, and all notices of termination. The records shall be maintained so that amendments and notices of termination shall be filed with the declaration of domestic partnership to which they pertain.
(Ord. No. 01-03, Pt. I, 4-26-01)
Sec. 20-204. - Ending domestic partnerships.
(a)
Termination. A domestic partnership ends when:
(1)
One partner sends the other partner written notice that such partner has ended the domestic partnership;
(2)
One of the partners dies; or
(3)
The partners no longer meet one (1) or more of the qualifications or conditions for domestic partnership.
(b)
Notice of termination. When a domestic partnership ends, the partners must execute a notice of termination naming the partner and stating that the partnership has ended. The notice of termination must be dated and signed under penalty of perjury by at least one (1) of the partners. The notice of termination must be filed with the finance department.
Notwithstanding any of the above, the county shall revoke a declaration of a domestic partnership if the county finds that the partners no longer meet one (1) or more of the qualifications or conditions for domestic partnership. The effective date of such termination will be retroactive to the date that such qualifications or conditions were no longer met. The county may revoke the declaration of the domestic partnership upon recommendation of the finance director and approval of the chief executive officer without notice or hearing to the employee or domestic partner. Nothing in this Code shall create any right to a notice or hearing concerning the termination of the domestic partnership. In all circumstances, the provisions of the county's insurance plans shall control regarding coverage, eligibility and benefits provided to domestic partners.
(Ord. No. 01-03, Pt. I, 4-26-01)
