27-2.31 DIVISION 31. - M (LIGHT INDUSTRIAL) DISTRICT

Sec. 2.31.1. - Statement of purpose and intent.
The purpose and intent of the board of commissioners in establishing the M (Light Industrial) District is as follows:
A.
To provide areas for the establishment of businesses engaged in the manufacturing, processing, creating, repairing, renovating, painting, cleaning, or assembling of goods, merchandise, or equipment and the sale and distribution of such goods, merchandise or equipment in locations so designated in the comprehensive plan;
B.
To provide an environment for light industrial uses that produces no appreciable impact on adjacent properties and preserve the appeal and appearance of residential and commercial areas;
C.
To assure that all establishments located within the M (Light Industrial) District operate in compliance with the noise standards contained in this chapter and that any negative noise impact resulting from the use of land within the M (Light Industrial) District is contained within the boundaries of said district and does not create noise problems for adjoining residential, office or commercial districts;
D.
To provide an area within DeKalb County for recycling and green businesses to locate;
E.
To generate employment opportunities and economic development;
F.
To assure that M (Light Industrial) districts are so located that transportation access to thoroughfares and freeways is available;
G.
To allow for the conversion of industrial buildings which are fifty (50) years of age or older to multi-family dwellings so as to promote living and working space as well as historic preservation;
H.
To implement the future development map of the county's most current comprehensive plan.
( Ord. No. 15-06 , 8-25-2015)
Sec. 2.31.2. - Permitted and special land uses.
Permitted uses and uses requiring special land use permits shall be as provided in Table 4.1. In cases where a use is permitted but there are supplemental use regulations for that use specified in article 4, such regulations shall also apply and must be complied with.
( Ord. No. 15-06 , 8-25-2015)
Sec. 2.31.3. - Dimensional requirements.
Dimensional requirements for the M (Light Industrial) District shall be as provided in Table 2.24, "Non-Residential Zoning Districts Dimensional Requirements."
( Ord. No. 15-06 , 8-25-2015)
Sec. 2.31.4. - Site and building design standards.
Site and building design standards and regulations to be applied in this zoning district shall be as provided in article 5, site design and building form standards.
( Ord. No. 15-06 , 8-25-2015)
Sec. 2.31.5. - Multi-family use provisions for industrial conversion.
A.
The conversion of industrial buildings to residential use shall be permitted by a special land use permit. The following shall be considered:
1.
Whether the building is located on the interior or periphery of an established industrial park or area;
2.
Whether the building or area should no longer be used for industrial uses;
3.
Adequate parking is provided in accordance with article 6, for multi-family or live-work.
( Ord. No. 15-06 , 8-25-2015)
