ARTICLE I. - IN GENERAL

Sec. 16-1. - Operation of motorized vehicles on school property.
The operation of motorized vehicles of any nature in or on any yard, campus, playing field or open area of any public school, college or institution in the unincorporated area of the county, except on those areas designated by school authorities for use of motorized vehicles, is prohibited.
(Code 1976, § 10-1006)
Sec. 16-2. - Fortunetelling.
It shall be unlawful for any person to engage in or participate in the practice of fortunetelling, phrenology, clairvoyance, palmistry or other kindred practices, businesses or professions where a charge is made or a donation accepted for such services. This section does not apply to astrology.
(Code 1976, § 10-5002)
State Law reference— Authority to prohibit fortunetelling, O.C.G.A. § 36-1-15.
Sec. 16-3. - Selling, soliciting on public rights-of-way; exceptions.
(a)
It shall be unlawful to sell, offer for sale or solicit for sale any food or beverage for human consumption from any pushcart, bicycle cart, motorized cart or other type of motor vehicle on the public streets, sidewalks or in the public rights-of- way of unincorporated areas of the county unless specifically allowed as set forth in this section.
(b)
Pushcarts, bicycle carts, motorized carts or other type of motor vehicles are permitted to sell their products on the public streets, sidewalks or in the public rights-of-way of unincorporated areas of the county between the hours of noon and 8:00 p.m. only if they limit their inventory to the following categories: ice cream, popsicles, frozen desserts, candies, confections, chips, crackers, cookies, popcorn, pastries, and/or canned/bottled drinks for the purpose of retail sale. All items must be pre-packaged for sale. None of these vehicles may operate on the rights-of-way, streets, or sidewalks adjacent to any properties where "no solicitation" or similar signs are posted.
(c)
A license from the Georgia Department of Agriculture must be prominently displayed for view on each vehicle and available for inspection upon request by a county employee. Each vehicle shall contain a copy of the current valid business occupation tax certificate issued for the business (not for the vehicle itself) by DeKalb County, another jurisdiction in Georgia, or another state, and such business occupation tax certificate must also be prominently displayed for view on the vehicle and available for inspection upon request by a county employee.
(d)
All vehicles operating under this section shall comply with all applicable provisions of the Code and federal and state law, rules and regulations. Each vehicle must exhibit exterior signage showing it as a slow-moving vehicle. The placement, size and wording of such signage shall be determined by the police chief. No vehicle shall be allowed to remain stationary on any public street, sidewalk or right-of-way for longer than fifteen (15) minutes at a time. After the expiration of that time, the vehicle must move to a different location. Vehicles must be operated in a way that allows for unobstructed pedestrian and vehicular access to public streets, sidewalks and rights-of-way. No vehicle shall be operated within ten (10) feet of any fire hydrant, driveway, bus stop, subway entrance or exit, crosswalk, or intersection.
(Code 1976, § 10-5003 ; Ord. No. 12-11, Pt. I, 7-24-12 )
Editor's note— Ord. No. 12-11, Pt. I, adopted July 24, 2012 , changed the title of § 16-3 from "Selling, soliciting on public rights-of-way" to "Selling, soliciting on public rights-of-way; exceptions."
Sec. 16-4. - Single-family residential real estate signs.
(a)
Real estate signs on single-family residential properties shall be removed within ten (10) days of the signing of an agreement for the sale, rental or lease of the property advertised. In addition, the use of a "sold" attachment to these signs on single-family residential properties shall not be permitted except as provided in Acts 1975, p. 4533 [App. B, § 701].
(b)
This section shall be administered and enforced by designated employees of the public works department who may issue a citation requiring the appearance of any person violating its provisions before a court.
(Code 1976, § 10-5004)
Sec. 16-5. - Bird sanctuary designated; exceptions.
(a)
The entire portion of the unincorporated county lying between Interstate Highway 285 and the west boundary of the county and all that tract or parcel of land bounded on the north by Rainbow Drive, bounded on the east by Wesley Chapel Road, bounded on the south by Interstate Highway 285 are designated as a bird sanctuary. No person shall trap, hunt, shoot or attempt to shoot any bird or wildfowl, or rob or molest in any manner bird or wildfowl nests in this area.
(b)
If starlings, feral pigeons or other birds are found in such situations in a particular locality that they constitute a nuisance or a menace to health or property in the opinion of the board of commissioners, the board shall direct the corrective action necessary to reduce or eliminate the problem, to be taken by the proper department of county administration.
(c)
This action shall not restrict the activities of persons duly authorized by state or federal wildlife agencies to trap birds for banding, scientific or propagating purposes.
(Code 1976, § 10-6001)
Sec. 16-6. - Court of competent jurisdiction's express jurisdiction.
The jurisdiction of the DeKalb County Court of Competent Jurisdiction listed in 1959 Ga. Laws p. 3093, section 2 and section 31 is hereby affirmed. Said court of competent jurisdiction is hereby granted all the general powers heretofore or hereafter granted by any Act of the General Assembly of Georgia to any police or court of competent jurisdiction in this state, municipal or otherwise, including but not limited to exercising the same subject matter jurisdiction as the general assembly grants to municipal courts to adjudicate alleged violations of state law, except for offenses involving violations of O.C.G.A. § 40-6-391.
( Ord. No. 14-07 , Pt. I, 12-16-14; Memo. of 9-23-20)
Editor's note— At the request of the county, the title of § 16-6 has been changed from "Recorder's court's express jurisdiction" to read as herein set out.
Sec. 16-7. - Prosecution by the solicitor general of DeKalb County.
The solicitor general of DeKalb County shall be the prosecuting attorney of the court of competent jurisdiction and may assign other members of his or her staff to prosecute cases in said court of competent jurisdiction.
( Ord. No. 14-07 , Pt. I, 12-16-14; Memo. of 9-23-20)
Secs. 16-8—16-25. - Reserved.
