ARTICLE III. - DEKALB-PEACHTREE AIRPORT[2]
Footnotes:
--- (2) ---
State Law reference— Authority to acquire, construct, operate, etc., airports, O.C.G.A. § 6-3-20 et seq.

DIVISION 1. - GENERALLY

Sec. 6-36. - Definitions.
The following words, terms and phrases, when used in this article, shall have the meanings ascribed to them in this section, except where the context clearly indicates a different meaning:
Aircraft means any contrivance now known or hereafter invented, used or designed for navigation of or flight in the air, except a parachute or other contrivance used primarily as safety equipment.
Air operations area means any area of an airport used or intended to be used for landing, takeoff or surface maneuvering of aircraft, including but not limited to runways, taxiways, ramps and aprons.
Airport means the DeKalb-Peachtree Airport.
Control zone means that airspace of defined geographical dimensions defined by the F.A.A.
Lease means a written agreement between the county and a person which gives rise to a new or renewed relationship of landlord and tenant or lessor and lessee for property, real or personal, located at PDK Airport, whether such written agreement creates a leasehold interest by an assignment, extension, modification, amendment or conversion for a different purpose of an existing lease.
Rentals for commercial office and shop space, airplane tie-downs and Airport T-hangar space for aircraft parking shall not be considered as a "lease" for purposes of this chapter.
Red demarcation line means the red line between the aircraft movement area (that area which is on the runway side of the red line that is normally used by aircraft) and the loading/parking areas (that area on the hangar side of the line normally used by motor vehicles and pedestrians.)
(Code 1976, § 6-4002; Ord. No. 06-24, Pt. I, 11-28-06)
Cross reference— Definitions and rules of construction generally, § 1-2.
Sec. 6-37. - Scope.
This article applies to the airport.
Sec. 6-38. - Violation of article or rules and regulations.
(a)
Persons violating this article may be deprived of use of the airport. Any person operating or handling any aircraft, operating any vehicle, equipment or apparatus, or any person refusing to comply therewith, or is determined to be delinquent in payment for the use of airport facilities, or any person who knowingly or willfully violates this article or any rule or regulation in effect by the Federal Aviation Administration or the state may be promptly denied the use of the airport and its facilities, if it is determined that this denial is in the public interest, and for such length of time as may be determined by the county. Persons violating the rules and regulations shall be subject to the same penalties as for violation of a county ordinance.
(b)
No person shall violate any rules and regulations promulgated by the airport director.
(Code 1976, §§ 6-4033, 6-4080)
Sec. 6-39. - Disclaimer of liability by county.
The county assumes no responsibility for loss, injury or damage to persons or property by reason of fire, water, theft, vandalism, wind, flood, earthquake or collision damage, nor does it assume any liability for injury to persons while on the airport, while using the facilities or for property damage, nor does the county assume any responsibility or liability to persons, property or aircraft while taxiing, taking off or landing at or near the airport.
(Code 1976, § 6-4029)
Sec. 6-40. - Effect of emergency conditions.
Emergency conditions existing on the airport will not mitigate or cancel any existing regulations.
(Code 1976, § 6-4004)
Sec. 6-41. - Registration of aircraft.
The owners of all aircraft based on the airport using county tie-down areas and county T-hangars will register their aircraft with the county prior to beginning operation. Any change in the ownership will require a change in registration.
(Code 1976, § 6-4016)
Sec. 6-42. - Certain areas restricted.
No person shall enter upon the runways, taxiways or ramp areas, control tower, utility and service rooms or areas or other areas as may be designated "restricted," except:
(1)
Persons assigned to duty therein.
(2)
Persons authorized by the airport director.
(3)
Passengers, under appropriate supervision, entering the apron for the purpose of embarkation and debarkation.
(Code 1976, § 6-4003)
Sec. 6-43. - Red demarcation line.
No person or vehicle shall cross the red demarcation line without having two-way radio communication with the control tower and receiving prior approval by it.
(Code 1976, § 6-4017)
Sec. 6-44. - Minors.
Minors who have not yet attained the age of eighteen (18) must be accompanied by at least one (1) parent or one (1) adult whenever in buildings or any air operations area.
(Code 1976, § 6-4036)
Sec. 6-45. - Report of hazardous conditions.
Any person observing a condition or hazard that would jeopardize life, health, public safety or damage to property should report it to the airport director immediately.
(Code 1976, § 6-4021)
Sec. 6-46. - Accident reports.
(a)
All persons involved in any accident, personal or automotive, occurring on the airport, shall make a full report thereof to the county as soon after the accident as possible.
(b)
Persons involved in aircraft accidents occurring on the airport shall make a full written report thereof on available forms to the airport director as soon after an accident as possible, which report shall include their names and addresses.
(Code 1976, §§ 6-4022, 6-4023)
Sec. 6-47. - Damage to lights and fixtures.
Any person damaging any light or fixture shall report this damage to the airport director immediately and shall be fully responsible for any costs required to repair or replace the damaged property.
(Code 1976, § 6-4024)
Sec. 6-48. - Responsibility for damage to leased premises.
Tenants, lessees and grantees shall be fully responsible for all damages to buildings, equipment, real property and appurtenances in the ownership or custody of the county caused by negligence, abuse or carelessness on the part of their employees, agents, customers, visitors, suppliers or persons with whom they may do business.
(Code 1976, § 6-4025)
Sec. 6-49. - Structural and decorative changes to leased premises.
No tenants, lessees or grantees will be permitted to effect structural or decorative changes or additions of any type without prior permission of the airport director.
(Code 1976, § 6-4028)
Sec. 6-50. - Signs.
(a)
Except with the prior written approval of the county, a lessee shall not erect, maintain or display any signs or any advertising at or on the exterior parts of any building or structure, nor shall any freestanding signs of any nature be permitted on airport property without prior written approval.
(b)
Upon the expiration or termination of the lease, the lessee shall remove, obliterate or paint out, as the county may direct, all signs and advertising on the premises, and shall restore the affected portion of the premises to the same condition as at the commencement of the lease.
(Code 1976, § 6-4030)
Cross reference— Signs, Ch. 21.
Sec. 6-51. - Animals.
All pets shall be on a leash and shall not be allowed on the operational areas of the airport. Any domestic animal found to be roaming free on airport property will be subject to impoundment by the county.
(Code 1976, § 6-4031)
Cross reference— Animals, Ch. 5.
Sec. 6-52. - Smoking prohibited in certain areas.
No person shall smoke on the airport ramp, in any hangar or shop, service station area, gasoline storage area or in any building, room or place on the airport where smoking is specifically prohibited, or within one hundred (100) feet of any fueling or defueling operation.
(Code 1976, § 6-4026)
Sec. 6-53. - Fire extinguishers.
All tenants or lessees shall supply and maintain such adequate and readily accessible fire extinguishers as shall comply with the 1984 edition NFPA No. 10, Standard For Portable Fire Extinguishers, for the particular hazard involved.
(Code 1976, § 6-4027)
Sec. 6-54. - Firearms, explosives and inflammable materials.
No person shall carry any firearm, explosive or inflammable material on the airport in any other manner than that provided by law except by written permission of the airport director.
(Code 1976, § 6-4032)
Sec. 6-55. - Interfering or tampering with aircraft.
No person shall interfere or tamper with any aircraft, put in motion the engine of an aircraft or use any aircraft, aircraft parts, instruments or tools without permission of the owner or by specific direction of the airport director.
(Code 1976, § 6-4034)
Sec. 6-56. - Kite flying.
Kite flying is prohibited within five thousand (5,000) feet of the nearest point of any runway.
(Code 1976, § 6-4035)
Secs. 6-57—6-70. - Reserved.
DIVISION 2. - FLIGHT OPERATIONS

Sec. 6-71. - Generally.
(a)
All aeronautical activities at the airport and all flying of aircraft departing from or arriving in the airspace above the airport shall be conducted in conformity with the current pertinent provisions of the Federal Aviation Administration and orders issued by the county.
(b)
The procedures set out in this division will apply in every case, except when instructed otherwise by the control tower.
(Code 1976, §§ 6-4051, 6-4079)
Sec. 6-72. - Operation under influence of liquor or drugs.
No person under the influence of liquor or narcotic drugs shall operate an aircraft on the airport.
(Code 1976, § 6-4011)
Sec. 6-73. - Operation in reckless manner.
No aircraft shall be operated in a careless or reckless manner or taxied except at a safe and reasonable speed.
(Code 1976, § 6-4063)
Sec. 6-74. - Aircraft certification required.
No person shall operate from the airport any aircraft that is not fully certified by the Federal Aviation Administration and registered with the Federal Aviation Administration and carrying a current certificate of airworthiness.
(Code 1976, § 6-4052)
Sec. 6-75. - Radios required.
All aircraft based on or operating into or out of the airport must be equipped with a two-way radio in operating condition.
(Code 1976, § 6-4060)
Sec. 6-76. - Landing, taxiing or taking off without radio contact.
Pilots of aircraft shall not land, taxi or take off without a clearance from the control tower by radio or light signal during the hours of operation of the control tower.
(Code 1976, § 6-4058)
Sec. 6-77. - Transient aircraft without radios.
Transient aircraft at the airport without a radio receiver will obtain, in person or by telephone, general instructions from the control tower prior to taxiing out for takeoff.
(Code 1976, § 6-4061)
Sec. 6-78. - Starting engines.
No person shall start or run any engine in any aircraft unless a competent person is in the aircraft attending the engine controls. Blocks shall always be placed in front of the wheels before starting the engine unless the aircraft is provided with adequate parking brakes.
(Code 1976, § 6-4053)
Sec. 6-79. - Engine warm-ups or tests.
Aircraft at the airport shall not perform warmup or engine test operations in any area that would result in a hazard to other aircraft, persons or property.
(Code 1976, § 6-4054)
Sec. 6-80. - Miscellaneous engine rules.
No person shall run the engine of any aircraft at any location on the airport in such manner as to cause damage to other aircraft or property or in such manner as to blow paper, dirt or other materials across taxiways or runways so as to endanger the safety of operations on the airport.
(Code 1976, § 6-4055)
Sec. 6-81. - Aircraft equipment rules.
No aircraft shall be operated on the airport unless it is equipped with tail or nose wheel and wheel brakes, except with the permission of the control tower operator. When any pilot of an aircraft that is not equipped with adequate brakes receives permission from the control tower operator to taxi the aircraft, the pilot shall not taxi the aircraft near buildings or parked aircraft unless an attendant is at the wing of the aircraft to assist the pilot; provided, that an aircraft with wings and tail higher than five (5) feet from the ground that does not have adequate brakes shall not be taxied on the airport, with or without the control tower operator's permission, but shall be towed if it is necessary to move the aircraft.
(Code 1976, § 6-4058)
Sec. 6-82. - Experimental flights and ground demonstrations.
No experimental flight or ground demonstrations shall be conducted on the airport without the approval of the airport director.
(Code 1976, § 6-4056)
Sec. 6-83. - Taxiing.
(a)
No person shall taxi an aircraft until ascertaining that there is no danger of collision with any person or object in the immediate area by visual inspection of the area.
(b)
Pilots shall not taxi onto or across a runway until specifically cleared to do so by a radio or visual signal.
(c)
Aircraft shall be taxied in accordance with the prescribed taxiing patterns when any particular runway is in use.
(d)
Aircraft will request taxi instructions from the control tower prior to departing the parking area.
(Code 1976, §§ 6-4062, 6-4064, 6-4065, 6-4078)
Sec. 6-84. - Landings and takeoffs generally.
(a)
Fixed-wing aircraft will land and take off on runways only as instructed by the control tower. All aircraft must have a two-way radio capable of communicating with the control tower.
(b)
Procedures to be used when landing and taking off are as follows:
(1)
Landing aircraft shall maintain traffic pattern altitude until turning onto base leg prior to commencing final approach.
(2)
Departing aircraft shall climb out straight ahead using such techniques as are appropriate to reach an altitude of five hundred (500) feet before making a turn to depart the traffic pattern.
(Code 1976, §§ 6-4066, 6-4069)
Sec. 6-85. - Landings and takeoffs over populated areas.
In all cases takeoffs and landings over populated areas shall be kept at a minimum in the interest of public safety and convenience. All aircraft shall climb out as quickly as possible within the safe operating limitations for the aircraft in order to minimize noise disturbance.
(Code 1976, § 6-4074)
Sec. 6-86. - Runway intersection departures.
Departures from runway intersections for all twin engine aircraft are prohibited, except for certified S.T.O.L. aircraft.
(Code 1976, § 6-4067)
Sec. 6-87. - Flight patterns.
(a)
All flight patterns for the airport shall be established by the airport director. The board of commissioners, as well as other interested parties, will be notified as changes are made in same.
(b)
Roto-craft shall conform to the same traffic pattern as prescribed for single-engine aircraft in subsection (a) of this section unless otherwise instructed by the control tower.
(Code 1976, §§ 6-4068, 6-4075)
Sec. 6-88. - Calm wind runway.
Whenever the wind velocity is less than five (5) knots per hour, aircraft shall ordinarily use the calm wind runway 20L, unless otherwise instructed by the control tower.
(Code 1976, § 6-4070)
Sec. 6-89. - Simulated forced landings.
Simulated forced landings are prohibited within the airport control zone without prior approval from the control tower.
(Code 1976, § 6-4071)
Sec. 6-90. - Angle of entering traffic pattern.
Unless otherwise instructed by the control tower, aircraft will enter the traffic pattern on downwind leg at an angle of forty-five (45) degrees.
(Code 1976, § 6-4072)
Sec. 6-91. - Minimum altitude for flying over airport.
No aircraft will fly directly over the airport, unless landing or taking off, at an altitude of less than three thousand (3,000) feet MSL.
(Code 1976, § 6-4073)
Sec. 6-92. - Area of operation of roto-craft.
Roto-craft will not be operated within two hundred (200) feet of any area where light aircraft are parked or operating, which may cause damage to the aircraft or personal bodily injury.
(Code 1976, § 6-4076)
Sec. 6-93. - Dirigibles, blimps, gliders, etc.
Prior authorization is required before airships, dirigibles, blimps, gliders, free balloons, motorless aircraft or aircraft with a total gross weight in excess of seventy-five thousand (75,000) pounds land or take off at the airport.
(Code 1976, § 6-4077)
Sec. 6-94. - Parking of aircraft.
No person shall park aircraft in any area on the airport other than that prescribed by the county.
(Code 1976, § 6-4057)
Secs. 6-95—6-103. - Reserved.
DIVISION 3. - REPAIRING AND SERVICING AIRCRAFT

Sec. 6-104. - Removal of disabled aircraft.
(a)
All disabled aircraft and parts thereof on the airport shall be promptly removed from the air operations areas by the owners. Unairworthy aircraft, wrecks, "junkers" or parts thereof shall not be parked or stored anywhere on the airport or leased sites except in a hangar unless awaiting bona fide scheduled repairs or unless express authority is granted by the county.
(b)
If any person refuses to move an aircraft as directed by the county, the aircraft may be towed away by the county at the owner's or operator's expense, and without liability for damage which may result in the course of or after this moving. This subsection shall apply to removal of a wrecked or damaged aircraft and its parts.
(Code 1976, §§ 6-4101, 6-4102)
Sec. 6-105. - Repair station certificate.
Unless otherwise permitted by operating agreement, any person desiring to conduct maintenance service for the repair of aircraft engines, airframes, propellers, instruments, accessories or radios for hire, shall comply with the regulations established in Federal Aviation Regulation, part 145, and shall hold a suitable valid "repair station certificate" issued by the administrator of the Federal Aviation Administration authorizing the repair service.
(Code 1976, § 6-4105)
Sec. 6-106. - Compliance with department of fire and rescue services regulations.
All regulations and recommendations of the department of fire and rescue services shall be adhered to with regard to all aspects of fueling and handling of inflammables.
(Code 1976, § 6-4110; Ord. No. 11-02, Pt. I, § 2, 11-27-01)
Cross reference— Fire prevention and protection, Ch. 12.
Sec. 6-107. - Where repairs to be effected.
(a)
No person shall repair an aircraft, aircraft engine, propeller, or apparatus in any area of the airport other than that specifically designated for this purpose by the county, except that minor adjustments may be done while the aircraft is on a loading ramp preparatory to take off when this adjustment is necessary to prevent a delayed departure.
(b)
No person shall clean or make any repairs to motor vehicles anywhere on the airport other than in designated shop areas, except those minor repairs necessary to remove a motor vehicle from the airport; nor shall any person move, interfere or tamper with any motor vehicle, or put in motion the engine, or take or use any motor vehicle part, instrument or tool thereof, without the permission of the owner or satisfactory evidence of the right to do so duly presented to the county.
(Code 1976, §§ 6-4008, 6-4103)
Sec. 6-108. - Discriminatory prices.
No person shall engage in any aeronautical activity for furnishing services to the public at the airport unless fair, reasonable and not unjustly discriminatory prices are charged for each unit or service; provided that reasonable and nondiscriminatory discounts, rebates or other similar types of price reductions may be made to volume purchasers.
(Code 1976, § 6-4104)
Sec. 6-109. - Gasoline trucks generally.
When backing gasoline trucks, a signal person shall be available to guide the driver. The driver shall remain in the vehicle cab and shall not stand on the running board or fender while backing. Gasoline trucks will at no time be blocked or so positioned as to prevent a rapid removal of the truck.
(Code 1976, § 6-4106)
Sec. 6-110. - Fueling operations.
The following rules govern the fueling and defueling of aircraft:
(1)
No aircraft shall be fueled or defueled while the engine is running or being warmed by application of exterior heat, or while the aircraft is in a hangar or enclosed space.
(2)
No person shall smoke within one hundred (100) feet of an aircraft being fueled or refueled.
(3)
No person shall operate any radio transmitter or receiver, or switch electrical appliances off or on in an aircraft during fueling or defueling.
(4)
During refueling the aircraft and the fuel dispensing apparatus shall both be grounded to a point or points of zero electrical potential.
(5)
When filling a truck from storage, two (2) persons shall be in active attendance except that only one (1) person shall be required if a nonlocking valve is in use on the fill pipe and control for the valve must be continuously in the attendant's hand in order to maintain fuel flow.
(6)
No person shall use any material during fueling or defueling of aircraft which is likely to cause a spark or be a source of ignition.
(7)
Adequate fire extinguishers shall be within ready reach of all persons engaged in fueling or defueling aircraft.
(8)
No person shall start the engine of any aircraft where there is any gasoline on the ground under the aircraft.
(9)
Fueling hoses and equipment shall be maintained in a safe, sound and nonleaking condition and shall be approved by the National Fire Protection Association.
(10)
All hoses, funnels and appurtenances used in fueling and defueling operations shall be equipped with a grounding device to prevent ignition of volatile liquids.
(11)
All fueling and defueling of aircraft shall be conducted at least fifty (50) feet from any hangar or other building.
(12)
No aircraft shall be fueled or defueled while passengers are on board the aircraft unless a passenger loading ramp is in place at the cabin door of the aircraft, the aircraft door is in open position and a cabin attendant is present at or near the cabin door.
(13)
Persons engaged in the fueling and drainage of aircraft shall exercise care to prevent overflow of fuel. Persons responsible will take proper measures to remove volatile liquid when it is spilled during transfer.
(Code 1976, § 6-4107)
Sec. 6-111. - Storage of flammables.
Gasoline, oil and solvent drums or receptacles shall not be stored on apron and ramp areas in excess of amounts actually needed as current stock. Any material of this type that is kept in subject areas will be kept enclosed and covered in housing of a design and type as meets the approval of the county.
(Code 1976, § 6-4108)
Sec. 6-112. - Aircraft to be properly grounded in hangars.
No person shall park an aircraft in a hangar unless the aircraft is properly grounded.
(Code 1976, § 6-4109)
Sec. 6-113. - Liquid disposal.
No fuels, oils, dopes, paints, solvents or acids shall be disposed of or dumped in drains, basins or ditches on the airport.
(Code 1976, § 6-4111)
Sec. 6-114. - Open-flame operations.
No person shall conduct any open-flame operations in any hangar or on the airport unless specifically authorized by the county.
(Code 1976, § 6-4112)
Secs. 6-115—6-121. - Reserved.
DIVISION 4. - VEHICULAR TRAFFIC[3]

Footnotes:
--- (3) ---
Cross reference— Motor vehicles and traffic, Ch. 17.

Sec. 6-122. - State operator's license; motor vehicles to be registered.
(a)
No person shall operate motorized equipment of any kind on the airport unless possessed of a valid state operator's license.
(b)
No person shall operate any motor vehicle in the air operations area without having first registered it with the county.
(Code 1976, § 6-4005)
Sec. 6-123. - Off-road vehicles.
Motorcycles, dune buggies or other types of motorized vehicles consisting of two (2) wheels or more are prohibited on the airport except on designated streets and parking lots.
(Code 1976, § 6-4037)
Cross reference— Off-road vehicles, § 17-241 et seq.
Sec. 6-124. - Operating under the influence of liquor or drugs.
No person under the influence of liquor or narcotic drugs shall operate a motor vehicle on the airport.
(Code 1976, § 6-4011)
State Law reference— Drivers with ability impaired by alcohol, drugs, or toxic vapor, O.C.G.A. § 40-6-391.
Sec. 6-125. - Reckless driving prohibited; speed limits established.
No person shall operate a motor vehicle of any kind on the airport in a negligent manner or in excess of the speed limits prescribed by the county. Speed limits shall not exceed twenty-five (25) miles per hour in ramp, apron, aircraft parking and hangar areas.
(Code 1976, § 6-4007)
State Law reference— Reckless driving, O.C.G.A. § 40-6-390.
Sec. 6-126. - Right-of-way of pedestrians and aircraft; passing taxiing aircraft.
Pedestrians and aircraft shall at all times have a right-of-way over vehicular traffic. All vehicles shall pass to the rear of taxiing aircraft.
(Code 1976, § 6-4009)
Sec. 6-127. - Signals required; obedience to signs.
No person operating a motor vehicle on the airport shall fail to give proper signals, or fail to observe the directions of posted traffic signs.
(Code 1976, § 6-4010)
Sec. 6-128. - Overloading motor vehicle prohibited; riding outside motor vehicle prohibited.
No person shall operate any motor vehicle on the airport overloaded or carrying more passengers than that for which the vehicle was designed. No person shall ride on the running board, stand up in the body of a moving vehicle or ride on the outside of the body of a vehicle or with arms or legs protruding from the body of a motor vehicle.
(Code 1976, § 6-4012)
Sec. 6-129. - Unsafe vehicle prohibited.
No vehicle shall be operated on the airport if it is so constructed, equipped or loaded as to endanger persons or property.
(Code 1976, § 6-4013)
Sec. 6-130. - Special flags, lights, etc.
Vehicles operating in special and infrequent instances shall display an approved nine-square-foot flag, upon special permission of airport manager. Between the hours of sunset and sunrise these vehicles shall display an overhead red light which shall be visible from all directions and of sufficient brilliance to be seen under clear weather a distance of at least one (1) mile with the naked eye, plus normal operating headlights and taillights in addition to two (2) red reflectors on each side and on the rear. Nonmotor-propelled carts and trailers shall have two (2) amber reflectors on each side and two (2) front and two (2) rear. All reflectors shall be visible for at least five hundred (500) feet when opposed by normal vehicle headlights.
(Code 1976, § 6-4014)
Sec. 6-131. - Clearance by control tower to cross runways.
No vehicles that have been permitted to operate on the airport shall proceed closer than two hundred (200) feet from the edge of the runways nor across any of the runways prior to being cleared by the control tower. It is the responsibility of all vehicle operators to be conversant with the standard airport light signal regardless of whether the vehicle is radio-equipped.
(Code 1976, § 6-4015)
Sec. 6-132. - Parking.
(a)
The county may tow or otherwise move motor vehicles which are parked by their owners or operators on the airport in violation of the regulations of the airport, at the operator's expense and without liability for damage which may result in the course of moving.
(b)
No person shall park a motor vehicle, for loading, unloading or any other purpose, on the airport other than in the areas specifically established for parking and in the manner prescribed by signs, lines or other means. No person shall abandon any motor vehicle on the airport by leaving the vehicle unattended for thirty (30) consecutive days. No person shall park in a manner so as to obstruct roadways, nor in aircraft parking areas, nor on grassed areas.
(c)
When parking adjacent to a runway, all vehicles must park parallel to the runway and at least one hundred (100) feet to the outside of the runway lights.
(Code 1976, §§ 6-4018, 6-4020)
Cross reference— Stopping, standing and parking generally, § 17-131 et seq.
DIVISION 5. - LEASES

Sec. 6-133. - Authority to lease.
The Governing Authority of DeKalb County, Georgia has the authority to enter into leases and the renewal of leases of premises located at the airport.
(Ord. No. 06-24, Pt. I, 11-28-06)
Sec. 6-134. - Consistency with long-range master plan.
Airport property proposed to be leased shall be located in areas designated for the proposed uses according to the airport master. Airport property proposed to be leased shall be located in areas designated for the proposed uses according to the airport master and layout plans and the DeKalb County comprehensive land use plan (current edition) and shall not constrain the county's ability to achieve its long-range developmental plans.
(Ord. No. 06-24, Pt. I, 11-28-06)
Sec. 6-135. - Requirement for appraisal.
Prior to extending any lease covered by this article or amending the length of the term of any lease covered by this article, the airport director shall obtain one (1) professional airport-aviation related appraisal of the available leasehold interest in order to determine the current and future fair market value (FMV) to be placed on such leasehold. One (1) review appraisal shall be obtained to ensure the overall validity and methodology used in the actual appraisal.
(Ord. No. 06-24, Pt. I, 11-28-06)
Sec. 6-136. - Requirements for renewal of leases.
(a)
All requests for renewal of a lease by a lessee must be made at least three hundred sixty-five (365) calendar days prior to the expiration of the lease term or such requests shall not be considered by the county. The written request to extend the term of any lease must contain the details of the lessee's proposal for the extension and must address all of the factors set forth in this section. The county shall exercise good efforts to conclude negotiations for renewal of the subject lease no later than six (6) months before the expiration of the existing lease.
(b)
The written request may be hand delivered or mailed (U. S. first class, postage prepaid) to the airport director or designee. If a request for renewal or extension that complies with the requirements of this section is not received by the airport director in a reasonably timely manner, such as may result in the subject premises becoming vacant at the expiration of the existing lease term, the airport director shall then take any and all necessary action to seek competitive offers pursuant to a publicly advertised request for proposal process for rental of the subject premises at the expiration of the lease at issue.
(c)
A request for renewal of any lease shall be for no more than the shortest reasonable duration taking into account: (1) the operational needs and capital investment in leasehold improvements of the tenant; and (2) the ability of the county to manage capacity and long-term airport development. In no case shall the term of any lease exceed twenty (20) years, unless it is determined by the governing authority that substantial benefit would inure to the public.
(d)
A request for renewal shall, in part, include:
(1)
The legal names of all persons requesting renewal of the lease; and
(2)
The names of the members of the board of directors, chief executive officer, chief operating officer, the president, and executive vice-presidents, of any form of corporation, partnership, limited liability company, joint venture, or association requesting renewal of the lease; and
(3)
A copy of the articles of incorporation, corporate charter, and partnership or joint venture agreement of any form of corporation, partnership, limited liability company, joint venture, or association requesting renewal of the lease.
(e)
In the event a timely request for renewal is received by the airport director, the county, shall perform its due diligence in deciding whether to extend the current lease, and shall consider such factors as:
(1)
The history of the relationship with the lessee, including whether the lessee has violated any airport or county polices, rules, or regulations or has violated any environmental laws, rules or regulations, including but not limited to unreported fuel spills, unapproved washing or de-icing of aircraft;
(2)
Whether the lessee has in all material respects complied with the existing lease terms, including whether all lease payments have been made in a timely manner;
(3)
Whether the proposed rental payment meets or exceeds the appraised fair market value of the premises;
(4)
Whether the current lessee has agreed to accept lease provisions recommended by the airport director, including, but not limited to, a requirement to make capital improvements to the leasehold with such capital improvements reverting to the county at the expiration of the lease; escalating rental payments; payments for various fees; additional rental payments to the county in the form of a fixed percentage of gross revenue of tenant or gross rental revenue received by the tenant from approved sub-lessees;
(5)
Whether the overall proposal improves or adds value to the airport premises, and is consistent with the long-term vision of the governing authority;
(6)
Whether the overall proposal adds value or benefit to the communities surrounding the airport and DeKalb County;
(7)
The written recommendation of the airport advisory board;
(8)
The opinion and recommendation of the airport director; and
(9)
The appraisal required by section 6-134.
(Ord. No. 06-24, Pt. I, 11-28-06)
Sec. 6-137. - Airport investment.
Tenant investment actions in existing facilities, or in the construction of new facilities, will be shaped through this division and the long-range master plan or airport land use or any airport layout plans. Tenant investment shall be approved in advance by the governing authority; constructed in accordance with airport guidelines, applicable building codes and environmental standards and subject to ongoing oversight by the county. The county may condition its approval of tenant improvement requests in accordance with the provisions of this division.
Unless otherwise stated in a lease, title to improvements financed by tenants or third parties shall revert to the county at the expiration or termination of the lease or earlier as provided for in the lease agreement. The county may, at its option, negotiate in the lease the right to require that tenant demolish and remove such improvements and return the premises to their original condition, ordinary wear and tear excepted.
Except as provided in the lease agreement, tenants shall be responsible for maintaining the entire premises including existing structures, all facilities, and any improvements to the premises.
(Ord. No. 06-24, Pt. I, 11-28-06)
Sec. 6-138. - Encumbrances.
A tenant shall not mortgage, pledge, assign as collateral, encumber, or in any manner transfer, convey, or dispose of leased premises or improvements thereon or any interest therein for any purpose or intent without the prior written consent of the governing authority, which consent shall not be unreasonably withheld. The encumbrance of land is expressly prohibited under any circumstances.
(Ord. No. 06-24, Pt. I, 11-28-06)
Sec. 6-139. - Prohibited activities.
Airport land or improvements shall not be occupied or used for any activity that is contrary to the safe and efficient operation of the airport, including, but not limited to, any activity that jeopardizes the safety of the public, aircraft, or the property located at the airport, or any activity that is inconsistent with current Federal Aviation Administration grant certifications and assurances.
(Ord. No. 06-24, Pt. I, 11-28-06)
Sec. 6-140. - Compliance.
The airport director shall monitor compliance with lease provisions. The premises of each lease shall be subject to periodic physical inspection and audits conducted by the county finance department. The premise inspections and lease compliance audits should be conducted as appropriate with reasonable advance notification.
(Ord. No. 06-24, Pt. I, 11-28-06)
Sec. 6-141. - Consideration of proposal by airport advisory board.
All requests for extensions of leases shall be presented to the airport advisory board by the airport director for consideration and evaluation within a reasonable time of receipt. After due consideration of any proposal and request for extension of a lease and within a reasonable time of its first presentation to the airport advisory board, the airport advisory board shall provide the airport director with its written recommendation. The airport director shall then consider the airport advisory board's recommendation and shall forward his/her own written recommendation to the chief executive officer along with the recommendation of the airport advisory board within a reasonable time of receipt of the request to extend the term of the lease. If the airport director does not receive a timely written recommendation from the airport advisory board, the airport director shall nonetheless forward his/her own recommendation to the chief executive officer as required by this section.
(Ord. No. 06-24, Pt. I, 11-28-06)
Sec. 6-142. - Final award.
Once placed upon the agenda, the board of commissioners shall have the authority to award such leases in accordance with the factors in section 6-135, or such other factors as the board of commissioners shall deem necessary. After consideration of the agenda item, the board of commissioners also has the discretion to take any necessary action to seek competitive offers pursuant to a publicly advertised request for proposal process for rental of the subject premises at the expiration of the lease at issue.
(Ord. No. 06-24, Pt. I, 11-28-06)
Sec. 6-143. - Exemption from 365-day requirement.
If at the time of the effective date of this division any affected person desires an extension of a lease covered by this article and cannot meet the 365-day requirement of section 6-135(a), then such person shall within sixty (60) business days of approval of this article by the chief executive officer, give written notice of intent of his request to comply with the provisions of this division to the airport director who is then authorized to consider such request in accordance with the remaining requirements set forth in sections 6-136(c), (d), and (e), (1)—(6) of this division.
(Ord. No. 06-24, Pt. I, 11-28-06)
Secs. 6-144—6-200. - Reserved.
