ARTICLE VI. - PROMOTION, TRANSFER AND DEMOTION

Sec. 20-121. - Procedures generally.
The chief executive shall adopt administrative procedures for the filling of a vacancy by selection on a competitive basis of a permanent employee, and for transfers and demotions. Selection shall be made by the department head and reported to the director who will notify the applicant.
(Code 1976, § 2-3101)
Sec. 20-122. - Promotion.
No employee shall be promoted unless such employee has permanent status and the employee's last recorded performance appraisal is average or above. Although not eligible to qualify for a promotional position which is to be filled from present county employees only, a probation employee is eligible to apply for any county position which is being filled by open competitive examination. A probation period is required for an employee who is promoted.
(Code 1976, § 2-3102)
Sec. 20-123. - Transfer—Generally.
A vacancy may be filled by the transfer of a permanent or probation employee from another position of the same class or a comparable class subject to the limitations of this chapter.
(Code 1976, § 2-3103)
Sec. 20-124. - Same—From position of same class.
A permanent or probation employee in a position may be transferred to any vacancy of the same class. Where the employee has been placed in a position through a procedure involving selective certification, the employee shall not be transferred to any other position for which selective certification on the same basis is not justified until the employee has completed the probation period or the employee's name on the register has been reached through regular certification.
(Code 1976, § 2-3104)
Sec. 20-125. - Same—From comparable class.
A permanent or probation employee may be transferred to a comparable class if the director has certified that the minimum qualifications or training/education and experience specified for the class of the vacancy are met. If a performance test is required for regular appointment to the vacant position, and the employee to be transferred has not passed the required performance test for the class, then the employee must be certified on a test similar to and as extensive as the regular performance test.
(Code 1976, § 2-3105)
Sec. 20-126. - Demotion—Generally.
An employee who is demoted shall retain the same employment status, except that the employee's rate of pay shall be reduced to the step in the pay range assigned to the lower position that is at least the equivalent of one (1) step in the pay plan. If the demotion is nondisciplinary, and if the employee's present salary does not exceed the maximum of the new range, the director may, upon recommendation of the department head, approve a pay step equal to the employee's former salary.
(Code 1976, § 2-3106)
Sec. 20-127. - Same—Procedure; reasons.
A permanent or probation employee may be demoted to a lower class for which the employee meets the requirements for reasons relative to job performance. When an initial appointment probation employee is demoted, the employee shall continue the probation period as if the original appointment had been to the position of the lower class. A permanent or probation employee may request appointment to a lower class, and the department head may make the demotion subject to the limitations applicable to transfers. A department head may demote a permanent or probation employee when a shortage of work or funds, the abolition of a position, or other material change in duties or organization necessitates the action.
(Code 1976, § 2-3107)
Secs. 20-128—20-140. - Reserved.
