ARTICLE IX-B. - ENTREPRENEURIAL CONTRACTS[14]

Footnotes:
--- (14) ---
Editor's note— Ord. No. 11-09, Pt. I, adopted July 127, 2011, added a new Art. IX to Ch. 2. Inasmuch as Arts. IX and IX-A already existed, the new material has been redesignated as Art. IX-B at the county's instruction.

Sec. 2-400. - Entrepreneurial contracts.
(a)
Definitions. "Entrepreneurial contracts" shall mean any contract entered into by DeKalb County with a third party whereby DeKalb County is selling its property in the form of raw materials or byproducts to a third party in exchange for monetary compensation. The term "entrepreneurial contracts" does not include intergovernmental agreements between the county and other public entities authorized by article IX, section 3, paragraph 1 of the Georgia Constitution; county contracts or purchase orders regulated by section 18 of the Organizational Act of DeKalb County, Georgia; contracts executed by elected county officers; or county contracts or purchase orders regulated by state law or federal law, including but not limited to public works construction contracts as that term is defined in state law.
(b)
Process. The director of purchasing and contracting will utilize a procurement method appropriate to the particular property proposed to be sold. The director of purchasing and contracting will draft a scope consistent with the procurement method. Prior to execution of any entrepreneurial contract, the chief executive officer shall implement a public notice and competitive process to ensure all interested third parties have an opportunity to be considered for that entrepreneurial contract with the county, and shall provide notice to the board of commissioners when such public notice and competitive process is to commence. Public notice of an entrepreneurial contract opportunity need not be placed in the county's legal organ; it may be placed on the county's web-site, other internet advertising opportunities, or with other publications.
(Ord. No. 11-09, Pt. I, 7-12-11)
Secs. 2-401—2-419. - Reserved.
