ARTICLE V. - GENERAL PROVISIONS

Sec. 51. - One Principal Building Per Lot.
Within residential zoning districts, excepting group developments as provided for in Section 114, no more than one principal building with its customary accessory buildings may occupy, or be constructed upon, any lot.
Sec. 52. - Reduction in Lot Area.
No lot may be reduced in area below the minimum lot area as specified herein for the zoning district within which said lot is located.
Sec. 53. - Yard Requirements of Accessory Buildings.
The minimum yard requirements of this Ordinance also apply to accessory buildings. However, accessory buildings may be located within rear yards to within 10 feet of a rear or side lot line.
Sec. 54. - Attachment of Accessory Buildings to Principal Buildings.
When an accessory building is attached to the principal building by a breezeway, passageway, or similar means, it shall comply with the yard requirements of the principal building to which it is attached.
Sec. 55. - Distance Between Buildings.
Except as herein provided, no accessory building shall be located closer than 10 feet to a principal building or to any other building.
Sec. 56. - Frontage on Corner Lots and Double Frontage Lots.
On lots having frontage on more than one street, the minimum front yard shall be provided for each street in accordance with the provisions of this Ordinance.
Sec. 57. - Street Access.
No building shall hereafter be constructed on a lot which does not have access on a publicly dedicated and maintained street.
Sec. 58. - Corner Visibility Clearance.
No fence, structure, sign, planting, or other obstruction above a height of three and one-half feet shall be maintained within twenty feet of the intersection of the right-of-way lines of two streets or railroads, or of a street intersection with a railroad right-of-way.
Sec. 59. - Fences and Walls.
No Fence or free-standing wall, other than a retaining wall, shall be more than eight feet in height in a residential district.
Sec. 510. - Construction of Temporary Buildings.
Temporary buildings used in conjunction with construction work only may be permitted in any district but shall be removed immediately upon completion of the construction. In no event shall such temporary buildings be permitted for more than six (6) months without the specific approval of the City Council.
Sec. 511. - Buildings Under Construction.
Nothing in this ordinance shall require any change in the plan, construction, or intended use of a building which is under construction at the effective date of this Ordinance and the construction of which is diligently pursued until its completion.
Sec. 512. - Projections in Yards.
1.
Every part of a required yard shall be open to the sky and unobstructed, except for the ordinary projections of sills, belt courses, cornices, eaves, chimneys, stops, buttresses, and other ornamental and architectural features, provided that such features do not project more than three feet into any required yard, except that accessory buildings may project into yards provided no accessory building may be closer that ten feet to a lot line.
2.
An open, unroofed porch or paved terrace may project into a required front or rear yard for a distance not to exceed ten feet and into a side yard to a point not closer than ten feet from any side line.
Sec. 513. - Minimum Floor Area for Dwellings.
No dwelling, conventional or manufactured, hereafter constructed within the City of Bowdon shall have a total floor area, as defined herein, of less than 1050 square feet for each portion of the dwelling designed to be occupied by a family. Each dwelling shall be placed upon a permanent masonry foundation and meet all building codes of the City of Bowdon.
Sec. 514. - Application for Rezoning.
Properties that have been denied rezoning in the City of Bowdon by said Mayor and Council shall not be reconsidered for rezoning until a period of 12 months has passed from the initial denial of rezoning.
Sec. 515. - Uses not Listed.
The Planning Commission may approve an unlisted use in a zoning district, only where the unlisted use is similar in type and nature to a listed use in that district.
Sec. 516. - Home Occupations, Limitations.
1.
One (1) non-illuminated sign, not exceeding two (2) square feet in area, may be attached to a building; No other display shall be used.
2.
No internal or external alterations inconsistent with the residential use of the building shall be permitted.
3.
Nursing or convalescent homes, child care center, boarding houses, massage studios, restaurants, or similar establishments shall not be considered home occupations.
4.
No mechanical equipment shall be used for a home occupation, except that which is normally used for domestic or agricultural purposes.
5.
No group instruction, assembly, or activity in conjunction with a home occupation will be permitted.
6.
Not more than twenty-five percent (25%) of the total floor area of any dwelling is to be used for such home occupation.
7.
No accessory buildings or structures that are income producing shall be located closer than twenty (20) feet to any property line.
Sec. 517. - Property divided by a Zoning District
Where a Zoning District boundary divides a lot, tract, or parcel of land at the time such District boundary is established, the use classification of the less-restricted District may be extended to the property line, but shall not be extended more than a distance of one hundred feet (100').
