ARTICLE X. - NONCONFORMING USES
In order to avoid individual hardship whenever reasonable and not in conflict with general welfare of the City of Bowdon and for purposes herein outlined, the following provisions apply to all zoning districts.

Sec. 101. - Continuance.
The lawful use of any building or lot existing at the time of the enactment of this Ordinance may be continued, except as hereafter provided, although such use does not conform to the provisions of this Ordinance.
Sec. 102. - Unsafe or Unsanitary Building.
Any building or portion thereof declared unsafe or unsanitary by a proper authority may be restored to a safe or sanitary condition.
Sec. 103. - Restoration.
No building damaged by fire or other causes to the extent of more than 50 percent of its fair market value shall be repaired or rebuilt except in conformity with the regulations of this Ordinance.
Sec. 104. - Abandonment.
Whenever a nonconforming use has been discontinued for a period of one year, such use shall not thereafter be reestablished, and any future use shall be in conformity of this Ordinance.
Sec. 105. - Change to Another Nonconforming Use Not Allowed.
No nonconforming use may be changed to another nonconforming use.
Sec. 106. - Changes [to conforming use].
Once changed to a conforming use, no building or land shall be permitted to revert to a nonconforming use.
Sec. 107. - Enlargement.
No conforming use shall be enlarged or extended in any way.
Sec. 108. - Discontinuance of Nonconforming Uses of Land.
Nonconforming uses of land shall be discontinued within three years from the date this Ordinance becomes effective, or within three years from the date the use becomes nonconforming, whichever is later, in the following situations;
1.
Where no buildings are used in connection with the principal use;
2.
Where the only buildings used are accessory or incidental to the principal use;
3.
Where the use is maintained in connection with a building originally constructed for a conforming use;
4.
Outdoor advertising signs;
5.
Movable signs and any free-standing signs closer than ten feet to any street right-of-way and signs attached to trees or utility poles.
