ARTICLE VI. - ESTABLISHMENT OF ZONING DISTRICTS

Sec. 61. - Zoning Districts.
For the purpose of this Ordinance the City of Bowdon, Georgia, is divided into the following zoning districts:
R-1
Residential.
R1-30
Single-Family Residential District with minimum thirty-two thousand six-hundred seventy (32,670) square foot lots.
R1-20
Single-Family Residential District with minimum twenty thousand (20,000) square foot lots.
R1-15
Single-Family Residential District with minimum fifteen thousand (15, 000) square foot lots.
R1-12
Single-Family Residential District with minimum twelve thousand (12,000) square foot lots.
R1-10
Single-Family Residential District with minimum ten thousand (10,000) square foot lots.
R-2
Residential - Medium Density.
R-3
Residential - Medium to High Density.
R-4
Residential - High Density - Multi Family Complexes.
M-H-P
Mobile Home Parks.
C-1
Local Commercial.
C-2
General Commercial.
M
Industrial.
Sec. 62. - Zoning District Boundaries
The boundaries of each zoning district are hereby established as shown on a map entitled "Zoning Districts Map of the City of Bowdon, Georgia," adopted by the City Council and certified by the City Clerk. Said map and all explanatory matter thereon accompanies and is hereby made a part of this Ordinance and shall be on file in the City Hall.
Editor's note— The map is not included herein, but is on file as above indicated.
Sec. 63. - Rules for Determining Boundaries of Zoning Districts.
Where uncertainty exists with respect to the exact location of the boundary of any zoning district shown on the Zoning Map the following rules shall apply:
1.
Where a boundary is indicated as approximately following the center line of a street, or a railroad, or a drainage course, such center line shall be construed to be the boundary.
2.
Where a boundary is indicated as approximately following a lot line, such lot line shall be construed to be the boundary.
3.
Where a location of a boundary is not otherwise indicated as specified above, or dimensioned on the Zoning Map, said boundary shall be located by use of the scale of the Zoning Map.
4.
Where a public road, street, or alley is officially vacated or abandoned, the zoning regulations applicable to the property to which it is reverted shall apply to such vacated or abandoned road, street, or alley.
Sec. 64. - Restrictions upon Land, Buildings, and Structures.
Except as hereinafter provided:
1.
Use. No Building or land shall be used or occupied, and no structure or part thereof moved or altered, except in conformity with this Ordinance, as amended.
2.
Percentage of Lot Occupancy. No structure shall be erected, moved, or altered, nor shall any open space surrounding any structure be encroached upon or reduced in any manner, except in conformity with requirements stated herein.
3.
Density of Dwelling units. No building or structure shall be erected or altered, nor property occupied or used, so as to exceed the density of dwelling units allowed under the requirements of this Ordinance.
4.
Yard Use Limitation. Each building or structure shall have its own yard, or surrounding open space that meets the appropriate district requirements, these yard requirements may not be shared between dwellings.
5.
Screening. A solid evergreen buffer strip, a defined herein, or fence up to eight feet (8') in height, may be required by the Zoning Administrator or Planning Commission to lessen noise, bright lights, or to secure privacy when a commercial or industrial establishment locates in close proximity to existing residences.
