ARTICLE IV. - R-1 SINGLE-FAMILY RESIDENTIAL DISTRICT

Sec. 4.01. - Statement of purpose.
The R-1 district is composed of certain areas having a single-family residential character and undeveloped land where it is desirable and likely that similar development will occur. This district will be characterized by medium density residential development. The specific purpose of this district is to:
(1)
Encourage the construction and continued use of the land for single-family dwellings;
(2)
Prohibit business, commercial or industrial use of the land, and to prohibit any other use which would substantially interfere with development or maintenance of single-family dwellings in the district;
(3)
Encourage the discontinuance of existing uses that would not be permitted as new uses under the provisions of these regulations;
(4)
Discourage any land use that would generate traffic on minor or local streets, other than normal traffic to serve residences on those streets;
(5)
Discourage any use which, because of its size or character would create requirements and costs for public services such as fire and police protection, water supply and sewerage substantially in excess of such requirements and costs if the district were developed solely for residential purposes.
Sec. 4.02. - Permitted uses.
Permitted uses in the R-1 district are as follows:
(a)
Single-family, detached dwellings, except for manufactured or mobile homes.
(b)
Zero lot-line housing if shown on an approved subdivision plat.
(c)
Accessory buildings or uses customarily incidental to any of the permitted uses, when located on the same lot as the primary dwelling and not involving any business, profession, trade or occupation, provided that all accessory buildings shall conform and be located as required in section 3.10 of this ordinance.
(d)
Places of worship.
(e)
Home occupations.
(f)
Gardens.
Sec. 4.03. - Conditional uses.
Conditional uses in the R-1 district are as follows:
(a)
Public cemeteries, provided that a complete site development sketch is submitted with the application. The proposed site must be at least five acres and have an adequate buffer.
(b)
Nursery schools, kindergartens or day care facilities provided that all state licensing requirements are met.
(c)
Social or fraternal clubs, lodges, union halls and other similar uses.
(d)
Bed and breakfast inn.
(e)
Temporary emergency construction and repair residences.
(f)
Group homes.
(g)
Halfway houses.
(h)
The keeping of horses for home use and enjoyment; provided that the lot is not less than five acres total and only three such animals shall be permitted for each 50,000 square feet of land area not to include the front or side yard of the principal dwelling and all horses shall be adequately fenced within the property and maintained 25 feet from all property lines in the rear yard.
(1)
The keeping, breeding or training of any animals for monetary gain or profit shall be deemed a commercial business and is expressly prohibited in all residential districts except where such operations may qualify as a nonconforming use as defined in this ordinance.
(2)
No keeping of horses shall become a nuisance as defined in the city nuisance ordinance.
(3)
No horses shall be kept on a lot in this zoning district when there is no principal dwelling on the lot.
Sec. 4.04. - Area, height, bulk and placement requirements.
Area, height, bulk and placement requirements in the R-1 district are as follows:
EXPAND
Dwelling units per acre of developable land
Well and septic 1 per every 2 acres
Water and septic 1 per every 1 acre
Water and sewer 1/3 acre minimum**
Minimum lot width at setback
Well and septic 150'
Water and septic 100'
Water and sewer 80'
Minimum front building setback
Front 35'
Side and rear 10'
Maximum lot coverage 40%
Maximum building height 32' or 3 stories, whichever is less
  * Each lot shall have, at a minimum, a 30-foot-wide access to a public road.
** Refers to minimum lot size versus dwelling units per acre
(1)
Lot length shall not be more than four times the lot width.
(2)
This height limitation shall not apply to grain elevators, silos, windmills, elevator legs, cooling towers, water towers, chimneys and smokestacks, or spires on places of worship.
(3)
With the exception of well and septic tank developments, all new roads in this district shall be curb and gutter roads as specified in the land development regulations.
(4)
All new roads in this district shall directly connect to existing, paved, public roads.
(5)
All final lot sizes shall be approved by the county health department.
