ARTICLE II. - ESTABLISHMENT OF ZONING DISTRICTS

Sec. 2.01. - Districts.
The incorporated portions of the city are hereby divided into ten classes of districts known as the following:
EXPAND
AG-1 Active Agricultural
R-1 Single-Family Residential
R-2 Multi-Family Residential
R-3 Mixed Use, Single-Family Residential
C-1 Neighborhood Commercial
C-2 General Commercial
C-3 Commercial Recreation
C-4 Transitional Office
I-1 Light Industrial
MHP Manufactured Home Park
  Sec. 2.02. - District boundaries and official zoning maps.
The boundaries of the above districts are shown on the set of maps designated "Official Zoning Maps, Leesburg, Georgia." These official zoning maps, together with all explanatory matter thereon, are hereby adopted and incorporated herein by this reference and hereby made a part of this zoning ordinance. The official zoning maps shall be identified by the signature of the mayor or city clerk and shall be labeled "Official Zoning Maps, Leesburg, Georgia." Where uncertainty exists with respect to the boundaries of any of the aforesaid districts as shown on the official zoning maps, the following rules shall apply:
(1)
Where zoning district boundaries are indicated as approximately following the centerlines of roads or highways or railroad right-of-way lines extended, such centerlines or railroad right-of-way lines or such lines extended, shall be construed to be such boundaries.
(2)
Where district boundaries are indicated as approximately following the county line, or the corporate limits line of any incorporated place or the militia district line of any militia district, or the land lot line of any land lot; such county line, corporate limits line, militia district line or land lot shall be construed to be such boundaries.
(3)
Where district boundaries are indicated as approximately parallel to the centerlines of streets or highways, such district boundaries unless otherwise specifically indicated, shall be construed as being parallel thereto, and each above district boundary shall be shown at scale on the official zoning map of the city.
(4)
Where district boundaries are indicated as approximately following the centerline of streambeds or riverbeds, such centerlines or such lines extended shall be construed to be such boundaries.
Sec. 2.03. - District boundary lines dividing a lot.
In the event that a district boundary line on the zoning map divides a lot of record held in one ownership on the date of passage of the zoning ordinance, each part of the lot so divided shall be used in conformity with the regulations established by this ordinance for the district in which each such parcel is located. Except, that if one zoning district comprises more than 75 percent of said lot area, a use allowed in the district of majority may be extended to the existing property lines beyond the district boundary line in accordance with setbacks and yard requirements of the district into which the use is encroaching, with the administrative approval of the planning director.
