ARTICLE VII. - MHP MANUFACTURED HOME PARK DISTRICT

Sec. 7.01. - Statement of purpose.
The MHP district is for areas suitable for manufactured home or recreational vehicle parks. For good accessibility, this district shall be located adjacent to arterial and/or collector roads as described in the land development regulations. All new developments and roads in the development shall directly connect to existing, paved, public roads. Public water and sewer shall be required. The minimum development size for this district shall be five acres. In promoting the general purpose of these regulations, the specific intent of this district is:
(1)
To require adequate space and facilities for healthful living conditions for occupants of such manufactured home parks.
(2)
To require all such districts to have access to a major arterial public road for easy accessibility.
(3)
To ensure suitable water and sewer facilities are provided according to health regulations and state statutes and the city council.
(4)
To encourage the development of manufactured home parks for long term residential use rather than transient travel trailer use.
Sec. 7.02. - Permitted uses.
Permitted uses in the MHP district are as follows:
(a)
Manufactured home parks.
(b)
Recreational vehicle parks.
(c)
Accessory buildings or uses customarily incidental to any of the permitted uses, when located on the same lot and not involving any business, profession, trade or occupation, provided that all accessory buildings shall conform and be located as required in section 3.10 of this ordinance.
(d)
Home occupations.
(e)
Gardens.
(f)
Accessory commercial uses. The following commercial establishments may be permitted as customary accessory uses provided such uses do not occupy a total of more than ten percent of the area of the park; are located a minimum distance of 100 feet from any adjoining property line, street, or highway right-of-way; and are intended for the convenience of, and for service to the occupants of the park.
(1)
Laundry and dry cleaning establishments or pick up stations for dry cleaning and laundry concerns; beauty shops; barbershops; and similar personal service businesses.
(2)
Retail stores intended for the convenience of, and for service to the occupants of the park.
(3)
Coin operated vending machines provided such are located within a building and are not visible from the street or adjoining property lines.
(4)
The planning commission may allow other uses when, in its judgment, the proposed use will not conflict with the intent of this or other city ordinance and is appropriate to a residential development.
Sec. 7.03. - Conditional uses.
Conditional uses in the MHP district are as follows:
(a)
Nursery schools, kindergartens or day care facilities provided that all state licensing requirements are met.
(b)
Temporary emergency construction and repair residences.
Sec. 7.04. - Manufactured home park and recreational vehicle development standards.
Development standards for manufactured home parks and recreational vehicles must be in accordance with standards set out in chapter 20 of the Leesburg City Code.
