ARTICLE V. - WELLHEAD PROTECTION

Sec. 34-220. - Short title and purpose.
(a)
This article shall be known as the "Wellhead Protection Ordinance."
(b)
The purpose of this article is to ensure the provisions of a safe and sanitary drinking water supply for the city by establishment of wellhead protection zones surrounding the wellheads for all wells or springs which are the supply sources for the city water system and by the designation and regulation of property uses and conditions which may be maintained within such zones.
(Ord. of 8-2-2005, § 1)
Sec. 34-221. - Definitions.
The following words, terms and phrases, when used in this article, shall have the meanings ascribed to them in this section, except where the context clearly indicates a different meaning:
Hazardous waste or material means any waste or material which, because of its quantity, concentration or physical, chemical or infectious characteristics, may:
(1)
Cause or significantly contribute to an increase in mortality or an increase in serious irreversible or incapacitation reversible illness; or
(2)
Pose a substantial present or potential hazard to human health or to the environment when improperly treated, stored, transported, disposed of or otherwise managed.
Sanitary landfill means a disposal site where solid wastes, including putrescible wastes, or hazardous wastes, is disposed of on land by placing earth cover thereon.
Wellhead means the upper terminal of a well, including adapters, ports, seals, valves and other attachments.
(Ord. of 8-2-2005, § 2)
Sec. 34-222. - Establishment of wellhead protection zone.
There is hereby established a use district known as a wellhead protection zone, identified and described as all the area within a circle, the center of which is the center of any city water supply wellhead and the radius of which is 500 feet.
(Ord. of 8-2-2005, § 3)
Sec. 34-223. - Permitted uses.
The following uses shall be permitted within wellhead protection areas:
(1)
Any use permitted within existing agricultural or single-family residential districts, except that the minimum residential lot size for a lot portion of which lies within the wellhead protection zone shall not be less than one acre; and
(2)
Any open land use where any building located on the property is incidental and accessory to the primary open land use.
(Ord. of 8-2-2005, § 4)
Sec. 34-224. - Prohibited uses.
The following uses of conditions shall be and are hereby prohibited within wellhead protection zones, whether or not such use or condition may otherwise be ordinarily included as a part of a use permitted under section 34-223:
(1)
Surface use or storage of hazardous material, expressly including commercial use of agricultural pesticides;
(2)
Septic tanks or drain fields appurtenant thereto;
(3)
Impervious surfaces other than roofs of buildings and street and driveways and walks serving buildings permitted under section 34-223;
(4)
Sanitary landfills;
(5)
Hazardous waste disposal sites;
(6)
Stormwater infiltration basins;
(7)
Underground storage tanks;
(8)
Sanitary sewer lines within 150 feet of a wellhead.
(Ord. of 8-2-2005, § 5)
Sec. 34-225. - Administration.
The policies and procedures for administration of any wellhead protection zone established under this article, including, without limitation, those applicable to nonconforming uses, exceptions, enforcement and penalties, shall be the same as provided in the existing zoning ordinance for the city, as the same is presently enacted or may from time to time be amended.
(Ord. of 8-2-2005, § 6)
Secs. 34-226—34-243. - Reserved.
