Chapter 12 - CIVIL EMERGENCIES[1]
ARTICLE I. - IN GENERAL

Secs. 12-1—12-18. - Reserved.
ARTICLE II. - EMERGENCY MANAGEMENT
DIVISION 1. - GENERALLY

Sec. 12-19. - Definitions.
The following words, terms and phrases, when used in this article, shall have the meanings ascribed to them in this section, except where the context clearly indicates a different meaning:
Emergency management means the preparation for the carrying out of all emergency functions, other than functions for which military forces are primarily responsible; to prevent, minimize and repair injury and damage resulting from emergencies, energy emergencies, disasters or the imminent threat thereof, of manmade or natural origin caused by enemy attack, sabotage, acts of domestic or international terrorism, civil disturbance, fire, flood, earthquake, wind, storm, wave action, oil spill or other water contamination requiring emergency action to avert danger or damage, epidemic, air contamination, blight, drought, infestation, explosion, riot or other hostile action, radiological action, or other causes. These functions include, without limitation, the following:
(1)
Firefighting services;
(2)
Police services;
(3)
Emergency medical services;
(4)
Rescue;
(5)
Engineering;
(6)
Warning services;
(7)
Communications;
(8)
Defense from radiological, chemical, biological, and other special weapons to include weapons of mass destruction;
(9)
Evacuation of persons from stricken areas;
(10)
Emergency welfare services;
(11)
Emergency transportation;
(12)
Consequence management functions to include victim services;
(13)
Plant protection;
(14)
Temporary restoration of public utility services; and
(15)
Other functions related to civilian protection; together with all other activities necessary or incidental to the preparation for and carrying out of the functions enumerated in this definition.
(Code 2003, § 22-31)
Sec. 12-20. - Unlawful acts during emergencies.
It shall be unlawful for any person to commit any of the following acts during an emergency:
(1)
Willfully obstruct, hinder or delay any member of the emergency management corps in the enforcement of any lawful rule or regulation issued pursuant to this article or in the performance of any duty imposed by virtue of this article.
(2)
Do any act forbidden by any lawful rules or regulations issued pursuant to this article if such act is of such a nature as to give assistance to the enemy; imperil the life or property of any inhabitant of the city; or prevent, hinder or delay the defense or protection thereof.
(3)
Wear, carry or display without authority any mark or identification specified by the emergency management agency.
(Code 2003, § 22-32)
Secs. 12-21—12-43. - Reserved.
DIVISION 2. - EMERGENCY AUTHORITY OF MAYOR

Sec. 12-44. - Conditions authorizing declaration of emergency.
The mayor shall have the right to declare an emergency to exist when, in his opinion, one or more of the following conditions exist:
(1)
There is extreme likelihood of danger of destruction of life or property due to unusual conditions.
(2)
Unusual or extreme weather conditions, making use of city streets or areas difficult or impossible.
(3)
Civil unrest, commotion or uprising is imminent or exists.
(4)
There is a stoppage or loss of electrical power affecting a major portion of the city.
(Code 2003, § 22-51)
Sec. 12-45. - Powers after declaration.
After declaration of an emergency under section 12-44, the mayor shall have the right to exercise any or all of the following powers:
(1)
Use employees of the city to assist in the safety and preservation of life, limb and property of its citizenry.
(2)
Close streets and sidewalks and to delineate areas within the city wherein an emergency exists.
(3)
Impose emergency curfew regulations.
(4)
Close business establishments within the affected area.
(5)
Close any or all city-owned buildings and other facilities to the use of the general public.
(6)
Do all acts necessary and incidental to the preservation of life, limb and property of the citizenry of the city.
(Code 2003, § 22-52)
Sec. 12-46. - Effective period of emergency powers.
No emergency power as set forth in section 12-45 may be effective for more than 72 hours after the declaration of an emergency by the mayor. However, upon declaration of a second or further emergencies to exist, the emergency powers as set forth in section 12-45 may be exercised during such further emergency periods, but never for more than 72 hours in one declared emergency period.
(Code 2003, § 22-53)
Sec. 12-47. - Duration.
No emergency period shall extend beyond the next regular, special or called meeting of the mayor and city council.
(Code 2003, § 22-54)
Sec. 12-48. - Specified area.
The declaration of an emergency as to a portion of the city shall specify with exactness the area in which the emergency is declared to exist.
(Code 2003, § 22-55)
Secs. 12-49—12-69. - Reserved.
DIVISION 3. - EMERGENCY MANAGEMENT AGENCY

Sec. 12-70. - Participation.
It is the desire and intent of the mayor and city council that the city be a part of the county emergency management agency.
(Code 2003, § 22-81)
Sec. 12-71. - Penalties.
Any person violating any provision of this article, or any rule, order, or regulation made pursuant to this article, shall, upon conviction thereof, be punished as provided in section 1-13.
(Code 2003, § 22-82)
Sec. 12-72. - Appointment of director.
The chairman of the county commission, with concurrence of the mayors of cities within the county, shall nominate for appointment, by the governor, a director of emergency management for the entire county.
(Code 2003, § 22-83)
Sec. 12-73. - Duties of director.
When appointed, as stated in section 12-72, the emergency management director is charged with the following duties:
(1)
Represent the mayor and city council on matters pertaining to emergency management.
(2)
Assist city officials in organizing city departments.
(3)
Develop, in conjunction with city and county departments, the county plan for emergency functions set forth in section 12-74. Such plan will be in consonance with the state natural disaster operations plan and nuclear emergency operations plan, and shall be submitted to the governing officials of the county and the cities therein for approval, and thence to the state emergency management agency for approval.
(4)
Maintain the emergency management agency and carry out the day-to-day administration of the county emergency management program, including the submission of required reports, to the state emergency management agency.
(5)
Submit reports as required by governing officials in keeping with good management practices (e.g., financial, daily activity, etc.).
(6)
Obtain, with the authority of governing officials, a facility to be used as the county emergency operating center.
(7)
Coordinate the activities of the county emergency operating center staff during periods of an emergency, under the supervision of the county governing officials.
(Code 2003, § 22-84)
Sec. 12-74. - Composition; functions.
(a)
The county emergency management agency shall be established around existing city and county departments. The emergency functions are assigned as follows:
EXPAND
Department/Agency
Functions
County board of commissioners and city mayors Direction and control
County clerk Administrative services
Resources management
County sheriff's department and city police departments Police services
Search and recover
Communications
County fire department and city fire departments Fire control
Hazardous material control
Rescue
County superintendent of schools and municipal superintendents of schools Transportation services
County road and bridges department and city street departments Engineering
City water, light and gas commission and county sewerage and water authority Utilities
Petroleum
Solid fuel
County department of family and children services Social services
County health department Health and medical services
County chamber of commerce Emergency public information
County emergency management agency Evacuation
Radiological protection
Training
Damage assessment
Public property assistance
Specific hazards
State military support
County chapter, American Red Cross Sheltering and temporary housing
Food services
  (b)
Heads of city departments listed in subsection (a) of this section are responsible for developing appropriate annexes to the local emergency operations plan (EOP) for their assigned emergency functions. Such annexes will be submitted to the emergency management director for inclusion in the local EOP for submission to appropriate local officials for approval.
(Code 2003, § 22-85)
Sec. 12-75. - Powers during an emergency or disaster.
Upon a manmade or natural disaster, actual enemy attack upon the United States, or any other emergency which may affect the lives and property of the citizens of the city, the mayor separately, or jointly with the chair of the county commissioners, or in their absences their legally appointed successors, may determine that an emergency or disaster exists and thereafter shall have and may exercise, for such period as such emergency or disaster exists or continues, the following powers:
(1)
Enforce all rules, laws and regulations relating to emergency management, and to assume direct operational control over all emergency management resources.
(2)
Seize or take for temporary use any private property for the protection of the public.
(3)
Sell, lend, give or distribute all or any such property or supplies among the inhabitants of the county and to maintain a strict accounting of property or supplies distributed and for funds received for such property or supplies.
(4)
Perform and exercise such other functions and duties, and take such emergency actions as may be necessary to promote and secure the safety, protection and well-being of the inhabitants of the county.
(Code 2003, § 22-86)
Sec. 12-76. - Volunteers.
All persons, other than officers and employees of the city, volunteering in service pursuant to the defense under this article shall serve without compensation. While engaged in such service, they shall have the same immunities as officers and employees of the city performing similar duties.
(Code 2003, § 22-87)
