PART I - CHARTER[1]
AN ACT
To create a new charter for the City of Leesburg, Georgia, and to repeal and replace the charter provided by an Act establishing a new charter for the Town of Leesburg, approved December 21, 1898 (1898 Ga. Laws, p. 204), as amended; to provide for all matters relative thereto; to provide an effective date; to repeal conflicting laws; and for other purposes.
BE IT ENACTED BY THE GENERAL ASSEMBLY OF GEORGIA:
ARTICLE I. - CITY OF LEESBURG

Sec. 1.10. - Incorporation.
This Act shall constitute the whole charter of the City of Leesburg repealing and replacing the charter provided by an Act of the General Assembly approved December 21, 1898 (1898 Ga. Laws, p. 204), as amended. The City of Leesburg, Georgia, in the county of Lee and the inhabitants thereof, are hereby constituted and declared a body politic and corporate under the same name and style of [the] City of Leesburg, Georgia, and by that name shall have perpetual succession, may sue and be sued, plead and be impleaded, in all the courts of law and equity, and in all actions whatsoever, and may have and use a common seal and change it at pleasure.
Sec. 1.11. - Incorporation.
The City of Leesburg, Georgia, in the County of Lee, and the inhabitants thereof shall continue to be a body politic and corporate under the same name and style of the City of Leesburg, Georgia. Under that name, said City shall continue to be vested with all of the property and rights of property which now belong to the corporation; shall have perpetual succession; may sue and be sued; may contract and be contracted with; may acquire and hold such property, real and personal, as may be devised, bequeathed, sold or in any manner conveyed or dedicated to or otherwise acquired by it, and from time to time may hold or invest, sell, or dispose of the same; may have a common seal and alter and renew the same at will; and may exercise in conformity with this Charter all municipal powers, functions, rights, privileges, and immunities of every name and nature whatsoever.
Sec. 1.12. - Corporate boundaries.
(a)
The boundaries of the City of Leesburg shall be as follows:
All that tract or parcel of land lying and being all of Land Lots 44, 45, 46, 47, 50, 51, 52, 53, 76, 77, 78, 79, 81, 82, 83, and a portion of Land Lot 84 in the Second Land District, Lee County, Georgia, and being more particularly described as follows:
Beginning at the southwest corner of Land Lot 76 and from said Point of Beginning proceed in an easterly direction along the southern boundary line of said Land Lot 76 to the southeastern corner of said Land Lot 76, which is also the northwest corner of Land Lot 84; thence proceed south along the western boundary line of Land Lot 84 to the point where said western boundary line intersects the southern right-of-way line of Georgia Highway Route 32; thence proceed in an easterly direction along the southern right-of-way line of said Georgia Highway Route 32 to the point where said right-of-way line intersects the western right-of-way line of U.S. Highway 19; thence proceed south along the western right-of-way line of U.S. Highway 19 to the point where such right-of-way line intersects the southern boundary line of Land Lot 84; thence proceed in an easterly direction along said southern boundary line and along the southern boundary lines of Land Lots 83, 82, and 81 to the southeastern corner of Land Lot 81; thence proceed north along the eastern boundary of Land Lot 81 to the northeast corner of said Land Lot 81; thence proceed west along said northern boundary line of Land Lot 81 to the southeast corner of Land Lot 79; thence proceed north along the eastern boundary line of Land Lot 79 until said line intersects with the northern right-of-way line of Georgia Highway Route 32; thence proceed south 89 degrees 20 minutes 00 seconds west a distance of 249.10 feet to a point; thence proceed north 02 degrees 11 minutes 00 seconds east a distance of 600.01 feet to a point; thence proceed south 89 degrees 20 minutes 00 seconds west a distance of 75.00 feet to a point; thence proceed north 02 degrees 11 minutes 00 seconds east a distance of 200.00 feet to a point; thence proceed north 89 degrees 20 minutes 00 seconds east a distance of 75.00 feet to a point; thence proceed north 02 degrees 11 minutes 00 seconds east a distance of 221.31 feet to a point; thence proceed south 87 degrees 34 minutes 23 seconds west a distance of 168.01 feet to a point; thence proceed north 01 degrees 32 minutes 03 seconds west a distance of 215.00 feet to a point; thence proceed north 89 degrees 37 minutes 41 seconds east a distance of 122.35 feet to a point; thence proceed north 01 degrees 43 minutes 19 seconds west a distance of 219.86 feet to a point; thence proceed north 89 degrees 37 minutes 41 seconds east a distance of 235.94 feet to a point on the eastern boundary line of Land Lot 50; thence proceed north along the eastern boundary lines of Land Lots 50 and 47 to the northeastern corner of Land Lot 47; thence proceed west along the northern boundary lines of Land Lot 47, land Lot 46 and Land Lot 45 to the point where the northern boundary line of Land Lot 45 intersects the western right-of-way line of the Old Smithville Road also known as the Jones Place Road; thence proceed south along said western right-of-way line of the Old Smithville Road a distance of 2,132.94 feet to a point; thence proceed north 89 degrees 55 minutes west a distance of 1,496.61 feet to a point on the eastern right-of-way line of the Central of Georgia Railroad; thence proceed north 22 degrees 52 minutes west along the eastern right-of-way line of the Central of Georgia Railroad until said right-of-way line intersects the northern boundary line of Land Lot 45; thence proceed west along the northern boundary lines of Land Lot 45 and Land Lot 44 to the northwest corner of Land Lot 44; thence proceed south along the western boundary lines of Land Lots 44, 53, and 76 to the Point of Beginning.
(b)
The boundaries of the city shall be shown on a map or a written description or a combination of the two maintained in the office of the city clerk, which map shall be kept at all times current. Copies of such map or description certified by the city clerk shall be admitted in evidence in all courts and shall have the same force and effect as the original map or description.
(1996 Ga. Laws, p. 4109, § 1)
Sec. 1.13. - Specific powers.
The corporate powers of the government of the City of Leesburg, to be exercised by the governing authority, may include the following:
(1)
To levy and to provide for the assessment, valuation, revaluation, and collection of taxes on all property subject to taxation;
(2)
To levy and to provide for the collection of license fees and taxes on privileges, occupations, trades and professions, and to license and regulate such privileges, occupations, trades and professions, and to provide for the manner and method of payment of such licenses and taxes;
(3)
To make appropriations for the support of the government of the City, to authorize the expenditure of money for any purposes authorized by this Charter and for any purpose for which a municipality is authorized by the laws of the State of Georgia, and to provide for the payment of expenses of the city;
(4)
To appropriate and borrow money for the payment of debts of the City and to issue bonds for the purpose of raising revenue to carry out any project, program or venture authorized by this Charter or the laws of the State of Georgia;
(5)
To acquire, dispose of, and hold in trust or otherwise, any real, personal, or mixed property, in fee simple or lesser interest, inside or outside the property limits of the City;
(6)
To accept or refuse gifts, donations, bequests or grants from any source for any purpose related to the powers and duties of the City and the general welfare of its citizens, on such terms and conditions as the donor or grantor may impose;
(7)
To condemn property, inside or outside the corporate limits of the City for present or future use, and for any corporate purpose deemed necessary by the governing authority, under Section 36-202 of the Code of Georgia, 1933, or under other applicable Public Acts as are or may be enacted;
(8)
To acquire, lease, construct, operate, maintain, sell and dispose of public utilities, including, but not limited to, a system of waterworks, sewers and drains, sewage disposal, gas works, electric light plants, transportation facilities, public airports, and any other public utility; to fix the taxes, charges, rates, fares, fees, assessments, regulations and penalties and withdrawal of service for refusal or failure to pay same and the manner in which such remedies shall be enforced;
(9)
To grant franchises or make contracts for public utilities and public services, not to exceed periods of 5 years; to prescribe the rates, fares, regulations and standards and conditions of service applicable to the service to be provided by the franchise grantee or contractor, insofar as not in conflict with such regulations by the Public Service Commission;
(10)
To lay out, open, extend, widen, narrow, establish or change the grade of, abandon, or close, construct, pave, curb, gutter, adorn with shade trees, otherwise improve, maintain, repair, clean, prevent erosion of, and light roads, alleys, and walkways within the corporate limits of the City;
(11)
To grant franchises and rights-of-way throughout the streets and roads for the use of public utilities;
(12)
To provide for the acquisition, construction, building, operation and maintenance of public ways, parks and playgrounds, recreational facilities, cemeteries, markets and market houses, public buildings, libraries, sewers, drains, sewerage treatment, airports, hospitals, and charitable, cultural education, recreational, conservation, sport, curative, corrective, detentional, penal and medical institutions, agencies, and facilities; and any other public improvements, inside or outside the corporate limits of the City; and to regulate the use thereof; and for such purposes, property may be acquired by condemnation under Section 36-202 of the Code of Georgia, 1933, or other applicable Public Acts, as are or may be enacted;
(13)
To require real estate owners to repair and maintain in a safe condition the sidewalks adjoining their lots or lands; and to enact ordinances establishing the terms and conditions under which such repairs and maintenance shall be effected, including the penalties to be imposed for failure to do so;
(14)
To regulate the erection and construction of buildings and all other structures; to adopt building, housing, plumbing, electrical, gas, and heating and air conditioning codes and to regulate all housing, building, and building trades; to license all building trades, and to license the construction and erection of buildings and all other structures. The provisions of this subsection shall not be construed to authorize the establishment of standards for, or the regulation of the electrical wiring and equipment by or for a utility rendering communication services and required by it to be utilized in the rendition of its duly authorized service to the public;
(15)
To provide for the prevention and punishment of drunkenness, riots, and public disturbances;
(16)
To regulate or prohibit junk dealers; pawnshops; the use and sale of firearms; and to regulate the transportation, storage and use of combustible, explosive and inflammable materials, the use of lighting and heating equipment, and any other business or situation which may be dangerous to persons or property;
(17)
To regulate and control the conduct of peddlers, and itinerant trades, theatrical performances, exhibitions, shows of any kind whatever, by taxation or otherwise;
(18)
To license, tax, regulate, or prohibit professional fortunetelling or palmistry;
(19)
To prohibit or regulate and control the erection, removal, and maintenance of signs, billboards, trees, shrubs, fences, buildings and any and all other structures or obstructions upon or adjacent to the rights-of-way of streets and roads or within view thereof, within or abutting the corporate limits of the City and to prescribe penalties and punishment for violation of such ordinances;
(20)
To prescribe standards of health and sanitation and to provide for the enforcement of such standards;
(21)
To regulate the emission of smoke or other exhaust which pollutes the air and to prevent the pollution of natural streams which flow within the corporate limits of the City;
(22)
To fix and establish fire limits and from time to time to extend, enlarge or restrict [the] same; to prescribe fire safety regulations not inconsistent with general law, relating to both fire prevention and detection and to firefighting, and to prescribe penalties and punishment for violation thereof;
(23)
To provide for the destruction and removal of any building or other structure which may or might become dangerous or detrimental to the public;
(24)
To provide for the collection and disposal of garbage, rubbish and refuse and to regulate the collection and disposal of garbage, rubbish and refuse by others; and to provide for the separate collection of glass, tin, aluminum, cardboard, paper, and other recyclable materials and to provide for the sale of such items;
(25)
To levy, fix, assess, and collect a garbage, refuse and trash collection and disposal and other sanitary service charge, tax, or fee, for such services as may be necessary in the operation of the City from all individuals, firms, and corporations residing in or doing business therein benefitting from such services; to enforce the payment of such charges, taxes or fees, and to provide for the manner and method of collecting such service charges;
(26)
To levy a fee, charge [a] sewer tax as necessary to ensure the acquiring, constructing, equipping, operating, maintaining, and extending of a sewage disposal plant and sewerage system, and to levy on the users of sewers and the sewerage system a sewer service charge[,] fee or sewer tax for the use of the sewers; and to provide for the manner and method of collecting such service charges and for enforcing payment of same;
(27)
To charge, impose and collect a sewer connection fee or fees, and to charge the same from time to time; such fees to be levied on the users connecting with the sewerage system;
(28)
To define, regulate and prohibit any act, practice, conduct or use of property which is detrimental, or likely to be detrimental, to the health, sanitation, cleanliness, welfare, and safety of the inhabitants of the City and to provide for the enforcement of such standards;
(29)
To define a nuisance and provide for its abatement whether on public or private property;
(30)
To provide for the preservation and protection of property and equipment of the City and the administration and use of same by the public, and to prescribe penalties and punishment for violations thereof;
(31)
To establish minimum standards for and to regulate building construction and repair, electrical wiring and equipment, gas installation and equipment, plumbing, and housing, for the health, sanitation, cleanliness, welfare, and safety of inhabitants of the City and to provide for the enforcement of such standards;
(32)
To provide that persons given jail sentences in the recorder's court shall work out such sentence in any public works or on the streets, roads, drains and squares in the City; or to provide for commitment of such persons to any county work camp or jail by agreement with the appropriate county officials;
(33)
To adopt ordinances and regulations for the prevention of loitering, disorderly conduct, public drunkenness and disturbing the peace in the corporate limits of the City and to prohibit the playing of lotteries therein, and to prohibit or regulate by ordinance such other conduct and activities within said City which, while not constituting an offense against the laws of this State, is deemed by the governing authority to be detrimental and offensive to the peace and good order of the City or to the welfare of the citizens thereof;
(34)
To regulate and license, or prohibit the keeping or running at large of animals and fowl and to provide for the impoundment of same, if in violation of any ordinance or lawful order; also to provide for their disposition by sale, gift, or humane destruction, when not redeemed as provided by ordinance; to provide punishment for violation of ordinance enacted hereunder;
(35)
To regulate the operation of motor vehicles and exercise control over all traffic, including parking, upon or across the streets, roads, alleys and walkways of the City;
(36)
To regulate and license vehicles operated for hire in the City; to limit the number of such vehicles; to require the operators thereof to be licensed; to require public liability insurance on such vehicles in the amounts to be prescribed by ordinance; and to regulate and rent parking spaces in public ways for the use of such vehicles;
(37)
To provide and maintain a system of pensions and retirement for officers and employees of the City;
(38)
To levy and provide for the collection of special assessments to cover the costs for any public improvements;
(39)
To enter into contracts and agreements with other governmental entities and with private persons, firms and corporations providing for services to be furnished and payments to be made therefor;
(40)
To create, alter or abolish departments, boards, offices, commissions and agencies of the City, and to confer upon such agencies the necessary and appropriate authority for carrying out all the powers conferred upon or delegated to same;
(41)
To make, ordain and establish such bylaws, ordinances, rules and regulations as shall appear necessary for the security, welfare, convenience and interest of the City and the inhabitants thereof, and for preserving the health, peace, order and good government of the City;
(42)
To provide penalties for violations of any ordinance adopted pursuant to the authority of this Charter and the laws of the State of Georgia;
(43)
To exercise the power of arrest through duly appointed policemen;
(44)
To establish procedures for determining and proclaiming that an emergency situation exists within or without the City, and to make and carry out all reasonable provisions deemed necessary to deal with or meet such an emergency for the protection, safety, health or well-being of the citizens of the City;
(45)
To exercise and enjoy all other powers, functions, rights, privileges and immunities necessary or desirable to promote or protect the safety, health, peace, security, good order, comfort, convenience, or general welfare of the City and its inhabitants; and to exercise all implied powers necessary to carry into execution all powers granted in this Charter as fully and completely as if such powers were fully enumerated herein; and to exercise all powers now or in the future authorized to be exercised by other municipal governments under other laws of the State of Georgia. No enumeration of particular powers in this Charter shall be held to be exclusive of others, nor restrictive of general words and phrases granting powers; but shall be held to be in addition to such powers unless expressly prohibited to municipalities under the Constitution or applicable laws of the State of Georgia.
(46)
There shall be and there is hereby established in and for the City of Leesburg to be conducted in such manner and at such time, except Sunday as the City Council may prescribe, a Municipal Court in which a Municipal Court Judge shall be the presiding officer, in case of the absence or disability of the presiding officer for any cause, a Municipal Court Judge or any Judge in any court of record which regularly hears traffic offenses or ordinance violations may preside. The procedure for appointment, compensation, qualifications and tenure of the Municipal Judge, shall be set forth by the City Council in ordinances addressing the same. The procedure in said court, with reference to the conduct and trial of cases therein, not in conflict with this section of the Charter or the general law shall be prescribed by the City Council or by rule or order of the presiding officer thereof not in conflict with the Charter or City on the subject, and the City Council shall have the power to provide by ordinance for the compulsory attendance of all persons violating any municipal ordinance before said Municipal Court, by summons or copy of charges, to answer the offense charged, and when employed, such summons or copy of the charges shall be issued as provided for subpoenas and shall contain a summary or simple statement of the offense charged, and disobedience of said summons or copy of charges shall be punished as provided for disobedience of subpoenas.
(1)
Jurisdiction; authority to punish; extent of penalty, etc. Said Municipal Court shall have jurisdiction to try all offenders against the laws and ordinances of the City of Leesburg committed within the corporate limits or police jurisdiction, and to punish persons convicted in said court of violating such laws and ordinances in a fine not to exceed one thousand dollars ($1,000.00) or by imprisonment in the Lee County Jail or other place provided, or by compulsory labor on the streets or other public works or community service not to exceed six (6) months and either one or more of such punishments maybe imposed, or the several punishments maybe cumulative, or the fines may be imposed with alternative of such imprisonment or compulsory labor or coerced or enforced by said punishment or labor; provided, that the punishments, within the limits prescribed, shall only be imposed by said court in the amount and manner prescribed by the penal ordinances of said city, but in the event no penalty be provided for the doing of which is made unlawful by ordinances, the court shall have power to proceed to impose the punishments as herein enumerated. The jurisdiction of said Municipal court shall further extend to the investigation of any charge involving or amounting to a violation of the penal laws of the State of Georgia, when such charge is entered upon the docket of said court and when the offense is alleged to have been committed within the corporate or police limits of the city, and provided such charges are made in writing and verified to the best of the knowledge and belief of the person making the same.
(2)
Powers of presiding officer generally; contempt, etc. The presiding officer of said court shall have the same power as judges of the superior court of this state to punish for contempt of said city recorder's court by a fine not to exceed two hundred fifty dollars ($250.00) or imprisonment in the Lee County Jail, or other place provided, or in Lee County jail not to exceed 10 days, and either or both of said punishments may be imposed in the discretion of the court, or the fine may be imposed with the alternative of such imprisonment, or coerced by such imprisonment. Said presiding officer of said court shall be to all intents and purposes a Magistrate insofar as to enable him or her to issue warrants for offenses committed within the City of Leesburg or its police jurisdiction against the penal laws of this state, this either before a hearing or trial of the charge in said Municipal court; provided, the affidavit required by law to obtain warrants is first made before said presiding Officer, which warrant may be executed by any member of the police force of the city. Said presiding officer of said court as such ex officio Magistrate, shall have the power and authority to commit to the jail of Lee County offenders against the law of the State of Georgia, and to admit them to bail, in bailable cause, for their appearance at the next term of the court of competent jurisdiction to be held in and for the County of Lee, after legal investigation, and shall, if the evidence in the trial of an offense against the ordinances of the city discloses the violation of any state law, have the power to bind the defendant over as above set forth.
(3)
Powers of presiding officer as to penalties. The presiding officer of said court shall have the right and power to vacate or reduce penalties imposed by him at any time he deems such action to be in the interest of justice. He shall also have the power to suspend sentences and to permit them to be served on probation; and may affix to such suspension or probation such terms and conditions of suspension or probation as he shall consider reasonable and proper, including, but not limited to, those conditions of probation which Superior Court judges are authorized by law to impose. He may revoke any suspended or probated sentence for breach of condition after reasonable notice and hearing and require the remainder of the sentence to be served or carried out. Notwithstanding any of the foregoing provisions, however, no fines which have been paid and collected shall be refunded in whole or in part except by the City Council upon the written recommendation of the presiding officer who imposed the fine.
(4)
Dockets; notice of accusation, etc. There shall be kept in such Court one or more dockets, upon which shall appear the names of each person arrested by the officers and members of the police force in the city for any offense against the municipal ordinances or penal law, and such person brought before said court by summons, warrant or other right issued therefrom, to answer for the violation of any ordinance of the city or any state penal law, together with the names of the witnesses against them, and a summary or simple statement of the offenses with which they are charged, which statement shall be deemed sufficient notice to or accusation of the accused, provided, the City Council may prescribe such additional notice or accusation as they may deem proper. Upon the trial of such persons the sentence imposed or the disposition of the same shall be entered in writing opposite the name and charge, by the presiding officer of said court, which respective entries signed by the presiding officer shall constitute the judgment of the recorder's court in such respective case.
(5)
Authority to compel attendance by subpoena, disobeying subpoena, etc. Said court shall have the power to compel the attendance of witnesses in all proceedings before the court by subpoena (which subpoena) may be issued by the chief of police or any member of the police force or city clerk, and shall bear test in the name of the presiding officer and shall contain a brief statement of the case, the time set for the trial or hearing and the time at which the person subpoenaed shall appear. The presiding officer of said court shall have the power to punish any person disobeying said subpoena of court, within the limits of punishment in this Act prescribed. Such subpoena shall be served by any officer or member of the police force of the city. Any person who may be charged with contempt of court as hereinafter provided, may be arrested, by an attachment or warrant written or signed by the presiding officer in said court, which said attachment or warrant may be executed by any member of the police force.
(6)
Ministerial officers. The ministerial officers of said court shall be the chief and other members of the police force, any of whom may execute the mandates of the court and to whom, in the alternative, all mesne and final processes shall be directed.
(7)
Right of certiorari. The right of certiorari from the decision and judgment of the recorder's court shall exist in all cases and shall be exercised under the provision of the laws of the State of Georgia in such cases made and provided.
(8)
Forfeiture of appearance bond. In any case where any person has deposited a sum of money as a bond for the appearance in said recorder's court of a person charged with an offense which said court has jurisdiction to try, such sum of money shall be forfeited by the owner thereof and to be paid over by said recorder's court to the city treasurer as the property of the City of Leesburg, in the event the party does not appear at the time appointed, for whose appearance such sum of money was deposited as a bond.
(9)
Failure to appear; scire facias. When any bond is given by any person charged with an offense against the ordinances or arrested for such offense, for his or her appearance at any session of the recorder's court, and such person so giving bond shall fail to appear at the time appointed in said bond for his or her appearances, then the presiding officer in said court shall issue a scire facias against the principal as and his or her security calling on them to show cause, in said court at the time specified in said scire facias, why said bond should not be forfeited, which said scire facias shall be served by any member of the police force of the City of Leesburg at least two days prior to the return day thereon upon the principal and sureties personally or in the absence of either from the county or state, then by one newspaper publication of said scire facias two days before the return thereof. If at the return time of said scire facias in said court no sufficient cause be shown to the contrary, judgment shall be entered upon said bond against said principal and his or her sureties. On the entering of said judgment the city clerk shall issue execution against the principal and his surety, in conformity with such judgment, and in the form and manner prescribed for execution issued by the city for taxes, and which execution shall be placed in the hands of the chief of police who shall proceed to collect the same as tax executions are collected by the city.
(10)
Sentences involving labor. Persons sentenced to labor by said recorder's court shall be turned over to the superintendent of streets or other officer in charge of the streets and public works, to be put to work on said streets or public works in or around said City.
(11)
Costs. The City Council of the City of Leesburg shall have the power to provide by ordinance for the charge and collection of all items of cost in cases brought into said recorder's court, such as are incident and lawfully chargeable to the prosecution of said case.
(12)
Failure to pay fine or cost; collection. Upon the failure or refusal of any person to pay any fine or cost imposed by said recorder's court the same may, in addition to other methods, be enforced and collected by an execution issued and directed as is provided for the issuance and collection of tax executions by the city, and sales thereunder shall be conducted in the same manner.
(13)
Issuance of warrant for violation of ordinances. Upon complaint being filed with the [municipal judge] recorder or Mayor, or in their absence or disability to act, any member of the City Council by affidavit or such other manner as he may require that any person has violated any municipal ordinance or law, said Mayor or [municipal judge] recorder shall have the power to issue a warrant for the arrest of said offender, which warrant shall be directed to the chief of police, his deputy or any member of the police force of the City and shall be signed by said Mayor or [municipal judge] recorder. The City Council of Leesburg may also appoint one or more persons as warrant commissioners who shall be authorized to issue warrants for violations of city ordinances upon affidavit of a complainant that such offense has been committed. Said Warrant Commissioner[s] shall not be sworn or uniformed police officers, and shall have no duties in regard to the prosecution, conviction or punishment of offenders against City ordinances.
(1977 Ga. Laws, p. 4639, § 1; 2006 Ga. Laws (Act No. 829), p. 4385, § 1)
Sec. 1.14. - General powers.
In addition to all other powers herein granted, the City shall be vested with any and all powers which municipal corporations are or may hereafter be authorized or required to exercise under the Constitution and laws of the State of Georgia, as fully and completely as though such powers were specifically enumerated herein; and any and all powers which the City was heretofore authorized to exercise upon the effective date of this Charter.
Sec. 1.15. - Construction.
The powers of the City shall be construed liberally and in favor of the City. The specific mention or failure to mention particular powers in this Charter shall not be construed as limiting in any way the general power of the City as stated in this Charter. It is the intention hereof to grant the City full power and right to exercise all governmental authority necessary for the effective operation and conduct of the City and all of its affairs.
Sec. 1.16. - Exercise of powers.
All powers, functions, rights, privileges, and immunities of the City, its officers, agencies, or employees shall be carried into execution as provided by this Charter. If this Charter makes no provision, such powers, functions, rights, privileges, and immunities shall be carried into execution as provided by ordinance of the governing authority and as provided by pertinent laws of the State of Georgia.
Sec. 1.17. - Ordinances.
All ordinances, bylaws, rules and regulations now in force in the city not inconsistent with this Charter, are hereby declared valid and of full effect and force until amended or repealed by the governing authority.
ARTICLE II. - LEGISLATIVE BRANCH

Sec. 2.10. - Creation; composition; number; election.
The legislative authority of the government of the City of Leesburg, except as otherwise specifically provided in this charter, shall be vested in a city council to be composed of a mayor and six councilmen. The mayor and councilmen shall be elected in the manner provided by Article IV of this charter.
(1981 Ga. Laws, p. 3583, § 1)
Sec. 2.11. - Terms and qualification of office.
The members of the Council shall serve for terms of 4 years, except as provided in Article IV of this Charter, and until their respective successors are elected and qualified. No person shall be eligible to serve as mayor or councilman unless he shall have been a resident of the City for a period of 1 year immediately prior to the date of the election of mayor or members of the Council and shall continue to reside therein during his period of service, and shall be registered and qualified to vote in municipal elections of the City of Leesburg, and unless he shall meet the qualification standards required for members of the Georgia House of Representatives, as are now or may in the future be prescribed by the Georgia Constitution.
(1981 Ga. Laws, p. 3583, § 2)
Sec. 2.12. - Vacancy; forfeiture of office; filling of vacancies.
(a)
Vacancies. The office of mayor or councilman shall become vacant upon the incumbent's death, resignation, forfeiture of office or removal from office in any manner authorized by this Charter or the laws of the State of Georgia.
(b)
Forfeiture of office. The mayor or any councilman shall forfeit his office if he:
(1)
Lacks at any time during his term of office any qualifications of the office as prescribed by this Charter or the laws of the State of Georgia;
(2)
Willfully and knowingly violates any express prohibition of this Charter; or
(3)
Is convicted of a crime involving moral turpitude.
(c)
Filling of vacancies. A vacancy in the office of mayor or councilman shall be filled for the remainder of the unexpired term, if any, as provided for in Article IV [of this Charter],
Sec. 2.13. - Compensation and expenses.
The council shall establish the salary of the councilmembers and the mayor. The salary of the councilmembers shall be not less than $300.00, nor more than $1,800.00 per year, paid in such manner as the council shall determine. The salary of the mayor shall be two times the salary set for the councilmembers and the salary of the mayor pro tempore shall be one and one-half times the salary set for the councilmembers, and salaries shall be paid in the same manner as for the councilmembers. The mayor and councilmembers shall be entitled to receive their actual and necessary expenses incurred in the performance of their duties of office.
(1995 Ga. Laws, p. 4136, § 1)
Sec. 2.14. - Prohibitions.
(a)
Holding other office. Except as authorized by law, no member of the Council shall hold any other elective City office or City employment during the term for which he was elected.
(b)
Voting when personally interested. Neither the mayor nor any other member of the Council shall vote upon any question in which he is personally interested.
Sec. 2.15. - Inquiries and investigations.
The Council may make inquiries and investigations into the affairs of the City and the conduct of any department, office, or agency thereof and for this purpose may subpoena witnesses, administer oaths, take testimony, and require the production of evidence. Any person who fails or refuses to obey a lawful order issued in the exercise of these powers by the Council shall be punished as provided by ordinance.
Sec. 2.17. - General power and authority of the council.
(a)
Except as otherwise provided by law or by this Charter, the Council shall be vested with all the powers of government of the City of Leesburg as provided by Article I [of this Charter].
(b)
In addition to all other powers conferred upon it by law, the Council shall have the authority to adopt and provide for the execution of such ordinances, resolutions, rules and regulations, not inconsistent with this Charter, the Constitution, and the laws of the State of Georgia, which it shall deem necessary, expedient, or helpful for the peace, good order, protection of life and property, health, welfare, sanitation, comfort, convenience, prosperity, or well-being of the inhabitants of the City of Leesburg and may enforce such ordinance by imposing penalties for violation thereof.
(c)
The council may by ordinance create, change, alter, abolish, or consolidate offices, agencies, and departments, of the City and may assign additional functions to any of the offices, agencies, and departments expressly provided for by this Charter.
Sec. 2.20. - Chief executive officer.
The City Manager shall be the chief executive of the City of Leesburg. He or she shall possess, have, and exercise all of the executive and administrative powers granted to the City under the Constitution and laws of the State of Georgia, and all the executive and administrative powers contained in this Charter.
(2014 Ga. Laws, p. 4454, § 1; Ord. of 11-7-2013, § 2.20)
Sec. 2.21. - Term; qualification; compensation.
The mayor shall be elected for a term of 4 years, except as provided in Article IV of this Charter, and until his successor is elected and qualified. He shall be a qualified elector of the City of Leesburg, shall meet the qualifications required of members of the State House of Representatives by the Georgia Constitution, and shall have been a resident of the City of Leesburg for a period of 1 year immediately preceding his election. He shall continue to reside in the City of Leesburg during the period of his service. The compensation of the mayor shall be $600.00 per year.
(1981 Ga. Laws, p. 3583, § 3)
Sec. 2.22. - Powers and duties.
The mayor shall:
(a)
See that all laws and ordinances of the City are faithfully executed;
(b)
Recommend to the Council such measures relative to the affairs of the City, improvement of the government, and promotion of the welfare of its inhabitants as he may deem expedient;
(c)
Call special meetings of the Council;
(d)
Perform other duties as may be required by law, this Charter or ordinance.
Sec. 2.23. - Mayor pro tem.
During the absence or disability of the mayor for any cause, the mayor pro tem, or in his or her absence or disability for any reason, any one of the council members chosen by the Council, shall be clothed with all the rights and privileges of the mayor and shall perform the duties of the office of the mayor so long as such absence or disability shall continue. The compensation of the mayor pro tem shall be $380.00 per year.
ARTICLE III. - EXECUTIVE BRANCH
DIVISION 1. - ORGANIZATION AND GENERAL PROVISIONS

Sec. 3.10. - Administrative and service departments.
(a)
The Council, by ordinance, may establish, abolish, merge, or consolidate offices, positions of employment, departments and agencies of the City, as they shall deem necessary for the proper administration of the affairs and government of the City. The Council shall prescribe the functions and duties of existing departments, offices, and agencies or of any departments, offices and agencies hereinafter created or established; may provide that the same person shall fill any number of offices and positions of employment; and may transfer or change the function or duties of offices, positions of employment, departments and agencies of the City.
(b)
The operations and responsibilities of each department now or hereafter established in the City shall be distributed among such divisions or bureaus as may be provided by ordinance of the Council. Each department shall consist of such officers, employees, and positions as may be provided by this Charter or by ordinance, and shall be subject to the general supervision and guidance of the mayor and Council.
(c)
Except as otherwise provided by this Charter, the directors of departments and other appointed officers of the City shall serve at the pleasure of the appointing authority. Vacancies occurring in an appointive office shall be filled in the same manner as prescribed by this Charter for an original appointment.
(d)
Except as otherwise provided by law, the directors of departments and other appointed officers of the City shall be appointed solely on the basis of their respective administrative and professional qualifications.
(e)
All appointive officers and directors of departments shall receive such compensation as prescribed by ordinance of the City Council.
Sec. 3.20. - City Manager.
The Council may appoint a City Manager. The Council may specifically delegate the City manager any of the administrative or budgetary duties of the mayor.
(Ord. of 11-7-2013, § 3.20)
Sec. 3.21. - Appointment; qualifications; and compensation.
The City Council shall appoint a City Manager for an indefinite term and fix the manager's compensation. The manager shall be appointed solely on the basis of executive and administrative qualifications. The manager shall have the minimum qualifications as set forth by the City Council.
(Ord. of 11-7-2013, § 3.21)
Sec. 3.22. - Removal of the City Manager.
The City Manager is employed at will and may be summarily removed from office at any time by the City Council.
(Ord. of 11-7-2013, § 3.22)
Sec. 3.23. - Acting City Manager.
By letter filed with the City Clerk, the City Manager shall designate, subject to approval of the City Council, a qualified department head within the City of Leesburg to exercise the powers and perform the duties of the City Manager during the City Manager's temporary absence or physical or mental disability. During such absence or disability, the City Council may revoke such designation at any time and appoint another employee or elected official of the City to serve until the City Manager shall return or the City Manager's disability shall cease.
(Ord. of 11-7-2013, § 3.23)
Sec. 3.24. - Powers and duties of the City Manager.
The City Manager shall be the chief executive and administrative officer of the city. The City Manager shall be responsible to the City Council for the administration of all city affairs placed in the City Manager's charge by or under this charter. As the chief executive and administrative officer, the City Manager shall:
(a)
Appoint and, when the City Manager deems it necessary for the city, suspend or remove all city employees and administrative officers the manager appoints, except as otherwise provided by law or charter. The City Manager may authorize any administrative officer who is subject to the City Manager's direction and supervision to exercise these powers with respect to subordinates in that officer's department, office or agency.
(b)
Direct and supervise the administration of all departments, offices and agencies of the city, except as otherwise provided by this charter or law;
(c)
Attend all City Council meetings except for executive sessions held for the purposes of deliberating on the appointment, discipline or removal of the City Manager and have the right to take part in discussion but not vote;
(d)
See that all laws, provisions of this charter, and acts of the City Council, subject to enforcement by the City Manager or by officers subject to the City Manager's direction and supervision, are faithfully executed;
(e)
Prepare and submit the annual operating budget and capital budget to the City Council;
(f)
Submit to the City Council and make available to the public a complete report on the finances and administrative activities of the City as of the end of each fiscal year;
(g)
Make such other reports as the City Council may require concerning the operations of city departments, offices and agencies subject to the City Manager's direction and supervision;
(h)
Keep the City Council fully advised as to the financial condition and future needs of the City, and make such recommendations to the City Council concerning the affairs of the City as the City Manager deems desirable; and
(i)
Perform other such duties as are specified in this charter or as may be required by the City Council.
(Ord. of 11-7-2013, § 3.24)
Sec. 3.25. - Council interference with administration.
Except for the purpose of inquiries and investigations under Section 2.15, the city council or its members shall deal with city officers and employees who are subject to the direction and supervision of the manager solely through the manager, and neither the city council nor its members shall give orders to any such officer or employee, either publicly or privately.
(2014 Ga. Laws, p. 4454, § 1; Ord. of 11-7-2013, § 3.25)
Sec. 3.30. - City Attorney.
The Council shall appoint a City attorney and shall provide for the payment of such attorney for services rendered to the City. The City attorney shall be responsible for representing and defending the City in all litigation in which the City is a party; may be the prosecuting officer in the recorder's court; shall attend the meetings of the Council as directed; shall advise the Council, mayor, and other officers and employees of the City concerning legal aspects of the City's affairs; and shall perform such other duties as maybe required of him by virtue of his position as City attorney.
DIVISION 2. - ADMINISTRATIVE OFFICERS

Sec. 3.40. - City Clerk.
The Council may appoint a City Clerk to keep a journal of the proceedings of the City Council and to maintain in a safe place all records and documents pertaining to the affairs of the City, and to perform such other duties as may be required by law or as the Council may direct.
Sec. 3.41. - Tax Collector.
The Council may appoint a tax collector to collect all taxes, licenses, fees and other monies belonging to the City subject to the provisions of this Charter and the ordinances of the City, and the tax collector shall diligently comply with and enforce all general laws of Georgia relating to the collection, sale, or foreclosure of taxes by municipalities.
Sec. 3.42. - City accountant.
The Council may appoint a City accountant to perform the duties of an accountant.
Sec. 3.43. - Consolidation of functions.
The Council may consolidate any two or more of the positions of City Clerk, City tax collector, and City accountant, or any other positions or may assign the functions of any one or more of such positions to the holder or holders of any other positions. The City Manager may also, with the approval of the City Council, perform all or any part of the functions of any of the positions or offices in lieu of appointing other persons to perform the same.
DIVISION 3. - PERSONNEL ADMINISTRATION

Sec. 3.50. - Position classification and pay plans.
The City Manager shall be responsible for the preparation of a position classification and pay plan which shall be submitted to the Council for approval. Said plans may apply to all employees of the City of Leesburg, and of any of its agencies and offices. When a pay plan has been adopted the Council shall not increase or decrease the salaries of individual employees except by amendment of said pay plan.
Sec. 3.51. - Personnel policies.
The City Manager shall present to the City Council for its adoption, rules and regulations consistent with this Charter concerning:
(1)
The method of employee selection and probationary periods of employment;
(2)
The administration of the position classification and pay plan, methods of promotion and application of service ratings thereto, and transfer of employees within the classification plan;
(3)
Hours of work, vacation, sick leave, and other leaves of absence, overtime pay, and the order and manner in which layoff shall be effected; and
(4)
Such other personnel policies as may be necessary to provide for adequate and systematic handling of the personnel affairs of the City of Leesburg.
ARTICLE IV. - ELECTIONS
DIVISION 1. - REPRESENTATION—GENERAL PROVISIONS

Sec. 4.10. - Regular elections; time for holding.
Repealed by 1981 Ga. Laws, p. 3583, § 4.
DIVISION 2. - CONDUCT OF ELECTIONS

Sec. 4.11. - Regular elections; time for holding.
On the Tuesday immediately following the first Monday in November 1981, an election shall be held for a mayor and six councilmen who shall take office on the first Tuesday in February 1982. Three councilmen, whose offices are hereby designated as Post 1, Post 2 and Post 3, respectively, shall serve for a term ending December 31, 1985, and three councilmen, whose offices are hereby designated Post 4, Post 5 and Post 6, respectively, shall serve for a term ending December 31, 1983. On the Tuesday immediately following the first Monday in November 1983, and on the Tuesday immediately following the first Monday in November every four years thereafter, an election shall be held for Post 4, Post 5 and Post 6, with said councilmen to take office on the first day in January following their election. On the Tuesday immediately following the first Monday in November 1985, and on the Tuesday immediately following the first Monday in November every four years thereafter, an election shall be held for a mayor and Post 1, Post 2 and Post 3 of the council who shall take office on the first day in January following their election.
(1981 Ga. Laws, p. 3583, § 4)
Sec. 4.20. - Applicability of general laws.
The procedures and requirements for election of all elected officials of the City of Leesburg as to primary, special or general elections shall be in conformity with the provisions of the Georgia Municipal Election Code approved April 4, 1968, (1968 Ga. Laws, p. 885) as now or hereafter amended.
Sec. 4.21. - Special elections; vacancies.
In the event that the office of mayor or councilman shall become vacant for any cause whatsoever, the Council or those remaining shall order a special election to fill the balance of the unexpired term of such office; provided, however, if such vacancy occurs within 6 months of the expiration of the term of office of the mayor or any councilman, said vacancy in office shall be filled by appointment by the remaining members of the Council. Both special elections and qualifications of candidates therefor shall conform to the applicable provisions of this Charter and the Georgia Municipal Election Code and Title 34A of the Code of Georgia of 1933 as now or hereafter amended.
ARTICLE V. - MISCELLANEOUS

Sec. 5.10. - Specific repealer.
An Act entitled: "An Act to establish a new charter for the Town of Leesburg, in the County of Lee, State of Georgia, to grant certain privileges to said town; to repeal all Acts in conflict; to define the limits of the same; to provide for the election of officers; to prescribe their duties, rights and powers; and for other purposes.", approved December 21, 1898 (1898 Ga. Laws, p. 204), as amended, is hereby repealed in its entirety.
Sec. 5.11. - Laws in conflict with Act repealed.
All laws and parts of laws in conflict with this Act are hereby repealed.
