Chapter 14 - BUILDINGS AND BUILDING REGULATIONS[1]
ARTICLE I. - IN GENERAL

Secs. 14-1—14-30. - Reserved.
ARTICLE II. - BUILDING AND CONSTRUCTION CODES[2]

Sec. 14-31. - Adoption.
The following technical building and construction codes are adopted by reference and may be amended for later editions as required by the Georgia Uniform Codes Act, O.C.G.A. § 8-2-25:
(1)
Standard Building Code (SBCCI).
(2)
National Electrical Code as published by the National Fire Protection Association.
(3)
Standard Gas Code (SBCCI).
(4)
Standard Mechanical Code (SBCCI).
(5)
Standard Plumbing Code (SBCCI).
(6)
Council of American Building Officials' One- and Two-Family Dwelling Code, with the exception of part V—Plumbing (chapters 20—25) of such code.
(7)
Georgia State Energy Code for Buildings as adopted by the State Building Administrative Board pursuant to 1978 Ga. Laws, page 2212, as such code exists on September 30, 1991.
(8)
Standard Fire Prevention Code (SBCCI).
(9)
Standard Housing Code (SBCCI).
(10)
Standard Swimming Pool Code (SBCCI).
(11)
Standard Unsafe Building Abatement Code (SBCCI).
(12)
Schedule of permit fees in appendices of such codes.
(Code 1984, §§ 12-101—12-105; Ord. No. 85-002, 9-23-85)
State Law reference— Minimum state construction codes, O.C.G.A. § 8-2-25; enforcement of minimum state construction codes, O.C.G.A. § 8-2-26.
Sec. 14-32. - Permit and inspection fees; other charges.
Permit and inspection fees and any other charges imposed or due under the various construction codes adopted by this article shall be as provided in the schedule of fees and charges on file in the office of the city clerk.
(Code 1984, §§ 11-500, 12-106; Ord. No. 87-026, 10-26-87; Ord. No. 89-020, 11-27-89; Ord. No. 94-008, 12-27-94)
Secs. 14-33—14-60. - Reserved.
ARTICLE III. - UNFIT BUILDINGS AND STRUCTURES[3]

Sec. 14-61. - Definitions.
The following words, terms and phrases, when used in this article, shall have the meanings ascribed to them in this section, except where the context clearly indicates a different meaning:
Closing means securing and causing a dwelling, building or structure to be vacated.
Dwellings, buildings or structures means any building or structure, or part thereof, used and occupied for human habitation, commercial, industrial or business uses, or intended to be so used, and includes any accessory buildings, appurtenances belonging thereto or usually enjoyed therewith, and also includes any building or structure of any design. The term "dwellings, buildings or structures" shall not mean or include any farm, any building or structure located on a farm, or any agricultural facility or other building or structure used for the production, growing, raising, harvesting, storage or processing of crops, livestock, poultry or other farm products.
Parties in interest means persons in possession of property and all individuals, associations and corporations who have an interest of record in the city where the property is located in a dwelling, building or structure, including executors, administrators, guardians and trustees.
Public authority means any housing authority or any officer who is in charge of any department or branch of the government of the city relating to health, fire or building regulations or to other activities concerning dwellings, buildings or structures in the city.
Public officer means the officer who is authorized by ordinances adopted under O.C.G.A. §§ 41-2-7—41-2-17 to exercise the powers prescribed by such ordinances or any agent of such officer.
Repair means closing a dwelling, building or structure or the cleaning or removal of debris, trash and other materials present and accumulated which create a health or safety hazard in or about any dwelling, building or structure.
(Ord. No. 90-002, § 1, 4-9-90)
Cross reference— Definitions generally, § 1-2.
Sec. 14-62. - Public officer—Appointment.
The mayor and council shall appoint a public officer to exercise the powers prescribed in section 14-63.
(Ord. No. 90-002, § 2, 4-9-90)
Sec. 14-63. - Same—Powers.
The public officer is authorized to exercise such powers as may be necessary or convenient to carry out and effectuate the purpose and provisions of this article, including the following powers in addition to others granted in this article:
(1)
Investigate the dwelling conditions in the city in order to determine which dwellings, buildings or structures therein are unfit for human habitation or are unfit for current commercial, industrial or business use;
(2)
Administer oaths and affirmations, to examine witnesses and to receive evidence;
(3)
Enter upon premises for the purpose of making examinations; provided, however, that such entries shall be made in such manner as to cause the least possible inconvenience to the persons in possession;
(4)
Appoint and fix the duties of such officers, agents and employees as he deems necessary to carry out the purposes of this article; and
(5)
Delegate any of his functions and powers under this article to such officers and agents as he may designate.
(Ord. No. 90-002, § 3, 4-9-90)
Sec. 14-64. - Determination that dwelling, building or structure is unfit.
The public officer may determine, under existing ordinances, that a dwelling, building or structure is unfit for human habitation or is unfit for its current commercial, industrial or business use if he finds that conditions exist in such building, dwelling or structure which are dangerous or injurious to the health, safety or morals of the occupants of such dwelling, building or structure; of the occupants of neighborhood dwellings, buildings or structures; or of other residents of the city. Such conditions may include the following (without limiting the generality of the foregoing):
(1)
Defects therein increasing the hazards of fire, accidents or other calamities;
(2)
Lack of adequate ventilation, light or sanitary facilities;
(3)
Dilapidation;
(4)
Disrepair;
(5)
Structural defects; and
(6)
Uncleanliness.
(Ord. No. 90-002, § 4, 4-9-90)
Sec. 14-65. - Issuance of complaint; notice; hearing.
(a)
Charges that any dwelling, building or structure in the city is unfit for human habitation or is unfit for its current commercial, industrial or business use may be brought in two ways:
(1)
A request making such charges may be filed with the public officer by a public authority or by at least five residents of the city; or
(2)
The public officer may bring such charges on his own motion.
(b)
The public officer shall, if his preliminary investigation discloses a basis for such charges, issue and cause to be served upon the owner of and any parties in interest in such dwelling, building or structure a complaint. The complaint shall state the specific charges and shall contain a notice that a hearing will be held before the public officer (or his designated agent) at a place within the city in which the property is located. The hearing shall be fixed for not less than ten days nor more than 30 days after the serving of the complaint. The owner and any parties in interest shall have the right to file an answer to the complaint and to appear in person, or otherwise, and give testimony at the place and time fixed in the complaint. The rules of evidence prevailing in the courts of law or equity shall not be controlling in hearings before the public officer. Service of complaints upon parties in interest and owners of unfit buildings or structures shall be made in accordance with O.C.G.A. § 41-2-12.
(Ord. No. 90-002, § 5, 4-9-90)
Sec. 14-66. - Determination; issuance of order.
(a)
After such notice and hearing, if the public officer determines that the dwelling, building or structure under consideration is unfit for human habitation or is unfit for its current commercial, industrial or business use, he shall state in writing his findings of fact in support of such a determination and shall issue and cause to be served upon the owner thereof an order as follows:
(1)
If the repair, alteration or improvement of the dwelling, building or structure can be made at a reasonable cost in relation to the value of the dwelling, building or structure so as to render it fit for human habitation or for current commercial, industrial or business use, the owner or parties in interest shall be ordered to repair, alter or improve such dwelling or to vacate and close the dwelling, building or structure as a human habitation within the time specified in the order.
(2)
If the repair, alteration or improvement of the dwelling, building or structure cannot be made at a reasonable cost in relation to the value of the dwelling, building or structure, the owner or parties in interest shall be ordered, within the time specified in the order, to remove and demolish such dwelling, building or structure.
(3)
In no event shall the mayor and council require removal or demolition of any dwelling, building or structure except upon a finding that the cost of repair, alteration or improvement thereof exceeds one-half the value such dwelling, building or structure will have when repaired to satisfy the minimum requirements of this article.
(b)
Service of orders upon parties in interest and owners of unfit buildings or structures shall be made in accordance with O.C.G.A. § 41-2-12.
(Ord. No. 90-002, § 6, 4-9-90)
Sec. 14-67. - Failure to comply with order; abatement by city.
(a)
If the owner or parties in interest fail to comply with an order to vacate and close or demolish the dwelling, building or structure, the public officer may cause such dwelling, building or structure to be repaired, altered or improved, or to be vacated and closed or demolished. The public officer may cause to be posted on the main entrance of any building, dwelling or structure so closed a placard with the following words: "This building is unfit for human habitation or commercial, industrial or business use; the use or occupation of this building for human habitation or for commercial, industrial or business use is prohibited and unlawful."
(b)
If the owner fails to comply with any order to remove or demolish the dwelling, building or structure, the public officer may cause such dwelling, building or structure to be removed or demolished upon order of the mayor and council. The mayor and council shall by ordinance order the public officer to proceed to effectuate the purpose of this article with respect to the particular property which the public officer has found to be unfit for human habitation or unfit for its current commercial, industrial or business use. Such property shall be described in the ordinance.
(Ord. No. 90-002, § 7, 4-9-90)
Sec. 14-68. - Payment of costs for vacating and closing or removal or demolition of dwellings, buildings or structures.
(a)
Lien. The amount of the cost of vacating and closing or removing or demolition by the public officer shall be a lien against the real property upon which such cost was incurred. Such lien shall attach to the real property upon the payment of all costs of demolition by the city and the filing of an itemized statement of the total sum of such costs by the public officer in the office of the city clerk on a lien docket maintained by such clerk for such purposes.
(b)
Sale of materials from removal or demolishment. If the dwelling, building or structure is removed or demolished by the public officer, he shall sell the materials of such dwellings, buildings or structures and shall credit the proceeds of such sale against the cost of the removal or demolition. Any balance remaining shall be deposited in the county superior court by the public officer. It shall be secured in such manner as may be directed by such court and shall be disbursed by such court to the persons found to be entitled thereto by final order or decree of such court.
(c)
Enforcement of collection according to state law. The city shall enforce the collection of any amount due on such lien for removal or demolition of dwellings, buildings or structures only in the manner set forth in O.C.G.A. § 41-2-9(7)(A)—(C).
(Ord. No. 90-002, § 8, 4-9-90)
