Chapter 2 - ADMINISTRATION[1]
ARTICLE I. - IN GENERAL

Sec. 2-1. - Exercise of governmental authority.
The corporate governmental powers of the city shall be exercised by the mayor and council in the manner provided by state law, the city Charter and by the provisions of this chapter and other applicable provisions of this Code.
(Code 1984, § 3-101)
Sec. 2-2. - Inspection of records.
All municipal records, except those which by order of a state court or by law are prohibited from being open to public inspection, shall be open for personal inspection by any citizen of the state during the hours of operation of the administrative service.
(Code 1984, § 3-102(3))
State Law reference— Records management plans for local governments, O.C.G.A. § 50-18-90; records management plan required, O.C.G.A. § 50-18-99(e).
Sec. 2-3. - Returned check fees.
The city establishes a returned check fee administrative charge as provided in the schedule of fees and charges on file in the office of the city clerk, for any and all departments for the city that a returned check has been issued against. The city further establishes that after two returned checks, within a 12-month period, have been issued to the city that the city refuses to accept any further checks from that individual on that checking account or any other checking account for 12 months from the date of the check.
(Ord. No. 2000-001, 2-4-00)
Secs. 2-4—2-30. - Reserved.
ARTICLE II. - MAYOR AND COUNCIL[2]
DIVISION 1. - GENERALLY

Sec. 2-31. - Qualifications for office.
Any person whose principal place of residence is within the corporate limits of the city and who is both a qualified voter of the city and at least 18 years of age at the time of the election shall be eligible for the office of mayor or councilperson. Should the mayor or councilperson cease to maintain his principal place of residence within the city during his term of office, his office shall thereby become vacant.
(Code 1984, § 3-201)
Sec. 2-32. - Vacancies.
In case of a vacancy in the office of mayor or councilperson, this city council shall appoint a qualified person to fill the position until the next regular city election.
(Code 1984, § 3-202)
Secs. 2-33—2-50. - Reserved.
DIVISION 2. - MEETINGS[3]

Sec. 2-51. - Time and place of regular meetings.
The council shall meet in regular session on the second and fourth Mondays of each month at the hour appointed by the mayor and council. When any such Monday is a holiday, the regular meeting shall be held on Tuesday at the same hour unless otherwise provided for by motion. The place of meeting shall be the city hall, and no meetings shall be held at any other place unless otherwise provided for by motion.
(Code 1984, § 3-303)
Sec. 2-52. - Special meetings.
(a)
When notified of the calling of a special meeting of the council, the clerk shall give notice thereof as provided in the Charter. Such notice shall state the time, place and business to be transacted.
(b)
No appropriation of money shall be made at a special meeting except by unanimous consent of the members present.
Sec. 2-53. - Call to order; roll call.
The mayor shall take the chair at the hour appointed for the council to meet, and shall immediately call the members to order. The roll shall then be called by the clerk, who shall enter in the journal the names of the members present.
(Code 1984, § 3-304(1), (2))
Sec. 2-54. - Actions in absence of quorum.
In case a number of members fewer than a quorum shall convene at a regular or special meeting of the council, the majority of the members present are authorized to send any person for any or all absent members, as such majority of members shall agree. If a quorum cannot be obtained, the meeting may be adjourned.
(Code 1984, § 3-304(3))
Sec. 2-55. - Parliamentarian.
The council may appoint the city attorney, or some other officer or employee of the city, to serve as parliamentarian. Only the parliamentarian shall be called upon in the first instance to decide upon parliamentary rules.
Sec. 2-56. - Attendance at meetings by city officers and employees.
In addition to the clerk and parliamentarian, the city administrator shall regularly attend all meetings of the council, but all or any other officers shall be bound to attend any meeting upon direction of the mayor or mayor pro tem or by special resolution of council to that effect.
Sec. 2-57. - Preservation of order and decorum.
(a)
During council meetings, councilpersons shall neither by conversation or otherwise delay or interrupt the proceedings, nor refuse to obey the orders of the mayor or the rules of the council. Every councilperson desiring to speak shall address the chair and, upon recognition by the mayor, shall confine himself to the question under debate and shall avoid all personalities and indecorous language. Every councilperson desiring to question the administrative staff shall address his question to the mayor, who shall be entitled either to answer the inquiries himself or to designate some member of his staff for that purpose. A councilperson, once recognized, shall not be interrupted while speaking unless called to order by the mayor or unless a point of order is raised by another member, or unless the speaker chooses to yield to questions from another member. If a councilperson is called to order while he is speaking, he shall cease speaking immediately until the question of order is determined. If ruled to be in order, he shall be permitted to proceed. If ruled to be not in order, he shall remain silent or shall alter his remarks so as to comply with rules of the council. All members of the council shall accord the utmost courtesy to each other, to city employees and to members of the public appearing before the council, and shall refrain at all times from rude and derogatory remarks, reflections as to integrity, abusive comments and statements as to motives and personalities. Councilpersons shall confine their questions to the particular matters before the assembly and in debate shall confine their remarks to the issues before the council. Members shall be removed from the meeting for failure to comply with decisions of the mayor or for continued violations of the rules of the council. If the mayor fails to act, any member may move to require him to enforce the rules, and affirmative vote of a majority of the council shall require the mayor to act.
(b)
Members of the administrative staff and employees of the city shall observe the same rules of procedure and decorum applicable to members of the council. Any nonmember of the council desiring to address the council shall be recognized by the chair, shall state his name for the record, and shall limit his remarks to the matter under discussion. All remarks and questions addressed to the council shall be addressed to the council as a whole and not to any individual member thereof. No staff member other than the staff member having the floor shall enter into any discussion either directly or indirectly without permission of the mayor.
(c)
Members of the public attending council meetings also shall observe the same rules of propriety, decorum and good conduct applicable to members of the council. Any person making personal, impertinent and slanderous remarks or who becomes boisterous while addressing the council or while attending a council meeting shall be removed from the room at the direction of the mayor, and such person shall be barred from further audience before the council. Unauthorized remarks from the audience, stamping of feet, whistles, yells and similar demonstrations shall not be permitted by the mayor, who shall direct the removal of such offenders from the room. Aggravated cases shall be prosecuted on appropriate complaint signed by the mayor. In case the mayor shall fail to act, any member of the council may move to require him to act to enforce the rules, and the affirmative vote of the majority of the council shall require the mayor to act.
Sec. 2-58. - Limitation of debate.
(a)
A member of the council, having spoken once on the original question, may be permitted to speak again only:
(1)
To clear a matter of fact;
(2)
To explain himself in some material part of his speech; or
(3)
With regard to the matter of words of the question, keeping himself to these only, and not going into the merits of it, and not falling into the matter itself.
(b)
On an amendment being moved, a member who has spoken to the main question may speak again to the amendment.
Sec. 2-59. - Appeal from rulings of mayor.
Any councilperson may appeal to the council from a ruling of the mayor. If the appeal is seconded, the member making the appeal may briefly state his reason for the appeal, and the mayor may briefly explain his ruling, but there shall be no debate on the appeal and no other member shall participate in the discussion. The mayor shall then put the question: "Shall the appeal be sustained?" If a majority of the members present vote "aye," the ruling of the chair is overruled.
Sec. 2-60. - Addressing council on question of personal privilege.
The right of a councilperson to address the council on a question of personal privilege shall be limited to cases in which his integrity, character or motives are assailed, questioned or impugned.
Sec. 2-61. - Order of business.
The following shall be the order of business at council meetings:
(1)
Roll call.
(2)
Adoption of minutes of previous meeting.
(3)
Communications, petitions and invoices.
(4)
Reports of committees.
(5)
Unfinished business.
(6)
New business.
(7)
Adjournment.
(Code 1984, § 3-304(4))
Sec. 2-62. - Precedence of motions.
When a question is under debate at a council meeting, no motion shall be received but to adjourn, to lay on the table, for the previous question, to postpone to a day certain, to commit, to amend, or to postpone indefinitely, which several motions shall have precedence in the order they stand arranged in this section. The motion for adjournment shall always be in order, and be decided without debate.
Sec. 2-63. - Committee of the whole.
When the council shall decide to go into committee of the whole, without objection the regular officers shall continue to serve; otherwise, the council shall appoint a chairman to preside, and the mayor shall leave the chair. The rules of the council, as far as applicable, shall be observed in the committee of the whole, except that no limit shall be placed on the frequency of speaking, that the yeas and nays shall not be taken, and that a motion to rise and report progress shall always be in order and shall be decided without debate.
Sec. 2-64. - Executive session.
The mayor and council may at any time, upon call thereof by the presiding officer or upon motion duly carried by a councilperson, meet in executive session. Attendance at such sessions shall be limited to the mayor and councilpersons and such invitees as shall be invited with the unanimous consent of the mayor and council.
(Code 1984, § 3-304(6))
Sec. 2-65. - Statement of motions by chair.
When a motion is made and seconded at a council meeting, it shall be stated by the chair before debate. Any member may demand that it be put in writing.
Sec. 2-66. - Motion to adjourn.
(a)
A motion to adjourn a council meeting shall be in order at any time, except as follows:
(1)
When repeated without intervening business or discussion;
(2)
When made as an interruption of a member while speaking;
(3)
When the previous question has been ordered; and
(4)
While a vote is being taken.
(b)
A motion to adjourn is debatable only as to the time to which the meeting is adjourned.
Sec. 2-67. - Motion to lay on the table.
A motion before the council to lay on the table shall preclude all amendments or debate of the subject under consideration. If the motion shall prevail, the consideration of the subject may be resumed only upon motion of a member voting with the majority and with the consent of two-thirds of the members present.
Sec. 2-68. - Moving the previous question.
When the previous question is moved at a council meeting, and seconded by one other member, it shall be put as follows: "Shall the main question be now put?" There shall then be no further amendment or debate, but, following an affirmative vote, pending amendments shall be put in their order before the main question. If the question: "Shall the main question be now put" be decided in the negative, the main question remains before the council.
Sec. 2-69. - Division of question.
If the question before the council contains two or more divisible propositions, the mayor may, and upon request of a councilperson shall, divide such question.
Sec. 2-70. - Amendments.
(a)
It shall be in order for the council to amend an ordinance at any time when not in the hands of a committee.
(b)
On an amendment to strike out and insert, the paragraph to be amended shall first be read as it stands, then the words proposed to be stricken out and those to be inserted shall be read, and finally the paragraph as it would stand if so amended shall be read.
(c)
An amendment modifying the intention of a motion shall be in order, but an amendment relating to a different matter shall not be in order.
State Law reference— Authority to adopt ordinances, rules and regulations, O.C.G.A. § 36-35-3.
Sec. 2-71. - Motion to postpone.
All motions to postpone before the council, excepting a motion to postpone indefinitely, may be amended as to time. If a motion to postpone indefinitely is carried, the principal question shall be declared lost.
Sec. 2-72. - Reconsideration of action.
After the decision on any question, any member of the council who voted with the majority may move a reconsideration of any action at the same or the next succeeding meeting; provided, however, that a resolution authorizing or relating to any contract may be reconsidered at any time before the final execution thereof. A motion to reconsider shall require the same number of votes as is required to adopt an ordinance or resolution. After a motion for reconsideration has once been acted on, no other motion for a reconsideration thereof shall be made without unanimous consent.
Sec. 2-73. - Special orders.
It shall require the consent of a majority of the members present at a council meeting to make any subject a special order.
Sec. 2-74. - Unsigned communications.
Unsigned communications shall not be introduced in the council.
Sec. 2-75. - Tie votes.
In the case of a tie vote of the council where the mayor's vote does not break the tie, the proposal shall be considered lost.
Sec. 2-76. - Rules of order generally.
(a)
Every question of order at a council meeting shall be decided by the chair without debate, subject to an appeal of the council, and the chair may call for the consent of the council on any question of order. If repeated calls do not produce order, the member is to be called by name.
(b)
Where the private interests of a member are concerned in a question, he is to withdraw, and when such an interest has appeared his voice is to be disallowed.
(c)
No motion shall be debated or put until the motion is seconded. It is then, and not until then, in possession of council, and cannot be withdrawn but by leave of council.
(d)
When a proposition is moved which is useless or inexpedient, the previous question is introduced for suppressing, for that time, the motion and its discussion, in which case the main question is to be put immediately without any further debate, and in the form in which it then exists; but, as the previous question applies that day only, and it may recur again, if it is desired to suppress entirely, the motion shall be to postpone indefinitely.
(e)
When a proper motion is made, but information wanted, the motion is to postpone to a day certain.
(f)
When a matter is introduced claiming present attention, but which it is desired to reserve for a more suitable occasion, the order is to lay on the table, and it may then be called for at any time. If the proposition or matter needs further consideration, the order shall be to refer to a committee, but if it needs but a few and simple amendments, the council shall proceed to consider and amend it at once.
(g)
On motion to amend an ordinance, any member may move to commit it or refer it to a committee, and the question for commitment shall be first put. An amendment to an amendment is admitted, but to amend an amendment to an amendment is not.
(h)
The question is to be put first on the affirmative and then on the negative side.
(i)
When a question has been moved and seconded, and been put by the chair in the affirmative and negative, it becomes a full question, and cannot be debated afterwards, unless under motion for reconsideration.
(j)
The consequences of a measure may be reprobated in strong terms, but to arraign the motives of those who propose or advocate it is a personality and against order.
(k)
Any member shall be heard at any time on a matter of personal privilege, and such request to be heard shall be given precedence.
Sec. 2-77. - Use of Robert's Rules of Order.
Points and procedures not provided for in this division shall be governed by Robert's Rules of Order, Newly Revised, on the effective date of the ordinance from which this section derives, a copy of which shall be kept on file in the office of the clerk and made available for use at council meetings.
(Code 1984, § 3-304)
Secs. 2-78—2-95. - Reserved.
DIVISION 3. - LEGISLATION[4]

Sec. 2-96. - Legislative authority generally.
The city council shall exercise the legislative functions of the city, and may pass any ordinance or resolution that it deems best for the government of the city; provided, however, that such ordinance or resolution is not in conflict with the Charter of the city, the constitution or the laws of the state, or the Constitution or the laws of the United States.
(Code 1984, § 3-205)
Sec. 2-97. - Ordinances, resolutions, contracts and interlocal agreements.
Unless otherwise provided in this Code, all ordinances, resolutions, contracts and interlocal agreements of the city shall be prepared, approved, introduced and adopted in the manner provided in this division.
(Code 1984, § 3-304(5))
Sec. 2-98. - Preparation of ordinances.
Whenever possible, all ordinances shall be prepared by the city attorney.
(Code 1984, § 3-304(5)(a))
Sec. 2-99. - Introduction and adoption of ordinances, resolutions and other matters.
(a)
Ordinances, resolutions and other matters of subjects requiring action by the council must be introduced and sponsored by a member of the council.
(b)
No ordinance shall be put on its final passage on the same day on which it is introduced, except that where an emergency exists and public health and safety require it, an ordinance containing a full statement of the facts and reasons for the emergency may be made effective upon its adoption, if approved by the council.
(c)
Each ordinance shall be read at two consecutive meetings of the mayor and council. This subsection may be waived by two-thirds of those voting upon the question of waiver.
(d)
No ordinance shall relate to more than one subject, which shall be clearly expressed in its title, and no ordinance, or section of such ordinance, shall be amended or repealed unless the new ordinance contains the title of the ordinance or section amended or repealed, and when practicable, all ordinances shall be introduced as amendments to this Code.
(e)
An ordinance, resolution or contract shall be deemed adopted or approved when it receives an affirmative vote of a majority of the whole council.
(Code 1984, § 3-304(5)(b))
Sec. 2-100. - Effective date of ordinances.
No ordinance shall take effect until ten days after its adoption unless deemed an emergency measure, in which case the ordinance shall take effect immediately.
(Code 1984, § 3-304(5)(c))
Secs. 2-101—2-115. - Reserved.
ARTICLE III. - OFFICERS AND EMPLOYEES[5]
DIVISION 1. - GENERALLY

Sec. 2-116. - Officers.
Each officer shall perform all duties required of his office by state law, the Charter, and this Code, and such other duties as may properly be required by the mayor and council.
(Code 1984, § 3-102(1))
Sec. 2-117. - Mayor.
The mayor shall perform those duties and exercise those powers prescribed for such office in the city Charter, this Code, and state law.
(Code 1984, § 3-301(1))
Sec. 2-118. - City clerk.
The city clerk shall perform those duties and exercise those powers prescribed for such office by the mayor and council:
(1)
The clerk shall perform the duties required by this section and other sections of the city Charter.
(2)
In addition to such duties, the clerk shall:
a.
Publish all legal notices required by law or ordinance;
b.
Notify the council or other appointing authority of the impending expiration of the term of office of members of boards and commissions; such notice to be given at least 30 days before such expiration; and
c.
Be the custodian of the official seal of the city.
(Code 1984, § 3-302)
Sec. 2-119. - City attorney.
(a)
Appointment and qualifications. The mayor shall appoint a city attorney; such appointee must be a member in good standing of the state bar.
(b)
Powers and duties. The city attorney shall:
(1)
Be responsible for representing and defending the city in all litigation in which the city is a part;
(2)
Be the judge in the municipal court; and
(3)
Advise the mayor, council and other officers and employees of the city concerning legal aspects of the city's affairs. The city attorney shall be paid such salary as fixed by council.
(Code 1984, § 3-303)
Sec. 2-120. - Personnel policy adopted.
There is hereby adopted by the mayor and council, for the purpose of establishing a comprehensive personnel management system, the manual entitled "The City of Rincon Personnel Policy Manual," as revised from time to time, an official copy of which is on file in the office of the city clerk. Copies of the personnel policies are available to the city hall for review by all employees.
(Code 1984, § 3-304)
Sec. 2-121. - Equal employment opportunity; affirmative action policy statement.
(a)
The city declares and reaffirms a policy of equal employment opportunity and nondiscrimination in providing all services to the public. Employment practices in this city shall at all times adhere to the spirit and the letter of federal, state and local laws, rules and regulations which guarantee equal employment opportunity to all persons without regard to race, color, religion, sex, national origin, physical handicap or age.
(b)
Members of minority groups will receive impartial consideration for initial employment and promotion; will possess equal standing and security as a city employee; and will have equal opportunity to receive training, develop skills and advance. Such opportunities shall be limited only by an individual's abilities and the requirements of the work force.
(c)
All activities, facilities, services and training sponsored, operated or participated in by the city shall be available to all employees without discrimination based on race, color, religion, age, sex, national origin or physical handicap.
(d)
Pursuant to the Civil Rights Act of 1964, as amended by the Equal Employment Opportunity Act of 1972, the mayor and council cause this affirmative action policy statement to be adopted as the official statement of the city, covering all department employees and applicants for employment.
(Code 1984, § 3-305)
Sec. 2-122. - Oaths.
All officers and employees required by Charter or some other provision of law to take an oath shall, before entering upon the discharge of their respective duties, take and subscribe the following oath before an officer authorized by law to administer oaths:
"I solemnly swear (or affirm) that I will support the Constitution and will obey the laws of the United States and of the state; that I will, in all respects, observe the provisions of the Charter and ordinances of the City of Rincon; and that I will faithfully discharge the duties of the office of ____________ ."
(Code 1984, § 3-103)
Sec. 2-123. - Bonds.
Except as otherwise provided by law, the mayor and council may require any department head, city official or employee, before entering upon the discharge of his duties, to give good and sufficient bond in any reasonable amount decided by the mayor and council. Such bond shall be payable to the city for the faithful performance of duties and to secure against corruption, malfeasance, misappropriations or unlawful expenditures in office. The surety bonds shall be obtained from a surety company licensed to do business in the state and approved by the mayor and council. The premiums thereon shall be paid by the city.
(Code 1984, § 3-104)
Sec. 2-124. - Compensation.
Each officer and employee of the city shall receive such compensation as may be provided from time to time by resolution.
(Code 1984, § 3-105)
Secs. 2-125—2-140. - Reserved.
DIVISION 2. - DEFENSE OF OFFICERS[6]

Sec. 2-141. - Indemnification of officers and employees.
The duly elected members of the city council do hereby ordain that the mayor and councilpersons, officers, administrators, officials, and attorneys of the city shall be indemnified, and such city council shall indemnify and hold harmless the mayor and councilpersons, officers, administrators, officials, attorneys at law and any other person acting for the city who was or is a party to any threatened, pending or completed action, suit or proceedings, whether civil, criminal, administrative or investigative, in which it is alleged that he acted either negligently or malevolently, other than an action by or in the right of the city council, by reason of the fact that such person, member, employee, administrator, officer, attorney at law or otherwise was acting under color of authority of the city council or was serving at the request of the city council as a member, employee, agent, attorney at law in any endeavor, proceeding or other enterprise, against expenses (including attorneys' fees), judgments, fines and amounts paid in the settlement, actually and reasonably incurred by such person, as above set out, in connection with such action, suit or proceedings if the same acted in a manner he reasonably believed to be in or not opposed to the best interest of the city council; and provided further that such person had no reasonable cause to believe that such conduct was unlawful.
(Ord. No. 86-004, § 1, 5-12-86)
Sec. 2-142. - Termination of action, suit or proceeding not to create presumption of unlawful action.
The termination of any action, suit or proceedings by judgment, order, settlement, conviction or upon a plea of nolo contendere or its equivalent, shall not, of itself, create a presumption that the individual did not act in a manner that was reasonably believed to be in or not opposed to the best interest of the city council and, with respect to any criminal action or proceeding, did not have reasonable cause to believe that such conduct was lawful.
(Ord. No. 86-004, § 2, 5-12-86)
Sec. 2-143. - Insurance coverage.
The city council shall ensure that appropriate insurance coverage is maintained in order to afford the protections and benefits as contained in this division, and the premiums and expenses therefor shall be borne by the city council.
(Ord. No. 86-004, § 3, 5-12-86)
Sec. 2-144. - Guarantee of protection.
In any event, whether insurance protection is in effect or not, the city council shall guarantee that every employee, member, administrator, officer, including attorneys at law, shall be provided such protection, as set out in this division, if such person acted in good faith and in a manner he reasonably believed to be in or not opposed to the best interest of the city council. Such indemnity shall extend to all expenses, settlements and judgments reasonably incurred by the individual in connection with the defense and adjudication of such action.
(Ord. No. 86-004, § 4, 5-12-86)
Secs. 2-145—2-160. - Reserved.
ARTICLE IV. - DEPARTMENTS[7]
DIVISION 1. - GENERALLY

Sec. 2-161. - Organization.
The administrative service of the city shall be comprised of the following departments and department heads:
EXPAND
(1) Central services ..... City clerk
(2) Finance ..... Finance director
(3) Police department ..... Chief of police
(4) Parks ..... Utilities director
(5) Public works ..... Utilities director
(6) Building and zoning ..... Building official
(7) Fire department ..... Fire chief
  (Code 1984, § 3-401)
Sec. 2-162. - Heads.
All department heads shall:
(1)
Be responsible to the mayor and council for the effective administration of their respective departments and all activities assigned thereto;
(2)
Keep informed as to the latest practices in their particular field and inaugurate, with the approval of the mayor, such new practices as appear to be of benefit to the service and public;
(3)
Submit reports of the activities of their respective departments to the mayor and council as requested;
(4)
Maintain records and reports in sufficient detail to furnish all information necessary for proper control of departmental activities;
(5)
Have power, when authorized by the mayor and council, to appoint and remove, subject to personnel regulations, all subordinates under him; and
(6)
Be responsible for proper maintenance of all city property and equipment used in their respective departments.
(Code 1984, § 3-102(2))
Secs. 2-163—2-180. - Reserved.
DIVISION 2. - PUBLIC WORKS DEPARTMENT

Sec. 2-181. - Composition.
The public works department shall consist of a superintendent, who shall be the head of the department, and all officers and employees assigned thereto by the city council and its designee.
(Code 1984, § 3-402(1))
Sec. 2-182. - Superintendent—Appointment.
The public works superintendent shall be appointed by the city council and shall have control and supervision over all officers and employees assigned to the department, subject to the control of the city council or its designee.
(Code 1984, § 3-402(2))
Sec. 2-183. - Same—Duties.
The public works superintendent shall have the following duties:
(1)
Have charge of and be responsible for the care, maintenance and operation of the city water distribution system, the sanitary sewer system and disposal plant, and streets and lanes within the city;
(2)
Have charge of and be responsible for the condition of all motor vehicles and other equipment of the city, and of all buildings or places in which the same are housed or kept;
(3)
Be the custodian of all tools, equipment, and other personal property belonging to the city and not assigned to the care of any public officer of the city; and
(4)
Perform such additional duties as may be assigned to him from time to time by the city council or its designee.
(Code 1984, § 3-402(3))
Secs. 2-184—2-200. - Reserved.
ARTICLE V. - PURCHASING[8]

Sec. 2-201. - Purpose and scope of article.
The purpose of this article is to prescribe the manner in which the purchasing of materials, supplies, equipment and certain contractual services for the city shall be carried out by the purchasing agent of the city, as provided in this article.
(Ord. No. 95-005, § 1, 9-25-95)
Sec. 2-202. - Purchasing agent—City manager.
The city manager shall serve as the purchasing agent for the city.
(Ord. No. 95-005, § II, 9-25-95)
Sec. 2-203. - Same—Powers and duties.
The purchasing agent shall have the power and it shall be his duty to:
(1)
Purchase, procure and contract for, pursuant to the provisions of this article, and within the limitations imposed by law, and in accordance with any regulations adopted by the city council, all materials, supplies, equipment and contractual services requisitioned or otherwise authorized by the city council or by other authority of the purchasing agent.
(2)
Coordinate cooperative purchasing practices and contracts as approved by the city council with other municipalities and counties.
(3)
Establish purchasing regulations and other administrative rules as authorized by the city council under this article, or otherwise authorized by law, as may be necessary for the implementation of this article.
(Ord. No. 95-005, § III, 9-25-95)
Sec. 2-204. - Gifts and rebates.
The purchasing agent, all employees and all officials of any capacity whatsoever are expressly prohibited from accepting, directly or indirectly, from any person, company, firm or corporation or other entity from which or whom any purchase order, contract or expenditure is, or might be, awarded, any rebate, gift, money or anything of value whatsoever.
(Ord. No. 95-005, § IV, 9-25-95)
Sec. 2-205. - Competitive bidding required.
All purchases of and contracts for materials, supplies, equipment or services estimated to cost over $5,000.00 shall be based upon competitive bidding procedures specifically set forth in the purchasing regulations. Such purchasing regulations shall include: consultation and advice of the city attorney as and when deemed appropriate by the purchasing agent; preparation of formal contract by the city attorney as and when deemed necessary or appropriate by the purchasing agent; notice, specifications, sealed bids, public opening and bid deposits or bonds as required by law or as deemed necessary by the purchasing agent. All purchases of and contracts for materials, supplies, equipment or services, estimated to cost $5,000.00 or less, shall be based upon competitive bidding quotations, either in writing or by telephone.
(Ord. No. 95-005, § V, 9-25-95)
Sec. 2-206. - Purchase and contract awards.
Any purchase of and contract for materials, supplies, equipment or services requiring the bidding process shall be awarded by the purchasing agent upon consideration of the following:
(1)
The ability, capacity, and skill of the bidder to perform the contract or provide the service required, and to do so promptly or within the time specified;
(2)
The character, integrity, reputation, judgment, experience and efficiency of the bidder;
(3)
The quality of performance of prior contracts with the bidder including, without limitation, compliance by the bidder with laws and ordinances relating to the contract or service;
(4)
The sufficiency of the financial resources and financial ability of the bidder to perform the contract or provide the service;
(5)
The quality, availability and adaptability of the supplies or contractual services of the bidder to the particular use required;
(6)
The ability of the bidder to provide future maintenance and service for the use of the subject of the contract;
(7)
The number and scope of conditions attached to the bid; and
(8)
The bid price.
(Ord. No. 95-005, § VI, 9-25-95)
