ARTICLE IV. - CIGARETTE VENDING MACHINES, JUKEBOXES AND MECHANICAL AMUSEMENT DEVICES
DIVISION 1. - GENERALLY

Sec. 18-111. - Definitions.
The following words, terms and phrases, when used in this article, shall have the meanings ascribed to them in this section, except where the context clearly indicates a different meaning:
Cigarette vending machine means any automatic vending machine used for the sale of cigarettes and matches, and controlled by the insertion of coins. It shall not include machines or devices used solely for the vending of service, food or confections.
Jukebox means any music vending machine, contrivance or device which, upon the insertion of a coin, slug, token, plate, disc or key into any slot, crevice or other opening, or by the payment of any price, operates or may be operated for the emission of songs, music or similar amusement.
Mechanical amusement device means any machine which, upon the insertion of a coin, slug, token, plate or disc may be operated by the public generally for use as a game, entertainment or amusement, whether or not registering a score. It shall include such devices as marble machines, pinball machines, skill ball, mechanical grab machines, and all games, operations or transactions similar thereto under whatever name they may be indicated. The term is not intended to include any ball or pin game, marble game, mechanical baseball, football, pool, mechanical card game or any game of chance by which it is possible to obtain a payoff, prize or reward.
Person, firm, corporation or association means the following: any person, firm, corporation or association which owns any such machine; the person, firm, corporation or association in whose place of business any such machine is placed for use by the public; and the person, firm, corporation or association having control over such machine; provided, however, that the payment of such fee by any person, firm, corporation or association enumerated in this definition shall be deemed a compliance with this article.
(Code 1984, § 11-401)
Cross reference— Definitions generally, § 1-2.
Sec. 18-112. - Gambling devices.
Nothing in this article shall in any way be construed to authorize, license or permit any gambling devices whatsoever, or any mechanism that has been judicially determined to be a gambling device, or in any way contrary to law, or that may be contrary to any future laws of the state.
(Code 1984, § 11-402)
Sec. 18-113. - Limitation of floor space employed by amusement devices.
It shall be unlawful for any standard pool rooms or billiard parlors and bowling alleys, licensed as such, or any other place of business to employ more than ten percent of the total floor area of the establishment for the use of any pin ball machine, marble device, miniature bowling game, whether actuated by skill of the patron or whether actuated by chance, and whether expressly designed as a gambling device or whether expressly not designed as a gambling device.
(Code 1984, § 11-403)
Sec. 18-114. - Seizure and destruction of machines.
If the chief of police shall have reason to believe any mechanical amusement device is used as a gambling device, such machine may be seized by the police and impounded, and, if upon trial of the exhibitor for allowing it to be used as a gambling device, the exhibitor is found guilty, such machine shall be destroyed by the police.
(Code 1984, § 11-409)
Secs. 18-115—18-130. - Reserved.
DIVISION 2. - LICENSE

Sec. 18-131. - Required.
(a)
Fee; application. Any person, firm, corporation or association displaying for public patronage or keeping for operation any cigarette vending machine, jukebox, or mechanical amusement device shall be required to obtain a license from the city upon payment of a license fee. Application for such license shall be made to the city upon an application which shall contain the following information:
(1)
Name and address of the applicant, age, date and place of birth.
(2)
Prior convictions of the applicant, if any.
(3)
Place where machine or device is to be displayed or operated and the business conducted at that place.
(4)
Description of machine to be covered by the license, mechanical features, name of manufacturer and serial number.
(b)
Applicant qualifications. No license shall be issued to any applicant unless he shall be over 18 years of age and a citizen of the United States.
(Code 1984, § 11-404)
Sec. 18-132. - Inspection of location and assessment of applicant.
The application for a license shall be referred to the chief of police. The chief of police shall investigate the location wherein it is proposed to operate such machine, ascertain if the applicant is a person of good moral character, and either approve or disapprove the application.
(Code 1984, § 11-405)
Sec. 18-133. - Display.
(a)
The license provided for in this article shall be posted permanently and conspicuously at the location of the machine in the premises wherein the device is to be operated or maintained to be operated.
(b)
If the licensee shall move his place of business to another location within the city, the license may be transferred to such new location upon notification to the city, giving the street and number of the new location. Such change of location shall be approved by the chief of police.
(Code 1984, § 11-407)
Sec. 18-134. - Revocation.
Every license issued under this article is subject to the right, which is hereby expressly reserved, to revoke the same should the licensee, directly or indirectly, permit the operation of any vending machine, jukebox, or mechanical amusement device contrary to the provisions of this article, the ordinances of the city, or the law of the state. The license may be revoked by the mayor and council after written notice to the licensee, which notice shall specify the ordinance or law violation which the licensee is charged with, if after a hearing the licensee is found to be guilty of such violations. Ten days' notice of the hearing shall be given to the licensee. At such hearing, the licensee and his attorney may be present and submit evidence of witnesses to his defense.
(Code 1984, § 11-408)
Secs. 18-135—18-150. - Reserved.
