Chapter 10 - ANIMALS[1]
ARTICLE I. - IN GENERAL

Sec. 10-1. - Definitions.
The following words, terms and phrases, when used in this chapter, shall have the meanings ascribed to them in this section, except where the context clearly indicates a different meaning:
Animal means any living thing other than a plant or a human being.
Animal control officer/department means any person or agency designated by the city as a law enforcement officer or agency for the specific purpose of enforcement of this chapter, including any person or agency designated by the county as a law enforcement officer or agency for the specific purpose of enforcement of this chapter within the city.
Animal shelter means any facility operated by the city or its authorized agents for the purpose of impounding or caring for animals held under the authority of this chapter, including any facility operated by the county within or without the city pursuant to the provisions of this chapter.
Cat means any member of the feline family of any age.
Dog means any member of the canine family, regardless of age, including pet foxes, wolves, coyotes and not limited thereto.
Domestic animal means any animal kept for pleasure rather than utility.
Enclosure means any uncovered, enclosed parcel of land where animals or fowl are kept.
Guard dog means any dog which has been trained to attack persons and/or animals independently or upon command, and any dog which, while not so trained, has a known propensity to attack persons or animals and is used for the purpose of providing security to any person or premises.
Nuisance animal means any animal which:
(1)
Molests passersby or passing vehicles;
(2)
Attacks other animals;
(3)
Trespasses on school grounds, recreational areas or parks;
(4)
Is repeatedly at large;
(5)
Damages private or public property;
(6)
Barks, whines or howls in an excessive, continuous or untimely fashion; or
(7)
Constitutes a nuisance as the term is defined by the law of this state.
Owner means any person having a right of property in any animal; who keeps or harbors any animal or has its care; who permits any animal to remain on or about the premises owned, possessed or occupied by him; who voluntarily abandons an animal; or who runs an animal away after possessing or owning it.
Rabies certificate means a certificate signed by a licensed veterinarian bearing a license number, ownership, name, address, breed, color and sex of dog or cat, which shall be issued for each dog or cat vaccinated. The date of last vaccination of such dog or cat shall be clearly stated on such certificate, and a copy of such certificate shall be sent by such veterinarian to the animal control center.
Running at large means the conduct of any animal, other than a hunting dog while hunting, not confined by its owner or keeper within walls or a fence of proper design, controlled by a leash, or kept in some manner as to keep it from coming in contact with members of the public.
Unrestrained animal means any animal which is not secured by a leash or lead at least six feet in length, and not longer than 20 feet in length, or inside a fenced area within the real property limits of its owner.
Vaccinate/inoculate means to inject into the body of a dog or cat an approved antirabies vaccine prescribed by the state, such vaccine having a U.S. government license number approval stamped on the label of the vaccine container and which vaccine has been approved by the health department. Vaccine used for vaccination of dogs or cats against rabies shall be refrigerated and kept under proper conditions showing no signs of spoilage or otherwise being unfit for producing immunity against rabies.
Veterinarian means any person who has received a doctor's degree in veterinary medicine from a school of veterinary medicine and holds a license to practice the profession of veterinary medicine in the state. The number of such veterinary license shall be the same as that recorded by the state board of veterinary.
Vicious animal means any animal that constitutes a physical threat to human beings or other animals.
(Ord. No. 94-004, § I, 7-11-94)
Cross reference— Definitions generally, § 1-2.
Sec. 10-2. - Enforcement of chapter.
The civil and criminal provisions of this chapter shall be enforced by those persons or agencies designated by the city. The animal control officer shall have the power to conduct such investigations as may be deemed reasonably necessary to carry out the duties as referred to in this chapter, and for this purpose to enter at any reasonable time upon any property, public or private, for the purpose of investigating suspected violations of this chapter. It shall be unlawful for any person to interfere with an identified animal control officer in the performance of his duties. For purposes of this chapter, an animal control officer employed by the county shall be deemed an animal control officer of the city.
(Ord. No. 94-004, § VII, 7-11-94)
Sec. 10-3. - Violations of chapter.
Whenever it has been determined that any provision of this chapter has been violated, prior to filing a warrant or accusation pertaining to such violation, the appropriate authority may serve the owner of the premises on which the violation has occurred with a copy of this chapter, provide such owner with written notice of the violation, and allow such owner a reasonable time as determined by the appropriate authority or his representative, but not exceeding 30 days, in order to permit such owner to avoid prosecution by correcting the condition constituting the violation. For purposes of this chapter, the appropriate official includes a health official of the city and an official of the county health department.
(Ord. No. 94-004, § VIII, 7-11-94)
Sec. 10-4. - Penalty for violation of chapter.
Whenever by this chapter any act is prohibited or is made or declared to be unlawful, or the doing of any act is required or the failure to do any act is declared to be unlawful, where no specific penalty is provided therefor, the violation of such provision of this chapter shall, upon conviction, be punishable by fine or imprisonment as provided by section 1-11. Each day such violation continues shall be considered a separate offense. Nothing contained in this section shall prevent the city from taking such other lawful action as is necessary to prevent or remedy any violation of this chapter.
(Ord. No. 94-004, § IX, 7-11-94)
Sec. 10-5. - Nuisance animals; abatement.
Upon a finding by the municipal court that any animal constitutes a public nuisance within the definition of this chapter, the municipal court may order the owner or custodian to abate the nuisance by permanently removing the animal from the limits of the city, or by whatever other means the court deems reasonably likely to abate the nuisance. If the owner or custodian fails to abide by such order, the court, after hearing, may order that the animal be destroyed by the animal control officer. For purposes of this chapter, a finding by the county magistrate court shall be deemed the finding of the municipal court.
(Ord. No. 94-004, § V, 7-11-94)
Sec. 10-6. - Vicious animals and guard dogs.
(a)
Muzzling or caging. It shall be unlawful for any person to take or keep any vicious animal outside a building or secure enclosure, unless such animal is securely muzzled or caged.
(b)
Posting of notice. It shall be the duty of each owner, tenant or custodian of property upon which or within which a vicious dog is located to conspicuously and permanently post a notice on the outside of the property stating: "Warning Bad Dog." The letters shall be one inch or larger. In the case of a building, notice shall be conspicuously posted on or about each and every entrance and exit. In the case of a general enclosure in which a guard dog is located, the notices shall be conspicuously posted at every entrance and exit throughout the enclosure.
(Ord. No. 94-004, § VI, 7-11-94)
State Law reference— Dangerous Dog Control Law, O.C.G.A. § 4-8-20 et seq.
Sec. 10-7. - Keeping of dogs and cats.
(a)
No person shall raise or keep, or permit to be raised or kept, on premises that he owns or controls inside the city any dog or cat, unless:
(1)
Each part of the premises of which such an animal has access is at least 50 feet from the nearest occupied dwelling house or business establishment of another person; and at least ten feet from any boundary or property line.
(2)
Cages or other shelters for such animals are kept clean.
(3)
Pens and other enclosures are well drained.
(b)
It shall be unlawful for any person to keep any unrestrained dog, other than a hunting dog, as provided in this section.
(Ord. No. 94-004, § IV(A), 7-11-94)
Sec. 10-8. - Keeping horses, livestock and other animals.
(a)
Keeping of horses, mules, asses, cows, sheep, goats, hogs, dogs, rabbits, guinea pigs, hamsters, chickens, turkeys, geese, ducks, pigeons, or similar fowl or animals shall be prohibited except under the following conditions:
(1)
Any housing or enclosure used by such animals or fowl shall be well drained, free from accumulations of animal excrement and objectionable odors, and otherwise clean and sanitary. Animal excrement shall be disposed of in a manner approved by the health officer.
(2)
Horse stables (not enclosures or fences) shall be a minimum of 200 feet from any occupied building except the dwelling unit of the owner, unless the owner of the adjacent building and the health officer give permission for a lesser distance.
(3)
Such animals or fowl shall be kept at the following minimum distances from any occupied building except the dwelling unit of the owner:
EXPAND
Animals Distance
(in feet)
  Horses, mules, cattle, sheep, goats or similar animals ..... 200
Swine (fewer than four) ..... 300
Swine (four or more) ..... 900
Dogs (four or more) ..... 100
Rabbits, guinea pigs, hamsters and similar animals (five or more) ..... 200
Chickens, turkeys, geese, ducks, pigeons and similar fowl (five or more) ..... 200
(4)
Animals and fowl not specifically mentioned in this chapter shall be kept at minimum distances deemed reasonable and necessary by the health officer or animal control officer.
(5)
All animals or fowl, except dogs in areas where confinement of dogs under the rabies control regulations does not apply, and cats shall be kept in adequate enclosures or tethered.
(b)
Diseased animals or fowl which might infect healthy animals or cause a menace to the public health shall be isolated or destroyed as the health officer deems necessary.
(c)
In the case of bona fide licensed pet shops, veterinary hospitals, stockyards, poultry houses and similar commercial establishments, the health officer may modify the requirements of this section where undue hardship would result from their strict enforcement.
(Ord. No. 94-004, § IV(B), 7-11-94)
Sec. 10-9. - General care and feeding.
(a)
No owner shall fail to provide his animal with sufficient good and wholesome food and water, proper shelter and protection from the weather, veterinary care when needed to prevent suffering, and humane care and treatment.
(b)
No person shall beat, cruelly ill treat, torment, overload, overwork or otherwise abuse an animal, or cause, instigate or permit any dogfight, or other combat between animals or between animals and humans.
(c)
No owner of an animal shall abandon the animal.
(Ord. No. 94-004, § IV(C), 7-11-94)
State Law reference— Cruelty to animals, O.C.G.A. § 16-12-4.
Sec. 10-10. - Animal waste.
The owner of every animal shall be responsible for the removal of any excreta deposited by his animals on public walks, recreation areas or private or public property and buildings of the city.
(Ord. No. 94-004, § IV(D), 7-11-94)
Sec. 10-11. - Care of injured animals.
Any person who, as the operator of a motor vehicle, strikes a domestic animal shall immediately report the death or injury to the animal owner or to the animal control department.
(Ord. No. 94-004, § IV(E), 7-11-94)
Sec. 10-12. - Euthanasia.
When any animal, whose owner is unknown or incapable of being located, is impounded subject to the provisions of this article, and such animal is injured or otherwise in a state of suffering, it shall thereupon be the duty of the animal control officer to obtain the opinion of a licensed practicing veterinarian as to the extent of such suffering or injury to such animal. When such opinion is that euthanasia should be performed, it shall then become the duty of the animal control officer to authorize such euthanasia. If the owner is located, it shall be done at the owner's expense.
(Ord. No. 94-004, § II(B)(2), 7-11-94)
Sec. 10-13. - Hunting dogs.
Deer dogs are allowed to run in wooded areas, where permitted by the owner of the property, during deer hunting season, as established by federal and/or state laws and regulations. All hunting dogs shall bear tags containing the owner's name, address and phone number, and shall be vaccinated in accordance with state rabies shot regulations. All hunting dogs used in hunting game shall be properly supervised.
(Ord. No. 94-004, § III(A), 7-11-94)
Sec. 10-14. - Animals in recreational areas.
It shall be unlawful for any person to bring any pet, animal, dog or cat, of any age, whether or not such animal is on a leash, into any designated recreational area or park. There shall be excepted from this provision all Seeing Eye dogs or animals.
(Ord. No. 94-004, § III(B), 7-11-94)
Secs. 10-15—10-45. - Reserved.
ARTICLE II. - RABIES CONTROL[2]

Sec. 10-46. - Annual inoculation.
All dogs and cats housed, kept or boarded within the city shall be inoculated annually against rabies.
(Ord. No. 94-004, § IV(F)(1), 7-11-94)
Sec. 10-47. - Vaccinations; qualifications to provide.
(a)
No person shall be allowed to vaccinate dogs or cats against rabies who is not licensed to practice veterinary medicine in the state.
(b)
A veterinarian or any person having vaccinated dogs or cats against rabies with inferior vaccine or any drug, chemical or biological material, which is not specified in this article or that has not been approved by the health department, or who violates any provision of this article, in whole or in part, shall not be permitted to vaccinate dogs or cats against rabies.
(Ord. No. 94-004, § II(A), 7-11-94)
Sec. 10-48. - Impoundment, quarantine and disposal of animals generally.
Any dog found within the city not vaccinated as required by this article within the previous 12 months shall likewise be impounded, quarantined or otherwise disposed of as required by this article.
(Ord. No. 94-004, § II(B)(1), 7-11-94)
Sec. 10-49. - Deadline for payment of license taxes and fees after impoundment; adoption or euthanasia.
Any dog or cat impounded under this article whose owner, possessor, or representative shall not come forward within three working days after the impoundment and pay the license tax and the fees specified in this article shall be put up for adoption or euthanasia in some humane way.
(Ord. No. 94-004, § II(B)(3), 7-11-94)
Sec. 10-50. - Quarantine.
(a)
Where rabies has been found to exist in any warmblooded animal, or where its existence is suspected, the health department may designate an area within which quarantine shall be maintained as provided by the terms of this article. Every such animal shall thereupon be immediately confined to the premises designated by the health department, whether or not the animal has been vaccinated against rabies.
(b)
No animal shall be removed from or brought into a quarantined area without written permission of the health department. The application for such permission shall be in writing, filed with the health department, stating the reason for movement and the location at which the animal will be confined after movement.
(c)
When quarantine is ordered by the health department, it shall be maintained for a period of 90 days, with the right of the health department, by its duly authorized authority, to increase or diminish the period as, in its uncontrolled discretion, the public safety and health may require.
(d)
Where an animal has been suspected of having rabies or has rabies symptoms, the area or premises where such animals are kept shall be posted by the health department with signs to read as follows: "Rabies Suspected" or "Rabies, Keep From Animals." Such signs shall be conspicuously displayed on the premises, printed with type that is easily legible and shall remain on the premises for the duration of the quarantine.
(e)
Persons living within a quarantine area having in their possession an animal subject to rabies or to the terms of this article shall be given written notice of the quarantine, the animals subject thereto, and an order to confine their animals so subject to the premises of the owner, together with any other information the health department deems advisable. Such notice shall be signed by a duly authorized agent of the health department.
(f)
The violation by any person of any quarantine order issued by the health officer shall be a violation of this article, and the person so violating shall be subject to all the penalties prescribed by law for a violation.
(Ord. No. 94-004, § IV(F)(2), 7-11-94)
Sec. 10-51. - Examination of heads.
The heads of all domestic animals and of all wild animals suspected of having rabies before their death or having rabies at the time of death shall be submitted to the state laboratory for examination.
(Ord. No. 94-004, § II(C), 7-11-94)
Secs. 10-52—10-80. - Reserved.
ARTICLE III. - IMPOUNDMENT

Sec. 10-81. - Dogs, cats or livestock running at large.
(a)
It shall be unlawful for the owner or keeper of any dog, other than a hunting dog during hunting season, or cat to permit them to run at large in the city, or to stray from the premises of the owner or keeper or go upon the premises of any other person.
(b)
If any properly tagged hunting dog is taken into custody by the animal control unit, such dog shall be boarded for a minimum of five days by the animal control unit at the boarding cost provided in this article. No penalties shall be charged. If an owner does not repossess his dog within five days of the dog's having been taken into the custody of the animal control unit, such dog shall be treated as abandoned.
(c)
It shall be unlawful for the owner of any animal to allow such animal to feed or to be loose on any part of the right-of-way of any public road of the city.
(d)
Any dog found within the city not wearing or displaying a valid, current vaccination tag, and not confined within a fence on the premises of the owner with all gates and openings closed, shall be immediately impounded, quarantined, or otherwise disposed of as required by this article.
(Ord. No. 94-004, §§ II(B)(1), III(A), 7-11-94)
Sec. 10-82. - Confinement of animals.
Unrestrained dogs, nuisance animals and animals found running at large shall be taken by the animal control officer and impounded in the shelter and confined in a humane manner.
(Ord. No. 94-004, § III(C)(1), 7-11-94)
Sec. 10-83. - Period of impoundment for dogs and cats.
Impounded dogs and cats shall be kept for not less than three working days depending upon the physical condition of the animal, except where such dog or cat is found to be a nuisance, in which event such dog or cat shall be disposed of as required by the judge of the municipal court or the county magistrate judge.
(Ord. No. 94-004, § III(C)(2), 7-11-94)
Sec. 10-84. - Fees and charges.
Any owner of or person adopting an impounded animal shall pay such fees and charges as may be required by the schedule of fees and charges on file in the office of the city clerk.
(Ord. No. 94-004, § III(C)(3), (4), 7-11-94)
