ARTICLE III. - DEALERS IN PRECIOUS METALS OR GEMS[3]

Sec. 18-76. - Definitions.
The following words, terms and phrases, when used in this article, shall have the meanings ascribed to them in this section, except where the context clearly indicates a different meaning:
Chief law enforcement officer means the chief of police of the city.
Dealer in precious metals or gems means any person engaged in the business of purchasing precious metals, gems or goods made from precious metals or gems from persons or sources other than manufacturers or manufacturers' representatives or other dealers in precious metals or gems; or a person engaged in any other business if, in conjunction with such business, precious metals or gems or goods made from precious metals or gems are purchased from persons or sources other than manufacturers or manufacturers' representatives or other dealers in precious metals or gems where the purchase is for resale in its original form or as changed by remounting, melting, reforming, remolding or recasting, or for resale as scrap or in bulk.
Gems means any precious or semiprecious stone cut and polished.
Numismatic coins means coins whose value as collectors' items exceeds the value of the content of the precious metals in the coins.
Precious metals means gold, silver or platinum, or any alloy containing gold, silver or platinum.
(Code 1984, § 11-302)
Cross reference— Definitions generally, § 1-2.
Sec. 18-77. - Registration.
(a)
No person shall engage in business as a dealer in precious metals or gems until he has registered as a dealer in precious metals or gems for each separate place of business as provided in this section. The registration shall be in writing and on forms prescribed by the chief of police and shall be sworn to or affirmed by the dealer in precious metals or gems. The dealer shall register with the chief of police. A copy of each registration shall be transmitted by the chief of police to the county sheriff within seven days of the registration.
(b)
The registration shall contain the name, address and age of the dealer in precious metals or gems together with the names, addresses and ages of all other persons having an ownership interest or actually employed in the business excluding publicly held corporations.
(c)
No person shall be eligible to register as a dealer in precious metals or gems if any employees or stockholder, other than stockholders owning less than ten percent of the outstanding shares of a publicly held corporation, has been convicted of a felony under the laws of this state or any other state of the United States. This provision shall not apply to any person who has been convicted of a felony after ten years have expired from the date of completion of the felony sentence.
(d)
Each registration shall contain the address of the premises upon which the business is conducted and the zoning and planning classification of the premises.
(e)
Each dealer shall be required to notify the chief law enforcement officer of the city within seven calendar days of any change of address of the dealer or business or any change of ownership in the business. The chief of police shall transmit a copy of the change of address or ownership to the sheriff of the county within seven days of receipt of the notification.
(f)
Each applicant for registration shall possess a current business license and shall pay an initial registration fee as provided in the schedule of fees and charges to cover the cost of registration. The registration shall be renewed annually upon presentation of a current business license by the dealer and by the payment of a renewal fee as provided in the schedule of fees and charges.
(g)
Nothing contained in this section shall be construed so as to authorize any person to transact business as a dealer in precious metals and gems without purchasing a current business license.
(Code 1984, § 11-303)
Sec. 18-78. - Bonds.
Each dealer in precious metals or gems shall be required to post a performance bond in the amount of $1,000.00.
(Code 1984, § 11-304)
Sec. 18-79. - Permanent records.
(a)
Every dealer in precious metals or gems shall maintain a book, in permanent form, in which shall be entered at the time of each purchase of precious metals or gems or goods made from precious metals or gems the following:
(1)
The date and time of the purchase transaction;
(2)
The name of the person making the purchase from the seller;
(3)
The name, age and address of the seller of the items purchased and the distinctive number from such seller's driver's license or other similar identification card containing a photo of the seller;
(4)
A clear and accurate identification and description of the purchased goods, including the serial, model or other number, and all identifying marks inscribed thereon;
(5)
The price paid for the goods purchased;
(6)
The number of the check issued for the purchase price if payment is made by check; and
(7)
The signature of the seller.
(b)
All entries made in the permanent record book shall be in legible English. All entries shall appear in chronological order. No blank lines may be left between entries. No obliterations, alterations or erasures may be made. Corrections shall be made by drawing a line of ink through the entry without destroying its legibility. The book shall be maintained for each purchase of precious metals or gems or goods made from precious metals or gems for at least two years. The book shall be open to the inspection of any duly authorized law enforcement officer during the ordinary hours of business or at any reasonable time.
(c)
Dealers exclusively engaged in buying or exchanging for merchandise scrap dental gold and silver from licensed dentists by registered or certified mail may record the post office record of the mailed parcel in lieu of the seller's age and driver's license number as required in subsection (a)(3) of this section and in lieu of the seller's signature as required in subsection (a)(7) of this section.
(Code 1984, § 11-305)
Sec. 18-80. - Reports.
(a)
Every dealer in precious metals or gems shall make a report in writing to the chief of police of all precious metals or gems or goods made from precious metals or gems purchased on the day previous to the date of the report on forms approved as prescribed by the chief of police. The report shall contain the information specified in section 18-79(a)(1)—(a)(5) and shall be typewritten or handwritten in legible English and mailed or delivered to the city chief of police within 24 hours after the day in which the transaction occurred.
(b)
All reports shall be maintained in a locked container under the direct supervision of the city chief of police and shall be available for inspection only for law enforcement purposes. The city chief of police may, in his discretion, authorize any person to inspect the reports in an effort to locate stolen property who demonstrate theft of precious metals or gems by the presenting of an incident report or other similar document.
(Code 1984, § 11-306)
Sec. 18-81. - Prohibited acts.
(a)
It shall be unlawful for any dealer in precious metals or gems or any agent or employee of a dealer in precious metals or gems who makes purchases of precious metals or gems or of goods made from precious metals or gems to:
(1)
Make any false statement in the registration provided for in section 18-77;
(2)
Fail to maintain and make entries in the permanent record books as required by section 18-79;
(3)
Make any false entry therein;
(4)
Falsify, obliterate, destroy or remove from the place of business such permanent record book;
(5)
Refuse to allow any duly authorized law enforcement officer to inspect such permanent record book, or any precious metals or gems or goods made from precious metals or gems in his possession, during the ordinary hours of business or at any reasonable time;
(6)
Sell, exchange or remove from the legal possession of the buyer or to alter the form of any precious metals or gems or goods made from precious metals or gems purchased by remounting, melting, cutting up or otherwise altering the original form until at least ten business days have elapsed from the time of purchase or acquisition; or
(7)
Fail to make the written report as required in section 18-79; or
(8)
Purchase any precious metals or gems from any person under 17 years of age.
(b)
It shall be unlawful for any person to advertise or transact business as a dealer in precious metals or gems without first registering pursuant to the provisions of section 18-77.
(c)
It shall be unlawful for any dealer in precious metals or gems to purchase precious metals in a melted or smelted state unless the purchaser is from a registered dealer in precious metals or gems.
(d)
If the chief law enforcement officer of the county or city has probable cause to believe that the precious metals or gems have been stolen, he may give notice in writing to the dealer to retain the precious metals or gems for an additional 15 days, and it shall be unlawful for the dealer to dispose of the property unless the notice is revoked in writing within the 15-day period.
(Code 1984, § 11-307)
Sec. 18-82. - Dealers in numismatic coins.
The provisions of this article shall not apply to dealers exclusively engaged in the sale or exchange of numismatic coins or to transactions exclusively involving numismatic coins or other coinage.
(Code 1984, § 11-309)
Secs. 18-83—18-110. - Reserved.
