ARTICLE VIII. - PANHANDLING

Sec. 10-205. - Definitions.
The following words, terms and phrases, when used in this article, shall have the meanings ascribed to them in this section, except where the context clearly indicates a different meaning:
Aggressive panhandling means and includes:
(1)
Intentionally or recklessly making any physical contact with or touching another person or his vehicle in the course of the solicitation without the person's consent;
(2)
Following the person being solicited, if that conduct is intended to or is likely to cause a reasonable person to fear imminent bodily harm or the commission of a criminal act upon property in the person's possession, or is intended to, or is reasonably likely to intimidate the person being solicited into responding affirmatively to the solicitation;
(3)
Continuing to solicit within five feet of the person being solicited after the person has made a negative response, if continuing the solicitation is intended to or is likely to cause a reasonable person to fear imminent bodily harm or the commission of a criminal act upon property in the person's possession, or is intended to, or is reasonably likely to intimidate the person being solicited into responding affirmatively to the solicitation;
(4)
Intentionally or recklessly blocking the safe or free passage of the person being solicited or requiring the person, or the driver of a vehicle, to take evasive action to avoid physical contact with the person making the solicitation. Acts authorized as an exercise of one's constitutional right to picket or legally protest, and acts authorized by a permit issued pursuant to section 10-152 shall not constitute obstruction of pedestrian or vehicular traffic;
(5)
Intentionally or recklessly using obscene or abusive language or gestures intended to or likely to cause a reasonable person to fear imminent bodily harm or the commission of a criminal act upon property in the person's possession, or words intended to, or reasonably likely to intimidate the person being solicited into responding affirmatively to the solicitation;
(6)
Approaching the person being solicited in a manner that is intended to or is likely to cause a reasonable person to fear imminent bodily harm or the commission of a criminal act upon property in the person's possession, or is intended to, or is reasonably likely to intimidate the person being solicited into responding affirmatively to the solicitation.
Public area means an area to which the public or a substantial group of persons has access, including but not limited to alleys, bridges, buildings, driveways, parking lots, parks, play grounds, plazas, sidewalks, and streets that are open to the general public.
Solicit means to request an immediate donation of money or other thing of value from another person, regardless of the solicitor's purpose or intended use of the money or other thing of value, including employment, business or contributions or to request the sale of goods or services. The solicitation may be, without limitation, by the spoken, written, or printed word, or by other means of communication.
(Ord. No. 07-12-08, art. 7, § 1, 12-12-2007)
Sec. 10-206. - Prohibitions.
(a)
It shall be unlawful for any person, firm, organization, or corporation to aggressively panhandle or solicit funds for the sole benefit of the solicitor within any public area in Chattahoochee Hills or:
(1)
In any public transportation vehicle, or public transportation station or stop;
(2)
Within 15 feet of any entrance or exit of any bank or check cashing business or within 15 feet of any automated teller machine during the hours of operation of such bank, automated teller machine or check cashing business without the consent of the owner or other person legally in possession of such facilities; provided, however, that when an automated teller machine is located within an automated teller machine facility, such distance shall be measured from the entrance or exit of the automated teller machine facility;
(3)
On private property if the owner, tenant, or lawful occupant has asked the person not to solicit on the property, or has posted a sign clearly indicating that solicitations are not welcome on the property; or
(4)
From any operator of a motor vehicle that is in traffic on a public street, whether in exchange for cleaning the vehicle's windows, or for blocking, occupying, or reserving a public parking space; provided, however, that this paragraph shall not apply to services rendered in connection with emergency repairs requested by the operator or passengers of such vehicle.
(b)
Unauthorized solicitation shall constitute an ordinance violation.
(c)
Aggressive panhandling shall constitute an aggravated ordinance violation.
(Ord. No. 07-12-08, art. 7, § 2, 12-12-2007)
Sec. 10-207. - Applicability.
This chapter regulates the time, place and manner of solicitations and shall not apply to any persons exercising their clearly established constitutional right to picket, protest or engage in other constitutionally protected activity.
(Ord. No. 07-12-08, art. 7, § 3, 12-12-2007)
Secs. 10-208—10-237. - Reserved.
