Chapter 20 - MANUFACTURED HOMES AND MOBILE HOMES
ARTICLE I. - IN GENERAL

Sec. 20-1. - Placement of used and pre-owned mobile or manufactured homes.
(a)
It resolved by the county commissioners of the county, and it is hereby resolved by authority of the same that the regulations governing the placement or movement of used and pre-owned mobile or manufactured homes within or into the county are hereby adopted as follows:
(1)
No used or pre-owned mobile or manufactured home being moved into the county shall be allowed to locate for permanent or temporary occupancy in this county without an inspection. However, any mobile or manufactured home that is located in the county as of April 15, 2004, shall not be affected by passage of the resolution from which this section was derived and such existing mobile home shall be freely transferable and relocated in the county, unless such existing mobile or manufactured home was manufactured prior to U.S. Housing and Urban Development Department construction standards.
(2)
Permit requirements. No permit shall be issued under this chapter, unless a septic tank permit has been obtained from the health department. All mobile homes being moved into the county shall conform to all permitting requirements. No mobile or manufactured home permit shall be issued unless proof of payment of current year's taxes is provided.
(b)
Violations. Any person violating the provisions of this chapter shall be brought before the magistrate court for violation of this chapter and upon conviction thereof shall be fined in an amount up to $1,000.00. Such person shall be guilty of a separate offense for each and every day during which any violation of any provision of this chapter is committed, continued or permitted by that person and shall be punished by a fine in an amount up to $1,000.00 per day for the violation.
(Res. of 12-13-2010)
Secs. 20-2—20-20. - Reserved.
ARTICLE II. - MINIMUM STANDARDS FOR PRE-OWNED MANUFACTURED HOMES

Sec. 20-21. - Definitions.
The following words, terms and phrases, when used in this article, shall have the meanings ascribed to them in this section, except where the context clearly indicates a different meaning:
Assignee means any bank, financing institution or any person purchasing a retail installment contract, that has as security, a manufactured home.
Pre-owned manufactured home means any manufactured home as defined in Georgia Law 8-2-131(3) that has been previously utilized as a residential dwelling.
Retailer shall be synonymous with a dealer, as defined in Georgia Law 8-2-131(3), that has been previously utilized as a residential dwelling.
(Res. of 12-13-2010, § A)
Sec. 20-22. - Facilities required.
(a)
Sanitary facilities. Every pre-owned manufactured home shall contain not less than a kitchen sink, lavatory, tub or shower, and a water closet all in working condition when properly connected to an approved water and sewer system. Every plumbing fixture and water and waste pipe shall be in a sanitary working condition free from leaks and obstructions.
(b)
Hot and cold water supply. Every kitchen sink, lavatory and tub or shower in a pre-owned manufactured home must be connected to a supply of both cold and hot water.
(c)
Water heating facilities. Every pre-owned manufactured home shall have water-heating facilities in a safe, working condition.
(d)
Heating facilities.
(1)
Every pre-owned manufactured home shall have heating facilities in safe, working condition. Where a central heating system is not provided, each manufactured home shall be provided with facilities whereby heating appliances may be connected.
(2)
Unvented fuel-burning heaters shall be prohibited, except for gas heaters listed for unvented use and the total input rating of the unvented heaters is less than 30 BTU per hour per cubic feet of room content.
(3)
Unvented fuel-burning heaters shall be prohibited in bedrooms.
(4)
In lieu of inspecting the heating facilities of a pre-owned manufactured home, the retailer may request a heating inspection by a qualified third party. Approval by such person will be accepted as compliance with those portions of the safety standards established herein which pertain to heating systems.
(e)
Smoke detector. Every pre-owned manufactured home shall be provided with a state approved smoke detector, installed in accordance with the manufacturer's recommendations and listing.
(f)
Windows. Every habitable room, excluding bathrooms, kitchens, and hallways, shall have at least one window that can be opened, facing directly to the outdoors. Glass must be in the windows.
(g)
Ventilation. Every habitable room shall have at least one window or skylight which can be opened, or such other device that will ventilate the room.
(h)
Electrical.
(1)
Distribution panels. Distribution panels shall be in compliance with the approved listing, complete with required breakers or fuses, with all unused openings covered with black covers approved and listed for that purpose.
(2)
Electrical system. The electrical system (switches, receptacles, fixtures, etc.) shall be properly installed, wired and shall be in working condition. The pre-owned manufactured home shall be subjected to an electrical continuity tests to ensure that all metallic parts are properly bonded.
(3)
Third party inspection. The retailer may, in lieu of inspecting the electrical and heating systems of a pre-owned manufactured home, request an electrical inspection by a qualified third party. Approval by such a person will be accepted as compliance with those portions of the safety standards established herein which pertain to electrical systems.
(i)
Exterior walls. The exterior of the home shall be free of loose or rotting boards or timbers and any other conditions that might admit rain or moisture to the interior portions of the walls or to the occupied spaces of the pre-owned manufactured home.
(j)
Exterior siding. The exterior siding of the pre-owned manufactured home shall be free of rot and rust and must be uniform in appearance.
(k)
Roofs. Roofs shall be structurally sound and have no obvious defects, which might admit rain or cause moisture to collect on the interior portion of the home.
(l)
Interior floors, walls, and ceiling. Every floor, interior wall and ceiling shall be kept in sound condition to prevent the admittance of rain or moisture.
(Res. of 12-13-2010, § B)
Sec. 20-23. - Exception for homes purchased for repair.
(a)
If a pre-owned home is to be sold as is for purposes of repair prior to occupancy, the sales agreement and/or contract shall specifically state that the purchaser understands that the home is not habitable in its present condition and that purchaser must bring home into compliance with the specified standards.
(b)
No home may be placed for occupancy until the standards herein are met.
(Res. of 12-13-2010, § C)
