PART I - SPECIAL ACTS AND RELATED LAWS[1]
ARTICLE I. - LANIER COUNTY COMMISSIONERS

Section 1. - [Board created; commissioner districts.]
(a)
The board of commissioners of Lanier County shall be composed of five members. Except for the chairperson, the members of the board shall be residents of the commissioner districts they represent and shall be elected by the qualified electors voting within their respective commissioner districts. The chairperson shall be a resident of Lanier County and shall be elected by the qualified voters of the entire county.
(b)
For the purpose of electing four members of the board from commissioner districts, Lanier County shall be divided into four commissioner districts. One member of the board shall be elected from each such district. Those districts shall be and correspond to those four numbered districts described in and attached to and made a part of this Act and further identified as Plan Name: lanierccsbpl Plan Type: Local User: Tara Administrator: Lanier Co.
(c)
When used in such attachment, the terms 'tract' and 'BG' (block group) shall mean and describe the same geographical boundaries as provided in the report of the Bureau of the Census for the United States decennial census of 2000 for the State of Georgia. The separate numeric designations in a tract description which are underneath a 'BG' heading shall mean and describe individual blocks within a block group as provided in the report of the Bureau of the Census for the United States decennial census of 2000 for the State of Georgia. Any part of Lanier County which is not included in any such district described in that attachment shall be included within that district contiguous to such part which contains the least population according to the United States decennial census of 2000 for the State of Georgia. Any part of Lanier County which is described in that attachment as being in a particular district shall nevertheless not be included within such district if such part is not contiguous to such district. Such noncontiguous part shall instead be included within that district contiguous to such part which contains the least population according to the United States decennial census of 2000 for the State of Georgia. Except as otherwise provided in the description of any district, whenever the description of such district refers to a named city, it shall mean the geographical boundaries of that city as shown on the census map for the United States decennial census of 2000 for the State of Georgia.
(1945 Ga. Laws (Act No. 142), § 1, p. 744; 1985 Ga. Laws (Act No. 110), § 1, p. 3820; 2002 Ga. Laws (Act No. 426), § 1, p. 3736)
Editor's note— The attachment referred to as "Plan Name: lanierccsbpl Plan Type: Local User: Tara Administrator: Lanier Co.," has been omitted from this printing at the discretion of the editor. It may be found at 2002 Ga. Laws (Act No. 426), p. 3736, and is available for public examination in the county offices.
Section 2. - [Reserved.]
Section 3. - [Vacancy; transition.]
(a)
In the event that any member elected from a district ceases to be a resident of his or her respective commissioner district during his or her term of office, a vacancy shall be created and shall be filled in the manner provided in Section 18 of this Act. In all elections conducted pursuant to this Act, each candidate shall designate, at the time of qualifying, the district or chairperson post for which he or she offers as a candidate. All members shall be nominated and elected in accordance with the provisions of Chapter 2 of Title 21 of the O.C.G.A., the 'Georgia Election Code,' as now or hereafter amended.
(b)
The members of the board who were elected at the general election in November 1998 shall continue in office for the terms to which they were elected and until successors are elected and qualified as provided in this section. The members of the board who were elected at the general election in November 2000 shall continue in office for the terms to which they were elected and until successors are elected and qualified as provided in this section.
(c)
The first members of the reconstituted board of commissioners of Lanier County from Commissioner Districts 1 and 2 shall be elected in the state-wide general election in November 2002. Such members shall take office on January 1 following their election for terms of four years and until their successors are elected and qualified.
(d)
The first members of the reconstituted board of commissioners of Lanier County from Commissioner Districts 3 and 4 shall be elected in the state-wide general election in November 2004. Such members shall take office on January 1 following their election for a term of four years and until their successors are elected and qualified.
(e)
The first chairperson of the reconstituted board of commissioners of Lanier County shall be elected by all of the qualified voters of Lanier County voting in the state-wide general election in November 2004. Such chairperson shall take office on January 1 following his or her election for a term of four years and until his or her successor is elected and qualified.
(f)
Successors to members elected under subsections (c), (d), and (e) of this section shall be elected at the state-wide general election next preceding the expiration of such terms of office and shall take office on January 1 following their election for terms of four years and until their successors are elected and qualified.
(g)
Commissioner Districts 1, 2, 3, and 4 as they exist immediately prior to the effective date of this Act shall continue to be designated as Commissioner Districts 1, 2, 3, and 4, respectively, but as newly described under this Act, and, on and after the effective date of this Act, such members of the board serving from those former commissioner districts shall be deemed to be serving from and representing their respective districts as newly described under this section.
(1985 Ga. Laws (Act No. 110), § 2, p. 3820; 2002 Ga. Laws (Act No. 426), § 2, p. 3736)
Section 4. - [Reserved.]
Section 5. - [Quorum, minutes.]
Be it further enacted, that the majority of the board shall constitute a quorum for the transaction of all business, and [the] majority of the board must concur in order to pass an order or let any contract or grant or allow any claim against the county, and their acts on all such matters shall be duly entered on the minutes of the board.
Section 6. - [Jurisdiction.]
Be it further enacted, that the board of county commissioners of roads and revenues hereby created shall have exclusive jurisdiction over the control of all county matters, such as public roads, bridges, the working or hiring out of convicts, public roads, county finances, the levying and collecting of taxes for said county purposes, the management, control over, and disbursing of county funds, the erection, repair, and maintenance of public buildings, the supervision over and control of and exclusive jurisdiction over and in all matters of county finance wherein jurisdiction is now vested in the ordinaries of this state in counties in which there is no board of county commissioners of roads and revenues, that the board shall be vested with all the rights, powers, and authority formerly vested in the inferior courts of this state when sitting for county purposes prior to the Constitution of 1868, except calling elections, which shall be by the ordinary, and matters pertaining to education, health and such matters as have been by general law vested by the legislature in other officers or tribunals, or as herein limited, extended, amplified, or modified. Said board shall constitute a court for the trial of roads defaulters, and of any and all matters pertaining to county matters formerly vested in the inferior courts of the state, or now vested in the ordinaries of the state in counties in which there is no board of commissioners of roads and revenues, when sitting for county purposes; shall have the right and power to issue all necessary writs and summon parties or witnesses before them, and shall have the power to punish for contempt by fine or imprisonment in the same manner as the courts of ordinary of this state; that the sheriff of the county or his deputy may be required to attend upon the meetings of the board and serve all writs, subpoenas, and other processes of such court, and the sheriff shall receive for such services such compensation as is provided for by law for like services in the superior court.
Section 6A. - [Eminent domain to condemn public or private property.]
The board of county commissioners of roads and revenues shall have power of eminent domain to condemn public or private property for the use by the County of Lanier for public purposes, except property of any existing public utility.
(1959 Ga. Laws (Act No. 191), § 1, p. 2573)
Section 6B. - [Eminent domain to condemn personal and real property.]
The board of county commissioners of roads and revenues shall have power to exercise the power of eminent domain to condemn personal and real property necessary for the construction of a dam and a lake.
(1959 Ga. Laws (Act No. 191), § 1, p. 2573)
Section 7. - [Exercise of power.]
Be it enacted, that the board shall exercise such power as may be construed as legislative or judicial only when setting in regular or special session with a quorum of the board present.
Section 8. - [Sessions; chairman.]
(a)
The board shall hold a regular meeting each month in the courthouse of the county and may adjourn from day to day until its business is finished. Extra sessions may be held at any time upon call of the chairman or any two members of the board when in their judgment the interest of the county demands it.
(b)
On and after January 1, 1987, at the first meeting of the board, which is conducted in January of each year, the board shall elect one of its members as vice-chairman and such other officers as said board shall deem necessary or desirable.
(1985 Ga. Laws (Act No. 110), § 3, p. 3820)
Section 9. - [Minutes.]
Be it further enacted, that the board shall keep full and correct minutes of all its official acts and doings, in a minute-book kept for such purposes, a book of receipts and disbursements, a general ledger, a warrant book, a book containing a complete list of county property, real and personal, and shall make a record therein of all sales or disposition of same, also a road register in which shall be kept a record of all public roads and all private roads granted or ordered kept open by the board, particularly describing such roads, and shall make a record of such roads which shall be hereafter granted or ordered kept open in accordance with law. The board shall keep on file all paid warrants and vouchers and other papers necessary to show a complete record of all transactions of the county.
Section 10. - [Clerk; bond; itemized statements to be published.]
Be it further enacted that the board shall elect a clerk for the board for a term of one year, subject to removal for cause, and whose salary shall be determined by the board in its discretion. Said clerk shall keep the books and records of said board mentioned in Section 9 of this Act, and such other books and records necessary in the discretion of the board. He shall prepare all warrants drawn against the county (which are to be signed by him and countersigned by the chairman), and attach the county seal. He shall prepare the financial report of the board, which is to be submitted to the grand jury at the October and February terms of the superior court of said county, showing the amount of receipts and disbursements, said clerk shall audit the books of the board once a month and submit the report in writing to the board of each preceding month at the regular meeting of the board, which report is to be published in one issue of the official organ of the county, showing receipts and disbursements. Said board may, if it deems advisable, require said clerk to give a bond in a good and solvent fidelity and bonding company, in such sum as said board may deem proper, which said bond shall be payable to the chairman of said board and his successor in office, and shall be duly recorded in the minutes of the board.
(1937 Ga. Laws (Act No. 354), § 3, p. 1358); 1952 Ga. Laws (Act No. 634), § 1, p. 2365)
Section 11. - [Employees.]
Be it further enacted by the authority aforesaid, that said board of commissioners shall have authority to hire a warden, superintendent of roads, and such other persons as may be necessary for the proper working of the roads and building of bridges and keeping the same in repair, and to pay the same out of the county funds.
Section 12. - [County warrants; bond of chairman.]
Be it further enacted, that all warrants drawn on the county shall be drawn by the clerk of the board, and signed by the clerk and countersigned by the chairman of the board, before being paid by the treasurer or depository of county. All warrants shall be numbered, and shall show for what and on what fund drawn, and the originals and the book of stubs carefully preserved and kept on file in the office of the board. The chairman of the board shall make a bond in the sum as the board may prescribe, in a good and solvent fidelity and guarantee company, payable to the county, conditioned for the faithful discharge of their duties of this office. The amount of such bonds and the securities thereon shall be first approved by the ordinary of the county, and then filed and recorded by the ordinary as the bonds of other county officers. The premiums on said bonds to be paid out of the county funds. Certified copies of such bonds shall be kept on file in the office of the board.
Section 13. - [Plans for roads, etc.]
Be it further enacted, that the board shall, in regular session, make general plans, specifications, and requirements, prescribing the manner and style in which the public roads, bridges, and buildings of the county shall be constructed and repaired. And such plans, specifications, and requirements shall not be modified or changed except on action of the board in like manner as the same were adopted. The board shall furnish the warden or superintendent with a copy of such plans, specifications, and requirements, and require the public roads, bridges, and building of the county to be built and repaired in accordance therewith.
Section 14. - [County physician and attorney; supplies; buildings.]
The board shall have the right and authority to employ a county physician and a county attorney, and to also employ special counsel to represent the county in matters where, in their opinion, the same may be necessary or advisable to protect the interest of the county. The board shall fix the salary of the county attorney in an amount not less than $10.00 per month and not more than $35.00 per month. Said board of commissioners is also authorized to purchase all office supplies, fixtures, stationery, books, records, and all other articles necessary for the use of all county officers; also to build, lease, or rent building[s] and offices for the accommodation of the court and county officers, and a jail to take care of prisoners.
(1967 Ga. Laws (Act No. 235), § 1, p. 2577)
Section 15. - [Payment of salaries, etc.]
Be it further enacted, that the salary or compensation of all of its officers and employees, which shall be paid out of the county funds as provided by law.
Section 16. - [Pay of board members.]
The salary of the chairman of said board of commissioners shall be established annually by the board of commissioners at the regular meeting of the board in January of each year; provided, however, that such salary of the chairman for the remainder of calendar year 1993 and until the initial meeting of the board in January, 1994, shall be established by the board at the first meeting of the board following the effective date of this section. The salary of each of the other members of said board shall be established by the board but shall not exceed $250.00 per month. All salaries shall be paid monthly out of the county's funds.
(1937 Ga. Laws (Act No. 354), § 4, p. 1358; 1941 Ga. Laws (Act No. 420), p. 899; 1958 Ga. Laws (Act No. 473), § 1, p. 3418; 1967 Ga. Laws (Act No. 235), § 2, p. 2577; 1969 Ga. Laws (Act No. 500), § 1, p. 3617; 1993 Ga. Laws (Act No. 266), § 1, p. 4916; Res. of 2-8-1993)
Section 17. - [Qualifications.]
Be it further enacted, that no person shall be eligible to be a member of the board of commissioners of roads and revenues, under the provision of this Act, who is not at least 25 years old, and shall have been a citizen of the county for two whole years next preceding his election, and is also a freeholder of the county and shall be of good moral character, and experienced in matters of finance. No member of such board shall be eligible to hold any other office of the county while a member of such board, but may be an employee of the board if the board so desires, except no member of the board can serve as clerk or attorney for the board.
Section 18. - [Vacancies.]
All vacancies in the membership of the board shall be filled by a special election called by the election superintendent of the county in the same manner as in the case to fill vacancies in other county offices, and the person so elected shall be commissioned and hold office until the expiration of said unexpired term and until his successor is elected and qualified. The expense of any such special election shall be paid out of the general funds of the county. A person elected to fill a vacancy created by a member from a commissioner district shall be required to be a resident of the same commissioner district and shall be elected by a majority of the qualified electors voting within such commissioner district.
(1985 Ga. Laws (Act No. 110), § 4, p. 3820)
Section 19. - [Quorum at meetings.]
A majority of the board shall constitute a quorum for the transaction of all business, and a majority of the board must concur in order to transact any official business. The acts of the board shall be duly entered on the minutes of the board.
(1945 Ga. Laws (Act No. 142), § 3, p. 744; 1985 Ga. Laws (Act No. 110), § 5, p. 3820)
Section 20. - [Oath.]
Be it further enacted, that the commissioners elected under the provision of the Act shall each be commissioned by the Governor for the term of office for which he has been elected, and each shall, before entering upon the duties of his office, take and subscribe, in addition to the oath provided by law for all civil officers of the state, the following oath, to wit: "I do solemnly swear that I will well and truly discharge the duties of commissioner of roads and revenues for Lanier County, in all matters which require my official action, to the best of my knowledge and skill, and I will so act as in my judgment will be most conducive to the welfare and best interest of the entire county; so help me God."
Section 21. - [Purchases; bids required; unlawful financial interest of member; penalty.]
Be it further enacted by authority aforesaid, that it shall be unlawful for the board to purchase any supplies, material, stock, road equipment, or other articles of value, or contract for any work to be done on the public roads, bridges, or other works of the county, when the purchase or contract amounts to $100.00 or more, without first advertising for competitive bids on such purchase or contract by posting a notice at the courthouse door or by publishing in the official organ of the county (at the discretion of the board) a description of material and other items needed and specifications for contract, at least ten days before the purchase is made or contract let. The board shall have the right to reject any and all bids; and it shall be unlawful for any member of the board to have any financial interest in the sale or purchase of any articles or contract for the county (not to apply to any lease or contract now in force), or to receive any rebate, expense account, transportation, or other valuable consideration in connection with or through the purchase of any equipment or supplies for the county or for the awarding of any contract for said county; and if any commissioner shall violate any provision of this section, he shall be guilty of a misdemeanor, and upon conviction shall be punished as prescribed in Section 1065 of the Penal Code of Georgia of 1910, and shall forfeit his office, and such conviction shall create a vacancy in said office which shall be filled by election as provided in Section 18 of this Act.
Section 22. - [Eligible voters, etc.]
Be it further enacted, that all persons otherwise qualified to vote or participate in the elections provided for herein shall be allowed to participate therein as voter or candidate who have paid all poll-tax required of them prior to the date of said elections or election, regardless of any other taxes they may owe.
Section 23. - [Laws in conflict.]
Be it further enacted, that all laws and parts of laws in conflict with the provisions of this Act be and the same are hereby repealed.
Section 24. - [Audit of accounts and books; grand jury's duty.]
Be it further enacted by the authority aforesaid, that the grand jury sitting at the last regular term of court in each year shall appoint a public accountant or a firm of public accountants to audit all the books and accounts of the county, including the tax receiver, tax collector, tax commissioner, treasurer, depository, sheriff, superintendent of schools, commissioners of roads and revenues, and any or all other officers or persons either receiving or disbursing county funds. Said accountant so appointed shall have the power to examine upon oath any county officer or any citizen relative to any account, item, warrant, or transaction in connection with any of the affairs of said county, and particularly in connection with the board of roads and revenues. Said accountant shall audit all books, accounts, vouchers, warrants, and other records of the entire county up to January 1 of the year following his or their appointment, and shall prepare an inventory of all property and material of said county on hand at that date, and make a report of their findings to the judge of the Superior Court of said county, who shall submit the same together with his comment, criticism, and recommendations to the grand jury at the first regular term of the Superior Court thereafter, which grand jury, in its discretion, may provide for the publication of said report in the official organ of the county or in pamphlet form. The grand jury appointing such accountant or accountants shall prescribe the amount to be paid them for their services; and after such services have been performed and the judge of the Superior Court has submitted said report to the grand jury, it shall be the duty of the board of commissioners of roads and revenues to provide for and pay said accountant or accountants for their services upon the written approval of the foreman of the grand jury making the appointment.
(1937 Ga. Laws (Act No. 354), § 6, p. 1358)
Section 25. - [Sale of county property.]
Be it further enacted by the authority aforesaid, that whenever said board of commissioners of roads and revenues deem it advisable or necessary that any property belonging to said county be sold, they shall sell the same, after due advertisement in the official newspaper of the county, at public outcry to the highest bidder for cash before the courthouse door.
(1937 Ga. Laws (Act No. 354), § 7, p. 1358)
SPECIAL ACTS COMPARATIVE TABLE
This table shows the location of the sections of the Special Acts and any amendments thereto.
EXPAND
Ga. Laws
Year Act No. Page Section Section this
Special Acts
1937 354 3 1358 10
4 1358 16
6 1358 24
7 1358 25
1941 420 899 16
1945 142 1 744 1
3 744 19
1952 634 1 2365 10
1958 473 1 3418 16
1959 191 1 2573 6A
1 2573 6B
1967 235 1 2577 14
2 2577 16
1969 500 1 3617 16
1985 110 1 3820 1
2 3820 3
3 3820 8
4 3820 18
5 3820 19
1993 266 1 4916 16
2002 426 1 3736 1
2 3736 3
