ARTICLE II. - OCCUPATION TAX

Sec. 28-37. - Tax required for business dealings in the county.
Each person engaged in any business, trade, profession, or occupation in the county, whether with a location in the county or in the case of an out-of-state business with no location in Georgia exerting substantial efforts within the state pursuant to O.C.G.A. § 48-13-7, shall pay an annual occupation tax for said business, trade, profession, or occupation; which tax and any applicable registration shall be displayed in a conspicuous place in the place of business, if the taxpayer has a permanent business location in the county. If the taxpayer has no permanent business location in the county, such business tax registration shall be shown to the building and licensing official or his designee or to any police officer of the county upon request.
(Code 1987, § 11-26; Ord. of 12-19-1995, § 1)
Sec. 28-38. - Construction of terms; definitions.
(a)
Wherever the term "Liberty County" is used herein, such term shall be construed to mean Liberty County, Georgia, a body politic governed by the Liberty County Board of Commissioners, and wherever the term "county" is used herein, it shall be construed to mean the unincorporated areas of Liberty County, Georgia.
(b)
The following words, terms and phrases, when used in this article, shall have the meanings ascribed to them in this section, except where the context clearly indicates a different meaning:
Building and licensing official means the building and licensing official of Liberty County, Georgia.
Dominant line means the type of business, within a multiple-line business, that the greatest amount of income is derived from.
Employee means an individual whose work is performed under the direction and supervision of the employer and whose employer withholds FICA, federal income tax, or state income tax from such individual's compensation or whose employer issues to such individual for purposes of documenting compensation a form I.R.S. W-2 but not a form I.R.S. 1099.
Person shall be held to include sole proprietors, corporations, partnerships, or any other form of business organization, but specifically excludes nonprofit organizations and any state or local authority.
(c)
The definitions set forth in O.C.G.A. § 48-13-5 ("Specific, Business, and Occupation Taxes—Definitions") shall be effective as definitions of the words, terms and phrases used in this chapter. All words, terms and phrases used herein, other than those specifically defined elsewhere in this chapter, shall have the respective meanings ascribed to them in O.C.G.A. § 48-13-5, and shall have the same scope and effect that the same words, terms and phrases have where used in O.C.G.A. § 48-13-5.
(Code 1987, § 11-27; Ord. of 12-19-1995, § 2)
Sec. 28-39. - Administrative and regulatory fee structure.
(a)
A nonprorated, nonrefundable administrative fee shall be required on all business and occupation tax accounts for the initial start-up, relocation, or reopening of those accounts. The amount of the administrative fee shall be as established by the board of commissioners from time to time.
(b)
This occupation tax ordinance is not intended to address regulatory fees, and the imposition of regulatory fees by the county shall be governed by the pertinent general laws of the state and other provisions of this Code.
(Code 1987, § 11-28; Ord. of 12-19-1995, § 3)
Sec. 28-40. - Tax levied; schedule; restrictions.
(a)
Levied. An occupation tax shall be levied upon those businesses and practitioners of professions and occupations with one or more locations or offices in the county and/or upon the applicable out-of-state businesses with no location or office in Georgia pursuant to O.C.G.A. § 48-13-7 based upon the number of employees of the business or practitioner.
(b)
Occupation tax schedule. The tax rate determined by number of employees for each business, trade, profession, or occupation is as follows and will be developed and updated from time to time by the building and licensing official:
EXPAND
Employees Tax Liability
1—5 $100.00
6—15 200.00
16—30 300.00
31—50 400.00
50 or more 500.00
  (c)
Required taxes.
(1)
No business or practitioner shall be required to pay more than one occupation tax for each of its locations.
(2)
No occupation tax shall be required from those real estate brokers, real estate agents, or real estate companies whose offices are located outside the jurisdiction and who sell property inside the jurisdiction.
(d)
Filing of third quarter report. On or before the tenth day of November of each year, each person required to pay the occupation tax hereunder shall file with the building and licensing official the third quarter Employer's Quarterly Tax and Wage Report (DOL-4) that is required to be filed with the state.
(e)
Computation of number of employees. The number of employees of a business or practitioner is computed on a full-time position equivalent basis, provided that for the purposes of this computation an employee who works 40 hours or more weekly shall be considered a full-time employee and that the average weekly hours of employees who work less than 40 hours weekly shall be added and such sum shall be divided by 40 to produce full-time position equivalents.
(Code 1987, § 11-29; Ord. of 12-19-1995, § 4)
Sec. 28-41. - Paying tax of business with no location in Georgia.
Registration and assessment of an occupation tax is hereby imposed on those businesses and practitioners of professions with no location or office in the state if the business's largest dollar volume of business in Georgia is in the county and the business or practitioner:
(1)
Has one or more employees or agents who exert substantial efforts within the jurisdiction of the county for the purpose of soliciting business or serving customers or clients; or
(2)
Owns personal or real property which generates income and which is located within the jurisdiction of the county.
(Code 1987, § 11-30; Ord. of 12-19-1995, § 5)
Sec. 28-42. - Dominant line of business to be identified on business registration.
The business registration of each business operated in the county shall identify the dominant line of business that the business conducts.
(Code 1987, § 11-31; Ord. of 12-19-1995, § 6)
Sec. 28-43. - The number of businesses considered to be operating in the county.
Where a person conducts business at more than one fixed location, each location or place shall be considered a separate business for the purpose of occupation tax.
(Code 1987, § 11-32; Ord. of 12-19-1995, § 7)
Sec. 28-44. - Professionals as classified in O.C.G.A. § 48-13-9(c)(1) through (18).
Practitioners of professions as described in O.C.G.A. § 48-13-9(c)(1) through (18) shall elect as their entire occupation tax one of the following:
(1)
The occupation tax based on number of employees.
(2)
A fee per practitioner who is licensed to provide the service, such tax to be paid at the practitioner's office or location. The per-practitioner fee applies to each person in the business who qualifies as a practitioner under the state's regulatory guidelines and framework.
(3)
This election is to be made on an annual basis and must be done by January 1 of each year.
(4)
The amount of the fee shall be as established by the board of commissioners from time to time.
(Code 1987, § 11-33; Ord. of 12-19-1995, § 8)
Sec. 28-45. - Practitioners exclusively practicing for a government.
Any practitioner whose office is maintained by and who is employed in practice exclusively by the United States, the state, a municipality or county of the state, instrumentalities of the United States, the state, or municipality or county of the state shall not be required to obtain a license or pay an occupation tax for that practice.
(Code 1987, § 11-34; Ord. of 12-19-1995, § 9)
Sec. 28-46. - Purpose and scope of tax.
The occupation tax levied herein is for revenue purposes only and is not for regulatory purposes, nor is the payment of the tax made a condition precedent to the practice of any such profession, trade, or calling. The occupation tax only applies to those businesses and occupations which are covered by the provisions of O.C.G.A. §§ 48-13-4 through 48-13-28. All other applicable businesses and occupations are taxed by the local government pursuant to the pertinent general and/or local law and ordinance.
(Code 1987, § 11-35; Ord. of 12-19-1995, § 10)
Sec. 28-47. - When tax due and payable; effect of transacting business when tax delinquent.
(a)
Each such occupation tax shall be for the calendar year unless otherwise specifically provided. Said registration and occupation tax shall be payable January 1 of each year and shall, if not paid 90 days from the due date of the tax, be subject to penalties for delinquency as prescribed in this article. On any new profession, trade, or calling begun in the county in any year, the registration and tax shall be delinquent if not obtained within 30 days following the commencement of the business. Should the occupation tax required by this article remain due and unpaid 90 days from the above due date, the person liable for the tax shall be subject to and shall pay a penalty of ten percent of the tax due. Interest shall also be collected on all delinquent occupation taxes, regulatory fees and administrative fees at an interest rate of 1½ percent per month. The tax registration herein provided for shall be issued by the building and licensing official and if any person, firm, or corporation whose duty it is to obtain a registration shall, after said registration or occupation tax becomes delinquent, transact or offer to transact, in the county, any of the kind of profession, trade, or calling subject to this article without having first obtained said registration such offender shall be subject to the penalties set forth in section 28-53.
(b)
In addition to the above remedies, the business license officer may proceed to collect in the same manner as provided by law for tax executions.
(Code 1987, § 11-36; Ord. of 12-19-1995, § 11)
Sec. 28-48. - Exemption on grounds that entity is nonprofit organization, state or local authority.
No occupation tax, regulatory fee, or administrative fee shall be levied by this article against nonprofit organizations or against any state or local authority.
(Code 1987, § 11-37; Ord. of 12-19-1995, § 12)
Sec. 28-49. - Evidence of state licensure required if applicable; state license to be displayed.
(a)
Each person who is licensed by the secretary of state pursuant to O.C.G.A. title 43 shall provide evidence of proper and current state licensure before the county registration may be issued.
(b)
Each person who is licensed by the state shall post the state license in a conspicuous place in the licensee's place of business and shall keep the license there at all times while the license remains valid.
(Code 1987, § 11-38; Ord. of 12-19-1995, § 13)
Sec. 28-50. - Evidence of qualification required.
Any business required to obtain health permits, bonds, certificates of qualification, certificates of competency, or any other regulatory matter shall first, before the issuance of a county business registration, show evidence that such requirements have been met.
(Code 1987, § 11-39; Ord. of 12-19-1995, § 14)
Sec. 28-51. - Liability of officers and agents; registration required; failure to obtain.
All persons subject to the occupation tax levy pursuant to this article shall be required to obtain the necessary registration for said business as described in this article, and in default thereof the officer or agent soliciting for or representing such persons shall be subject to the same penalty as other persons who fail to obtain a registration. Every person commencing business in the county after January 1 of each year shall likewise obtain the registration herein provided for before commencing the same; and any person transacting, or offering to transact in the county, any of the kinds of business, trade, profession, or occupation without first having so obtained said registration, shall be subject to penalties provided thereof.
(Code 1987, § 11-40; Ord. of 12-19-1995, § 15)
Sec. 28-52. - Date of registration; effect of transacting business without registration.
(a)
Each such registration shall be for the calendar year in which the registration was obtained unless otherwise specifically provided. There is hereby imposed a penalty upon each business which fails to apply for and obtain an appropriate business registration provided herein. Every person commencing business in the county after January 1 of each year shall obtain the registration required within 30 days following the commencement of the business. Any person transacting or offering to transact in the county any business, trade, profession, or occupation without having obtained said registration within 30 days following the commencement of the business shall be subject to the penalties provided in section 28-53. Said penalties shall be in addition to all other penalties, civil and criminal herein provided; and may be collected by the remedies herein provided for collection of the occupation tax, and shall have the same lien and priority as the occupation tax to which the penalty is applied.
(b)
The registration herein provided for shall be issued by the business license officer, and if any person, firm, or corporation whose duty it is to obtain a registration shall, after said occupation tax becomes delinquent, transact or offer to transact, in the county, any of the kind of business, trade, profession, or occupation without having first obtained said registration, such offender shall be subject to the penalties provided thereof.
(Code 1987, § 11-41; Ord. of 12-19-1995, § 16)
Sec. 28-53. - Penalty of ordinance violation.
(a)
Violations, fines and punishments. It shall be unlawful for any person to violate a provision of this article, or fail to comply therewith, or with any of the requirements thereof. Each such person shall be considered guilty of a separate offense for each and every day or portion thereof during which any violation of any of the provisions of this article is committed or continued, and upon conviction of any such violation such person shall be fined not more than $1,000.00 or imprisoned for not more than 60 days, or both, and in addition shall pay all costs and expenses involved in the case. Each day or portion thereof such violation continues shall be considered a separate offense. Nothing herein contained shall prevent the business license officer from taking such other lawful action as is necessary to prevent or remedy any violation.
(b)
Jurisdiction. The magistrate's court of the county shall have jurisdiction over violations of this article. Complaints of violations of any provision of this article shall be brought before the magistrate's court on a citation issued by the business license officer or the chief magistrate of the county and shall be prosecuted through that court. Violations of this article will be tried upon citations either with or without a prosecuting attorney as determined by the county. Service of citation shall be performed by the constable of the magistrate's court of the county. Citations shall meet all of the requirements as specified in O.C.G.A. § 15-10-63, as amended.
(Code 1987, § 11-42; Ord. of 12-19-1995, § 17)
Sec. 28-54. - Businesses not covered by this article.
The following businesses are not covered by the provisions of this article but may be assessed an occupation tax or other type of tax pursuant to the provisions of other general laws of the state or by local law:
(1)
Those businesses regulated by the Georgia Public Service Commission.
(2)
Those electrical service businesses organized under O.C.G.A. Title 46, Chapter 3.
(3)
Any farm operation for the production from or on the land of agricultural products, but not including agribusiness.
(4)
Cooperative marketing associations governed by O.C.G.A. § 2-10-105.
(5)
Insurance companies governed by O.C.G.A. § 33-8-8 et seq.
(6)
Motor common carriers governed by O.C.G.A. § 46-7-15.
(7)
Those businesses governed by O.C.G.A. § 48-5-355. (Businesses that purchase carload lots of guano, meats, meal, flour, bran, cottonseed, or cottonseed meal and hulls.)
(8)
Agricultural products and livestock raised in the state governed by O.C.G.A. § 48-5-356.
(9)
Depository financial institutions governed by O.C.G.A. § 48-6-93.
(10)
Facilities operated by a charitable trust governed by O.C.G.A. § 48-13-55.
(Code 1987, § 11-43; Ord. of 12-19-1995, § 18)
Sec. 28-55. - When tax due and payable.
The amount of occupation tax shall be payable to the business license officer at the office of the business license officer, on January 1 each year and delinquent if not paid 90 days from the due date of the tax.
(Code 1987, § 11-44; Ord. of 12-19-1995, § 19)
Sec. 28-56. - Payment of tax by newly established businesses.
(a)
In the case of a business subject to occupation tax for a calendar year, which was not conducted for any period of time in the county in the preceding year, the owner, proprietor, manager, or executive officer of the business liable for occupation tax shall estimate the number of employees from commencing date to the end of the calendar year and such tax shall be due and payable on the date of the commencement of the business.
(b)
When any person commences business on or after July 1, in any year, the occupation tax payable hereunder for the remaining portion of the year shall be 50 percent of the tax imposed for the entire year.
(Code 1987, § 11-45; Ord. of 12-19-1995, § 20)
Sec. 28-57. - More than one place or line of business.
Where a business is operated at more than one place or where the business includes more than one line, said business will pay an occupation tax in accordance with the prevailing taxing method and tax rate for the dominant line at each location.
(Code 1987, § 11-46; Ord. of 12-19-1995, § 21)
Sec. 28-58. - Returns confidential.
Except in the case of judicial proceedings or other proceedings necessary to collect the occupation tax hereby levied, it shall be unlawful for any officer, employee, agent, or business license officer, or any other person to divulge or make known in any manner the amount of gross receipts or any particulars set forth or disclosed in any occupation tax return required under this article. All contents of said return shall be confidential and open only to the officials, employees, agents, or business license officer using said returns for the purpose of this occupation tax levy and the collection of the tax. Independent auditors or bookkeepers employed by the county shall be classed as "employees." Nothing herein shall be construed to prohibit the publication by county officials of statistics, so classified as to prevent the identification of particular reports or returns and items thereof; or the inspection of the records by duly qualified employees of the tax departments of the State of Georgia, the United States, and other local governments.
(Code 1987, § 11-47; Ord. of 12-19-1995, § 22)
Sec. 28-59. - Inspections of books and records.
In any case the business license officer for the county or his designee may inspect the books of the business or person for which the returns are made. The business license officer shall have the right to inspect the books or records for the business of which the return was made in the county, and upon demand of the business license officer, such books or records shall be submitted for inspection by a representative of the business license officer within 30 days. Failure of submission of such books or records within 30 days shall be grounds for revocation of the tax registration currently existing to do business in the county. Adequate records shall be kept in the county, for examination by the building and licensing official at his discretion. If, after examination of the books or records, it is determined that a deficiency occurs as a result of underreporting, a penalty of 125 percent of the prime interest rate times the amount deficient will be assessed for the period delinquent. For purposes of this section, the prime interest rate shall be that which is published by the Wall Street Journal on the first business day of the year in which the underreporting is identified.
(Code 1987, § 11-48; Ord. of 12-19-1995, § 23)
Sec. 28-60. - Tax registration to be revoked for failure to pay tax; file returns; permit inspection of books.
Upon the failure of any business to pay said occupation tax or any part thereof before it becomes delinquent, or upon failure to make any of said returns within the time required herein, or upon failure to make a true return, or upon failure to amend a return to set forth the truth, or upon failure to permit inspection of its books as above provided, any business tax registration granted by the business license officer under this article, permitting the owner of said business to do business for the current year shall be, ipso facto, revoked. No new business tax registration shall be granted by the business license officer for the operation of a business for which any part of the occupation tax herein provided for is at that time unpaid, or to an individual, firm, or corporation who has failed to submit adequate records as requested by the business license officer. In the case of those practitioners where the local government cannot suspend the right of the practitioner to conduct business, the imposition of civil penalties shall be permitted and pursued by the local government in the case of delinquent occupation tax.
(Code 1987, § 11-49; Ord. of 12-19-1995, § 24)
Sec. 28-61. - Effect of failure to comply with article provisions; continuing in business after tax registration revocation.
Any persons, their managers, agents, or employees who do business in the county after the registration for said business has been revoked as set forth in this article is hereby required to make occupation tax returns, and who fail to make said returns within the time and in the manner herein provided, who refuse to amend such returns so as to set forth the truth, or who shall make false returns; and any persons, their managers, agents, or employees who refuse to permit an inspection of books in their charge when the officers, agents, employees, or representatives of the county request such inspection, during business hours, for the purpose of determining the accuracy of the returns herein provided for, shall be subject to the penalties provided for in this article. In the case of those practitioners where the local government cannot suspend the right of the practitioner to conduct business, the imposition of civil penalties shall be permitted and pursued by the local government in the case of delinquent occupation tax.
(Code 1987, § 11-50; Ord. of 12-19-1995, § 25)
Sec. 28-62. - Lien taken for delinquent tax.
In addition to the other remedies herein provided for the collection of the occupation tax herein levied, the business license officer, upon any tax or installment of said tax becoming delinquent and remaining unpaid, shall issue execution for the correct amount of said tax against the persons, partnership, or corporation liable for said tax, which said execution shall bear interest at the rate of ten percent per annum from the date when such tax or installment becomes delinquent, and the lien shall cover the property (in the county) of the person, partnership, or corporation liable for said tax, all as provided by the laws of Georgia. The lien of said occupation tax shall become fixed on and dated from the time when such tax or any installment thereof becomes delinquent. The execution shall be levied by the business license officer or other appropriate officer of the county upon the property of a defendant located in said jurisdiction, and sufficient property shall be advertised and sold to pay the amount of said execution, with interest and costs. All other proceedings in relation thereto shall be had as is provided by the laws of Georgia, and the defendant in said execution shall have the rights of defense, by affidavit of illegality and otherwise, which are provided by the applicable laws in regard to tax executions. Then a nulla bona entry has been entered by proper authority upon an execution issued by the business license officer against any person defaulting on the occupation tax, the person against whom the entry was made shall not be allowed or entitled to have or collect any fees or charges whatsoever for services rendered after the entry of the nulla bona. If, at any time after the entry of nulla bona has been made, the person against whom the execution issued pays the tax in full together with all interest and costs accrued on the tax, the person may collect any fees and charges due him or her as though he or she had never defaulted in the payment of the taxes.
(Code 1987, § 11-51; Ord. of 12-19-1995, § 26)
Sec. 28-63. - Amendment, repeal of provision.
This article shall be subject to amendment or repeal, in whole or in part, at any time, and no such amendment or repeal shall be construed to deny the right of the county to assess and collect any of the taxes or other charges prescribed. Said amendment may increase or lower the amounts and tax rates of any occupation and may change the classification thereof. The payment of any occupation tax provided for shall not be construed as prohibiting the levy or collection by the jurisdiction of additional occupation taxes upon the same person, property, or business.
(Code 1987, § 11-52; Ord. of 12-19-1995, § 27)
Sec. 28-64. - Provisions to remain in full force and effect until changed by governing body.
This article shall remain in full force and effect until changed by amendment adopted by the county. All provisions hereto relating to any form of tax herein levied shall remain in full force and effect until such taxes have been paid in full.
(Code 1987, § 11-53; Ord. of 12-19-1995, § 28)
Sec. 28-65. - Applications of provisions to prior ordinance.
This article does not repeal or affect the force of any part of any ordinance heretofore passed where taxes levied under such prior ordinance have not been paid in full. So much and such parts of ordinances heretofore and hereinafter passed as provided for the issuing and enforcing of execution for any tax or assessment required by such ordinances, or that imposed fines or penalties for the nonpayment of such tax, or for failure to pay regulatory fees provided for in said ordinance or ordinances, or failure to comply with any other provisions hereof, shall continue and remain in force until such tax, regulatory fee, or assessment shall be fully paid. In all other respects, said prior ordinance shall be repealed upon adoption of this article.
(Code 1987, § 11-54; Ord. of 12-19-1995, § 29)
Sec. 28-66. - Requirement of public hearing regarding disposition of increase in occupational tax revenue.
In any year when revenue from occupation taxes is greater than revenue from occupation taxes for the preceding year, the county shall hold a public hearing as a part of the process of determining how to use the additional revenue.
(Code 1987, § 11-55; Ord. of 12-19-1995, § 30)
Sec. 28-67. - Requirement of public hearing before adopting any ordinance or resolution regarding tax.
The county shall conduct at least one public hearing before adopting any ordinance or resolution regarding the occupation tax as set forth in this article.
(Code 1987, § 11-56; Ord. of 12-19-1995, § 31)
Sec. 28-68. - Option to establish exemption or reduction in tax.
The county may by subsequent ordinance or resolution provide for an exemption or reduction in occupation tax to one or more types of businesses or practitioners of occupations or professions as part of a plan for economic development or attracting or encouraging selected types of businesses or practitioners of selected occupations or professions. Such exemptions or reductions in occupation tax shall not be arbitrary or capricious, and the reasons shall be set forth in the minutes of the governing authority.
(Code 1987, § 11-57; Ord. of 12-19-1995, § 32)
Sec. 28-69. - Conflicts between specific and general provisions.
Where there is an apparent conflict in this article between specific and general provisions, it is the intention hereof that the specific shall control.
(Code 1987, § 11-58; Ord. of 12-19-1995, § 33)
Secs. 28-70—28-96. - Reserved.
