ARTICLE III. - MAYOR
Section 3-101. Election; term.
Section 3-102. Qualifications of office.
Section 3-103. Compensation.
Section 3-104. Powers and duties.
Section 3-105. Voting.
Section 3-106. Vacancy in office of mayor.

Section 3-101. - Election; term.
There is hereby created the office of "mayor of Athens-Clarke County, Georgia" (referred to at times in this Charter as the "mayor"). The mayor shall be elected from the unified government at-large and shall serve part-time for a term of four (4) years and until a successor is elected and qualified. Any mayor who has been elected for two (2) full consecutive four-year terms of office under the provisions of this Charter shall not be eligible to be elected for the succeeding term.
(Ord. of 7-2-96, § 1; Ord. of 7-6-99, § 1)
Section 3-102. - Qualifications of office.
(a)
To be eligible for election as mayor, a person on the date of election must:
(1)
Have attained the age of twenty-one (21) years;
(2)
Have resided in the territory of the unified government for at least one (1) year immediately preceding the date of election and must continue such residence therein during the term of office;
(3)
Be a registered voter of the unified government; and
(4)
Meet any other requirements as established by law.
(b)
No person elected as mayor shall, during that person's term of office, hold any other federal, state or local government office.
(Ord. of 7-2-96, § 1; Ord. of 7-6-99, § 1)
Section 3-103. - Compensation.
(a)
The mayor shall receive as compensation for the services of this office an annual salary of $45,000.00, payable in equal monthly installments.
(b)
In addition to the salary, the mayor shall be reimbursed for all direct expenses incurred in carrying out the duties and responsibilities of the unified government.
(c)
The salary and expenses of members of the mayor may be changed by ordinance, subject to the following conditions:
(1)
No action to increase the salary or expenses of the mayor shall be taken until notice of intent to take the action has been published in the official legal organ of Athens-Clarke County at least once a week for three (3) successive weeks immediately preceding the week during which the action is taken;
(2)
Any action to increase the salary of the mayor shall not become effective until the date of commencement of the term of the mayor elected at the next regular election following such action; and
(3)
No action to increase the salary of the mayor shall be taken during the period between the date when candidates for election to the office of mayor may first qualify as candidates and the date when the newly elected mayor takes office following the election.
(Ord. of 7-2-96, § 1; Ord. of 7-6-99, § 1; 2001 Ga. Laws, page 3873, § 2)
Section 3-104. - Powers and duties.
The mayor shall have the powers and duties to:
(a)
Serve as the official representative of the unified government including serving as the unified government's representative to federal, state and local governmental bodies and officials;
(b)
Initiate the process, with the involvement of commission members and appropriate staff, to search and screen candidates for the positions of manager, attorney, and internal auditor and to recommend candidates for these positions to the commission (appointment requires concurrence of a majority of the entire commission);
(c)
Set the agenda, after receiving input from members of the commission, the manager and the public, for meetings of the commission;
(d)
Preside over meetings of the commission;
(e)
Make committee appointments;
(f)
Present a proposed annual budget and a proposed capital improvements budget, which has been prepared by the manager with the assistance of all department and agency heads and all others who supervise the implementation of a budget that uses funds of the unified government for approval by the mayor, to the commission;
(g)
Approve or veto proposed ordinances or resolutions as provided by this Charter;
(h)
Call special meetings of the commission as provided by this Charter and by rules of the commission;
(i)
Execute all deeds, contracts and obligations of the unified government except for contracts exempted from this requirement by section 7-501; such execution shall be attested to by the clerk;
(j)
Recommend to the commission the adoption of such measures as deemed necessary or expedient; and
(k)
Perform any other duties and exercise any other powers required by state or federal law or authorized by a duly adopted ordinance that is not in conflict with this Charter.
(Ord. of 7-2-96, § 1; Ord. of 7-6-99, § 1; Ord. of 12-4-2001, § 3; Ord. of 4-7-2015(1) , § 3)
Section 3-105. - Voting.
The mayor shall not be authorized to vote on any matter before the commission except in the case of ties.
(Ord. of 7-2-96, § 1; Ord. 7-6-99, § 1)
Section 3-106. - Vacancy in office of mayor.
In the event that the office of mayor shall become vacant by reason of death, resignation or any other cause, the vacancy shall be filled by the mayor pro-tempore who shall serve as mayor with all powers of the mayor until a new mayor is selected as provided below:
(a)
If the term of the mayor will expire in less than one hundred eighty (180) days, the mayor pro-tempore shall serve as the mayor until the next general election when a new mayor will be elected.
(b)
If the term of the mayor will continue for more than one hundred eighty (180) days, a special election shall be held as provided in general law to elect a new mayor for the remainder of the vacant mayor's term.
(Ord. of 7-2-96, § 1; Ord. of 7-6-99, § 1)
