APPENDIX B. - TRANSITION SCHEDULE AND PLAN
The following four-stage transition plan shall govern the implementation of this Act:
Stage 1: Referendum on Charter to Initial Election
Upon approval of the unification, a transition team shall be formed. The transition team will be appointed and charged with anticipating implementation responsibilities, issues and opportunities related to the unification of the two (2) governments. Their effort will involve collecting data, assembling facts and presenting options to the unified government officials when they take office. The transition team does not have any decision-making power and will serve in an advisory function to the new government until such time as the newly elected officials assume the responsibilities described below.
The transition team shall consist of: the county administrator; the city administrator; one (1) appointee of the mayor of the City of Athens who shall not be an elected official nor an employee of the City of Athens; one (1) appointee of the chairman of the Clarke County Board of Commissioners who shall not be an elected official nor an employee of Clarke County; two (2) individuals appointed by the mayor of Winterville neither of whom shall be an elected official or an employee of the city and three members of the Charter commission selected by the Charter commission, one (1) of whom shall serve as chair of the transition team.
Stage 2: Initial Election to January 1, 1991
The newly elected government assumes limited powers to plan for new government. During this time, the mayor and commission may exercise the following powers:
(a)
Begin preparation for the appointment of the manager, attorney and auditor;
(b)
Hold meetings, establish committees, plan the establishment of boundaries of the general and urban services districts, and plan for and schedule the initial organization of the unified government in accordance with the applicable provisions of this Charter. The mayor and commission shall be authorized to receive and expend appropriations from the Athens City Council and the Clarke County Board of Commissioners for the purposes of performing its responsibilities as provided herein;
(c)
Initiation of the preparation of the initial (FY 1992) budget of the unified government;
(d)
Begin preparation of plans and schedules for the unification of the various departments and agencies of the City of Athens and Clarke County;
(e)
All officers, officials and employees of the City of Athens and Clarke County shall cooperate and assist the mayor and commission and other officers of the unified government in planning for and scheduling the unification of departments, boards, commissions of said former governments, and in transferring functions, duties and responsibilities of such departments, boards, commissions and agencies to the appropriate agencies of the unified government and in all other respects in order that the transfer of the governmental and corporate functions of the former governments shall be accomplished in the most orderly manner possible. The mayor, commission and officers of the unified government shall be entitled to examine all records, files and other data in possession of the former governments and all officers, officials and employees thereof. The former governments shall, to the extent possible, provide working areas and facilities to the transition team and the newly elected mayor and commission of the unified government.
Stage 3: January 1, 1991 to June 30, 1991
The unified government takes office operating under the combined city and county budgets subject to the budget and employee caps specified above. The unified government budget for FY 1992 is prepared. During this period the government would begin combining operations.
Stage 4: July 1, 1991 to June 30, 1992
The unified government begins operation under the first unified government budget. The budget for this fiscal year, FY 1992, shall be capped by combining the FY 1991 budgets of the city and county, plus increases due to inflation.
(Ord. of 7-2-96, ยง 1; Ord. of 7-6-99, ยง 1)
