CHAPTER 1-1. - GENERAL PROVISIONS[2]
Sec. 1-1-1. How Code designated and cited.
Sec. 1-1-2. Rules of construction.
Sec. 1-1-3. Catchlines of sections.
Sec. 1-1-4. Severability of parts of Code.
Sec. 1-1-5. General penalty; continuing violations; notice of ordinance violation; citation for ordinance violation.
Sec. 1-1-6. Effect of repeal of ordinances.
Sec. 1-1-7. Amendments to Code; effect of new ordinances; amendatory language.
Sec. 1-1-8. Altering Code.
Sec. 1-1-9. Supplementation of Code.
Sec. 1-1-10. Certain ordinances not affected by Code.

Footnotes:
--- (2) ---
Charter reference— General provisions, Art. VII.
State Law reference— Ordinances generally, O.C.G.A. § 36-35-3.

Sec. 1-1-1. - How Code designated and cited.
The ordinances embraced in the following chapters and sections shall constitute and be designated as "The Code of Athens-Clarke County, Georgia," and may be so cited.
Charter reference— Codification and printing of ordinances, § 2-207.
State Law reference— Exemplification of municipal minutes and other records, O.C.G.A. § 24-7-21.
Sec. 1-1-2. - Rules of construction.
In the construction of this Code and of all ordinances, the following rules shall be observed, unless such construction would be inconsistent with the manifest intent of the mayor and commission:
Chief elected officer or CEO. The chief elected officer of the Unified Government of Athens-Clarke County, Georgia.
Computation of time. Except as otherwise provided by time period computations specifically applying to other laws or ordinances, when a period of time measured in days, weeks, months, years, or other measurements of time except hours is prescribed for the exercise of any privilege or the discharge of any duty, the first day shall not be counted but the last day shall be counted; and, if the last day falls on Saturday or Sunday, the party having such privilege or duty shall have through the following Monday to exercise the privilege or to discharge the duty. When the last day prescribed for such action falls on a public and legal holiday as set forth in O.C.G.A. § 1-4-1, the party having the privilege or duty shall have through the next business day to exercise the privilege or to discharge the duty. When the period of time prescribed is less than seven days, intermediate Saturdays, Sundays, and legal holidays shall be excluded in the computation."
Gender. A word importing the masculine gender only shall extend and be applied to females and to associations, firms, partnerships and corporations as well as to males.
Health department. The term "health department" shall mean the Athens-Clarke County Health Department.
Interpretation. In the interpretation and application of any provision of this Code, it shall be held to be the minimum requirement adopted for the promotion of the public health, safety, comfort, convenience and general welfare. Where any provision of the Code imposes greater restrictions upon the subject matter than the general provision imposed by the Code, the provision imposing the greater restriction or regulation shall be deemed to be controlling.
Joint authority. All words giving a joint authority to three or more officers or other persons shall be construed as giving such authority to a majority of such officers or other persons.
Keeper, proprietor. The words "keeper" and "proprietor" shall mean natural persons, firms, associations, corporations, clubs and copartnerships, whether acting by themselves or as a servant, agent or employee.
Limits, corporation. The word "limits" or "corporation," shall mean the corporate limits (legal boundary) of Athens-Clarke County.
Mayor and chair or mayor. The chief elected officer of the Unified Government of Athens-Clarke County, Georgia.
Month. The word "month" shall mean a calendar month.
Nontechnical and technical words. Words and phrases shall be construed according to the common and approved usage of the language; but technical words and phrases and such others as may have acquired a peculiar and appropriate meaning in law shall be construed and understood according to that meaning.
Number. A word importing the singular number only may extend and be applied to several persons and things as well as to one person or thing, and the plural shall also include the singular.
Oath. The word "oath" includes an affirmation. When an oath is required or authorized by law, an affirmation in lieu thereof may be taken. An affirmation has the same force and effect as an oath.
O.C.G.A. The letters "O.C.G.A." shall mean the Official Code of Georgia Annotated, as amended.
Or, and. The word "or" may be read "and," and the word "and" may be read "or," if the sense requires it.
Owner. The word "owner," applied to a building or land, shall include any part owner, joint owner, tenant in common, tenant in partnership or joint tenant of the whole or of a part of such building or land.
Person. The word "person" shall extend and be applied to associations, firms, partnerships, joint-stock companies and bodies politic and corporate as well as to individuals.
Personal property. "Personal property" includes every species of property except real property, as herein defined.
Preceding, following. The words "preceding" and "following" mean next before and next after, respectively.
Property. The word "property" includes real, personal and mixed estates and interests.
Public place. The term "public place" shall mean any place including, but not limited to, buildings or conveyances to which the public has, or is permitted to have, access, including restaurants, soda fountains, hotel dining rooms, lobbies and corridors of hotels, and any highway, street, lane, park or place of public resort or amusement.
Real property. The term "real property" shall include lands, tenements and hereditaments.
Shall, may. The word "shall" is mandatory; the word "may" is permissive.
Sidewalk. The word "sidewalk" shall mean that portion of a street between the curb lines, or the lateral lines of a roadway, and the adjacent property lines, intended for use by pedestrians.
Signature, subscription. The word "signature" or "subscription" shall include a mark when the person cannot write.
State. The words "the state" or "this state" shall mean the State of Georgia.
Street. The word "street" shall mean the entire width between boundary lines of every way publicly maintained when any part thereof is open to the use of the public for purposes of vehicular travel.
Tenant, occupant. The word "tenant" or "occupant," of a building or land, shall include any person holding a written or oral lease of, or who occupies the whole or a part of, such building or land, either alone or with others.
Tense. Words used in the past or present tense include the future as well as the past and present.
Title of officer, department or other agency. Whenever the title of an officer (such as "mayor," "sheriff" or "chief building official") or the title of a department or other agency is given, it shall be construed as though the words "of the Athens-Clarke County," were added thereto.
Traffic engineer. The term "traffic engineer" shall mean the traffic engineer of Athens-Clarke County.
Unified Government. The term "Unified Government" shall mean the county-wide government, a body politic and corporate, and a subdivision of the state, known herein in full as the "Unified Government of Athens-Clarke County, Georgia," having all the governmental and corporate powers, duties and functions heretofore held by and vested in the City of Athens and Clarke County, and also the powers, duties and functions provided for in the Charter adopted August 7, 1990.
Week. The word "week" shall mean seven days.
Written, in writing. The term "written" or "in writing" shall include any representation of words, letters or figures, whether by printing or otherwise.
Year. The word "year" shall mean a calendar year.
(Ord. of 7-2-96, § 1; Ord. of 7-6-99, § 1; Ord. of 6-6-2006, § 1)
Editor's note— An ordinance enacted June 4, 1996, amended the Charter of the Unified Government by deleting the terms "CEO" and "chief elected officer" whenever and wherever they appeared in the Charter and by substituting the term "mayor and chair" in their place. Likewise, an ordinance of July 2, 1996, amended the Code of Athens-Clarke County by deleting the terms "CEO" and "chief elected officer" whenever and wherever they appear in said Code and by substituting the "mayor and chair" in lieu thereof. Subsequently, an ordinance of July 6, 1999, amended the Code by deleting the term "mayor and chair" whenever and wherever it appears in the Code and substituting the term "mayor" in lieu thereof. In order to maximize printing costs, the terms "CEO", "chief elected officer", and "mayor and chair" will in the future be changed only when individual pages of the Code are affected by other changes requiring reprinting of those pages.
State Law reference— Construction of statutes, O.C.G.A. § 1-3-1 et seq.; computation of time under Civil Practice Act, O.C.G.A. § 9-11-6; "street" defined, O.C.G.A. § 40-1-1(58).
Sec. 1-1-3. - Catchlines of sections.
The catchlines of the several sections of this Code printed in boldface type are intended as mere catchwords to indicate the contents of the section and shall not be deemed or taken to be titles of such sections nor as any part of the section, nor, unless expressly so provided, shall they be so deemed when any of such sections, including the catchlines, are amended or re-enacted.
Charter reference— Similar provisions as to charter, § 8-118.
Sec. 1-1-4. - Severability of parts of Code.
It is hereby declared to be the intention of the mayor and commission that the sections, paragraphs, sentences, clauses and phrases of this Code are severable, and if any phrase, clause, sentence, paragraph or section of this Code shall be declared unconstitutional or otherwise invalid by the valid judgment or decree of any court of competent jurisdiction, such invalidity shall not affect any of the remaining phrases, clauses, sentences, paragraphs and sections of this Code, since the same would have been enacted by the mayor and commission without the incorporation in this Code of any such invalid phrase, clause, sentence, paragraph or section.
(Ord. of 7-2-96, § 1; Ord. of 7-6-99, § 1)
Charter reference— Severability of charter provisions, § 7-104.
Sec. 1-1-5. - General penalty; continuing violations; notice of ordinance violation; citation for ordinance violation.
(a)
General penalty and continuing violations. Whenever in this Code or in any ordinance of Athens-Clarke County any act is prohibited or is made or declared to be unlawful or an offense, or whenever in this Code or in any ordinance the doing of any act is declared to be unlawful, where no specific penalty is provided therefor, the violation of that provision of this Code or that ordinance shall be punished by a fine not to exceed $1,000.00 or imprisonment for a term not exceeding six months, or any combination thereof, subject to all limitations contained in the Charter of Athens-Clarke County. Each day any violation of this Code or of any ordinance shall continue shall constitute a separate offense.
(b)
Notice of ordinance violation. Notwithstanding any other provisions of this Code, violations of Athens-Clarke County Code section 9-30-8 F., regarding parking on unimproved surfaces in single family districts, and violations of Athens-Clarke County Code section 5-2-14(a), regarding leaving trash receptacles out on a non-collection day, may be enforced by a notice of ordinance violation issued by any police officer, marshal, deputy marshal or code enforcement officer as provided below:
(1)
Ordinance violations charged by means of a notice shall not be punishable by imprisonment but shall be punishable by a fine of $50.00.
(2)
A notice of ordinance violation may be served by delivery into the hands of the suspected violator or by leaving the notice of ordinance violation at the suspected violator's residence with a person of suitable age and discretion residing therein, or by leaving the notice of ordinance violation at the suspected violator's place of business if the violation occurs at the business location, with a person of suitable age and discretion employed therein.
(3)
Alternative to the provisions of subsection (2) above, a notice of ordinance violation may be served by substituted service as follows:
a.
For violations of Athens-Clarke County Code section 9-30-8 F., the notice of ordinance violation may be placed on the front windshield of the illegally-parked vehicle in a fashion reasonably calculated to secure the notice of ordinance violation in place. Notices served according to this subsection shall be conspicuously marked and placed in a waterproof packet.
b.
For violations of Athens-Clarke County Code section 5-2-14(a), the notice of ordinance violation may be served by securely attaching the notice of ordinance violation to the front door of the primary residential or business structure on the property served by the illegally-placed receptacle or to other door to said structure reasonably appearing to provide the primary point of egress to said residence or business. A notice of ordinance violation served according to this subsection shall be posted on the upper part of the door, shall be conspicuously marked and shall be placed in a waterproof packet.
(4)
Violators may respond to a notice of ordinance violation either by signing the notice and returning the notice along with payment of the fine indicated thereon to the Municipal Court of Athens-Clarke County by the date indicated on the notice or by appearing in the Municipal Court to plead not guilty to the charged violation at the date and time provided on the notice. No proceedings for contempt or arrest shall be initiated for failure to appear on the return date on the notice.
(5)
Violators who fail to respond to a notice of ordinance violation as provided for in subsection (4) above may thereafter be served personally with an ordinance violation citation or accusation, and criminally prosecuted pursuant to section 1-1-5(a) above.
(c)
Citation for ordinance violation. Except as provided in subsections (1) and (2) below, no person shall be arrested and detained prior to trial for violating any provision of the Athens-Clarke County Code. A law enforcement officer shall issue a citation in lieu of pretrial detention. The citation shall identify the section of the Code violated, the date of the violation, the date and time of the court hearing on the violation, and the address of the Athens-Clarke County Municipal Court where the hearing will be held. Each citation shall have a unique identifying number.
(1)
A person may be detained for a violation of Section 3-5-1(b)—(g), Disorderly Conduct, if the arresting officer has probable cause to believe that the person accused of violating Section 3-5-1(b)—(g) committed an act of violence or threatened an act of violence against another person.
(2)
A person may be detained for a violation of Section 3-5-4, Intoxication, if the arresting officer has probable cause to believe that a person accused of violating Section 3-5-4 is intoxicated to the extent that he or she poses a danger to himself or herself or others, or the property of another.
(3)
Notwithstanding subsections (1) and (2) above, a person may be detained for any offense in the Athens-Clarke County Code when the person:
a.
Fails to identify himself/herself/themselves satisfactorily;
b.
Refuses to sign the citation after the law enforcement officer explains that the citation does not constitute an admission of guilt and represents only the accused's promise to appear; or
c.
Has previously failed to appear in response to a citation, summons, or other legal process in the Athens-Clarke County Municipal Court.
(d)
Section not exclusive. The infliction of a penalty under the provisions of this section shall not prevent the revocation of any permit or license or the taking of other punitive or remedial action where called for or permitted under the provisions of the Charter of the Unified Government of Athens-Clarke County or this Code.
(Ord. of 8-8-91, § 1; Ord. of 12-2-2003, § 1; Ord. of 6-4-2019(9), § 1 )
Charter reference— Judiciary generally, Art. V; municipal court, § 5-106.
Cross reference— Municipal court, Ch. 1-4.
State Law reference— Confinement of violators of ordinances, O.C.G.A. § 36-30-8.
Sec. 1-1-6. - Effect of repeal of ordinances.
(a)
The repeal of an ordinance shall not revive any ordinance in force before or at the time the ordinance repealed took effect.
(b)
The repeal of an ordinance shall not affect any punishment or penalty incurred before the repeal took effect, nor any suit, prosecution or proceeding pending at the time of the repeal, for an offense committed or cause of action arising under the ordinance repealed.
Charter reference— Existing ordinances, etc., § 9-109; general repealer for charter, § 8-121.
State Law reference— Operation of laws, O.C.G.A. § 1-3-5.
Sec. 1-1-7. - Amendments to Code; effect of new ordinances; amendatory language.
(a)
All ordinances passed subsequent to this Code which amend, repeal or in any way affect this Code may be numbered in accordance with the numbering system of this Code and printed for inclusion herein. Chapters, sections and subsections or any part thereof repealed by subsequent ordinances may be excluded from the Code by omission from reprinted pages affected thereby. Any and all additions and amendments to this Code, when passed in such form as to indicate the intention of the mayor and commission to make the same a part hereof, shall be deemed to be incorporated herein, so that reference to the Code shall be understood and intended to include such additions and amendments.
(b)
Amendments to any of the provisions of this Code may be made by amending these provisions by specific reference to the section number of this Code in the following language: "That section _____ of The Code of Athens-Clarke County, Georgia, is hereby amended to read as follows:…" The new provisions may then be set out in full as desired.
(c)
In the event a new section not heretofore existing in the Code is to be added, the following language may be used: "That The Code of Athens-Clarke County, Georgia, is hereby amended by adding a section (or article or chapter) to be numbered _____, which section (or article or chapter) reads as follows:…" The new provisions may then be set out in full as desired.
(d)
All sections, articles, chapters or other provisions desired to be repealed shall be specifically repealed by section, article or chapter number, as the case may be.
(Ord. of 7-2-96, § 1; Ord. of 7-6-99, § 1)
Sec. 1-1-8. - Altering Code.
It shall be unlawful for any person in Athens-Clarke County to change or amend by additions or deletions any part or portion of this Code, or to insert or delete pages or portions thereof, or to alter or tamper with this Code in any manner except by ordinance or other official act of the mayor and commission, which will cause the law of Athens-Clarke County to be misrepresented.
(Ord. of 7-2-96, § 1; Ord. of 7-6-99, § 1)
Sec. 1-1-9. - Supplementation of Code.
(a)
By contract or by city personnel, supplements to this Code shall be prepared and printed whenever authorized or directed by the mayor and commission. A supplement to the Code shall include all substantive parts of permanent and general ordinances passed by the mayor and commission during the period covered by the supplement and all changes made thereby in the Code. The pages of a supplement shall be so numbered that they will fit properly into the Code and will, where necessary, replace pages which have become obsolete or partially obsolete, and the new pages shall be so prepared that, when they have been inserted, the Code will be current through the date of the adoption of the latest ordinance included in the supplement.
(b)
In the preparation of a supplement to this Code, all portions of the Code which have been repealed shall be excluded from the Code by the omission thereof from reprinted pages.
(c)
When preparing a supplement to this Code, the codifier (meaning the person, agency or organization authorized to prepare the supplement) may make formal, nonsubstantive changes in ordinances and parts of ordinances included in the supplement, insofar as it is necessary to do so to embody them into a unified Code. For example, the codifier may:
(1)
Organize the ordinance material into appropriate subdivisions;
(2)
Provide appropriate catchlines, headings and titles for sections and other subdivisions of the Code printed in the supplement, and make changes in such catchlines, headings, and titles;
(3)
Assign appropriate numbers to sections and other subdivisions to be inserted in the Code and, where necessary to accommodate new material, change existing section or other subdivision numbers;
(4)
Change the words "this ordinance" or words of the same meaning to "this chapter," "this article," "this division," etc., as the case may be or to "sections _____ to _____" (inserting section numbers to indicate the sections of the Code which embody the substantive sections of the ordinance incorporated in the Code); and
(5)
Make other nonsubstantive changes necessary to preserve the original meaning of the ordinance sections inserted in the Code; but, in no case, shall the codifier make any change in the meaning or effect of ordinance material included in the supplement or already embodied in the Code.
(Ord. of 7-2-96, § 1; Ord. of 7-6-99, § 1)
Sec. 1-1-10. - Certain ordinances not affected by Code.
Nothing in this Code or the ordinance adopting this Code shall be construed to repeal or otherwise affect the validity of any of the following:
(1)
Any offense or act committed or done, or any penalty or forfeiture incurred, or any contact or right established or accruing before the effective date of this Code;
(2)
Any ordinance or resolution promising or guaranteeing the payment of money for the unified government, or authorizing the issuance of any bonds of the unified government, or any evidence of the unified government's indebtedness, or any contract or obligation assumed by the unified government;
(3)
Any ordinance or resolution fixing salaries of officers or employees of the unified government;
(4)
Any appropriation ordinance or resolution;
(5)
Any right or franchise granted by the unified government to any person;
(6)
Any ordinance or resolution dedicating, naming, establishing, locating, relocating, opening, paving, closing, abandoning, widening, vacating, etc., any street or public way in the unified government;
(7)
Any ordinance or resolution establishing and prescribing the street grades of any streets in the unified government;
(8)
Any ordinance or resolution providing for local improvements or assessing taxes therefor;
(9)
Any ordinance or resolution dedicating or accepting any plat or subdivision in the unified government or providing regulations therefor;
(10)
Any ordinance annexing property to the unified government;
(11)
Any ordinance or resolution prescribing traffic regulations for specific locations, parking limitations, parking prohibitions, one-way traffic, or limitations on loads of vehicles or loading zones, not inconsistent with this Code;
(12)
Any temporary or special ordinance;
and all such ordinances are hereby recognized as continuing in full force and effect to the same extent as if set out at length herein.
