CHAPTER 9-22. - ENFORCEMENT
Sec. 9-22-1. Zoning permits.
Sec. 9-22-2. Maintenance of minimum requirements.
Sec. 9-22-3. Revocation—Permit expiration.
Sec. 9-22-4. Duties of officer.
Sec. 9-22-5. Interpretation.
Sec. 9-22-6. Violations—Nuisance.
Sec. 9-22-7. Conditions of approval.
Sec. 9-22-8. Penalties.
Sec. 9-22-9. Complaints.

Sec. 9-22-1. - Zoning permits.
Zoning permits or approval shall be required for all buildings and structures hereinafter erected, constructed, altered, repaired, or moved within or into any district established by this title, and for the use of vacant land or for a change in the character of the use of land or buildings, within any district established by this title. Such permit may be a part of the building permit.
Site plans for new single-family dwelling construction and for additions to single-family dwellings that total 50% or greater of the square footage of the existing structure shall be prepared and sealed by a licensed surveyor, architect, landscape architect, or engineer. For all structures with two stories or more and for all structures that are to exceed 20 feet in height, site plans and permit applications shall indicate existing grade elevations at each corner of the building envelope, as well as proposed eave and ridgeline elevations.
(Ord. of 12-5-2000, § 1; Ord. of 4-7-2009, § 5)
Sec. 9-22-2. - Maintenance of minimum requirements.
No lot area, yard, or other open space, or required off-street parking or loading area existing on or after the effective date of the ordinance codified herein shall be reduced in area, dimension, or size below the minimum required herein, nor shall any lot area, yard, or other open space or off-street parking or loading area which is required by this title for one use be used as the lot area yard, or other open space of off-street parking or loading area requirement for any other use.
(Ord. of 12-5-2000, § 1)
Sec. 9-22-3. - Revocation—Permit expiration.
Any zoning permit granted in accordance with the terms of this title shall be deemed revoked if not used within one year from date of approval. Said permit shall not be deemed used until the permittee has actually obtained a building permit, and commenced construction thereunder, or has actually commenced the permitted use of the premises. The planning director may grant an extension to this time period subject to the staff permit procedure set forth in section 9-4-7 of this title.
(Ord. of 12-5-2000, § 1; Ord. of 7-6-2010, § 1)
Sec. 9-22-4. - Duties of officer.
All departments, officials, and employees of Athens-Clarke County vested with the duty or authority to issue permits shall conform to the provisions of this title and shall issue no permit, certificate, or license for uses, buildings or purposes in conflict with the provisions of this title; and any permits issued contrary to the provision of this title, intentionally or otherwise, are null and void. It shall be the duty of the building official or planning director to enforce the provisions of this title pertaining to the erection, construction, reconstruction, moving, conversion, alteration, or addition to any building or structure and the use of any land, building, or premises.
(Ord. of 12-5-2000, § 1)
Sec. 9-22-5. - Interpretation.
Where the conditions imposed by a provision of this title are less restrictive than comparable conditions imposed by any other provision of this title or of any other ordinance, resolution or regulation, the provisions which are more restrictive shall govern.
(Ord. of 12-5-2000, § 1)
Sec. 9-22-6. - Violations—Nuisance.
Any building or structure set up, erected, constructed, altered, enlarged, converted, moved or maintained contrary to the provisions of this title, and any use of land, building, or premise established, conducted, operated, or maintained contrary to the provisions of this title, shall be and the same is hereby declared to be unlawful and a public nuisance, and the Athens-Clarke County Attorney may, or upon order of the Athens-Clarke County Mayor and Commission, shall immediately commence action or proceedings for the abatement and removal and enjoinment thereof in the manner provided by law, and may take such other steps and apply to such courts as may have jurisdiction to grant such relief as will abate and remove such buildings or prevent any person from setting up, erecting, building, maintaining, or using any such building or structure or using property contrary to the provisions of this Title. The remedies provided for herein shall be cumulative and not exclusive.
(Ord. of 12-5-2000, § 1)
Sec. 9-22-7. - Conditions of approval.
The planning director, the planning commission, the hearings board, or the Athens-Clarke County Mayor and Commission, when acting as the hearing authority, may impose conditions of approval on any action taken pursuant to the authority that is granted in this title to modify that action to comply with the criteria of approval or to comply with other applicable Athens-Clarke County ordinances. Such conditions shall be binding on the approved action, and a violation of a condition imposed by the hearing authority shall be a violation of this title, and subject to all the penalties thereof.
(Ord. of 12-5-2000, § 1)
Sec. 9-22-8. - Penalties.
Any person, firm or corporation, whether as principal, agent employee, or otherwise, violating or causing the violation of any of the provisions of this title has committed an infraction, and upon conviction thereof is punishable as prescribed in section 1-1-5 of the Athens-Clarke County Code. Such person, firm, or corporation is guilty of a separate violation for each and every day during any portion of which any violation of this title is committed or continued by such person, firm or corporation.
(Ord. of 12-5-2000, § 1)
Sec. 9-22-9. - Complaints.
Complaints concerning violations of this title can be initiated by: (1) written complaint filed by an affected citizen; (2) any Athens-Clarke County departmental official responsible for the enforcement of this code; or (3) the Athens-Clarke County Mayor or Athens-Clarke County Attorney.
(Ord. of 12-5-2000, § 1)
