CHAPTER 1-8. - FINANCE GENERALLY

Sec. 1-8-1. - Execution.
In addition to other penalties, when any tax or license fee imposed in this Code is not paid as required by this Code, the same may be collected by execution by the director of finance as in the case of taxes due to Athens-Clarke County.
(Ord. of 1-12-93, § 1)
Sec. 1-8-2. - Collection of taxes.
All tax fi. fas. issued by authority of the mayor and commission, including those for business taxes, professional taxes, assessment taxes and all other taxes, shall be directed to the Athens-Clarke County Marshal and the Athens-Clarke County Marshal shall have authority to levy and collect such fi. fas. and transfer the same and shall have the power to make all deeds when sales are made under fi. fas.
(Ord. of 1-12-93, § 1)
Sec. 1-8-3. - Execution sales.
The director of finance shall issue an execution for all fines, costs, unpaid taxes, assessments or other revenues due to Athens-Clarke County which shall be directed to the Athens-Clarke County Marshal. The Athens-Clarke County Marshal shall levy all executions, advertise sales and sell the property levied on as provided by the Charter of the Unified Government and this Code.
(Ord. of 1-12-93, § 1)
Sec. 1-8-4. - Surety bonds.
(a)
In case of all contracts entered into by Athens-Clarke County in which any contract bond, performance bond or other form of surety bond, except bid bonds, or in which workers' compensation insurance, contractor's public liability and property damage insurance, builder's risk insurance, fire insurance, tornado insurance, or any other forms of insurance, are executed or required in connection with such contracts (including bonds or insurance of subcontractors), the bonds or the policies providing for such insurance shall be executed by the surety company or the insurer by a duly authorized agent or agency of the company; and no such bond or insurance policy otherwise executed shall be accepted by Athens-Clarke County.
(b)
No person shall accept or execute any bond or policy of insurance contrary to the provisions of this section.
(Ord. of 1-12-93, § 1)
Sec. 1-8-5. - Settlement of claims—Authority.
Only the mayor shall have the authority to settle, offer to settle or make any commitment whatever regarding settlement of any claim for damages, arising from injuries to person or property filed against Athens-Clarke County.
(Ord. of 1-12-93, § 1; Ord. of 7-2-96, § 1; Ord. of 7-6-99, § 1)
Sec. 1-8-6. - Same—Report of accidents.
All employees of Athens-Clarke County engaged in any work of Athens-Clarke County from which accidents occur causing either personal injury or property damage shall immediately obtain the names and addresses of persons witnessing the same or the names of those who have any knowledge relating thereto and shall, at once, give a copy of the name of witnesses to the heads of their respective departments.
(Ord. of 1-12-93, § 1)
Sec. 1-8-7. - Fiscal year.
The fiscal year of the Unified Government of Athens-Clarke County shall commence on July first and end on June thirtieth of each year.
(Ord. of 1-12-93, § 1)
