CHAPTER 3-15. - PANHANDLING
Sec. 3-15-1. Begging and soliciting by accosting or forcing oneself upon the company of another; prohibited conduct.

Sec. 3-15-1. - Begging and soliciting by accosting or forcing oneself upon the company of another; prohibited conduct.
(a)
Begging or soliciting deemed not unlawful. Except when performed in the manner set forth in subparagraphs (b)(1) and (b)(2) of this section, it shall not be unlawful to ask, beg or solicit.
(b)
Restrictions. It shall be unlawful for any person to ask, beg or solicit, which includes money or other things of value, or exhibit oneself for the purpose of begging or soliciting by:
(1)
Accosting another; or
(2)
Forcing oneself upon the company of another.
(c)
"Ask, beg or solicit" defined. For the purposes of this section, "ask, beg or solicit" shall include, without limitation, the spoken, written or printed word or such other acts as are conducted in furtherance of the purpose of obtaining money or other things of value.
(d)
"Accosting" defined. "Accosting," for the purposes of this section, shall be defined as approaching or speaking to someone in such a manner as would cause a reasonable person to fear imminent bodily harm or the commission of a criminal act upon his or her person, or upon property in his or her immediate possession.
(e)
"Forcing oneself upon the company of another" defined. "Forcing oneself upon the company of another" shall be defined as continuing to request, beg or solicit in close proximity to the individual addressed after the person to whom the request is directed made a negative response, blocking the passage of the individual addressed, or otherwise engaging in conduct which could reasonably be construed as intended to compel or force a person to accede to demands.
(f)
Certain behavior prohibited. It shall be unlawful for any person to act in a boisterous, turbulent or agitated manner, or who shall use profane, vulgar, loud or unbecoming language while under the influence of alcohol or other drugs while on the streets, sidewalks, or other public places within Athens-Clarke County."
(Ord. 4-7-92 § 17)
