CHAPTER 3-11. - LOST OR STOLEN PROPERTY[10]
Sec. 3-11-1. Return to rightful owner; temporary retention as evidence.
Sec. 3-11-2. Advertisement and sale.
Sec. 3-11-3. Passage of title to property sold.

Footnotes:
--- (10) ---
Charter reference— Police power of Athens-Clarke County, § 8-114(15).

Sec. 3-11-1. - Return to rightful owner; temporary retention as evidence.
(a)
The Athens-Clarke County Police Department shall seek the identity of the owner of any lost property coming into the possession of the police department or any stolen property recovered by the police department and shall notify the owner thereof, if such ownership can be determined, that the property is being held for return to the owner upon satisfactory proof of ownership.
(b)
The Athens-Clarke County Police Department shall maintain records of all such property describing every article coming into its possession, stating all identifying numbers or symbols, the date it was first acquired, the circumstances of its acquisition, and a description of the efforts to ascertain the identity of the owner.
(c)
Any person claiming ownership of any abandoned or lost property shall furnish satisfactory proof of ownership and adequately identify themselves, whereupon the property shall be delivered to such person. The person to whom property is delivered shall sign a receipt declaring ownership of the property which shall be retained by the police department. If there is no other documentary proof of ownership available, such a declaration shall be deemed satisfactory proof of ownership of the property. The delivery of the property shall be without prejudice to the rights of any other person who may claim an interest in such property.
(d)
If further possession of such lost or stolen property shall be necessary for use as evidence in the trial of any case, the property shall be retained in the custody of the police department. In his discretion, the chief of police may accept a forthcoming bond from the owner of the property to produce the property at trial or other proceeding where the property is needed as evidence. Property retained by the police department for use in the trial of a case shall be made available for restoration to the rightful owner, if known, as soon as practical after trial.
(e)
The Athens-Clarke County Police Department shall maintain a publicly accessible summarized announcement of this process, as well as the process outlined in section 3-11-2, on the Public Announcements page of their website and circulate this information via social media on a quarterly basis.
(Ord. of 4-7-92, § 5; Ord. of 5-5-2020(1), §§ 1, 2 )
Sec. 3-11-2. - Advertisement and sale.
(a)
Lost or stolen property being held by the police department which is not claimed by the rightful owner thereof within 90 days from the date it came into possession of the police department shall be turned over by the police department to the central services department for sale. Any property not sold at such a sale may be held for use or future sale by Athens-Clarke County and if it appears that such property is unusable by Athens-Clarke County and that the expense of holding and retaining such property would exceed any proceeds derived from its sale, then Athens-Clarke County may destroy such property. Appropriate records shall be maintained concerning such destruction.
(b)
When any such property is to be sold, the central services department shall then publish a notice of sale once a week for four consecutive weeks in the newspaper in which sheriff's sales are advertised. The notice of sale shall give a full and complete description of the property to be sold; the time, date, place and terms of the sale; and shall state that the property to be sold was lost or stolen and recovered by the police department more than 90 days prior to the date of publication of the notice. A copy of the notice of sale shall be posted in the courthouse at least 30 days prior to the sale. The notice of such sale with a link to the property descriptions, time, date, place, and terms of sale shall be posted on the ACC Civic Alerts web page 30 days prior to the sale with social media alerts circulated via the Public Information Office once a week until the date of the sale.
(c)
All sale shall be reported by the central services department to the mayor and commission at the next regular meeting following such sale.
(d)
The proceeds of such sale shall be paid into the general fund of Athens-Clarke County.
(Ord. of 4-7-92, § 5; Ord. of 7-2-96, § 1; Ord. of 7-6-99, § 1; Ord. of 5-5-2020(1), §§ 3—5 )
Sec. 3-11-3. - Passage of title to property sold.
Athens-Clarke County shall not make any warranty of title to any property so sold.
(Ord. of 4-7-92, § 5)
