CHAPTER 1-25. - ATHENS CULTURAL AFFAIRS COMMISSION
Sec. 1-25-1. Purpose and Establishment.
Sec. 1-25-2. Membership and Terms of Service.
Sec. 1-25-3. Powers of the Commission.
Sec. 1-25-4. Duties of the Commission.
Sec. 1-25-5. Funding for Public Art Program.
Sec. 1-25-6. Additional Funding for Public Art.

Sec. 1-25-1. - Purpose and Establishment.
In support and furtherance of its determination that superior and diverse cultural assets and attractions in a city and its built environment are vital to the quality of life of its citizens and vital to the economic success of its businesses; and in recognition of the need for a comprehensive cultural affairs and public art policy that improves and enhances the cultural assets and public spaces within Athens-Clarke County, the Mayor and Commission hereby establish the Athens Cultural Affairs Commission (ACAC) to advise on cultural affairs and aesthetic development of the built environment in accordance with the provisions of this chapter.
(Ord. of 12-7-2010, § 1)
Sec. 1-25-2. - Membership and Terms of Service.
The Athens Cultural Affairs Commission shall consist of 11 voting members appointed for staggered three-year terms of office.
(1)
Eleven Athens-Clarke County resident members shall be appointed by the Mayor and Commission of Athens-Clarke County, Georgia. Whenever a vacancy exists thereafter, nominations may be submitted by the ACAC to the Mayor and Commission, who shall confirm or reject such nominations.
(2)
Individuals with expertise in the following areas will be sought as members of the Athens Cultural Affairs Commission: public art, visual art, architecture, environmental design, music, performance, literary art, or others who have demonstrated a professional interest in, or outstanding knowledge of, the arts.
(3)
The ACAC may appoint up to four non-voting representatives to serve as members for a period of up to three years.
(Ord. of 12-7-2010, § 1; Ord. of 12-3-2013, § 1)
Sec. 1-25-3. - Powers of the Commission.
The Athens Cultural Affairs Commission shall be authorized to adopt guidelines, policies and other criteria to facilitate the purposes of the ACAC; to appoint committees to assist with implementation of the policies; to initiate, plan and direct community-wide efforts to achieve ACAC goals; to solicit and recommend acceptance of grants, donations and appropriations of funds, staff, services, products, property and facilities for use by the ACAC for the accomplishment of its objectives; and to make recommendations to the Mayor and Commission and the community regarding public art policy and other cultural affairs policy.
(Ord. of 12-7-2010, § 1)
Sec. 1-25-4. - Duties of the Commission.
The Athens Cultural Affairs Commission shall be vested with the responsibility of advising the Mayor and Commission with respect to all aspects of planning, programming, procurement, installation, operation, inventory and maintenance of public art projects and artworks, including art donations, commissions, and temporary projects.
The ACAC shall create a Public Art Master Plan to be approved by the Mayor and Commission and shall be responsible for developing annual budgets in support of public art projects described in the Plan, based on the Unified Government's approved Public Art Capital Account and other funding sources.
The ACAC shall also perform such other duties and responsibilities as may be designated by the Mayor and Commission to promote the public art program and other cultural affairs initiatives, including adopting guidelines to facilitate the mission of the ACAC in its support of a public art program. Appropriate Unified Government departments under the direction of the Manager are hereby authorized to offer assistance to the Athens Cultural Affairs Commission for the accomplishment of its objectives. However, nothing in this Chapter should be construed to abridge or change the powers and duties of departments, boards and agencies of the Unified Government of Athens-Clarke County.
(a)
Meetings. To accomplish the duties set forth, the Athens Cultural Affairs Commission shall meet as necessary, but at least monthly, to accomplish its duties and responsibilities.
(b)
Annual Reports. The Athens Cultural Affairs Commission shall deliver an annual report to the Mayor and Commission describing its accomplishments of the preceding year and recommending approval for new projects. It shall provide such other reports as may be requested by the Mayor and Commission.
(c)
Public Outreach and Education. The Athens Cultural Affairs Commission shall endeavor to increase the visibility and awareness of public art through outreach, education and collaborations.
(Ord. of 12-7-2010, § 1)
Sec. 1-25-5. - Funding for Public Art Program.
Upon adoption of the annual General Capital Budget, the Mayor and Commission of the Unified Government shall appropriate one percent of the value of all approved projects in the Capital Budget, excluding land purchases, leases, finance cost, and projects categorized as "Equipment," to the Public Art Project Account. This account shall be a multi-year account used for the design, fabrication, installation, maintenance and implementation of community public art projects recommended by the ACAC and approved by the Mayor and Commission.
In addition to the above noted capital funding for public art, the ACAC may submit to the Unified Government an annual operating budget request to further support its ongoing efforts to promote a public art program and other cultural community initiatives.
(Ord. of 12-7-2010, § 1)
Sec. 1-25-6. - Additional Funding for Public Art.
The Mayor and Commission shall identify projects within all Special Purpose Local Option Sales Tax (SPLOST) programs that are appropriate for inclusion of public art elements as integral parts of the project construction, beginning with the SPLOST 2011 program. The Mayor and Commission shall, upon review of ACAC recommendations, make such determination prior to project development by taking one of the following actions:
(1)
Declare that the project is appropriate for public art and direct the Manager to work with the ACAC to include an art budget in the project planning that is equal to one percent of the project's actual construction contract amount. Final approval of the art type and style shall be made by the Mayor and Commission at a later date based upon a recommendation by the ACAC; or
(2)
Declare that the project is appropriate for public art and direct the Manager to work with the ACAC during project planning to develop an art budget that may be greater than or less than one percent of the project's actual construction contract amount. The art budget shall be approved by the Mayor and Commission at the schematic or preliminary planning stage of the project. Final approval of the art type and style shall be made by the Mayor and Commission at a later date based upon a recommendation by the ACAC; or
(3)
Declare that the project is not appropriate for public art at this time.
The public art appropriation shall be maintained as a separate item in the project budget. The ACAC shall assist the Unified Government in the selection, development and implementation of these art projects as provided in section 1-25-4.
(Ord. of 12-7-2010, § 1; Ord. of 12-6-2011, § 1)
