CHAPTER 9-14. - PLANNED DEVELOPMENT (PD) DISTRICT
Sec. 9-14-1. Intent
Sec. 9-14-2. General provisions
Sec. 9-14-3. "PD" approval procedures.
Sec. 9-14-4. Reserved.
Sec. 9-14-5. Elderly Residential Multifamily (ERM) Planned Developments.

Sec. 9-14-1. - Intent
It is the intent of this district to encourage development of compatible land uses on a scale larger than that of individual small parcels. This district is designed to be an overlay appended to a residential, commercial, or industrial district to provide greater latitude with regard to the internal site planning considerations of a planned development. Individual uses and structures in a planned development need not comply with the specific building location, height, type, building size, lot size, and other space limits of the underlying basic district provided that the spirit and intent of such requirements are complied with in the total development plan approved for such project.
(Ord. of 12-5-2000, § 1)
Sec. 9-14-2. - General provisions
Any area may be rezoned as a planned development district if any one of the following conditions are met:
A.
More than one principal land use is proposed for development on a single or multiple ownership.
B.
Separate land uses, which would not otherwise be permitted to locate within the same zoning district, are proposed for development on one or more adjacent parcels under single or separate ownership.
C.
Exceptions or variations to the size, dimensional changes in standards required, or other requirements of the zoning ordinance or community tree management ordinance are being sought to provide design flexibility.
(Ord. of 12-5-2000, § 1; Ord. of 5-1-2012, § 3)
Sec. 9-14-3. - "PD" approval procedures.
A.
The application for the planned development shall be executed by all property owners, including holders of deeds to secure debt, as recorded in the official records of the superior court of Athens-Clarke County, or their authorized agents.
B.
Any request pertaining to the establishment of a "PD" zoning district shall be considered an amendment to the zoning ordinance and shall be administered and processed as a Type I or Type II procedure as defined in chapter 9-4 of the zoning ordinance, depending upon the agreement of the proposed zoning classification with the future development map.
C.
Preliminary development plan and application.
1.
A petition for "PD" zoning must be accompanied by a preliminary site plan and preliminary written report of the project and will only be accepted after a pre-application conference. It is intended that this step in the process will provide an opportunity for the planning commission to comment on the project prior to the preparation of the master development plan. Any comments by the planning commission are for the benefit of the applicant in drafting the master development plan and shall not be binding. The application shall include a report addressing the approval criteria of Chapter 9-4 and a development plan prepared and sealed by a licensed surveyor, architect, landscape architect, or engineer, and including the following information:
1.
Vicinity map.
2.
North arrow.
3.
Depiction and names of all streets within and abutting the subject property, including right-of-way and pavement widths.
4.
Depiction of the subject property, including the dimensions of all lot lines.
5.
Location and use of all buildings existing and proposed on the subject property.
6.
Location of all parking areas, parking spaces, and ingress, egress and traffic circulation for the subject property.
7.
Schematic landscaping plan showing area and type of landscaping proposed.
8.
For any proposed structural or site improvement, a topographic map of the site showing contour intervals of five feet or less.
9.
Approximate location of all existing natural features in areas which are planned to be disturbed, including, but not limited to, all existing vegetation, any natural drainage ways, ponds or wetlands, any substantial outcroppings of rocks or boulders, and protected environmental buffer zones.
10.
Project name and designation of the plan as either a "preliminary" or "master" plan, as applicable.
11.
Scale (plan must be drawn to a standardized engineering scale).
12.
Date of plan origination and latest revision.
13.
Tax parcel identification numbers and zoning designations of the subject property and adjacent properties.
14.
Existing and proposed public water, sanitary sewer, and access easements, and stormwater management facilities.
15.
Total acreage, the area and percentage of lot coverage, the total number of parking spaces, sufficient information for required parking determination for each non-residential use, and the total number of dwelling units (including the number of bedrooms in each dwelling unit for multifamily development).
In addition to the site plan, a planned development application shall include the following:
16.
Tree management plan in accordance with section 8-7-17, if required by said section.
17.
Traffic Impact Analysis for projects that may be expected to generate 100 vehicle trips within a single hour or 1,000 vehicle trips per day, per the specifications of the Athens-Clarke County traffic engineer.
18.
Water and sanitary sewer demands per specifications of the Athens-Clarke County Public Utilities Department.
19.
Schematic architectural elevations of proposed structures and/or photographs of existing structures, as applicable, with the existing or proposed maximum height denoted.
20.
Written description of proposed stormwater management.
21.
If the project is to be built in phases, a description of the areas contained in each phase.
D.
Master development plan.
1.
Within 30 days following the planning commission's review of the preliminary development plan, the owner shall submit a master development plan for consideration as a Type II planning action. The planning commission shall accept a request from the applicant for a maximum additional 90 days to submit the master plan if a written request is received by the Planning Department prior to expiration of the initial 30-day period. If the request for additional time to submit the master plan is not received prior to expiration of the initial 30-day period, or, if such a request is duly received but the master plan is not submitted within the additional 90-day period, then the application shall be deemed as withdrawn and a subsequent new application shall be made before further consideration shall be undertaken.
2.
If the master plan is approved by the governing body, the planned development regulations shall become the zoning for the property. A master plan shall contain all information required for a preliminary development plan.
E.
After review and recommendation by the planning commission, the petitioner must submit the plan to the planning department by noon Monday of the week preceding the week during which the mayor and commission will meet (the Thursday after the third Tuesday of the month). The composition and number of plan copies to be submitted for consideration of the application by the mayor and commission shall be determined by the planning department.
Additionally, after review and recommendation by the planning commission, any adjustment or amendment submitted to binding site plans by the petitioner, beyond those recommended by the planning commission, shall be considered a new application and cause the original rezoning request to be returned to the planning commission for reconsideration. The planning commission, if necessary, may take up to 60 days to review the new application. All fees normally associated with a rezoning request shall also be applicable.
F.
If the planning commission recommends changes to the binding site plan, and petitioner decides to include such changes to his or her request, then said petitioner must make appropriate changes to the binding site plan, submit said plan in accordance with the provisions of paragraph E above, and will include on the plan a statement signed by the preparer outlining the changes and stating that no other changes have been made except those requested.
G.
Phase site plan.
1.
Following the approval of the master development plan, the owner shall submit a detailed site plan of each project phase to the planning director for approval prior to the issuance of any permits. The planning director may refer, at his/her discretion, and shall refer, upon the request of the owner, approval of the site plan to the full planning commission. If the project will not be phased over time, the owner may submit the detailed site plan for consideration by the planning director with the master development plan, subject to the governing body ultimately approving the master development plan. If the project is to be phased, the owner may submit the site plan for the first phase for similar consideration by the planning director with the master development plan.
2.
The detailed site plan shall be drawn to scale, fully dimensioned, and shall include the same information as required for a final plat of the subdivision regulations (chapter 9-26) and/or a site review (chapter 9-25), as applicable.
3.
The planning director shall approve, and may only approve, the phase site plan if it conforms to the master development plan. Any deviation from the master plan shall be grounds for denial of the site plan and shall necessitate the petitioning for approval of an amendment of the master development plan and "PD" zoning before the site plan can be approved. Approval will be through a staff permit procedure.
4.
The approval of the site plan and related information for each phase shall allow the owner to proceed with the installation of improvements and submit (when appropriate) a final subdivision plat for approval, all in accordance with the procedures set forth in chapter 9-26.
H.
Compliance. In any event where it is determined by the Athens-Clarke Mayor and Commission, after referral and/or receipt of a recommendation from the planning commission, that the development of an approved planned development project is not in accordance with this section, the mayor and commission, after holding a public hearing, may amend the zoning ordinance to place parts or all of the property in the planned development district in its prior zoning classification or any other appropriate classification.
I.
Application of regulations:
1.
If any exceptions or variations to the requirements of the zoning ordinance or tree management ordinance are being sought in connection with the planned development, then the application must contain the applicant's requests for such exceptions or variations for hearing, consideration, and decision by the mayor and commission in conjunction with the planned development.
2.
Planned developments shall normally be located on a street having a minimum functional classification of "collector."
3.
Uses permitted in a "PD" district shall include all uses permitted in the underlying district. In the case of an underlying residential district, retail and service uses designed and located within the project primarily for the benefit and convenience of the residents of the project shall be permitted; but shall be limited to no more than ten percent of the total project acreage. Permitted retail and service uses serving a residential "PD" shall include any use permitted in the "C-N" District. Total commercial space shall be limited to 50 square feet per residential unit.
4.
Total project residential density shall be compatible with that normally permitted in the underlying district, including any density transfers or density bonuses.
5.
Adequate guarantee shall be provided for the permanent retention as "open space" for all of the residual open land area resulting from the planned development approval. The guarantee shall be in the form of private reservation for the use of project residents through covenants, deed restrictions, or similar documents, or through dedication as common open space, or as land held in a common undivided interest dedicated to a recognized land trust, or dedicated to Athens-Clarke County. The care and maintenance of such private open space areas shall be similarly provided for.
6.
To ensure adequate and proper construction of the following facilities listed below in "a" through "e," the mayor and commission may require that a performance bond or other financial guarantee be submitted by the owner. Such guarantee, if required, shall be in an amount set by the mayor and commission and sufficient to allow Athens-Clarke County to construct the stipulated facilities. In addition, the owner shall be required to grant right-of-entry to Athens-Clarke County to construct such improvements where a bond is required. The bonding requirements shall be the same as required of a subdivision (9-26-5).
a.
Recreation lands and appurtenances;
b.
Streets and sidewalks;
c.
Drainage facilities;
d.
Grading improvements;
e.
Sewer, water, and other utilities.
J.
The violation of any provision of the approved master development plan shall constitute a violation of this title.
K.
The planning director shall have the authority to grant waivers and variances to those restrictions and conditions of planned developments that the applicant has established instead of or in addition to the underlying district regulations using the staff permit procedure. The planning director shall not change any condition or restriction that has been imposed by the planning commission or the mayor and commission nor grant any changes to the lot regulations that would be less restrictive than those set by the underlying district regulations. Variance and waiver requests shall be in writing to the planning director. The planning director may request any additional information or documents deemed necessary to make a determination on the requested action.
L.
The approved master development plan constitutes a binding site plan unless specifically stated in the master development plan or report to the contrary.
(Ord. of 12-5-2000, § 1; Ord. of 6-5-2001, §§ 12, 13; Ord. of 2-7-2006, § 3; Ord. of 6-3-2008, § 1; Ord. of 7-1-2008, § 11; Ord. of 2-3-2015, §§ 1—4 )
Sec. 9-14-4. - Reserved.
Editor's note— Ord. of 2-2-2009, § 1, deleted § 9-14-4, which pertained to "Sunset clause" provision and derived from Ord. of 12-5-2000, § 1; Ord. of 11-6-2002, § 2; Ord. of 12-6-2006, § 1; Ord. of 8-7-2007, § 1; Ord. of 7-1-2008, § 12.
Sec. 9-14-5. - Elderly Residential Multifamily (ERM) Planned Developments.
The following provisions contained in any formerly existing ERM Elderly Multifamily Residential District are hereby incorporated into the currently existing underlying planned developments:
A.
Occupancy. The occupancy of the residences defined herein shall be confined to those persons described as "elderly" as defined in the Federal Fair Housing Act of 1988, Subpart E, Housing for Older Persons.
B.
Special development standards.
1.
In all districts, the density for the development of multifamily housing for the elderly shall not exceed 50 dwelling units per acre, for studio, one-bedroom, and two-bedroom units.
2.
A density bonus may be allowed for those facilities providing additional communal open space with recreational facilities. The bonus of one square foot of additional dwelling unit floor area may be added for each one square foot of communal open space with recreational facilities provided. Such open space may be provided in roof or balcony terraces, gardens, or internal courtyards as well in outer yards. No single open space of less than 300 square feet may qualify for the density bonus. The maximum density bonus that may be earned is 100 percent for a density cap of 100 dwelling units per acre.
3.
The maximum percentage of ground coverage shall be specified in the schedule for district regulations except in those districts where no ground coverage maximum is specified. In those districts, the percentage of ground coverage shall not exceed 50 percent.
4.
Facilities providing housing for the elderly shall provide five-tenths parking space per dwelling unit, plus one space for each employee on the largest shift. One loading space shall be provided for each elderly housing facility.
5.
For those districts in which the maximum allowable building height is less than 75 feet, a request for additional height, up to a maximum of 75 feet, may be made to the planning commission. Such additional height may be approved, only if one foot of additional yard space is provided in each yard for each additional one foot of height over the maximum allowable in the district.
(Ord. of 12-5-2000, § 1)
