CHAPTER 3-10. - BICYCLES[9]
Sec. 3-10-1. Traffic ordinances apply to persons riding bicycles.
Sec. 3-10-2. Parking.
Sec. 3-10-3. Riding bicycles on public sidewalks; riding roller skates, roller blades, or skateboards on public sidewalks or on public streets.
Sec. 3-10-4. Definitions.

Footnotes:
--- (9) ---
Charter reference— Power of Athens-Clarke County to regulate roadways, § 8-114(11).
Cross reference— Parking, motor vehicles and traffic generally, Ch. 3-3.
State Law reference— Bicycles and play vehicles, O.C.G.A. § 40-2-290 et seq.; riding on roadways and bicycle paths, O.C.G.A. § 4-6-294.

Sec. 3-10-1. - Traffic ordinances apply to persons riding bicycles.
Every person riding a bicycle or electric assisted bicycle upon a roadway shall be granted all of the rights and shall be subject to all of the duties applicable to the driver of a vehicle by this chapter except as to special regulations in this Code and except as to those provisions of this chapter which by their very nature can have no application.
(Ord. of 4-7-92, § 4; Ord. of 10-1-2019(1), § 2 )
Sec. 3-10-2. - Parking.
No person shall park a bicycle or electric assisted bicycle upon a street or highway other than upon the roadway against the curb or upon the sidewalk in a rack to support the bicycle or electric assisted bicycle or against a building or at the curb, in such manner as to afford the least obstruction to pedestrians.
(Ord. of 4-7-92, § 4; Ord. of 10-1-2019(1), § 3 )
Sec. 3-10-3. - Riding bicycles on public sidewalks; riding roller skates, roller blades, or skateboards on public sidewalks or on public streets.
(a)
It shall be unlawful for any person over 12 years of age to ride a bicycle on any public sidewalk in Athens-Clarke County. It shall be unlawful for a person of any age to rollerskate, rollerblade, ride a skateboard, or ride a bicycle on any public sidewalk located within the area designated as the downtown tax district.
(b)
It shall be unlawful for a person of any age to rollerskate, rollerblade, ride a skateboard, or ride a bicycle on any portion of a public sidewalk in any zoning district where the door of an adjacent building opens directly onto the sidewalk. The beginning and end of each such portion of sidewalk shall have a sign stating that riding a bicycle on the sidewalk is prohibited between the signs.
(c)
It shall be unlawful for any person to rollerskate, rollerblade or ride a skateboard on any public street within the area designated as the downtown tax district.
(d)
Any person who is riding a bicycle upon a sidewalk shall yield the right of way to any pedestrian.
(Ord. of 4-7-92, § 4; Ord. of 2-5-2002, § 1; Ord. of 1-5-2010, § 1)
Sec. 3-10-4. - Definitions.
For purposes of this chapter, the following terms, phrases, words, and their derivatives shall have the meanings set forth in this section.
(1)
Bicycle means every device propelled by human power upon which any person may ride, having only two wheels which are in tandem and either of which is more than 13 inches in diameter.
(2)
Electric assisted bicycle means a device with two or three wheels which has a saddle and fully operative pedals for human propulsion and also has an electric motor having a power output of not more than 750 watts. Different classes of electric assisted bicycles shall have the same definitions as set forth below:
(a)
Class I electric assisted bicycle means an electric assisted bicycle equipped with a motor that provides assistance only when the rider is pedaling and that ceases to provide assistance when the device reaches a speed of 20 miles per hour.
(b)
Class II electric assisted bicycle means an electric assisted bicycle equipped with a motor that may be used exclusively to propel the vehicle but is not capable of reaching a speed of 20 miles per hour.
(c)
Class III electric assisted bicycle means an electric assisted bicycle equipped with a motor that provides assistance only when the rider is pedaling and that ceases to provide assistance when the device reaches a speed of 28 miles per hour.
( Ord. of 10-1-2019(1), § 4 )
