ARTICLE III. - ELECTRICITY[3]
Footnotes:
--- (3) ---
Charter reference— Adoption of technical codes, § 13.
Cross reference— Utilities, ch. 90.

DIVISION 1. - GENERALLY

Sec. 18-81. - Definitions.
The following words, terms and phrases, when used in this article, shall have the meanings ascribed to them in this section, except where the context clearly indicates a different meaning:
Electrical contracting and electrical contractor means any person, firm or corporation engaging in the business of electrical installations, construction and repair.
Master electrician means any person who shall have a current business license from the city to engage in electrical contracting. A master electrician is defined, too, as a person who assumes the responsible charge either for himself, or for directing of other persons in the installation of wiring for light, heat and power, and who is skilled in the art of electrical superintending, and has sufficient practical knowledge of electricity to efficiently and properly assume the responsible charge and direction of other persons in the installation of wiring for light, heat and power. A master electrician may be further identified as a person who holds a current electrical contractor's certification from the state.
Superintendent means the superintendent of electrical affairs.
(Code 1986, § 5-81)
Cross reference— Definitions generally, § 1-2.
Sec. 18-82. - Violations.
No person shall fail, neglect or refuse to comply with any order of the superintendent of electrical affairs given pursuant to and by authority of this article, nor shall willfully aid or assist in the violation of any of the provisions of this article.
(Code 1986, § 5-82)
Sec. 18-83. - Electrical maintenance excluded.
This article shall not cover minor electrical repairs involving no new work, alteration or change whatever, that may be necessary or incidental to the maintenance only in good condition of an established plant, installation, system or wiring or common household appliances. But this qualification does not extend to installation of new circuits or the extension of any circuits already installed, or the installation of any apparatus, devices or materials whatever for which a permit is required under this article.
(Code 1986, § 5-83)
Sec. 18-84. - Electrical department established.
There is hereby established in the city a department to be called the electrical department, which shall be in the charge of a superintendent of electrical affairs. The building official shall also be the superintendent of electrical affairs.
(Code 1986, § 5-84)
Sec. 18-85. - Superintendent's general powers and duties.
It shall be the duty of the superintendent of electrical affairs to inspect or have inspected all electrical construction, installation and equipment of whatever character, whether inside or outside of buildings, and he shall have power to order removed, repaired or rebuilt any such construction, installation or equipment when in his judgment, life or property will be better protected thereby; and it shall be his duty to see that all laws of force now or that may hereafter be enacted, governing electrical energy or construction, are strictly complied with.
(Code 1986, § 5-85)
Sec. 18-86. - Records; reports.
The superintendent of electrical affairs shall keep a full and complete daily record of all work done, permits issued, examinations made and other official work performed, as required by this article, and shall make an annual report thereof to the council on or before January 1.
(Code 1986, § 5-86)
Sec. 18-87. - Electric lights.
The superintendent of electrical affairs shall have general supervision of electric lights and shall require all concerns furnishing lights to the city to comply with the terms of their contracts with the city.
(Code 1986, § 5-87)
Sec. 18-88. - Right of entry for purposes of inspection.
The superintendent of electrical affairs shall have the right at reasonable times, in the discharge of his duties, to enter any building under construction or completed or any manhole or subway, or to climb any pole, for the purpose of examining and testing the electric wires, construction or appliance therein, or thereon contained. For that purpose he shall be given prompt access to all buildings, public or private, and to all manholes, subways or poles, on application to the individual or company owning or in charge of same.
(Code 1986, § 5-88)
Secs. 18-89—18-110. - Reserved.
DIVISION 2. - LICENSE[4]

Footnotes:
--- (4) ---
Cross reference— Businesses, ch. 22.

Sec. 18-111. - Required.
Every person desiring to engage in the business of electrical contracting (construction, repair or installation) shall before doing so obtain a business license from the clerk and treasurer. No business license shall be issued until after presentation to the clerk and treasurer of a certificate from the superintendent of electrical affairs showing that the applicant is qualified under this article to engage in such business, or in the case of a firm or corporation that the superintendent of such firm or corporation making application is so qualified and all work is to be done under his direct supervision and responsibility. The fee for such license shall be as set out and established by the council.
(Code 1986, § 5-126)
Sec. 18-112. - Contractor's bond.
Before any person shall engage in the business of electrical contracting (construction, repair and installation) in the city, he shall first deposit with the city a good and sufficient bond in the sum of $10,000.00, to be approved by the clerk and treasurer, indemnifying and saving harmless the city from all claims arising from accidents and damage of any character caused by the negligence of such person while engaged in the electrical contracting business within the city. In lieu of such bond, any person may satisfy the requirements of this section by depositing with the city a certificate from an insurance company acceptable by the clerk and treasurer showing issuance of personal injury and property damage liability insurance as follows:
Personal injury, including death: Limit of $10,000.00 for each person and $20,000.00 for each accident.
Property damages: Limit of $10,000.00 for each accident.
(Code 1986, § 5-127)
Sec. 18-113. - False certification; violation by master electrician; hearing.
Any master electrician who shall have been licensed as such under the provisions of this article who violates any of the provisions of this article, or who certifies under oath to the superintendent of electrical affairs that he has supervised the installation, construction or repair of any electrical work, when in fact he has not, shall be cited by the superintendent of electrical affairs to appear before the council to show cause why his license should not be revoked. After such citation has been personally served upon the master electrician, he shall have the right to appear before the council and offer such evidence in his behalf as he deems necessary. At the same time the superintendent of electrical affairs shall offer evidence showing the violation as charged. After hearing the evidence the council shall then, by a majority vote, find him guilty or not guilty as the evidence warrants. If found guilty, the council may revoke his license or impose a suspension of his license for a period of 90 days. If found not guilty, the charges shall be dropped. If the person so cited to appear shall fail to appear at the time and place specified in the citation, his license shall be automatically suspended until such time as he does appear before the council and answers the charges.
(Code 1986, § 5-128)
Secs. 18-114—18-140. - Reserved.
DIVISION 3. - ELECTRICAL CODE

Sec. 18-141. - Adopted.
The latest edition of the National Electrical Code, as adopted and amended by the Georgia Department of Community Affairs, is hereby adopted as the official electrical code of the city.
(Code 1986, § 5-141; Ord. No. O-02-03, 1-22-2002)
Sec. 18-142. - Reserved.
Editor's note— Inasmuch as Ord. No. O-02-03 adopts the latest edition of the National Electric Code, the provisions of the former section 18-142, which pertained to a city supplement to the 1999 edition of the National Electric Code and derived from the Code of 1986, § 5-142, have been removed from this Code at the discretion of the editor.
Sec. 18-143. - Materials, devices, appliances to conform to code.
No electrical materials, devices or appliances shall be sold, used or installed in the city, unless they are in conformity with the provisions of the National Electrical Code, as adopted and supplemented in this division.
(Code 1986, § 5-143)
Secs. 18-144—18-180. - Reserved.
