ARTICLE II. - MAYOR AND ALDERMEN

Sec. 7. - Powers of mayor and aldermen.
Said mayor and aldermen shall have power to pass, from time to time, such ordinances, bylaws, rules and regulations as may in their discretion be necessary to enforce this act, and the laws of Georgia, relative to municipal corporations and provide penalties for their violation. They shall have general and exclusive jurisdiction over the streets, alleys, by-ways, sidewalks, and commons, and public squares of said city, and may provide against obstructions thereupon. They may lay such drains or gutters therein as may be necessary and take all necessary and proper means for keeping the corporate limits of said city free from garbage, trash and filth of all kinds. They shall have power to summarily abate all nuisances, whenever in their judgment, such nuisance is injurious to the health, comfort, or convenience of the inhabitants, either with or without complaint against it. They may regulate the running of locomotives by steam, electricity or other power. They may provide against obstructions in the streets, alleys and sidewalks therein and may prevent the placing thereon of any grass, stones, sticks, fruits, vegetables, or anything of like character calculated to cause inconvenience or injury to individuals or to make such streets unclean. They may make such regulations as they may deem proper, relative to the keeping, storage, or sale of gunpowder and explosives, or inflammable oils, chemicals, and powder in said city. They may prohibit the commission of nuisances in said city and provide punishment therefor. That said mayor and aldermen may, by ordinance, provide for the laying and paving of any or all of the sidewalks of said city, for the laying and paving of any or all of the street ditches of said city, for the laying of surface water drains under said pavement, and for the placing of curbing between the sidewalks and streets of said city at such time, in such sizes and shapes, and of such material, as in their judgment may be expedient, and at the same time provide for the levy and collection of assessments against the contiguous or abutting land, and against the owner thereof, for the cost of the material used in said work and construction. The city shall furnish and pay for all supervision of the construction, and the work and labor connected with the same. The said city may do any part of the above described work at such time as it sees fit, and provide at the same time for the levy and collection of assessments against said contiguous or abutting land, and against the owner thereof, for the material used in said work. Should the owner of any of the contiguous or abutting property, when said work is done, fail or refuse to pay the pro rata part of the cost of said construction the said mayor and aldermen are hereby authorized to pay for the said material for said property owners and issue executions against said contiguous or abutting land, and the owner thereof, for such pro rata part of said construction as is chargeable against the same, which execution shall be issued, levied and collected in the same manner and upon the same terms as is now provided for the collection of unpaid city tax fi. fas. under sections 56 and 57 of the charter of said city. The said property owners may interpose his [sic] illegality to the levy of said execution, as is now provided in cases of the levy and collection of unpaid tax fi. fas. under section 58 of said charter.
(1900 Ga. Laws, page 345, § 21; 1914 Ga. Laws, page 1051, § 1; 1924 Ga. Laws, page 666, § 2)
Charter cross reference—Adoption of ordinances, procedure, § 12.
State Law reference— Ordinances of a council not to bind succeeding councils, O.C.G.A. § 36-30-3.
Secs. 7A—7C. - Reserved.
Editor's note— 2003 Ga. Laws, page 3661, § 1, repealed the former sections 7A—7C in their entirety, which pertained to the powers of mayor, bids, and "city council" defined, respectively, and derived from 1976 Georgia Laws, page 2820, §§ 1—3; 1977 Georgia Laws, page 3201, § 1; 1980 Georgia Laws, page 3649, § 1; 1985 Georgia Laws, page 4031, § 2, and Ord. No. O-01-10, adopted October 9, 2001.
Sec. 8. - Removal of obstructions; vagrancy; moral offenses.
Said mayor and aldermen shall have power to summarily and forcibly remove[,] at any time, any and all obstructions of any character whatever from the streets, sidewalks, alleys and commons of said city without notice to anyone; and from their judgment and summary removal of such obstructions there shall be no appeal. They shall have power to prevent tramps, streetwalkers, vagrants and lewd females from walking upon the streets of said city, and may punish them in their discretion. Whenever it shall appear to the mayor of said city by evidence sufficient to excite the suspicions of a reasonable and prudent man that any room, building or cellar in said city is being used as a house of ill fame, as a residence of lewd women, as a place where gambling or other disorderly, immoral and illegal practices are carried on, said mayor may order the marshal of said city to enter said room, building or cellar, by force if necessary. The mayor and aldermen of said city shall not be liable in damages for the exercise of the authority conferred by this section, unless it shall appear that the mayor was actuated by malice and that there was not sufficient evidence to excite the suspicion of a reasonable and prudent man.
(1900 Ga. Laws, page 345, § 58; renumb. § 57 by 1901 Ga. Laws, page 549, § 2; renumb. § 56 by 1902 Ga. Laws, page 510, § 1)
State Law reference— Grant by municipal corporation of right to obstruct public street, O.C.G.A. § 36-30-10.
Sec. 9. - Cemeteries.
Said mayor and aldermen shall have exclusive jurisdiction over all cemeteries of said city. They may elect such employees to superintend and care for the same as they may deem proper; they may make such appropriations out of the treasury of said city as they may deem proper for the proper supervision thereof, they may enact ordinances for the purpose of preventing trespasses therein, or the grounds thereof, and provide penalties for violation of the same. They may regulate the charges of grave-digging, hearse fees, and for bricking and walling the same; they may charge such fees for burials as they may deem proper and enforce the payment of the same as they may deem best.
(1900 Ga. Laws, page 345, § 53; renumb. § 52 by 1901 Ga. Laws, page 549, § 2; renumb. § 51 by 1902 Ga. Laws, page 510, § 1)
Sec. 10. - Fire districts.
The mayor and aldermen of said city shall have power to provide by ordinance against loss of [or] damage by fire in said city and to that end they may declare any portion of said city a fire district, and may define the limits thereof. They may prescribe what material may or may not be used in the erection of buildings within said "fire district," and may punish in their discretion any person violating the provisions of their ordinances in this behalf. Whenever it shall appear that any building, shed or obstruction within said fire district is erected, or being erected, contrary to the provisions of said ordinances, they shall have power to direct the owner of said building to tear it down at once or to so change the material of its construction as to make it conform to the requirements of said ordinances. Should said owner fail to obey said direction, said mayor and aldermen may summarily have said building, shed or obstruction taken down forthwith for refusal to obey their direction and order aforesaid. Any person so refusing may be tried in the municipal court of said city.
(1900 Ga. Laws, page 345, § 60; renumb. § 59 by 1901 Ga. Laws, page 549, § 2; renumb. § 58 by 1902 Ga. Laws, page 510, § 1)
Sec. 11. - Buildings; repairs, removal of dangerous buildings.
Said mayor and aldermen may exercise general supervision over all buildings of every character, within the limits of the city whenever, in the judgment of the mayor of said city, any building in said city, by reason of want of proper repairs, or defect in construction, is dangerous to the city on account of it or for any other reason; said mayor may report the same to the aldermen at a regular or called meeting of the board. At said meeting, if a majority of those present shall be of the opinion that the building is dangerous for any of the reasons aforesaid, that they may pass a resolution so declaring. Upon the passage of such resolution, the mayor shall cause written notice of said action to be furnished the owner or tenant in possession of said building, and directing that the defect be remedied within ten (10) days. If at the expiration of said ten (10) days, said defect has not been remedied in accordance with said notice, it shall be lawful for the said mayor of said city to cause it to be done summarily, and issue execution for the cost thereof against the owner of said building. In case said owner or tenant in possession shall fail and refuse to remedy the defect as aforesaid, and said mayor and aldermen are of the opinion that the same cannot be satisfactorily remedied, it shall be lawful for them to cause said building to be torn down or destroyed in the most expeditious manner. Said mayor and aldermen shall not be liable in damages for exercising the power conferred by this section, unless the party complaining shall show that the same was done maliciously.
(1900 Ga. Laws, page 345, § 55; 1901 Ga. Laws, page 549, § 2; 1902 Ga. Laws, page 510, § 1)
Editor's note— Section 55 of 1900 Ga. Laws, page 345, was renumbered as § 54 by 1901 Ga. Laws, page 549, § 2, and subsequently renumbered as § 53 by 1902 Ga. Laws, page 510, § 1.
State Law reference— Abatement of nuisances in cities, O.C.G.A. § 41-2-5.
Sec. 12. - Adoption of ordinances; procedure.
(a)
In addition to other acts required by general state law or by specific provisions of this charter to be done by ordinance, acts of the city council which have the force and effect of law shall be done by ordinance. The city council by ordinance shall adopt such rules of procedure and form as it deems appropriate for the reading, consideration, and enactment of ordinances.
(b)
Four councilmembers shall constitute a quorum and shall be authorized to transact business of the city council; provided, however, that, when there are no more than four members of council present, it shall require at least three votes to pass any measure, except as otherwise provided in this charter.
(c)
Whenever in this charter a majority vote of councilmembers is required, it shall mean the affirmative vote of at least four councilmembers or, in the case of a tie, the affirmative vote of the mayor and three councilmembers.
(d)
It shall not be necessary to the validity of any ordinance passed by such city council to publish the same in any newspaper or to post a copy of said ordinance.
(1900 Ga. Laws, page 345, § 20; 1902 Ga. Laws, page 510, § 1; 1916 Ga. Laws, page 819, § 1; 1939 Ga. Laws, page 1161, §§ 1B, 1C; 2006 Ga. Laws, page 4197, § 1)
Charter cross reference—Powers of mayor and aldermen, § 7.
Sec. 12.1. - Meetings of city council.
(a)
The city council shall hold regular meetings at such times and places as prescribed by ordinance.
(b)
Special meetings of the city council may be held on call of the mayor or three members of the city council. Notice of such special meetings shall be served on all other members personally, or by telephone personally, at least 24 hours in advance of the meeting. Such notice to councilmembers shall not be required if the mayor and all councilmembers are present when the special meeting is called. Such notice of any special meeting may be waived by a councilmember in writing before or after such a meeting, and attendance at the meeting shall also constitute a waiver of notice on any business transacted in such councilmember's presence. Only the business stated in the call may be transacted at the special meeting.
(c)
All meetings of the city council at which any official action is to be taken shall be public to the extent required by Code Section 50-14-1, et seq., of the O.C.G.A., as amended; and notice of such meetings, whether regular or special, shall be made fully as is reasonably possible at least three days prior to such meetings.
(2006 Ga. Laws, page 4197, § 1)
Sec. 13. - Adoption of technical codes.
The mayor and aldermen of the City of Milledgeville shall have authority to adopt building, plumbing, minimum housing, electrical and gas codes or regulations for the purpose of regulating and providing standards for such activities within the corporate limits of the City of Milledgeville, and to provide for the enforcement of same. The codes or regulations provided for by this section may be adopted by reference by said mayor and aldermen without the necessity of reading the entire code or regulation, as in the case of other city ordinances, but nothing herein shall affect the present method of adoption of all other city ordinances and regulations.
(1959 Ga. Laws, page 2552, § 2)
Sec. 14. - Acceptance of gifts, bequests, to city.
The mayor and aldermen of said city are hereby empowered to accept money and property by gift, grant, will, or otherwise, and to hold the same in trust according to the terms of the gift, grant or legacy, to promote, accomplish or carry out any corporate purpose, or to promote the convenience, health or welfare of all the citizens of said city, or any class thereof. Such money or property may be held in trust for buying, keeping and beautifying cemeteries and burial grounds of said city and the individual squares of the donors of said trust property, the establishment and maintenance of playgrounds and recreation parks, the equipment and maintenance of libraries, hospitals and schools and other corporate enterprises. And the said mayor and aldermen shall invest and preserve such trust property under the terms and conditions of the gift, and where no terms and conditions are prescribed, under the direction of the city council. The City of Milledgeville shall be responsible for the preservation of the trust property received under this section in the same manner as the trustees of private funds.
(1924 Ga. Laws, page 666, § 1)
Sec. 15. - Qualifications for offices of mayor and aldermen.
No person shall be eligible to the office of mayor of said city who has not been a resident thereof for one (1) year or more continuously preceding his election, and who has not attained the age of twenty-five (25) years. Nor shall any person be eligible to the office of alderman of said city who has not been a resident thereof for a like period and who has not attained the age of twenty-one (21) years.
(1900 Ga. Laws, page 345, § 4)
State Law reference— Age and residence requirements for municipal office, O.C.G.A. § 45-2-1(1).
Sec. 16. - Terms of office; oath.
The term of office of mayor and aldermen shall be two (2) [2] years from the first day of January after their election. On the third Monday in December after their election the mayor and aldermen elect shall meet in the city hall and there shall severally take, before some officer authorized under the law of Georgia to administer oaths, the following oath of office, to wit: "I do solemnly swear that I will well and truly demean myself as mayor (or aldermen, as the case may be) of the City of Milledgeville for the ensuing term, and that I will faithfully enforce the charter and ordinances of the city, to the best of my skill and knowledge, without fear or favor, so help me God." Should the mayor or any alderman elect be absent from said meeting, he or they shall take said oath of office as soon as possible thereafter.
(1900 Ga. Laws, page 345, § 10; 1902 Ga. Laws, page 510, § 1)
Footnotes:
--- (2) ---
Editor's note— 1984 Ga. Laws, page 3852, § 1, provided that the mayor and aldermen will be elected for terms of four (4) years. See sections 16A and 25.

Sec. 16A. - When elected officials take office.
The provisions of section 10 [section 16] or any other provision of this charter to the contrary notwithstanding, effective on September 7, 1977, the mayor and aldermen, and any other official of the City of Milledgeville who is elected by the voters of the city[,] shall take office on the first day of the month following the month in which the election is held and shall serve for terms of office as otherwise prescribed in this charter.
(1976 Ga. Laws, page 3278, § 2)
Sec. 17. - Mayor eligible to succeed himself.
All persons qualified to hold the office of mayor of said city shall be eligible to succeed themselves.
(§ 66, added by 1924 Ga. Laws, page 666, § 1; 1939 Ga. Laws, § 1; 1965 Ga. Laws, page 2306, § 3)
Sec. 18. - Filling vacancies; declaration of vacancy for cause.
Whenever a vacancy, from death, removal or resignation, shall happen in the office of the mayor and alderman, the remaining members shall proceed at once to fill the vacancy. Should the mayor or alderman fail or refuse to perform the duties of his office for three (3) consecutive months, the office may, in the discretion of the remaining members of the board, be declared vacant, and the vacancy filled as in case of vacancy by death, resignation or removal.
(1900 Ga. Laws, page 345, § 19)
Sec. 19. - Salary; travel allowance.
(d)[(a)]
The mayor and aldermen shall receive the following salaries for their services on the governing authority of the City of Milledgeville:
(1)
Mayor — Seven hundred dollars ($700.00) per month;
(2)
Mayor pro tempore — Six hundred dollars ($600.00) per month;
(3)
Alderman — Five hundred dollars ($500.00) per month.
(e)[(b)]
The mayor and aldermen shall also be entitled to receive a travel allowance in carrying out their duties as follows:
(1)
Mayor — One hundred fifty dollars ($150.00) per month;
(2)
Mayor pro tempore — One hundred twenty-five dollars ($125.00) per month;
(3)
Alderman — One hundred dollars ($100.00) per month.
(1900 Ga. Laws, page 345, § 18; 1983 Ga. Laws, page 4330, § 1; 1991 Ga. Laws, § 1; Ord. No. O-01-03, 3-27-2001)
Charter cross references—Officers authorized, salaries, terms of office, dismissal, oath, § 20; salaries of officers and employees, § 24.
State Law reference— Compensation of members of governing authority, O.C.G.A. § 36-35-4.
