Chapter 10 - ANIMALS[1]
Footnotes:
--- (1) ---
Charter reference— Animal pound, § 60.
Cross reference— Noise, § 30-66 et seq.
State Law reference— Authority to exercise animal control, Ga. Const., art. 9, sec. 2, par. 3(a)(3); livestock running at large or straying, O.C.G.A. § 4-3-1 et seq.; permitting dogs in heat to roam or run free, O.C.G.A. § 4-8-6; Dangerous Dog Control Law, O.C.G.A. § 4-8-20 et seq.; Georgia Animal Protection Act, O.C.G.A. § 4-11-1 et seq.; control of rabies, O.C.G.A. § 31-19-1 et seq.; cruelty to animals, O.C.G.A. § 16-12-4; liability of owner or keeper of vicious or dangerous animal for injuries caused by animal, O.C.G.A. § 51-2-7.

ARTICLE I. - IN GENERAL

Sec. 10-1. - Designation of city as bird sanctuary; penalty for violation.
(a)
The entire area embraced within the corporate limits of the city is designated as a bird sanctuary.
(b)
It shall be unlawful to trap, hunt, shoot or attempt to shoot or molest in any manner any bird or wild fowl or to rob bird nests or wild fowl nests. However, if starlings, similar birds, or any other birds are found to be congregating in such numbers or in such manner as to be or constitute a nuisance or menace to health or property in the opinion of the proper authorities and the city, then. The city may grant permission for the controlled destruction of such birds in such numbers as the city may deem appropriate. This destruction shall be under the supervision of the chief of police or his designate.
(c)
Anyone violating the provisions of this section shall, upon conviction, be punished as provided in section 1-12.
(Ord. of 4-24-78)
Secs. 10-2—10-25. - Reserved.
ARTICLE II. - DOGS AND CATS[2]
Footnotes:
--- (2) ---
Cross reference— Offenses and miscellaneous provisions, ch. 38.

DIVISION 1. - GENERALLY

Sec. 10-26. - Definitions.
The following words, terms and phrases, when used in this article, shall have the meanings ascribed to them in this section, except where the context clearly indicates a different meaning:
Animal control officer means an employee of the sanitation department of the city whose duties specifically include enforcement of the provisions of this article.
Governing authority means the city council.
Local government means the city, a municipal corporation.
Owner means any natural person or any legal entity including, but not limited to, a corporation, partnership, firm, or trust, owning, possessing, harboring, keeping, or having custody or control of a dog or cat within the territorial boundaries of the city.
Proper enclosure means an enclosure for keeping a dog or potentially dangerous dog, while on the owner's property, securely confined indoors or in a securely enclosed and locked pen, fence, or structure suitable to prevent the entry of young children and designed to prevent the dog from escaping. Any such pen or structure shall have secure sides and a secure top, and, if the dog is enclosed within a fence, all sides of the fence shall be of sufficient height and the bottom of the fence shall be constructed or secured in such a manner as to prevent the dog's escape either from over or from under the fence. Any such enclosure shall also provide protection from the elements for the dog.
Records of an appropriate authority means records of any state, county, or municipal law enforcement agency, records of any county or municipal animal control agency; records of any county board of health; records of any federal, state, or local court.
(Ord. of 2-25-91, § 1)
Cross reference— Definitions generally, § 1-2.
Sec. 10-27. - Penalty for violation of article.
The keeping of any dog or cat in violation of this article shall be an offense against the city and punishable, upon citation to the owner, before the municipal court.
(Ord. of 2-25-91, § 5)
Sec. 10-28. - Restraint; abatement of nuisances; citation.
(a)
The owner or keeper of each dog or cat within the city shall keep it from becoming a nuisance and from endangering or injuring any person. Dogs shall be at all times:
(1)
Kept within a proper enclosure from which it cannot escape;
(2)
Restrained upon the owner's property by a substantial chain, cable, rope or other device from which it cannot escape so as to not reach any adjoining property or public right-of-way; or
(3)
Restrained on a leash and accompanied by the owner or other responsible person.
(b)
Whenever a dog or cat is kept in such manner, as constitutes a nuisance, a proceeding to abate the nuisance may be brought by the party aggrieved. A nuisance shall include, but not be limited to, dogs barking for a prolonged period of time. An animal found by the court to constitute a nuisance may be impounded by the city if the owner, after reasonable opportunity to do so, fails to abate the nuisance as ordered by the court.
(c)
Whenever a dog is allowed to roam free, in violation of this section, impoundment of the animal is authorized. Upon identification of the owner, a citation shall be issued for violation of this section.
(Ord. of 2-25-91, § 2)
Secs. 10-29—10-40. - Reserved.
DIVISION 2. - IMPOUNDMENT AND DISPOSITION

Sec. 10-41. - Notice of impoundment.
All dogs and cats impounded by the city shall be held in a humane manner. The animal control officer shall make a diligent effort to ascertain the owner of the animal and shall give the owner prompt notice of the fact or impoundment. Notice shall be given by the best means
possible to ensure actual receipt by the owner. If the owner is personally-served, the notice may be left with a person of responsible age residing at the address, or conspicuously tacked on the main entrance thereof. The notice shall advise the owner that the animal will be held for a period of three days, exclusive of the date of service. Thereafter, the animal may be disposed of in accordance with this section. All dogs and cats impounded by the city shall be held in a humane manner. The animal control officer shall make a diligent effort to ascertain the owner of the animal and shall give the owner prompt notice of the fact of impoundment. Notice shall be given by the best means possible to ensure actual receipt by the owner. If the owner is personally served, the notice may be left with a person of responsible age residing at the address, or conspicuously tacked on the main entrance thereof. The notice shall advise the owner that the animal will be held for a period of six days, exclusive of the date of service. Thereafter, the animal may be disposed of in accordance with this section.
(Ord. of 2-25-91, § 4(A); Ord. No. 01-04-10-2, §§ 1, 2, 4-10-01)
Sec. 10-42. - Fees.
The city clerk shall charge and assess such fees for pickup and impoundment as set forth in a schedule approved by the city council, as may be from time to time amended. If the owner cannot show proof of current rabies vaccination, the animal shall be vaccinated by a licensed veterinarian before release, and the cost thereof collected from the owner.
(Ord. of 2-25-91, § 4(B))
Sec. 10-43. - Posting of photos.
If the owner of a dog or cat is unknown, the animal control officer shall take a photo of the dog or cat and attach the photo, date and location where the dog or cat was picked up, and also state the dog's or cat's present location where the animal may be reclaimed.
(Ord. of 2-25-91, § 4(C))
Sec. 10-44. - Disposition—Impounded animals.
Any impounded animal may be disposed of in accordance with the written agreement between the city council and the county, or any other entity that the city council contracts with to handle impounded animals. Disposal of animals shall be made by adoption or by destruction in an expedient and humane manner. Animals may be held beyond the three-day holding period if circumstances warrant.
(Ord. of 2-25-91, § 4; Ord. No. 01-04-10-2, §§ 3, 4, 4-10-01)
Sec. 10-45. - Same—Dead animals on public right-of-way.
If any dead dog or cat is found upon the public right-of-way, the city shall remove and dispose of the animal and notify the owner if the owner is known.
(Ord. of 2-25-91, § 4)
Secs. 10-46—10-55. - Reserved.
DIVISION 3. - RABIES CONTROL

Sec. 10-56. - Inoculation required.
All dogs and cats shall be inoculated against rabies in accordance with the procedures set forth in the county rabies control rules and regulations, as promulgated and from time to time amended by the county board of health, which procedures, by reference, are expressly incorporated as a part of this section as if fully set out in this section. Violation of such rules and regulations may be enforced by issuing a citation, as an offense against the city.
(Ord. of 2-25-91, § 3(A))
Sec. 10-57. - Registration; fees; certificate.
Between January 1 and March 1 of each year, the owner of each dog and cat shall present to the city a current certificate of vaccination, and complete the registration form provided by the city, giving therein the full name, address, and telephone number of the owner, breed and sex of the animal, type of animal, and number of the current vaccination tag. Upon payment of a fee set from time to time by the city council and listed in the schedule of fees and charges, and completion of the requirements of this section, the city shall issue to the owner a certificate of registration. All certificates shall be valid until March 1 of the following calendar year; provided, however, that no certificate of registration shall be transferable. It shall be the duty of the owner to notify the city, within 24 hours, if the dog dies, is sold or transferred. If sold or transferred to a new owner within the city, the name, address and telephone number of the new owner shall be provided.
(Ord. of 2-25-91, § 3(B))
Sec. 10-58. - Animals brought into city after registration period.
Owners acquiring or bringing animals into the city after March 1 and before January 1 of the following year shall immediately cause the animal to be registered with the city in the manner provided by section 10-57.
(Ord. of 2-25-91, § 3)
Sec. 10-59. - Vaccination tag required.
The numbered vaccination tag, issued by a licensed veterinarian upon inoculation, shall be attached to a collar or harness and worn by the animal at all times. Every dog found roaming or running free, whether tagged or untagged, shall be impounded. Every untagged cat found roaming or running free shall be impounded. If a tagged animal is impounded, and it is found not to be registered or its current registration has expired, the owner may be cited for violation of this section.
(Ord. of 2-25-91, § 3)
