Chapter 1 - GENERAL PROVISIONS

Sec. 1-1. - How Code designated and cited.
The ordinances embraced in the following chapters and sections shall constitute and be designated "The Code of the City of Grantville, Georgia," and may be so cited. The Code may also be cited as the "Grantville City Code" or the "City Code."
Sec. 1-2. - Definitions and rules of construction.
In the construction of this Code and of all ordinances, the ordinary signification shall be applied to all words, except words of art, or words connected with a particular trade or subject matter, when they shall have the signification attached to them by experts in such trade, or with reference to such subject matter; provided the following definitions and rules of construction shall be observed, unless such definition or construction would be inconsistent with the manifest intent of the city council:
Bond. When a bond is required by law, an undertaking in writing, without seal, is sufficient; and in all bonds where the names of the obligors do not appear in the bond, but are subscribed thereto, they are bound thereby.
City. The term "the city" or "this city" shall be construed as if the words "of Grantville, Georgia," followed them.
City officials, officers, employees, etc. Whenever reference is made to officials, boards, commissions, departments, etc., by title only, i.e., "clerk," "recorder," "planning commission," or any other such designation, such reference shall be deemed to be to officials, etc., of the city, including grants of such powers and authority to their respective duly designated subordinates.
Code. The term "Code" means The Code of the City of Grantville, Georgia, as designated in section 1-1.
Computation of time. When a number of days is prescribed for the exercise of any privilege, or the discharge of any duty, the first day to be counted shall be the day after the date from which said number of days is prescribed to be counted, and if the last day shall fall on Saturday or Sunday, the party having such privilege or duty shall have through the following Monday to exercise such privilege or to discharge such duty. When the last day prescribed for such action shall fall on a public or legal holiday as set forth in the Georgia Code, as amended, or additionally as designated by the city council, enumerating public and legal holidays, the party having such privilege or duty shall have through the following day to exercise such privilege or to discharge such duty; however, when said following day shall be a Saturday or Sunday, the party shall have through the following Monday to exercise such privilege or to discharge such duty.
Council, city council, governing body, governing authority. Wherever the term "council," "city council," "governing body" or "governing authority" is used, the same means the city council of Grantville, Georgia.
County. The term "the county" or "this county" means Coweta County, Georgia.
Gender. A word importing one gender only shall extend and be applied to the other genders, including firms, partnerships and corporations as well as individuals.
Joint authority. All words giving a joint authority to three or more persons or officers shall be construed as giving such authority to a majority of such persons or officers.
Keeper, proprietor. The terms "keeper" and "proprietor" mean and include persons, firms, associations, corporations, clubs and co-partnerships, whether acting by themselves or as a servant, agent or employee.
May. The term "may" shall be deemed as permissive.
Month. The term "month" means calendar month.
Number. A word importing the singular number only may extend and be applied to several persons and things as well as to one person and thing.
Oath. The term "oath" includes an affirmation. When an oath is required or authorized by law, an affirmation in lieu thereof may be taken. An affirmation has the same force and effect as an oath.
Or, and. The term "or" may be read "and" and the term "and" may be read "or," if the sense requires it.
Owner. The term "owner," applied to a building or land, includes any part owner, joint owner, tenant in common, tenant in partnership or joint tenant of the whole or of a part of such building or land.
Person. The term "person" extends and is applied to associations, societies, clubs, firms, partnerships and bodies politic and corporate as well as to individuals.
Personal property. The term "personal property" includes every species of property except real property, as herein defined.
Preceding, following. The terms "preceding" and "following" mean next before and next after, respectively.
Property. The term "property" includes real, personal and mixed estates and interests.
Public place. The term "public place" includes any place that the public is invited or permitted to go or congregate.
Real property, real estate, land. The terms "real property," "real estate" and "land" include lands, tenements and hereditaments.
Shall. The term "shall" is mandatory and not merely directory.
Sidewalk. The term "sidewalk" means any portion of a street between the curbline and the adjacent property line, intended for the use of pedestrians, excluding parkways.
Signature, subscription. The terms "signature" and "subscription" include a mark when the person cannot write.
State. The term "state" preceding the name of any agency or officer, and the terms "the state" and "this state" mean the State of Georgia.
Street. The term "street" shall be construed to embrace streets, avenues, boulevards, roads and all other public ways in the city, and shall embrace all parts thereof within the designated right-of-way. In those instances where the public records are silent, the term shall embrace all of the area between the off-street edge of the sidewalk or walkway on each side of the street, including the grassplots or other divisional areas lying between the sidewalk and walkway and street.
Tenant, occupant. The terms "tenant" and "occupant," applied to a building or land, include any person holding a written or oral lease of, or who occupies, the whole or a part of such building or land, either alone or with others.
Time. Words used in the past or present tense include the future as well as the past and present.
Written, in writing. The term "written" or "in writing" shall be construed to include any representation of words, letters or figures, whether by printing or otherwise.
Year. The term "year" means a calendar year.
State Law reference— Computation of time, O.C.G.A. § 1-3-1; construction of definitions, O.C.G.A. § 1-3-2; meaning of certain words, O.C.G.A. § 1-3-3.
Sec. 1-3. - Interpretation of Code.
In all interpretations of this Code, and ordinances, the courts shall look diligently for the intention of the city council, keeping in view, at all times, the old law, the evil, and the remedy. Grammatical errors shall not vitiate, and a transposition of words and clauses may be resorted to when the sentence or clause is without meaning as it stands.
State Law reference— Similar provisions as to state laws, O.C.G.A. § 1-3-1.
Sec. 1-4. - Provisions considered as continuations of existing ordinances, etc.
The provisions of this Code, so far as they are in substance the same as those ordinances existing at the time of the effective date of this Code, shall be considered as continuing and superseding those ordinances and not as new enactments.
Sec. 1-5. - Effect of repeal of ordinance.
(a)
The repeal of an ordinance shall not revive any ordinances in force before or at the time the ordinance repealed took effect.
(b)
The repeal of an ordinance shall not affect any punishment or penalty incurred before the repeal took effect, nor any suit, prosecution or proceeding pending at the time of the repeal, for an offense committed under the ordinance repealed.
Sec. 1-6. - Supplementation of Code.
(a)
By contract or by city personnel, supplements to this Code shall be prepared and printed whenever authorized or directed by the council. A supplement to the Code shall include all substantive permanent and general parts of ordinances passed by the council during the period covered by the supplement and all changes made thereby in the Code. The pages of a supplement shall be so numbered that they will fit properly into the Code and will, where necessary, replace pages which have become obsolete or partially obsolete, and the new pages shall be so prepared that, when they have been inserted, the Code will be current through the date of the adoption of the latest ordinance included in the supplement.
(b)
In preparing a supplement to this Code, all portions of the Code which have been repealed shall be excluded from the Code by the omission thereof from reprinted pages.
(c)
When preparing a supplement to this Code, the codifier (meaning the person, agency or organization authorized to prepare the supplement) may make formal, nonsubstantive changes in ordinances and parts of ordinances included in the supplement, insofar as it is necessary to do so to embody them into a unified code. For example, the codifier may:
(1)
Organize the ordinance material into appropriate subdivisions;
(2)
Provide appropriate catchlines, headings and titles for sections and other subdivisions of the Code printed in the supplement, and make changes in such catchlines, headings and titles;
(3)
Assign appropriate numbers to sections and other subdivisions to be inserted in the Code, and, where necessary to accommodate new material, change existing section or other subdivision numbers;
(4)
Change the words "this ordinance" or words of the same meaning to "this chapter," "this article," "this division," etc., as the case may be, or to "sections _____ to _____" (inserting section numbers to indicate the sections of the Code which embody the substantive sections of the ordinance incorporated into the Code); and
(5)
Make other nonsubstantive changes necessary to preserve the original meanings of ordinance sections inserted in the Code; but in no case shall the codifier make any change in the meaning or effect of ordinance material included in the supplement or already embodied in the Code.
Sec. 1-7. - General penalty; continuing violations.
(a)
Whenever in this Code or in any ordinance of the city any act is prohibited or is made or declared to be unlawful or an offense, or whenever in this Code or any ordinance the doing of any act is required and the failure to do such act is declared to be unlawful, and no specific penalty is provided, and unless otherwise provided by state law, the violation of any such provision of this Code or any such ordinance shall be punished by a fine not to exceed $1,000.00 and imprisonment in the city or county jail and work and labor on the streets or public works of the city, whether within or without the corporate limits, not exceeding 12 months or both a fine and sentence of imprisonment and labor; and all sentences may be in the alternative and fines may be imposed with the alternative of sentence to imprisonment and labor if the fines are not paid. Each day any violation of this Code or of any ordinance shall continue shall constitute a separate offense.
(b)
Violations of this Code may be abated by injunctive or other equitable relief. The imposition of a penalty does not prevent injunctive relief.
(c)
The judge of the municipal court shall have the power and authority to:
(1)
Impose upon persons convicted in the municipal court the fines provided for in this Code, the ordinances of the city, or as otherwise provided by law, with the alternative of other punishment allowed by law, if such fines are not paid;
(2)
Sentence such person to community service work; or
(3)
Impose a sentence consisting of any combination of the penalties provided for in this section.
(d)
The judge of the municipal court shall have full power and authority to declare the forfeiture of bonds given by offenders for their appearance before the municipal court upon the offender's failure to appear as provided for in such bond. The procedure for the forfeiture of such bonds shall be as is provided for the forfeiture of bonds and recognizance set forth in O.C.G.A. § 17-6-70 et seq.
State Law reference— Limitations on penalties, O.C.G.A. § 36-35-6(a)(2); imposition of additional penalty for certain drug offenses, O.C.G.A. § 15-21-100; imposition of additional penalty for offense of driving under the influence of alcohol or drugs, O.C.G.A. § 15-21-112; additional penalty to be imposed in criminal and traffic cases to provide training to law enforcement officers and prosecuting officials, O.C.G.A. § 15-21-73; additional penalty assessments for jail construction and staffing, O.C.G.A. § 15-21-93; punishment for misdemeanors generally, O.C.G.A. § 17-10-3; deposit of driver's license for violations of laws pertaining to traffic and motor vehicles, O.C.G.A. § 17-6-11; payments to peace officers annuity and benefit fund from revenues collected from fines and fees, O.C.G.A. § 47-17-60 et seq.; alternative punishments for violations involving a traffic offense, O.C.G.A. § 17-10-3(e).
Sec. 1-8. - Catchlines of sections.
The catchlines of the several sections of this Code printed in boldface type are intended as mere catchwords to indicate the contents of the sections and shall not be deemed or taken to be titles of such sections, nor as any part of such sections, nor, unless expressly so provided, shall they be so deemed when any of such sections, including the catchlines, are amended or re-enacted.
State Law reference— Notes and catchlines of Code sections not part of law, O.C.G.A. § 1-1-7.
Sec. 1-9. - Altering Code.
It shall be unlawful for any person in the city to change or amend by additions or deletions, any part or portion of this Code, or to insert, or delete pages or portions thereof, or to alter or tamper with such Code in any manner whatsoever which will cause the law of the city to be misrepresented thereby.
State Law reference— Alteration, etc., of public records constitutes a misdemeanor, O.C.G.A. § 45-11-1.
Sec. 1-10. - Substantive compliance with Code.
A substantial compliance with any requirement of the Code, or ordinances, especially on the part of public officers, shall be deemed and held sufficient, and no proceeding shall be declared void for want of such compliance, unless expressly so provided by the enactment.
Sec. 1-11. - Severability of parts of Code.
It is hereby declared to be the intention of the city council that the sections, paragraphs, sentences, clauses and phrases of this Code are severable, and if any phrase, clause, sentence, paragraph or section of this Code shall be declared invalid or unconstitutional by the valid judgment or decree of any court of competent jurisdiction, such invalidity or unconstitutionality shall not affect any of the remaining phrases, clauses, sentences, paragraphs and sections of this Code, since the same would have been enacted by the city council without incorporation in this Code of any such invalid or unconstitutional phrase, clause, sentence, paragraph or section.
State Law reference— Similar provision, O.C.G.A. § 1-1-3.
Sec. 1-12. - Prior offenses, penalties and rights not affected by adoption of Code.
(a)
Nothing in this Code or the ordinance adopting this Code shall affect any offense or act committed or done or any penalty or forfeiture incurred or any contract or right established or accruing before the effective date of this Code.
(b)
Nothing contained in this chapter shall be construed as abating any action pending under or by virtue of any general ordinance of the city repealed in this chapter, and all general ordinances contained in this Code shall be deemed to be continuing and not a new enactment of the same ordinance. This chapter shall not be deemed as discontinuing, abating, modifying or altering any penalty accrued or to accrue or as affecting the liability of any person or as waiving any right of the city under any ordinance or section thereof in force at the time of the adoption of this Code.
Sec. 1-13. - Rates, charges, and fees established.
(a)
Unless otherwise provided for, all rates, charges, or fees necessary for the administration and enforcement of the provisions of this Code shall be as currently established or as hereafter adopted by motion, resolution or ordinance of the city council, from time to time. Any rates, charges, or fees established by the city pursuant to the regulations or requirements established herein may be changed from time to time by the city council, and such changes shall both be considered an amendment to this Code.
(b)
Whenever any provision of this Code provides that a rate, charge, or fee shall be established by the city council, from time to time, and the amount of such rate, charge, or fee is not expressed in this Code in any dollar amount, then the amount of such rate, charge, or fee shall be the most recent and latest amount established, set or fixed by the city council by ordinance, resolution or motion.
Sec. 1-14. - Amendments to code; effect of new ordinances; amendatory language.
(a)
All ordinances passed subsequent to this code which amend, repeal or in any way affect this code may be numbered in accordance with the numbering system of this code and printed for inclusion herein. When subsequent ordinances repeal any chapter, section or subsection or any portion thereof, the repealed portion may be excluded from this Code by omission from reprinted pages.
(b)
Amendments to any of the provisions of this code shall be made by amending the provisions by specific reference to the section of this code in substantially the following language: "Section _____ of The Code of the City of Grantville, Georgia, is hereby amended to read as follows:…. (Set out new provisions in full)."
(c)
When the council desires to enact an ordinance of a general and permanent nature on a subject not heretofore existing in the code, which the council desires to incorporate into the code, a section in substantially the following language shall be made a part of the ordinance:
"Section _____. It is the intention of the city council and it is hereby ordained that the provisions of this ordinance shall become and be made a part of The Code of the City of Grantville, Georgia, and the sections of the Code and this ordinance may be renumbered to accomplish that intention."
(d)
All sections, articles, chapters or provisions of this code desired to be repealed shall be specifically repealed by section or chapter number, as the case may be.
(e)
Where necessary to avoid a conflict with existing provisions of this code, amending ordinances may be renumbered by the official codifier for the city to carry out the intent of the council, provided that no such numbering change shall be made without prior approval of the city.
Sec. 1-15. - Certain ordinances not repealed or affected by adoption of Code.
(a)
Nothing in this Code or the ordinance adopting this Code shall be construed to repeal or otherwise affect the validity of any of the following:
(1)
Any offense or act committed or done or any penalty or forfeiture incurred or any contract or right established or accruing before the effective date of this Code;
(2)
Any ordinance or resolution promising or guaranteeing the payment of money for the city or authorizing the issuance of any bonds of the city or any evidence of the city's indebtedness;
(3)
Any contract or obligation assumed by the city;
(4)
Any ordinance or resolution fixing the salary of any city officer or employee, unless superseded;
(5)
Any ordinance or resolution establishing and/or prescribing employment, benefits, and/or personnel policies and procedures;
(6)
Any right of franchise granted by the city to any person, firm, or corporation;
(7)
Any ordinance or resolution dedicating, naming, establishing, locating, relocating, closing, opening, widening, paving, vacating, etc., any street or public way in the city;
(8)
Any ordinance or resolution establishing and prescribing the street grades of any street in the city;
(9)
Any appropriation ordinance;
(10)
Any ordinance or resolution which, by its own terms, is effective for a stated or limited term;
(11)
Any ordinance or resolution providing for local improvements and assessing taxes therefor;
(12)
Any zoning ordinance or amendments thereto, and any ordinance establishing a board of zoning appeals or planning commission, including joint commissions;
(13)
Any ordinance or resolution dedicating or accepting any subdivision plat or providing for subdivision regulations;
(14)
Any ordinance or resolution describing or altering the boundaries of the city or annexing property to the city;
(15)
The administrative ordinances or resolutions of the city not in conflict or inconsistent with the provisions of this Code;
(16)
Any ordinance levying or imposing taxes not included in this Code;
(17)
Any ordinance or regulation prescribing traffic regulations for specific locations concerning through streets, parking limitations, parking prohibitions, one-way traffic, limitations on loads of vehicles or loading zones, not in conflict or inconsistent with this Code;
(18)
Any ordinance or resolution of agreement with another political subdivision;
(19)
Any provision regarding the title of an ordinance adopted by the city council; and
(20)
Any other ordinance or resolution, or part thereof, which is not of a general and permanent nature; or which is referred to elsewhere in this Code as continuing in effect.
(b)
Nor shall the repeal of any such ordinance or resolution be construed to revive any ordinance, resolution or part thereof that has been repealed or superseded by a subsequent ordinance or resolution which is repealed or superseded by this chapter. All such ordinances are hereby recognized as continuing in full force and effect to the same extent as if set out at length in this Code.
