ARTICLE II. - UNIFORM CONSTRUCTION CODES
DIVISION 1. - GENERALLY

Sec. 11-21. - Scope—State minimum standard codes.
(a)
Unless otherwise provided for by subsequent ordinance or another provision of this Code of Ordinances, the city hereby adopts and incorporates by reference, as fully as if set forth verbatim, the latest editions of the state minimum standard codes enumerated in O.C.G.A.§ 8-2-20(9)(B), as adopted and amended by the Department of Community Affairs.
(1)
International Building Code (ICC)
(2)
International Residential Code for One and Two-Family Dwellings (ICC)
(3)
National Electrical Code (NFPA)
(4)
International Fuel Gas Code (ICC)
(5)
International Mechanical Code (ICC)
(6)
International Plumbing Code (ICC)
(7)
International Energy Code Conservation Code (ICC)
(8)
International Fire Code (ICC)
(9)
International Swimming Pool and Spa Code (ICC)
(b)
Additionally, pursuant to O.C.G.A.§ 8-2-25, the city adopts and incorporates by reference, as fully as if set forth verbatim, the latest editions of the following codes:
a.
International Property Maintenance Code (ICC)
b.
Standard Housing Code (SBCCI)
c.
Standard Swimming Pool Code (SBCCI)
(c)
If any of the publications listed in subsection (a) of this section are adopted as a state minimum code pursuant to O.C.G.A.§ 8-2-20 et seq., then the edition adopted by the state shall control. If any of the publications listed in subsection (a) of this section are less stringent than the state minimum codes promulgated pursuant to O.C.G.A.§ 8-2- 20 et seq., then the state minimum code shall control.
(d)
The codes referenced in subsection (b) of this section shall mean the current edition of such codes as approved by the Georgia Department of Community Affairs and shall include any amendments promulgated by the Georgia Department of Community Affairs.
(e)
The codes referenced in subsection (a) and (b) of the section shall be enforced by the City Manager, his designated representatives (Building Official and Code Enforcement Officer) or designee(s) thereof in accordance with the procedures hereinafter set forth.
(f)
A copy of each of the publications/ codes listed in subsection (a) and (b) are filed in the City Clerk's office and available for review by the public. The publications/ codes in subsections (a) and (b) are approved, adopted and incorporated by reference as fully as if set forth verbatim, and from the date on which this ordinance shall take effects the provisions thereof shall be controlling within the City.
(Ord. of 5-11-2009, § 101.1; Ord. No. 2021-02 , 6-28-2021)
Sec. 11-22. - Codes remedial.
The codes are hereby declared to be remedial and shall be construed to secure the beneficial interests and purposes thereof, which are public safety, health and general welfare through structural strength, stability, sanitation, adequate light and ventilation, and safety to life and property from fire and other hazards attributed to the built environment including alteration, repair, removal, demolition, use and occupancy of buildings, structures, or premises, and by regulating the installation and maintenance of all electrical, gas, mechanical and plumbing systems, which may be referred to as service systems.
(Ord. of 5-11-2009, § 101.2.1)
Sec. 11-23. - Permitting and inspection.
The inspection or permitting of any building, system or plan by any jurisdiction, under the requirements of the codes, shall not be construed in any court as a warranty of the physical condition of such building, system or plan or their adequacy. No jurisdiction nor any employee thereof shall be liable in tort for damages for any defect or hazardous or illegal condition or inadequacy in such building, system or plan, nor for any failure of any component of such, which may occur subsequent to such inspection or permitting.
(Ord. of 5-11-2009, § 101.2.2)
Sec. 11-24. - Applicability.
Where, in any specific case, different sections of the codes specify different materials, methods of construction or other requirements, the most restrictive shall govern. Where there is a conflict between a general requirement and a specific requirement, the specific requirement shall be applicable.
(Ord. of 5-11-2009, § 101.3.1)
Sec. 11-25. - References to officials in adopted technical codes.
Where reference is made to the duties of certain officials named within the technical codes which are adopted by reference and made applicable to building and construction in this chapter, then that designated official of the city or of the county, who has duties corresponding to those of the named official in said technical code, shall be deemed to be the responsible official insofar as enforcing the provisions of that technical code are concerned.
Sec. 11-26. - Building.
The provisions of the state minimum standard building code shall apply to the construction, alteration, repair, equipment, use and occupancy, location, maintenance, removal and demolition, of every building or structure or any appurtenances connected or attached to such building or structures.
(Ord. of 5-11-2009, § 101.3.2)
Sec. 11-27. - Electrical.
The provisions of the state minimum standard electrical code shall apply to the installation of electrical systems, including alterations, repairs, replacement, equipment, appliances, fixtures, fittings and appurtenances thereof.
(Ord. of 5-11-2009, § 101.3.3)
Sec. 11-28. - Gas.
The provisions of the state minimum standard gas code shall apply to the installation of consumers' gas piping, gas appliances and related accessories as covered in the codes. These requirements apply to gas piping systems extending from the point of delivery to the inlet connections of appliances and the installation and operation of residential and commercial gas appliances and related accessories.
(Ord. of 5-11-2009, § 101.3.4)
Sec. 11-29. - Mechanical.
The provisions of the state minimum standard mechanical code shall apply to the installation of mechanical systems, including alterations, repairs, replacement, equipment, appliances, fixtures, fittings and/or appurtenances, including ventilating, heating, cooling, air conditioning and refrigeration systems, incinerators, and other energy related systems.
(Ord. of 5-11-2009, § 101.3.5)
Sec. 11-30. - Plumbing.
The provisions of the state minimum standard plumbing code shall apply to every plumbing installation, including alterations, repairs, replacement, equipment, appliances, fixtures, fittings and appurtenances, when connected to a water or sewerage system.
(Ord. of 5-11-2009, § 101.3.6)
Sec. 11-31. - Fire.
The provisions of the state minimum standard fire prevention code shall apply to the repair, equipment, use and occupancy, and maintenance of every existing building or structure or any existing appurtenances connected or attached to such building or structure. When there are specific requirements, they shall take precedence over the general provisions.
(Ord. of 5-11-2009, § 101.3.7)
Sec. 11-32. - Energy.
The provisions of the state energy code for buildings shall regulate the design of building envelopes for adequate thermal resistance and low air leakage and the design and selection of mechanical, electrical, service water-heating and illumination systems and equipment which will enable effective use of energy in new building construction.
(Ord. of 5-11-2009, § 101.3.8)
Sec. 11-33. - One- and two-family dwellings.
The provisions of the state minimum standard one- and two-family dwelling code shall apply to the construction, addition, prefabrication, alteration, repair, use, occupancy and maintenance of detached one- and two-family dwellings not more than three stories in height, and their accessory structures.
(Ord. of 5-11-2009, § 101.3.9)
Sec. 11-34. - Appendices.
All appendices included in the technical codes are adopted as part of this article.
(Ord. of 5-11-2009, § 101.3.10)
Sec. 11-35. - Referenced standards.
Standards referenced in the technical codes shall be considered an integral part of the codes without separate adoption. Where differences occur between provisions of the codes and referenced standards, the provisions of the codes shall apply.
(Ord. of 5-11-2009, § 101.3.11)
Secs. 11-36—11-58. - Reserved.
DIVISION 2. - BUILDING DEPARTMENT

Sec. 11-59. - Establishment.
There is hereby established a department to be called the building department and the person in charge shall be known as the building official. The mayor and council are authorized to contract with persons or entities who are not city employees to provide the services of the building official.
(Ord. of 5-11-2009, § 102.1)
Sec. 11-60. - Deputies.
In accordance with the prescribed procedures of this jurisdiction and with the concurrence of the governing authority, the building official shall have the authority to appoint a deputy building official, the related technical officers, inspectors, plan examiners and other employees.
(Ord. of 5-11-2009, § 102.3)
Sec. 11-61. - Restrictions on employees.
An officer or employee connected with the department shall not be financially interested in the furnishing of labor, material, or appliances for the construction, alteration, or maintenance of a building, structure, system, or in the making of plans or of specifications thereof, unless he is the owner of such. This officer or employee shall not engage in any other work which is inconsistent with his duties or conflicts with the interests of the department.
(Ord. of 5-11-2009, § 102.4)
Sec. 11-62. - Records.
The building official shall keep, or cause to be kept, a record of the business of the department.
(Ord. of 5-11-2009, § 102.5)
Sec. 11-63. - Liability.
The building official, any officer or employee charged with the enforcement of the codes, acting for the applicable governing authority in the discharge of his duties, shall not thereby render himself personally liable, and is hereby relieved from all personal liability, for any damage that may accrue to persons or property as a result of any act required or permitted in the discharge of his duties. Any suit brought against any officer or employee because of such act performed by him in the enforcement of any provisions of the codes shall be defended by the city attorney until the final termination of the proceedings. The building official or any subordinate shall not be liable for cost in any action, suit or proceeding that is instituted in pursuance of the provisions of the codes.
(Ord. of 5-11-2009, § 102.6)
Secs. 11-64—11-84. - Reserved.
DIVISION 3. - POWERS AND DUTIES OF THE BUILDING OFFICIAL

Sec. 11-85. - Authorization.
The building official is hereby authorized and directed to enforce the provisions of this code. The building official is further authorized to render interpretations of this code, which are consistent with its spirit and purpose.
(Ord. of 5-11-2009, § 103.1)
Sec. 11-86. - Right of entry.
(a)
Whenever necessary to make an inspection to enforce any of the provisions of the codes, or whenever the building official has reasonable cause to believe that there exists in any building or upon any premises any condition or code violation which makes such building, structure, premises, electrical, gas, mechanical or plumbing systems unsafe, dangerous or hazardous, the building official may enter such building, structure or premises at all reasonable times to inspect the same or to perform any duty imposed upon the building official by the codes. If such building or premises are occupied, he shall first present proper credentials and request entry. If such building, structure, or premises are unoccupied; he shall first make a reasonable effort to locate the owner or other persons having charge or control of such and request entry. If entry is refused, the building official shall have recourse to every remedy provided by law to secure entry.
(b)
When the building official shall have first obtained a proper inspection warrant or other remedy provided by law to secure entry, no owner or occupant or any other persons having charge, care or control of any building, structure, or premises shall fail or neglect, after proper request is made as herein provided, to promptly permit entry therein by the building official for the purpose of inspection and examination pursuant to the codes.
(Ord. of 5-11-2009, § 103.2)
Sec. 11-87. - Stop work orders.
Upon notice from the building official, work on any lot or property, building, structure, electrical, gas, mechanical or plumbing system that is being done contrary to the provisions of the codes or local ordinances or in a dangerous or unsafe manner, shall immediately cease. The building official or his representative shall post a stop work order on the site.
(Ord. of 5-11-2009, § 103.3.1)
Sec. 11-88. - Unlawful continuance.
Any person who shall continue to work in or at out the property, building, or structure after the posting of a stop work order, except such work as that person is directed to perform to remove a violation or unsafe condition, shall be subject to penalties as prescribed by law.
(Ord. of 5-11-2009, § 103.3.2)
Sec. 11-89. - Revocation of permits; misrepresentation of application.
The building official may revoke a permit or approval, issued under the provisions of this article, in case there has been any false statement or misrepresentation as to the material fact in the application or plans on which the permit or approval was based.
(Ord. of 5-11-2009, § 103.4.1)
Sec. 11-90. - Revocation of permits; violation of code provisions.
The building official may revoke a permit upon determination by the building official that the construction, erection, alteration, repair, moving, demolition, installation, or replacement of the building, structure, electrical, gas, mechanical or plumbing systems for which the permit was issued is in violation of, or not in conformity with, the provisions of the codes.
(Ord. of 5-11-2009, § 103.4.2)
Sec. 11-91. - Unsafe buildings or systems.
All buildings, structures, electrical, gas, mechanical or plumbing systems which are unsafe, unsanitary, or do not provide adequate egress, or which constitute a fire hazard, or are otherwise dangerous to human life, or which in relation to existing use, constitute a hazard to safety or health, are considered unsafe buildings or service systems. All such unsafe buildings, structures or service systems are hereby declared illegal and shall be abated by repair and rehabilitation or by demolition in accordance with the provisions of this Code of Ordinances.
(Ord. of 5-11-2009, § 103.5)
Sec. 11-92. - Requirements not covered by codes.
Any requirements necessary for the strength, stability or proper operation of an existing or proposed building, structure, electrical, gas, mechanical or plumbing system, or for the public safety, health and general welfare, not specifically covered by this or the other technical codes, shall be determined by the building official.
(Ord. of 5-11-2009, § 103.6)
Sec. 11-93. - Alternate materials and methods.
The provisions of the technical codes are not intended to prevent the use of any material or method of construction not specifically prescribed by them, provided any such alternate has been reviewed by the building official. The building official shall approve any such alternate, provided the building official finds that the alternate for the purpose intended is at least the equivalent of that prescribed in the technical codes, in quality, strength, effectiveness, fire resistance, durability and safety. The building official shall require that sufficient evidence or proof be submitted to substantiate any claim made regarding the alternate.
(Ord. of 5-11-2009, § 103.7)
Sec. 11-94. - Tests and reports required for compliance.
The building official may require tests, test reports or inspections to be performed by a registered architect or engineer as proof of compliance with any portion of the codes. Required tests and inspections are to be made at the expense of the owner or his agent.
(Ord. of 5-11-2009, § 103.8)
Sec. 11-95. - Used materials and equipment.
Used materials, equipment, and devices shall not be reused unless they have been reconditioned, tested, and placed in good and proper working condition and approved by the building official.
(Ord. of 5-11-2009, § 103.9)
Sec. 11-96. - Modifications.
Whenever there are practical difficulties involved in carrying out the provisions of the codes, the building official shall have the authority to grant modifications for individual cases. The building official shall first find that a special individual reason makes the strict letter of the codes impractical and that in his opinion the modification is in compliance with the intent and purpose of the codes. Such modifications shall be requested in writing by the owner.
(Ord. of 5-11-2009, § 103.10)
Secs. 11-97—11-120. - Reserved.
DIVISION 4. - PERMITS

Sec. 11-121. - Application; when required; exception.
(a)
Required. Any owner, authorized agent, or contractor who desires to construct, enlarge, alter, repair, move, demolish, or change the occupancy of a building or structure, or to erect, install, enlarge, alter, repair, remove, convert or replace any electrical, gas, mechanical or plumbing system, the installation of which is regulated by the technical codes, or to cause any such work to be done, shall first make application to the building official and obtain the required permit for the work.
(b)
Exception. Permits shall not be required for the following:
(1)
Swings and other playground equipment accessory to one- and two-family dwellings.
(2)
Pre-fabricated swimming pools that do not meet the definition of swimming pool as written in the county Code of Ordinances.
(3)
Painting, papering, tiling, carpeting and similar finish work.
(Ord. of 5-11-2009, § 104.1.1)
Sec. 11-122. - Temporary structures.
A special building permit for a limited time shall be obtained before the erection of temporary structures such as construction sheds, seats, canopies, tents and fences used in construction work or for temporary purposes such as reviewing stands. Such structures shall be completely removed upon the expiration of the time limit stated in the permit.
(Ord. of 5-11-2009, § 104.1.2)
Sec. 11-123. - Work authorized.
A building, electrical, gas, mechanical or plumbing permit shall carry with it the right to construct or install the work, provided the same are shown on the drawings and set forth in the specifications filed with the application for the permit. Where these are not shown on the drawings and covered by the specifications submitted with the application, separate permits shall be required.
(Ord. of 5-11-2009, § 104.1.3)
Sec. 11-124. - Minor repairs.
Ordinary minor repairs may be made with the approval of the building official without a permit, provided that such repairs shall not violate any of the provisions of the technical codes.
(Ord. of 5-11-2009, § 104.1.4)
Sec. 11-125. - Information required.
Each application for a permit, with the required fee, shall be filed with the building official on a form furnished for that purpose and shall contain a general description of the proposed work and its location. The application shall be signed by the owner, or his authorized agent. The building permit application shall indicate the proposed occupancy of all parts of the building and of that portion of the site or lot, if any, not covered by the building or structure and shall contain such other information as may be required by the building official.
(Ord. of 5-11-2009, § 104.1.5)
Sec. 11-126. - Application expiration.
An application for a permit for any proposed work shall be deemed to have been abandoned six months after the date of filing for the permit, unless before then a permit has been issued.
(Ord. of 5-11-2009, § 104.1.6)
Sec. 11-127. - Permit expiration.
Every permit issued shall expire unless the work authorized by such permit is commenced within six months after its issuance, or if the work authorized by such permit is suspended or abandoned for a period of six months after the work is commenced, or if the work authorized by such permit is not completed within 12 months after issuance. One or more extensions of time, for periods not more than six months each, may be allowed for the permit. The extension shall be requested in writing and justifiable cause demonstrated.
(Ord. of 5-11-2009, § 104.1.7)
Sec. 11-128. - Permit renewal.
Permits which have expired require a new application and payment of a renewal fee. Fee shall be determined by the building official.
(Ord. of 5-11-2009, § 104.1.8)
Sec. 11-129. - Drawings and specifications; requirements.
The petitioner is required to submit plan sets totaling five plus any additional number of copies that the applicant wants returned to him of specifications, and of drawings drawn to scale with sufficient clarity and detail to indicate the nature and character of the work, to accompany the application for a permit. Such drawings and specifications shall contain information, in the form of notes or otherwise, as to the quality of materials, where quality is essential to conformity with the technical codes. Such information shall be specific, and the technical codes shall not be cited as a whole or in part, nor shall the term "legal" or its equivalent be used as a substitute for specific information. All information, drawings, specifications and accompanying data shall bear the name and signature of the person responsible for the design.
(Ord. of 5-11-2009, § 104.2.1)
Sec. 11-130. - Additional data.
The building official may require details, computations, stress diagrams, and other data necessary to describe the construction or installation and the basis of calculations. All drawings, specifications and accompanying data required by the building official to be prepared by an architect or engineer shall be affixed with their official seal.
(Ord. of 5-11-2009, § 104.2.2)
Sec. 11-131. - Design professional.
(a)
The design professional shall be an architect or engineer legally registered under the laws of this state regulating the practice of architecture or engineering and shall affix his official seal to said drawings, specifications and accompanying data, for the following:
(1)
All group A, E and I occupancies.
(2)
Buildings and structures three stories or more high.
(3)
Buildings and structures 5,000 square feet or more in area.
(4)
Any other structure as required by state law.
(b)
For all other buildings and structures, the submittal shall bear the certification of the applicant that some specific state law exception permits its preparation by a person not so registered.
(Ord. of 5-11-2009, § 104.2.3)
Sec. 11-132. - Structural and fire resistance integrity.
Plans for all buildings shall indicate how required structural and fire resistance integrity will be maintained where a penetration of a required fire resistant wall, floor or partition will be made for electrical, gas, mechanical, plumbing and communication conduits, pipes and systems and also indicate in sufficient detail how the fire integrity will be maintained where required fire resistant floors intersect the exterior walls.
(Ord. of 5-11-2009, § 104.2.4)
Sec. 11-133. - Site drawings.
Drawings shall show the location of the proposed building or structure and of every existing building or structure on the site or lot. The building official may require a boundary line survey prepared by a qualified surveyor.
(Ord. of 5-11-2009, § 104.2.5)
Sec. 11-134. - Hazardous occupancies.
The building official may require the following:
(1)
General site plan. A general site plan drawn at a legible scale which shall include but not be limited to, the location of all buildings, exterior storage facilities, permanent accessways, evacuation routes, parking lots, internal roads, chemical loading areas, equipment cleaning areas, storm and sanitary sewer accesses, emergency equipment and adjacent property uses. The exterior storage areas shall be identified with the hazard classes and the maximum quantities per hazard class of hazardous materials stored.
(2)
Building floor plan. A building floor plan drawn to a legible scale which shall include, but not be limited to, all hazardous materials storage facilities within the building and shall indicate room, doorways, corridors, exits, fire rated assemblies with their hourly rating, location of liquidtight rooms, and evacuation routes. Each hazardous materials storage facility shall be identified on the plan with the hazard classes and quantity range per hazard class of the hazardous materials stored.
(Ord. of 5-11-2009, § 104.2.6)
Sec. 11-135. - Examination of documents—Plan review.
The building official shall examine or cause to be examined each application for a permit and the accompanying documents, consisting of drawings, specifications, computations and additional data, and shall ascertain by such examinations whether the construction indicated and described is in accordance with the requirements of the technical codes and all other pertinent laws or ordinances.
(Ord. of 5-11-2009, § 104.3.1)
Sec. 11-136. - Same—Affidavits.
The building official may accept a sworn affidavit from a registered architect or engineer stating that the plans submitted conform to the technical codes. For buildings and structures, the affidavit shall state that the plans conform to the laws as to egress, type of construction and general arrangement and, if accompanied by drawings, show the structural design and that the plans and design conform to the requirements of the technical codes as to strength, stresses, strains, loads and stability. The building official may without any examination or inspection accept such affidavit, provided the architect or engineer who made such affidavit agrees to submit to the building official copies of inspection reports as inspections are performed and upon completion of the structure, electrical, gas, mechanical, or plumbing systems a certification that the structure, electrical, gas, mechanical, or plumbing system has been erected in accordance with the requirements of the technical codes. Where the building official relies upon such affidavit, the architect or engineer shall assume full responsibility for the compliance with all provisions of the technical codes and other pertinent laws or ordinances.
(Ord. of 5-11-2009, § 104.3.2)
Sec. 11-137. - Action on permits.
The building official shall act upon an application for a permit within five working days from time application is filed with the city. If the building official is satisfied that the work described in an application for a permit and the contract documents filed therewith conform to the requirements of the technical codes and other pertinent laws and ordinances, he shall issue a permit to the applicant.
(Ord. of 5-11-2009, § 104.4.1)
Sec. 11-138. - Refusal to issue permit.
If the application for a permit and the accompanying contract documents describing the work do not conform to the requirements of the technical codes or other pertinent laws or ordinances, the building official shall not issue a permit, but shall return the contract documents to the applicant with his refusal to issue such permit. Such refusal shall, when requested, be in writing and shall contain the reason for refusal.
(Ord. of 5-11-2009, § 104.4.2)
Sec. 11-139. - Special foundation permit.
When application for permit to erect or enlarge a building has been filed and pending issuance of such permit, the building official may, at his discretion, issue a special permit for the foundation only. The holder of such a special permit is proceeding at his own risk and without assurance that a permit for the remainder of the work will be granted nor that corrections will not be required in order to meet provisions of the technical codes.
(Ord. of 5-11-2009, § 104.4.3)
Sec. 11-140. - Contractor's responsibilities.
It shall be the duty of every contractor who shall make contracts for the installation or repairs of building, structure, electrical, gas, mechanical or plumbing systems, for which a permit is required, to comply with state or local rules and regulations concerning licensing which the applicable governing authority may have adopted.
(Ord. of 5-11-2009, § 104.5)
Sec. 11-141. - Permit intent.
A permit issued shall be construed to be a license to proceed with the work and not as authority to violate, cancel, alter, or set aside any of the provisions of the technical codes, nor shall issuance of a permit prevent the building official from thereafter requiring a correction of errors in plans, construction, or violations of this article.
(Ord. of 5-11-2009, § 104.6.1)
Sec. 11-142. - Permit issued on basis of an affidavit.
Whenever a permit is issued in reliance upon an affidavit or whenever the work to be covered by a permit involves installation under conditions which, in the opinion of the building official, are hazardous or complex, the building official shall require that the architect or engineer who signed the affidavit or prepared the drawings or computations shall supervise such work. In addition, they shall be responsible for conformity with the permit, provide copies of inspection reports as inspections are performed, and upon completion make and file with the building official written affidavit that the work has been done in conformity with the reviewed plans and with the structural provisions of the technical codes. In the event such architect or engineer is not available, the owner shall employ in his stead a competent person or agency whose qualifications are reviewed by the building official.
(Ord. of 5-11-2009, § 104.6.2)
Sec. 11-143. - Plans.
When the building official issues a permit, he shall endorse, in writing or by stamp, all sets of plans "Reviewed for Code Compliance." Four sets of drawings so reviewed shall be retained by the building official and the other sets shall be returned to the applicant. The permit drawings shall be kept at the site of work and shall be open to inspection by the building official or his authorized representative.
(Ord. of 5-11-2009, § 104.6.3)
Sec. 11-144. - Prescribed fees.
A permit shall not be issued until the fees as adopted by the mayor and council have been paid. Nor shall an amendment to a permit be released until the additional fee, if any, due to an increase in the estimated cost of the building, structure, electrical, plumbing, mechanical or gas systems, has been paid.
(Ord. of 5-11-2009, § 104.7.1)
Sec. 11-145. - Work commencing before permit issuance.
Any person who commences any work on a building, structure, electrical, gas, mechanical or plumbing system before obtaining the necessary permits shall be subject to the issuance of a citation in addition to the required permit fees.
(Ord. of 5-11-2009, § 104.7.2)
Sec. 11-146. - Accounting.
The building official shall keep a permanent and accurate accounting of all permit fees and other monies collected, the names of all persons upon whose account the same was paid, along with the date and amount thereof.
(Ord. of 5-11-2009, § 104.7.3)
Sec. 11-147. - Schedule of permit fees.
On all buildings, structures, electrical, plumbing, mechanical and gas systems or alterations requiring a permit, a fee for each permit shall be paid as required at the time of filing application, in accordance with the schedule as established by the city and updated from time to time.
(Ord. of 5-11-2009, § 104.7.4)
Sec. 11-148. - Building permit valuations.
If, in the opinion of the building official, the valuation of building, alteration, structure, electrical, gas, mechanical or plumbing systems appears to be underestimated on the application, permit shall be denied, unless the applicant can show detailed estimates to meet the approval of the building official. Permit valuations shall include total cost, such as electrical, gas, mechanical, plumbing equipment and other systems, including materials and labor.
(Ord. of 5-11-2009, § 104.7.5)
Sec. 11-149. - Inspections.
Construction or work for which a permit is required shall be subject to inspection by the building official and such construction or work shall remain accessible and exposed for inspection purposes until approved. Approval as a result of an inspection shall not be construed to be an approval of a violation of the provision of this code or of other ordinances of the jurisdiction. Inspections presuming to give authority to violate or cancel the provisions of this article or of other ordinances of the jurisdiction shall not be valid. It shall be the duty of the permit applicant to cause the work to remain accessible and exposed for inspection purposes. Neither the building official nor the jurisdiction shall be liable for expense entailed in the removal or replacement of any material required to allow inspection.
(Ord. of 5-11-2009, § 105.1)
Sec. 11-150. - Preliminary inspection.
Before issuing a permit, the building official is authorized to examine or cause to be examined buildings, structures and sites for which an application has been filed.
(Ord. of 5-11-2009, § 105.2)
Sec. 11-151. - Manufacturers and fabricators.
When deemed necessary by the building official, he shall make, or cause to be made, an inspection of materials or assemblies at the point of manufacture or fabrication. A record shall be made of every such examination and inspection and of all violations of the technical codes.
(Ord. of 5-11-2009, § 105.3)
Sec. 11-152. - Inspection service.
The building official may make, or cause to be made, the inspections required by section 11-149. He may accept reports of inspectors of recognized inspection services, provided that after investigation he is satisfied as to their qualifications and reliability. A certificate called for by any provision of the technical codes shall not be based on such reports unless the same are in writing and certified by a responsible officer of such service.
(Ord. of 5-11-2009, § 105.4)
Sec. 11-153. - Inspections prior to issuance of certificate of occupancy or completion.
The building official shall inspect or cause to be inspected at various intervals all construction or work for which a permit is required, and a final inspection shall be made of every building, structure, electrical, gas, mechanical or plumbing system upon completion, prior to the issuance of the certificate of occupancy or completion.
(Ord. of 5-11-2009, § 105.5)
Sec. 11-154. - Posting of permit.
Work requiring a permit shall not commence until the permit holder or his agent posts the permit card in a conspicuous place on the premises. The permit shall be protected from the weather and located in such position as to permit the building official or representative to conveniently access such permit. This permit card shall be maintained in such position by the permit holder until the certificate of occupancy or completion is issued by the building official.
(Ord. of 5-11-2009, § 105.6)
Sec. 11-155. - Required inspections.
The building official upon notification from the permit holder or his agent shall make the following inspections and such other inspections as necessary, and shall either release that portion of the construction or shall notify the permit holder or his agent of any violations which must be corrected in order to comply with the technical codes:
(1)
Building.
a.
Foundation inspection. To be made after trenches are excavated and forms erected and any required reinforcing steel is in place.
b.
Concrete slab or under-floor inspection. Concrete slab and under-floor inspections shall be made after in-slab or under-floor reinforcing steel and building service equipment, conduit, piping accessories and other ancillary equipment items are in place, but before any concrete is placed or floor sheathing installed, including the subfloor.
c.
Frame inspection. Framing inspections shall be made after the roof, framing, fire blocking and bracing are in place and pipes, chimneys and vents to be concealed are complete and the rough electrical, plumbing, heating, wires, pipes and ducts are approved.
d.
Final inspection. To be made after the building is completed and ready for occupancy.
(2)
Electrical.
a.
Underground inspection. To be made after trenches or ditches are excavated, conduit or cable installed, and before any backfill is put in place.
b.
Rough-in inspection. To be made after the roof, framing, fireblocking and bracing is in place and prior to the installation of wall or ceiling membranes.
c.
Final inspection. To be made after the building is complete, all required electrical fixtures are in place and properly connected or protected, and the structure is ready for occupancy.
(3)
Plumbing.
a.
Underground inspection. To be made after trenches or ditches are excavated, piping installed, and before any backfill is put in place.
b.
Rough-in inspection. To be male after the roof, framing, fireblocking and bracing is in place and all soil, waste and vent piping is complete, and prior to the installation of wall or ceiling membranes.
c.
Final inspection. To be made after the building is complete, all plumbing fixtures are in place and properly connected, and the structure is ready for occupancy.
(4)
Mechanical.
a.
Underground inspection. To be made after trenches or ditches are excavated, underground duct and fuel piping installed, and before any backfill is put in place.
b.
Rough-in inspection. To be made after the roof, framing, fire blocking and bracing are in place and all ducting, and other concealed components are complete, and prior to the installation of wall or ceiling membranes.
c.
Final inspection. To be made after the building is complete, the mechanical system is in place and properly connected, and the structure is ready for occupancy.
(5)
Gas.
a.
Rough piping inspection. To be made after all new piping authorized by the permit has been installed, and before any such piping has been covered or concealed or any fixtures or gas appliances have been connected. This inspection shall include a pressure test.
b.
Final inspection. To be made on all new gas work authorized by the permit and such portions of existing systems as may be affected by new work or any changes, to ensure compliance with all the requirements of this article and to assure that the installation and construction of the gas system is in accordance with reviewed plans.
(6)
Energy efficiency inspections. Inspection shall be made to determine compliance with the state energy code.
(7)
Other inspections. In addition to the inspections specified in this section, the building official is authorized to make or require other inspections of any construction work to ascertain compliance with the provisions of the codes and other laws which are enforced by the building department.
(Ord. of 5-11-2009, § 105.7)
Sec. 11-156. - Written release.
Work shall not be done on any part of a building, structure, electrical, gas, mechanical or plumbing system beyond the point indicated in each successive inspection without first obtaining a written release from the building official. Such written release shall be given only after an inspection has been made of each successive step in the construction or installation as indicated by each of the foregoing three inspections.
(Ord. of 5-11-2009, § 105.8)
Sec. 11-157. - Reinforcing steel and structural frames.
Reinforcing steel or structural frame work of any part of any building or structure shall not be covered or concealed without first obtaining a release from the building official.
(Ord. of 5-11-2009, § 105.9)
Sec. 11-158. - Plaster fire protection.
In all buildings where plaster is used for fire protection purposes, the permit holder or his agent shall notify the building official after all lathing and backing is in place. Plaster shall not be applied until the release from the building official has been received.
(Ord. of 5-11-2009, § 105.10)
Sec. 11-159. - Inspection requests.
It shall be the duty of the person doing the work authorized by a permit to notify the building official that such work is ready for inspection. It shall be the duty of the person requesting any inspections required by the codes to provide access to and means for inspection of such work.
(Ord. of 5-11-2009, § 105.11)
Secs. 11-160—11-186. - Reserved.
DIVISION 5. - CERTIFICATES

Sec. 11-187. - Certificate of occupancy; required for building occupancy.
A new building shall not be occupied or a change made in the occupancy, nature or use of a building or part of a building until after the building official has issued a certificate of occupancy. Said certificate shall not be issued until all required electrical, gas, mechanical, plumbing and fire protection systems have been inspected for compliance with the technical codes and other applicable laws and ordinances and released by the building official.
(Ord. of 5-11-2009, § 106.1.1)
Sec. 11-188. - Issuing of certificate.
Upon satisfactory completion of construction of a building or structure and installation of electrical, gas, mechanical and plumbing systems in accordance with the technical codes, reviewed plans and specifications, and after the final inspection, the building official shall issue a certificate of occupancy stating the nature of the occupancy permitted.
(Ord. of 5-11-2009, § 106.1.2)
Sec. 11-189. - Temporary/partial occupancy.
A temporary/partial certificate of occupancy may be issued for a portion of a building which may safely be occupied prior to final completion of the building. The building official shall set a time period during which the temporary certificate of occupancy is valid.
(Ord. of 5-11-2009, § 106.1.3)
Sec. 11-190. - Revocation.
The building official shall, in writing, suspend or revoke a certificate of occupancy or completion issued under the provisions of this article wherever the certificate is issued in error, or on the basis of incorrect information supplied, or where it is determined that the building or structure or portion thereof is in violation of any ordinance or regulation or any of the provisions of this article.
(Ord. of 5-11-2009, § 106.1.4)
Sec. 11-191. - Certificate of completion.
Upon satisfactory completion of a building, structure, electrical, gas, mechanical or plumbing system, a certificate of completion may be issued. This certificate is proof that a structure or system is complete and for certain types of permits is released for use and may be connected to a utility system. This certificate does not grant authority to occupy or connect a building, such as a shell building, prior to the issuance of a certificate of occupancy.
(Ord. of 5-11-2009, § 106.2)
Sec. 11-192. - Connection of service utilities.
No person shall make connections from a utility, source of energy, fuel or power to any building or system which is regulated by the technical codes for which a permit is required, until released by the building official and a certificate of occupancy or completion is issued.
(Ord. of 5-11-2009, § 106.3.1)
Sec. 11-193. - Temporary connection.
The building official may authorize the temporary connection of the building or system to the utility source of energy, fuel or power for the purpose of testing building service systems or for use under a temporary certificate of occupancy.
(Ord. of 5-11-2009, § 106.3.2)
Sec. 11-194. - Authority to disconnect service utilities.
The building official shall have the authority to authorize the disconnection of utility service to a building, structure or system in case of emergency where necessary to eliminate an immediate hazard to life or property or when the building, structure or system is in violation of any of the codes or ordinances of the city.
(Ord. of 5-11-2009, § 106.3.3)
Sec. 11-195. - Occupancy.
An existing or new building shall not be occupied for any purpose which will cause the floors thereof to be located beyond their safe capacity. The building official may permit occupancy of a building for mercantile, commercial or industrial purposes, by a specific business, when he is satisfied that such capacity will not thereby be exceeded.
(Ord. of 5-11-2009, § 106.4.1)
Sec. 11-196. - Storage and factory-industrial occupancies.
It shall be the responsibility of the owner, agent, proprietor or occupant of groups S and F occupancies, or any occupancy where excessive floor loading is likely to occur, to employ a competent architect or engineer in computing the safe load capacity. All such computations shall be accompanied by an affidavit from the architect or engineer stating the safe allowable floor load on each floor in pounds per square foot uniformly distributed. The computations and affidavit shall be filed as a permanent record of the building department.
(Ord. of 5-11-2009, § 106.4.2)
Sec. 11-197. - Signs required.
In every building or part of a building used for storage, industrial or hazardous purposes, the safe floor loads, as reviewed by the building official on the plan, shall be marked on plates of approved design which shall be supplied and securely affixed by the owner of the building in a conspicuous place in each story to which they relate. Such plates shall not be removed or defaced, and if lost, removed or defaced, shall be replaced by the owner of the building.
(Ord. of 5-11-2009, § 106.4.3)
Sec. 11-198. - Violations and penalties.
Any person, firm, corporation or agent who shall violate a provision of this article, or fail to comply therewith, or with any of the requirements thereof, or who shall erect, construct, alter, install, demolish or move any structure, electrical, gas, mechanical or plumbing system, or has erected, constructed, altered, repaired, moved or demolished a building, structure, electrical, gas, mechanical or plumbing system, in violation of a detailed statement or drawing submitted and permitted thereunder, shall be guilty of a code violation. Each such offender shall be considered guilty of a separate offense for each and every day or portion thereof during which any violation of any of the provisions of this code is committed or continued, and, upon conviction in the recorder's court of any such violation, such offender shall be punished within the limits of the city Charter or as provided by applicable state laws.
(Ord. of 5-11-2009, § 108)
Secs. 11-199—11-219. - Reserved.
