Chapter 2 - ADMINISTRATION
FOOTNOTE(S):
--- (1) ---
State Law reference— Municipal Home Rule Act, O.C.G.A. § 36-35-1 et seq.; home rule for municipalities, O.C.G.A. § 36-35-3; limitations on home rule for municipalities, O.C.G.A. § 36-35-6; general authority of municipalities, O.C.G.A. §§ 36-34-1 et seq., 36-35-1 et seq.; liability of municipal corporations, O.C.G.A. § 36-33-1 et seq.; limitations on home rule powers, O.C.G.A. § 36-35-6; provisions applicable to counties and municipalities, O.C.G.A. § 36-60-1 et seq.; provisions applicable to counties, municipalities, and other governmental entities, O.C.G.A. § 36-80-2 et seq.; liability of municipal corporations for acts or omissions, O.C.G.A. § 36-33-1 et seq.; municipal acquisition and disposition of real and personal property, O.C.G.A. § 36-37-1 et seq.
ARTICLE I. - IN GENERAL

Secs. 2-1—2-18. - Reserved.
ARTICLE II. - CITY COUNCIL
FOOTNOTE(S):
--- (2) ---
State Law reference— Authority of council to bind subsequent council, O.C.G.A. § 36-30-3; councilmen incompetent to hold other municipal office, O.C.G.A. § 36-30-4; effect of residence in annexed territory as qualification for office, O.C.G.A. § 36-30-5; voting when personally interested, O.C.G.A. § 36-30-6; method of calling election in the event all seats in municipal governing authority are vacant, O.C.G.A. § 36-30-13; initial terms of office of members of governing authority, O.C.G.A. § 36-31-9.
DIVISION 1. - GENERALLY

Sec. 2-19. - General authority of council.
The legislative authority of the city is vested by the city's Charter and general law in the city council, and the council is authorized to exercise those powers by duly established ordinance.
State Law reference— Powers of municipal corporations generally, O.C.G.A. § 36-34-1 et seq.; home rule powers of municipalities, O.C.G.A. § 36-35-1 et seq.
Sec. 2-20. - Members; authority.
The city is governed by the city council, consisting of the mayor and five councilmembers who are vested with all corporate, legislative and other powers of the city as permitted by the city Charter and by law. The council shall be the final judge of the election and qualifications of its members, also of the amount and manner of compensating them for their services, to the extent permitted by the city Charter and state law.
Sec. 2-21. - Election; term; vacancies.
Election of the mayor and councilmembers shall be elected as provided in the city Charter or by general law. Vacancies in office shall be filled as provided in the city Charter or by general law.
State Law reference— Term of municipal offices, O.C.G.A. § 21-2-541.1; general assembly authorized to enact local laws relative to municipal elections, O.C.G.A. § 21-2-541.2; initial terms of office of member of municipal governing authorities, O.C.G.A. § 36-31-9.
Sec. 2-22. - Compensation.
The compensation of the mayor and councilmembers shall be as established by the city council from time to time in accordance with state law.
(Code 1989, § 2-1-1)
State Law reference— Authority to provide compensation and employee benefits to municipal officers and employees, O.C.G.A. § 36-35-4.
Secs. 2-23—2-47. - Reserved.
DIVISION 2. - MEETINGS

FOOTNOTE(S):
--- (3) ---
State Law reference— Open meetings and notice of meetings required, O.C.G.A. § 50-14-1; meetings of governing bodies of counties and municipalities to be open, O.C.G.A. § 36-80-1.
Sec. 2-48. - Regular meetings.
Regular meetings of the city council are held at the city hall or at such other place as may be designated, on the second Monday of each month at 5:00 p.m.
(Code 1989, § 2-1-11)
State Law reference— Requirement to prescribe the time, place and dates of regular meetings of city council; due notice requirement for other than regular meetings, O.C.G.A. § 50-14-1(d); meetings to be open to public, O.C.G.A. § 50-14-1 et seq.; excluded proceedings, O.C.G.A. § 50-14-3; meeting agenda required, O.C.G.A. § 50-14-1.
Sec. 2-49. - Adjourned meetings.
If a quorum shall fail to attend any regular or special meeting of the city council or if for any reason any meeting shall fail to complete transaction of the business before the meeting, the meeting may be adjourned to any date prior to the next regular meeting agreed upon by a majority of the members present.
(Code 1989, § 2-1-12)
Sec. 2-50. - Order of business.
(a)
The order of business at all regular meetings shall be as follows:
(1)
Approval of minutes of last meeting;
(2)
Approval of financial report;
(3)
Corrections, if any, to be made in same;
(4)
Reports of committees;
(5)
Unfinished business;
(6)
Reading by the clerk of any communications; and
(7)
New business.
(b)
If the council directs any matter to be the special business of a future meeting, that matter shall have precedence over all other business at that future meeting.
(c)
No proposition shall be entertained by the council until it has been seconded, and every proposition shall, when required by the mayor or any member, be reduced to writing.
(Code 1989, § 2-1-13)
Sec. 2-51. - Rules of procedure.
Except as otherwise provided by ordinance, the procedures of the city council shall be governed by Robert's Rules of Order, Newly Revised.
(Code 1989, § 2-1-14)
Sec. 2-52. - Previous questions.
The previous questions may be called at any time by a majority of the members present. The ayes and nays may be called for by any member.
(Code 1989, § 2-1-15)
Sec. 2-53. - Motions having precedence.
(a)
When a question is under consideration no motion shall be received except as follows:
(1)
To lay on the table;
(2)
To postpone to a time certain;
(3)
To postpone indefinitely;
(4)
To refer to a committee;
(5)
To amend;
(6)
To strike out or insert; or
(7)
To divide.
(b)
Motions for any of these purposes shall have precedence in the order named.
(Code 1989, § 2-1-16)
Sec. 2-54. - Motion to adjourn.
A motion to adjourn shall always be in order and shall be decided without debate.
(Code 1989, § 2-1-17)
Secs. 2-55—2-81. - Reserved.
ARTICLE III. - OFFICERS AND EMPLOYEES

FOOTNOTE(S):
--- (4) ---
State Law reference— General authority of municipalities, O.C.G.A. §§ 36-34-1 et seq., 36-35-1 et seq.; liability of municipal corporations, O.C.G.A. § 36-33-1 et seq.; limitations on home rule powers, O.C.G.A. § 36-35-6; authority to provide for, regulate, etc., officers and employees, O.C.G.A. § 36-34-2; liability of municipality for acts of officers, O.C.G.A. § 36-33-3; personal liability of municipal officers, O.C.G.A. § 36-33-4; local government officers and employees not subject to liability for torts involving use of government vehicles, O.C.G.A. § 36-92-3; fixing of salaries of municipal employees, O.C.G.A. § 36-35-4; training of members of municipal governing authorities, O.C.G.A. § 36-45-04; local referenda for abolishing local offices or shortening or lengthening term, O.C.G.A. § 1-3-11; authority to provide compensation and employee benefits to municipal officers and employees, O.C.G.A. § 36-35-4.
Sec. 2-82. - Adoption of personnel policies.
(a)
The mayor and council have adopted the City of Reidsville Personnel Policy and Procedure Manual that provides rules, regulations, and policies consistent with the city's Charter concerning the method of employee selection and probationary periods of employment; the administration of a position classification and pay plan, and methods of promotion and transfer within the classification plan; hours of work, vacation, sick leave and other leaves of absence, overtime pay, and rules governing layoffs or similar reductions in force; such dismissal hearings as due process may require; and such other personnel policies, regulations, provisions, or notices as were and may be necessary to provide for the adequate and systematic handling of personnel matters. A copy of the manual is available for inspection in the office of the city clerk.
(b)
The provisions of this article shall be in addition to regulations provided in the adopted personnel manual. In the event of conflict between this chapter and the adopted manual, the more stringent provision shall prevail.
Secs. 2-83—2-107. - Reserved.
ARTICLE IV. - BOARDS, COMMISSIONS, AUTHORITIES AND AGENCIES

Sec. 2-108. - Establishment by council.
The city council shall establish such boards, commissions, and authorities as it deemed necessary or desirable from time to time to fulfill any investigative, quasi-judicial or quasi-legislative function the mayor and council, upon such terms as are provided by the council by ordinance in accordance with the city's Charter.
Sec. 2-109. - Rules, regulations and bylaws.
Unless otherwise provided by the city council, each board, commission, and authority established by the city council may establish such bylaws, rules and regulations, not inconsistent with the city's Charter, this Code, or general law, as it deems appropriate and necessary for the fulfillment of its duties or the conduct of its affairs; provided, however, that copies of such bylaws, rules and regulations shall be filed with the clerk of the city.
Secs. 2-110—2-131. - Reserved.
ARTICLE V. - FINANCE

FOOTNOTE(S):
--- (5) ---
State Law reference— Municipal finance generally, O.C.G.A. § 36-81-1 et seq.; adoption of budget articles and resolutions, O.C.G.A. § 36-81-1 et seq.; political subdivision audits, O.C.G.A. § 36-81-7; accounting for public funds, O.C.G.A. § 45-8-1; limitations on use of purchasing and contract procedures, O.C.G.A. § 34-4-3.1; municipal bonds, O.C.G.A. § 36-38-1; standards for city and city audits, O.C.G.A. § 36-60-8; officer responsible for political subdivision investments, O.C.G.A. § 36-80-4; public works bidding, O.C.G.A. § 26-91-1 et seq.
Sec. 2-132. - Fiscal year.
The fiscal year of the city shall commence on July 1 and end June 30 of each year.
(Code 1989, § 2-5-1)
State Law reference— Fiscal year required to be established by ordinance, O.C.G.A. § 36-81-3.
Sec. 2-133. - Fee schedule; fees established by resolution.
The city maintains a schedule of fees for permits, licenses, and other municipal charges. The amount of fees or charges imposed by the city including, but not limited to, those encompassed in the city's fee schedule, shall be established from time to time by resolution of the city council, as it deems necessary. A copy of the fee schedule is available in the office of the city clerk.
Sec. 2-134. - Identity theft prevention program.
For purposes of compliance with 16 CFR 681.1 et seq., the city has adopted an identity theft prevention (red flag) program, a copy of which is available in the office of the city clerk.
Sec. 2-135. - Annual budget; appropriations.
An annual budget and an appropriations ordinance shall be adopted by the city council prior to the first day of the fiscal year. However, if for good and sufficient reasons the budget cannot be adopted by the first day of the fiscal year, the budget shall be adopted not later than 45 days subsequent to the beginning of the fiscal year. If the budget and the appropriations ordinance are not adopted prior to the beginning of the fiscal year, this section automatically authorizes the continuation of necessary and essential expenditures to operate the city. The budget as adopted shall be a balanced budget with anticipated revenue (including appropriated unencumbered surplus) equal to appropriated expenditures. All funds within the budget shall also be balanced.
(Code 1989, § 2-5-2)
State Law reference— Annual budget generally, O.C.G.A. § 36-81-3 et seq.
Sec. 2-136. - Purchasing.
(a)
Department heads of the city are hereby authorized in their discretion to make purchases of supplies and services when the purchase does not exceed $300.00. All purchases shall be made by purchase orders obtained from the city clerk. The city clerk will review all purchase orders for general appropriateness. The city clerk shall advise the city council of any questionable purchase requests.
(b)
Purchases in an amount exceeding $3,000.00 may be made only after approval by the city council.
(Code 1989, § 2-5-3)
State Law reference— Authorization of purchase by municipal corporations of insurance covering injuries resulting from ownership of motor vehicles, waiver of governmental immunity; limitation of liabilities, O.C.G.A. § 33-24-51; immunity of municipality from liability for damages; waiver of immunity by purchase of liability insurance, O.C.G.A. § 36-33-1; personal liability of councilmembers and other municipal officers, O.C.G.A. § 36-33-4.
Secs. 2-137—2-155. - Reserved.
ARTICLE VI. - ETHICS

FOOTNOTE(S):
--- (6) ---
State Law reference— Ethics in Government Act, O.C.G.A. § 21-5-1 et seq.
Sec. 2-156. - Policy.
The public trust requires public servants to fulfill their duties faithfully and honestly and to subordinate any personal interest which conflicts with the public interest. A public servant is a trustee of the people and should strive to further the general welfare and not use public office in order to improve his own private standing. The principle policies which form the foundation of this article are:
(1)
The trust of citizens in their government is cultivated when individual public servants act with integrity and when the public is aware that its servants act with integrity.
(2)
The constitutions, laws and regulations of the United States and State of Georgia and ordinances of the city should be upheld as a de minimus standard of conduct.
(3)
The most effective way to eradicate unethical practices is to consistently act with the highest moral principles and to consistently react appropriately to the ethical decisions of others.
(4)
Elected officials should exercise sound judgment and apply ethical principles in making decisions that in any manner reflect upon their elected office.
(5)
All citizens should be treated with courtesy, impartiality and equality.
(Ord. of 5-11-2004, § I(div. A))
Sec. 2-157. - Purpose and intent.
It is the intent of this article that the mayor or member of city council shall not knowingly engage in any activity which is incompatible with the proper discharge of his official duties or which would tend to impair his judgment or actions in the performance of his official duties. Furthermore, members of the mayor and council should avoid any action which might result in or create the appearance of using public office for private gain, impeding city efficiency or economy, or affecting adversely the confidence or the public in the integrity of those who conduct the affairs and business of the city.
(Ord. of 5-11-2004, § I(div. B, § I))
Sec. 2-158. - Definitions.
As used in this article, the following terms shall have the following meanings, unless the context clearly indicates that a different meaning is intended:
Benefit means:
(1)
Anything, regardless of its monetary value, perceived or intended by either the one who offers it or the one to whom it is offered; to be sufficient in value to influence a member of the mayor and council in the performance or nonperformance of an official action; or,
(2)
Anything, regardless of its monetary value, which, under the circumstances, a reasonably prudent person would recognize as being likely to be intended to influence a member of the mayor and council in the performance or nonperformance of an official action.
Employee means any person who is employed in a position covered by the position classification plan of the city; any person who is employed part-time by any operating department of the city; and any person who is employed through a contractual agreement with the city.
Government means the city.
Immediate family means spouse, child, parent or sibling of an elected city official.
Interest means any direct or indirect financial gain accruing to a member of the mayor and council as a result of a contract or transaction that is, or may be, the subject of an official act or action by, or with, the city. Interest shall not mean any direct or indirect financial gain which is remote or insignificant.
Mayor and council means any person who is an elected city official, including any person who has been elected but whose term of office has not started.
(Ord. of 5-11-2004, § I(div. B, § II))
Sec. 2-159. - Acceptance of gifts.
The mayor and members of the city council shall not solicit or accept, directly or indirectly, any benefit from any person, corporation or group which has, or is seeking to obtain contractual or other business or financial relationships with the city.
(Ord. of 5-11-2004, § I(div. C, § 1))
Sec. 2-160. - Financial interests.
(a)
The mayor and any member of the city council may not have a direct or indirect financial interest that conflicts with his responsibilities and duties as a trustee of the public good or either directly or indirectly engage in financial transactions as a result of or primarily relying upon information obtained in the course of his office or received due to his position.
(b)
The mayor and any member of the city council shall be deemed to have a financial interest in transactions involving any person in the member's immediate family, any person with whom a contractual relationship exists whereby the member may receive any payment or other benefits, any business in which the member of mayor and council is director, officer, employee, agent, or shareholder.
(Ord. of 5-11-2004, § I(div. C, § II))
Sec. 2-161. - Use of public property.
Neither the mayor nor any member of the city council shall use city property of any kind for other than officially approved activities, nor shall he direct employees to use such property for other than official purposes.
(Ord. of 5-11-2004, § I(div. C, § III))
Sec. 2-162. - Use of confidential information.
Neither the mayor nor any member of the city council shall directly make use of, or permit others to make use of, for the purpose of furthering a private interest, city information not made available to the general public.
(Ord. of 5-11-2004, § I(div. C, § IV))
Sec. 2-163. - Coercion.
(a)
Neither the mayor nor any member of the city council shall use his position in any way to coerce, or give the appearance of coercing, another person to provide any benefits to him or to persons with his family, or for those with whom the member of council has business or financial ties.
(b)
Neither the mayor nor any member of the city council shall use his position in any way to coerce, or give the appearance of coercing, a city employee, an appointed official of the city or a contract employee to provide any benefit to him or to persons with his immediate family.
(c)
Neither the mayor nor any member of the city council shall use his position in any way to coerce, or give the appearance of coercing, a municipal court judge in the outcome of matters before the municipal court.
(Ord. of 5-11-2004, § I(div. C, § V))
Sec. 2-164. - Purchases.
Neither the mayor nor any member of the city council shall order any goods or services for the city or on behalf of the city without prior authorization from the mayor and council or its designee.
(Ord. of 5-11-2004, § I(div. C, § VI))
Sec. 2-165. - Use of city employees.
Neither the mayor nor any member of the city council shall use a city employee for personal or private business during regular business hours or during the employee's scheduled shift. The mayor and any member of the city council shall pay just compensation and shall not receive or expect a discount or special rate.
(Ord. of 5-11-2004, § I(div. C, § VII))
Sec. 2-166. - Travel expenses.
Neither the mayor nor any member of the city council shall draw per diem or expense money from the city to attend the seminar, conference, convention, or similar meeting and then fail to attend the seminar, conference, convention or similar meeting.
(Ord. of 5-11-2004, § I(div. C, § VIII))
Sec. 2-167. - Commitments.
Neither the mayor nor any member of the city council shall act or create the appearance of acting on behalf of the member of council by promising to authorize or prevent any future official action of any nature, without prior authorization from the mayor and council or its designee.
(Ord. of 5-11-2004, § I(div. C, § IX))
Sec. 2-168. - Candidates.
No person who has qualified seeking to become an elected official shall make a false or materially misleading statement or in any manner commit fraud or conceal wrongdoing or withhold information regarding wrongdoing in relation to any city or public business.
(Ord. of 5-11-2004, § I(div. C, § X))
Sec. 2-169. - Disclosure.
The mayor and any member of the city council shall disclose the nature of any interest or benefit he has at the time such matter is presented to the mayor and council for discussion or action. Such disclosure shall be recorded into the minutes of the meeting and become part of the public record. Following any disclosure made pursuant to this article, the member shall not participate in any ex-parte communications with other members regarding the matter at hand.
(Ord. of 5-11-2004, § I(div. D, § I))
Sec. 2-170. - Deliberation and vote prohibited.
No member of the mayor and council shall participate in the discussion, debate, deliberation or vote, or otherwise take part in the decision-making process on any agenda item, any official act or action in which he has a conflict of interest.
(Ord. of 5-11-2004, § I(div. D, § II))
Sec. 2-171. - Duty to leave meeting.
To avoid the appearance of impropriety, after any member of the mayor and council is determined to have a conflict of interest or a potential conflict of interest in any matter, the member of the mayor and council shall leave his regular seat as a member of the council and not return to it until deliberation and action on the matter is completed.
(Ord. of 5-11-2004, § I(div. D, § III))
Sec. 2-172. - Ethics committee.
The mayor and council shall appoint an ethics committee consisting of three persons. At least one member shall be an attorney in good standing with the State Bar of Georgia. All members shall be residents of the city and shall serve a three-year term. Members of the ethics committee must be approved by at least a four-fifths vote of the mayor and council and shall be appointed initially in such manner as to permit one term to terminate each year. The members of the ethics committee shall serve without compensation.
(Ord. of 5-11-2004, § I(div. E, § I))
Sec. 2-173. - Receipt of complaints; referral to ethics committee.
(a)
All complaints against a member of mayor and council shall be filed in writing with the city clerk and referred to the ethics committee in such form as may be prescribed by the ethics committee.
(b)
Upon receipt of a complaint in proper form, the ethics committee shall:
(1)
Review it to determine whether the complaint is unjustified, frivolous, patently unfounded or fails to state facts sufficient to invoke the disciplinary action or is to be considered for further investigation.
(2)
Be empowered to dismiss those complaints which are unjustified, frivolous, patently unfounded or which fail to state facts sufficient to invoke the disciplinary jurisdiction of the member of the mayor and council; provided, however, that a rejection of such complaint by the ethics committee shall not deprive the complaining party of any action he might otherwise have at law or in equity against the respondent government servant.
(3)
Be empowered to collect evidence and information concerning any complaint and to add to the findings and result of its investigations to the file containing such complaint.
(4)
Be empowered to conduct probable cause investigations to take evidence and hold hearings.
(5)
Make recommendations to the mayor and council to invoke disciplinary action. The mayor and council shall take action upon the recommendation of the ethics committee at the next regular meeting of the mayor and council following receipt of the recommendation.
(c)
All actions taken by the ethics committee shall be taken within 30 days of receipt of the complaint. The decision by the ethics committee shall be reduced to writing and served upon all parties at interest within five days of reaching a decision.
(Ord. of 5-11-2004, § I(div. E, § II))
Sec. 2-174. - Right to appeal.
Decisions of the mayor and council pursuant to this article shall be reviewable by the Superior Court of Tattnall County upon notice in writing filed within 30 days of receipt of notice of the decision of the ethics committee. Review by the superior court shall be limited to an inquiry of whether there was any evidence before the mayor and council which supported the decision of the mayor and council. Provided, however no action of the mayor and council refusing or failing to take action pursuant to this article shall be reviewable by the superior court.
(Ord. of 5-11-2004, § I(div. E, § III))
Sec. 2-175. - Penalties.
Any violation of this article is punishable by penalties as provided in section 1-14 and by disciplinary action that may include private or public reprimand, impeachment, or both.
(Ord. of 5-11-2004, § I(div. F, § I))
