Chapter 4 - ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES
FOOTNOTE(S):
--- (1) ---
State Law reference— Georgia Alcoholic Beverage Code, O.C.G.A. § 3-1-1 et seq.; regulation of alcoholic beverages generally, O.C.G.A. § 3-3-1 et seq.; authority of local authorities to license and regulate alcoholic beverage sales, O.C.G.A. § 3-3-2; local regulation of sales on Sundays, O.C.G.A. § 3-3-7; prohibited acts on licensed premises, O.C.G.A. § 3-3-40 et seq.; malt beverages, O.C.G.A. § 3-5-1 et seq.; wine, O.C.G.A. § 3-6-1 et seq.; local licensing requirements for sale of malt beverages, O.C.G.A. § 3-5-40 et seq.; requirements for sale of wine, O.C.G.A. § 3-6-40.
ARTICLE I. - IN GENERAL

Sec. 4-1. - Definitions.
Unless otherwise defined herein, the definitions contained within O.C.G.A. § 3-1-1 et seq., shall be applicable to this chapter. The following words, terms and phrases, when used in this chapter, shall have the meanings ascribed to them in this section, except where the context clearly indicates a different meaning.
Alcohol means ethyl alcohol, hydrated oxide of ethyl, or spirits of wine, from whatever source or by whatever process produced.
Alcoholic beverage means and includes all alcohol, distilled spirits, malt beverage, malt beverage, wine or fortified wine.
Consumption on the premises means the sale of malt beverage or wine directly to the consumer in any establishment holding a license which authorizes the consumption of such beverage upon the premises where such beverage is sold.
Distilled spirits shall be defined pursuant to O.C.G.A. § 3-1-2(7) and includes any alcoholic beverage obtained by distillation or containing more than 21 percent alcohol by volume, including, but not limited to, all liquors and fortified wines.
License means the authorization by the city council to engage in the sale of alcoholic beverages.
Licensee for the sale of alcoholic beverages means any person duly licensed to sell alcoholic beverages.
Malt beverage means any alcoholic beverage obtained by the fermentation of any infusion or decoction of barley, malt, hops, or any similar product, or any combination of such products in water, containing not more than six percent alcohol by volume, and including ale, porter, brown, stout, lager malt beverage, small malt beverage, and strong malt beverage. The term does not include sake, known as Japanese rice wine.
Premises or business premises means the definite closed or partitioned-in locality whether a room, shop or building, for which the sale of alcoholic beverages is licensed,
Private club means a corporation organized and existing under the laws of this state, or a fraternal or veterans' organization, actively in operation within this city at least one year immediately prior to the application for a license hereunder, having at least 25 members regularly contributing monthly, quarterly, semi-annual, or annual dues, organized and operated exclusively for pleasure, recreation, and other nonprofitable purposes, no part of the net earnings of which inures to the benefit of any shareholder or member, and owning, hiring, or leasing a building or space therein for the reasonable use of its members, provided that no member or officer, agent or employee of the club is paid, or directly or indirectly receives, in the form of salary or other compensation, any profits from the sale of alcoholic beverages to the club or its members or guests beyond the amount of such salary as may be fixed by the members at an annual meeting or by its governing board out of the general revenue of the club.
Retail dealer or distributor means any person selling to the general public alcoholic beverages not to be consumed on the premises and not for resale.
Tavern means any place where wine or malt beverages (unless specifically modified) are poured or proposed to be poured.
Tavern manager means any person licensed to sell alcoholic beverages for consumption only on the premises.
Wholesale dealer or distributor means any person engaged in distributing or selling to licensees for the resale of alcoholic beverages.
Wine means any alcoholic beverage containing not more than 21 percent alcohol by volume made from fruits, berries, or grapes, either by natural fermentation or by natural fermentation with brandy added. The term "wine" includes, but is not limited to, all sparkling wines, champagnes, combinations of such beverages, vermouths, special natural wines, rectified wines, and like products.
(Code 1989, § 7-8-1)
State Law reference— Similar definitions, O.C.G.A. § 3-1-1 et seq.
Sec. 4-2. - Consumption upon public ways or public property.
It is unlawful for any person to drink any alcoholic beverages in or upon any public way or public property, or in or upon any public place.
(Code 1989, § 7-8-52)
Secs. 4-3—4-22. - Reserved.
ARTICLE II. - LICENSES
FOOTNOTE(S):
--- (2) ---
State Law reference— Declaration of business of manufacturing, selling and other dealings in alcoholic beverages as privilege subject to regulatory requirements, O.C.G.A. § 3-3-1; powers of local authorities as to granting, refusal, suspension or revocation of licenses generally, O.C.G.A. § 3-3-2; allowing or permitting of breaking of packages or drinking of contents thereof on premises prohibited, exception for sales pursuant to a license for consumption on the premises, O.C.G.A. § 3-3-26.
DIVISION 1. - GENERALLY

Sec. 4-23. - License declared privilege.
Notwithstanding anything in this article to the contrary, the distribution, sale, handling, and other dealing in or possession of alcoholic beverages in the city is a privilege and not a right, and the issuance of a license under this article shall not create any property rights in the license holder. Furthermore, such privilege shall not be exercised in the city except as licensed under the terms of this article.
State Law reference— Similar provision, O.C.G.A. § 3-3-1.
Sec. 4-24. - Compliance with applicable law required.
The requirements of this article shall be in addition to any other requirements for business licenses under this Code and, if other provisions of this Code conflict with this article, then this article shall control. In addition, all licensees shall at all times comply with federal and state laws, municipal ordinances and the rules and regulations of the state revenue commissioner, including licensing qualifications.
Sec. 4-25. - Required.
It is unlawful to operate a place of business for the sale or distribution of alcoholic beverages within the corporate limits of the city without first obtaining a license as required by this article and paying the fee required by the current business license ordinance.
(Code 1989, § 7-8-70)
State Law reference— Dealing in malt beverages at wholesale and retail prohibited without local license, O.C.G.A. § 3-5-40; county licensing fees for the sale of malt beverages, O.C.G.A. § 3-5-41; restriction on county licensing fees for the sale of malt beverages, O.C.G.A. § 3-5-43; dealing in wine at wholesale and retail prohibited without local license, O.C.G.A. § 3-8-40.
Sec. 4-26. - Licenses must be approved by city council.
No license shall be granted under the provisions of this article except by direct action of the city council solicited in the manner provided in this article.
(Code 1989, § 7-8-71)
Sec. 4-27. - Classes of licenses; separate license per class required.
The city issues under this article Class I—Malt Beverage and Wine—Package Retail, Class II—Malt Beverage and Wine—Consumption on Premises, Class III—Distilled Spirits—Package Retail. A separate license is required for each separate class of business operation.
(Code 1989, § 7-8-61)
Sec. 4-28. - Separate license for each place of business required.
A separate license for each place of business and a separate application under this article shall be made for each.
(Code 1989, § 7-8-23)
Sec. 4-29. - Only one city license may be issued per person.
Only one license required by this article shall be issued to any one person in the city and no person (defined to include individuals, all partners of any partnership and all directors, shareholders and officers of any corporation and any person related to such defined persons within the first degree) who has a beneficial interest in two or more alcoholic beverage licenses in any other municipality or county in this state shall be eligible to receive a license under this article.
(Code 1989, § 7-8-25(b))
Sec. 4-30. - Application content.
Application for a license under this article shall be made on forms furnished by the city clerk and shall contain a minimum of the following statements, information and supporting documentation:
(1)
The name and address of the applicant in the case of an individual; in the case of a co-partnership, the persons entitled to share in the profits thereof; in the case of a corporation, the names and addressees of the officers and directors and, if 25 percent or more interest of the stock of such corporation is owned by one person or his nominee, the name and address of such person.
(2)
The type of business of the applicant, and in the case of a corporation, the objects for which it was formed.
(3)
The length of time the applicant has been in business of that type or, in the case of a corporation, the date when its charter was issued.
(4)
The location and description of the premises or place of business which is to be operated under such license.
(5)
A statement whether applicant has made application for a similar or other license on premises other than described in this application and the disposition of such application.
(6)
A statement that applicant is not disqualified to receive a license by reason of any matter or thing contained in this article, laws of this state, or the ordinances of this city.
(7)
Whether a previous license by any state or subdivision thereof, or by the federal government has been revoked, and the reasons therefor.
(8)
A statement that the applicant will not violate any state or federal law or any ordinances of the city in the conduct of its place of business.
(9)
Financial statements and other financial information sufficient to show, to the satisfaction of the city council, financial responsibility.
(10)
A copy of the applicant's application for a state alcoholic beverage license; and
(11)
Such other information as may be required by the city clerk or the city council.
(Code 1989, §§ 7-8-24, 7-8-76)
Sec. 4-31. - Qualifications for licensure.
(a)
No license may be issued under this article to:
(1)
A person who is not a citizen of the United States.
(2)
An employee, agent or elected official of the city.
(3)
A person who has been convicted of an offense identified in section 4-32 as a disqualifying offense.
(4)
A person whose license under this article has been revoked for cause.
(5)
A co-partnership, unless all members of such co-partnership shall be qualified to obtain a license.
(6)
A person whose place of business is conducted by a manager or agent, unless the manager or agent possesses the same qualifications required of an individual licensee.
(7)
A person who does not own the premises for which a license is sought or does not have a lease thereon for the full period for which the license is issued.
(8)
Any person, unless such person, all partners of any partnership and all shareholders, directors and officers of any corporation are at least 21 years of age and have been residents of the city for a minimum of one year prior to filing the application for the license.
(b)
In determining whether to issue a license, an applicant's conviction of a violation of any federal or state law or city ordinance concerning the manufacture or sale of alcoholic beverages or forfeiture of a bond to appear in court to answer charges for any such violation shall be considered and may be grounds for denial of a license.
(Code 1989, §§ 7-8-25(a), 7-8-26, 7-8-77)
Sec. 4-32. - Disqualifying criminal convictions.
(a)
Applicants. No license shall be granted under this article to an applicant who has been convicted of, pled nolo contendere to, at the time the application is made or while the application is pending is charged under any federal, state or local law for a criminal offense involving moral turpitude, or who has been convicted of, pled nolo contendere to or at the time the application is made or while the application is pending is charged under any federal, state or local law of any criminal offense involving alcoholic beverages, gambling or tax law violations, if such tends to indicate that the applicant should not maintain the operation for which he is seeking a license in conformity with federal and state laws and the ordinances of the city.
(b)
Employees of applicants. No license shall be granted under this article to any applicant who proposes to employ in the retail distilled spirits business, or who retains in such employment, any person who has been convicted of any offense referred to this section.
(c)
Exception; discretion of council. Notwithstanding any other provision of this section, the city council may at its discretion issue a license to persons with felony convictions more than five years before the application of license is made.
(Code 1989, §§ 7-8-27, 7-8-77(a)(2))
Sec. 4-33. - False information.
The making of any statement on an application for license to sell alcoholic beverages that shall be later found to be false shall constitute grounds for revocation of the license.
(Code 1989, § 7-8-78)
Sec. 4-34. - Factors considered in determining grant or denial of license.
(a)
In review of an application for license under this article, the city council, in its discretion, may consider any extenuating circumstances that reflect favorably or unfavorably on the applicant or the proposed business location. If in their judgment, circumstances are such that the granting of the license would not be in the best interest of the general public, such circumstances may be grounds for denying the application.
(b)
Without limiting the generality of subsection (a) of this section, the city council shall be guided by the following factors as to whether or not to grant such license:
(1)
The nature of the neighborhood immediately adjacent to the proposed location, that is, whether the same is predominantly residential, industrial or business.
(2)
The proximity of churches, hospitals, schools, college campuses, public parks and play grounds and private residences.
(3)
Whether the proposed location has adequate off-street parking facilities or other parking available for its patrons.
(4)
Whether the location would tend to increase and promote traffic congestion and resulting hazards therefrom.
(5)
The criminal records of the applicant and the outlet manager and general good character and reputation and their financial responsibility; provided that nonpayment of federal, state, county or city taxes shall be a prima facie evidence of lack of financial responsibility.
(6)
Evidence presented to the city council for or against the application.
(7)
Whether or not the granting of the application is in the interest of the body corporate known as the City of Reidsville.
(8)
Whether any license for sale of malt beverage or wine or alcohol previously issued for the location has been revoked for cause by the commission.
(9)
Whether the applicant holds or possesses any other license for the sale of alcohol issued by the city.
(10)
The history or reputation of the building or establishment (proposed for outlet) for prostitution or other sex offenses, fighting, shooting, stabbing or other violence, gambling, illegal dealing in the alcoholic beverages or drugs, or other violations of the law.
(Code 1989, §§ 7-8-31, 7-8-79)
Sec. 4-35. - Fees.
The annual fee for licenses issued pursuant to this article shall be in the amount provided in the city fee schedule, which shall be paid with, and at the same time as filing, the application for the license. The fee shall be paid in cash or by a bank certified check made payable to the city. If the application is not approved and no license is granted, the fee shall be refunded.
(Code 1989, § 7-8-30)
Sec. 4-36. - Term; renewal.
All licenses purchased under this article for on-going businesses shall be purchased on or before January 1 of each year. New businesses may purchase licenses after January 1. A license granted under this article shall be valid only for the calendar year indicated thereon and no such license may be renewed. A licensee who desires to continue in business during the next calendar year must make a new application for such year as set out in this division.
(Code 1989, § 7-8-32)
Sec. 4-37. - Display.
Licenses issued under this article shall be displayed permanently at all times on the premises for which the same are issued.
(Code 1989, § 7-8-33)
Sec. 4-38. - Not transferable; surrender if business sold or closed.
No license issued under this article shall be transferable or assignable to any person or to any other location. In the event that a licensed business is sold or closed, it shall be the duty of the licensee to immediately surrender his license to the city clerk. There shall be no refund of the license fees upon such surrender.
(Code 1989, § 7-8-34)
Sec. 4-39. - Additional requirements for distilled spirits licenses.
(a)
Location restrictions. No retail distilled spirits license shall be granted under this division to any person, unless the entire business premises of the proposed location is situated in a commercial area, and beyond 100 yards from the property line of any church, and beyond 200 yards from the property line of any school grounds, college campus or public park, the same to be measured by way of the nearest traveled road, street or highway, as provided by law.
(b)
Hours of sale. No distilled spirits retailer shall be in his place of business, open his place of business or furnish, sell or offer for sale any distilled spirits at any time on Christmas Day or on Sundays, on any other day before 8:00 a.m. or after 11:45 p.m., or at any time in violation of state law or special order of the city council.
(c)
Limitation on dealing in products other than distilled spirits. No retailer shall sell, offer for sale, display or keep in stock, at his place of business where distilled spirits are offered for sale, any other product or commodity except wine when properly licensed, malt beverages or beer when properly licensed, beverages containing no alcohol commonly used to dilute distilled spirits, tobacco products and packaged ice.
(d)
Sale of distilled spirits to be in original unbroken package; minimum size of package. Retail dealers shall sell or offer to sell distilled spirits in the original unbroken package only and shall sell no package containing less than 200 milliliters.
(e)
Sales and deliveries from licensed premises only; exception for drive-in windows. No retailer shall sell or deliver any distilled spirits to any person except in such retailer's place of business, with the exception of a drive-in window for sale to persons in automobiles.
(f)
Consumption or opening containers on premises prohibited. It is unlawful for any person to consume any alcoholic beverage or to open any container of alcoholic beverage on the licensed premises of a retail distilled spirits dealer or in the parking area of such premises.
(g)
Building and traffic regulations application; inspection. The building or proposed building to house a retail outlet shall meet all requirements of the city building inspector and traffic engineer. The proposed building shall also be subject to final inspection and approval, when completed, by the city engineer.
(h)
Obstruction of view from street prohibited. No screen, partition or security fence which prevents a clear view into the interior of a retail outlet from the street, nor any booth within, shall be permitted.
(i)
Lighting requirements. Each building in which the business of an applicant for a licensee under this division will be located shall contain sufficient lighting, so that the building itself and the premises on all sides of the building are readily visible at all times so as to reveal the inside retail area of the building and so as to reveal all of the outside premises of the building.
(j)
Premises to be owned or leased by applicant. Each applicant for a retail distilled spirits dealer's license shall attach to his application evidence of ownership of the building or proposed building in which his business is to be conducted or a copy of the lease, if the applicant is leasing the building.
(Code 1989, §§ 7-8-17—7-8-21, 7-8-28, 7-8-29, 7-8-36)
Sec. 4-40. - Additional requirements for malt beverage and wine licenses.
(a)
Location restrictions. No license to sell wine or malt beverages shall be granted, if the proposed location is within 300 feet of a church or a school or college building in which the subjects commonly taught in the public schools of the state are taught. In determining compliance within this section, the distance shall be determined by measuring along the curve or outer edge of the sidewalk from the entrance of the selling establishment to the nearest entrance of a church, school or college building.
(b)
Separation of stock and locking when sale prohibited. All holders of a license for the sale of wine and malt beverages shall separate the stock of the beverages from nonalcoholic merchandise, so that such stock may be closed off and locked at all times when its sale is prohibited, and the same shall be closed off and locked at such time.
(c)
Hours of sale and occupancy restricted.
(1)
No wine or malt beverages shall be sold or offered for sale in the city between the hours of 12:00 midnight on Saturday and 5:00 a.m. on the following Monday, nor between the hours of 1:00 a.m. and 5:00 a.m. on the other days of the week.
(2)
No wine or malt beverages shall be sold or offered for sale in the city on Sundays, Christmas Day, or any other day on which the sale of same shall be prohibited by order of the city council; provided, however, that the sale of alcoholic beverages within the corporate limits of the city on any election days shall be permitted and not be unlawful.
(3)
No later than 12:30 a.m. on Sunday and no later than 30 minutes after the time set out in this section for ceasing the sale of wine and malt beverages on the other days of the week, all patrons and customers of any establishment holding a license permitting consumption on the premises shall vacate the premises and the doors to such establishment shall be closed and locked.
(Code 1989, §§ 7-8-53, 7-8-54, 7-8-56)
Sec. 4-41. - Additional requirements for on-premises consumption licenses.
(a)
Location restrictions. No consumption on the premises license shall be granted under the provisions of this article:
(1)
For a location not suitable in the judgment and discretion of the city council because of traffic congestion, general character of the neighborhood, or by reason of the effect which such an establishment would have on the adjacent and surrounding properties, or on the neighborhood.
(2)
For a location within an area where, in the judgment of the council, the number of alcoholic beverage licenses already granted makes it contrary to the public interest and welfare.
(3)
For a location at which the operation of the proposed business would be in violation of the zoning ordinance of the city.
(4)
For a location at which a previous alcoholic beverage license has been revoked or suspended, and where, in the judgment of the council, the problems which have arisen from the operation of an alcoholic beverage license at such location indicated that it is not in the interest of public health, safety, welfare or morals that the sale of alcoholic beverages be permitted at such location.
(b)
Premises approval required. No consumption on the premises license shall be issued unless the building in which the premises will be located is complete and detailed plans of the buildings are attached to the application, or unless proposed plans and specifications and a building permit of a proposed building to be built are attached to the application. The completed building or the proposed building shall comply with the ordinances of the city and state law and rules.
(c)
Final premises inspection and approval required. The proposed building shall be subject to final inspection and approval, when completed by the code enforcement inspector.
(d)
Minimum lighting requirements. Each building in which the business will be located shall provide sufficient lighting so that the building itself and all sides of the building are readily visible at all times so as to reveal all of the outside of the building.
(e)
Minimum sanitary toilet facilities requirements. All premises within the building, for which consumption on the premises license shall be issued shall afford therein adequate sanitary toilet facilities and shall be adequately illuminated so that all hallways, passageways and open areas may be clearly seen by customers therein.
(Code 1989, §§ 7-8-91, 7-8-95)
Secs. 4-42—4-70. - Reserved.
DIVISION 2. - SUSPENSION AND REVOCATION

Sec. 4-71. - Grounds; forfeiture of licenses fees; other penalties.
(a)
Any license issued under this article shall be subject to immediate revocation upon it being made to appear that the holder fails to comply with the laws and regulations of the state or the laws and regulations of the city, governing the sale and control of alcoholic beverages.
(b)
In addition, and without excluding any other ground for revocation of a class II license, it shall be cause for revocation of such license if the licensee, after written warning from the chief of police to desist, permits the presence of persons under the age of 21 on the business premises of the licensee during business hours.
(c)
Any license granted under this article is subject to the immediate revocation upon it being made to appear to the city council that the holder of the license is operating a business in a disorderly manner thus becoming a nuisance.
(d)
Upon any license being revoked for any reason, the holder thereof shall forfeit the full amount paid therefor.
(e)
The violation of any provisions of this article shall, in addition, to subjecting the license to immediate revocation, be considered an offense against the city, punishable as provided in section 1-14.
(Code 1989, §§ 7-8-35, 7-8-65)
Sec. 4-72. - Procedure.
(a)
No license which has been issued by the city under this article shall be revoked or suspended except for due cause.
(b)
Upon information provided to the city council concerning any licensee violating any of the provisions outlined in this article the licensee shall be given notice in writing to show cause before the city council at a time and place specified therein no less than three days nor more than 14 days from the service of the notice why the license should not be revoked, stating the grounds therefor.
(c)
At the appointed time and place, the licensee shall have an opportunity to show cause why the license should not be revoked, after which the city council shall take such action as it, in its judgment, shall deem warranted under the fact.
(Code 1989, § 7-8-66)
Secs. 4-73—4-102. - Reserved.
ARTICLE III. - EXCISE TAXES

FOOTNOTE(S):
--- (3) ---
State Law reference— Local excise taxes on malt beverages, O.C.G.A. § 3-5-80; excise taxes on malt beverages to be paid by wholesale dealer, O.C.G.A. § 3-5-81; prohibition on requirement for markings on beverage containers regarding excise taxes, O.C.G.A. § 35-5-82; local excise taxes on wine, O.C.G.A. § 3-8-60.
Sec. 4-103. - Levy.
(a)
Distilled spirits and wine. There is hereby levied an excise tax, computed at the rate of $0.22 per liter, on all distilled spirits and wine sold, displayed or stored in the city. Such tax shall be prorated on fractional liter sizes, so that each bottle or each individual size container shall be taxed on the basis of $0.22 per liter.
(b)
Malt beverages. There is hereby imposed on the sale of malt beverages in the city an excise tax in the sum of $0.05 per 12 ounces and in similar proportions for bottles, cans, and containers of various sizes. The excise tax on draft beer shall be in the sum of $6.00 for each container containing not more than 15½ gallons and at a like rate for fractional parts, where the beverage is sold in or from a barrel or bulk container, such beverage being commonly known as tap or draft beer.
Sec. 4-104. - Unlawful to distribute alcoholic beverages upon tax is unpaid.
It is unlawful for any wholesale dealer to sell, ship, or deliver, in any manner, any distilled spirits, malt beverage or wine to a retail malt beverage or wine dealer without having collected the tax levied by this division. It shall likewise be unlawful for any retail malt beverage or wine dealer to possess, own, hold, store, display or sell any malt beverage or wine on which such tax has not been paid.
Sec. 4-105. - Collection by wholesaler; due date; interest.
Excise taxes levied under this article are levied against and shall be paid by each licensed wholesale dealer in the city. Each wholesale dealer selling, shipping or in any way delivering distilled spirits, malt beverages or wine to any retailer in the city shall collect the tax levied by this division at the time of delivery and shall remit the same, together with a summary of all deliveries to each retailers, to the city on or before the 20th day of the month following. Interest shall accrue on late payments at the rate of one percent per month.
Sec. 4-106. - Wholesale performance bond required.
Wholesalers shall post a performance bond with the city clerk of mayor equal to 1½ times the estimated highest monthly payment made in a calendar year of the excise tax based on sales collected by wholesalers from the retailers to secure the payment for the tax imposed therein. The bond provided for in this section shall be secured by cash which shall bear no interest, or a surety bond executed by a surety company licensed to do business in this state and approved by the city clerk or mayor.
Sec. 4-107. - Wholesaler's collection allowance.
Each wholesale dealer shall be paid three percent of the amount of taxes collected under this division as reimbursement for collection of such taxes.
Sec. 4-108. - Records to be maintained; audits.
The wholesale dealers shall keep true and correct records of all sales and shipments, and shall render a sworn statement of the same accompanying the monthly report to the city clerk. Each wholesale dealer licensed to do business in the city shall submit his books and records for such audit thereof as may be requested by the mayor or city clerk at any reasonable time during business hours.
Sec. 4-109. - Penalties.
(a)
Failure to timely report and pay taxes. The failure to make a timely report and remittance shall render a wholesale malt beverage or wine dealer liable for a penalty equal to 20 percent of the total amount due during the first 30-day period following the date such report and remittance were due and a further penalty of 20 percent of the amount of such remittance for each successive 30-day period or any portion thereof during which such report and remittance are not made.
(b)
Filing false or fraudulent report. The filing of a false or fraudulent report shall render the wholesale dealer making a report liable for a penalty equal to 100 percent of the amount of the remittance which would be required under an accurate and truthful report.
Secs. 4-110—4-131. - Reserved.
ARTICLE IV. - OPERATION REQUIREMENTS AND RESTRICTIONS

Sec. 4-132. - Furnishing alcohol to underage persons prohibited.
It is unlawful for any licensee, knowingly, by himself or through another, to furnish or cause to be furnished, or permit any other person in his employ to furnish any person under the legal age, as set by state law, any alcoholic beverages.
(Code 1989, § 7-8-50)
Sec. 4-133. - Sales to person obviously intoxicated prohibited.
No licensee under this article shall give, sell, or offer to sell any alcoholic beverage to any person who is noticeably intoxicated, or who is a habitual drunkard whose intemperate habits are known to the licensee.
(Code 1989, § 7-8-51)
Sec. 4-134. - Compliance with state and federal law required.
Each dealer licensed under this article and doing business in the city shall comply with all laws of the state, federal laws and rules and regulations of the state revenue commissioner relating to the sale and distribution of distilled spirits in the state.
(Code 1989, § 7-8-13)
Sec. 4-135. - Copy of article to be on premises and provided to employees.
All holders of a license under this article shall keep a copy of this article on the premises and shall instruct any person working on such premises with respect to the terms of this article and each such licensee or his agent selling distilled spirits shall, at all times, be familiar with the terms of this article. By accepting the issuance of a license under this article, the licensee shall be presumed to have received a full copy of this article or the ordinance from which it is derived, to have read the same and to be familiar with all of its terms and provisions.
(Code 1989, § 7-8-11)
Sec. 4-136. - Responsibility for violations by employees.
Each licensed dealer shall be held responsible for any acts of his employment in any violation of this article or of the laws of the state or the rules and regulations of the state revenue commissioner.
(Code 1989, § 7-8-15)
Sec. 4-137. - Sanitary conditions.
All premises for the sale of alcoholic beverages, or for the storage of alcoholic beverages, or for the storage of alcoholic beverages for sale, shall be kept in full compliance with the ordinances regulating the condition of premises used for the storage or sale of food for human consumption.
(Code 1989, § 7-8-55)
Sec. 4-138. - Inspection of premises.
The business premises of the holder of a retail license under this article shall be open to inspection, at any and all reasonable times, by officers authorized to conduct such inspections.
(Code 1989, § 7-8-12)
Sec. 4-139. - Sales and deliveries made on licensed premises only.
No licensee shall sell or deliver any alcoholic beverage to any person except in the licensee's place of business.
(Code 1989, § 7-8-57)
Sec. 4-140. - Employment of minors.
No person under 18 years of age shall be employed in any capacity in any place of business licensed under this article.
(Code 1989, § 7-8-14)
Sec. 4-141. - Sign as to sales to underage persons.
Every retail dealer shall post, in the most conspicuous place in his establishment, a sign printed in letters at least four inches high and reading as follows: "Sale of Alcoholic Beverages to Persons Under 21 Strictly Prohibited."
(Code 1989, § 7-8-16)
