Chapter 6 - ANIMALS
FOOTNOTE(S):
--- (1) ---
State Law reference— Licensing and registration of animals by local authorities, O.C.G.A. § 31-19-3; livestock running at large, O.C.G.A. § 4-3-1 et seq.; permitting dogs in heat to roam or run free, O.C.G.A. § 4-8-6; disposal of diseased, disabled, or dead animals, O.C.G.A. § 4-5-1 et seq.; dogs generally, O.C.G.A. § 4-8-1; dangerous dog control, O.C.G.A. § 4-8-20 et seq.; vicious dogs, O.C.G.A. § 4-8-40 et seq.; animal protection, O.C.G.A. § 4-11-1 et seq.; cruelty to animals, O.C.G.A. § 16-12-4; cruelty to dogs; authorized killing of dogs, O.C.G.A. § 4-8-5; rabies control, O.C.G.A. § 31-19-1; liability of owner or keeper of vicious or dangerous animal for injuries caused by animal, O.C.G.A. § 51-2-6.
ARTICLE I. - IN GENERAL

Sec. 6-1. - Definitions.
The following words, terms and phrases, when used in this chapter, shall have the meanings ascribed to them in this section, except where the context clearly indicates a different meaning.
Abandoned animal means an animal that is owned or stray, unattended, and uncared for and additionally:
(1)
Has been placed or is found on public property or within a public building; or
(2)
Has been placed or is found on private property or within a private building without the consent of the private property owner, custodian, or tenant; or
(3)
Is on or within the property of the animal's owner or custodian and has remained unattended or uncared for in excess of 36 hours.
Adequate food and water means wholesome food and water that is sufficient in quality and quantity and consisting of essential materials for good health, growth, and general life functions, and is appropriate for the particular type of animal consistent with the normal requirements and feeding habits of the animal's size, age, species, breed, and physical condition. This shall also include clean water in sufficient quantity and quality to sustain vital functions of the animal and provide sufficient hydration consistent with the normal requirements and drinking habits of the animal's size, age, species, and breed, and to which the animal has constant access. Both food and water must be in containers designed and situated to allow the animal easy access to them. The term "adequate food and water" also means food and water that is sufficient in quality, quantity, and accessibility so as to prevent starvation, dehydration, or a significant risk to the animal's health from a lack of proper quantity and quality of food or water.
Adequate shelter means a pen, structure, lean-to, animal house, or other provision to provide shelter to the animal from the extreme cold, heat, sun, or other climatic elements, and designed to keep the animal off the ground. It must be of sufficient size, design, and dimensions to allow the animal reasonable ability to stand up and turn around, to permit sufficient ventilation, and which is otherwise adequate given the animal's size, age, species, breed, and physical condition. Such shelter must at a minimum have three sides, a roof, and a floor.
Animal means any live creature, both domestic and wild, except humans. The term "animal" also includes birds, fish, and reptiles.
Animal enforcement agent means an employee of the animal control unit and any other law enforcement officers or other official of the city or county authorized by the city council to enforce the provisions of this chapter.
Animal nuisance means any nuisance arising out of the keeping, maintaining, owning of, or failure to exercise sufficient control over, an animal.
At heel means that a dog is directly behind or next to a person and obedient to that person's command under all circumstances.
At large means that an animal is off the premises of its owner or custodian and not on a leash or otherwise under the immediate control of a person physically capable of restraining the animal. With regard to dogs and cats, "at large" means any public nuisance dog or cat or any dog or cat causing a disturbance while not on a leash or in the vicinity of the owner and obedient to that person's commands. A dog or cat is not running at large when he is confined within the limits of his owner's property.
Cat means any member of the animal species felis catus or felis domesticus.
Certificate of registration means a current valid certificate of registration for the possession of a dangerous dog or a potentially dangerous dog issued pursuant to this chapter.
Cruelty means any act of commission or omission whereby unjustifiable physical or mental pain or suffering, abuse, overwork, maiming, disfigurement, or death of an animal is caused or permitted, including, without limitation, failure to provide nutritious and adequate food, clean and adequate water, clean and adequate air for breathing, proper and adequate ventilation, proper and adequate space, shelter, and protection from the elements, a sanitary and safe living environment, or necessary veterinary care. In the case of bona fide activities where physical pain is necessarily caused, such as medical and scientific research, food processing, customary and normal veterinary and agricultural husbandry practices, pest elimination, and animal training and hunting, the term "cruelty" shall mean a failure to employ the most humane method reasonably available.
Dangerous dog means any dog that, according to records of an appropriate authority, inflicts severe injury on human beings without provocation on public or private property or aggressively bites, attacks, or endangers the safety of human beings without provocation after the dog has been classified as a potentially dangerous dog and after the owner has been notified of such classification.
Disposition means adoption, quarantine, voluntary or involuntary custodianship or placement, or euthanasia humanely administered to an animal in accordance with O.C.G.A. § 4-11-5.1. The term "disposition" also includes placement or sale of an animal to the general public.
Dog means any member of the animal species canis familiaris.
Guard or attack dog means a dog trained to attack on command or to protect persons or property, and who will cease to attack upon command.
Hopelessly disabled animal means any animal which is the subject of any disease, injury, or condition which is a cause of immediate and significant suffering by the animal and from which there is no reasonable probability of recovery.
Humane care means, but is not limited to, the provision of adequate heat, ventilation, sanitary shelter, and wholesome and adequate food and water, in each case consistent with the normal requirements and feeding habits of the animal's size, age, species, breed, and physical condition.
Hunting dog means any dog that is a member of a breed of dog recognized by the state department of natural resources as a hunting dog and is actively used by its owner for hunting purposes.
Hunting season means the seasons of the year designated and recognized by the state department of natural resources as being a hunting season.
Impound or impoundment means the taking into custody of an animal by any law enforcement official, or any authorized representative thereof.
Law enforcement officer means any law enforcement officer empowered to make arrest in this city.
Owner means any natural person or any legal entity, including, but not limited to, a corporation, partnership, firm or trust owning, possessing, harboring, keeping or having custody or control of a dog or cat within the incorporated area of the city.
Potentially dangerous dog means any dog that, without provocation, bites a human being on public or private property or acts in a threatening or aggressive manner towards a person that places said person in reasonable apprehension of immediately receiving a violent injury.
Proper enclosure and proper secure enclosure means an enclosure for keeping a dangerous dog or potentially dangerous dog, while on the owner's property, securely confined indoors or in a securely enclosed and locked pen, fence, or structure suitable to prevent the entry of young children and designed to prevent the dog from escaping. Any such pen or structure shall have secure sides and a secure top, and if the dog is enclosed within a fence, all sides of the fence shall be of sufficient height and the bottom of the fence shall be constructed or secured in such a manner as to prevent the dog's escape either from, over, through, or from under the fence. Any such enclosure shall also provide protection from the elements and sufficient ventilation for the dog.
Public nuisance animal means any animal that unreasonably annoys humans, endangers the life or health of persons or other animals, or substantially interferes with the rights of citizens, other than their owners, to enjoyment of life or property. The term "public nuisance animal" shall include but not be limited to:
(1)
Any animal that is repeatedly found running or roaming at large.
(2)
Any dog or cat in any section of a park or public recreation area, unless the dog or cat is under restraint by way of a leash or similar physical restraint; however, this provision shall not apply to any park or recreation facility specifically designed or provided for the purpose of a dog or animal park, whether such designation is temporary or permanent. Public nuisance dogs and cats include dogs and cats that have damaged property of anyone other than the owner thereof in the amount of $10.00 or more or any dog or cat causing unsanitary conditions in any enclosure or surroundings.
(3)
Any animal that repeatedly damages or destroys any property other than that of its owner.
(4)
Any animal that repeatedly soils, defiles, or defecates on any property other than that of its owner.
(5)
Any animal that repeatedly makes disturbing noises, including, but not limited to, continued and repeated howling, barking, whining, or other utterances causing unreasonable annoyance, disturbance, or discomfort to neighbors or others in close proximity to the premises where the animal is kept or harbored.
(6)
Any animal that causes or is left in unsanitary or unhealthy conditions created by an accumulation of excreta, or that causes fouling of the air by noxious or offensive odors due to unsanitary or unhealthy conditions and thereby creates unreasonable annoyance or discomfort to neighbors or others in close proximity to the premises where the animal is kept or harbored.
(7)
Any animal in heat that is not confined so as to prevent attraction or contact with other animals of the same species or breed.
(8)
Any animal, whether or not on the property of its owner, that:
a.
Without provocation, molests, attacks, threatens, or otherwise interferes with the freedom of movement of persons in a public right-of-way;
b.
Creates a traffic obstruction by their presence in the public right-of-way for vehicular traffic, bicyclists, or pedestrians.
(9)
Any animal that, without provocation, attacks or threatens domestic animals.
(10)
Any animal that is a danger to the public health, safety, or welfare by virtue of the number of animals maintained at a single location or the inadequacy of the facilities for such animals.
Rabies control tag means a valid tag evidencing the currently in effect annual inoculation against rabies of a dog, cat, or ferret, as the case may be, by a licensed veterinarian or other rabies inoculator approved under state law, rules and regulations.
Responsible person means a competent person of at least 18 years of age.
Sanitary means a condition of good order and cleanliness to minimize the possibility of disease creation or transmission and of unhealthy conditions.
Severe injury means any physical injury that results in broken bones or disfiguring lacerations requiring multiple sutures or cosmetic surgery or a physical injury that results in death.
Sexually mature animal means any dog or cat that has reached the age of six months or more or an animal that has come into heat-estrous or has the ability to breed and create a pregnancy.
Sterilization means the surgical removal of the reproductive organs of a dog or cat in order to render the animal unable to reproduce. Similarly, the term "sterilized" means when a dog or cat has undergone sterilization.
Stray cat means any cat which is found off the property of its owner, is not under restraint, and without attached to such cat a valid rabies control tag together with an identification microchip, tattoo, or tag.
Stray dog means any dog which is found off the property of its owner, is not under restraint, and without attached to such dog a valid rabies control tag together with an identification microchip, tattoo, or tag.
Under restraint means that an animal is secured by a leash, lead, or chain of sufficient tensile strength held by a person of sufficient age who is physically capable of restraining the animal and obedient to that person's commands, is at heel, or is securely enclosed within the real property limits of the owner's property.
Unsanitary conditions means any condition that is not sanitary, including, but not limited to, a buildup of excreta, spoiled or moldy food, unclean or stagnant water, pests, vermin, and any health code violation.
Vicious animal means any animal that attacks, bites or injures pets, companion animals or livestock or which, because of temperament, conditioning, or training, has a known propensity to attack, bite, or injure pets, companion animals, or livestock. No animal my be declared vicious if a threat, injury or damage was sustained by a pet, companion animal or livestock that, at the time, was committing a willful trespass or other tort upon the premises occupied by the owner or keeper of the animal. The term "vicious animal" shall not be construed to include dogs that are part of a governmental organization in the performance of its duties.
Vicious dog means a dog that, without provocation, has bitten or attempted to bite any person or another animal.
Without provocation and unprovoked mean that the animal at issue was not or had not been assaulted, teased, tormented, or abused by the person or domestic animal which was the subject of the act by the animal at issue, or that the animal at issue was not coming to the aid of or defending its young or was not acting against a person who was willfully trespassing or committing another willful tort or criminal act on the premises of such animal at issue's owner or custodian.
(Ord. of 3-11-2002, §§ 9-3-11, 9-3-24; Ord. of 9-8-2008, § II(9-2-4(B)))
State Law reference— Similar definitions, O.C.G.A. §§ 4-3-2, 4-8-21, 4-8-41, 4-11-1, 4-11-12.
Sec. 6-2. - Purpose and intent.
The purpose of this chapter is to provide humane treatment of animals by regulating the care and control of animals within the city, to provide for the classification of dangerous dogs and potentially dangerous dogs, to provide for the prohibition and investigation of cruelty to animals, and to make such cruelty unlawful, to provide for prohibitions, procedures, and enforcement pertaining to sick, injured, abandoned, or free roaming or running animals, and other matters set forth herein, and to promote the public health, safety, and general welfare of the city's citizens.
(Ord. of 9-8-2008, § II(9-2-4(A)))
Secs. 6-3—6-22. - Reserved.
ARTICLE II. - ADMINISTRATION AND ENFORCEMENT
DIVISION 1. - GENERALLY

Sec. 6-23. - Animal control unit.
There is hereby created an animal control unit for the city under the general supervision of the city council.
(Ord. of 3-11-2002, § 9-3-10)
Sec. 6-24. - Animal control advisory board.
The animal control advisory board shall be composed of not less than five members, consisting of the chief of police or his designee, a veterinarian, and three other members to be appointed by the city police chief for terms of two years.
(Ord. of 3-11-2002, § 9-3-25)
Sec. 6-25. - Enforcement authority; citations and other enforcement procedures.
(a)
Any law enforcement official of the city shall have the authority to investigate any circumstances, facts, conditions, or complaints regarding a possible violation of the requirements or prohibitions of this chapter. These officials shall have the authority to act on behalf of the city and in investigating complaints, impounding, and destroying animals, executing warrants, issuing citations, making arrests, and taking other lawful action as required to enforce the provisions of this chapter.
(b)
Upon the sworn affidavit of any citizen alleging a violation of this chapter or upon his own initiative, a law enforcement official may issue a citation to a person to appear before the municipal court of the city for an adjudication of the complaint against such person.
(Ord. of 3-11-2002, § 9-3-16; Ord. of 9-8-2008, § II(9-2-4(L))
Sec. 6-26. - Interference with animal control officer.
(a)
It shall be a violation of this chapter for anyone to interfere with or hamper, or cause the interference with or hampering of, the facilities, personnel, or operation of any other property or facilities maintained or operated by the city, for the confinement or protection of animals by, for, at the request of, or under supervision of the city, or to remove from any such facility without the prior consent of the operator of the facility, or an authorized officer, any animal kept therein.
(b)
It shall be a violation of this chapter for anyone to resist, hinder, delay, interfere with, or molest any person, agent, or employee, in the performance of his duties or responsibilities therewith.
(c)
It shall be a violation of this chapter to tamper with, interfere with, remove animals from, harass or harm animals within, damage, remove, or destroy any device for trapping animals owned or operated by a law enforcement agency or other city department.
(Ord. of 9-8-2008, § II(9-2-4(L)(3))
Secs. 6-27—6-55. - Reserved.
DIVISION 2. - IMPOUNDMENT

FOOTNOTE(S):
--- (2) ---
State Law reference— Duty to provide for care of impounded animals, lien for costs of care, and return of animals to owner, O.C.G.A. § 4-11-9.3; notice to owner of impoundment, O.C.G.A. § 4-11-9.4; sterilization of certain dogs and cats required, O.C.G.A. § 4-14-3.
Sec. 6-56. - Applicability.
The procedure provided in this division for seizure, impoundment and disposition of animals shall be supplemental to other provisions of this chapter providing for impoundment of vicious, dangerous, potentially dangerous, diseased and abused animals. In the event of conflict, the more restrictive provision shall be applied.
Sec. 6-57. - When permitted.
Any and all animals found in a condition which constitutes a violation of this chapter or any applicable state law on the part of the animal's owner (if any), may be immediately impounded by agents of the animal control unit or by members of the city police department. Without limitation, the authority to impound granted under this and other sections of this chapter includes the authority to immediately seize and impound:
(1)
Any dog or cat not wearing a valid rabies control tag.
(2)
Any animal at large and not under restraint.
(3)
Any public nuisance animal or animal considered a danger to the public welfare, health, or safety.
(4)
Any animal in violation of any quarantine or confinement order issued by an authorized state or local officer.
(5)
Any unattended animal that is ill, suffering, injured, without adequate food, water, or shelter, or is otherwise in need of immediate care or attention.
(6)
Any animal that is reasonably believed to have been the subject of cruelty, abuse, or neglect.
(7)
Any animal that is reasonably suspected of having or having been exposed to rabies.
(8)
Any animal that is reasonably suspected of having, or having been exposed to, a contagious disease, sickness, or illness, which animal could thereby be a threat to the health and welfare of other animals or of the public.
(9)
Any animal that is charged with being potentially dangerous or dangerous where an authorized official determines that there is an immediate threat to public welfare, health, or safety.
(10)
Any animal that a court of competent jurisdiction has ordered impounded or destroyed.
(11)
Any animal that is considered unattended or abandoned, as in situations where the owner or custodian is deceased or has been incarcerated or evicted from his regular place of residence and there is no other person who will take custody of and provide adequate care to the animal.
(Ord. of 3-11-2002, § 9-3-14; Ord. of 9-8-2008, § II(9-2-4(E)(1))
Sec. 6-58. - Issuance of citation to owner.
The city or its law enforcement officials may, in addition to or in lieu of seizure and impoundment, issue to the owner a citation of violation of this article. The citation will cite the owner to appear on a date certain before the city's municipal court for adjudication.
(Ord. of 9-8-2008, § II(9-2-4(E)(2))
Sec. 6-59. - Disposition of impounded animals; redemption; fees.
(a)
Any dog or cat seized or impounded by the animal control unit shall be detained at the animal control unit or such other suitable place as may be designated by the animal control unit. The agents of such units shall notify by mail or telephone the owner of such dog or cat, if known or can be reasonably ascertained, that such dog or cat has been impounded.
(b)
The owner of any dog or cat impounded, within seven days after the mailing, in the case of notification by mail, or seven days after receipt of notification by telephone, may reclaim such dog or cat upon payment of fees for impoundment, boarding, rabies vaccination (if necessary), microchip installation fee or records retention and update fee in the amounts specified in the city fee schedule.
(c)
This section shall not apply to any animal that was an object or instrumentality of a crime, which animal shall not be returned to the owner or disposed of without the prior approval of the prosecuting attorney or court of competent jurisdiction.
(Ord. of 3-11-2002, § 9-3-17; Ord. of 9-8-2008, § II(9-2-4(F)(1))
Sec. 6-60. - Waiver of fees for hunting dogs impounded during hunting season.
If a dog has a collar and a tag or a definite tattoo marking, and the owner can provide reasonable proof that the dog is a hunting dog that was impounded during hunting season, then the impoundment fee will be waived.
(Ord. of 3-11-2002, § 9-3-17)
Sec. 6-61. - Impoundment of unwanted litters.
The city will pick up unwanted litters of puppies or kittens. Pickup fees are as specified in the city fee schedule and shall be increased for each successive pickup.
(Ord. of 3-11-2002, § 9-3-17)
State Law reference— Euthanasia of dogs and cats by animal shelters, O.C.G.A. § 4-11-5.1; disposal of impounded animals, O.C.G.A. § 4-11-9.6.
Sec. 6-62. - Disposition.
(a)
Except as otherwise provided in this division, any stray animal which has been impounded and is not taken up by the owner within three business days of the date impounded shall be subject to destruction or other disposition (including adoption) by animal control.
(b)
Except as otherwise provided in this division, any animal reasonably believed to have an owner or custodian which has been impounded and is not taken up by its owner or custodian within five business days of the date impounded shall be subject to destruction or other disposition (including adoption).
(c)
Animals not wearing rabies tags when impounded and which are observed to be in agony due to disease, sickness, or injury, or otherwise appear to be hopelessly disable, may be destroyed promptly by the city unless the animal has bitten a person and must be held for observation for rabies.
(Ord. of 3-11-2002, § 9-3-19; Ord. of 9-8-2008, § II(9-2-4(F)(1))
State Law reference— Euthanasia of dogs and cats by animal shelters, O.C.G.A. § 4-11-5.1; disposal of impounded animals, O.C.G.A. § 4-11-9.6.
Sec. 6-63. - Adoption procedure.
The animal control unit may offer for adoption to any person any dog or cat unredeemed or unclaimed by the owner after seven days upon payment of the rabies vaccination, microchip identification installation and adoption fees specified in the city fee schedule.
(Ord. of 3-11-2002, § 9-3-18)
Secs. 6-64—6-84. - Reserved.
ARTICLE III. - ANIMAL PROTECTION AND CONTROL
FOOTNOTE(S):
--- (3) ---
State Law reference— Authority of municipalities to enact ordinances for the protection of animals, O.C.G.A. § 4-11-18.
DIVISION 1. - GENERALLY

Sec. 6-85. - Applicability to dogs and cats.
This article applies to all animals, including dogs and cats. However, with regard to dogs and cats, the provisions of this article are supplemental and in addition to the regulations provided in article IV of this chapter.
Sec. 6-86. - Adequate food, water, shelter and humane care required.
It shall be unlawful for any owner or custodian of any animal to refuse or fail to provide such animal adequate food and water, adequate shelter and humane care, including without limitation as reasonably necessary to prevent malnutrition, dehydration, or physical suffering taking into account the animal's size, age, physical condition, breed, and species.
(Ord. of 9-8-2008, § II(9-2-4(J)(2))
Sec. 6-87. - Abandonment prohibited.
It shall be unlawful for any owner or custodian of any animal to willfully abandon such animal on any street, road, highway, or public place, or on private property of another person.
(Ord. of 9-8-2008, § II(9-2-4(J)(3))
Sec. 6-88. - Accumulation of waste matter and unsanitary conditions prohibited.
(a)
It shall be unlawful for any owner or custodian of any animal to permit the accumulation of waste matter from such animal to collect and remain on the property of the owner or custodian, or on the property of others, so as to cause or create an unhealthy, unsanitary, dangerous, noxious, or offensive living condition for the animal or condition on the owner's or custodian's property, or the abutting property of others.
(b)
It shall be unlawful for any owner or custodian of any animal to permit or cause unhealthy, unsanitary, dangerous, noxious, or offensive conditions by virtue of the size or number of animals maintained at a single location or due to the inadequacy of the facilities for such animals, taking into account each such animal's size, age, physical condition, breed, and species.
(Ord. of 9-8-2008, § II(9-2-4(J)(4), (5))
Sec. 6-89. - Restraint required; running at large prohibited; enforcement.
(a)
It shall be unlawful for the owner or custodian of any animal to fail to keep such animal under restraint or to permit such animal to roam or run at large, except as otherwise provided in this article. Any dog, while off the property of the owner or upon any private property without the consent of the owner of the property, shall be under restraint by its owner or custodian.
(b)
Any person finding an animal at large upon his property may use reasonable means to remove the same to the animal shelter or hold the animal in his own possession, and as soon as possible, notify the city. The property owner shall provide a description to the city of the animal and the name of the owner, if known. The city shall dispatch an authorized officer to impound the animal as soon as possible.
(c)
If the name of the owner of an animal found at large is known or can be obtained with reasonable dispatch, the city at its discretion may return the animal to the residential address of the owner. If there is no responsible person present, or if the city determines in its discretion to otherwise not return the animal, the city shall impound the animal and leave written notice of whom the owner must contact to reclaim the animal.
(d)
The city may cite the owner of such animal found at large for a violation of this section, and in addition, if such animal is impounded, the owner shall be liable for fees and costs imposed by this section in reclaiming an impounded animal.
(Ord. of 9-8-2008, § II(9-2-4(D)(1), (D)(2), (E)(3), (G))
Sec. 6-90. - Domestic fowl or livestock at large; impoundment; disposal.
(a)
It is unlawful for any owner or person in control of any domestic fowl or livestock to allow that domestic fowl or livestock to run at large within the city. It is unlawful for any cattle, hogs, horses or other domestic fowl or livestock to be at large within the corporate limits of the city.
(b)
It shall be the duty of the chief of police to impound any and all cattle, cows, calves, horses or other domestic fowl or livestock found at large within the corporate limits of the city, and advertise same by posting a full description of such cattle, hogs, horses or other domestic fowl or livestock and giving the date and place where they shall be sold.
(c)
After such animal or animals have been advertised for sale five days as indicated above, it shall be the duty of the chief of police to sell such animal or animals, and to deduct from the proceeds of the sale a fee in the amount provided in the city fee schedule for impoundment, advertising, daily board and feed.
(d)
The owner may redeem the animal by paying the chief of police the fees and expenses specified in this section.
(Code 1989, § 9-3-2(a))
State Law reference— Livestock running at large, O.C.G.A. § 4-3-1 et seq.; disposal of impounded livestock, O.C.G.A. § 4-3-7.
Sec. 6-91. - Pigs not permitted within city limits.
It is unlawful to keep any live swine or pigs within the city limits.
(Code 1989, § 9-3-3)
Sec. 6-92. - Animal enclosure construction and maintenance requirements.
Any housing or enclosure used for the keeping of animals or fowl shall be well drained, free from accumulations of animal excrement and objectionable odors, and otherwise clean and sanitary.
(Code 1989, § 9-3-4)
Sec. 6-93. - Cruelty prohibited.
It is unlawful for any person to inflict, cause or permit cruelty to or upon any animal, including without limitation to negligently, willfully or maliciously strike, beat, physically, or mentally abuse, overwork, overload, maim or disfigure, intentionally chase or run down with a vehicle, bicycle, or motorized or powered implement, or otherwise engage in any act or omission causing, inflicting, or resulting in unnecessary pain, injury, physical or mental suffering, abuse, or death to an animal, in each case taking into account the animal's age, size, physical condition, breed, and species, except that reasonable force may be used in self-defense to destroy a vicious or dangerous animals or to drive away trespassing animals as authorized by state law. Examples of acts prohibited by this section include, but are not limited to:
(1)
Allowing a collar, rope, chain, or other item to become embedded in or cause injury to an animal's neck or other portion of the body.
(2)
Allowing a slip type choke, or pinch type collar to be used as a primary collar to tether an animal.
(3)
Intentionally causing or allowing animals to engage in a fight.
(4)
Allowing animals to live in unsanitary conditions.
(5)
Allowing animals to live in regularly over-crowded conditions.
(6)
Failure or refusal to obtain veterinary medical treatment for an animal when, in the opinion of a veterinarian, a law enforcement official, or any officer authorized to enforce the provisions of this chapter, such treatment is needed.
(7)
Shooting a domestic animal, either on or off of the owner's property, unless such domestic animal is then in the act of attacking or maliciously chasing a human being, horse, hog, goat, poultry, any other domestic animal or sheep or cattle, and shooting such domestic animal is then the most reasonable action under the particular circumstance, except under the direction of a veterinarian or law enforcement official where the animal is hopelessly suffering.
(Code 1989, § 9-3-5; Ord. of 9-8-2008, § II(9-2-4(K)(a))
State Law reference— Animal protection, O.C.G.A. § 4-11-1 et seq.; performing cruel acts on, harming, maiming or killing dogs, O.C.G.A. § 4-8-1.
Sec. 6-94. - Poisoning prohibited.
It shall be unlawful for any person to intentionally administer poison to any animal, or knowingly leave any poisonous substance of any kind or ground glass or other harmful substance in any place with the intent to injure any animal. This provision is not applicable to licensed pest control exterminators using poisons as part of an insect pest control program or the use of commercial insecticides, rodenticides, or rodent baits used to control insect and wild rodents, or to licensed veterinarians using veterinary pharmaceuticals in providing bona fide veterinary services.
(Ord. of 9-8-2008, § II(9-2-4(K)(b))
Sec. 6-95. - Authority to remove animals from vehicles.
The animal control department may use any force reasonably necessary to remove any animal locked in a closed vehicle if the owner cannot be immediately located. The operator of the vehicle will be charged with cruelty to animals as defined in this chapter. No injunction or claim for damages may be placed against the animal control department or its officers for this action.
Sec. 6-96. - Nuisance animals and animals that disturb the peace prohibited.
(a)
No person owning any dog or any other animal shall suffer or permit such animal to disturb the peace and quiet of the neighborhood by barking, making other loud or unusual noises, or by running through or across cultivated gardens, lawns, or fields.
(b)
No owner or custodian of any animal shall fail to exercise proper care and control of such animal to prevent the same from becoming a public nuisance. It shall be unlawful for any person to keep any animal on any property located within the city when the keeping of such animal constitutes a public nuisance or menace to public health, welfare, or safety.
(Code 1989, § 9-3-6; Ord. of 9-8-2008, § II(9-2-4(D)(3), (H))
Sec. 6-97. - Rabies inoculation.
It shall be the duty of the owner or person in custody of any animal kept in the city to have the animal inoculated against rabies at least once each year. The certification along with owner identification must be worn around the animal's neck at all times. The owner of an animal subject to this section must possess a current certification of rabies vaccination for each animal owned as provided for by state law.
(Ord. of 3-11-2002, §§ 9-3-8, 9-3-15)
State Law reference— Responsibility for control of rabies, O.C.G.A. § 31-19-1.
Sec. 6-98. - Bird sanctuary; destruction of nuisance birds.
The entire area embraced within the corporate limits of the city is designated as a bird sanctuary. It is unlawful to trap, hunt, molest or kill any wild bird or to rob any wild bird's nest; provided, however, if nuisance birds such as starlings are found to be congregating in such numbers in a particular locality so as to constitute a nuisance or a menace to health or property in the opinion of the city council, those birds may be destroyed as humanely as possible, under the supervision of the police department, in such numbers and in such manner as is deemed advisable by the city council.
(Code 1989, § 9-3-1)
Sec. 6-99. - Hunting, trapping, disturbing or killing of wild game prohibited; exception.
It is unlawful to trap, hunt, disturb or kill any other wild game in the city except by order of the chief of police.
(Code 1989, § 9-3-1)
Sec. 6-100. - Destruction of hopelessly disabled animals.
Licensed veterinarians, federal, state, and local law enforcement officials, and those authorized by the city manager to administer and enforce the provisions of this section, in each case while acting within the scope of their authority, are authorized to induce the death of hopelessly disabled animals by an appropriately humane method.
(Ord. of 9-8-2008, § II(9-2-4(C)(1))
Sec. 6-101. - Destruction of contagious, ill animals.
(a)
In any situation deemed appropriate by an animal services officer involving a sick, diseased, or infected animal which sickness or disease, in the opinion of a licensed veterinarian, or a state or federal employee acting within the scope of his authority, will likely spread to other animals or humans, an authorized officer may impound and take custody of any such animal, the animal shall be isolated, and the owner or custodian of such animal shall be promptly notified.
(b)
If the owner or custodian cannot be located, the owner or custodian fails to take immediate steps to remove the animal from impoundment, and take immediate steps to isolate the animal to properly eliminate the likelihood of infecting other animals or humans or otherwise spreading the sickness, disease, or infection, or, if in the opinion of a licensed veterinarian, destroying the animal is the most reasonable course of action to eliminate the health or safety risk of the animal spreading the sickness, disease, or infection, then in any such event, the infected animal shall be humanely destroyed in accordance with state law.
(c)
The owner of any such animal impounded pursuant to this section shall be liable for reimbursement to the city or county, or both, as appropriate for all expenses related to the impoundment, boarding, treatment, and destruction of any such animal.
(Ord. of 9-8-2008, § II(9-2-4(C)(2))
Secs. 6-102—6-130. - Reserved.
DIVISION 2. - VICIOUS AND DANGEROUS ANIMALS

Sec. 6-131. - Duty of animal owners and custodians to ensure compliance.
(a)
It shall be the duty of every owner or custodian of any vicious animal to ensure that it is kept under restraint and that reasonable care and precautions are taken to prevent it from leaving the real property limits of its owner, possessor, or custodian, and ensure compliance with the provisions of this division.
(b)
It shall be unlawful for an owner or custodian of a vicious dog to permit the dog within the city to be outside a proper, secure enclosure unless the dog is restrained by a substantial chain or leash and is under the physical restraint of a responsible person.
(Ord. of 3-11-2002, § 9-3-34; Ord. of 9-8-2008, § II(9-2-4(C))
Sec. 6-132. - Confinement or restraint required.
(a)
Compliance required. It is unlawful for any person to cause, permit, accompany or be responsible for the presence of any vicious dog or cat on the streets or public places of the city or allow the animal to run on the premises of another, at any time except in compliance with this section.
(b)
Enclosure. Every vicious or dangerous animal shall be securely and humanely enclosed within a house, building, fence, pen or other enclosure out of which it cannot climb, dig, jump, or otherwise escape on its own volition. Such enclosure is securely locked at any time the animal is left unattended.
(c)
Leashing. Whenever the animal is outside of its enclosure as provided for above, but on the owner's property, it must be attended by the owner and restrained by a secure collar and leash of sufficient strength to prevent escape. The leash shall be no longer than ten feet, and the animal must be kept at least 15 feet within the perimeter boundaries of the property unless the perimeter is securely fenced.
(d)
Tethering. No vicious animal shall be chained, tethered, or otherwise tied to any inanimate object such as a tree, post, or building, outside of an enclosure meeting the specifications of this section.
(e)
Muzzling. If any persons shall cause, permit, accompany or be responsible for the presence of any vicious dog or cat on the streets or in public places within the city or on the premises of another, the animal shall be securely muzzled to effectively prevent it from biting any person or another animal.
(Ord. of 3-11-2002, § 9-3-34(1)—(4))
Sec. 6-133. - Inspection of enclosures.
All enclosures or housing units for vicious and dangerous animals will be inspected by the animal control agent.
(Ord. of 3-11-2002, § 9-3-34(5))
Sec. 6-134. - Enforcement procedure; penalties; disposition.
(a)
Impoundment. An animal may be immediately confiscated and held by any law enforcement official, or those authorized by the city to administer and enforce the provisions of this chapter, while acting within the scope of their respective authority, if the animal without provocation has:
(1)
Killed, bitten, or otherwise severely injured a person or another domestic animal;
(2)
Repeatedly chased or otherwise threatened persons or other domestic animals in a vicious or menacing manner indicating a reasonable likelihood that the animal will cause imminent physical injury; or
(3)
Repeatedly caused significant damage to the property of other than that of its owner or custodian.
The impounded animal shall be confined in the county animal shelter pending a hearing, if necessary, to determine whether such animal should be destroyed as a public nuisance and, if not, in the case of a dog, classified as a dangerous dog or potentially dangerous dog.
(b)
Notice to owner. The owner of any animal that has been so confiscated shall be given notice of said animal's confiscation. The notice to the owner shall be in writing and sent by certified mail or statutory overnight delivery to the last known address of the owner. The notice shall give a description of the animal and set forth the reasons that the animal has been confiscated, together with the date, time, and place of the hearing.
(c)
Time for holding hearing. A hearing before the city shall be scheduled within 15 days from the date of notice to the owner of the animal's confiscation to determine if the animal should be destroyed as a public nuisance. At said hearing, the owner of the confiscated animal shall have the right to present testimony and evidence as to why the animal should not be destroyed as a public nuisance.
(d)
Factors to be considered at hearing. The city, after receiving all pertinent testimony and evidence on the matter, shall decide whether the animal shall be destroyed as a public nuisance. In making its decision, the city shall consider whether the animal constitutes such a physical threat to persons or other animals, or of significant destruction or harm to property, by virtue of one or more unprovoked attacks on persons, other domestic animals, or physical property that destruction of the animal is reasonably necessary to protect the health, welfare, or property in the city.
(e)
Determination that animal must be destroyed. If the city decides that said animal should be destroyed, then the owner shall promptly be given written notice thereof, and the animal shall be humanely destroyed any time after five business days after the date of such written notice of the decision of the city in accordance with state law.
(f)
Determination that animal is a dangerous or potentially dangerous dog. If the city decides the animal should not be destroyed, the city shall determine whether such animal shall be classified as a dangerous dog or potentially dangerous dog. If the city determines that such dog shall be classified as a dangerous dog or potentially dangerous dog, the owner shall promptly be given written notice thereof, and the dog shall continue to be impounded by city until the owner shall have complied with all the requirements of this article, after which the animal will be returned to the owner. If the owner fails to meet said requirements within ten business days following written notice of the decision of the authorized official classifying of the dog as a dangerous dog or potentially dangerous dog, or to timely request a hearing appealing such decision, the dog shall be humanely destroyed in accordance with state law; provided, however, that the city may extend said time for up to an additional 15-day period upon payment by the owner of the per diem boarding costs for said dog.
(g)
Fees and costs. The owner of an animal confiscated under the provisions of this section shall pay a fee of $50.00 and reimburse the city for all costs of housing, feeding, and any medical treatment of said animal.
(Code 1989, § 9-3-7; Ord. of 9-8-2008, § II(9-2-4(C))
Secs. 6-135—6-151. - Reserved.
ARTICLE IV. - DOGS AND CATS
DIVISION 1. - GENERALLY

Sec. 6-152. - Maximum number of dogs and cats per lot.
It shall be unlawful to keep more than two dogs or two cats on any one lot; provided, however, that an exception is made and an additional dog may be kept on a lot when the occupant or owner of the premises has a medical need or is handicapped and the dog in question is a trained animal used to benefit or aid a handicapped or medically ill individual.
(Ord. of 9-8-2008, § II(9-2-4(J)(1))
Sec. 6-153. - Running at large prohibited.
(a)
It shall be unlawful for any owner or custodian of any cat to allow the cat to roam free on the property of another without permission of the owner or person in possession of that property, or without such cat wearing a collar with a current rabies tag attached.
(b)
It shall be unlawful for any owner or custodian of any dog to allow the dog to roam or run free on the property of another without the permission of the owner or person in possession of that property, or without such dog wearing a collar with a current rabies control tag attached.
(Ord. of 9-8-2008, § II(9-2-4(J)(6), (7))
Sec. 6-154. - Confinement of female dogs and cats in heat required.
Every female dog or cat, which is not sterilized, during the period it is in heat shall be confined in a building or other enclosure in such a manner that such female dog or cat cannot come into contact with another animal of the same species or breed, except for planned breeding.
(Ord. of 9-8-2008, § II(9-2-4(D)(4))
State Law reference— Permitting dogs in heat to run free prohibited, O.C.G.A. § 4-8-6.
Sec. 6-155. - Removal of dog feces from certain areas.
The owner, keeper, walker or person in charge of any dog shall not permit solid fecal matter of such animal to deposit on any street, alley, or other public or private property, unless such matter is immediately removed therefrom by said owner or person in charge. This section shall not apply to a person who is visually or physically handicapped.
Sec. 6-156. - Running at large prohibited.
It is unlawful for the owner or custodian of a dog or cat to allow such animal to run at large in the city.
(Ord. of 3-11-2002, § 9-3-12(a))
Sec. 6-157. - Nuisances prohibited; appeal of nuisance classification.
It shall be a violation of the article for the owner of any dog or cat to allow the dog or cat to act so as to become a public nuisance dog or cat as defined in this chapter. The owner of any dog or cat which has been classified as a nuisance dog or cat by the animal control unit shall have a right to appeal such classification, in writing, to the city court. The decision of the city court shall be final.
(Ord. of 3-11-2002, §§ 9-3-12(b), 9-3-20)
Sec. 6-158. - Collar and identification tag required.
It shall be a violation of this article for the owner to permit a dog or cat off the premises of that owner's property without a collar and identification tag for each animal. The identification tag shall give the name, current address, and telephone number of the owner.
(Ord. of 3-11-2002, § 9-3-12(c))
Secs. 6-159—6-184. - Reserved.
DIVISION 2. - LICENSES

Sec. 6-185. - Required.
Any person owning, keeping, harboring, or having custody of any dog or cat over four months of age within this municipality must obtain a license as herein provided.
(Ord. of 3-11-2002, § 9-3-35(a))
Sec. 6-186. - Application; fees; rabies vaccination certificate; annual renewal.
(a)
Application for a license must be made within 30 days after obtaining a dog or cat over four months of age; provided, however, that this requirement will not apply to a nonresident keeping a dog or cat within the municipality for no longer than 60 days. Each license shall be renewed between January 1 and January 31 of the year following issuance and each year thereafter.
(b)
Written application for licenses, which shall include the name and address of the applicant and a description of the animal, shall be made to the licensing authority, accompanied by a license fee in the amount provided in the city fee schedule and a rabies certificate issued by a licensed veterinarian or anti-rabies clinic.
(Ord. of 3-11-2002, § 9-3-35(b), (d), (e), (k), (n))
Sec. 6-187. - Term of license; prorated fees.
The licensing period shall begin with the fiscal year and shall run for one year. A license application may be made 30 days prior to, and up to 60 days after, the start of the fiscal year. Persons applying for a license during the licensing year shall be required to pay one-half of the fee stipulated in this section.
(Ord. of 3-11-2002, § 9-3-35(c), (i))
Sec. 6-188. - Fees; service dogs exempt from fees.
Fees for original issuance of licenses and renewal and duplicates thereof shall be in the amounts provided in the city fee schedule. License fees shall not be required for certified service dogs, governmental police dogs, or other certified dogs that are trained to assist the physically handicapped.
(Ord. of 3-11-2002, § 9-3-35(e))
Sec. 6-189. - Tag and identification collar to be issued and fastened to collar or harness.
Upon acceptance of the license application and fee, the licensing authority shall issue a durable tag or identification collar, stamped with an identifying number and the year of issuance. Tags should be designed so that they may be conveniently fastened or riveted to the animal's collar or harness. Dogs and cats must wear identification tags or collars at all times when off the premises of the owners.
(Ord. of 3-11-2002, § 9-3-35(f), (g))
Sec. 6-190. - Record of issued tags to be maintained and made public.
The licensing authority shall maintain a record of the identifying numbers of all tags issued and shall make this record available to the public at all times.
(Ord. of 3-11-2002, § 9-3-35(h))
Sec. 6-191. - License to be used only for animal for which issued.
No person may use any license for any animal other than the animal for which it was issued.
(Ord. of 3-11-2002, § 9-3-35(m))
Sec. 6-192. - Duplicate licenses.
A duplicate license may be obtained upon payment of a replacement fee in the amount specified in the city fee schedule.
(Ord. of 3-11-2002, § 9-3-35(l))
Secs. 6-193—6-222. - Reserved.
ARTICLE V. - DANGEROUS AND POTENTIALLY DANGEROUS DOGS
FOOTNOTE(S):
--- (4) ---
State Law reference— Dangerous Dog Control Law, O.C.G.A. § 4-8-20 et seq.; vicious dog control (Mercedes' Law), O.C.G.A. § 4-8-40 et seq.; duties of cities with regard to dangerous dogs, O.C.G.A. § 4-8-22; registration of dangerous dogs, O.C.G.A. § 4-8-25; muzzling and restraint, O.C.G.A. § 4-8-26; confiscation and destruction, O.C.G.A. § 4-8-27.
DIVISION 1. - GENERALLY

Sec. 6-223. - Registration.
(a)
Required; issuance. It is unlawful for an owner to have or possess within the city limits a dangerous or potentially dangerous dog without a certificate of registration issued in accordance with the provisions of this division. The animal enforcement agent or police officer shall issue a certificate of registration to the owner of such dog if the owner presents to the animal enforcement agent sufficient evidence of compliance with the provisions of this division and pays the registration fee in the amount specified in the city fee schedule.
(b)
Time for registration of dogs owned by new residents. The owner of a dangerous or potentially dangerous dog who is a new resident of the city shall register the dog as required in this section within 30 days after becoming a resident.
(c)
Annual renewal. Certificate of registration shall be renewed on an annual basis. At the time of the renewal of a certificate of registration, an animal enforcement agent or police officer shall require evidence from the owner or make such investigations as may be necessary to verify that all requirements of this division continue to be met. Application for renewal shall be accompanied by a renewal fee in the amount provided in the city fee schedule.
(d)
Certificate not a guarantee. Issuance of a certificate of registration or the renewal of a certificate of registration by the city does not warrant or guarantee that the requirements specified in subsections (b) and (c) of this section were met or are maintained by the owner of a dangerous or potentially dangerous dog.
(Ord. of 3-11-2002, § 9-3-29(a), (b), (f), (h); Ord. of 9-8-2008, § II(9-2-4(I)(3))
Sec. 6-224. - Warning signs.
The owner or custodian of a dangerous or potentially dangerous dog shall post a clearly visible sign on the premises where the dog is located warning that there is a dangerous dog on the property. Such sign shall prominently display the dangerous dog symbol designed by the state department of natural resources pursuant to O.C.G.A. § 4-8-25(b)(2)(B).
(Ord. of 3-11-2002, § 9-3-29(b))
Sec. 6-225. - Insurance or bond.
The owner or custodian of a dangerous or potentially dangerous dog shall acquire and maintain at all times in full force and effect a policy of insurance in the amount of at least $15,000.00 issued by an insurer authorized to transact business in this state insuring the owner of the dangerous dog against liability for any personal injuries inflicted by the dangerous dog. Alternatively, the owner or custodian shall acquire and maintain a security bond in the amount of $15,000.00 or more issued by a surety company authorized to transact business in this state payable to any person or persons injured by the dangerous dog.
(Ord. of 3-11-2002, § 9-3-29(c))
Sec. 6-226. - Notice of change in status of dog.
The owner of a dangerous or potentially dangerous dog shall notify the city animal control office immediately if the dog is on the loose, is unconfined, has attacked a human, has died or has been sold, donated, or disposed of. If the dog has been sold, donated, or disposed of, the former owner shall provide the animal control office with the name, address, and telephone number of the new owner of the dog. The owner of the dangerous or potentially dangerous dog shall notify the city animal control office if the owner is moving from the incorporated portion of the city.
(Ord. of 3-11-2002, § 9-3-29(d), (e))
Sec. 6-227. - Muzzle and leash required for dog outside enclosure.
It is unlawful for an owner of a dangerous or potentially dangerous dog to permit the dog to be outside a proper enclosure unless the dog is muzzled and restrained by a substantial chain or leash and is under the physical restraint of a responsible person. The muzzle shall be made in a manner that will not cause injury to the dog or interfere with its vision or respiration but will prevent it from biting any person.
(Ord. of 3-11-2002, § 9-3-30)
Secs. 6-228—6-247. - Reserved.
DIVISION 2. - CLASSIFICATION PROCEDURE

Sec. 6-248. - Investigation required.
Upon receiving a report of a dangerous dog or potentially dangerous dog within an animal enforcement agent's jurisdiction from a law enforcement agency, animal control agency, rabies control officer, or county board of health, the animal enforcement agent shall make such investigations and inquiries with regard to such report as may be necessary to carry out the provisions of this article.
(Ord. of 3-11-2002, § 9-3-27; Ord. of 9-8-2008, § II(9-2-4(I)(1))
Sec. 6-249. - Effect of deviations from procedure.
As applied to the owners of potentially dangerous dogs, the procedures provided in this division must be carried out as a necessary condition for the enforcement of the provisions of this division against such owners. As applied to the owners of dangerous dogs, the procedures provided in this division shall not be an essential element of any crime provided for in this article.
(Ord. of 3-11-2002, § 9-3-28(a); Ord. of 9-8-2008, § II(9-2-4(I)(2))
Sec. 6-250. - Notice of classification or reclassification.
When a dangerous dog or a potentially dangerous dog is classified as such, and when an animal previously classified as a potentially dangerous dog is reclassified as a dangerous dog, the animal enforcement agent or police officer shall notify the dog's owner of such classification or reclassification. The notice to the owner shall be in writing and mailed by certified mail to the owner's last known address. The notice shall:
(1)
Include a summary of the enforcing officer's findings that formed the basis for the dog's classification as a dangerous or potentially dangerous dog;
(2)
Be dated and state that the owner, within 15 days after the date shown on the notice, has a right to request a hearing on the enforcing officer's determination that the dog is a dangerous or potentially dangerous dog;
(3)
State that the hearing, if requested, shall be before the city court and, if a hearing is not requested, the enforcing officer's determination that the dog is a dangerous or potentially dangerous dog will become effective for all purposes under this article on a date specified in the notice, which shall be after the last day on which the owner has a right to request a hearing; and
(4)
Include a form to request a hearing before the applicable court and shall provide specific instructions on mailing or delivering such request to the court.
(Ord. of 3-11-2002, § 9-3-28(b), (c); Ord. of 9-8-2008, § II(9-2-4(I)(2)(b))
Sec. 6-251. - Requests for hearing; effect of failure to appear; costs.
(a)
The city shall conduct hearings when requested under this section by the owner aggrieved by a decision of an authorized officer with respect to classifying such owner's dog as a dangerous dog or a potentially dangerous dog, or the reclassification of a potentially dangerous dog as a dangerous dog.
(b)
Request for hearing shall be made by the animal owner within five business days of receiving a notice of a right to request such hearing. Any person who requests a hearing, provided for in this section but who, after receipt of notice of the hearing, fails to appear at said hearing shall be deemed to have abandoned the hearing request and the decision of the authorized officer which was to be the subject of such hearing shall be affirmed and final.
(c)
The owner of an animal requesting a hearing shall pay the additional daily boarding and other fees as established in this article. Failure to pay the fees and costs assessed against the owner, if affirmed by the city, shall constitute an abandonment of any claim to the animal and will result in the animal being disposed of as otherwise provided in this article.
(Ord. of 3-11-2002, § 9-3-28(d); Ord. of 9-8-2008, § II(9-2-4(I)(2)(c), (M)(1))
Sec. 6-252. - Conduct of hearing.
At the hearing, the owner of the dog shall be given the opportunity to testify and present evidence and, in addition thereto, the court shall receive such other evidence and hear such other testimony as the court may find reasonably necessary to make a determination either to sustain, modify, or overrule the enforcing officer's classification of the dog.
(Ord. of 3-11-2002, § 9-3-28(d); Ord. of 9-8-2008, § II(9-2-4(I)(2)(c))
Sec. 6-253. - Notice of determination.
Within ten days after the date of the hearing, the court shall notify the dog owner in writing by certified mail of its determination on the matter. If such determination is that the dog is a dangerous or potentially dangerous dog, the notice shall specify the date upon which the determination is effective, provided that the effective date shall be not less than ten days after the date of this order.
(Ord. of 3-11-2002, § 9-3-28(e); Ord. of 9-8-2008, § II(9-2-4(I)(2)(d))
Secs. 6-254—6-284. - Reserved.
DIVISION 3. - ENFORCEMENT

Sec. 6-285. - Investigation authorized.
The animal enforcement agent or police officer is authorized to make whatever inquiry is deemed necessary to ensure compliance with the provisions of this article. Law enforcement agencies of the city shall cooperate with the animal enforcement agent in enforcing the provisions of this article.
(Ord. of 3-11-2002, § 9-3-29(g))
Sec. 6-286. - Grounds for confiscation of dog.
(a)
Dangerous dogs. A dangerous dog shall be immediately confiscated by the animal enforcement agent or police officer or by any law enforcement officer or by any other person authorized by the animal enforcement agent or chief of police if the owner or custodian of the dog does not secure and maintain the required liability insurance or bond, the dog is not registered as required in this article, or the dog is not maintained in a proper enclosure or properly restrained outside a proper enclosure.
(b)
Potentially dangerous dogs. A potentially dangerous dog shall be confiscated in the same manner as a dangerous dog if the dog is not registered as required in this article or the dog is not maintained in a proper enclosure or properly restrained outside a proper enclosure.
(Ord. of 3-11-2002, § 9-3-31(b), (c))
Sec. 6-287. - Redemption.
(a)
Any dog that has been confiscated under this article shall be returned to its owner upon the owner's compliance with the provisions of this article and upon the payment of reasonable confiscation costs including a daily boarding fee, a pickup fee, and a rabies vaccination fee if the animal's owner does not produce proof of a current rabies vaccination. The amount of all fees shall be as set forth in the city fee schedule.
(b)
In the event the owner or custodian of a dangerous dog or potentially dangerous dog has not complied with the provisions of this article within 20 days of the date the dog's classification as a dangerous dog or potentially dangerous dog, as the case may be, becomes final or, in the case of a dog previously so classified, 20 days of the date the dog was confiscated, the dog shall be destroyed in an expeditious and humane manner in accordance with state law; provided, however, upon a showing of good cause, the city may extend said time, for up to an additional 15-day period, upon the payment by the owner of the per diem boarding costs for said dog.
(Ord. of 3-11-2002, § 9-3-31(c); Ord. of 9-8-2008, § II(9-2-4(I)(4)(a))
Sec. 6-288. - Penalties for violation.
(a)
Fine and imprisonment. In addition to any other penalties imposed by state law, the owner of a dangerous dog or potentially dangerous dog who violates the provisions of this article or whose dangerous dog or potentially dangerous dog is subject to confiscation under this article shall be subject to penalties as provided in section 1-14.
(b)
Confiscation, quarantine and destruction of dog. In addition, the dangerous dog involved shall be immediately confiscated by the animal enforcement agent or police officer or another person authorized by the animal enforcement agent or chief of police and placed in quarantine for the proper length of time as determined by the county board of health, and, thereafter, the dangerous dog shall be destroyed in an expeditious and humane manner.
(Ord. of 3-11-2002, §§ 9-3-31, 9-3-32; Ord. of 9-8-2008, § II(9-2-4(I)(4)(b))
Sec. 6-289. - Liability for damages.
Under no circumstance shall the city or any employee or official thereof who enforces or fails to enforce the provisions of this article be held liable for any damages to any person who suffers an injury inflicted by a dog:
(1)
That has been identified as being a dangerous or potentially dangerous dog;
(2)
That has been reported to the proper authorities as being a dangerous dog or potentially dangerous dog;
(3)
That city officials and employees have failed to identify as a dangerous dog or potentially dangerous dog;
(4)
That has been identified as being a dangerous dog or potentially dangerous dog but has not been kept or restrained in the manner described in this article; or
(5)
Whose owner has not maintained insurance coverage or a surety bond as required in this article.
(Ord. of 3-11-2002, § 9-3-33)
