ARTICLE V. - MALT BEVERAGE AND WINE
DIVISION 1. - RETAIL SALE—OFF-PREMISES CONSUMPTION (MALT BEVERAGES; WINE)

Sec. 6-76. - License required.
(a)
No person shall operate an establishment within the unincorporated areas of the county involving the retail sale of malt beverages for consumption off of the premises where sold without having first obtained a license pursuant to this chapter for such sales.
(b)
No person shall operate an establishment within the unincorporated areas of the county involving the retail sale of wine for consumption off of the premises where sold without having first obtained a license pursuant to this chapter for such sales.
(Ord. of 12-12-2016, art. V, § 5-1)
Sec. 6-77. - Unbroken packages to be sold.
A license issued pursuant to this chapter for the retail sale of beer or wine for consumption off of the premises where sold shall authorize the licensee to sell such beer and wine only in the original and unbroken package or packages. Such license shall not permit the breaking of the package or packages on the premises where sold and shall not permit the consumption of the contents of the package or packages on the premises where sold.
(Ord. of 12-12-2016, art. V, § 5-2)
Secs. 6-78—6-90. - Reserved.
DIVISION 2. - RETAIL SALE—CONSUMPTION ON-PREMISES (MALT BEVERAGES; WINE)

Sec. 6-91. - License required.
(a)
No person shall operate an establishment within the unincorporated areas of the county involving the retail sale of malt beverages for consumption on the premises where sold without having first obtained a license pursuant to this chapter for such sales. Such license shall only authorize and permit the retail sale of malt beverages for consumption only by the drink and only on the premises where sold.
(b)
No person shall operate an establishment within the unincorporated areas of the county involving the retail sale of wine for consumption on the premises where sold without having first obtained a license pursuant to this chapter for such sales. Such license shall only authorize and permit the retail sale of wine for consumption only by the drink and only on the premises where sold.
(Ord. of 12-12-2016, art. V, § 5-3)
Secs. 6-92—6-110. - Reserved.
DIVISION 3. - WHOLESALERS (MALT BEVERAGES; WINES)

Sec. 6-111. - License required.
(a)
No person shall engage in the distribution or sale at wholesale of malt beverages within the unincorporated areas of the county without having first obtained a license pursuant to this chapter for such distribution and sale.
(b)
No person shall engage in the distribution or sale at wholesale of wine within the unincorporated areas of the county without having first obtained a license pursuant to this chapter for such distribution and sale.
(Ord. of 12-12-2016, art. V, § 5-4)
Secs. 6-112—6-120. - Reserved.
