ARTICLE III. - DEFINITIONS; REFERENCES TO SECTIONS, ETC.

Sec. 6-36. - Definitions.
When used in this chapter, the following words, terms, and phrases, and their derivations shall have the meanings ascribed to them in this section, except where the context clearly indicates a different meaning:
Adult shall mean any individual 21 years of age or older.
Alcohol shall mean ethyl alcohol, hydrated oxide of ethyl, or spirits of wine, from whatever source or by whatever process produced.
Alcoholic beverage shall mean all consumable alcohol, distilled spirits, beer, malt beverage, wine, or fortified wine.
Alcoholic beverage catering license shall mean the license issued to a licensed alcoholic beverage caterer in accordance with O.C.G.A. § 3-11-2 by either (i) the county pursuant to section 6-151 and upon approval of an application pursuant to article IV, or (ii) a municipality or another county in Georgia.
Bar means any premises at which a retailer licensed pursuant to this title to sell alcoholic beverages derives 75 percent or more total annual gross revenue from the sale of alcoholic beverages for consumption on the premises.
Board of commissioners or board shall mean the Board of Commissioners of Ware County, Georgia.
Bona fide nonprofit civic organization shall mean an entity which is exempt from federal income tax pursuant to the provisions of subsections (c), (d), or (e) of 26 U.S.C. Section 501.
Bouncer means an individual primarily performing duties related to verifying age for admittance, security, maintaining order, or safety, or a combination thereof.
Brownbagging shall mean bringing onto and/or consuming upon any premises alcoholic beverages not lawfully purchased upon such premises.
Brownbagging establishment shall mean any business, commercial establishment, or other facility or location upon which the owner, lessee, operator, or their respective employees, agents, or representatives thereof allow, facilitate, permit, or participate in brownbagging upon its premises.
County shall mean Ware County, Georgia.
County manager shall mean the County Manager of Ware County, Georgia.
Department of Revenue or department shall mean the Georgia Department of Revenue.
Disciplinary action means any citation or arrest arising out of the violation of any law, rule, regulation, resolution, or ordinance of a governmental entity relating to the manufacture, distribution, sale, or possession of alcoholic beverages against a licensee, an employee of a licensee, or any person holding a financial interest in the license of the licensee on the premises or place of business of any licensee.
Distilled spirits shall mean any alcoholic beverage obtained by distillation or containing more than 21 percent alcohol by volume, including, but not limited to, all fortified wines.
Establishment shall mean any physical location involving the sale or distribution of alcoholic beverages in unincorporated Ware County.
Event permit shall mean the one-time, event-specific permit issued pursuant to section 6-152.
Finance director shall mean the Director of Finance of Ware County, Georgia.
Food caterer shall mean any person who prepares food for consumption off the premises.
Fortified wine shall mean any alcoholic beverage containing more than 21 percent alcohol by volume made from fruits, berries, or grapes either by natural fermentation or by natural fermentation with brandy added. The term includes, but is not limited to, brandy.
His, her, he, she, it, they, them, and their shall, as the context may require, include any other gender and the singular or the plural, for a proper reading.
Letter of authorization shall mean the letter of authorization issued pursuant to section 6-155.
License shall mean a license granted under this chapter to a licensee for the operation of an establishment in unincorporated Ware County for the sale or distribution, as the case may be, of the specific alcoholic beverage and manner of sale provided in such license.
Licensed alcoholic beverage caterer shall mean any retail dealer as defined in O.C.G.A. § 3-1-2(19) who has been licensed as provided in O.C.G.A. § 3-11-1(2).
Licensee shall mean the person to whom a particular valid license has been granted under this chapter.
Licensor shall mean the board of commissioners.
Malt beverage shall mean any alcoholic beverage obtained by the fermentation of any infusion or decoction of barley, malt, hops, or any other similar product, or any combination of such products in water, containing not more than 14 percent alcohol by volume and including ale, porter, brown, stout, lager beer, small beer, and strong beer. The term does not include sake, known as Japanese rice wine.
Minor shall mean any individual under 21 years of age.
Noise ordinance shall mean the county's ordinance to regulate noise in residential areas.
O.C.G.A. shall mean the Official Code of Georgia Annotated.
Person shall mean any individual, firm, partnership, cooperative, non-profit membership corporation, joint venture, association, company, corporation, agency, syndicate, estate, trust, business trust, receiver, fiduciary, or other group or combination acting as a unit, body politic, or a political subdivision, whether public, private, or quasi-public.
Powdered alcohol means a powdered or crystalline substance that contains any amount of alcohol for direct use or reconstitution.
Premises shall mean and include without limitation all or any portion of all buildings, structures, porches, decks, patios, and other improvements, together with all grounds, lawns, gardens, sidewalks, parking lots, and other outdoor areas, of or upon a property or location.
Private event shall mean a specific social, business, fraternal, or recreational event for which an entire building, room, hall or area, indoors or out of doors, is leased, rented, reserved, or otherwise obtained in advance by a person, entity, club, or other group, and at which attendance is limited to persons who are in advance specifically designated. A private event does not include an event to which the general public is invited or at which members of the general public are allowed to attend, whether or not an admission fee, cover charge, or minimum purchase is charged.
Restaurant means an eating establishment, which is licensed to sell distilled spirits, malt beverages, or wines and which derives at least 50 percent of its total annual gross food and beverage sales from the sale of prepared meals or food, including but not limited to, coffee shops, cafeterias, dining areas, sandwich stands, and private and public school cafeterias, which gives or offers for sale food to the public, guests, or employees, as well as kitchens and catering facilities in which food is prepared on the premises for serving elsewhere. The term restaurant includes an attached bar as defined in this section.
Retail consumption dealer shall mean any person who sells any alcoholic beverages for consumption on the premises where sold at retail only to consumers and not for resale.
Retailer or retail dealer shall mean any person who sells any alcoholic beverages in unbroken packages for consumption off of the premises where sold at retail only to consumers and not for resale.
Social host party, gathering, or event shall mean a group or gathering of three or more individuals at least two of whom are minors who have assembled or are assembling for any party, social occasion, or social activity.
State shall mean the State of Georgia.
Wholesaler or wholesale dealer shall mean any person who sells alcoholic beverages to other wholesale dealers, to retail dealers, or to retail consumption dealers.
Wine shall mean any alcoholic beverage containing not more than 21 percent alcohol by volume made from fruits, berries, or grapes either by natural fermentation or by natural fermentation with brandy added. The term includes, but is not limited to, all sparkling wines, champagnes, combinations of such beverages, vermouths, special natural wines, rectified wines, and like products. The term does not include cooking wine mixed with salt or other ingredients so as to render it unfit for human consumption as a beverage. A liquid shall first be deemed to be a wine at that point in the manufacturing process when it conforms to this definition.
(Ord. of 12-12-2016, art. III, § 3-1)
Sec. 6-37. - References to sections, etc.
Unless otherwise indicated herein, references in this chapter to sections, articles, paragraphs, appendices, etc. are to those of this chapter.
(Ord. of 12-12-2016, art. III, § 3-2)
Secs. 6-38—6-50. - Reserved.
