Chapter 1 - GENERAL PROVISIONS[1]

Footnotes:
--- (1) ---
State Law reference— Home rule power of counties, Ga. Const. art. IX, § II, ¶ I; construction of statutes, O.C.G.A. §§ 1-3-1 et seq.

Sec. 1-1. - How Code designated and cited.
(a)
The ordinances, resolutions and other enactments embraced in the following chapters and sections shall constitute and be designated as the "The Code of Ware County, Georgia," and may be so cited.
(b)
This entire compilation, consisting of Parts I and II, shall constitute and be designated the "The Code of Ware County, Georgia," or the "Ware County Code," and may be so cited.
(Code 1983, § 2-1-1)
State Law reference— Codification requirements, O.C.G.A. § 36-80-19.
Sec. 1-2. - Definitions and rules of construction.
In the construction of this Code of Ordinances, the following rules shall be observed, unless such construction would be inconsistent with the manifest intent of the board of commissioners:
Generally. In the interpretation and application of any provision of this Code, it shall be held to be the minimum requirements adopted for the promotion of the public health, safety, convenience and general welfare. Where any provision of the Code imposes greater restrictions upon the subject matter than the general provision imposed by this Code, the provision imposing the greater restriction or regulation shall be deemed to be controlling.
Chair, other officers and officials. Whenever the term "chair" is used it shall mean the chair of the board of commissioners of Ware County. Whenever titles of various officers or officials are used, they shall refer to the persons holding such positions with Ware County.
Code. The term "Code" means The Code of Ware County, Georgia
Commission, board, commissioners, board of commissioners, county commission, governing authority, governing body. Each such term shall mean the Board of Commissioners of Ware County, Georgia.
Computation of time. Except as otherwise provided by time period computations specifically applying to other laws, when a period of time measured in days, weeks, months, years, or other measurement of time except hours is prescribed for the exercise of any privilege or the discharge of any duty, the first day shall not be counted but the last day shall be counted; and, if the last day falls on Saturday or Sunday, the party having such privilege or duty shall have through the following Monday to exercise the privilege or to discharge the duty. When the last day prescribed for such action falls on a public and legal holiday as set forth in O.C.G.A. § 1-4-1, the party having the privilege or duty shall have through the next business day to exercise the privilege or to discharge the duty. When the period of time prescribed is less than seven days, intermediate Saturdays, Sundays, and legal holidays shall be excluded in the computation.
County. The terms "the county" or "this county" shall mean Ware County, Georgia.
Day. The term "day" means a calendar day of 24 hours.
Delegation of authority. Whenever a provision appears requiring the head of a department of the county to do some act or make certain inspections it is to be construed to authorize the head of the department to designate, delegate and authorize subordinates to perform the required act or make the required inspection unless the terms of the provision or section designate otherwise.
Gender. A word importing one gender shall extend and be applied to the other genders, if the context admits.
Joint authority. All words giving a joint authority to three or more persons or officers shall be construed as giving such authority to a majority of such persons or officers.
Keeper and proprietor. The terms "keeper" and "proprietor" shall mean and include persons, firms, associations, corporations, receivers, trustees, personal representatives, clubs and partnerships, whether acting by themselves or through a servant, agent or employee.
Month. The term "month" shall mean a calendar month.
Nontechnical and technical words. Words and phrases shall be construed according to the common and approved usage of the language; but technical words and phrases and such others as may have acquired a peculiar and appropriate meaning in law shall be construed and understood according to such meaning.
Number. A word importing the singular number only may extend and be applied to several persons and things as well as to one person and thing.
Oath. The term "oath" shall be construed to include an affirmation in all cases in which, by law, an affirmation may be substituted for an oath, and in such cases the terms "swear" and "sworn" shall be equivalent to the terms "affirm" and "affirmed."
O.C.G.A. The abbreviation "O.C.G.A." means the Official Code of Georgia, as amended.
Or, and. "Or" may be read "and," and "and" may be read "or," if the sense requires it.
Owner. The term "owner," applied to a building or land, shall include any part owner, joint owner, tenant in common or tenant in partnership, of the whole or of a part of such building or land.
Person. The term "person" shall extend and be applied to associations, clubs, societies, firms, partnerships and bodies politic and corporate as well as to individuals.
Personal property. The term "personal property" shall include every species of property except real property, as described in this section.
Preceding, following. The terms "preceding" and "following" shall mean next before and next after, respectively.
Premises. Whenever the term "premises" is used it shall mean place or places.
Property. The term "property" shall include real and personal property.
Public place. The term "public place" shall mean any park, cemetery, school yard or open space adjacent thereto, or any area available and/or accessible to the public, regardless of whether privately or publicly owned.
Real property. The term "real property" shall include lands, tenements and hereditaments.
Residence. The term "residence" shall be construed to mean the place adopted by a person as his place of habitation, and to which, whenever he is absent, he has the intention of returning. When a person eats at one place and sleeps at another, the place where such person sleeps shall be deemed his residence.
Seal. The term "seal" shall mean the county seal.
Sidewalk. The term "sidewalk" shall mean any portion of a street between the curbline and the adjacent property line, intended for the use of pedestrians, excluding parkways.
Signature or subscription. The "signature" or "subscription" of a person shall include a mark when the person cannot write.
State. The terms "state" or "the state" shall mean the State of Georgia.
Street. The term "street" shall be construed to embrace streets, avenues, boulevards, roads, alleys, lanes, viaducts and all other public highways in the county.
Tenant, occupant. The terms "tenant" or "occupant," applied to a building or land, shall include any person holding a written or oral lease or who occupies the whole or a part of such building or land, either alone or with others.
Time. Words used in the past or present tense include the future as well as the past and present.
Week. The term "week" shall be construed to mean a calendar week of seven days.
Written or in writing. The term "written" or "in writing" shall be construed to include any representation of words, letters or figures, whether by printing or otherwise.
Year. The term "year" shall mean a calendar year.
(Code 1983, § 2-1-2)
State Law reference— Similar provisions, O.C.G.A. §§ 1-3-1(d)(3), 1-3-2 and 1-3-3.
Sec. 1-3. - Catchlines of sections.
The catchlines of the several sections of this Code printed in boldface type are intended as mere catchwords to indicate the contents of the section and shall not be deemed or taken to be titles of such sections nor as any part of the section, nor unless expressly so provided shall they be so deemed when any of such sections, including the catchlines, are amended or reenacted.
(Code 1983, § 2-1-3)
Sec. 1-4. - Statutory definitions, etc.
The same rules shall be applied in construing provisions of this Code, and ordinances and resolutions of this county, as are applied in construing the statutes of this state, which rules are found in O.C.G.A. § 1-3-1, and the same meanings are to be given words found in the ordinances as are given similar words found in the statutes of this state.
(Code 1983, § 2-1-4)
Sec. 1-5. - Effective date of ordinances and resolutions.
Ordinances and resolutions which do not provide for their taking effect at a different time take effect immediately after their passage, or as otherwise provided by law.
(Code 1983, § 2-1-5)
Sec. 1-6. - Schedule of fees and charges.
This would be a new definition in this section. The term "schedule of fees and charges" shall mean the official consolidated list maintained in the county clerk's office which lists rates for occupation taxes, utility or other public enterprises, fees of any nature, deposit amounts and various charges as determined from time to time by the board of commissioners.
Sec. 1-7. - Effect of repeal of ordinances and resolutions.
(a)
The repeal of an ordinance or resolution shall not review any ordinances or resolutions in force before or at the time the ordinance repealed took effect.
(b)
The repeal of an ordinance or resolution shall not affect any punishment or penalty incurred before the repeal took effect, nor any suit, prosecution or proceeding pending at the time of the repeal, for an offense committed or cause of action arising under the ordinance or resolution repealed.
(Code 1983, § 2-1-6)
Sec. 1-8. - Severability.
It is the intention of the board of commissioners that the sections, paragraphs, sentences, clauses and phrases of this Code are severable, and if any phrase, clause, sentence, paragraph or section of this Code shall be declared unconstitutional by the valid judgment or decree of any court of competent jurisdiction, such unconstitutionality shall not affect any of the remaining phrases, clauses, sentences, paragraphs and sections of this Code, since the same would have been enacted by the board of commissioners without the incorporation in this Code of any such unconstitutional phrase, clause, sentence, paragraph or section.
(Code 1983, § 2-1-7)
Sec. 1-9. - Amendments; effect of new ordinances and resolutions; amendatory language.
(a)
All ordinances passed subsequent to this Code which amend, repeal or in any way affect this Code may be numbered in accordance with the numbering system of this Code and printed for inclusion herein. In the case of repealed chapters, sections and subsections or any part thereof, by subsequent ordinances and resolutions, such repealed portions may be excluded from the Code by omission from reprinted pages affected thereby. The subsequent ordinances and resolutions as numbered and printed or omitted, in the case of repeal, shall be prima facie evidence of such subsequent ordinances and resolutions until such time that this Code and subsequent ordinances numbered or omitted are readopted anew by the board of commissioners.
(b)
Amendments to any of the provisions of this Code may be made by amending such provisions by specific reference to the section number of this Code in the following language: "That section _______ of The Code of Ware County, Georgia, is hereby amended to read as follows: …" The new provisions may then be set out in full as desired.
(c)
In the event a new section not heretofore existing in the Code is to be added, the following language may be used: "That The Code of Ware County, Georgia, is hereby amended by adding a section (or article or chapter) to be numbered _______, which said section reads as follows:…" The new section may then be set out in full as desired.
(d)
All sections, articles, chapters or provisions desired to be repealed should be specifically repealed by section, article or chapter number, as the case may be.
(Code 1983, § 2-1-8)
Sec. 1-10. - Supplementation of Code.
(a)
By contract or by county personnel, supplements to this Code shall be prepared and printed whenever authorized or directed by the board of commissioners. A supplement to the Code shall include all substantive permanent and general parts of ordinances and resolutions adopted by the board of commissioners during the period covered by the supplement and all changes made thereby in the Code. The pages of a supplement shall be so numbered that they will fit properly into the Code and will, where necessary, replace pages which have become obsolete or partially obsolete, and the new pages shall be so prepared that, when they have been inserted, the Code will be current through the date of the adoption of the latest ordinance or resolution included in the supplement.
(b)
In preparing a supplement to this Code, all portions of the Code which have been repealed shall be excluded from the Code by the omission thereof from reprinted pages.
(c)
When preparing a supplement to this Code, the codifier (meaning the person, agency or organization authorized to prepare the supplement) may make formal, nonsubstantive changes in ordinances and resolutions and parts of ordinances and resolutions included in the supplement, insofar as it is necessary to do so to embody them into a unified code. For example, the codifier may:
(1)
Organize the ordinance and resolution material into appropriate subdivisions;
(2)
Provide appropriate catchlines, headings and titles for sections and other subdivisions of the Code printed in the supplement, and make changes in such catchlines, headings and titles;
(3)
Assign appropriate numbers to sections and other subdivisions to be inserted in the Code and, where necessary to accommodate new material, change existing section or other subdivision numbers;
(4)
Change the words "this ordinance" or "this resolution" or words of the same meaning to "this chapter," "this article," "this division," etc., as the case may be or to "sections _______ to _______" (inserting section numbers to indicate the sections of the Code which embody the substantive sections of the ordinance or resolution incorporated into the Code); and
(5)
Make other nonsubstantive changes necessary to preserve the original meaning of ordinance or resolution sections inserted into the Code; but, in no case, shall the codifier make any change in the meaning or effect of ordinance or resolution material included in the supplement or already embodied in the code.
(Code 1983, § 2-1-9)
Sec. 1-11. - Altering Code.
It shall be unlawful for any person to change or amend, by additions or deletions, any part or portion of this Code, or to insert or delete pages, or portions thereof, or to alter or tamper with such Code in any manner whatsoever (except by ordinance or resolution or other official act of the board of commissioners or the General Assembly) which will cause the law of the county to be misrepresented thereby.
(Code 1983, § 2-1-10)
Sec. 1-12. - Violations.
(a)
Whenever in this Code any act is prohibited or is made or declared to be unlawful or an offense, or whenever herein the doing of any act is required or the failure to do any act is declared to be unlawful, where no specific penalty is provided therefor, the violation of such provision shall be punishable as for a misdemeanor as provided by the laws of this state.
(b)
Each day during which any violation of this Code shall continue shall constitute a separate offense.
(c)
In addition to the penalties provided in this section, any condition caused or permitted to exist in violation of any of the provisions of this Code or any ordinance shall be deemed a public nuisance, and may be abated by the county as provided by law, and each day during which such condition continues shall be regarded as a new and separate offense.
(Code 1983, § 2-1-11)
State Law reference— Maximum punishment county authorized to impose, O.C.G.A. § 15-10-60 et seq.
Sec. 1-13. - Citation for violations.
County police are granted the authority to issue citations for violation of any county penal ordinance, said citation to direct any violator to be and appear at magistrate court for purpose of trial.
(Code 1983, § 2-1-12)
Sec. 1-14. - Ordinances not affected by Code.
(a)
Nothing in this Code or the ordinance adopting this Code shall be construed to repeal or otherwise affect the validity of any of the following:
(1)
Any offense or act committed or done or any penalty or forfeiture incurred or any contract or right established or accruing before the effective date of this Code.
(2)
Any ordinance or resolution promising or guaranteeing the payment of money for the county or authorizing the issuance of any bonds of the county or any evidence of the county's indebtedness.
(3)
Any contract or obligation assumed by the county.
(4)
Any ordinance fixing the salary of any county officer or employee.
(5)
Any right or franchise granted by the county.
(6)
Any ordinance dedicating, naming, establishing, locating, relocating, opening, widening, paving, etc., any street or public way in the county.
(7)
Any appropriation ordinance.
(8)
Any ordinance which, by its own terms, is effective for a stated or limited term.
(9)
Any ordinance regarding personnel and traffic schedules.
(10)
Any ordinance providing for local improvements and assessing taxes for such improvements.
(11)
Any subdivision, zoning ordinance.
(12)
Any ordinance dedicating or accepting any subdivision plat.
(13)
Any ordinance describing or altering the boundaries of the county.
(14)
Any administrative ordinances or resolutions of the county not in conflict or inconsistent with the provisions of this Code.
(15)
Any ordinance levying or imposing taxes not included in this Code.
(16)
Any ordinance establishing or prescribing street grades in the county.
(17)
Any ordinance setting the rate of ad valorem taxes.
(b)
No such ordinance shall be construed to revive any ordinance or part of an ordinance that has been repealed by a subsequent ordinance repealed by this chapter; and all such ordinances are recognized as continuing in full force and effect to the same extent as if set out at length in this Code.
State Law reference— Future operation of laws, O.C.G.A. § 1-3-5.
