ARTICLE IX. - VARIANCE PROCEDURES

9-1. - Authorization.
modified
The Board of Commissioners may grant a variance of the development standards of this Regulation, except minimum lot area requirements, when it is in harmony with the general purpose and intent of this Regulation. A variance may only be granted in the specific instances hereinafter set forth; upon findings of fact based upon the standards hereinafter prescribed demonstrating that there are practical difficulties or particular hardships obstructing compliance with the strict letter of these regulations; and that the granting of a variance will not merely serve as a convenience to the applicant, but is necessary to alleviate some demonstrated hardship or difficulty which is unique to the property in question and not created by the applicant.
(Ord. of 8-3-2022)
9-2. - Applications and submission requirements.
Application for variances shall be filed with the Board of Commissioners upon forms provided by the Board of Commissioners, together with payment of a fee as established by the Board to cover the advertising and processing costs. A court ordered easement is exempt from the fees. The application shall contain sufficient information to allow the Board of Commissioners to make an informed decision, and shall include, at a minimum, the following:
a.
Name and address of the applicant;
b.
The characteristics of the subject property which prevent compliance with the requirements of this Regulation;
c.
The particular hardship which would result if the specified requirements of this Regulation were applied to the subject property;
d.
A preliminary plat depicting the variance requested and any pertinent information necessary for the Board of Commissioners to render a decision.
9-3. - Procedures for consideration of a variance.
a.
An application for a Variance shall be filed with the Board of Commissioners at least thirty (30) days in advance of a regularly scheduled Public Hearing of the Board of Commissioners.
b.
The Board of Commissioners shall cause to be published, at least fifteen (15), but not more than forty-five (45) days, prior to the date of the Public Hearing, within a newspaper of general circulation within the territorial boundaries of the County, a Public Notice of the Public Hearings and a Public Notice Sign on the subject property.
c.
The decision rendered by the Board of Commissioners regarding the proposed variance shall be deemed to be the final action on the application and said final action shall be completed prior to application for preliminary plat approval.
9-4. - Standards for variances.
The Board of Commissioners shall not grant a variance as authorized herein unless it shall, in each case, make specific findings of fact directly based upon the particular evidence presented to it in the application and public hearing that support all of the following conclusions:
a.
The variance requested arises from a condition which is unique to the property in question and which is not ordinarily found in the same area and is not created by an action or actions of the property owners or the applicant;
b.
The granting of the variance shall not adversely affect the rights of adjacent property owners or residents;
c.
The strict application of the provisions of this Regulation, from which a variance is requested, will cause severe practical difficulty or extreme hardship for the property owner represented in this application;
d.
The variance desired will not adversely affect the public health, safety, order, convenience or general welfare of the community;
e.
Granting the variance desired will not violate the general spirit and intent of this Regulation.
9-5. - Recording of variances.
A record of every variance granted shall be kept by the Grady County Code Enforcement Office for reference. The property owner's name, address and property location as well as the individual circumstances and reasons for granting each variance shall be recorded in the variance log.
9-6. - Reapplication time requirement.
If an application for a Variance is denied by the Board of Commissioners, no application or reapplication for the same variance may be considered on the same property by the Board of Commissioners until the expiration of at least six (6) months immediately following the denial action of the application by the Board of Commissioners has occurred.
9-7. - Appellate procedure.
If a variance application is denied by the Grady County Board of Commissioners, the Board of Commissioners shall send the applicant by registered/certified mail a written decision on final action including the appellate procedure. Any person or persons, who may have a substantial interest in any decision of the Board of Commissioners, may appeal said final decision to the Superior Court of Grady County, Georgia. Such appeal shall be filed with the Clerk of said court by filing a notice of appeal in writing setting forth plainly, fully and distinctly herein such decision is contrary to law. Such notice of appeal shall be filed within thirty (30) days after the decision of the Board of Commissioners is rendered. A copy of the notice of appeal shall be served on the Grady County Clerk of the Grady County Superior Court shall give immediate notice thereof to the Grady County clerk and within thirty (30) days from the time of such notice, shall file with said Clerk of Superior Court, a duly certified copy of the minutes of the proceedings of the Board of Commissioners Public Hearing and the decision reached by the Board of Commissioners (Amended August 6, 1991).
