ARTICLE VIII. - ROAD CONSTRUCTION AND DESIGN STANDARDS

8-1. - Roads/streets.
The street and road system of any proposed subdivision shall give due consideration to the public road system of Grady County. Standard Plan shall conform to the current DOT standard for the road construction. (See [Article VII of this] Appendix) The Grady County Road Superintendent prior the final plat approval shall approve all road construction.
8-2. - Access.
Every lot of every subdivision shall have adequate access to a public street which is or shall be maintained by the County or State of Georgia. Where the subdivision does not immediately adjoin a public road, the owner/agent shall provide access from the subdivision to a public road. Private roads may be permitted only upon the terms and conditions set forth within these subdivision regulations
8-3. - Alignment and continuation.
Roads within a subdivision shall be so arranged as to provide for the alignment and continuation of or projection of existing public streets, where feasible (Illustration 2, Appendix A).
8-4. - Dead-end roads.
Permanent dead-end streets and alleys shall be prohibited. Subdivisions that are developed in phases and show streets to be completed at a later date must provide for a temporary unpaved turn-around at the end of a paved street having a roadway diameter of at least fifty (50) feet (Illustration 4, Appendix A).
8-5. - Intersections.
The center lines of no more than two (2) streets shall intersect at any one point. No street nor its center line tangent shall intersect another street at less than sixty (60) degrees and shall, as nearly as possible, intersect at ninety (90) degrees (Illustration 5, Appendix A).
8-6. - Curb-radius.
The curb radius at street intersections shall be no less than twenty (20) feet except on major arterial streets where Georgia Highway standards shall prevail.
8-7. - Cul-de-sacs.
Cul-de-sacs shall not be greater in length than two-thousand five hundred (2,500) feet and shall be provided at the closed end with a turnaround (Illustration 3, Appendix A). No more than four (4) building lots on a cul-de-sac. The setback line must meet lot width requirements.
8-8. - Street jogs.
Street jogs at intersections shall be not less than one hundred and twenty-five (125) feet between center line offsets (Illustration 6, Appendix A).
8-9. - Street names.
The Grady County Board of Commissioners shall maintain an up-to-date listing of all county roads, and streets. The owner/agent will refer to this listing when including the proposed name or number of all streets on the subdivision plat. A name once used, shall not be repeated elsewhere within the County, even with a different suffix, i.e., Grady Street—Grady Circle—Grady Way. The names of all new streets within the subdivision shall be subject to the approval of the Planning Commission and County Commission.
8-10. - Street right-of-way and pavement width.
Street rights-of-way shall be measured between lot lines and shall be prescribed in this section. In obtaining minimum right-of-way, the owner/agent may dedicate easements for utility construction, such that easements when added to the right-of-way equal minimum requirements shown below:
EXPAND
Street Classification Minimum Right-of-Way (In Feet) Minimum Pavement Width
Major 80 24
Collector (without curb and gutter 70 22
Collector (with curb and gutter) 60 22
Residential (without curb and gutter) 60 20
Residential (with curb and gutter) 50 20
Cul-de-sac 50 Radia 20
  8-11. - Additional right-of-way.
If a proposed subdivision lies adjacent to the right-of-way of an existing street of which street is less than the County's minimum right-of-way width, a minimum of one-half (½) the required extra width shall be dedicated by the subdivider.
8-12. - Service access.
Paved service access lanes shall be provided in areas designed or intended for commercial and industrial development.
8-13. - Easements.
Utility easements for both underground and overhead services shall be a minimum width of fifteen (15) feet. Wherever public utility easements are planned adjacent to the subdivision tract boundary or phase, they should be platted within said subdivision or phase thereof. Easements, when located next to a roadway, shall be ten (10) feet in width.
8-14. - Drainage.
Drainage easements shall be required by the County.
8-15. - Drainage structure and pipe.
All drainage structures or pipe shall be of standard strength and design and of sufficient size. Eighteen (18) inch or smaller side drainpipe shall have a fill or cover not less than twelve (12) inches thick. Side drains larger than eighteen (18) inches in diameter shall have a fill or cover of not less than eighteen (18) inches. All cross drains must be eighteen (18) inches or larger and have a fill or cover of twelve—eighteen (12—18) inches. All side drains must be fifteen (15) inches or larger and have a fill or cover of twelve—eighteen (12—18) inches.
8-16. - Side ditches.
Side ditches shall have the minimum depth and slopes shown on the Standard Plan. (See [Article VIII of this] Appendix.)
8-17. - Outfall ditches.
Outfall ditches, where required, shall be approved by the County Road Superintendent.
8-18. - Bases of roads.
Bases of roads or streets shall be formed of suitable material containing no mulch, vegetable matter or other deleterious material and must be approved by the County Road Superintendent before the surface is paved.
8-19. - Road, crown, slope width and ditch depth.
The width of the road, crown, slopes and the depth of ditches shall meet the minimum requirements shown in the "Standard Plan" which are incorporated herein and copies of which are available from the County Road Superintendent.
8-20. - Roads or streets, paving required.
All roads or streets within a new subdivision must be paved.
8-21. - Pavement standards.
Pavement shall conform to standard practice indicated in the DOT requirements Standard Plan and shall consist of material approved by the County Road Superintendent.
8-22. - Base material inspection.
Inspection of the base material by the County Road Superintendent will be required before priming operation or depositing of paving material.
8-23. - Grassing required for front slopes and shoulders.
The front slopes and shoulders of all roads or streets shall be planted with live sod, seeded, sprigs or turfs of Bermuda grass. The planted area shall contain a seventy-five (75) percent stand of live grass before final acceptance.
8-24. - Width of grassed shoulder.
The width of grassed portion of each shoulder shall not be less than four (4) feet from margin of ditch-top front slope.
8-25. - Wire crossings.
Wire crossings at all bridges and culverts shall conform to the minimum measurements and pole locations as required by the County.
8-26. - Pole lines.
Pole lines parallel to the right-of-way road shall be located at the rear of the back slope.
8-27. - Blocks, non-residential.
Blocks for other than residential use shall be of such length and width as may be suitable for their prospective use, including adequate provision for off-street parking and maneuvering space.
8-28. - Residential.
The length of residential blocks shall not exceed two-thousand five hundred (2,500) feet measured from interior street right-of-way lines nor less than three hundred (300) feet.
