Chapter 12 - CIVIL EMERGENCIES[1]
Footnotes:
--- (1) ---
State Law reference— Georgia Mutual Aid Act, O.C.G.A. § 36-69-1 et seq.; Georgia Emergency Management Act of 1981, O.C.G.A. § 38-3-1 et seq.; Emergency Management Assistance Compact, O.C.G.A. § 38-3-80 et seq.

ARTICLE I. - IN GENERAL

Secs. 12-1—12-18. - Reserved.
ARTICLE II. - EMERGENCY MANAGEMENT

Sec. 12-19. - Definitions.
(a)
The following words, terms and phrases, when used in this article, shall have the meanings ascribed to them in this section, except where the context clearly indicates a different meaning:
Emergency management means the preparation for and the carrying out of all emergency and disaster functions other than those functions for which military forces or state and federal agencies are primarily responsible, to prevent, minimize, and repair injury and damage resulting from emergencies or disasters, or the imminent threat thereof, of manmade or natural origin. These functions include, without limitation, firefighting services, police services, medical and health services, rescue, engineering, warning services, communications, protection against the effects of radiological, chemical and other special weapons, evacuation of persons from stricken areas, emergency welfare services, emergency transportation, plant protection, shelter, temporary restoration of public utility services, and other functions related to civilian population, together with all other activities necessary or incidental to total emergency and disaster preparedness for carrying out the foregoing functions.
(b)
The definitions set forth in O.C.G.A. § 38-3-3 (Emergency Management—Definitions), shall be effective as definitions of the words, terms and phrases used in this article. All words, terms and phrases used herein, other than those specifically defined elsewhere in this article, shall have the respective meanings ascribed to them in O.C.G.A. § 38-3-3, and shall have the same scope and effect that the same words, terms and phrases have where used in O.C.G.A. § 38-3-3.
(Code 1994, § 20-31; Res. of 8-18-1992, § I)
Sec. 12-20. - Emergency management director.
In agreement with the governing officials of the cities within the county, there is hereby established the county emergency management agency. The chairperson, county commissioners, with concurrence of the mayors of cities within the county, shall nominate for appointment by the governor, a director of emergency management for the entire county. When appointed, the emergency management director is charged with the following duties:
(1)
Represent the governing officials of the county and cities therein on matters pertaining to emergency management.
(2)
Assist county and city officials in organizing county and city departments for emergency operations.
(3)
Develop, in conjunction with county and city departments, the county plan for emergency functions set forth in section 12-19. Such plan will be in consonance with the natural disaster operations plan and nuclear emergency operations plan and shall be submitted to the governing officials of the county and the cities therein for approval, and thence to the state emergency management agency for approval.
(4)
Maintain the emergency management agency and carry out the day-to-day administration of the county emergency management program, including the submission of required reports to the state emergency management agency.
(5)
Submit reports as required by governing officials in keeping with good management practices, e.g., financial, daily activity, etc.
(6)
Obtain, with the authority of governing officials, a facility to be used as the county emergency operating center.
(7)
Coordinate the activities of the county emergency operating center staff during periods of an emergency, and under the supervision of county governing officials.
(Code 1994, § 20-32; Res. of 8-18-1992, § II)
Sec. 12-21. - Assignment of emergency functions.
(a)
The county emergency management agency shall be established around existing county and city departments and the emergency functions listed in section 12-19 are assigned as follows:
EXPAND
Department/Agency Functions
Chairperson, county commissioners
Mayors of cities Direction and control
Sheriff's office
Police department Communications and warning
Police services
Evacuation
Emergency management agency Public information
State military support
Training
Preliminary damage assessment and reporting
Public property assistance
Attack preparedness
Specific hazards
Fire department Search, rescue and recovery
Fire services
Hazardous materials
Radiological protection
Public works Engineering
Petroleum and solid fuel services
Utilities
School superintendent Transportation services
Food services
Health department Health and medical services
Clerk's office Administrative services
Resources management
Department of family and children services Social services
Shelter and temporary housing
  (b)
Heads of departments listed above are responsible for developing appropriate annexes to the local emergency operations plan (EOP) for their assigned emergency functions. Such annexes will be submitted to the emergency management director for inclusion in the local EOP for submission to appropriate local officials for approval.
(Code 1994, § 20-33; Res. of 8-18-1992, § III)
Sec. 12-22. - Powers during an emergency or disaster.
In the event of manmade or natural disaster, actual enemy attack upon the United States, or any other emergency which may affect the lives and property of the citizens of the county, the chairperson, county commissioners, jointly with the mayors of the affected cities, or in their absences their legally appointed successors, may determine that an emergency or disaster exists and thereafter shall have and may exercise for such period as such emergency or disaster exists or continues, the powers to:
(1)
Enforce all rules, laws and regulations relating to emergency management, and to assume direct operational control over all emergency management resources.
(2)
Seize or take for temporary use, any private property for the protection of the public.
(3)
Sell, lend, give, or distribute all or any such property or supplies among the inhabitants of the county and to maintain a strict accounting of property or supplies distributed and for funds received for such property or supplies.
(4)
Perform and exercise such other functions and duties and take such emergency actions as may be necessary to promote and secure the safety, protection and well-being of the inhabitants of the county.
(Code 1994, § 20-34; Res. of 8-18-1992, § IV)
Sec. 12-23. - Volunteers.
All persons, other than officers and employees of the county and cities therein, performing emergency functions pursuant to this article, shall serve with or without compensation. While engaged in such emergency functions, duly assigned volunteers shall have the same immunities as county and city officers and employees.
(Code 1994, § 20-35; Res. of 8-18-1992, § V)
Sec. 12-24. - Penalty.
Any person violating any provision of this article, or any rule, order, or regulation made pursuant to this article, shall, upon conviction thereof, be punished as provided in section 1-12.
(Code 1994, § 20-36; Res. of 8-18-1992, § VI)
Secs. 12-25—12-51. - Reserved.
ARTICLE III. - EMERGENCY TELEPHONE NUMBER "911" SYSTEM

Sec. 12-52. - Service charge imposed.
The imposition of the monthly service charge for the county's emergency telephone number 911 system is in the sum of $1.50 per exchange access facility provided to each telephone subscriber within the county.
(Code 1994, § 20-51; Res. of 9-15-1992; Res. of 2-2-1993)
