Chapter 22 - MANUFACTURED HOMES AND TRAVEL TRAILERS[1]
Footnotes:
--- (1) ---
State Law reference— Factory built buildings and dwelling units, O.C.G.A. § 8-2-110 et seq.; The Uniform Standards Code for Manufactured Homes Act, O.C.G.A. § 8-2-130 et seq.; tourist courts, O.C.G.A. § 31-28-1 et seq.; manufacture, sale and transport of mobile homes, O.C.G.A. § 40-2-38; taxation of mobile homes, O.C.G.A. § 48-5-490 et seq.; excise tax on rooms, lodgings and accommodations, O.C.G.A. § 48-13-50 et seq.

ARTICLE I. - IN GENERAL

Sec. 22-1. - Short title.
This chapter shall be known and may be referred to as the county manufactured home and travel trailer regulations.
(Ord. of 11-18-1992, § 3.1-1)
Sec. 22-2. - Authority.
This chapter is adopted under authority of art. IX, § II, ¶ IV, of the state constitution.
(Ord. of 11-18-1992, § 3.1-2)
Sec. 22-3. - Jurisdiction.
This chapter shall govern the location and occupancy of manufactured homes and travel trailers, the design and improvement of manufactured home rental communities and subdivisions for manufactured homes, within the unincorporated areas of the county. Notwithstanding any other provisions hereof, this chapter shall not be deemed to apply to manufactured homes or travel trailers so long as the same are on a sales lot or one the premises of a manufactured home manufacturer and are not occupied as residences.
(Ord. of 11-18-1992, § 3.1-3)
Sec. 22-4. - Definitions.
The following words, terms and phrases, when used in this chapter, shall have the meanings ascribed to them in this section, except where the context clearly indicates a different meaning:
Accessory structure of use means a detached building or parcel of land necessary as an adjunct to the establishment of a manufactured home rental community or manufactured home subdivision and services rendered to its occupants. The term "accessory structure of use" shall refer to travel trailers when in storage on a residential lot.
Adjoining property line means the boundary between a manufactured home rental community, manufactured home subdivision or a site occupied by a manufactured home, and property in another ownership and shall, for the purposes of this chapter, include street, railroad or utility right-of-way.
Alteration means the relocation of manufactured homes within a development of any change in the exterior dimensions of accessory structures; also, the term "alteration" means any changes to an approved plot plan.
Building permit means a duly authorized form signed by the official authorizing the location of a manufactured home or the construction of an accessory structure.
Cabana means a semi-permanent addition to a manufactured home, measuring no greater than 900 square feet.
Expansion means the enlargement of a manufactured home rental community by the provision of further utility and road improvements or the addition of manufactured homes or travel trailers to a development, in excess of the number of improved sites existing at the time of adoption of the ordinance from which this chapter is derived.
Manufactured home (formerly known as "mobile homes") means a detached single-family dwelling unit, designed for long-term occupancy, which normally has been prefabricated and then transported to its site or to a sales lot on its own wheels, on a detachable undercarriage, or on a flatbed or other trailer conveyance and requires only minor work before occupancy, such as connection to utilities or a foundation. Such a dwelling shall be constructed in accordance with the Federal Manufactured Home Construction and Safety Standard, which came into effect on June 15, 1976, and shall bear an insignia issued by the U.S. Department of Housing and Urban Development (HUD). Units manufactured before this date are subject to the provisions of this chapter but are not required to meet these HUD standards.
Manufactured home pad means that portion of a manufactured home stand equal to the length and width of the manufactured home placed on the stand.
Manufactured home rental communities (formerly known, variously, as "mobile home parks," "trailer parks" or "trailer courts") means a single tract of land with more than two manufactured homes and, under some conditions, travel trailers.
Manufactured home stand means the site designed for the placement of a manufactured home and its cabana, accessory structures, utility connections and off-street parking facilities.
Manufactured home subdivision means a subdivision of land intended for the sale of lots to individuals for the placement and occupancy of manufactured homes.
Rural manufactured home site means a privately-owned site in the unincorporated areas of the county designated for the establishment of a single manufactured home stand.
Travel trailer means a structure designed to be towed by a motor vehicle, such structure being not more than eight feet in width when portable, and being designed as a temporary dwelling for travel, recreation or vacation uses. For the purposes of the term "travel trailer," motor homes and motor coaches are included herein.
Usable area means the net usable portion of a lot, tract, or stand, not including any additional property within the legal boundaries of the parcel which by virtue of permanent or seasonal inundation by surface water, crossing by rights-of-way or easements, steep slopes, and the like, is not suitable for the construction of habitable structures or drain fields.
(Ord. of 11-18-1992, § 3.1-4; Ord. of 3-16-1993, § 1; Ord. of 3-6-2018)
Secs. 22-5—22-26. - Reserved.
ARTICLE II. - GENERAL REQUIREMENTS

Sec. 22-27. - Application.
Any occupied manufactured home located within the unincorporated areas of the county shall be located within a manufactured home rental community, a manufactured home subdivision or on an approved rural manufactured home site meeting the requirements and minimum standards set forth herein. All manufactured homes shall additionally meet the general requirements set forth in this article.
(Ord. of 11-18-1992, § 3.2-1)
Sec. 22-28. - Required certification.
No new manufactured home shall be admitted to any manufactured home rental community, rural manufactured home site, or subdivision unless it can be demonstrated that it meets the requirements of the Department of Housing and Urban Development (HUD) and is constructed in conformance with the Federal Manufactured Home Construction and Safety Standard which came into effect on June 15, 1976, and bears an insignia issued by HUD certifying such conformance. Manufactured homes constructed prior to the effective date of the above standards shall bear the mobile home manufacturers association and trailer coach association (MHMA-TCA) seal. Accessory structures shall require a building permit.
(Ord. of 11-18-1992, § 3.2-2)
Sec. 22-29. - Required decals.
All manufactured homes in the county, exclusive of a sales or manufacturers lot, shall be affixed with a current decal issued by the county tax commissioner. Decals provided for each calendar year shall expire on December 31 of that year. After January 1 of each year and upon payment of all taxes due on the manufactured home, a decal for the new year will be provided for attachment to the manufactured home. After April 1 of each year, a delinquency fee plus a percentage of the amount of taxes due on that manufactured home will be assessed as stated in the county fee schedule in amounts to be determined by the board by resolution from time to time, in addition to the normal taxes due for that calendar year. Manufactured homes with undercarriage removed and attached to a foundation or slab will not require the display of a decal but will be taxed in the same manner as any other residence or building.
(Ord. of 11-18-1992, § 3.2-3)
Sec. 22-30. - Inspection.
(a)
Manufactured home rental community. It shall be the responsibility of the county code enforcement officer to inspect all units being placed within the confines of the development prior to the placement of the manufactured home on its stand and the connection of utility services and occupancy of the manufactured home. Annually, the county code enforcement officer, at his convenience, shall inspect each manufactured home rental community within the unincorporated areas of the county and the manufactured homes within these developments to determine compliance with these regulations.
(b)
Subdivisions and rural sites. Manufactured homes placed within subdivisions or on rural sites shall be inspected and permitted as required by the county subdivision regulations.
(Ord. of 11-18-1992, § 3.2-4)
Sec. 22-31. - Conformance to state and county health requirements.
Prior to the allowance of permanent occupancy of any manufactured home within the unincorporated areas of the county, such manufactured home shall be connected with an approved water source and an approved sewage disposal method. In order to secure approval, these facilities must comply with the applicable requirements of either the state department of human resources (DHR) for individual units (i.e., individual wells and septic tanks) or the state department of natural resources (DNR) for central community systems. The requirements for individual systems are set out in O.C.G.A. § 31-3-1 et seq., and in any relevant regulations published by a state agency.
(Ord. of 11-18-1992, § 3.2-5)
Sec. 22-32. - Regulations of occupancy.
Occupancy of a manufactured home within the jurisdiction of this article shall as follows:
(1)
Manufactured home rental community. In the event a manufactured home is placed in a manufactured home rental community, it shall conform to the approved arrangements for its site with respect to location, utilities and registration. It shall be the responsibility of the county code enforcement officer to inspect the installation of the manufactured home prior to allowing its occupancy. It shall be the development operator's responsibility to maintain a dated logbook for each manufactured home within the development, indicating the name of the occupants, its vehicle license, if so equipped, and whether it has a MHMA or TCA seal. Such records shall be available for inspection by the county code enforcement officer.
(2)
Manufactured home subdivision. In the event a manufactured home is place within a manufactured home subdivision, a building permit shall be required prior to the placement of the home on its foundation or the connection of utilities.
(3)
Rural manufactured home sites. Occupancy of a manufactured home is permitted, provided that each manufactured home is placed on a site.
(Ord. of 11-18-1992, § 3.2-6)
Secs. 22-33—22-52. - Reserved.
ARTICLE III. - TRAVEL TRAILERS

Sec. 22-53. - Application.
Any travel trailer located with the unincorporated areas of the county shall meet the requirements of this article.
(Ord. of 11-18-1992, § 3.3-1)
Sec. 22-54. - Occupancy.
(a)
The residential occupancy of a travel trailer shall be limited to 60-day occupancy of sites specifically designed for travel trailers within manufactured home rental communities; recreation sites or areas on state-, company-, county- or municipally-owned land which have traditionally been used as camping sites or which are specifically reserved in the future for such recreational pursuits; or private lots which are hereafter designed for and restricted to recreational or vacation use.
(b)
When a travel trailer is located on a lot in a residential subdivision, it shall not be utilized as a residence or occupied permanently by household members, their guests, or as a rental unit.
(Ord. of 11-18-1992, § 3.3-2)
Sec. 22-55. - Storage.
Travel trailers, when located on a residential lot, shall be located at least ten feet from any residence, unless stored within a portion of the dwelling or accessory structure. Storage on public rights-of-way is hereby prohibited.
(Ord. of 11-18-1992, § 3.3-3)
Sec. 22-56. - Health.
In the event that a trailer is occupied as a temporary residence and its plumbing facilities are in use, the trailer shall be provided with an approved water source and an approved sewerage disposal method complying with the requirements of the county department of health.
(Ord. of 11-18-1992, § 3.3-4)
Secs. 22-57—22-85. - Reserved.
ARTICLE IV. - MANUFACTURED HOME RENTAL COMMUNITIES; GENERAL REQUIREMENTS

Sec. 22-86. - Application.
All manufactured home rental communities within the unincorporated areas of the county shall conform to the minimum requirements set forth herein.
(Ord. of 11-18-1992, § 3.4-1)
Sec. 22-87. - Preexisting manufactured home developments.
All manufactured home rental communities existing at the adoption of the ordinance from which this article is derived, are hereby declared to be conforming and shall be allowed to continue to exist and operate as presently designed and improved until expanded or abandoned, However, such manufactured home developments shall at all times conform to minimum health and sanitation codes of the county and the state.
(Ord. of 11-18-1992, § 3.4-2)
Sec. 22-88. - Plat required.
From and after the adoption of the ordinance from which this article is derived, each new or expanded manufactured home rental community development shall be presented in plan form for approval by the county planning commission and shall conform to the minimum design and improvement standards required herein.
(Ord. of 11-18-1992, § 3.4-3)
Sec. 22-89. - Public street access.
No new manufactured home rental community shall be developed within the county unless the street giving access thereto has been accepted as a public street, or unless such street has obtained the status of a public street prior to the effective date of the ordinance from which this article is derived.
(Ord. of 11-18-1992, § 3.4-4)
Sec. 22-90. - Suitability of land.
Land which the planning commission finds to be unsuitable for a manufactured home rental community development due to flooding, improper drainage, topography, utility easement or other features shall not be developed unless adequate provision can be made for correcting any unsuitable conditions.
(Ord. of 11-18-1992, § 3.4-5)
Sec. 22-91. - Expansion of existing manufactured home rental communities.
A person, firm, or corporation desiring to expand an existing manufactured home rental community to include more manufactured home sites than are accommodated within such development at the adoption date of the ordinance from which this article is derived shall submit plans and specifications for such improvements to the county planning commission for approval prior to initiating construction and improvements. Improvements, reconstruction and redesign of existing developments required by the planning commission shall conform to these regulations and shall be limited to those necessary to make access, utility service and design of both old and new portion of the development compatible.
(Ord. of 11-18-1992, § 3.4-6)
Sec. 22-92. - Conformance to standards for public health and environmental protection.
The developer, insofar as such regulations may pertain to his particular project, is responsible for meeting all applicable federal, state, and county regulations concerning the provision of safe drinking water, sewage treatment, erosion and sedimentation control, mosquito control, and impacts on wetlands and waters of the state.
(Ord. of 11-18-1992, § 3.4-7)
Sec. 22-93. - Variance procedure.
Where, because of topographical or other conditions peculiar to the site, strict adherence to the provisions of this article would cause an unnecessary hardship, the planning commission may authorize a variance, if such variance can be made without destroying the intent of the manufactured home and travel trailer regulations. Variances must be entered in writing in the minutes of the planning commission and the reason for said variance set forth.
(Ord. of 11-18-1992, § 3.4-8)
Secs. 22-94—22-114. - Reserved.
ARTICLE V. - MANUFACTURED HOME RENTAL COMMUNITIES; PLATTING PROCEDURE, REQUIREMENTS AND CERTIFICATION

Sec. 22-115. - Review and approval of plats.
The submission, distribution, review and approval of preliminary and final plats for proposed new (or expansions to existing) manufactured home rental communities shall be conducted in accordance with the county subdivision regulations, except for modified plat requirements for manufactured home developments which are set out in the sections of this article.
(Ord. of 11-18-1992, § 3.5-1)
Sec. 22-116. - Recommended sketch plan.
It is recommended that the developer present a sketch plan of the proposed manufactured home rental community (or additions to existing developments) for initial review by the planning commission and appropriate county departments. The sketch plan should contain the following data:
(1)
Type of development;
(2)
Approximate tract boundaries and total acreage;
(3)
Approximate location with respect to land lot lines;
(4)
Existing streets on and adjacent to the tract;
(5)
Proposed general internal street layout;
(6)
Significant topographic, physical and historic features;
(7)
Generalized existing vegetation; and
(8)
Proposed general layout and total number of stands.
(Ord. of 11-18-1992, § 3.5-2)
Sec. 22-117. - Preliminary plat requirements.
The preliminary plat may be a sketch of approximate accuracy and of a legible scale, made directly on a print of a boundary survey. The plat shall include the following information:
(1)
Proposed manufactured home rental community name or identifying title and total acres.
(2)
Name of owner of the development or his authorized agent, if any.
(3)
The names of all owners of all land adjacent to the proposed development.
(4)
A vicinity map at a scale of not less than one inch equals two miles showing the location of the proposed development.
(5)
Street names, right-of-way and roadway width data for any adjacent public streets and all private streets to be included in the development.
(6)
Location of utilities, and other types of easements.
(7)
Stand boundary lines, stand numbers (consecutively numbered of lettered), stand sizes, areas reserved for common use, etc.
(8)
Topographic maps of all land to be developed, with a two-foot contour interval, or where deemed appropriate by the planning commission, a one foot contour interval.
(9)
Minimum stand setback lines.
(10)
Numerical scale, graphic scale, north arrow, date.
(11)
All elevations shall be based on sea level datum as determined from geodetic control monuments or U.S. Geological Survey 7½ minimum quad sheets.
(12)
Delineation of all areas of the proposed development which lie within established Federal Emergency Management Agency (FEMA) floodplains and/or state jurisdiction wetlands.
(13)
Soil characteristics. Where the proposed development is not to be served by a public or community sewerage system, information on soil types and capabilities, frequency and evaluation of seasonal high groundwater tables, and occurrence of rock and other impervious strata shall be provided by the developer.
a.
A high intensity soil survey will generally be required to provide this data, although in some cases, and at the option of the county health department, a medium intensity survey may be adequate for some area of the county.
b.
This information should be superimposed on a copy of the plat showing contour lines and other natural features of the site.
(14)
Location of all water supplies on or off the development which will bear upon the location of the on-site sewage management systems.
(15)
Generalized plans for stormwater management, including the proposed location of drainageways, basins, and other improvements.
(16)
Plans for control of erosion and sedimentation.
(17)
Draft of proposed restrictive lease agreements or covenants, if any, to be imposed, and designation of areas subject to special restrictions.
(Ord. of 11-18-1992, § 3.5-3)
Sec. 22-118. - Review by the county health department.
(a)
If the proposed manufactured home rental community will make use of individual wells and/or wastewater treatment systems, the county department of public health shall review the proposed development for conformance with the requirements of any relevant regulations published by a state agency. If, in its judgment, the development will meet the applicable requirements of these regulations, then the following shall be inscribed on a copy of the preliminary plat showing information pertaining to soil characteristics, and an original signed preliminary plat:
GRADY COUNTY DEPARTMENT OF PUBLIC HEALTH
Based on topography, soils, and other associated information provided by the developer, soil scientist, and an on-site inspection; this proposed manufactured home community has been approved as to its general suitability for the installation of personal water wells and/or on-site sewage management systems, with any exceptions as noted. Final approval of individual system installations can be given only if systems are installed according to state regulations for the department of public health: chapter 511-3-1.
This preliminary plat was given approval by the Grady County Department of Public Health on this ________ day of ___________, 20___.
______________________
Grady County Environmental Health Specialist
(b)
If the developer proposes to employ a central water and/or wastewater treatment system to serve the proposed development, the health department shall note on the plat that approval from the department of natural resources (DNR) is required for final plat approval.
(Ord. of 11-18-1992, § 3.5-4)
Sec. 22-119. - Certificate of preliminary plat approval.
At such time as the preliminary plat may be approved by the planning commission, the following certificate of approval shall be inscribed on the plat provided that it has received certification by the county health department, to indicate such approval by this body:
Pursuant to the Manufactured Home and Travel Trailer Regulations of Grady County, Georgia, all the requirements for approval having been fulfilled, this Preliminary Plat was given approval by the Grady County Planning Commission on this ________ day of ___________, 20___.
This approval does not constitute approval of a final plat. This certificate of approval shall expire and become null and void on ___________, 20___, one year from the above date of approval.
EXPAND
_____
Date _____
Chairperson, Planning Commission
  (Ord. of 11-18-1992, § 3.5-5)
Sec. 22-120. - Construction of the manufactured home rental community.
Construction of the development may commence only after approval of the preliminary plat by the county planning commission. The developer shall arrange periodic inspections of the project by the appropriate county departments during the course of construction. If, within one year from the date of approval of the preliminary plat by the planning commission, no substantive development has taken place, the approval will then be null and void. Substantive development may be evidenced by actual construction of utilities and/or infrastructure a demonstration of reliance and change of position as evidenced by the securing of a construction loan, purchase of construction materials, or the execution of valid contracts to commence construction work on the site within one year of approval by the planning commission.
(Ord. of 11-18-1992, § 3.5-6)
Sec. 22-121. - Final plat application.
The final plat application shall contain:
(1)
A letter of application and intent containing the name and address of a person to whom notice may be sent. The developer shall state that all required minimum improvements have been made and that the manufactured home rental community is available for occupancy.
(2)
A complete list of deviations, if any, from that which appeared on the approved preliminary plat.
(3)
A certified copy of all private covenants or lease restrictions, if any, pertaining to land within the development.
(4)
A copy of the agreement between the developer and any other political jurisdiction, if any, regarding the arrangements for providing the necessary water and sewer facilities.
(5)
An original reproducible and ten prints of the final plat.
(6)
Design and calculations for the stormwater drainage system, including elevations and capacities of pipes and holding basins. This plan shall be designed so as to meet all applicable state and federal requirements.
(7)
A plan showing the location of all water, sewer, gas, and electrical system improvements, including locations of service connections.
(8)
If the proposed water/sewer system for the development requires the approval of the state department of natural resources, the approval shall be obtained prior to making application for approval of the final plat. The approval shall be in writing to the county commission.
(Ord. of 11-18-1992, § 3.5-7)
Sec. 22-122. - Final plat requirements.
This final plat shall show the following:
(1)
Primary control points and benchmarks with necessary descriptions and locations of such control points, including all dimensions, angles, bearings and similar data necessary for proper locations.
(2)
Tract boundary lines, right-of-way lines of adjacent public streets and internal private streets, easements, other internal, private rights-of-way and other reserved sites; with accurate dimensions, bearings or deflection angles, radii, and area and central angle of any curves. All private streets shall be clearly labeled as such.
(3)
Names of internal, private streets.
(4)
Location, dimensions and purpose of any easements.
(5)
Number or letter to identify each manufactured home stand.
(6)
Purpose for which sites, other than individual stands, are dedicated or reserved.
(7)
Minimum building setback lines on all stands and other reserved sites.
(8)
Location and description of monuments.
(9)
Names of owners of adjoining land.
(10)
Reference to recorded subdivision plats, if any, of adjoining platted land by recorded names, date, and number.
(11)
Certification by registered surveyor or registered engineer to accuracy of survey and plat.
(12)
Declaration of landownership.
(13)
Title, numerical scale, graphic scale, north arrow, total project acreage and date.
(14)
A vicinity map, shown either as in insert or on a separate sheet and at a scale of not less than one inch equals two miles, showing the location of the proposed development.
(Ord. of 11-18-1992, § 3.5-8)
Sec. 22-123. - Certificates of final plat approval.
At such time as the final plat may be approved by the planning commission and subsequently, by the board of county commissioners, a certificate of approval shall be inscribed on the plat to indicate such approval by these bodies.
Pursuant to the county manufactured home and travel trailer regulations, all the requirements for approval having been fulfilled, this final plat was given approval by the county planning commission on this ________ day of ___________ 20___.
EXPAND
_____
Date _____
Chairperson, Planning Commission
  All requirements for approval having been fulfilled and approval having been made by the county planning commission, this final plat was given approval by the county board of commissioners this ________ day of ___________, 20___. _________________________
Chairperson, Grady County Board of Commissioners
(Ord. of 11-18-1992, § 3.5-9)
Secs. 22-124—22-143. - Reserved.
ARTICLE VI. - DEVELOPMENT SIZE AND SPACE REQUIREMENTS

Sec. 22-144. - Manufacture home rental.
Manufactured home rental communities shall conform to the requirements set forth in this article.
(Ord. of 11-18-1992, art. VI(intro.))
Sec. 22-145. - Length of residential occupancy.
No space within a manufactured home rental community, except as provided in this section, shall be rented for residential use of a manufactured home except for periods of 30 days or more. In the event a manufactured home rental community fronts on a state or federal highway and the development owner desires to lease space for travel trailers or for short time occupancy of a manufactured home, the developer shall prepare and reserve an area improved for temporary use in an area separate and screened from view of spaces leased for permanent occupancy.
(Ord. of 11-18-1992, § 3.6-1)
Secs. 22-146—22-173. - Reserved.
ARTICLE VII. - DESIGN REQUIREMENTS

Sec. 22-174. - Conforming design.
The design of a manufactured home rental community shall conform to the requirements set forth in this article.
(Ord. of 11-18-1992, art. VII(intro.))
Sec. 22-175. - Setback.
The manufactured home rental community shall be designed so that manufactured homes and their accessory structures shall observe the following minimum distances from rights-of-way and/or property lines.
Table 22-175. Setback Per Stand in Feet
EXPAND
Front Side Rear
25 feet 10 feet 15 feet
(Exterior boundaries) 30 feet
  (Ord. of 11-18-1992, § 3.7-1)
Sec. 22-176. - Minimum stand size.
The manufactured home rental community shall be designed in such a manner that each manufactured home stand will have a usable area not less than the requirements specified in the state DHR table MT-2.
(Ord. of 11-18-1992, § 3.7-2)
Sec. 22-177. - Access.
All manufactured home rental communities shall provide a private, internal collector street system, with a minimum 40-foot right-of-way, connecting with a state- or county-maintained road. Each manufactured home (or travel trailer) site and its parking area shall have direct access to the internal street system of the development. No individual stand, however, shall have direct access to a state- or county-maintained roadway; provided, however, that individual stands in manufactured home rental communities of less than ten spaces may have direct access to unpaved county-maintained roads if the following conditions are met:
(1)
Each driveway accessing a public road shall be a minimum of 250 feet apart measured from centerline to centerline of driveway.
(2)
Each manufactured home shall be set back from the public road a minimum of 50 feet.
(3)
A planted screening buffer 15 feet wide adjacent to the public road shall be provided as specified by the planning commission.
(Ord. of 11-18-1992, § 3.7-3; Ord. of 6-7-1994)
Sec. 22-178. - Streets.
All streets and drainage systems within a manufactured home rental community shall be privately-owned, -constructed and -maintained.
(1)
Manufactured home rental communities of less than ten spaces shall have, at a minimum, unpaved streets constructed in such a manner as to provide a 20-foot travel way. Unpaved streets shall be hard surfaced and crowned to facilitate drainage. Ditches on each side of streets shall be properly constructed to provide drainage of stormwater for the development. Unpaved streets shall be maintained periodically by the park owner so as to provide all-weather access for park tenants.
(2)
Manufactured home rental communities of ten spaces or more shall have, at a minimum, paved streets constructed with a compacted sand-clay or soil cement base which extends one foot on each side of the paved surface. Paved surfaces shall be a minimum of ten feet for one-way streets and 20 feet for two-way streets. Provisions for stormwater runoff shall be provided.
(Ord. of 11-18-1992, § 3.7-4)
Sec. 22-179. - Parking.
Each manufactured home stand shall be provided with a minimum of two parking spaces. Parking on interior streets is prohibited unless an additional ten feet is provided to minimum street widths cited in section 22-178.
(Ord. of 11-18-1992, § 3.7-5)
Sec. 22-180. - Abandoned vehicles.
It shall be the responsibility of the park owner to remove all abandoned vehicles from manufactured home rental community premises. Any vehicle left unattended for a period exceeding 90 days shall be deemed abandoned.
(Ord. of 11-18-1992, § 3.7-6)
Sec. 22-181. - Density.
Density of manufactured homestands within a manufactured home rental community shall be governed by the provisions of section 22-174.
(Ord. of 11-18-1992, § 3.7-7)
Sec. 22-182. - Recreation.
Manufactured home rental community owners are encouraged to devote a minimum of five percent of the gross site area to recreational facilities for community residents.
(Ord. of 11-18-1992, § 3.7-8)
Sec. 22-183. - Skirting.
Each manufactured home shall be provided with approved skirting as required by the county building code.
(Ord. of 11-18-1992, § 3.7-9)
Secs. 22-184—22-201. - Reserved.
ARTICLE VIII. - REQUIRED IMPROVEMENTS

Sec. 22-202. - Minimum improvements.
Manufactured home rental communities constructed or reconstructed shall be provided with the minimum improvements set forth in this article.
(Ord. of 11-18-1992, art. VIII(intro.))
Sec. 22-203. - Sewerage.
The manufactured home rental community shall be provided with a sewerage collection system designed to comply with the requirements of the county health department for individual systems or the department of natural resources (DNR) standards for community systems so that each manufactured home stand structure can be serviced.
(Ord. of 11-18-1992, § 3.8-1)
Sec. 22-204. - Water.
An approved potable water supply meeting all DHR and/or DNR as well as the county health department requirements shall be provided by the development operator.
(Ord. of 11-18-1992, § 3.8-2)
Sec. 22-205. - Easements.
Publicly dedicated easements of property size for their intended purpose shall be provided within the development if service to individual manufactured home stands and accessory structure uses is to be provided by a public utility system.
(Ord. of 11-18-1992, § 3.8-3)
Sec. 22-206. - Utility placement.
All water, sewer or gas lines shall be buried a minimum of 12 inches below the finished ground surface of the development and shall be provided with an adequate valve system to allow the cutoff of utility service to a manufactured home stand at the manufactured home stand and at the entrance of the utility system into the development. If overhead lines are provided within the development, such lines shall be a minimum of 15 feet above the grade of the interior streets and so placed that no wires extend over the manufactured home stand.
(Ord. of 11-18-1992, § 3.8-4)
Sec. 22-207. - Street name and traffic control signs.
Each internal street within the development shall be identified by the installation of a permanent street sign. Traffic control signs (stop, yield, speed limit, etc.) shall be placed throughout the development where necessary. All street name and traffic control signs shall be installed, and the cost thereof paid by the developer, prior to final plat approval. All spaces shall be numbered with two-inch letters visible from the roadside.
(Ord. of 11-18-1992, § 3.8-5)
Sec. 22-208. - Lighting.
All recreation areas, community entrances, community streets and pedestrian easements shall be illuminated to at least 0.3 foot candles by properly shielded lighting fixtures.
(Ord. of 11-18-1992, § 3.8-6)
Sec. 22-209. - Mail facilities.
It shall be the responsibility of the developer to provide an approved mail delivery box for each manufactured home stand. For any development with a density of four units per acre or greater, a cluster mailbox, of a design approved by the United States Postal Service, shall be provided at a central location to serve the residents of the community. The developer is encouraged to consult with a local postal authority as to the best type of box to be used and where it may be located to best serve the proposed community.
(Ord. of 11-18-1992, § 3.8-7)
Sec. 22-210. - Garbage and refuse.
It shall be the responsibility of the developer to provide adequate garbage and refuse containers, maintained in a rodent and vermin proof condition, easily accessible to or within each manufactured home stand and in sufficient number and placement to service all manufactured home stands in the development. The adequacy and location of containers shall be determined by the code enforcement officer, based on county policy as may be established from time to time by the board of commissioners.
(Ord. of 11-18-1992, § 3.8-8)
Secs. 22-211—22-227. - Reserved.
ARTICLE IX. - MANUFACTURED HOME STAND IMPROVEMENTS

Sec. 22-228. - Minimum requirements.
Each manufactured home stand shall be provided with the minimum requirements set forth in this article.
(Ord. of 11-18-1992, art. IX(intro.))
Sec. 22-229. - Interior street access.
Each stand shall be provided with access frontage of at least 30 feet.
(Ord. of 11-18-1992, § 3.9-1)
Sec. 22-230. - Electric power supply.
Each stand shall be provided with an adequate, properly grounded, waterproofed electrical receptacle (manufactured home panel) that complies with the requirements of the county code office and the electric power supplier (Grady EMC, Georgia Power Company).
(Ord. of 11-18-1992, § 3.9-2)
Sec. 22-231. - Sewerage disposal.
Each stand shall be provided with the means of disposing of kitchen, bath and putrescible waste directly into an installed septic tank system or an approved community sewerage collection system.
(Ord. of 11-18-1992, § 3.9-3)
Sec. 22-232. - Manufactured home subdivisions.
Subdivisions designed for manufactured home occupancy shall be plated and developed under the procedure established and required under the county subdivision regulations.
(Ord. of 11-18-1992, art. X)
Sec. 22-233. - Enforcement.
The provisions of these regulations shall be enforced by the official so designated by the governing authority. He shall have the right to enter any manufactured home development area at any reasonable time for the purpose of making inspections of manufactured homes, accessory structures and development facilities necessary to carry out his duties in the enforcement of these regulations.
(Ord. of 11-18-1992, art. XI)
