Chapter 26 - PARKS AND RECREATION[1]
Footnotes:
--- (1) ---
State Law reference— Power to provide parks, recreation areas, programs and facilities, Ga. Const. art. IX, § II, ¶ III(a)(5); establishment of recreation systems, O.C.G.A. § 36-64-1 et seq.; state commission on physical fitness created, O.C.G.A. § 50-12-40 et seq.

ARTICLE I. - IN GENERAL

Sec. 26-1. - Fishing on Hadley Ferry Road crossing.
(a)
There shall be no fishing from the bridge on Hadley Ferry Road crossing the Ochlocknee River within the county. Enforcement of the regulation imposed by this section will be accomplished by the game and fish commission and the county sheriff's department.
(b)
Any person who violates subsection (a) of this section may, upon conviction, be punished according to the section 1-12.
(Ord. of 5-7-2002, § 1)
Secs. 26-2—26-20. - Reserved.
ARTICLE II. - TIRED CREEK PARK HUNTING REGULATIONS[2]

Footnotes:
--- (2) ---
State Law reference— Hunting, O.C.G.A. § 27-3-1 et seq.

Sec. 26-21. - Generally.
The Tired Creek Lake authority regulations shall govern.
Secs. 26-22—26-45. - Reserved.
ARTICLE III. - TIRED CREEK PARK USES

Sec. 26-46. - Generally.
The county board of commissioners has an interest in the safe and proper management of the property it owns in various land lots within Land District 16 in the county consisting of approximately 3,000 acres and commonly referred to as Tired Creek Park. In order to safely and effectively manage this public resource, the commissioners will from time to time issue ordinances controlling the use and management of this tract of land.
(Ord. of 9-7-2004(2), § 2(a))
Sec. 26-47. - Uses.
The public may only occupy or use that property known as the Tired Creek Park as is specifically authorized to do so in a county ordinance or upon obtaining a special use permit issued by the county board of commissioners as outlined in this section. Except as specifically authorized by ordinance or by special use permit as described in this section, the public use of the park is limited to the period of time from one hour before sunrise to one hour after sunset. Permitted public uses of the Tired Creek Park lands shall only include:
(1)
Hunting, as more specifically regulated in article II of this chapter.
(2)
Horseback riding.
(3)
Hiking.
(4)
Fishing.
(5)
Trail riding by all-terrain vehicle.
(6)
Agricultural uses and other special uses may be permitted as agreed to by the board of commissioners. Those seeking applications for special use should do so by notifying the county board of commissioners, in writing, of their desire to do so and shall not conduct such activity until a special use permit is issued by the commissioners for that activity. All agricultural uses shall be authorized by a lease agreement with the county.
(Ord. of 9-7-2004(2), § 2(b))
Sec. 26-48. - Vehicle traffic.
Unless a special permit as contemplated by section 26-47 authorizes it, there shall be no motorcycles operated or parked on the land known as Tired Creek Park. Any vehicle not prohibited by this section shall be operated on Tired Creek Park in a manner to preserve peace and tranquility and minimize land disturbances and shall abide by all signs and instructions posted by the county on the property.
(Ord. of 9-7-2004(2), § 2(c))
Sec. 26-49. - Penalties.
Any violation of the requirements of any of the provisions throughout this chapter may be punished as provided in section 1-12, in addition to, or in lieu of, any penalties or remedies available under state law.
(Ord. of 9-7-2004(2), § 2(d))
Sec. 26-50. - Permits.
Those hunting, horseback riding, trail riding, hiking or fishing within the boundaries of Tired Creek Park must have in their possession a permit issued by the board of commissioners. The only use allowed at night between the hours of one hour after sunset until one hour before sunrise without a special use permit is racoon hunting and the permit for racoon hunting shall include a description of any vehicle which will be used on the property during these hours. The commissioners may assess a fee as set from time to time by the board for the issuance of any of these permits and the fee may vary according to the activity permitted. This permit will be valid for one year from the date of its issuance and shall be available for purchase at the county commissioner's office located at 250 N. Broad Street, Cairo, Georgia, during the regular office hours of this office. Each permit shall include an agreement in which the permit holder releases or holds harmless the county from any liabilities, damages, injuries, costs, expenses, or any other impositions incurred by the permit holder as a result of his use of the Tired Creek Park.
(Ord. of 9-7-2004(2), § 2(e))
