ARTICLE 2. - ESTABLISHMENT OF ZONING DISTRICTS, OVERLAY DISTRICTS, AND MAPS

Section 201. - Zoning districts established.
The following base zoning districts are hereby established:
EXPAND
R-1 Low-Density Residential District
R-2 Medium-Density Residential District
O-I Office-Institutional District
CB Commercial Business District
IA Industrial Activity District
  The following special use district is hereby established:
EXPAND
MU Mixed-Use District
  Section 202. - Overlay districts established.
The following overlay zoning districts are hereby established:
Lawrenceville Highway (U.S. 29) Corridor Overlay District.
Town Center (TC) Overlay District.
Section 203. - Land use categories and subsequent zoning districts.
Zoning districts that are compatible and acceptable within the land use categories set forth in the city's comprehensive plan shall be as established in the future development map, as shown below.
EXPAND
City of Lilburn
Character Areas Compatible
Zoning
Districts
Lawrenceville Highway Overlay Areas CB, O-I, MU
Gateway Areas CB, MU
Mixed-Use Redevelopment Overlay Areas MU, R-2, CB
Town Center Overlay CB, O-I, MU
Transit-Oriented Development Area MU
Areas Underserved by Parks R-1
Established Residential Areas R-1, R-2
Outlying Commercial and Industrial Areas CB, MU, IA
  Section 204. - Official zoning map.
1.
The boundaries of zoning districts and overlay district(s) created by this Zoning Ordinance are hereby established as shown on a map entitled the "Official Zoning Map" of the City of Lilburn, Georgia.
2.
The official zoning map and all explanatory matter thereon accompany and are hereby made a part of this article. The official zoning map shall indicate the date of adoption and most recent amendment. The original of the official zoning map shall be kept in the planning and economic development department.
3.
The official zoning map shall be considered the same as the "Official Comprehensive Zoning Map, City of Lilburn, Georgia," as referenced in the Lilburn City Charter.
4.
The official zoning map may be kept electronically in a geographic information system and such electronic data shall constitute an integral part of the official zoning map.
Section 205. - Amendment of official zoning map.
If, in accordance with the provisions of this article, the Lilburn City Council approves changes in the district boundaries or other subject matter portrayed on the official zoning map, such changes shall be made promptly after the amendment or change has been approved by the Lilburn City Council. Once an amendment to the official zoning map has been approved by the Lilburn City Council, it shall be considered an administrative action to amend the official zoning map to properly depict the map amendment approved by the Lilburn City Council, and additional approval or action by council shall not be necessary.
Section 206. - Correction and update of property lines on official zoning map.
1.
The director is authorized to correct or update property lines depicted on the official zoning map, as such changes to the tax records of the city are made through land subdivision and combination of lots, without a requirement to seek approval of the Lilburn City Council, provided that such changes to property lines do not affect a zoning or overlay district boundary except as otherwise specifically provided in this section.
2.
In any instance where the property lines as shown on the official zoning map deviate from a boundary survey prepared by a registered land surveyor for the lot or tract in question, and such deviation is attributed by the director to a drafting error or imperfection in the property parcel data base originally used in preparing the official zoning map, the director is authorized to correct the official zoning map to show the boundaries of the zoning or overlay district to follow the boundaries as shown on said boundary survey. Any such correction shall be considered an administrative action, and additional approval or action by council shall not be necessary to correct the official zoning map.
Section 207. - Rules governing boundaries.
This section shall govern administrative determinations by the director in cases where there is uncertainty with regard to the zoning and/or overlay district boundaries shown on the official zoning map. Where such uncertainty exists, the following provisions shall apply:
1.
City limit lines. Where boundaries are indicated as approximately following the corporate limit line of the city, such corporate limit line shall be construed to be such boundaries.
2.
Property lines. Where boundaries are indicated as following property lines, such property lines shall be construed to be such boundaries. The boundaries shall be determined on the basis of the legal descriptions or boundary surveys associated with approved map amendments, where available.
3.
Stream and river beds. Where boundaries are indicated as approximately following the centerline of stream beds or river beds, or the outer edge of such stream bed or river bed, such centerline or edge of stream or river bed shall be construed to be such boundaries.
4.
Abandonment. Where a public street or other right-of-way is officially vacated or abandoned and said street or right-of-way is also a zoning district or overlay district boundary, the regulations applicable to the property to which it reverted shall apply to such vacated or abandoned public street or right-of-way.
5.
Administrative determination. In any case where the exact location of a boundary cannot be determined by the foregoing methods, the director shall determine the location of the boundary. Any such administrative determination is subject to appeal as an administrative decision in accordance with Article 10 of this Zoning Ordinance.
