ARTICLE VI. - WETLANDS PROTECTION

Sec. 109-210. - Ordinance incorporated by reference.
Sec. 109-211. - Findings of fact.
The wetlands within Lilburn, Georgia are indispensable and fragile natural resources with significant development constraints due to flooding, erosion and soils limitations. In their natural state, wetlands serve man and nature. They provide habitat areas for fish, wildlife and vegetation; water quality maintenance and pollution control; flood control; erosion control; natural resource education; scientific study; and open space and recreational opportunities. In addition, the wise management of forested wetlands is essential to the economic well being of many communities within the State of Georgia. Nationally, a considerable number of these important natural resources have been lost or impaired by draining, dredging, filling, excavating, building, pollution and other acts. Piecemeal or cumulative losses will, over time, destroy additional wetlands. Damaging or destroying wetlands threatens public safety and the general welfare. It is therefore necessary for Lilburn, Georgia to ensure maximum protection for wetlands by discouraging development activities that may adversely affect wetlands.
(Ord. of 4-12-1999, § 1.1)
Sec. 109-212. - Title and purpose.
This article shall be known as the wetland protection chapter of Lilburn, Georgia. The purpose of this article is to promote wetland protection, while taking into account varying ecological, economic development, recreational and aesthetic values. Activities that may damage wetlands should be located on upland sites to the greatest degree practicable as determined through a permitting process. The objective of this article is to protect wetlands from alterations that will significantly affect or reduce their primary functions for water quality, floodplain and erosion control, groundwater recharge, aesthetic nature and wildlife habitat.
(Ord. of 4-12-1999, § 1.2)
Sec. 109-213. - Definitions.
The following words, terms and phrases, when used in this section, shall have the meanings ascribed to them in this section, except where the context clearly indicates a different meaning:
Functions means the beneficial roles that wetlands serve, includes storage, conveyance and attenuation of floodwater and stormwater; protection of water quantity and quality and reduction of erosion; habit for wildlife, including rare, threatened and endangered species; food chain support for a wide variety of wildlife and fisheries; educational, historical and archeological value protection; and scenic, aesthetic and recreational amenities.
Generalized wetland map means a general location of wetlands located within the Norcross, Luxomni, Snellville, and Stone Mountain quadrangles as shown on the National Wetlands Inventory Map prepared by the U.S. Department of the Interior, within the jurisdiction of Lilburn.
Hydric soils means soils that form as a result of saturated soils conditions. A list of these soils is maintained by the soil conservation service.
Hydrophytic vegetation means macrophytic plants tolerant of or dependent on saturated soil conditions.
Jurisdictional determination means an official, written statement or map signed by the U.S. Army Corps of engineers or, in the case of coastal marshlands, the Georgia Department Of Natural Resources.
Jurisdictional Wetland means a wetland area that meets the definitional requirements for wetlands as determined by the U.S. Army Corps of engineers.
Temporary emergency permit means a temporary permit that may be issued in certain circumstances specified in this article.
Wetland means an area that is inundated or saturated by surface water or groundwater at a frequency and distribution sufficient to support, and under normal circumstances does support, a prevalence of vegetation typically adapted for life in saturated soil conditions, commonly known as hydrophytic vegetation. Wetlands generally include swamps, marshes, bogs and similar areas.
Wetland delineation means the establishment of wetland boundaries by a representative of the U.S. Army Corps of engineers or an authority designated by the Corps.
Wetland protection district means all wetlands within the jurisdiction of Lilburn and shown on the Generalized wetland map.
(Ord. of 4-12-1999, § 1.3)
Cross reference— Definitions generally, § 1-2.
Sec. 109-214. - Wetland protection district.
This article shall apply to all lands within wetlands located within the jurisdiction of Lilburn, Georgia. The generalized wetland map, adopted as part of this article, shows the general location of wetlands and should be consulted by persons contemplating activities in or near wetlands. The generalized wetland map, together with all explanatory matter thereon and attached thereto, is hereby adopted by reference and declared to be a part of this article. The generalized wetland map shall be on file in the office of the Lilburn city clerk.
(Ord. of 4-12-1999, § 2.1)
Sec. 109-215. - Wetland protection district boundaries.
The generalized wetland map is a general reference document, and wetland boundaries indicated on the map are approximations. The purpose of the generalized wetland map is to alert developers/landowners if they are within proximity to a wetland, which means that there is a high likelihood of the presence of a jurisdictional wetland and a need for the developer/landowner to seek U.S. Army Corps of engineers guidance as to whether a permit will be required prior to any activity. The generalized wetland map does not represent the boundaries of jurisdictional wetlands within the jurisdiction of Lilburn and cannot serve as a substitute for a delineation of wetland boundaries by the U.S. Army Corps of engineers, as required by the Clean Water Act, as amended. Any local government action under this chapter does not relieve the landowner from federal or state permitting requirements.
(Ord. of 4-12-1999, § 2.2)
Sec. 109-216. - Local development permit requirements.
No regulated activity will be allowed within the wetland protection district without written permission from the City of Lilburn in the form of a local development permit. Issuance of a local development permit is contingent on full compliance with the terms of this article and other applicable regulations. All activities that are not identified in this article or by other local development ordinances, shall be prohibited without prior issuance of a local development permit. If the area proposed for development is located within 100 feet of the Wetland Protection District boundary, as determined from the generalized wetland map, a U.S. Army Corps of engineers determination shall be required. If the corps determines that wetlands are present on the proposed development site and that a permit or letter of permission is required, a local development permit will be issued only following issuance of the permit or letter of permission
(Ord. of 4-12-1999, § 3.1)
Sec. 109-217. - Permit requirements within the wetland district.
(a)
Prior to issuance of any development permit for activity within 100 feet of a wetland, the applicant must include, with the site plans for the proposed action, documentation that the following post-development conditions will prevail at the site:
(1)
The rate of stormwater runoff, volume of stormwater runoff, and peak runoffs from the site will not exceed pre-development levels.
(2)
The amount of the following pollutants carried within runoff from the site will not exceed pre-development conditions:
a.
Phosphorus;
b.
Nitrogen;
c.
Zinc;
d.
Lead.
In addition, biological oxygen demand (BOD) and turbidity (TSS) shall not exceed pre-development levels.
(3)
In addition to other fees assessed, the applicant may be held liable for costs incurred by the City of Lilburn during evaluation of the performance standards evaluation.
(b)
Methodologies for evaluating pre-development and post-development stormwater runoff and pollution loading exist. For a methodology for evaluation of stormwater runoff, the local government is referred to the "hydros" model and procedures proposed in the National Engineering Handbook, published by the United States soil conservation service. For calculation of pre-development and post-development pollution loading, the local government is referred to the methodology proposed within Schueler, T.R., 1987, The Impacts of Urban Runoff, in Controlling Urban Runoff: A Practical Manual for Planning Urban BMPs, Washington, D.C.; Department of Environmental Programs, Metropolitan Washington Council of Governments, pp. 1.1-1.23.
(Ord. of 4-12-1999, § 3.2)
Sec. 109-218. - Permissible uses (uses as of right).
The following uses shall be allowed as of right within a wetland to the extent that they are not prohibited by any other ordinance or law, including laws of trespass, and provided they do not require structures, grading, fill, draining or dredging except as provided herein:
(1)
Conservation or preservation of soil, water, vegetation fish and other wildlife, provided they do not affect waters of Georgia or of the United States in such a way that would require an individual 404 Permit.
(2)
Outdoor passive recreational activities, including fishing, bird watching, hiking, boating, horseback riding and canoeing.
(3)
Forestry practices applied in accordance with best management practices approved by the Georgia Forestry Commission and as specified in the Clean Water Act.
(4)
The continued cultivation of agricultural crops. Agricultural activities shall be subject to best management practices approved by the Georgia Department of Agriculture.
(5)
The pasturing of livestock, provided that riparian wetlands are protected, that soil profiles are not disturbed and that approved agricultural best management practices are followed.
(6)
Education, scientific research and nature trails.
(7)
Temporary emergency permit: A temporary emergency permit can be issued by City of Lilburn for the following reasons:
a.
Maintenance or repair of lawfully located roads or structures and of facilities used in the service of the public to provide transportation, electric, gas, water, telephone, telegraph, telecommunication or other services, provided that such roads, structures or facilities are not materially changed or enlarged and written notice prior to the commencement of work has been given to the City of Lilburn and provided that the work is conducted using best management practices to ensure that flow and circulation patterns and chemical and biological characteristics of the wetland are not impaired and that any adverse effect on the aquatic environment will be minimized.
b.
Temporary water-level stabilization measures associated with ongoing silvicultural operations.
c.
Limited ditching, tilling, dredging, excavating or filling done solely for the purpose of maintaining or repairing existing drainage systems necessary for the cultivation of agricultural crops, provided that the maintenance or repair activity does not result in the impairment, alteration or loss of wetlands not previously subject to agricultural and silvicultural use under the terms and provisions of this article.
d.
Limited excavating and filling necessary for the repair and maintenance of piers, walkways, nature trails, observation decks, wildlife management shelters, boathouses or other similar water-related structures, provided that they are built on pilings to allow unobstructed flow of water and preserve the natural contour of the wetland.
(Ord. of 4-12-1999, § 3.3)
Sec. 109-219. - Site plans.
Applications for a local development permit within the generalized wetland protection district shall include a site plan, drawn at a scale of 1" = 50', with the following information:
(1)
A map of all planned excavation and fill, including calculations of the volume of cut and fill involved, cross-sectional drawings showing existing and proposed grades. Elevations, horizontal scale and vertical scale must be shown on the cross-sectional drawings.
(2)
A map of any wetland boundaries occurring within the site must be provided. This boundary may be included on other maps provided by the applicant.
(3)
Location, dimensions and area of all impervious surfaces, both existing and proposed, on the site and adjacent to the site for a distance of 100 feet.
(4)
The orientation and distance from the boundaries of the proposed site to the nearest bank of an affected perennial stream or water body.
(5)
Elevations of the site and adjacent lands within 200 feet of the site at contour intervals of no greater than two feet; and no greater than one foot for slopes less than or equal to two percent.
(6)
Location and detailed design of any spill and leak collection systems designed for the purpose of containing accidentally released hazardous or toxic materials.
(7)
All proposed temporary disruptions or diversions of local hydrology.
(Ord. of 4-12-1999, § 3.4)
Sec. 109-220. - Activities to comply with site plan.
All development activities or site work conducted after approval of the site plan shall conform with the specifications of said site plan. The site plan may be amended only with the approval of City of Lilburn. The City of Lilburn may require additional information deemed necessary to verify compliance with the provisions of this article or to evaluate the proposed use in terms of the purposes of this article.
(Ord. of 4-12-1999, § 3.5)
Sec. 109-221. - Filing fee.
At the time of the application, the applicant shall pay a filing fee specified by the City of Lilburn. Filing fees up to a maximum of $500.00 may be required to evaluate the application. This fee may be used to retain expert consultants who will provide services pertaining to functional assessment, mitigation and wetland boundary determinations as deemed necessary by the City of Lilburn.
(Ord. of 4-12-1999, § 3.6)
Sec. 109-222. - Enforcement authority.
The department designated by the city manager is hereby established as the administrator of this article.
(Ord. of 4-12-1999, § 3.7)
Sec. 109-223. - Review procedures.
The application shall be made to the City of Lilburn Clerk and will be reviewed within 21 days. The review period shall begin upon determination by the City of Lilburn clerk that the application submitted is complete. The review period shall include the preparation of findings (approval or disapproval) by the City of Lilburn Clerk. The applicant will receive written notification of the findings of the City of Lilburn.
(Ord. of 4-12-1999, § 3.8)
Sec. 109-224. - Appeals.
Decisions on permit applications made by the Lilburn city clerk may be appealed to the Lilburn Zoning Board of Appeals. The appeal must be made within 15 days of the decision rendered by the Lilburn City Clerk. A public hearing shall be held for appeals. Public announcement of the hearing shall be printed in a local newspaper of general circulation at least 15 days prior to the hearing. Any person may offer testimony at the hearing. The decision of the Lilburn zoning board of appeals may be appealed to the superior court within 30 days of the decision of the zoning board of appeals. If an appeal is not made within 30 days of the decision of the zoning board of appeals, then their decision is final.
(Ord. of 4-12-1999, § 3.9)
Sec. 109-225. - Duration of permit validity.
(a)
If construction described in the development permit has not commenced within 12 months from the date of issuance, the permit shall expire.
(b)
If construction described in the development permit is suspended or abandoned after work has commenced, the permit shall expire 12 months after the date that work ceased.
(c)
Written notice of the pending expiration of the development permit shall be issued by the Lilburn city clerk.
(Ord. of 4-12-1999, § 3.10)
Sec. 109-226. - Monitoring and enforcement.
(a)
The City of Lilburn, its agent, officers and employees shall have authority to enter upon privately owned land for the purpose of performing their duties under this article and may take or cause to be made such examinations, surveys or sampling as the City of Lilburn deems necessary.
(1)
All enforcement and monitoring activities conducted by the City of Lilburn that involves entrance to privately owned land by the City of Lilburn shall be preceded by written notification to the landowner. Said notification shall be issued at least three days prior to the activities specified in the notification.
(2)
The Lilburn City Clerk shall have authority to enforce this article; issue permits hereunder; and address violations or threatened violations hereof by issuance of violation notices, administrative orders and civil and criminal actions. All costs, fees and expenses in connection with such actions may be recovered as damages against the violator.
(3)
The Lilburn Police Department and/or zoning enforcement officer shall have authority to assist the Lilburn City Clerk in enforcement.
(4)
The Lilburn City Clerk shall have authority to issue cease and desist orders in the event of any violation of this article. Cease and desist orders may be appealed to a court of competent jurisdiction, as identified in this article.
(b)
The City of Lilburn may require a bond in an amount of $1,000.00/acre with surety and conditions sufficient to secure compliance with the conditions set forth in the permit. The bond shall be in effect for the duration of the construction project, but no longer than 18 months from the issuance of the wetlands permit. In the event of a breach of any condition of any such bond, the City of Lilburn may use the proceeds of the bond to reimburse the costs of corrective actions deemed necessary to mitigate the effects of non-compliance with the permit.
(Ord. of 4-12-1999, § 4)
Sec. 109-227. - Penalties.
(a)
Any person who commits, takes part in or assists in any violation of any provision of this article may be fined not more than $1,000.00 for each offense. Each violation shall be a separate offense and, in the case of a continuing violation, each day's continuance shall be deemed to be a separate and distinct offense.
(b)
When a building or other structure has been constructed in violation of this article, the violator may be required to remove the structure at the discretion of the City of Lilburn.
(c)
When removal of vegetative cover, excavation or fill has taken place in violation of this article, the violator may be required to restore the affected land to its original contours and to restore vegetation, as far as practicable, at the discretion of the City of Lilburn.
(d)
If the City of Lilburn discovers a violation of this article that also constitutes violation of any provision of the Clean Water Act as amended, the City of Lilburn shall issue written notification of the violation to the U.S. environmental protection agency, the U.S. Army Corps of engineers and the landowner.
(e)
Suspension, revocation. The City of Lilburn may suspend or revoke a permit if it finds that the applicant has not complied with the conditions or limitations set forth in the permit or has exceeded the scope of the work set forth in the permit. The City of Lilburn shall cause notice of denial, issuance, conditional issuance, revocation or suspension of a permit to be published in a daily newspaper having a broad circulation in the area where the wetland is located.
(Ord. of 4-12-1999, § 5)
Sec. 109-228. - Assessment relief.
Landowners shall also be exempted from special assessment on the wetland to defray the cost of municipal improvements such as sanitary sewers, storm sewers and water mains.
(Ord. of 4-12-1999, § 8)
Secs. 109-229—109-300. - Reserved.
