Chapter 102 - ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT

[Sec. 102-01. - Office of economic development—Responsibilities.]
The office of economic development shall have the following responsibilities:
(1)
To develop for the City of Lilburn an Economic Development District Element of the City according to the Lilburn Comprehensive Plan.
(2)
Establish an economic vitality plan for the implementation of development or redevelopment initiatives to provide for quality, controlled growth, as well as retention, redevelopment, and rehabilitation of targeted businesses.
(3)
The Development Authority of Gwinnett County and Redevelopment Agency of Gwinnett County as well as other local state, and federal agencies and businesses may coordinate with the City of Lilburn Office of Economic Development, to encourage new business development, redevelopment, and retention of existing businesses in the incorporated area of the city.
(4)
The Gwinnett County Chamber of Commerce may work with the City of Lilburn Economic Development Department to encourage new business development, redevelopment, and retention of existing businesses within the corporate city limits.
(5)
Offer inducements to targeted businesses in accordance with the economic vitality plan, subject to approval by the city manager and respective department heads.
(6)
Undertake any other lawful actions approved by the city manager for purposes of improvement of economic vitality, economic development, redevelopment, or revitalization.
(Ord. No. 454-13, 5-13-2013)
Sec. 102-1. - Local economic development.
Inducements which may be offered to targeted businesses are as follows:
(1)
Reduction of fees for development permits.
(2)
Reduction of development impact fees.
(3)
Reduction of application fees for rezoning requests, special use permits, variance requests and requests for changes in zoning conditions.
(4)
Reduction of business occupation taxes.
(5)
Reduction of water, sewer and power charges including reduction of system development charges for water and sewer services.
(6)
Acceleration of all aspects of the development review process.
(7)
Acceleration of public hearing dates for rezoning requests, special use permits, variance requests and request for changes in zoning conditions.
(8)
Inducements authorized by the Redevelopment Powers Act (O.C.G.A. § 36-44-1 et seq.).
(9)
Inducements authorized by the Development Authorities Act (O.C.G.A. § 36-62-1 et seq.).
(10)
In no event shall any inducement result in a payment of city funds to a targeted business.
(Ord. No. 454-13, 5-13-2013)
Sec. 101-2. - Authorization.
The economic development director and/or the city manager are hereby authorized to sign confidentiality agreements with prospective businesses in the furtherance of their official duties so long as such confidentiality agreements are made subject to the provisions of the Georgia Open Records Act.
(Ord. No. 454-13, 5-13-2013)
Sec. 101-3. - Definitions.
[The following words, terms and phrases, when used in this chapter, shall have the meanings ascribed to them in this section, except where the context clearly indicates a different meaning:]
Targeted business means a preferred business or industry type, as identified by Partnership Gwinnett or a special impact project of such magnitude as may be identified by the City of Lilburn.
(Ord. No. 454-13, 5-13-2013)
