ARTICLE III. - ADMINISTRATIVE AFFAIRS

Section 3.10. - Administrative and service departments.
(a)
Except as otherwise provided in this charter, the city council, by ordinance, shall prescribe the functions or duties, and establish, abolish, alter, consolidate, or leave vacant all nonelective offices, positions of employment, departments, and agencies of the city, as necessary for the proper administration of the affairs and government of this city
(b)
Except as otherwise provided by this charter or by law, the directors of departments and other appointed officers of the city shall be appointed solely on the basis of their respective administrative and professional qualifications.
(c)
All appointive officers and directors of departments shall receive such compensation as prescribed by ordinance.
(d)
There may be a director of each department or agency who shall be its principal officer. Each director shall, subject to the direction and supervision of the city manager, be responsible for the administration and direction of the affairs and operations of that director's department or agency.
(e)
All appointive officers and directors shall be employees at-will and subject to removal or suspension at any time by the city manager unless otherwise provided by law or ordinance.
Section 3.11. - Boards, commissions, and authorities.
(a)
The city council shall create by ordinance such boards, commissions, and authorities to fulfill any investigative, quasi-judicial, or quasi-legislative function the city council deems necessary and shall by ordinance establish the composition, period of existence, duties, and powers thereof.
(b)
All members of boards, commissions, and authorities of the city shall be appointed by the city council for such terms of office and in such manner as shall be provided by ordinance, except where other appointing authority, terms of office, or manner of appointment is prescribed by this charter or by law.
(c)
The city council, by ordinance, may provide for the compensation and reimbursement for actual and necessary expenses of the members of any board, commission, or authority.
(d)
Except as otherwise provided by charter or by law, no member of any board, commission, or authority shall hold any elective office in the city.
(e)
Any vacancy on a board, commission, or authority of the city shall be filled for the unexpired term in the manner prescribed herein for original appointment, except as otherwise provided by this charter or by law.
(f)
No member of a board, commission, or authority shall assume office until that person has executed and filed with the clerk of the city an oath obligating himself or herself to faithfully and impartially perform the duties of that member's office, such oath to be prescribed by ordinance and administered by the mayor.
(g)
All board members serve at-will and may be removed at any time by a vote of three members of the city council unless otherwise provided by law.
(h)
Except as otherwise provided by this charter or by law, each board, commission, or authority of the city shall elect one of its members as chair and one member as vice-chair and may elect as its secretary one of its own members or may appoint as secretary an employee of the city. Each board, commission, or authority of the city government may establish such bylaws, rules, and regulations, not inconsistent with this charter, ordinances of the city, or law, as it deems appropriate and necessary for the fulfillment of its duties or the conduct of its affairs. Copies of such bylaws, rules, and regulations shall be filed with the clerk of the city.
Section 3.12. - City attorney.
The city council shall appoint a city attorney and shall provide for the payment of such attorney or attorneys for services rendered to the city. The city attorney shall be responsible for providing for the representation and defense of the city in all litigation in which the city is a party; may be the prosecuting officer in the municipal court; shall attend the meetings of the council as directed; shall advise the city council, mayor, and other officers and employees of the city concerning legal aspects of the city's affairs; and shall perform such other duties as may be required by virtue of the person's position as city attorney.
Section 3.13. - City clerk.
The city council shall appoint a city clerk who shall not be a council member. The city clerk shall be custodian of the official city seal and city records; maintain city council records required by this charter; and perform such other duties as may be required by the city council.
Section 3.14. - Position classification and pay plans.
The city manager shall be responsible for the preparation of a position classification and pay plan which shall be submitted to the city council for approval. Such plan may apply to all employees of the City of Lilburn, Georgia, and any of its agencies, departments, boards, commissions, or authorities. When a pay plan has been adopted, the city council shall increase or decrease the salary range applicable to any position by amendment of such pay plan. For purposes of this section, all elected and appointed city officials are not city employees.
Section 3.15. - Personnel policies.
All employees serve at-will and may be removed from office at any time unless otherwise provided by ordinance. The city council shall adopt rules and regulations consistent with this charter concerning:
(1)
The method of employee selection and probationary periods of employment;
(2)
The administration of position classification and pay plan, methods of promotion and application of service ratings thereto and transfer of employees within the classification plan;
(3)
Hours of work, vacation, sick leave and other leaves of absence, overtime pay and the order and manner in which layoffs shall be effected; and
(4)
Such other personnel policies as may be necessary to provide for adequate and systematic handling of the personnel affairs of the city.
