ARTICLE I. - INCORPORATION AND POWERS

Section 1.10. - Name.
This city and the inhabitants thereof, are reincorporated by the enactment of this charter and are hereby constituted and declared a body politic and corporate under the name and style of Lilburn, Georgia, and by that name shall have perpetual succession.
Section 1.11. - Corporate boundaries.
(a)
The boundaries of this city shall be those existing on the effective date of the adoption of this charter with such alterations as may be made from time to time in the manner provided by law. The boundaries of this city at all times shall be shown on a map, a written description or any combination thereof, to be retained permanently in the office of city clerk and to be designated, as the case may be: "Official Map (or Description) of the Corporate Limits of the City of Lilburn, Georgia." Photographic, typed, or other copies of such map or description certified by the city shall be admitted as evidence in all courts and shall have the same force and effect as with the original map or description.
(b)
The city council may provide for the redrawing of any such map by ordinance to reflect lawful changes in the corporate boundaries. A redrawn map shall supersede for all purposes the entire map or maps which it is designated to replace.
Section 1.12. - Powers and construction.
(a)
This city shall have all powers possible for a city to have under the present or future constitution and laws of this state as fully and completely as though they were specifically enumerated in this charter. This city shall have all the powers of self-government not otherwise prohibited by this charter or by general law.
(b)
The powers of this city shall be construed liberally in favor of the city. The specific mention or failure to mention particular powers shall not be construed as limiting in any way the powers of this city.
Section 1.13. - Exercise of powers.
All powers, functions, rights, privileges, and immunities of the city, its officers, agencies, or employees shall be carried into execution as provided by this charter. If this charter makes no provision, such shall be carried into execution as provided by ordinance or by pertinent laws of the State of Georgia.
