ARTICLE V. - ELECTIONS AND REMOVAL
A. - GENERAL LAW

Section 5.10. - Applicability of general law.
All primaries and elections shall be held and conducted in accordance with Chapter 2 of Title 21 of the O.C.G.A., the "Georgia Election Code," as now or hereafter amended.
B. - ELECTION OF OFFICERS

Section 5.11. - Regular elections; time for holding.
The city council shall cause an election to be held at the city hall or such other place in the city as the council shall direct and designate on the Tuesday next following the first Monday in November, 1989, and on such day biennially thereafter. All elections and notice thereof shall in all respects be held in compliance with Chapter 3 of Title 21 of the O.C.G.A. The mayor and council members shall be elected pursuant to Code Section 21-2-541.1 of the O.C.G.A. The terms of office of the mayor and two council persons whose terms of office would normally expire at the first organizational meeting in January, 1990, shall expire on December 31, 1989. The terms of office of the two council persons whose terms of office would normally expire at the first organizational meeting in January 1992, shall expire on December 31, 1991. The mayor and each member of the council elected pursuant to the Act shall be elected for a term of office of four years and until his or her successor is elected and qualified and shall take office on the first day of January immediately following his or her election.
Section 5.12. - Qualifying; nomination of candidates; absentee ballots.
By ordinance the city council may prescribe rules and regulations governing qualifying fees, nomination of candidates, absentee ballots, write-in votes, challenge of votes, and such other rules and regulations as may be necessary for the conduct of elections in the city.
Section 5.13. - Nonpartisan elections.
Political parties shall not conduct primaries for city offices and all names of candidates for city offices shall be listed without party designations.
Section 5.14. - Election by plurality.
The person receiving a plurality of the votes cast for any city office shall be elected.
C. - VACANCIES

Section 5.15. - Special elections; vacancies.
In the event that the office of mayor or council member shall become vacant as provided in Section 2.12 of this charter, the city council or those remaining shall order a special election to fill the balance of the unexpired term of such official; provided, however, if such vacancy occurs within 12 months of the expiration of the term of that office, the city council or those remaining shall appoint a successor for the remainder of the term. In all other respects, the special election shall be held and conducted in accordance with Chapter 2 of Title 21 of the O.C.G.A., the "Georgia Election Code," as now or hereafter amended.
D. - OTHER PROVISIONS

Section 5.16. - Other provisions.
Except as otherwise provided by this charter, the city council shall, by ordinance, prescribe such rules and regulations it deems appropriate to fulfill any options and duties under the Georgia Municipal Election Code.
Section 5.17. - Removal of officers.
(a)
The mayor, council members, or other appointed officers provided for in this charter shall be removed from office for any one or more of the causes provided in Title 45 of the O.C.G.A., or such other applicable laws as are or may hereafter be enacted.
(b)
Removal of an officer pursuant to subsection (a) of this section shall be accomplished one of the following methods.
(1)
Following a hearing at which an impartial panel shall render a decision. In the event an elected officer is sought to be removed by the action of the city council, such officer shall be entitled to a written notice specifying the ground or grounds for removal and to a public hearing which shall be held not less than ten days after the service of such written notice. Removal may be accomplished by three-fifths' vote of entire council. The city council shall provide by ordinance for the manner in which such hearings shall be held. Any elected officer sought to be removed from office as herein provided shall have the right of appeal from the decision of the city council to the Superior Court of Gwinnett County. Such appeal shall be governed by the same rules as govern appeals to the superior court from the probate court.
(2)
By an order of the Superior Court of Gwinnett County following a hearing on a complaint seeking such removal brought by any resident of the City of Lilburn.
(3)
By a recall election. A recall of an incumbent of an elective office shall be initiated upon a written request to that effect signed by at least 30 percent of the registered voters eligible to vote for such office in the last preceding general municipal election. The council shall prescribe rules and regulations governing the initiation and preparation of such written request and the procedures for holding the recall election.
Section 5.18. - Organization of council.
The new council members shall be sworn in by the city attorney and the oath of office shall be administered to the newly elected members as follows:
"I do solemnly swear (or affirm) that I will well and truly perform the duties of (mayor or Council Member as the case may be) of the City of Lilburn, Georgia, and that I will support and defend the charter thereof as well as the Constitution and laws of the State of Georgia and of the United States of America. I do further solemnly swear and affirm that I am not the holder of any unaccounted for public money due this State or any political subdivision or authority thereof; that I am not the holder of any office of trust under the government of the United States, any other state, or any foreign state which, by the laws of the State of Georgia I am prohibited from holding; that I am otherwise qualified to hold said office, according to the Constitution and Laws of Georgia, and that I will support the Constitution of the United States and of this State."
Section 5.19. - Temporary vacancies.
Pursuant to the authority set forth in subsection (d) of Code Section 45-5-6 of the O.C.G.A., for the duration of any suspension of any elected member of the governing authority of the City of Lilburn, a replacement officer for the public officer suspended shall be appointed at any regular or specially called meeting of the governing authority. The person appointed shall have all authority thereafter as is possessed by an elected person for the same position. The person appointed shall serve for the duration of the suspension or the expiration of the term of office for which said appointment has been made, whichever shall first occur. Should the suspended person be finally convicted, the office of the said public official shall be considered permanently vacant and shall be filled pursuant to Section 5.15 of the charter of the City of Lilburn, as amended.
