ARTICLE XIV. - REQUIRED SUBDIVISION IMPROVEMENTS

Section 141. - Monuments.
Right-of-way and property line monuments shall be placed in each subdivision in accordance with the following:
141.1. Right-of-way monuments. A concrete marker imbedded at least two feet into the ground shall be required at the intersection of the centerline of all street rights-of-way. Such concrete marker shall be at least four inches in diameter. The top surface of such concrete marker shall be level with the surface of the street.
141.2. Property line monument. An iron pin imbedded at least two feet into the ground shall be required at each lot corner and each point where the property line changes direction and no more than 1,400 feet apart in any straight line. Where property lines follow rivers or streams, the meander lines shall be established and monumented not less than 20 feet back from the bank of such river or stream, except that when such corners or points fall within a street, or proposed future street, the monuments shall be placed on the right-of-way line of the street. Such iron pins shall be at least five-eighths inches in diameter. The top surface of such iron pin shall be approximately level with the ground surface.
141.3. Lot lines extending into rivers and streams. The lines of lots that extend into rivers or streams shall be monumented in the field by iron pins of not less than two feet long and five-eighths inches in diameter. Such iron pins shall be placed at the point of intersection of the lot line with a meander line established not less than 20 feet back from the bank of the river or stream.
Section 142. - Special classification of streets for construction.
All streets shall be classified for construction purposes only as follows:
142.1. Class I street. A class I street shall be paved, curbed and guttered in accordance with the specifications required herein, and shall be required in all zoning districts except R-1 and R-1A and R-2 residential districts but may be so located if the subdivider so desires. Right-of-way width requirements shall be in accordance with section 133 herein.
142.2. Class II street. A class II street shall be paved in accordance with the specifications required herein but no curbs and gutters shall be required and shall be required as a minimum in R-2 residential zoning district but may be located in R-l and R-1A residential districts if the subdivider so desires. The minimum right-of-way width for all class II streets shall be 65 feet and if such streets are ever improved to class I type street by the council, the cost of such improvements shall be in accordance with section 148.73 herein.
Section 143. - Additional street design requirements.
143.1. Grades, horizontal curves, tangents, and sight distances. The following street design requirements shall be adhered to in addition to other requirements stated herein:
EXPAND
Expressways,
Freeways,
Arterial
Streets Collector
Streets Other
Streets
Maximum street grades 6% 8% 12%
Minimum radii of center line curvature 800′ 500′ 100′
Minimum length of tangent between reverse curves 300′ 200′ 100′
Minimum stopping sight distance 350′ 240′ 200′
  143.2. Vertical curves. All changes in grade shall be connected by vertical curves of minimum length in feet equal to 15 times the algebraic difference in percent of grades for expressways, freeways, arterial and collector streets, and one-half this minimum length for other streets. Profiles of all streets showing natural and finished grades drawn to a scale of not less than one inch equals 100 feet horizontally and one inch equals 20 feet vertically may be required by the commission.
Section 144. - Basic construction requirements for all classes of streets.
144.1. Grading. All streets, roads and alleys shall be graded to their full width by the subdivider so that pavements and sidewalks, where required or if installed in the future, can be constructed on the same level plane. The preparation of the right-of-way before grading is started and the construction of cuts and fills shall be accomplished in accordance with the requirements herein and other specifications of the council.
144.2. Storm drainage. An adequate drainage system based on a least the ten-year rainfall frequency including necessary curb, pipes, culverts, headwalls, and ditches shall be provided for the proper drainage of all surface water. All culverts that are installed shall be either concrete, asphalt coated galvanized, aluminum, or a DOT approved double wall plastic pipe.
144.3. Installation of utilities. After grading is completed and approved and before any base is applied, all of the underground utilities - water mains, sewer mains, gas mains, and all service connections related thereto - shall be installed completely and approved throughout the length of the street and across the flat section. All driveways for houses to be built by the subdivider shall be cut and drained. Where the utility mains are off the pavement, the subdivider may elect to omit the installation of service connections providing that at such time as these service connections are needed, they may be jacked across the street without breaking or weakening the existing pavement.
144.4. Slopes and shoulder improvements. The minimum ratio for all fill or cut slopes shall be two to one and the minimum width for all shoulders from back edge of curb, if installed, shall be eight feet. All shoulders shall slope ½ inch to the foot. When all construction is completed, all slopes and shoulders shall be cleared of all rubbish and will be hydro-seeded and mulched with Bermuda seed.
144.5. Reserved.
144.6. Road striping. all new roads shall be provided with a five inch wide solid double yellow center line. The lines shall be constructed in accordance with section 652 of the Georgia Department of Transportation specification.
144.7. Reserved.
144.8. Reserved.
144.9. Erosion control: Before commencement of any land disturbing activity, a land disturbance permit must be obtained from the planning and zoning office. All erosion and sedimentation control methods shown on the plan approved by the natural resources conservation service will be installed and inspected by the city superintendent or the zoning director prior to any land disturbance. All silt fences will be trenched into the ground a minimum of six inches with a mechanical trencher. All requirements of City of Gray Soil Erosion and Sedimentation Control Ordinance and sections 161, 162, 163 and 171, pages 108-128 of the Georgia Department of Transportation Standard Specifications Construction of Roads and Bridges, 1993 Edition will be met. All required erosion and sedimentation control methods will be maintained until final stabilization is achieved.
144.10. Clearing and grubbing: Clearing and grubbing shall begin after all erosion control measures are properly installed. The clearing operation will be checked periodically by the city superintendent or the zoning director. All clearing has to be completed and approved by the city superintendent or the zoning director before grading can begin. All clearing and grubbing will be performed in accordance with section 201, pages 129-134 of the Georgia Department of Transportation Standard Specifications Construction of Roads and Bridges, 1993 Edition.
144.11. Subgrade construction: Grading construction operations will begin after the clearing and grubbing has been approved by the city superintendent or the zoning director. The streets will be graded according to the typical section found in section 145.6 of this ordinance. The city superintendent or the zoning director will do periodic checks during the grading operations and call for compaction tests as needed. 95 percent compaction is required with the last six inches being 100 percent compaction. Any unsuitable material is to be removed and replaced. All subgrade construction will be performed in accordance with section 209, pages 156-159 of the Georgia Department of Transportation Standard Specifications Construction of Roads and Bridges, 1993 Edition.
144.12. Graded aggregate construction: After the top six inches of subgrade have been completed per the typical section found in section 145.6, have achieved 100 percent compaction and been approved by the city superintendent or the zoning director, the contractor may begin placing graded aggregate base material. The base shall be six inches thick with 100 percent compaction as shown in the typical section. All graded aggregate base construction will be performed in accordance with section 310, pages 226-230 of the Georgia Department of Transportation Standard Specifications Construction of Roads and Bridges, 1993 Edition.
144.13. Bituminous prime: After the graded aggregate base operations are complete with a 100 percent compaction that conforms to the typical section and has been approved by the city superintendent or zoning director, it shall be primed. After the prime has been applied, a seven day waiting period is needed for curing. All bituminous prime will be applied in accordance with section 412, pages 283-285 of the Georgia Department of Transportation Standard Specifications Construction of Roads and Bridges, 1993 Edition.
144.14. Hot mix recycled asphaltic concrete: After the curing period is complete on the bituminous prime, the contractor can begin placing the two inches of recycled asphaltic concrete "B" binder. After the binder material has been in place for 2½ years, the contractor will place the one inch of recycled asphaltic concrete "E" mix. Both layers of the recycled asphaltic concrete are to have a compaction of 96 percent of the theoretical density. All recycled asphaltic concrete will be applied in accordance with sections 402 and 828, pages 270-273, 919-924 of the Georgia Department of Transportation Standard Specifications Construction of Roads and Bridges, 1993 Edition.
144.15. Testing: Engineering analysis shall be performed according to the following matrix:
EXPAND
TYPE OF TESTS TO BE PERFORMED MINIMUM NUMBER OF TESTS TO BE PERFORMED TESTING STANDARD
Subgrade Compaction
(Density - in place)
Subgrade Fill Compaction One per 500 Linear Feet of Roadway
One per every two to three feet of Vertical Fill 95% Maximum Density
ASTM - 1557, D-1556, D-2992, & D-2167
100% Maximum Density on the final 6".
Base Compaction (Density-in place)
Depth Check One per 500 Linear Feet of Roadway
(Same as Compaction) 100% Maximum Density
ASTM - 1557
Modified Proctor
Asphaltic Concrete
(Density - in place) One per 1,000
Linear Feet of Roadway 92% Laboratory
Density
  144.16. Required Notification. The developer shall notify the city superintendent, or other authorized city official, a minimum of 24 hours in advance when the roadway is ready to be tested.
144.17. Financial Responsibility. The developer will be financially responsible to the testing agency for all required tests.
144.18. Proofroll. All sub-base base will be load tested with a minimum 18 ton tandem dump, or equal, to cover base thoroughly by lapping the tires on width each pass to assure a minimum tolerance of ½ inch of settling and to insure no cracking or pumping prior to paving. This is to be witnessed by the city superintendent, zoning director, or designated city representative.
(Ord. No. 07-O-003, 3-5-2007)
Section 145. - Roadway surfacing and paving.
For class I and class II streets, the following minimum requirements shall be adhered to for the surfacing and paving of said streets:
145.1. Pavement base. The pavement bases, not including the surface courses, shall be one of the following types and shall be of the following minimum thickness as designated for each street classification:
EXPAND
Other
Streets
(Inches) Collector
Streets
(Inches) Expressways,
Freeways,
Arterial
Streets (Inches)
Graded aggregate base 6 7 8
Soil bituminous stabilized base 6 7 8
Soil bound macadam base 6 7 8
Soil cement base 6 7 8
  145.2. Thickness of pavement. The pavement shall be one of the following types and shall be designated for each street classification:
EXPAND
Other
Streets
(Inches) Collector
Streets
(Inches) Expressways,
Freeways,
Arterial
Streets
(Inches)
Portland cement concrete 6 7 8
Asphaltic plant mixed surface (one approved type base) 2 2¾* 3½**
   *The 2¾ inches consists of 1½-inch binder and 1¼-inch surface.
**The 3½ inches consists of 2-inch binder and 1½-inch surface.
145.3. Minimum pavement width. All minor residential streets shall have a minimum pavement width of 27 feet from back of curb to back of curb, or 24 feet from edge of pavement to edge of pavement if no curb and gutters are installed. All other street width pavements shall be determined by the commission and the council as required.
145.4. Pavement breaks for utility connections. When it is necessary for a subdivider, or any utility company, to break existing pavement for the installation of utilities, for drainage facilities, or for any other purpose, the subdivider, or utility company, shall be financially responsible for the repair of the pavement. The pavement shall be repaired in accordance with the specifications required herein for construction of streets.
145.5. Curbs and gutters. Either the regular six-inch or four-inch rollover concrete curbs and gutters with a minimum overall width of 24 inches shall be constructed on all class I streets. Cement concrete valley gutter shall be permitted across minor residential streets at street intersections only when no storm sewers are available as determined by the zoning enforcement officer. Valley gutters shall be at least six feet in width. Whenever driveway openings are provided for lots abutting the street, the driveway shall be six inches thick and a minimum of ten feet in width at the sidewalk or at the street right-of-way line. The driveway shall have a three-foot radii at the curb line. Where ditches are used for drainage, culverts and driveways providing access to each lot shall be installed. Culverts thus installed shall be sufficient for adequate drainage and shall be installed so as to be resistant to damage from future construction or maintenance activities. When a road with curb and gutter intersects with an existing road without curb and gutter, valley curb will be required within ten feet of the intersection. No other type of curbing will be permitted in this area.
145.6. Typical section. The typical section for subdivision streets as shown on the attached Exhibit "A" to this ordinance shall be the official typical section for the city and a copy shall be kept on file in the offices of the city superintendent and the zoning official.
(Ord. No. 07-O-003, 3-5-2007)
Section 146. - Installation of utilities.
146.1. Water. All subdivisions developed in the City of Gray shall be connected to the city water system subject to the following conditions: Water mains for both domestic use and fire protection shall be properly connected with the public water system of the City of Gray, unless existing city water mains are not available if any part of a city water main is within 500 feet of said subdivision. If the city offers to provide water mains to a point within 500 feet of said subdivision, then water will be considered available. Should city water mains be unavailable then the developer shall provide an alternate water supply as approved by the Jones County Health Officer. The lines shall be constructed in such a manner as to serve adequately all lots shown on the subdivision plat. The lines shall be installed in conformance with the technical standards as established by the council. Any developer of a subdivision may request a variance pursuant to section 114.3 (variances) of these regulations should the requirement of this section create an unnecessary hardship.
146.2. Gas. When gas mains are connected with the gas distribution system of the City of Gray, the lines shall be installed in such a manner as to serve adequately all lots shown on the subdivision plats. The gas lines shall be constructed in conformance with the technical standards as established by the council.
(Ord. of 5-4-1998(2), § 1; Ord. of 1-4-1999, § 1)
Section 147. - Sidewalks and street signs.
147.1. Location of sidewalks. Sidewalks shall be provided in each subdivision as follows:
R-1 residential—None.
R-1A residential—None.
R-2 residential—Only on one side of street.
R-3 residential—Both sides of the street.
Other zoning districts—As required by the commission.
147.2. Sidewalk dimensions. Unless otherwise specified, all sidewalks shall be four inches thick with a minimum width of four feet. A 30-inch grass planting strip shall be provided between the back of the curb and the sidewalk. For class II streets, the sidewalk shall be located on the right-of-way line side of the drainage ditch located parallel to the street. All sidewalks shall slope one-fourth inch to the foot toward the curb.
147.3. Street signs required. All new or existing roads, public or private, which are included in a subdivision shall be furnished and installed with street name signs as specified in section 147.4. All necessary traffic signs (slow, stop, caution, school bus stop, etc.) will be furnished and installed at proper locations. Materials for signs shall be approved by the city and all expenses incurred will be borne by the developer at no cost to the city.
147.4. Location of street signs. All streets shall be designated by name on a metal street sign post approved by the council with such metal post having nameplates of metal set one above the other with a clearance of seven feet. The post shall be so located as to be visible for both pedestrian and vehicular traffic. At cross-street intersections, two street sign posts shall be located diagonally across the intersection from each other. Only one street sign post shall be required at T-street intersections.
147.5. Installation of street lighting.
147.51. Street lights shall be provided by the developer in new subdivisions which propose the construction of a new street to be dedicated to the city, or which propose lot access to existing city streets. All fees, materials, labor, poles, fixtures, and any other associated items shall be furnished, paid for and installed by the developer. Street lighting shall be installed and operating prior to approval of the final plat.
147.52 In all cases, guidelines related to materials, distances between poles, height, and any other relevant specifications shall be adhered to as set forth in the American National Standard Practice for Roadway Lighting and as specified by the power provider for the project.
147.53 A street lighting plan developed by the supplying utility company shall accompany the preliminary plat. This plan shall be reviewed and approved by the city for compliance with the requirements of the national standard as part of the preliminary plat approval process.
147.54. The developer will be responsible for lighting costs until the city assumes responsibility. The city shall take over payment of the monthly energy charges from the owner/developer once the development is 50 percent complete based on issued certificate of occupancys, and after a written request is received from the developer/builder to take over monthly costs.
147.55. All fixtures and poles shall meet the requirements of the city, and all maintenance costs shall be the responsibility of the utility company. Fixtures shall be mounted a minimum of 16 feet above the ground and each fixture shall have appropriate arm length to illuminate the street and be decarative in nature, unless otherwise approved by the city. The city, in addition to other requirements, may require a light to be located at street intersections within the development.
(Ord. 07-O-003, 3-5-2007; Ord. No. 19-O-002, § 1, 3-4-2019)
Section 148. - Administrative procedures.
The administrative procedures for installing the subdivision improvements required herein shall be as follows:
148.1. When construction may begin. Construction and installation of any required public improvements as described herein shall not begin until the commission has given preliminary approval of the new subdivision. The subdivider shall then confer with the zoning enforcement officer to determine the method and estimated cost of the construction and installation of the required improvements.
148.2. Inspections and approval by the council. During the construction and installation of the required public improvements, the zoning enforcement officer shall from time-to-time make field inspections and supervise said work as predetermined and agreed upon by the zoning enforcement officer and the subdivider. After completion of all the construction and installation of the required public improvements and if the said work has met the specifications as described herein, as determined by the zoning enforcement officer, the zoning enforcement officer shall notify the subdivider in writing of the approval of said work.
148.3. Official acceptance by the council. The council shall officially accept the completed work on the construction and installation of required public improvements one year from the date of the written acceptance by the zoning enforcement officer.
148.4. Performance bond. If the subdivider does not wish to construct and install any required public improvements as described herein prior to submitting the subdivision plat to the commission for final approval, a performance bond shall be required, such bond being equal to the estimated cost of construction. When the work has been completed satisfactorily, the council shall release 90 percent of the funds in escrow with a letter of approval to the subdivider. The remaining ten percent shall remain in escrow for maintenance purposes.
148.5. Maintenance of completed work. The subdivider shall maintain his completed work until the official acceptance by the council as described in section 148.4 above. The subdivider shall be required to sign a maintenance bond agreement with the council. If a maintenance bond is posted by the subdivider, a bond equaling ten percent of the construction cost shall be required. During the maintenance period, the zoning enforcement officer shall make final inspection and notify the subdivider and the bonding company, or in cases where funds are being held in escrow, the cost of making such corrections shall be deducted from these funds, and the subdivider charged with any costs above the amount of escrow funds. If the work is acceptable at this time, the remaining ten percent of the escrow funds shall be released to the subdivider.
148.6. Cost of improvements.
148.61. Subdivider's responsibility. The subdivider shall incur the cost of construction and installation of all required public improvements based on the following:
(1)
Streets. Incur the cost for the construction of streets up to 27 feet in pavement width from back of curb, to back of curb, or 24 feet in pavement width from edge of pavement to edge of pavement if no curbs and gutters are installed.
(2)
Water and sewer systems. Incur the cost for the installation of 211 water and sewer systems which is required to serve the new subdivision and tie in with existing water and sewer system, based on the specifications set forth herein.
(3)
Sidewalks. Entire cost.
(4)
Monuments. Entire cost.
(5)
Traffic control and street signs. Entire cost.
148.62. Council's responsibility. The council shall partially participate in sharing the cost of construction and installation of required public improvements for the following conditions:
(1)
Streets. Incur cost for any additional required pavement which in excess of 27 feet for streets with curbs and gutters and in excess of 24 feet for streets without curbs and gutters, and any additional grading and paving related thereto.
(2)
Water and sewer systems. Incur cost for any difference in the cost of the laying of oversized pipe and outfall systems which are needed in excess of the required water and sewer facilities needed to exclusively serve the new subdivision as determined by the commission and council.
148.63. Property owner's responsibility. Whenever the council is petitioned by the property owners to upgrade a class II street to class I, the property owners shall then incur the entire cost for said improvements based on the footage along the property line of each lot abutting the street which is being improved and on the requirements in section 148.71 [sic] above.
148.64. Estimated costs for construction and installation. The current unit prices in effect at the time of submission of plans shall be used in determining the total estimated cost for construction and installation of required public improvements in new subdivisions.
Section 149. - Storm drainage and stormwater management.
Prior to commencement of construction, subdivider shall provide a storm drainage plan to the commission for approval. Said plan shall include accurate existing and proposed watercourses and the system of open channels, pipes, culverts, drains, inlet, catch basins, and similar facilities designed to handle stormwater in times of rainstorms. The calculations used in the design of such systems and plans shall clearly indicate the easements required in the construction and maintenance of the drainage system and said easements shall be shown on the final plat. Further, the subdivider shall comply with all stormwater ordinance requirements of the City of Gray. No development will be approved to proceed that does not address runoff and drainage issues.
(Ord. No. 05-O-004, 4-4-2005; Ord. No. 07-O-002, 3-5-2007)
