ARTICLE III. - DEFINITIONS OF TERMS USED IN THIS ORDINANCE

Section 31. - General.
Except as otherwise provided herein, all words shall have the customary dictionary meaning. The present tense includes the future tense and the future tense includes the present tense. The singular number includes the plural and the plural includes the singular. The word "person" includes a firm, corporation, association, organization, trust or partnership. The word "lot" includes "plot" or "parcel." The word "building" includes "structure." The word "shall" is always mandatory. The word "used" or "occupied" as applied to any land or building shall be construed to include the words "intended, arranged, or designed to be used or occupied." The word "map" means the "Official Zoning Districts Map for the City of Gray, Georgia." Doubt as to the precise meaning of any word used in these regulations shall be clarified by the Gray City Council.
Section 32. - Specific definitions.
When used in this ordinance, the following words and phrases shall have the meaning given in this section:
(1)
Accessory use. A use customarily incidental to the principal use of land.
(2)
Alley. A public way dedicated to and accepted by a governing body, providing a secondary means of access to abutting properties.
(2.1)
Automobile detail center. Any premises or portions thereof for the purpose of handwashing automobiles, without the use of equipment for automatic or semiautomatic application of cleaner, brushes, wax, rinse water or heat for drying.
(3)
Automobile service station. Any area of land, including any buildings or structures thereon, that is used to dispense motor vehicle fuels, oils, and accessories at retail, and where repair service is incidental and no storage or parking space is offered for rent.
(4)
Block. A piece or parcel of land entirely surrounded by public highways or streets, other than alleys.
(5)
Boardinghouse. A building other than a hotel or motel where lodging is provided for compensation in durations of one week or more and for more than two but not more than 20 persons in more than two rooms that, individually or collectively, do not constitute separate dwelling units.
(6)
Buffer. A dense planting of shrubs and trees established and maintained to a height of not less than six feet on a strip of land not less than ten feet in width. Also includes areas along the course of any state waters to be maintained in an undisturbed and natural condition.
(7)
Building. Any structure attached to the ground and intended for shelter, housing, or enclosure of persons, animals, or chattels.
(8)
Building, accessory. A subordinate building, the use of which is incidental to that of the dominant use of the main building or land.
(9)
Building, alterations of. Any change in the supporting members of a building (such as bearing walls, beams, columns, and girders) except such change as may be required for its safety; and addition to a building; any change in use resulting from moving a building from one location to another.
(10)
Building, height of. The vertical distance from the average elevation of the proposed finished grade at the front of the building to the highest point of the roof for flat roofs, to the mean height level between the eaves and ridge for gable, hip, and gambrel roofs, and to the deck line for mansard roofs.
(11)
Building line. The line beyond which the foundation wall or any enclosed or covered porch, vestibule, or other enclosed or covered portion of a building shall not project.
(12)
Building, principal. The primary building on a lot or a building that houses the principal use on a lot.
(13)
Business, retail. A commercial establishment that generally sells commodities or services in varying quantities to the general public. These commodities or services are mainly for the use of the purchaser.
(14)
Business, wholesale. A commercial establishment that generally sells commodities or service in large quantities or by piece to retailers, contractors, other wholesale businesses, or manufacturing establishments. These commodities or services are mainly for resale, for use in the fabrication of a product, or for use by a business service.
(15)
Campground. Any lot upon which two or more recreational vehicles or tents are temporarily situated for a period of less than 30 days in any calendar year.
(16)
Change of use. The discontinuance of an existing land use and substitution of a use of a different kind or class in compliance with these regulations. Change of use does not include a change of tenants or proprietors, unless accompanied by a change in the type of use.
(17)
Clinic. A nonresidential establishment where patients are examined, diagnosed, and/or treated on an outpatient basis by licensed physicians, psychologists, psychiatrists, dentists, or chiropractors.
(18)
Club. Land and/or buildings owned or operated by a corporation, association, person, or persons for social, educational, or recreational purposes, which are provided to members, guests, or clients, but not primarily for profit or to render a service to the general public.
(19)
Cluster development. A residential subdivision within which individual lot sizes have been reduced to permit the creation of common open space for the residents of the subdivision. All cluster developments must satisfy the requirements specified in section 90 of this ordinance.
(20)
Commission. Mayor and council acting as Gray Planning and Zoning Commission.
(21)
Communication tower. A structure situated on a site that is intended for transmitting or receiving radio, television, or telephone communication signals.
(22)
Comprehensive plan. The Jones County/City of Gray Joint Comprehensive Plan.
(23)
Condominium. A form of individual ownership of a unit combined with joint ownership of common areas of the building and grounds in a development as provided in the Georgia Condominium Act.
(24)
Construction, actual. The commencement and continuous, uninterrupted prosecution of construction for the purpose of permanent placement and fastening of materials to the land or structure for which a permit required pursuant to these regulations has been issued for the same purposes. Construction includes filling, grading, the installation of drainage facilities, and the substantial demolition, clearing, excavation, or removal of an existing structure preparatory to new construction, provided that work shall be reasonably continuous until completion of the approved construction.
(25)
Convenience store. A retail store containing less than 2,000 square feet of gross floor area entirely in one story of a building that is designed and stocked to sell primarily food, beverages, sundries, and other grocery items to customers who purchase goods to satisfy special immediate needs (often characterized by impulse buying), as opposed to a "supermarket," which provides a wider range of goods which are intended to satisfy the full daily grocery needs of its customers. A convenience store is designed to attract and depends upon a large volume of stop and go traffic.
(26)
Cottage industry. An accessory business use which is conducted within an accessory building to the permanent dwelling unit of the business owner. All cottage industries shall comply with the relevant standards contained in article IX, section 95 of these regulations.
(27)
Council. The mayor and council for the City of Gray, Georgia.
(28)
Day care center. A service business operated by a person, society, agency, corporation, institution, or any other group which receives for pay seven or more children for group care, without transfer of custody, for more than four hours and less than 24 hours per day.
(29)
Day care home. A service business operated by any person, who receives for pay three to six children under 17 years of age for group care, without transfer of custody, for more than four hours and less than 24 hours per day.
(30)
Developable land area. That portion of a lot which does not consist of wetlands as delineated on the national wetland inventory maps for Gray (prepared by the U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service), slopes in excess of 25 percent, areas reserved for stormwater retention or detention, or special flood hazard areas (as identified by the National Flood Insurance Program).
(31)
District. A section of the City of Gray within which the zoning regulations are uniform.
(32)
Dwelling. A building designed or used for permanent living quarters for one or more families.
(33)
Dwelling, multifamily. A building designed for, or occupied exclusively by, three or more families living independently. This definition includes townhomes, senior housing, single family attached and other dwellings where three or more dwelling units are attached.
(34)
Dwelling, single-family (detached). A permanently sited building occupied or designed to be occupied exclusively by one family, not including dwellings defined herein as manufactured or mobile homes or single-family attached dwellings.
(35)
Dwelling, single-family (attached). One of a series of two or more single-family dwelling units on separate lots or in condominium ownership, which are joined at one or more points by one or more common walls or other common facilities, not including the walls of an enclosed courtyard or similar area.
(36)
Dwelling unit. A dwelling or portion thereof providing complete living facilities for one family.
(37)
Easement. A grant by a property owner of the use of land for a specific purpose or purposes by the general public, or a corporation or a certain person or persons.
(38)
Employee. Any person working in a business establishment, including a proprietor, owner, or partner, whether paid or unpaid, full-time or part-time.
(39)
Family. One or more persons occupying a dwelling and living as a single housekeeping unit, as distinguished from persons occupying a boardinghouse, lodginghouse, or hotel, as herein defined.
(40)
Frontage, lot. The distance for which the front boundary line of the lot and the street line are coincident.
(41)
Frontage, street. All the property on the side of a street between two intersecting streets (crossing or terminating), or if the street is dead ended, then all the property abutting on one side between an intersecting street and the dead end of the street.
(42)
Gross floor area. The total area of a building measured by taking the outside dimensions of the building at each floor level intended for occupancy or storage.
(43)
Hazardous materials. Any corrosive, flammable, toxic, or carcinogenic material, chemical, or substance that poses a serious threat to human health or welfare. Such substances do not include common household products and cleansers which may, by their nature, include hazardous materials, as long as they are used exclusively for their intended purpose and are not stored in quantities that are excessive for residential use.
(44)
Hazardous waste. Any material, chemical, or substance which, because of its quantity, concentration, or physical, chemical, or infectious characteristics may: (a) cause, or significantly contribute to an increase in mortality or an increase in serious irreversible, or incapacitating reversible illness; or (b) pose a substantial present or potential hazard to human health or the environment when improperly treated, stored, transported, disposed, or otherwise managed. This definition includes all solid wastes defined as "hazardous wastes" by the Board of Natural Resources under Chapter 391-3-11 of the "Rules of Georgia Department of Natural Resources, Environmental Protection Division" (as amended).
(45)
Home occupation. An accessory business use conducted entirely within a minor portion of a dwelling by the occupants thereof. Home occupations shall comply with the relevant standards contained in article IX, section 95 of these regulations.
(46)
Hotel/motel. A building, or portion thereof, or a group of buildings, which provides sleeping accommodations in six or more separate units or rooms for transients on a daily, weekly, or similar shortterm bases. Where such establishment is permitted as a principal use, all uses customarily accessory thereto for the comfort, accommodation, and entertainment of patrons, including restaurants, but not including bars, taverns, and nightclubs unless specifically permitted, shall be permitted uses.
(47)
Junkyard. A lot, parcel of land, structure, or part thereof, used primarily for the collection, storage, and sale of wastepaper, rags, scrap metal, or discarded material, or for the collecting, dismantling, storage, and salvaging of machinery or vehicles not in running condition, or for the sale of parts thereof.
(48)
Junked vehicle. A vehicle not in operating condition, which has been parked or stored upon the same lot or parcel for a period of 15 days or more.
(49)
Land development. The division of a parcel of lot of record into two or more lots; the construction, reconstruction, conversion, structural alteration, relocation, or enlargement of any building or other structure, or of any mining, excavation, or landfill; and any change in the use of any building or other structure or land, or extension of the use of land.
(50)
Laundry, commercial. An establishment with facilities for laundering clothes, linens, and similar items, the facilities of which are not for hire.
(51)
Laundry and dry cleaning pickup. An establishment providing for the taking and picking up of laundry, but not having equipment for the processing of laundry.
(52)
Laundry, self-service. A business that provides home-type washing, drying, or ironing machines for hire.
(53)
Lot. A parcel of land occupied or to be occupied by one or more main buildings and its accessory buildings with such open and parking spaces as are required by the provisions of this ordinance and having its frontage upon a public street or streets.
(54)
Manufactured home. A structure, transportable in one or more sections, which, in the traveling mode, is eight body feet or more in width or 40 body feet or more in length or, when erected on site, is 320 or more square feet and which is built on a permanent chassis and designed to be used as a dwelling with or without a permanent foundation when connected to the required utilities and includes the plumbing, heating, air conditioning, and electrical systems contained therein; except that such term shall include any structure which meets all the requirements of this paragraph except the size requirements and, with respect to which, the manufacturer voluntarily files a certification required by the secretary of housing and urban development and complies with the standards established under the National Manufactured Home Construction and Safety Standards Act of 1974, 42 USC 5401 et seq.
(55)
Manufactured home park. Any lot where manufactured homes are customarily parked for a longer period of time than 30 days for living or sleeping purposes, or where spaces are set aside and offered for rent for use by manufactured homes for living or sleeping purposes, including any land, building, structure, or facility used by occupants of manufactured homes on such premises.
(56)
Mobile home. A structure, transportable in one or more sections, which, in the traveling mode, is eight body feet or more in width or 40 body feet or more in length or, when erected on site, is 320 or more square feet and which is built on a permanent chassis and designed to be used as a dwelling with or without a permanent foundation when
connected to the required utilities and includes the plumbing, heating, air conditioning, and electrical systems contained therein and manufactured prior to June 15, 1976.
(57)
Mobile home park. Any lot where mobile homes are customarily parked for a longer period of time than 30 days for living or sleeping purposes, or where spaces are set aside and offered for rent for use by mobile homes for living or sleeping purposes, including any land, building, structure, or facility used by occupants of mobile homes on such premises.
(58)
Modular home. A factory fabricated transportable building consisting of units designed to be incorporated at a building site on a permanent foundation into a permanent structure to be used for residential purposes and which bears a seal of compliance with regulations of either the Southern Building Code Congress International[, Inc.,] or the Georgia Industrialized Building Act.
(59)
Motel. See definition of hotel.
(60)
Nonconforming use. A use of land existing at the time of the enactment of this ordinance or at the time of a zoning amendment and which does not conform with the regulations of the use district in which it is located.
(61)
Nursing home. A facility maintained for the purpose of providing skilled nursing care and medical supervision at a lower level than that available in a hospital to more than three persons.
(62)
Open space. A yard area which is not used for or occupied by a dwelling, driveway, off-street parking lot, loading space, drying yard, or refuse storage space.
(63)
Personal care home. A building, group of buildings, facility, or place operated by a person, firm[,] corporation, association, organization, trust, or partnership not legally related to the individuals served and licensed by the State of Georgia to provide community alternatives in a residential environment to institutional care for individuals in need of such care and providing a residence for such persons. Such facilities provide room, board, personal and physical care, and supervision in a family environment. The term "personal care home" shall include, but shall not be limited to, homes as established under the Georgia "Community Services Act for the Mentally Retarded" (1972 Ga. Laws, p. 200), and facilities of similar intention and purpose, but shall not include facilities housing persons convicted of crimes but not housed in penal institutions.
(64)
Personal care home, congregate. A personal care home which offers care to 16 or more persons.
(65)
Personal care home, family. A personal care home in a family-type residence, noninstitutional in character and appearance, which offers care to two to six persons.
(66)
Personal care home, group. A personal care home in a residence or other type of building or buildings, noninstitutional in character, which offers care to seven to 15 persons.
(67)
Planning and zoning commission. The mayor and council of the City of Gray acting as planning and zoning commission.
(68)
Plat. A map, plan or layout of a county, city, town, section, or subdivision indicating the location and boundaries of properties.
(69)
Professional. When used in connection with "use," "office," and "occupancy," a use or occupancy by persons generally engaged in rendering personal, executive, sales, or administrative services or activities, including but not limited to accountants, architects, engineers, land surveyors, doctors, lawyers, insurance offices, real estate offices, religious organizations, stockbrokers, and administrative agencies considered professional in character. Occupations that are considered professional in nature typically are represented by national organizations which promulgate ethical codes and standards of quality for persons employed in that trade. These national organizations also provide a forum for exchange of ideas and may issue licenses for persons practicing the professional trade. This term does not include repairs or sales of tangible personal property stored or located on the premises or any use which would create any loud noise, noxious odors, hazardous wastes, or air emissions.
(70)
Recreational vehicle (travel trailer). A vehicular portable structure designed as a temporary dwelling, containing not more than 320 square feet of floor area and not more than eight feet in width.
(71)
Residential child care facility. An institution, society, agency, or facility providing full-time care for children under 17 years of age outside of their own homes, including temporary shelters or other facilities for children and their families or portions thereof. This term shall include "child caring institutions," as defined in the Georgia Children and Youth Act (O.C.G.A. ยง 49-5-1), but shall not include foster family homes.
(72)
Reserved.
(73)
Reserved.
(74)
Structure. Anything constructed or erected, the use of which requires a location on the ground, or attached to something having a location on the ground.
(75)
Subdivider. Any person who undertakes the subdivision of land as herein defined.
(76)
Subdivision. Any division of a tract or parcel of land into two or more lots, building sites or other divisions for the purpose, whether immediate or future, of sale, legacy or building development, and includes any division of land involving a new street or a change in existing streets, and includes resubdivision and, where appropriate to the context, relates to the process as subdividing or to the land or area subdivided; provided, however, that the following are not included in this definition:
(a)
The division of land into parcels of five acres or more where each lot has at least 150 feet of frontage on an existing public road and no new street is involved; and
(b)
The sale or exchange of parcels of land between separate or common owners of adjoining properties, provided that additional lots are not thereby created, and that the lots created are in accordance with the provisions of this ordinance.
(77)
Travel trailer park. Any lot on which are temporarily parked two or more travel trailers for a period of less than 30 days.
(78)
Yard. A space on the same lot with a main building, such space being open, unoccupied and unobstructed by buildings or structures from ground to sky except where encroachments and accessory buildings are expressly permitted.
(79)
Yard, front. An open, unoccupied space on the same lot with the main building, extending the full width of the lot and situated between the right-of-way line and the front line of the building projected to the side lines of the lot. The depth of the front yard shall be measured between the front line of the building and the right-of-way line. Covered porches, whether enclosed or unenclosed, shall be considered as part of the main building and shall not project into a required front yard. On corner lots, the front yard shall be considered as parallel to the street upon which the lot has its least dimension.
(80)
Yard, rear. An open space on the same lot with the main building, such space being unoccupied except possibly by an accessory building and extending the full width of the lot and situated between the rear line of the lot and the rear line of the main building projected to the sidelines of the lot. On all corner lots, the rear yard shall be at the opposite end of the lot from the front yard.
(81)
Yard, side. An open, unoccupied space on the same lot with a main building, situated between the side line of the building and the adjacent side line of the lot extending from the rear line of the front yard to the front line of the rear yard. If no front yard is required the rear boundary of the side yard shall be the rear line of the lot. On corner lots, the side yard shall be considered as parallel to the street upon which the lot has its greatest dimension.
(Ord. of 5-5-1997; Ord. of 1-3-00; Ord. of 5-9-2014)
