ARTICLE XI. - ZONING ADMINISTRATION[2]

Footnotes:
--- (2) ---
Cross reference— Administration, ch. 2.

Section 111. - Duties and powers of the zoning enforcement officer.
The zoning enforcement officer shall be the building inspector of the City of Gray, Georgia, or any public official of the said city designated by the mayor and council of the said city if there is no building inspector whose duties and powers are as follows:
111.1. The zoning enforcement officer is authorized and empowered on behalf and in the name of the council to administer and enforce the provisions of this ordinance to include receiving applications, inspecting premises, and issuing certificates of zoning compliance and certificates of occupancy for uses and structures which are in conformance with the provisions of this ordinance. The zoning enforcement officer or his duly authorized representative may enter any building, structure or premises to perform any duty imposed upon him by this ordinance.
111.2. The zoning enforcement officer does not have the authority to take final action on applications or matters involving variances, nonconforming uses, or other exceptions which this ordinance has reserved for public hearings before the board of zoning appeals, the commission, and/or the council.
111.3. The zoning enforcement officer shall keep records of all and any permits, the certificates of occupancy issued, and all submitted subdivision plats, with notations of all special conditions involved. He shall file and safely keep copies of all sketches and plans submitted, and the same shall form a part of the records of his office and shall be made as a public record.
111.4. The zoning enforcement officer shall assign a street number to each lot in a proposed subdivision at the time of preliminary plat approval. Said numbers shall be recorded upon copies of the preliminary plat returned to the subdivider and retained by the zoning enforcement officer and mayor and city council of Gray.
111.5. The zoning enforcement officer shall ensure that proper notice of the actions of the mayor and city council of Gray is provided.
Section 112. - Permits and certificates.
Permits and certificates shall be issued in accordance with the following provisions:
112.1. Zoning compliance permit. The zoning enforcement officer shall issue a zoning compliance permit, which may be incorporated into the building permit issued under the building code adopted and in effect by the council, for any permitted use or structural alteration provided such proposed use of land or structure, or structural alteration is in conformance with the provisions of this ordinance.
112.11. An application shall be accompanied by two copies of a dimensional sketch or a to-scale plan, signed by the owner, or his authorized agent, to include, as a minimum the following:
(1)
Lot dimensions with property line monuments located thereon;
(2)
The shape, size, height, and location of the buildings proposed to be erected, demolished, altered, or moved, and of any buildings already on the lot, yard dimensions and the use of structures, including the number of dwelling units within each structure where appropriate;
(3)
Public and private easements, watercourses, and fences existing on the lot;
(4)
Street names and street right-of-way lines;
(5)
If the proposed use is or includes an outdoor advertising sign, a sketch showing the dimensions of the sign and the position of the sigh [sign] in relation to nearby buildings or structures and to nearby streets, plans and specifications and structural details of construction on the ground; and
(6)
Such other information regarding abutting property as directly affects the application.
112.12. Each permit shall be conspicuously posted and displayed on the premises described in the permit during the period of construction or reconstruction.
112.13. If the proposed excavation, filling, construction, or movement set forth in said sketch or plan are in conformity with the provision of this ordinance, and other appropriate codes and ordinances of the council then in effect, or if a variance from the provisions of this ordinance has been granted pursuant to section 114.3, the zoning enforcement officer shall sign and return one copy of the sketch plan to the applicant and shall issue a zoning compliance permit. The zoning enforcement officer shall retain one copy of the zoning compliance permit and one copy of the sketch or plan for his records.
112.14. If the sketch or plan submitted describes work which does not conform to the requirements of this ordinance, the zoning enforcement officer shall not issue a zoning compliance permit, but shall return one copy of the sketch of plan to the applicant along with a signed refusal in writing. Such refusal shall state the reasons for refusal and shall cite the portions of this ordinance with which the submitted sketch plan does not comply. The zoning enforcement officer shall retain one copy of the sketch plan and two copies of the refusal.
112.15. Any zoning compliance permit shall automatically expire six months from the date of issuance if the person, firm, or corporation to which the certificate or permit was issued has not clearly demonstrated that the permit is being exercised for the purpose for which it was issued, or if the work so authorized is suspended or discontinued for a period of one year.
112.2. Certificate of occupancy. Certificates of occupancy shall be issued by the zoning enforcement officer in accordance with the following provisions:
112.21. Certificate of occupancy required. A certificate of occupancy is required in advance of occupancy of use of:
(1)
A building hereafter erected;
(2)
A building hereafter altered so as to affect height, or side, front or rear yards;
(3)
A change of type of occupancy or use of any building on premises.
112.22. Issuance of certificate of occupancy. A certificate of occupancy shall not be issued unless the proposed use of a building or land conforms to the applicable provisions of this ordinance, or unless the building, as finally constructed, complies with the sketch plan upon which the zoning compliance permit was issued.
(Ord. of 3-1-1999)
Section 113. - Establishment of the board of zoning appeals.
The board of zoning appeals of the City of Gray, Georgia, is hereby established with the mayor and council acting as said board.
113.1. Membership. The board of zoning appeals shall consist of the mayor and council of the City of Gray, Georgia.
Section 114. - Duties and powers of the board of zoning appeals.
The board of zoning appeals shall have the following duties and powers:
114.1. To hear and decide appeals where it is alleged there is error in any order, requirement, decision, or determination made by the zoning enforcement officer, or other administrative official, in the enforcement of this ordinance.
114.2. To hear and decide special exceptions of the terms of this ordinance upon which said board is required to pass under this ordinance.
114.3. Variances. To authorize upon appeal in specific cases such variance from the terms of this ordinance as will not be contrary to the public interest where, owing to special conditions, a literal enforcement of the provisions of this ordinance will, in an individual case, result in unnecessary hardship, so that the spirit of this ordinance shall be observed, public safety and welfare secured, and substantial justice done. Such variance may be granted in such individual case of unnecessary hardship upon a finding by the board of appeals that:
114.31. There are extraordinary and exceptional conditions pertaining to the particular piece of property in question because of its size, shape, or topography, and
114.32. The application of this ordinance to this particular piece of property would create an unnecessary hardship, and
114.33. Such conditions are peculiar to the particular piece of property involved, and
114.34. Relief, if granted, would not cause substantial detriment to the public good or impair the purpose and intent of this ordinance; provided, however, that no variance may be granted for a use of land or building or structure that is prohibited by this ordinance.
114.4. Use variance prohibited. Said board may not grant any variance for a use of land or premises other than the one permitted in section 114.3.
Section 115. - Procedure for requesting a hearing before the board of zoning appeals.
Requests for a hearing before the board of zoning appeals for an administrative review, special exception or a variance shall observe the following procedures:
115.1. An application must be submitted in writing to the zoning enforcement officer from whom the appeal is taken and to the board of appeals a notice of appeal specifying the grounds thereof.
115.2. An application shall be accompanied by an acceptable site plan with such reasonable information shown thereon as may be required by the zoning enforcement officer. Such site plan shall include, as a minimum, the following: lot dimensions with property line monuments located thereon; location and size of existing and proposed structures; yard dimensions and the use of structures; easements (private and public), watercourses, and if existing and proposed; fences, street names and street right-of-way lines; and such other information regarding abutting property as directly affects the application.
115.3. The zoning enforcement officer shall cause to have posted in a conspicuous place on the property in question one or more signs, which shall contain information as to the date, time and place of the hearing, and the address and telephone number of the zoning enforcement officer for further information. Such signs shall be posted not less than 15 days, nor more than 45 days prior to the public hearing.
115.4. The board of zoning appeals shall fix a reasonable time for the hearing of appeals or other matters referred to said board, give at least 15 days public notice thereof, as well as due notice to the parties in interest, and decide the same within 45 days from the date of such public hearing.
115.5. An appeal stays all legal proceedings in furtherance of the action appealed from, unless the zoning enforcement officer certifies to the board of zoning appeals after the notice of appeal shall have been filed with him that, by reason of facts stated in the certificate a stay would, in his opinion, cause imminent peril to life and property. In such case, proceedings shall not be stayed otherwise than by a restraining order which may be granted by the said board or by a court of record; on application, on notice to the official from whom the appeal is taken and on due cause shown.
115.6. In exercising the powers granted the board of zoning appeals in section 114 of this ordinance, the said board may, in conformity with the provisions of this ordinance, reverse or affirm, wholly or in part, or may modify the order, requirements, decisions or determination of the zoning enforcement officer and may issue or direct the issuance of zoning compliance permit.
115.7. A property owner, or his appointed agent, shall not initiate action for a hearing before the board of zoning appeals relating to the same parcel of land more often than once every 12 months on the same variance.
115.8. Any petition for a hearing before the board of zoning appeals may be withdrawn prior to action thereon by said board at the discretion of the person, firm or corporation initiating such a request upon written notice to the secretary of said board.
115.9. Any person or persons severally or jointly aggrieved by any decision of the board of zoning appeals may take an appeal to the superior court as provided in O.C.G.A. § 69-1211.1.
(Ord. of 11-10-1997(2))
Section 116. - Procedure for application for a conditional use.
The following procedure shall be followed for applications for conditional use permits:
116.1. Application. An application for a conditional use permit shall be submitted to the zoning enforcement officer in writing on forms supplied by the zoning enforcement officer. Applications for a preliminary or final conditional use permit shall include the information specified in section 112.
116.2. Submittal to planning and zoning commission. Upon receipt of an application for a conditional use, the zoning enforcement officer shall cause the applications to be placed upon the agenda of the next regular meeting of the city council for which notification requirements can be met. The zoning enforcement officer shall initiate notification procedures required under this section.
116.3. Notification. The zoning enforcement officer shall notify neighboring property owners and the general public of any application for a conditional use in accordance with the following procedures.
116.31. Upon the establishment of a hearing date for any application for a conditional use permit, the zoning enforcement officer shall notify by mail all owners of property lying within 200 feet of the property for which the application is filed of said application. Such notification shall include the nature of the application, the time, date, and place of the hearing upon said application, and the address and telephone number of the zoning enforcement officer, should additional information be required. Such notification shall be mailed not less than 15, nor more than 45 days prior to the hearing. Failure to receive such notification shall not constitute administrative error.
116.32. Upon the establishment of a hearing date for any application for a conditional use permit, the zoning enforcement officer shall cause to have posted in a conspicuous place on the property in question one or more signs, containing the time, date, and place of the hearing, and the address and telephone number of the zoning enforcement officer for further information. Such sign or signs shall be posted not less than 15, nor more than 45 days prior to the hearing.
116.33. Upon the establishment of a hearing date for any application for a conditional use permit, the zoning enforcement officer shall cause to be published in a newspaper of general circulation in Jones County notice of said application. Such notice shall include the nature of the application, the time, date, and place of the hearing upon said application, and the address and telephone number of the zoning enforcement officer, should additional information be required. Such notice shall be published not less than 15, nor more than 45 days prior to the hearing.
116.34. Upon the establishment of a hearing date for any application for a conditional use permit, the zoning enforcement officer shall notify by mail the applicant of the time, date, and place of the hearing upon said application. Such notification shall be mailed not less than 15 days prior to the hearing.
116.4. Hearing and decision. The following provisions shall apply to hearings upon applications for a conditional use permit:
116.41. The city council shall decide upon applications for conditional use permits using the following standards:
116.41.1. The proposed use or structure shall be compatible with development and uses existing on adjacent and nearby property.
116.41.2. The proposed use or structure shall not have a substantial adverse impact upon the existing use or usability of adjacent or nearby property.
116.41.3. The proposed use or structure shall not cause an excessive or burdensome use of existing streets, transportation facilities, utilities, schools, or other public facilities.
116.41.4. Any other relevant factors, including the conformity of the proposed development with duly adopted land use and other physical development plans or policies for the area, may also be considered.
116.41.5. Whenever the application for a conditional use permit is for a sign, the city council shall consider the criteria contained in section 97.7(3)(a) in addition to the standards set out in [sections] 116.41.1 through 116.41.4.
116.41.6. Whenever the application for a conditional use permit is for a telecommunications tower, the city council shall consider the criteria contained in section 100 in addition to the standards set out in 116.41.1 through 116.41.4.
116.42. The city council shall hear applications for conditional use permits in accordance with such rules as it may adopt for such proceedings. The city council shall keep minutes of its proceedings, showing the vote of each member upon each question, or if absent and failing to vote, indicating such fact, and shall keep records of its examinations and other formal actions. All records shall be kept in the office of the city clerk and shall be open for public inspection.
116.43. Following a public hearing upon an application for a conditional use permit, the city council shall consider and decide upon said application within 45 days following the hearing.
116.44. In response to comments made by persons appearing at the hearing or to city council's recommendations, the applicant may agree to modify his application, including any plans or specifications submitted. Unless such modifications are so substantial that the city council determines that revised plans are necessary for adequate consideration of the application, the city council may approve the application with the stipulation that the permit or certificate shall not be issued until plans reflecting the agreed upon changes are submitted to the zoning enforcement officer.
116.45. Any decision made by the city council upon an application for a conditional use permit shall be reduced to writing and served upon the applicant and shall be made a public record and maintained in the office of the city clerk and with a copy on file in the office of the zoning enforcement officer.
116.46. Whenever an application for a conditional use permit is denied, the city council shall not consider any further application for the same conditional use on the same property or any part thereof for a period of six months from the date of final denial. An application for a conditional use which is essentially the same as one previously denied shall be considered as being for the same conditional use as was previously denied.
116.47. Any person, firm, or corporation whose application has been previously and finally disapproved, may, within 30 days from the date of final disapproval, move that the city council authorize a rehearing and reconsider the application. All motions for a rehearing shall be written and presented to the zoning enforcement officer, and no hearing shall be held on such motion. No motion for rehearing shall be considered unless new or additional information not available at the time of the original hearing or not presented due to excusable neglect is available. A denial of this motion is final action. The granting of this motion shall require a new hearing and a new process of notification as if the application were considered for the first time.
(Ord. of 1-3-00; Ord. of 8-7-00(3))
Section 117. - Continuance of previously issued permits.
All building permits, which were previously issued by the City of Gray shall not be affected by the provisions as otherwise provided herein.
