ARTICLE XVI. - ENFORCEMENT AND REMEDIES

Section 161. - Violation.
This ordinance is adopted pursuant to the 1982 Constitution of the State of Georgia. A violation of any provision of this ordinance constitutes an offense punishable in Recorders [Municipal] Court, and every day such violation continues shall be deemed as a separate offense.
Section 162. - Zoning enforcement.
It shall be unlawful to construct, reconstruct, or alter any building or other structure without first obtaining a zoning compliance permit or conditional use permit from the zoning enforcement officer or to use such building or structure or any land without first obtaining a certificate of occupancy from the zoning enforcement officer. The zoning enforcement officer shall not issue any permit unless the requirements of this ordinance are complied with.
Section 163. - Subdivision enforcement.
163.1. The filing or recording of a plat of a subdivision without approval of the mayor and city council of Gray constitutes a violation of this ordinance, and the description by metes and bounds in the instrument of transfer or other document used in the process of selling or transfer shall not exempt the transaction from such penalties. City council, through its attorney or other designated official, may enjoin such transfer or sale or agreement by appropriate action.
163.2. No plat or plan of subdivision with the City of Gray shall be filed or recorded by a subdivider in the office of the Clerk of the Superior Court of Jones County until it shall have been submitted to and approved by the mayor and city council of Gray and such approval entered in writing on the plat by the zoning enforcement officer of the city attorney. The clerk of the superior court shall not file or record a plat of a subdivision which does not have the approval of the zoning enforcement officer or city attorney.
(Ord. of 6-3-1996; Ord. of 5-4-1998(2))
Section 164. - Remedies.
In case any building or structure is or is proposed to be erected, constructed, reconstructed, altered, converted, or maintained, or any building, structure of land is or is proposed to be used in violation of the ordinance, the zoning enforcement officer, county attorney, or other appropriate authority of Gray or any adjacent or neighboring property owner who would be specially damaged by such violation may, in addition to other remedies, institute injunction, mandamus, or other appropriate action or proceeding to prevent such unlawful erection, construction, reconstruction, alteration, conversion, maintenance, or use, or to correct or abate such violation, or to prevent the occupancy of said building, structure, or land.
Section 165. - Speculative rezonings.
The City of Gray discourages the use of rezonings as a strategy to increase speculative land value where the applicant has no intent to develop in accordance with the rezoning. Rezonings are intended to grant the applicant an opportunity to exercise appropriate alternative development options in situations where development in compliance with existing zoning is not possible or practicable, as long as the proposed alternative uses are consistent with the comprehensive plan and the character of the surrounding area. The granting of this privilege by the city carries with it the expectation that appropriate development will occur. Therefore, when the city council grants approval of a rezoning, the applicant should acquire a building permit or final plat approval (whichever is applicable) and commence construction activities in compliance with that permit or approval within one year of the date upon which the rezoning is approved. If such actions have not been taken within the specified time frame, the planning commission may initiate procedures to further rezone the property in question.
