Chapter 10 - AMUSEMENTS AND ENTERTAINMENT[1]
Footnotes:
--- (1) ---
Cross reference— Businesses, ch. 22.

ARTICLE I. - IN GENERAL

Secs. 10-1—10-30. - Reserved.
ARTICLE II. - POOL AND BILLIARDS[2]

Footnotes:
--- (2) ---
State Law reference— Exchange of free replay for anything of value unlawful, O.C.G.A. § 16-12-35(c); authority to license, tax and regulate billiard rooms, O.C.G.A. § 43-8-2; state licensing of coin-operated amusement machines, O.C.G.A. § 48-17-1 et seq.

Sec. 10-31. - Definitions.
The following words, terms and phrases, when used in this article, shall have the meanings ascribed to them in this section, except where the context clearly indicates a different meaning:
Billiard room means any public place where a person is permitted to play the game of billiards (pool) and for which a charge is made for use of equipment.
Billiards means any of the several games played on a table surrounded by an elastic ledge of cushions with balls which are impelled by a cue and shall include all forms of the game known as "carom billiards," "pocket billiards," and "English billiards," and any of the games commonly referred to as pool.
(Ord. of 12-2-1991, § 1)
Cross reference— Definitions generally, § 1-2.
Sec. 10-32. - Operating hours.
All billiard rooms located within the city shall close and be prohibited from operating Monday, Tuesday, Wednesday and Thursday from 12:00 midnight until 6:00 a.m. the following morning. Billiard rooms shall close on Saturday morning at 2:00 a.m. and remain closed until 6:00 a.m. Saturday morning. Billiard rooms shall close Saturday evening at 12:00 midnight and remain closed until 1:00 p.m. Sunday afternoon. Billiard rooms shall close Sunday evening at 12:00 midnight and remain closed until 6:00 a.m. Monday morning.
(Ord. of 12-2-1991, § 2)
Sec. 10-33. - Alcoholic beverages restricted.
No alcoholic beverages shall be stored on the premises of any billiard room unless the owner has a beer and wine license issued by the city. No alcoholic beverages shall be consumed, carried on or possessed on the premises of any billiard room.
(Ord. of 12-2-1991, § 3)
Cross reference— Alcoholic beverages, ch. 6.
Sec. 10-34. - License fee.
The fee for a billiard room business license is as set forth in the schedule of fees and charges. No billiard room shall be operated without a license. In addition to this fee, the owner of a billiard room shall pay all other license fees required by the city.
(Ord. of 12-2-1991, § 4)
Sec. 10-35. - Grounds for suspension, revocation of license.
The following shall be considered just cause for suspension or revocation of any business license to operate a billiard room:
(1)
The performance of any action prohibited by this article or the failure to perform any act required by this article; or
(2)
Violations of any state, local or federal law, particularly but not limited to those involving alcoholic beverages;
if such violation tends to indicate that the licensee will not maintain the operation of the business license in conformity with state, local or federal laws. If such act, omission, or violation is done by any agent, servant, employee or officer of the licensee, the lack of knowledge on the part of the licensee or the lack of authorization for such act or omission or violation shall be no defense.
(Ord. of 12-2-1991, § 5)
Sec. 10-36. - Penalty for violation of article.
Violators of this article shall, upon conviction, be punished as provided in section 1-12.
(Ord. of 12-2-1991, § 6)
Secs. 10-37—10-55. - Reserved.
ARTICLE III. - ADULT ENTERTAINMENT

Sec. 10-56. - Purpose.
The purpose of this article is to regulate certain types of businesses, including but not limited to adult entertainment establishments, to the end that the many types of criminal activities frequently engendered by such businesses (as demonstrated by the experiences of other municipalities, including but not limited to Atlanta and Fulton County, Georgia; Seattle and Renton, Washington; New York, New York; Los Angeles, California; and Fort Lauderdale and Palm Beach, Florida) will be curtailed. However, it is recognized that such regulation cannot de facto approach prohibition. Otherwise, a protected form of expression would vanish. As to adult dance establishments, this article represents a balancing of competing interests: reduced criminal activity and protection of the surrounding neighborhoods through the regulation of adult entertainment establishments versus the protected rights of adult entertainment establishments and patrons.
(Ord. of 4-4-1994, § 1)
Sec. 10-57. - Definitions.
The following words, terms and phrases, when used in this article, shall have the meanings ascribed to them in this section, except where the context clearly indicates a different meaning:
Adult bookstore means an establishment having as a substantial or significant portion of its stock in trade, books, magazines or other periodicals which are distinguished or characterized by their emphasis on matter depicting, describing or relating to specified sexual activities or specified anatomical areas, or an establishment with a segment or section, comprising five percent of its total floor space, devoted to the sale or display of such materials or five percent of its net sales consisting of printed materials which are distinguished or characterized by their emphasis on matter depicting, describing or relating to specified sexual activities or specified anatomical areas.
Adult dancing establishment means a business that features dancers displaying or exposing specified anatomical areas.
Adult mini-motion picture theater means an enclosed building with a capacity of less than 50 persons used for commercially presenting material distinguished or characterized by an emphasis on matter depicting or relating to specified sexual activities or specified anatomical areas for observation by patrons.
Adult motion picture arcade means any place to which the public is permitted or invited wherein coin- or slug-operated or electronically, electrically or mechanically controlled still or motion picture machines, projectors or other image-producing devices are maintained to show images to five or fewer persons per machine at any one time and where the images so displayed are distinguished or characterized by an emphasis on depicting or describing specified sexual activities or specified anatomical areas.
Adult motion picture theater means an enclosed building with a capacity of 50 or more persons used for presenting material distinguished or characterized by an emphasis on matter depicting, describing or relating to specified sexual activities or specified anatomical areas for observation by patrons.
Adult video store means an establishment having as a substantial or significant portion of its stock in trade, videotapes or movies or other reproductions, whether for sale or rent, which are distinguished or characterized by their emphasis on matter depicting, describing or relating to specified sexual activities or specified anatomical areas or an establishment with a segment or section, comprising five percent of its total floor space, devoted to the sale or display of such material or which derives more than five percent of its net sales from videos which are characterized or distinguished by their emphasis on matter depicting, describing or relating to specified sexual activities or specified anatomical areas.
Erotic dance establishment means a nightclub, theater or other establishment which features live performances by topless and/or bottomless dancers, go-go dancers, strippers or similar entertainers, where such performances are distinguished or characterized by an emphasis on specified sexual activities or specified anatomical areas.
Escort bureau, introduction service, means any person who, for a fee, commission, hire, reward or profit, furnishes or offers to furnish names of persons, or who introduces, furnishes or arranges for persons who may accompany other persons to or about social affairs, entertainments or places of amusement, or who may consort with others about any place of public resort or within any private quarters.
Good moral character means that a person has not been convicted of a felony, or any crime not a felony if it involves moral turpitude, in the past five years. The city may also take into account such other factors as are necessary to determine the good moral character of the applicant or employee. Conviction shall include pleas of nolo contendere or bond forfeiture when charged with such crime.
Minor means any person who has not attained the age of 18 years.
Specified anatomical areas means any of the following:
(1)
Less than completely and opaquely covered human genitals or pubic region, buttock, or female breast below a point immediately above the top of the areola; or
(2)
Human male genitalia in a discernibly turgid state, even if completely and opaquely covered.
Specified sexual activities means any of the following:
(1)
Actual or simulated sexual intercourse, oral copulation, anal intercourse, oral anal copulation, bestiality, direct physical stimulation of unclothed genitals, flagellation, or torture in the context of a sexual relationship, or the use of excretory functions in the context of a sexual relationship and any of the following sexually oriented acts or conduct; anilingus, buggery, coprophagy, coprophilia, cunnilingus, fellatio, necrophilia, pederasty, pedophilia, piquerism, sapphism, zooerastia;
(2)
Clearly depicted human genitals in a state of sexual stimulation, arousal or tumescence;
(3)
Use of human or animal ejaculation, sodomy, oral copulation, coitus or masturbation;
(4)
Fondling or touching of nude human genitals, pubic region, buttocks, or female breast;
(5)
Masochism, erotic or sexually oriented torture, beating, or infliction of pain;
(6)
Erotic or lewd touching, fondling or other sexual contact with an animal by a human being; or
(7)
Human excretion, urination, menstruation, vaginal or anal irrigation.
(Ord. of 4-4-1994, § 2)
Cross reference— Definitions generally, § 1-2.
Sec. 10-58. - Erotic dance establishment regulations.
(a)
No person shall advertise or cause to be advertised an erotic dance establishment in the city without a valid adult entertainment establishment license issued pursuant to this article.
(b)
No later than March 1 of each year, an erotic dance establishment licensee shall file a verified report with the license officer showing the licensee's gross receipts and amounts paid to dancers for the preceding calendar year.
(c)
The license officer may inspect the licensee's establishment to assess compliance with the requirements of this article and all applicable sections of appendix A to this Code at any time after providing written notice of the intended date of the inspection at least one week (seven calendar days) prior to the investigation.
(d)
An erotic dance establishment licensee shall maintain and retain for a period of two years the names, addresses and ages of all persons employed as dancers.
(e)
No adult entertainment establishment licensee shall employ or contract with as a dancer a person under the age of 18 years or a person not licensed pursuant to this article.
(f)
No person under the age of 18 years shall be admitted to an erotic dance establishment.
(g)
An erotic dance establishment may be open only between the hours of 8:00 a.m. and 12:00 midnight, Monday through Saturday, and closed on Sunday. No licensee shall permit his place of business to be open on Christmas Day.
(h)
No erotic dance establishment licensee shall serve, sell, distribute, or suffer the consumption or possession of any alcoholic beverage or controlled substance upon the premises of the licensee.
(i)
An erotic dance establishment licensee shall conspicuously display all licenses required by this article within the primary structure of the establishment.
(j)
No dancer shall fondle or caress any patron, and no patron shall fondle or caress any dancer.
(k)
No patron shall directly pay or give any gratuity to any dancer.
(l)
No dancer shall solicit any pay or gratuity from any patron.
(m)
Private dancing sessions or other erotic exhibitions on the erotic dance establishment premises shall be prohibited.
(n)
All areas of an establishment licensed under this section shall be fully lighted at all times patrons are present. Full lighting shall mean illumination equal to 3.5 footcandles per square foot.
(Ord. of 4-4-1994, § 3)
Sec. 10-59. - Certain activities prohibited.
No person shall publicly display or expose or suffer the public display or exposure, with less than a full opaque covering, of any portion of a person's genitals, pubic area, or buttocks in a lewd and obscene fashion. All signs or other forms of advertisement associated with a permitted adult entertainment establishment must comply with this requirement.
(Ord. of 4-4-1994, § 4)
Sec. 10-60. - Permit required.
It shall be unlawful for any person to engage in, conduct, or carry on in or upon any premises within the city any of the adult entertainment establishments defined in this article without a permit to do so. No permit so issued shall condone or make legal any activity if the activity is deemed illegal or unlawful under the laws of the state or the United States.
(Ord. of 4-4-1994, § 5)
Sec. 10-61. - Operation of unlicensed premises unlawful.
It shall be unlawful for any person to operate an adult entertainment establishment unless such business shall have a currently valid license or shall have made proper application for renewal within the time required under this article, which license shall not be under suspension or permanently or conditionally revoked.
(Ord. of 4-4-1994, § 6)
Sec. 10-62. - Admission of minors unlawful.
It shall be unlawful for a licensee to admit or permit the admission of minors within a licensed adult entertainment establishment.
(Ord. of 4-4-1994, § 7)
Sec. 10-63. - Sales to minors unlawful.
It shall be unlawful for any person to sell, barter, distribute, offer to sell, or give to any minor any service, material, device, or thing sold or offered for sale by any adult entertainment establishment which clearly depicts any specified anatomical areas or promotes, instructs or assists in the conduct of any specified sexual activities.
(Ord. of 4-4-1994, § 8)
Sec. 10-64. - Adult entertainment establishment employees.
(a)
Qualifications. Employees of an adult entertainment establishment shall be not less than 18 years of age. Every employee must be of good moral character. Any employee who is convicted of a crime constituting a felony or a crime not a felony involving moral turpitude while employed at an adult entertainment establishment shall not thereafter work at any licensed premises for a period of five years from the date of such conviction, unless a longer time is ordered by a court of competent jurisdiction. The term "convicted" shall include an adjudication of guilt on a plea of guilty or nolo contendere or the forfeiture of a bond when charged with a crime, and the terms "employed on the licensed premises" and "work on any licensed premises" shall include as well work done or services performed while in the scope of employment elsewhere than on the licensed premises.
(b)
Approval for employment. Before any person may work on a licensed premises, he must file a notice with the licensing officer of his intended employment on forms supplied by the licensing officer and shall receive approval of such employment from the licensing officer. The prospective employee shall supply such information as the licensing officer requires, including a set of fingerprints on regular city or United States Department of Justice forms. Upon approval, the employee may begin working on the licensed premises. If approval is denied, the prospective employee may, within ten days of denial, apply to the licensing officer for a hearing. The decision of the licensing officer after hearing may be appealed to the mayor and council, which may issue such order as is proper on the premises. An investigation fee of $50.00 shall accompany the notice of intended employment or a receipt of the licensing officer evidencing the payment of such fee at the time the notice is filed.
(c)
Suspension, revocation of license. Violation of the provisions of this article, the ordinances of the city, laws and regulations of the state, or the rules and regulations of the city shall subject an employee to suspension or revocation of license.
(d)
Independent contractors. For the purpose of this article, independent contractors shall be considered as employees and shall be licensed as employees, regardless of the business relationship with the owner or licensee of any adult entertainment establishment.
(Ord. of 4-4-1994, § 9)
Sec. 10-65. - Application for permit.
(a)
Any person desiring to obtain a permit to operate, engage in, conduct, or carry on any adult entertainment establishment shall make application to the mayor and council or its designated representative. Prior to submitting such application, a nonrefundable fee, established by resolution of the mayor and council, shall be paid to the city clerk to defray, in part, the cost of investigation and report required by this article. The city clerk shall issue a receipt showing that such application fee has been paid in full. The receipt or a copy shall be supplied to the mayor and council at the time the application is submitted.
(b)
The application for permit does not authorize the engaging in, operation of, conduct of, or carrying on of any adult entertainment establishment.
(Ord. of 4-4-1994, § 10)
Sec. 10-66. - Permit application contents.
(a)
Each application for an adult entertainment establishment permit shall contain the following information:
(1)
The full true name and any other names used by the applicant.
(2)
The present address and telephone number of the applicant (including a telephone number at which the applicant may reasonably be expected to be reached during regular business hours if such number differs from the telephone number of the applicant's primary place of residence).
(3)
The previous addresses of the applicant, if any, for a period of five years immediately prior to the date of the application and the dates of residence at each.
(4)
Acceptable written proof that the applicant is at least 18 years of age.
(5)
The applicant's true and current (where the two may be different) height, weight, color of eyes and hair, and date and place of birth.
(6)
Two photographs of the applicant at least two inches by two inches in size taken within the last six months.
(7)
Complete business, occupation or employment history of the applicant for the five years immediately preceding the date of application. Business or employment records of the applicant, partners in a partnership, directors and officers of a corporation and, if a corporation, all shareholders holding more than five percent of the shares of corporate stock outstanding on the date of application.
(8)
The business license history of the applicant and whether such applicant, in previous operations in this or any other city, state or territory under license, has had such license or permit for an adult entertainment business or similar type of business revoked or suspended, the reason, and the business activity or occupation subsequent to such action of suspension or revocation.
(9)
All convictions, including ordinance violations, exclusive of traffic violations, stating the dates and places of any such convictions.
(10)
If the applicant is a corporation, the name of the corporation, set forth exactly as shown in its articles of incorporation or charter, together with the place and date of incorporation, and the names and addresses of each of the current officers and directors, and each stockholder holding more than five percent of the stock in the corporation on the date of application; if the applicant is a partnership, the name, residence address, and dates of birth of the partners, including limited partners: if the applicant is a limited partnership, a copy of its certificate of limited partnership filed with the city clerk; if one or more of the partners is a corporation, the provisions of this subsection pertaining to corporations shall apply. The applicant corporation or partnership shall designate one of its officers or general partners to act as its responsible managing officer. Such designated person shall complete and sign all application forms required of an individual applicant under this article, but only one application fee shall be charged.
(11)
The names and addresses of the owner and lessor of the real property upon which the business is to be conducted and a copy of the lease or rental agreement.
(12)
Such other identification and information as the sheriff's office or police department may require in order to discover the truth of the matters specified in this subsection as required to be set forth in the application.
(13)
The age and date of birth of the applicant, of any partners, or of any and all officers, of any stockholders of more than five percent of the shares of the corporation stock outstanding on the date of application, directors of the applicant if the applicant is a corporation.
(14)
If the applicant, any partners or any of the officers or stockholders holding more than five percent of the outstanding shares of the corporation on the date of application, or the directors of the applicant if the applicant is a corporation, have ever been convicted of any crime constituting a felony, or any crime not a felony involving moral turpitude, in the past five years and, if so, a complete description of any such crime, including date of violation, date of conviction, jurisdiction and any disposition, including any fine or sentence imposed and whether terms of disposition have been fully completed.
(15)
The furnishing of fingerprints of the individual applicant.
(16)
If the applicant is a person doing business under a trade name, a copy of the trade name properly recorded; if the applicant is a corporation, a copy of authority to do business in this state, including articles of incorporation, trade name affidavit, if any, and last annual report, if any.
(17)
At least three character references from individuals who are in no way related to the applicant or individual shareholders, officers or directors of a corporation and who are not or will not benefit financially in any way from the application if the license is granted and who have not been convicted of any felony or a violation of this Code involving moral turpitude in the past five years. The licensing officer shall prepare forms consistent with the provisions of this subsection for the applicant, who shall submit all character references on such forms.
(18)
Address of the premises to be licensed.
(19)
Whether the premises are owned or rented and, if the applicant has a right to legal possession of the premises, copies of those documents giving such legal right.
(20)
A plat by a registered engineer, licensed by the state, showing the location of the proposed premises in relation to the neighborhood, the surrounding zoning, its proximity to any protected use property identified in section 99.4 of the zoning ordinance or other business regulated under this article.
(b)
Each application for an adult entertainment establishment license shall be verified and acknowledged under oath to be true and correct by the following:
(1)
If the applicant is an individual, the individual.
(2)
If by a partnership, the manager or general partner.
(3)
If a corporation, by the president of the corporation.
(4)
If any other organization or association, by the chief administrative official.
(Ord. of 4-4-1994, § 11)
Sec. 10-67. - Applicant to appear.
The applicant for an adult entertainment establishment permit, if an individual, or designated responsible managing officer, if a partnership or corporation, shall personally appear at city hall and produce proof that a nonrefundable application fee, established by resolution of the mayor and council, has been paid and shall present the application containing the information required in this article.
(Ord. of 4-4-1994, § 12)
Sec. 10-68. - Application; investigation.
The city shall have 30 days to investigate an application for an adult entertainment establishment permit and the background of the applicant. Upon completion of the investigation, the mayor and council may grant the permit if it finds:
(1)
The required fee has been paid in full.
(2)
The application conforms in all respects to the provisions of this article and all other applicable codes and ordinances duly adopted by the city.
(3)
The applicant has not knowingly made a material misrepresentation in the application.
(4)
The applicant has fully cooperated in the investigation of his application.
(5)
The applicant if an individual, or any of the stockholders if a corporation, any officers or directors if the applicant is a corporation, or any of the partners, including limited partners, if the applicant is a partnership, has not been convicted in a court of competent jurisdiction of an offense involving conduct or convicted of an attempt to commit any offense prohibited in this article, or convicted in any state of any offense which, if committed or attempted in this state, would have been punishable as such an offense, or any crime involving dishonesty, fraud, deceit or moral turpitude.
(6)
The applicant has not had an adult entertainment establishment permit or other similar license or permit denied or revoked for cause by the city or any other government located in or out of this state prior to the date of application.
(7)
The building, structure, equipment or location of such business as proposed by the applicant would comply with all applicable laws, including but not limited to health, zoning, distance, fire and safety requirements and standards.
(8)
The applicant is at least 21 years of age.
(9)
That the applicant, his employee, agent, partner, director, officer, stockholder or manager has not, within five years of the date of application, knowingly allowed or permitted any specified sexual activities to be committed or allowed in or upon the premises where such adult entertainment establishment is to be located or to be used as a place in which solicitations for the specified sexual activities openly occur.
(10)
That on the date the business for which a permit is required commences, and thereafter, there will be a responsible person on the premises to act as manager at all times during which the business is open.
(11)
That the proposed premises will not be located too close to any protected use property identified in section 99.4 of the zoning ordinance or other business regulated under this article.
(12)
That the grant of such license will not cause a violation of this article or any other ordinance or regulation of the city, the state, or the United States.
(13)
Any other inquiry deemed necessary or desirable by the city to ensure the health, safety and welfare of the citizens of the city or the preservation of its neighborhoods.
(Ord. of 4-4-1994, § 13)
Sec. 10-69. - Persons prohibited as licensees.
(a)
No license provided for by this article shall be issued to or held by:
(1)
An applicant who has not paid all required fees and taxes for a business at that location or property taxes.
(2)
Any person who is not of good moral character.
(3)
Any corporation any of whose officers, directors or stockholders holding over five percent of the outstanding shares of capital stock on the date of application are not of good moral character.
(4)
Any partnership or association any of whose officers or members holding five percent interest therein on the date of application are not of good moral character.
(5)
Any person employing, assisted by or financed in whole or in part by any person who is not of good moral character.
(6)
Any applicant who is not qualified to hold and conduct a business according to the laws of the United States, the state, or the city.
(b)
Should there be a sufficient number of current licenses to meet the needs and desires of the inhabitants of the city, no new licenses shall be issued. In determining the needs and desires of the inhabitants, the standard of review shall be that the market is virtually unrestrained as defined in Young v. American Mini Theaters, Inc. (427 U.S. 50, 81).
(Ord. of 4-4-1994, § 14)
Sec. 10-70. - Refusal of permit; appeal.
If the city, following investigation of an applicant for an adult entertainment establishment permit, deems that the applicant does not fulfill the requirements as set forth in this article, it shall notify the city clerk of such opinion and, within 30 days of the date of application, provide copies of the investigation report to the city clerk. The city clerk shall, within ten days, notify the applicant by certified mail of such denial. Any applicant who is denied a permit may appeal such denial to the mayor and council.
(Ord. of 4-4-1994, § 15)
Sec. 10-71. - Renewal of permit.
Permits for adult entertainment establishments may be renewed on a year-to-year basis, provided that the permittees continue to meet the requirements set out in this article. The renewal fees for the adult entertainment establishment permits shall be established by resolution of the mayor and council.
(Ord. of 4-4-1994, § 16)
Sec. 10-72. - Change of location or name.
(a)
No adult entertainment establishment shall move from the location specified on its permit until a change of location fee, established by the mayor and council, has been deposited with the city and approval has been obtained from the mayor and council or the planning and zoning commission. Such approval shall not be given unless all requirements and regulations as contained in this Code have been met.
(b)
No permittee shall operate, conduct, manage, engage in, or carry on an adult entertainment establishment under any name other than his name and the name of the business as specified on his permit.
(c)
Any application for an extension or expansion of a building or other place of business where an adult entertainment establishment is located shall require inspection and shall comply with the provisions and regulations of this article.
(Ord. of 4-4-1994, § 17)
Sec. 10-73. - Powers of hearing officer.
The hearing officer appointed pursuant to the procedure set forth in this article may receive and rule on admissability of evidence, hear testimony under oath and call witnesses as he may deem advisable with respect to the conduct of the hearing.
(Ord. of 4-4-1994, § 18)
Sec. 10-74. - Rules of evidence.
The mayor and council and the hearing officer shall not be bound by the traditional rules of evidence in hearings conducted under this article. Rules of evidence as applied in an administrative hearing shall apply.
(Ord. of 4-4-1994, § 19)
Sec. 10-75. - Hearing officer's report.
(a)
The hearing officer shall, within a reasonable time not to exceed 30 days from the date such hearing is terminated, submit a written report to the mayor and council. Such report shall contain a brief summary of the evidence considered and state findings, conclusions, and recommendations. All such reports shall be filed with the city clerk and shall be considered public records. A copy of such report shall be forwarded by certified mail to the permittee/appellant the same day it is filed with the city clerk, with additional copies furnished the mayor and council and the chief of police.
(b)
The city clerk shall place the hearing officer's report on the agenda of the next regular mayor and council meeting occurring not less than ten days after the report is filed and shall notify the permittee/appellant of the date of such meeting at least ten days prior to the meeting unless the permittee/appellant stipulates to a shorter notice period.
(Ord. of 4-4-1994, § 20)
Sec. 10-76. - Action on hearing officer's report by mayor and council.
The mayor and council may adopt or reject the hearing officer's decision in its entirety or may modify the proposed recommendation. If the mayor and council does not adopt the hearing officer's recommendation, it may:
(1)
Refer the matter to the same or another hearing officer for a completely new hearing or for the taking of additional evidence on specific points. In either of such cases, the hearing officer shall proceed as provided in this article.
(2)
Decide the case upon a review of the entire record before the hearing officer with or without taking additional evidence.
(Ord. of 4-4-1994, § 21)
Sec. 10-77. - Violations; penalty.
Violators of this chapter shall, upon conviction, be punished as provided in section 1-12. In addition to such punishment, violation of this article shall also be grounds for immediate suspension or revocation of the license issued under this article.
(Ord. of 4-4-1994, § 22)
Sec. 10-78. - Unlawful operation declared nuisance.
Any adult entertainment establishment operated, conducted or maintained contrary to the provisions of this article is unlawful and a public nuisance. The city may, in addition to or in lieu of prosecuting a criminal action under this article, commence an action or proceeding for abatement, removal or enjoinment of such nuisance in the manner provided by law. It shall take such other steps and shall apply to such courts as may have jurisdiction to grant such relief as will abate or remove such adult entertainment establishment and restrain and enjoin any person from operating, conducting or maintaining an adult entertainment establishment contrary to the provisions of this article. In addition, violation of the provisions of this article shall be per se grounds for suspension or revocation of a license granted under this article.
(Ord. of 4-4-1994, § 23)
Sec. 10-79. - Cleaning of licensed premises.
Each licensed premises shall be maintained in a clean and sanitary condition and shall be cleaned at least once daily and more frequently when necessary. This activity shall be supervised by the person in charge of the licensed premises. There shall be provided adequate facilities, equipment and supplies on the licensed premises to meet this requirement; and adequate ventilation and illumination shall be provided to permit thorough, complete cleaning of the entire licensed premises. Trash and garbage shall not be permitted to accumulate or to become a nuisance on or in the immediate vicinity of the licensed premises but shall be disposed of daily or as often as collections permit.
(Ord. of 4-4-1994, § 24)
Sec. 10-80. - Self-inspection of licensed premises.
The licensee of a licensed premises or his designated representative shall make sanitary inspections of the licensed premises at least once a month and shall record his findings on a form supplied by the licensing officer. Each licensed premises shall post and maintain in a readily accessible place a schedule for maintaining the sanitation of the premises.
(Ord. of 4-4-1994, § 25)
Sec. 10-81. - Sealing for unsanitary or unsafe conditions.
(a)
Licensed premises or any part of such premises may be sealed by order of the licensing officer on his finding of a violation of this article resulting in an unsanitary or unsafe condition. Prior to sealing, the licensing officer shall serve on the licensee, by personal service on him or by posting in a conspicuous place on the licensed premises, a notice of the violation and an order to correct it within 24 hours after service. If the violation is not so corrected, the licensing officer may physically seal that portion of the licensed premises causing the violation and order the discontinuance of its use until the violation has been corrected and the seal removed by the licensing officer. The licensing officer shall affix to the sealed premises a conspicuous sign labeled "Unclean" or "Unsafe" as the case may be.
(b)
The licensed premises may be abated as a sanitary nuisance.
(Ord. of 4-4-1994, § 26)
Sec. 10-82. - License fee.
A nonrefundable license fee as set forth in the schedule of fees and charges will be paid by an applicant under this article, which will constitute both an application fee and license fee. This fee will be paid when the application is filed. No part of the fee will be refunded should the application be denied.
(Ord. of 4-4-1994, § 28)
