Chapter 14 - FIRE PREVENTION AND PROTECTION[1]
ARTICLE I. - IN GENERAL

Secs. 14-1—14-18. - Reserved.
ARTICLE II. - VOLUNTEER FIREFIGHTERS[2]

Sec. 14-19. - Definitions.
The following words, terms and phrases, when used in this article, shall have the meanings ascribed to them in this section, except where the context clearly indicates a different meaning:
Association means the McRae-Helena Firefighter's Association.
Reportable incident means any injury suffered by a volunteer firefighter while engaged in his firefighting duties for the city for which medical treatment might reasonably by required, regardless of whether medical treatment is actually sought.
Volunteer firefighter means any active member in good standing of the McRae-Helena Firefighter's Association located in the city.
(Ord. No. O-016-15, § II, 8-20-2015)
Sec. 14-20. - Establishment of use of volunteer firefighting services for fire protection in the city.
The city shall provide fire protection service to its citizens by and through the use of its fire department as assisted and augmented by the volunteer firefighting services offered by the McRae-Helena Firefighter's Association, upon the terms set forth herein.
(Ord. No. O-016-15, § I, 8-20-2015)
Sec. 14-21. - Designation of McRae-Helena Firefighter's Association's volunteers as firefighters for the city.
The city hereby ordains and designates that fire protection for the city and its citizens shall be assisted and augmented by the volunteer firefighters operating as the McRae-Helena Firefighter's Association.
(Ord. No. O-016-15, § III, 8-20-2015)
Sec. 14-22. - Designation of volunteer firefighters as employees of the city for purposes of provision of workers' compensation insurance coverage only.
Pursuant to O.C.G.A. § 34-9-1(2), said volunteer firefighters shall be deemed to be the class of persons defined as "employee" for purposes of workers' compensation coverage as set forth in, and subject to the qualifications of, O.C.G.A. title 34, ch. 9 (O.C.G.A. § 34-9-1 et seq.), only. The volunteer firefighters shall not be considered to be employees of the city for any other purposes.
(Ord. No. O-016-15, § IV, 8-20-2015)
Sec. 14-23. - Provision of workers' compensation coverage to volunteer firefighters.
Pursuant to O.C.G.A. § 34-9-1(2), the city shall provide workers' compensation coverage to the volunteer firefighters, but said coverage shall be limited to coverage for matters arising out of services rendered to the city as volunteer firefighters. At the current time, the McRae-Helena Firefighter's Association has 26 active members providing firefighting services to the community. The city shall provide workers' compensation coverage for 26 firefighters; coverage for additional firefighters may be provided upon notification by the Association of an increase in membership of active firefighters.
(Ord. No. O-016-15, § V, 8-20-2015)
Sec. 14-24. - Requirements placed upon volunteer firefighters by the city.
(a)
All volunteer firefighters who serve the city shall undergo all training required by the state and by the Association prior to engaging in firefighting.
(b)
All volunteer firefighters shall maintain the continuing training required by the state and/or the Association, which training is performed by and through drills provided by the city.
(c)
All volunteer firefighters shall comply with all laws and regulations of the state, with all bylaws, standards, procedures and protocols established by the Association and, to the extent of their service to the city, with all ordinances and requirements established by the city.
(d)
Each volunteer firefighter who drives his personal vehicle to a fire shall have his vehicle inspected quarterly by the fire chief or his designee and shall provide a written report of said inspection quarterly, within ten days of the inspection, to the city clerk.
(e)
In the event of a vehicular accident, the volunteer firefighter shall undergo immediate drug and alcohol testing.
(f)
In the event of an injury incurred while rendering service to the city as a volunteer firefighter, the said firefighter shall, immediately on the occurrence of the accident or as soon thereafter as is practicable, give, or cause to be given, to the city clerk notice of the accident or injury.
(g)
In the event of a reportable incident, the volunteer firefighter shall undergo immediate drug and alcohol testing.
(h)
Violation of, or failure to comply with, any of these requirements may result in suspension of the violating firefighter from duties for the city. Further, it is noted that violation of, or failure to comply with, this section may affect workers' compensation coverage, as may be determined by the insurer or by state law.
(Ord. No. O-016-15, § VI, 8-20-2015)
Sec. 14-25. - Compensation for fire protection service.
The city shall compensate each firefighter as follows:
(1)
The city shall pay the sum of $10.00 per incident to each volunteer firefighter who responds to an emergency call in the city.
(2)
The city shall pay the sum of $10.00 per session to each firefighter attending the two regularly scheduled training sessions held by the city, not to exceed the sum of $20.00 per month.
(3)
The city shall pay the sum of $10.00 per class to each firefighter attending additional training courses offered by the McRae-Helena Firefighter's Association or through a partnership with another organization, provided the firefighter completes the course and all required testing.
(Ord. No. O-016-15, § VII, 8-20-2015)
Sec. 14-26. - Disclaimer.
O.C.G.A. § 34-9-1(2) provides that a city may elect to include volunteer firefighters in its workers' compensation coverage. To the extent not prohibited by law, any action or lack of action on the part of a volunteer firefighter which adversely affects his ability to collect benefits under the terms of the city's workers' compensation insurance policy, shall absolve the city of any responsibility for provision of coverage or compensation for injury or other damage arising from his service as a firefighter for the city.
(Ord. No. O-016-15, § VIII, 8-20-2015)
