ARTICLE XVI. - ENFORCEMENT AND REMEDIES

Section 161. - Violation.
This resolution is adopted pursuant to the 1982 Constitution of the State of Georgia. A violation of any provision of this resolution constitutes an offense punishable in magistrate court, and every day such violation continues shall be deemed as a separate offense.
(Ord. No. 201203-2o, 3-20-2012)
Section 162. - Zoning enforcement.
It shall be unlawful to construct, reconstruct or alter any building or other structure without first obtaining a zoning compliance permit or conditional use permit from the zoning enforcement officer, or to use such building or structure or any land without first obtaining a certificate of occupancy from the zoning enforcement officer. The zoning enforcement officer shall not issue any permit unless the requirements of this resolution are complied with.
(Ord. No. 201203-2o, 3-20-2012)
Section 163. - Subdivision enforcement.
163.1.
The filing or recording of a plat of a subdivision without approval of the planning and zoning commission constitutes a violation of this resolution, and the description by metes and bounds in the instrument of transfer or other document used in the process of selling or transfer shall not exempt the transaction from such penalties. The board of commissioners, through its attorney or other designated official, may enjoin such transfer or sale or agreement by appropriate action.
162.2.
No plat or plan of subdivision within the unincorporated area of Jones County shall be filed or recorded by a subdivider in the office of the clerk of the superior court of Jones County until it shall have been submitted to and approved by the planning and zoning commission and such approval entered in writing on the plat by the secretary of the planning and zoning commission. The clerk of the superior court shall not file or record a plat of a subdivision which does not have the approval of the planning and zoning commission.
(Ord. No. 201203-2o, 3-20-2012)
Section 164. - Remedies.
In any case any building or structure is or is proposed to be erected, constructed, reconstructed, altered, converted, or maintained, or any building, structure or land is or is proposed to be used in violation of this resolution, the zoning enforcement officer, county attorney, or other appropriated authority of Jones County or any adjacent or neighboring property owner who would be specially damaged by such violation may, in addition to other remedies, institute injunction, mandamus, or other appropriate action or proceeding to prevent such unlawful erection, construction, reconstruction, alteration, conversion, maintenance, or use, or to correct or abate such violation, or to prevent the occupancy of said building, structure, or land.
(Ord. No. 201203-2o, 3-20-2012)
