ARTICLE III. - DEFINITIONS OF TERMS USED IN THIS RESOLUTION

Section 31. - General.
Except as otherwise provided herein, all words shall have the customary dictionary meaning. The present tense includes the future tense and the future tense includes the present tense. The singular number includes the plural and the plural includes the singular. The word "person" includes a firm, corporation, association, organization, trust or partnership. The word "lot" includes "plot" or "parcel". The word "building" includes "structure". The word "shall" is always mandatory. The word "may" is permissive. The word "used" or "occupied" as applied to any land or building shall be construed to include the words "intended, arranged, or designed to be used or occupied." The word "maps" means the official zoning district maps for the unincorporated area of Jones County, Georgia. The words "zone," "zoning district", and "district" have the same meaning. When connecting two or more permissible uses or activities, the word "or" shall be construed to include the word "and."
(Ord. No. 201203-2o, 3-20-2012)
Section 32. - Specific definitions.
When used in this resolution, the following words and phrases shall have the meaning given in this section:
(1)
Accessory use: A use customarily incidental to the principal use of land and located on the same lot with such principal use or structure.
(2)
Alley: A public way dedicated to and accepted by a governing body, providing a secondary means of access to abutting properties.
(3)
Automobile service station: Any area of land, including any buildings or structures thereon, that is used to dispense motor vehicle fuels, oils, and accessories at retail, and where repair service is incidental and no storage or parking space is offered for rent.
(4)
Block: A piece or parcel of land entirely surrounded by public highways or streets, other than alleys.
(5)
Board of commissioners: The board of commissioners of Jones County, Georgia.
(6)
Boarding house: A building other than a hotel or motel where, for compensation, lodging is provided for terms of one week or more, for more than two but not more than 20 persons, in more than two rooms that, individually or collectively, do not constitute separate dwelling units.
(7)
Building: Any structure permanently or temporarily attached to the ground.
(8)
Building, accessory: A subordinate building, the use of which is incidental to that of the dominant use of the main building or land.
(9)
Building, alterations of: Any change in the supporting members of a building, such as bearing walls, beams, columns, and girders, except such change may be required for its safety, or any addition to a building, or any change in use resulting from moving a building from one location to another.
(10)
Building, height of: The vertical distance from the average elevation of the proposed finished grade at the front of the building to the highest point of the roof for flat roofs; to the mean level between the eaves and ridge for gable, hip, and gambrel roofs; and to the deck line for mansard roofs.
(11)
Building line: The line beyond which the foundation wall or any enclosed or covered porch, vestibule, or other enclosed or covered portion of a building shall not project.
(12)
Building, principal: The primary building on a lot or a building that houses a principal use.
(13)
Business, retail: Business establishments that generally sell commodities or services in varying quantities to the general public. These commodities or services are mainly for the use of the purchaser.
(14)
Business, wholesale: Business establishments that generally sell commodities or services in large quantities or by the piece to retailers, jobbers, other wholesale businesses, or manufacturing establishments. These commodities or services are mainly for use in the fabrication of a product, or for use by a business service.
(15)
Campground: Any lot upon which are temporarily situated two or more recreational vehicles or tents for a period of less than thirty days.
(16)
Change of occupancy: A discontinuance of an existing use and substitution of a use of a different kind or class. Change of occupancy does not include a change of tenants or proprietors, unless accompanied by a change in type of use.
(17)
Club: Buildings and facilities owned or operated by a corporation, association, person, or persons for social, educational, or recreational purposes, but not primarily for profit or to render a service to the general public.
(18)
Clinic: An establishment where patients, who are not lodged overnight, are admitted for examination and treatment.
(19)
Commission: The Jones County Planning and Zoning Commission.
(20)
Communication tower: A structure situated on a site that is intended for transmitting or receiving radio, television, or telephonic communication.
(21)
Condominium: A form of individual ownership of a unit, combined with joint ownership of common areas of the building and grounds in development as provided for in the Georgia Condominium Act.
(22)
Construction, actual: The commencement and continuous, uninterrupted prosecution [execution] of construction for the purpose of permanent placement and fastening of materials to the land or structure, for which a permit required pursuant to this resolution has been issued for the same purposes. Construction includes filling, grading, the installation of drainage facilities, and substantial demolition, clearing, excavation, or removal of an existing structure preparatory to new construction, provided that work shall be reasonably continuous until the completion of the new construction.
(23)
Convenience store: A single story retail store containing less than 2,000 square feet of gross floor area that is designed and stocked to sell primarily food, beverages, and other household supplies to the customers who purchase only relatively few items, in contrast to a "supermarket". It is designed to attract, and depends upon a large volume of stop and go traffic.
(24)
Day care center: Any place operated by a person, society, agency, corporation, institution, or any other group, wherein are received for pay seven or more children for group care, without transfer or custody, for more than four hours and less than 24 hours per day.
(25)
Day care home: Any place operated by any person, who receives for pay three to six children under 17 years of age for group care, without transfer of custody, for more than four hours and less than 24 hours per day.
(26)
District: A section of the unincorporated area of Jones County within which the zoning regulations are uniform.
(27)
Dwelling: A building designed or used for permanent living quarters for one or more families.
(28)
Dwelling, multifamily: A building designed for or occupied exclusively by three or more families living independently. Each dwelling unit shall be a minimum of 600 square feet in size. The exterior of the dwelling shall not have metal siding.
(29)
Dwelling, single-family (detached): A permanently sited building occupied or designed to be occupied exclusively by one family, not including dwellings defined herein as manufactured (mobile) homes or single-family attached dwellings. Each dwelling unit shall be a minimum of 600 square feet in size. The exterior of the dwelling shall not have metal siding.
(30)
Dwelling, single-family attached: One of a series of two or more single-family dwelling units on separate lots or in condominium ownership, which are joined at one or more points by one or more party walls or other common facilities, not including the walls of an enclosed courtyard or similar area. Each dwelling unit shall be a minimum of 600 square feet in size. The exterior of the dwelling shall not have metal siding.
(31)
Dwelling unit: A dwelling or portion thereof providing complete living facilities for one family.
(32)
Easement: A grant by a property owner of the use of land for a specific purpose or purposes by the general public, a corporation, or a certain person or persons.
(33)
Employee: Any person working in a business establishment, including a proprietor, owner, or partner, whether paid or unpaid.
(34)
Family: One or more persons occupying a dwelling and living as a single housekeeping unit, as distinguished from persons occupying a boarding house, lodging house, or hotel, as herein defined.
(35)
Flag lot: A parcel of land having no building site facing a public or private street or streets and having frontage upon any public or private street or streets only for ingress and egress to the building site of said lot. Street frontage must be a minimum of 30 feet. See Figure 1:
(36)
Frontage, lot: The distance for which the front boundary line of the lot and the street line are coincident.
(37)
Frontage, street: All of the property on the side of a street between two intersecting streets (crossing or terminating), or if the street is dead-ended, all of the property abutting on one side between an intersecting street and the dead end of the street.
(38)
Gross floor area: The total area of a building measured by taking the outside dimensions of the building at each floor level intended for occupancy or storage.
(39)
Home occupation: An occupation for gain or support conducted only by members of a family residing on the premises.
(40)
Hotel, motel: A building, or portion thereof, or a group of buildings, which provides sleeping accommodations in six or more separate units or rooms for transients on a daily, weekly, or similar short-term basis. Where such an establishment is permitted as a principal use, all uses customarily accessory thereto for the comfort, accommodation, and entertainment of patrons, including restaurants, but not including bars, taverns, and nightclubs unless specifically permitted, shall be permitted uses.
(41)
Junkyard: A lot, parcel of land, structure, or part thereof, used primarily for the collection, storage, and sale of wastepaper, rags, scrap metal, or discarded material, or for the collecting, dismantling, storage, and salvaging of machinery or vehicles not in running condition, or for the sale of parts thereof.
(42)
Junked vehicle: A vehicle not in operating condition which has been parked or stored upon the same lot or parcel for a period of 15 days or more.
(43)
Laundry, commercial: An establishment with facilities for laundering clothes, linens, and similar items, the facilities of which are not for hire.
(44)
Laundry and dry cleaning pickup: An establishment providing for the taking and picking up of laundry, but not having equipment for the processing of laundry.
(45)
Laundry, self-service: A business that provides home-type washing, drying, or ironing machines for hire.
(46)
Lot: A parcel of land occupied or to be occupied by one or more main buildings and accessory buildings, with such open and parking spaces as are required by the provisions of this resolution, having its frontage upon a public or private road or street.
(47)
Manufactured (mobile) home: A structure, transportable in one or more sections, which, in the traveling mode, is eight body feet or more in width or 40 body feet or more in length, or, when erected on site, is 320 or more square feet in area, and which is built on a permanent chassis and designed to be used as a dwelling with or without permanent foundation when connected to the required utilities and includes the plumbing, heating, air conditioning, and electrical systems contained herein, or any structure certified as meeting Federal Manufactured Home Construction and Safety Standards pursuant to 42 U.S.C. 5401 et seq.
(48)
Manufactured (mobile) home park: A lot, plot or parcel of land designed for or which is intended to be used for the accommodation of three or more residential manufactured homes.
(49)
Motel: See hotel.
(50)
Nonconforming use: A use of land existing at the time of the enactment or amendment of this resolution, which, by virtue of that enactment or amendment, does not conform with the regulations of the use district in which it is located.
(51)
Nursing home: A facility maintained for the purpose of providing skilled nursing care and medical supervision at a lower level than that available in a hospital to more than three persons.
(52)
Open space: A yard area which is not used for or occupied by a driveway, off-street parking lot, loading space, drying yard, or refuse storage space.
(53)
Personal care home: A building, group of buildings, facility, or place operated by a person, firm, corporation, association, organization, trust, or partnership not legally related to the individuals served, and licensed by the State of Georgia to provide community alternatives in a residential environment to institutional care for individuals in need of such care and providing a residence for such persons. Such facilities provide room, board, personal and physical care, and supervision in a family environment. The term "personal care home" shall include, but shall not be limited to, homes as established under the Georgia "Community Services Act for the Mentally Retarded" (Ga. Laws 1972, page 200), and facilities of similar intention and purpose, but shall not include facilities housing persons convicted of crimes but not housed in penal institutions.
(54)
Personal care home, congregate: A personal care home which offers care to 16 or more persons.
(55)
Personal care home, family: A personal care home in a family-type residence, noninstitutional in character, which offers care to two to six persons.
(56)
Personal care home, group: A personal care home in a residence or other type of building or buildings, noninstitutional in character, which offers care to seven to 15 persons.
(57)
Plat: A map, plan or layout of a county, city, town, section or subdivision indicating the location and boundaries of properties.
(58)
Private road: Any road, street, highway or other means of vehicular access, to a parcel of land not maintained by the Georgia Department of Transportation or Jones County (or any other public agency), regardless of ownership.
(59)
Professional: When used in connection with "use", "office", and "occupancy", a use or occupancy by persons generally engaged in rendering personal, executive, sales or administrative services or activities, including, but not limited to, accountants, architects, engineers, land surveyors, doctors, lawyers, insurance offices, real estate offices, religious organizations, stockbrokers, and administrative agencies considered professional in character. This term does not include repairs or sales of tangible personal property stored or located on the premises or any use which would create any loud noise or noxious odors.
(60)
Recreational vehicle (travel trailer): A vehicular portable structure designed as a temporary dwelling, containing not more than 320 feet of floor area and not more than eight feet in width.
(61)
Residential child care facility: An institution, society, agency or facility providing full-time care for children under 17 years of age outside of their own homes, including temporary shelters or other facilities for children and their families or portions thereof. This term shall include "child-caring institutions", as defined in the Georgia Children Youth Act (O.C.G.A. ยง 49-5-1), but shall not include foster family homes.
(62)
Sign: Any words, lettering, parts of letters, figures, numerals, phrases, sentences, emblems, devices, designs, trade names or marks, or combinations thereof, by which anything is made known, such as the designation of an individual, a firm, an association, a profession, a business, a commodity or product which are visible from any public way and used as outdoor display.
(63)
Sign, outdoor advertising: A structural poster panel or painted sign, either freestanding or attached to a building, for the purpose of conveying information, knowledge or ideas about a subject unrelated to the premises upon which it is located.
(64)
Structure: Anything constructed or erected, the use of which requires a location on the ground, or to be attached to something having a location on the ground.
(65)
Subdivider: Any person who undertakes the subdivision of land as herein defined.
(66)
Subdivision: Any division of a tract or parcel of land into two or more lots, building sites or other divisions for the purpose, whether immediate or future, of sale, legacy, or building development. Subdivision includes any division of land involving a new street or a change in existing streets and includes resubdivision and, where appropriate to the context, relates to the process of subdividing or to the land or area subdivided; provided, however, that the following are not included in this definition:
a.
The sale or exchange of parcels of land between separate or common owners of adjoining properties provided that additional lots are not thereby created, and that the lots created are in accordance with the provisions of this resolution.
(67)
Yard: A space on the same lot with a main building, such space being open, unoccupied and unobstructed by buildings or structures from ground to sky except where encroachments and accessory buildings are expressly permitted.
(68)
Yard, front: An open, unoccupied space on the same lot with the principal building, extending the full width of the lot and situated between the right-of-way line and the front line of the building projected to the side lines of the lot. The depth of the front yard shall be measured between the front line of the building and the right-of-way line. Covered porches, whether enclosed or unenclosed, shall be considered as part of the main building and shall not project into a required front yard. On corner lots the front yard shall be considered to be parallel to the street upon which the lot has its least dimension.
(69)
Yard, rear: An open space on the same lot with the main building, such space being unoccupied except by accessory buildings, extending the full width of the lot and situated between the rear line of the lot and the rear line of the main building projected to the side lines of the lot. On all corner lots the rear yard shall be at the opposite end of the lot from the front yard.
(70)
Yard, side: An open, unoccupied space on the same lot with a main building, situated between the side line of the building and the adjacent side line of the lot extending from the rear line of the front yard to the front line of the rear yard. If no rear yard is required, the rear boundary of the side yard shall be the rear line of the lot. On corner lots, the side yard shall be considered to be parallel to the street upon which the lot has its greatest dimension.
(71)
Zoning enforcement officer: The person designated by the board of commissioners of Jones County, Georgia, to enforce and administer the provisions of this resolution.
(Ord. No. 201203-2o, 3-20-2012)
