ARTICLE XIV. - REQUIRED SUBDIVISION IMPROVEMENTS

Section 141. - Monuments.
The subdivider shall place permanent reference monuments in accordance with the following provisions:
141.1.
Right-of-way monuments. Iron pins shall be embedded at least two feet into the ground on street right-of-way lines at street intersections and at each point where the right-of-way line changes direction. Such iron pins shall be at least five-eighths of one inch in diameter. They shall be spaced so as to be within sight of each other. The top surface of each marker shall be approximately level with the ground surface.
141.2.
Property line monuments. Iron pins shall be embedded at least two feet into the ground at each lot corner, at each point where the property line changes direction, and no more than 1,400 feet apart in any straight line. Where property lines follow rivers or streams the meander lines shall be established and monumented not less than 20 feet back from the bank of such river or stream, except that when such corners or points fall within a street, or proposed future street, the monuments shall be placed on the right-of-way line of the street. Such iron pins shall be at least five-eighths of one inch in diameter. The top surface of such iron pins shall be approximately level with the ground surface.
141.3.
Lot lines extending into rivers and streams. The lines of lots that extend into rivers or streams shall be monumented in the field by iron pins not less than two feet long and five-eighths of one inch in diameter. Such iron pins shall be placed at the point of intersection of the lot line with a meander line established not less than 20 feet back from the bank of the river or stream.
(Ord. No. 201203-2o, 3-20-2012)
Section 142. - Special classification of streets for construction.
All streets shall be classified for construction purposes only as follows: Any subdivision of land in Jones County divided into ten-acre lots and having more than three lots, shall have paved streets as set forth in planning and zoning regulations.
142.1.
Class I street. A Class I street shall be paved, curbed, and guttered in accordance with the specifications required herein, and shall be required in all zoning districts except AG-1, R-MH, R-R, R-1, R-2, R-3 and R-1-R, but may be so located if the subdivider so desires. Right-of-way width requirements shall be in accordance with section 133 herein.
142.2.
Class II street. A Class II street shall be paved in accordance with the specifications required herein, but no curbs or gutters shall be required. A Class II street shall be required as a minimum for all streets in R-1, R-2, R-3 and R-1-R districts, and for freeways, expressways, arterial streets, and collector streets in an AG-1 district. Right-of-way width requirements for a Class II street shall be as required in section 133 of this resolution.
142.3.
Class III street. A Class III street shall be paved in accordance with the specifications required herein. Class III streets shall be required as a minimum in AG-1, AG-R, R-1, R-2, R-3, R-1A, R-1R, R-MH, and R-R districts for all streets except freeways, expressways, arterial streets, and collector streets, which shall be Class II streets as required in section 142.2. Right-of-way width requirements for a Class III street shall be as required in section 133 herein.
142.4.
Private roads. The purpose of this resolution is to encourage orderly development, to protect against the adverse effects of premature development, and to protect health and safety by encouraging a practical response time for police protection and rescue service.
142.41.
Number of lots permitted. A maximum of five lots shall be served by a private road including lots having frontage on public roads. A maximum of three lots will be permitted without frontage on a public road. Flag lots will not be permitted. Driveways for each lot served by the private road shall be physically located on the private road and will be constructed prior to final plat approval. Any further subdividing shall require a variance pursuant to section 116, provided that the variance will be submitted to the Jones County Board of Commissioners. A private road that is built to all applicable standards for a new county road may be served by any number of lots approved by the Jones County Planning and Zoning Commission.
142.42.
Cost responsibility. No private roads that have not been deeded or dedicated to the county shall be maintained or built by the county. Maintenance and construction costs of these roads not deeded or dedicated shall be borne solely by the owners affected, with no liability to the county. This statement shall be placed on each plat of record before recording by the Jones County Superior Court Clerk's Office. Deeds to transfer title of property shall expressly state that access to the lot is provided by a road that is not county maintained. A road maintenance agreement shall be required which shall be filed concurrently with the deed.
142.43.
Private road construction. The right-of-way of all private roads shall not be less than 60 feet and the roads shall be properly designed in accordance with the existing planning and zoning regulations for the construction of minor Class III streets; with the exception of section 132.5 and section 145.6. Construction of private roads shall be completed before final plat approval is rendered by the Jones County Planning and Zoning Commission.
142.44.
Signs. The subdivider shall incur the cost of installing a street name sign and any regulatory signs. A legal stop sign shall be placed and continually maintained at the intersection of a private road and a public road. The private road will bear a sign indicating that it is a "private" road, which may be incorporated into the street name sign. Costs incurred after the initial installation will be the responsibility of the property owners.
142.45.
Construction drawings. Construction drawings as required by section 124.7 shall not be required for new private roads that serve up to five lots.
(Ord. No. 201203-2o, 3-20-2012)
Section 143. - Additional street design requirements.
143.1.
Grades, horizontal curves, tangents, and sight distances. The following street design requirements shall be adhered to in addition to other requirements stated herein:
Table 14
EXPAND
Expressways, Freeways, Arterial Streets Collector Streets Other Streets
Maximum street grades 6% 8% 12%
Minimum radii of centerline curvature 800' 500' 100'
Minimum length of tangent between reverse curves 300' 200' 100'
Minimum stopping sight distance 350' 240' 200'
  143.2.
Vertical curves. All changes in grade shall be connected by vertical curves of minimum length in feet equal to 15 times the algebraic difference in percent of grades for expressways, freeways, arterial and collector streets, and one-half this minimum length for other streets. Profiles of all streets showing natural and finished grades drawn to a scale of not less than one inch equals 100 feet horizontally, and one inch equals 20 feet vertically may be required by the planning and zoning commission.
(Ord. No. 201203-2o, 3-20-2012)
Section 144. - Basic construction requirements for all classes of streets.
144.1.
Grading. All streets, roads, and alleys shall be graded to their full width by the subdivider so that pavements and sidewalks, where required or if installed in the future, can be constructed on the same level plane. The preparation of the right-of-way before grading is started and the construction of cuts and fills shall be accomplished in accordance with the requirements herein and other specifications of the board of commissioners.
144.2.
Storm drainage. An adequate drainage system based on at least the ten-year rainfall frequency including necessary curb, pipes, culverts, headwalls, and ditches shall be provided for the proper drainage of all surface water. All culverts that are installed shall be either concrete, asphalt-coated, galvanized aluminum, or a DOT approved double wall plastic pipe.
144.3.
Installation of utilities. After grading is completed and approved and before any base is applied, all of the underground utilities, including water mains, sewer mains, gas mains, and all service connections related thereto, shall be installed completely and approved throughout the length of the street and across the flat section. All driveways for houses to be built by the subdivider shall be cut and drained. Where the utility mains are off the pavement, the subdivider may elect to omit the installation of service connections provided that at such time as these service connections are needed, they may be jacked across the street without breaking or weakening the existing pavement.
144.4.
Slopes and shoulder improvements. The minimum ratio for all fill or cut slopes shall be two to one and the minimum width for all shoulders from back edge of curb, if installed, shall be eight feet. All shoulders shall slope one-half inch to the foot. When all construction is completed, all slopes and shoulders shall be cleared of all rubbish and will be hydroseeded and mulched with Bermuda seed.
144.5.
Installation of driveways. The subdivider shall be responsible for the correct installation of driveways and each driveway will conform to the technical standards established by the board of commissioners. It shall be the responsibility of the developer to obtain permits or to see that each landowner obtains permits in accordance with the Jones County Culvert Installation Policy. The driveways must be approved by the Jones County Public Works Director or designated employee. The developer's responsibility for correct installation ends after acceptance of the development roads by Jones County. All driveways except those located on private roads must be installed by the public works department after the required fee has been paid to the county by the builder or property owner. A driveway that crosses an existing sidewalk must be installed in accordance with the typical section shown in section 147.5.
144.6.
Road striping. All new roads shall be provided with a five-inch wide solid double yellow center line. The lines shall be constructed in accordance with section 652 of the Georgia Department of Transportation Specification.
144.7.
Road permit. All new roads that will intersect with an existing county road shall obtain a permit from the Jones County Board of Commissioners. This permit shall be obtained prior to issuance of any development permits or approval of a preliminary or final plat.
144.8.
Reserved.
144.9.
Erosion control. Before commencement of any land-disturbing activity, a land disturbance permit must be obtained from the planning and zoning office. All erosion and sedimentation control methods shown on the plan approved by the Natural Resources Conservation Service will be installed and inspected by the public works director prior to any land disturbance. All silt fences will be trenched into the ground a minimum of six inches with a mechanical trencher. All requirements of the Jones County Soil Erosion and Sedimentation Control Ordinance and Sections 161, 162, 163 and 171, pages 108—128 of the Georgia Department of Transportation Standard Specifications Construction of Roads and Bridges, 1993 Edition. All required erosion and sedimentation control methods will be maintained until final stabilization is achieved.
144.10.
Clearing and grubbing. Clearing and grubbing shall begin after all erosion control measures are properly installed. The clearing operation will be checked periodically by the public works director. All clearing has to be completed and approved by the public works director before grading can begin. All clearing and grubbing will be performed in accordance with section 201, pages 129—134 of the Georgia Department of Transportation Standard Specifications Construction of Roads and Bridges, 1993 Edition.
144.11.
Subgrade construction. Grading construction operations will begin after the clearing and grubbing has been approved by the public works director. The streets will be graded according to the typical section found in section 145.10 of this resolution. The public works director will do periodic checks during the grading operations and call for compaction tests as needed. Ninety-five percent compaction is required with the last six inches being 100 percent compaction. Any unsuitable material is to be removed and replaced. All subgrade construction will be performed in accordance with section 209, pages 156—159 of the Georgia Department of Transportation Standard Specifications Construction of Roads and Bridges, 1993 Edition.
144.12.
Graded aggregate construction. After the top six inches of subgrade have been completed as per the typical section found in section 145.10, have achieved 100 percent compaction, and have been approved by the public works director, the contractor may begin placing graded aggregate base material. The base shall be six inches thick with 100 percent compaction as shown in the typical section. All graded aggregate base construction will be performed in accordance with section 310, pages 226—230 of the Georgia Department of Transportation Standard Specifications Construction of Roads and Bridges, 1993 Edition.
144.13.
Bituminous prime. After the graded aggregate base operations are complete with 100 percent compaction that conforms to the typical section and has been approved by the public works director, it shall be primed. After the prime has been applied, a seven-day waiting period is needed for curing. All bituminous prime will be applied in accordance with section 412, pages 283—285 of the Georgia Department of Transportation Standard Specifications Construction of Roads and Bridges, 1993 Edition.
144.14.
Hot mix recycled asphaltic concrete. After the curing period is complete on the bituminous prime, the contractor can begin placing the two inches of recycled asphaltic concrete "B" binder. Once the binder material has been placed, the contractor will place the one and five-tenths inches of recycled asphaltic concrete "E" mix. Both layers of the recycled asphaltic concrete are to have a compaction of 96 percent of the theoretical density. All recycled asphaltic concrete will be applied in accordance with Sections 402 and 828, pages 270—273, 919—924 of the Georgia Department of Transportation Standard Specifications Construction of Roads and Bridges, 1993 Edition.
(Ord. No. 201203-2o, 3-20-2012; Min. of 1-7-2014)
Section 145. - Roadway surfacing and paving.
The following minimum requirements shall be adhered to for the surfacing and paving of streets and roads:
145.1.
Pavement base. The pavement bases of Class I, Class II, and Class III streets shall conform to the requirements in section 144.12.
145.2.
Thickness of pavement. The pavement of Class I, Class II, and Class III streets shall conform to the requirements in section 144.14.
145.3.
Minimum pavement width. All Class I and Class II minor residential streets shall have a minimum pavement width of 27 feet from back of curb to back of curb, or 20 feet from edge of pavement to edge of pavement if no curb and gutters are installed. All other street width pavements shall be determined by the commission and the board of commissioners as required.
145.4.
Pavement breaks for utility connections. When it is necessary for a subdivider or any utility company to break existing pavement for the installation of utilities, for drainage facilities, or for any other purpose, the subdivider, or utility company, shall be financially responsible for the repair of the pavement. The pavement shall be repaired in accordance with the specifications required herein for construction of streets.
145.5.
Curbs and gutters. Either the regular six-inch or four-inch rollover concrete curbs and gutters with a minimum overall width of 24 inches shall be constructed on all Class I streets. Cement concrete valley gutters shall be permitted across minor residential streets at street intersections only when no storm sewers are available as determined by the zoning enforcement officer. Valley gutters shall be at least six feet in width. Whenever driveway openings are provided for lots abutting the street, the driveway shall be six inches thick and a minimum of ten feet in width at the sidewalk or at the street right-of-way line. The driveway shall have a three-foot radius at the curb line. Where ditches are used for drainage, culverts and driveways providing access to each lot shall be installed. Culverts thus installed shall be sufficient for adequate drainage and shall be installed so as to be resistant to damage from future construction or maintenance activities. When a road with curb and gutter intersects with an existing road without curb and gutter, valley curb will be required within ten feet of the intersection. No other type of curbing will be permitted in this area.
145.6.
Class III streets. Minimum width of a Class III street shall be 20 feet, with a minimum five-foot shoulder.
145.7.
Reserved.
145.8.
Reserved.
145.9.
Reserved.
145.10.
Centerline profile. The following is a typical section for a new subdivision street:
145.11.
Road patching standards. When making patches to subdivision roads, the following standards will need to be followed:
145.111.
An inspector from Jones County will need to be on site the entire time work is being performed on the project. Twenty-four hours' notice shall be required.
145.112.
All areas in need of correction will have been outlined with paint by the county inspector. All outlined sections will need to be corrected.
145.113.
All patching will be performed in the following manner:
A.
Entire outlined section will be excavated to firm material.
B.
New sub-base will be installed to 95 percent compaction with the final six inches compacted to 100 percent compaction. All subgrade construction will be performed in accordance with section 209, pages 156—159 of the Georgia Department of Transportation Standard Specifications Construction of Roads and Bridges, 1993 Edition.
C.
After the top six inches of subgrade have achieved 100 percent compaction and have been approved by public works, the contractor may begin placing graded aggregate base material. The base shall be six inches thick with 100 percent compaction. All graded aggregate base construction will be performed in accordance with section 310, pages 226—230 of the Georgia Department of Transportation Standard Specifications Construction of Roads and Bridges, 1993 Edition.
D.
Once 100 percent compaction has been achieved on the graded aggregate base, the contractor can begin placing the two inches of recycled asphaltic concrete "B" binder. After the binder material has cooled, the contractor will place the one inch of recycled asphaltic concrete "E" mix. Both layers of the recycled asphaltic concrete are to have a compaction of 96 percent of the theoretical density. All recycled asphaltic concrete will be applied in accordance with Sections 402 and 828, pages 270—273, 919—924 of the Georgia Department of Transportation Standard Specifications Construction of Roads and Bridges, 1993 Edition.
145.114.
Any intersections with patches in them, or if patches are within 20 feet of the intersection, will need to be overlaid. The entire intersection will need to be overlaid to the back of the radius with 90# overlay.
145.115.
Any and all patches are to be overlaid with 90# of asphaltic concrete "G" for the entire width of the road. No skips in overlay are to be less than 100 feet apart.
145.116.
If, during the excavation of an area to be patched, it is found to have less than six inches of base, additional asphalt around the patch will be removed until six inches of base is found.
(Ord. No. 201203-2o, 3-20-2012)
Section 146. - Installation of utilities.
146.1.
Water. Water mains for both domestic use and fire protection shall be properly connected with the public water system or with an alternate water supply approved by the Jones County Health Department. The lines shall be constructed in such a manner as to serve adequately all lots shown on the subdivision plat. The lines shall be installed in conformance with the technical standards as established by the board of commissioners.
146.2.
Sewer. A publicly connected sanitary sewer system shall be installed when the cost of installing such a system does not exceed 150 percent of the cost of installing septic tanks for all lots in the subdivision, and where said system is available from a public agency, subject to regulation by the board of commissioners, or as the result of a contract between that board and another public agency or body. Where lots cannot be economically connected with a sewerage system, they must contain adequate area for the installation of septic tanks and disposal fields approved by the Jones County Health Department. All sewer facilities shall be installed in accordance with the standards of the department of public health of the State of Georgia, and the Jones County Board of Commissioners.
146.3.
Gas. When gas mains are connected with the gas distribution system of the unincorporated area of Jones County, the lines shall be installed in such a manner as to serve adequately all lots shown on the subdivision plats. The gas lines shall be constructed in conformance with the technical standards established by the board of commissioners.
146.4.
Utility placement schedule. All utilities installed on the right-of-way of subdivision streets will be installed according to the following:
For streets with curb and gutter:
For open ditch:
(Ord. No. 201203-2o, 3-20-2012)
Section 147. - Sidewalks and street signs.
147.1.
Location of sidewalks. Sidewalks shall be provided in each subdivision as follows:
R-R residential - Only on one side of street. Not required if average lot size in the subdivision is over two acres.
R-1 residential - Only on one side of street. Not required if average lot size in the subdivision is over two acres.
R-1A residential - Only on one side of street. Not required if average lot size in the subdivision is over two acres.
R-2 residential - Only on one side of street.
R-3 residential - Both sides of street.
R-MH residential - Only on one side of street. Not required if average lot size in the subdivision is over two acres.
R-1-R residential - None.
Other zoning districts: As required by the planning and zoning commission.
147.11.
Exception. An exception to the requirements of section 147.1 for the R-R, R-MH and R-1 districts shall be granted to additional phases of existing developments. For the purpose of this section an existing development is a development that was under construction as of December 5, 2000.
147.2.
Sidewalk construction. All sidewalks installed on the county right-of-way shall be a minimum of four feet wide, four inches thick, provided with an expansion joint every 60 feet and a control joint every ten feet and shall be of State Class A concrete based on Table 500.03, page 399 of the Georgia Department of Transportation Standard Specifications Construction of Roads and Bridges, 1993 Edition. Sidewalks shall be placed on 90 percent compacted fill that is free of vegetative material. A minimum of a four-inch chase shall be provided 12 inches under the sidewalk within one to four feet from any property lines. For streets that have a curb, a 30- to 60-inch grass planting strip shall be provided between the back of the curb and the sidewalk, and sidewalks shall slope one-fourth inch to the foot toward the curb. For streets that have an open ditch, a 24- to 60-inch grass planting strip shall be provided between the edge of the road and the sidewalk, and sidewalks shall slope one-fourth inch to the foot away from the road. A slope not exceeding one to eight must be maintained by the sidewalk where it intersects with a driveway. Sidewalks must be completed before the final plat is approved by the county. Unpaved private roads are not required to install sidewalks.
147.3.
Street signs required. All new or existing roads, public or private, which are included in a subdivision shall be furnished and installed with street name signs as specified in section 147.4. All necessary traffic signs (slow, stop, caution, school bus stop, children at play, 25 mph, etc.) will be furnished and installed at proper locations. Materials for signs will be approved by the board of commissioners, and all expenses incurred will be borne by the developer at no cost to the county.
147.4.
Location of street identification signs. All streets shall be designated by name on a metal street sign post approved by the board of commissioners, with such metal post having nameplates of metal set one above the other with a clearance of seven feet. The post shall be so located as to be visible for both pedestrian and vehicular traffic. At cross-street intersections, two street sign posts shall be located diagonally across the intersection from each other. Only one street sign post shall be required at T-street intersections.
147.5
Figure.
(Ord. No. 201203-2o, 3-20-2012; Ord. of 1-7-2014)
Section 148. - Administrative procedures.
The administrative procedures for installing the subdivision improvements required herein shall be as follows:
148.1.
When construction may begin. Construction and installation of any required public improvements as described herein shall not begin until the planning and zoning commission has given preliminary approval of the new subdivision. The subdivider shall then confer with the zoning enforcement officer to determine the method and estimated cost of the construction and installation of the required improvements.
148.2.
Inspections and approval by the board of commissioners. During the construction and installation of the required public improvements, the zoning enforcement officer shall from time to time make field inspections of said work as predetermined and agreed upon by the zoning enforcement officer and the subdivider. After completion of all the construction and installation of the required public improvements, and if the said work has met the specifications as described herein as determined by the zoning enforcement officer, the zoning enforcement officer shall notify the subdivider in writing of the approval of said work.
148.3.
Official acceptance by the board of commissioners. The board of commissioners shall officially accept the completed work on the construction and installation of required public improvements three years from the date of the written acceptance by the zoning enforcement officer.
148.4.
Maintenance of completed work. The subdivider shall maintain his completed work until the official acceptance by the board of commissioners as described in section 148.3 above. The subdivider shall be required to sign a maintenance bond agreement with the board of commissioners. If a maintenance bond is posted by the subdivider, a bond equaling 50 percent of the construction cost shall be required. The bond presented must be from a bonding company that has current approval from the Georgia Department of Transportation. One hundred eighty days before the expiration of the maintenance period, the zoning enforcement officer shall make final inspection and notify the subdivider of any needed repairs. If repairs have not been completed by 90 days before the expiration of the maintenance period, the zoning director shall cause the needed repairs to be completed. The zoning director shall notify the bonding company of the cost of making necessary corrections, and the cost of maintenance. These costs shall be deducted from the maintenance funds, and the subdivider charged with any costs above the amount of maintenance funds. When the completed work has been accepted by the board of commissioners in accordance with section 148.3, the remainder of the maintenance funds shall be released to the subdivider.
148.5.
Cost of improvements.
148.51.
Subdividers' responsibility. The subdivider shall incur the cost of construction and installation of all required public improvements based on the following:
(1)
Streets: Incur the cost for the construction of streets up to 27 feet in pavement width from back of curb to back of curb, or 24 feet in pavement width from edge of pavement to edge of pavement if no curbs and gutters are installed.
(2)
Water and sewer systems: Incur the cost for the installation of all water and sewer systems which are required to serve the new subdivision and tie in with existing water and sewer systems, based on the specifications set forth herein.
(3)
Sidewalks: Entire cost.
(4)
Monuments: Entire cost.
(5)
Traffic control and street signs: Entire cost.
148.52.
Board of commissioners' responsibility. The board of commissioners shall partially participate in sharing the cost of construction and installation of required public improvements for the following conditions:
(1)
Streets: Incur the cost for any additional required pavement which is in excess of 27 feet for streets with curbs and gutters and in excess of 24 feet for streets without curbs and gutters, and any additional grading and paving relating thereto.
(2)
Water and sewer system: Incur cost for any difference in the cost of the laying of oversized pipe and outfall systems which are needed in excess of the required water and sewer facilities needed to exclusively serve the new subdivision, as determined by the planning and zoning commission and board of commissioners.
148.53.
Property owner's responsibility. Whenever the board of commissioners is petitioned in writing by the property owners to upgrade a Class II street to a Class I street, a Class III street to a Class II street, or a Class III street to a Class I street, the property owners shall then incur the entire cost for said improvements based on the footage along the property line of each lot abutting the street which is being improved, and on the requirements in section 148.51 above.
148.54.
Estimated costs for construction and installation. The current unit prices in effect at the time of submission of plans shall be used in determining the total estimated cost for construction and installation or required public improvements in new subdivisions.
(Ord. No. 201203-2o, 3-20-2012; Min. of 1-7-2014)
Section 149. - Testing.
Engineering analysis shall be performed according to the following matrix:
Table 17
EXPAND
Type of Tests to be Performed Minimum Number of Tests to be Performed Testing Standard
Subgrade compaction (density - in place) One per 500 linear feet of roadway 95% maximum density ASTM - 1557, D-1556, D-2992, and D-2167
Subgrade fill compaction One per every 2 to 3 feet of vertical fill
Base compaction (density - in place) One per 500 linear feet of roadway 100% maximum density ASTM - 1557 modified proctor
Depth check Same as compaction
Asphaltic concrete (density - in place) One per 1,000 linear feet of roadway 92% laboratory density
  149.1.
Required notification. The developer shall notify the director of public works, or other authorized county official, a minimum of 24 hours in advance when the roadway is ready to be tested.
149.2.
Financial responsibility. The developer will be financially responsible to the testing agency for all required tests.
149.3.
Proofroll. All base will be load tested with a minimum 18-ton tandem dump, or equal, to cover base thoroughly by lapping the tires on width each pass to assure a minimum tolerance of one-half inch of settling and to ensure no cracking or pumping prior to paving. This is to be witnessed by the director of public works, or designated county representative.
(Ord. No. 201203-2o, 3-20-2012)
