ARTICLE V. - APPLICATION OF REGULATIONS
Except as hereinafter provided:

Section 51. - Use.
No building, structure or land shall hereafter be used or occupied, and no building or part thereof shall be erected, constructed, reconstructed, moved, or structurally altered except in conformity with the regulations herein specified for the district in which it is located.
(Ord. No. 201203-2o, 3-20-2012)
Section 52. - Building height and density.
No building or structure shall hereafter be erected or altered to exceed the height or density limitations established for the zoning district in which it is located.
52.1.
Prohibitions. No building shall hereafter be erected, constructed or altered as to exceed the maximum height, to house a greater number of families than is allowed, or to occupy a greater number of families than is allowed, or to occupy a greater percentage of lot area than that allowed within the zoning district in which it is located, or to in any other manner contravene the provisions of this resolution.
52.2.
Exceptions. The building height restrictions imposed on buildings and structures by the resolution for each zoning district shall not apply to the following buildings or structures:
52.21.
Churches, schools, hospitals, sanitariums, and other public and quasi-public buildings, and public utility structures, provided that the front, rear, and side yards required in the district in which the structure is located be increased one foot for each ten feet that the building or structure exceeds the maximum height permitted in the zoning district.
52.22.
Barns, silos, grain elevators, other farm structures, belfries, cupolas, domes, monuments, water towers, transmission towers, windmills, chimneys, cooling towers, smokestacks, flagpoles, radio and television towers, masts, aerials, and similar structures.
52.3.
Signs. None of the exemptions contained in section 52.2. shall apply to signs of any kind, as defined in this resolution.
(Ord. No. 201203-2o, 3-20-2012)
Section 53. - Lots and yards.
Lots and yards and other required open space hereafter shall not be created or reduced in area or dimension to have less than the minimum area or dimensions set forth herein for the zoning district in which they are located.
53.1.
Dimensions and area. No building or other structure shall hereafter be erected or altered to have smaller or narrower front yards, rear yards, side yards, or other open spaces than herein required.
53.2.
Application of requirements for multiple structures. No part of a yard or other open space or off-street parking or loading space required about or in connection with any building for the purpose of complying with this resolution shall be included as part of a yard, open space, or off-street parking or loading space similarly required for any other building.
53.3.
Reduction in area or dimension. No yard or lot existing at the time of passage of this resolution shall be reduced in dimension or area below the minimum requirements set forth herein. Yards or lots created after the effective date of this resolution shall meet at least the minimum requirements established by this resolution, except as may be allowed pursuant to the provisions of section 114.2. This section shall not apply when a portion of a lot is acquired for public use.
53.4.
Projection of buildings into required yards. Every part of a required yard or open space shall be open from ground to sky unobstructed, except for accessory buildings as provided in section 95 and for the ordinary projection of sills, cornices, buttresses, ornamental features, chimneys, flues, and eaves, provided such projection shall not extend more than two feet beyond the yard area requirements.
(Ord. No. 201203-2o, 3-20-2012)
