ARTICLE XV. - PROCEDURES FOR REQUESTING AN AMENDMENT TO THE COMPREHENSIVE LAND DEVELOPMENT RESOLUTION
The board of commissioners may, from time to time, review and, after examination and the holding of a public hearing by the planning and zoning commission, amend, supplement, or change the regulations contained herein. Proposals for amendment, whether initiated by the board of commissioners or a person, firm or corporation, shall not be acted upon until a public hearing has been held pursuant to the following procedures:

Section 151. - Initiating the hearing.
A public hearing on a proposed amendment to the text of the Comprehensive Land Development Resolution or the official zoning maps may be initiated by the board of commissioners or by any other party, according to the following provisions:
151.1.
Application by parties other than the board of commissioners. A party other than a member of the board of commissioners acting in his official capacity may request an amendment to the text of the Comprehensive Land Development Resolution or to the official zoning maps for the unincorporated area of Jones County.
151.11.
An amendment to the text of the Comprehensive Land Development Resolution or the official zoning maps may be initiated by any party other than the board of commissioners through written application submitted to the zoning enforcement officer. Any proposed amendment of the official zoning maps must be submitted by the property owner, or a notarized statement signed by the property owner consenting to the requested amendment, must be provided at the time of application submittal.
151.11.1.
Application for amendment to the text of the Comprehensive Land Development Resolution shall fully describe the proposed amendment, supplement, or change.
151.11.2.
Application for amendment to the official zoning maps shall be made on forms supplied by the zoning enforcement officer, and must be accompanied by a dimensional sketch or to-scale plan of the proposed use included in any application for amendment to the official zoning maps. Such plan shall include, at a minimum, the following:
(1)
Lot dimensions with property line monuments located thereon.
(2)
The shape, size, height, use, and location of the buildings proposed to be erected, demolished, altered, or moved, and of any buildings already on the lot, yard dimensions, and the use of structures, including the number of dwelling units within each structure, when appropriate.
(3)
Public and private easements, watercourses, and fences existing on the lot.
(4)
Street names and street right-of-way lines.
(5)
Such other information regarding abutting property as directly affects the application, including a list of the names and mailing addresses of all owners of property within 200 feet of the property for which the application is submitted, as shown on the county property tax record or as is known to the applicant.
151.11.3.
No application for amendment to the official zoning maps may be considered if, within six months prior to such application, a proposed amendment for the rezoning of the same property proposed for rezoning has been previously considered and rejected by the board of commissioners.
151.12.
Upon receipt of an application for amendment to the text of the Comprehensive Land Development Resolution or the official zoning maps, the zoning enforcement officer shall inspect the application for completeness. If the application is found to be complete, the zoning enforcement officer shall notify the chairman of the planning and zoning commission, or the historic preservation commission if an HD historic overlay district is involved, and the board of commissioners of such application. Said application shall be placed upon the agenda of the next regular meeting of the planning and zoning or historic preservation commission for which notification requirements of section 152 can be met for a public hearing. The board of commissioners shall render a final decision upon said application following the public hearing, and within 180 days of receipt of the recommendation of the planning and zoning commission or historic preservation commission relative to the application. If the application is found to be incomplete, the application will be returned to the applicant with a written statement that cites the portion or portions of the resolution with which the application does not comply.
151.13.
Any application for amendment to the text of the Comprehensive Land Development Resolution or the official zoning maps may be withdrawn by the applicant upon written notice to the zoning enforcement officer at any time prior to final action thereon by the board of commissioners.
151.2.
Amendments proposed by the board of commissioners. An amendment to the text of the comprehensive land development resolution or to the official zoning maps that is proposed in the form of a motion by a member of the board of commissioners shall be referred to the planning and zoning commission, or to the historic preservation commission if an HD historic overlay district is involved, for review. A public hearing shall be scheduled by the planning and zoning or historic preservation commission at the next scheduled meeting for which the notification requirements of section 152 can be met. The board of commissioners shall render final decision upon said proposal following the public hearing and within 30 days of receipt of the recommendation of the planning and zoning or historic preservation commission relative to the application.
(Ord. No. 201203-2o, 3-20-2012)
Section 152. - Notice of hearings.
The following requirements for notice shall apply to all applications and proposals for amendment to the text of the Comprehensive Land Development Resolution or to the official zoning maps:
152.1.
Amendments proposed by the board of commissioners. The following requirements for notice shall apply to proposals for amendment to the text of the Comprehensive Land Development Resolution or to the official zoning maps initiated in the form of a motion by a member of the board of commissioners:
152.11.
At least 15 but not more than 45 days prior to the date of a hearing held by the planning and zoning or historic preservation commission upon any proposal or application for amendment to the text of the Comprehensive Land Development Resolution or the official zoning maps, the zoning enforcement officer shall cause to be published in a newspaper of general circulation in Jones County a notice stating the time, place, and purpose of said hearing.
152.2.
Amendments proposed by parties other than the board of commissioners. The following requirements for notice shall apply to applications for amendment to the text of the Comprehensive Land Development Resolution or the official zoning maps initiated by parties other than members of the board of commissioners acting in their official capacity:
152.21.
An application for amendment to the text of the Comprehensive Land Development Resolution shall be governed by the notice requirements contained in section 152.11 of this resolution.
152.22.
The following requirements for notice shall apply to applications for amendment to the official zoning maps:
152.22.1.
The zoning enforcement officer shall cause to be published in a newspaper of general circulation in Jones County public notices, as required by section 152.11 of this resolution, but also including the location of the property, the present zoning classification, and the proposed zoning classification of the property.
152.22.2.
The zoning enforcement officer shall attempt to notify by mail each property owner within 200 feet of any property for which an amendment to the official zoning maps is sought. Such notification shall include all elements contained in public notices of hearings held by the planning and zoning or historic preservation commission published pursuant to section 152.22.1 of this resolution. Such notification shall be mailed neither less than 15 nor more than 45 days prior to any hearing held upon said application by the planning and zoning commission. Any errors or omissions that may occur in regard to this section shall not impact the zoning decision.
152.22.3.
The zoning enforcement officer shall cause to be posted in a conspicuous location on the property for which an amendment to the official zoning maps is sought one or more signs containing the date, time, and place of the hearing, and address and telephone number of the zoning enforcement officer for further information. Such sign or signs shall be posted not less than 15 days prior to any hearing held upon said application by the planning and zoning commission.
(Ord. No. 201203-2o, 3-20-2012)
Section 153. - Conducting the hearing.
The planning and zoning commission and historic preservation commission shall conduct public hearings upon proposals or applications for amendment to the official zoning maps or to the text of the Comprehensive Land Development Resolution. The historic preservation commission shall conduct hearings held relative to the HD historic overlay district, and the planning and zoning commission shall conduct all other hearings upon proposals or applications for amendments to the official zoning maps or the text of the Comprehensive Land Development Resolution.
153.1.
Hearings held by the board of commissioners, planning and zoning commission, or historic preservation commission. The following procedures shall be adhered to in hearings conducted by the board of commissioners, planning and zoning commission, or historic preservation commission upon any proposal or application for amendment to the official zoning maps or to the text of the Comprehensive Land Development Resolution:
153.11.
Opening the hearing. The chairman shall open the hearing at the time and place specified in the hearing notice. The chairman shall announce the rules of the hearing before proceeding to address the proposed amendments listed on the agenda.
153.12.
Matter presented. A description of the proposed zoning decision shall be presented by the director of planning and zoning or his or her designee.
153.13.
Speakers. Proponents of the proposed zoning decision shall have a minimum of ten minutes to present evidence, information, and/or argument supporting the proposed decision. Opponents of the proposed zoning decision shall likewise have a minimum of ten minutes to present evidence, information, and/or argument in opposition to the proposed decision. If the proponents or opponents cannot agree on an equitable distribution of the allotted ten minutes, then the chairman or his or her designee will determine how the time will be divided. In any event, every person who wishes to speak, whether in support, opposition, or otherwise, shall have a minimum of one minute to speak. If either the proponents or the opponents of an application collectively take more than ten minutes, then the other's time shall be extended similarly if desired. The county attorney or some other designee of the chairman shall keep time.
153.13.1.
Decorum and order. Each speaker shall speak only to the merits of the proposed zoning decision and shall address his or her comments to the commissioners. Each speaker shall refrain from making personal attacks or discussing facts or opinions which are irrelevant to the decision under consideration. The chairman may limit or refuse a speaker the right to continue if the speaker, after first being warned, continues to violate this paragraph. Nothing contained herein shall be construed as prohibiting the chairman from conducting the hearing in an orderly and decorous manner to assure that the public hearing on a proposed zoning decision is conducted fairly.
153.14.
Discussion and recommendation. After all persons have been given an opportunity to speak upon the proposed amendment, the planning and zoning or historic preservation commission shall discuss it and prepare a recommendation upon the proposed amendment for transmittal to the board of commissioners. Such recommendation shall include the commission's findings and conclusions, as well as supporting reasons and facts as necessary.
153.15.
Closing the hearing. After all of the proposed amendments listed on the agenda have been fully addressed pursuant to the foregoing procedure, the chairman shall declare the hearing to be closed.
153.16.
Assignment of a different zoning district. With the consent of the applicant, the board of commissioners may assign any zoning district contained in this resolution in response to a request for a map amendment, and shall not be limited to the designation requested by the applicant.
153.17.
Assignment of conditions. The board of commissioners may grant approval of an amendment to the official zoning maps subject to specific conditions. Where specific conditions are imposed, they will be reduced to writing and provided to the applicant. Any motion or request to remove conditions that have been imposed by the board of commissioners shall be treated as a new application.
(Ord. No. 201203-2o, 3-20-2012)
Section 154. - Standards for decision.
In the formulation of any recommendation by the planning and zoning commission or the making of a decision by the board of commissioners upon any application or proposal for amendment to the official zoning maps, the planning and zoning or historic preservation commission and the board of the commissioners shall balance the interest of the community in promoting the public health, safety, morals, and general welfare against the right of property owners to the unrestricted use of their property. In making these recommendations and decisions, the planning and zoning or historic preservation commission and the board of commissioners shall use the following standards:
154.1.
Whether the proposed zoning decision will permit a use of property that is suitable in view of the use and development of adjacent and nearby property;
154.2.
Whether the proposed zoning decision will adversely affect the existing use or usability of adjacent or nearby property;
154.3.
Whether the property to be affected by the proposed zoning decision has a reasonable economic use as currently zoned;
154.4.
Whether the proposed zoning decision will result in a use which will or could cause an excessive or burdensome use of existing streets, transportation facilities, utilities, or schools;
154.5.
Whether the proposed zoning decision is in conformity with the policy and intent of the land use plan;
154.6.
Whether there are other existing or changing conditions affecting the use and development of the property which give supporting grounds for either approval or disapproval of the proposed zoning decision.
154.7.
The following additional standards shall apply to decisions upon applications or proposals for amendment to the official zoning maps involving an HD historic overlay district:
154.71.
Whether the area has a special character or special historic or aesthetic value or interest.
154.72.
Whether the area represents one or more periods or styles of architecture typical of one or more eras in the history of the county, state, or region.
154.73.
Whether the foregoing factors cause such area to constitute a visibly perceptible section of the county.
(Ord. No. 201203-2o, 3-20-2012)
Section 155. - Request for rehearing.
Any person, firm, corporation, or organization whose application has been previously and finally disapproved may, within 30 days from the date of final disapproval, move that the board of commissioners authorize a rehearing of and reconsideration of the application. All motions for the rehearing of an application shall be written and submitted to the zoning enforcement officer, and no hearing shall be held upon such motion. No motion for rehearing shall be considered unless new or additional information not available at the time of the original hearing or not presented due to excusable neglect is available. A denial of such motion is a final action. The granting of such motion shall require a new hearing and a new process of notification as if the application were considered for the first time.
(Ord. No. 201203-2o, 3-20-2012)
Section 156. - Printing and distributing this article.
The zoning enforcement officer shall cause to be reproduced and shall keep available copies of this article for distribution to the general public. This article contains provisions required under the Zoning Procedures Law (Georgia Code, Title 36, Chapter 66). Distribution of this article shall conform to the requirements set forth in said law.
(Ord. No. 201203-2o, 3-20-2012)
Section 157. - Membership, appointment and term.
The planning and zoning commission shall consist of five members. Each member of the board of commissioners of Jones County, Georgia shall select an individual for appointment to the commission by the board of commissioners for overlapping terms of five years. Effective upon the expiration of the current commission member terms, all members of the planning and zoning commission must live in the same district that they represent. If a member of the commission no longer lives in the district they represent, their position will be considered vacant. The initial appointment of the planning and zoning commission shall be as follows: one member for one year, one member for two years, one member for three years, one member for four years, and one member for five years. Any vacancy in the membership shall be filled for the unexpired term in the same manner as the initial appointment.
(Ord. No. 201203-2o, 3-20-2012)
