Chapter 54 - OFFENSES AND MISCELLANEOUS PROVISIONS[1]

Footnotes:
--- (1) ---
Cross reference— Traffic and vehicles, ch. 70.
State Law reference— Criminal Code of Georgia, O.C.G.A. § 16-1-1 et seq.; limitation on home rule powers of municipal corporations with respect to duplication of state criminal offenses, O.C.G.A. § 36-35-6(a)(2).

Sec. 54-1. - Disorderly conduct.
It shall be unlawful for any person within the unincorporated area of the county to engage in any of the following activities:
(1)
Act in a violent or tumultuous manner toward another whereby any person is placed in fear of the safety of his life, limb, or health.
(2)
Act in a violent or tumultuous manner toward another whereby the property of any person is placed in danger of being damaged or destroyed.
(3)
Cause, provoke or engage in any fight, brawl or riotous conduct so as to endanger the life, limb, health, or property of another.
(4)
Assemble or congregate with another or others for the purpose of or with the intent to engage in gaming.
(5)
Be in or about any place, along or with another or others with the purpose of or intent to engage in any fraudulent scheme, trick or device to obtain any money or valuable thing; or to aid or abet any person in doing so.
(6)
Be in or about any place where gaming or the illegal sale or possession of alcoholic beverages or narcotics or dangerous drugs (controlled substances) is practiced, allowed or tolerated, for the purpose of or intent to engage in gaming or the purchase, use, possession or consumption of such illegal drugs, narcotics or alcoholic beverages.
(7)
Direct fighting words toward another, that is, words which by their very nature tend to incite a breach of the peace.
(8)
Interfere, by acts of physical obstruction, with another's pursuit of a lawful occupation.
(9)
Congregate with another or others in or on any public way or grounds so as to halt the flow of vehicular or pedestrian traffic, and to fail to clear that public way or grounds after being ordered to do so by a county law enforcement officer or other lawful authority.
(10)
Disrupt by actions which tend to incite a breach of peace the activities of any house of worship, hospital, home for the elderly or any lawful meeting, gathering, or procession.
(11)
Throw bottles, paper, cans, glass, sticks, stones, missiles, or any other debris on public property.
(12)
Be and appear in an intoxicated condition in any public place or within the curtilage of any private residence not their own other than by invitation of the owner or lawful occupant, which condition is made manifest by boisterousness, by indecent condition or act, or by vulgar, profane, or loud unbecoming language.
(Ord. of 12-11-1995, § A)
Sec. 54-2. - Loitering or prowling.
(a)
A person commits the offense of loitering or prowling when that person is in a place, at a time or in a manner not usual for law-abiding individuals, under circumstances that warrant a justifiable and reasonable alarm or immediate concern for the safety of persons or property in the vicinity or under circumstances which cause a justifiable and reasonable alarm or immediate concern that such person is involved in unlawful activity.
(b)
The circumstances which may be considered in determining whether alarm or concern is warranted include, but are not limited to, the following:
(1)
Taking flight upon the appearance of a law enforcement officer;
(2)
Refusing to identify oneself; or
(3)
Manifestly endeavoring to conceal oneself or any object.
(c)
Unless flight by the person or other circumstances makes it impractical, a law enforcement officer shall, prior to arrest for an offense under this section, afford the person an opportunity to dispel any alarm or immediate concern which would otherwise be warranted by allowing the person to produce satisfactory identification and an explanation of that person's presence and conduct.
Sec. 54-3. - Mailbox regulations.
No mailbox or decorative structure will be allowed to exist on county road right of ways if it interferes with the safety of the traveling public. Mailboxes should be constructed in accordance with the rules and regulations of the postmaster general.
Support or post must not be made of masonry or other material that will not yield upon impact. A support that will not readily yield upon impact will be considered a hazardous or fixed object and will not be allowed on county road right-of-ways.
Using wood as a mailbox support, the maximum diameter should not exceed four inches if square. Metal posts should be hollow and no larger than three inches in diameter or three by there inches if square.
All masonry structures that support mailboxes constructed before July 19, 2005, will be considered "Grand fathered" unless they constitute a danger to traffic, in which event they shall be removed.
(Ord. of 7-19-2005)
Sec. 54-4. - Public parks, recreation facilities, and cemeteries; hours of operation.
(a)
The hours of operation for all public parks, recreation facilities, and cemeteries shall be from sunrise until sundown; however, the hours may be adjusted by the director of the parks and recreation department of the county. No person shall remain in or upon the grounds of any public park, recreation facility, or cemetery during the hours when such public park, recreation facility, or cemetery is closed.
(b)
Any person convicted of a violation of this section shall be punished as provided in section 1-19.
(c)
This section may be enforced by any authorized law enforcement officer of Jones County or the Jones County Administrator and/or his designee. Where there has been a violation of this section, the law enforcement officer in his discretion may issue a citation or warning and/or order the person to leave the park, recreation facility, or cemetery.
(Ord. No. 2009-001, 12-1-2009)
