Chapter 18 - BUILDINGS, CONSTRUCTION AND RELATED ACTIVITIES[1]
Footnotes:
--- (1) ---
Cross reference— Environment, ch. 34; construction or repairing of buildings, § 34-42; fire prevention and protection, ch. 38; floods, ch. 42; new construction and substantial improvements, § 42-99; nonresidential construction, § 42-100; health and sanitation, ch. 46; historic preservation, ch. 50; demolition or relocation applications, § 50-161 et seq.; roads, ch. 58; solid waste, ch. 62; water and sewers, ch. 74; comprehensive land development, app. A; minimum distance between buildings, app. A, § 68.

ARTICLE I. - IN GENERAL

Sec. 18-1. - Self inspection by plumbers, utility contractors.
The county is exempted from the provisions of O.C.G.A. § 8-2-26(d) relating to the self inspection of certain water and sewer lines, and such provisions shall not be applicable in the county.
(Res. of 5-7-1996)
Secs. 18-2—18-30. - Reserved.
ARTICLE II. - CONSTRUCTION CODES[2]

Footnotes:
--- (2) ---
Cross reference— Conformity of building codes, § 50-5.
State Law reference— Minimum state construction codes, O.C.G.A. § 8-2-25; enforcement of minimum state construction codes, O.C.G.A. § 8-2-26; authority to adopt codes, Ga. Const. art. IX, § II, ¶ III(a)(12).

Sec. 18-31. - Adopted.
Enumeration: The following codes, the latest edition as adopted and amended by the state department of community affairs, shall be enforced by the county.
(1)
Standard Building Code;
(2)
Standard Mechanical Code;
(3)
Standard Gas Code;
(4)
Standard Plumbing Code;
(5)
National Electrical Code;
(6)
Standard Fire Prevention Code;
(7)
CABO One and Two Family Dwelling Code; and
(8)
Georgia State Energy Code for Buildings.
(Ord. of 3-3-1992, § 1; Ord. of 4-4-1995)
State Law reference— Authority to adopt technical codes, Ga. Const. art. IX, § II, ¶ III(a)(12); construction standards generally, O.C.G.A. § 8-2-1 et seq.; minimum state construction codes, O.C.G.A. § 8-2-25.
Sec. 18-32. - Enforcement.
When reference is made to the duties of certain officials named in the various construction codes adopted by this article, the designated county official shall be deemed to be the responsible official for the enforcement of such codes.
(Ord. of 3-3-1992, § 3)
Sec. 18-33. - Building department.
There is hereby established a department to be called the building department and the person in charge shall be known as the building official.
(Ord. of 3-3-1992, § 101.4)
Sec. 18-34. - Applicability.
Where, in any specific case, different sections of this article specify different materials, methods of construction or other requirements, the most restrictive shall govern. Where there is a conflict between a general requirement and a specific requirement, the specific requirement shall be applicable.
(Ord. of 3-3-1992, § 101.3)
Sec. 18-35. - Records.
The building official shall keep, or cause to be kept, a record of the business of the department. The records of the department shall be open to public inspection.
(Ord. of 3-3-1992, § 101.41)
Sec. 18-36. - Liability.
Any officer or employee charged with the enforcement of this article, acting for the applicable governing authority in the discharge of his duties, shall not thereby render himself personally liable, and is hereby relieved from all personal liability, for any damage that may accrue to persons or property as a result of any act required or permitted in the discharge of his duties. Any suit brought against any officer or employee or member because of such act performed by him in the enforcement of any provision of this article shall be defended by the department of law until the final termination of the proceedings.
(Ord. of 3-3-1992, § 101.42)
Sec. 18-37. - Right of entry.
Whenever necessary to make an inspection to enforce any of the provisions of this article, or whenever the building official has reasonable cause to believe that there exists in any building or upon any premises any condition or code violation which makes such building, structure, premises, electrical, gas, mechanical or plumbing systems unsafe, dangerous or hazardous, the building official may enter such building, structure or premises at all reasonable times to inspect the such building, structure or premises or to perform any duty imposed upon the building official by this article, provided that if such building or premises is occupied, he shall first present proper credentials and request entry. If such building, structure, or premises is unoccupied, he shall first make a reasonable effort to locate the owner or other persons having charge or control of such and request entry. If entry is refused, the building official shall have recourse to every remedy provided by law to secure entry. When the building official shall have first obtained a proper inspection warrant or other remedy provided by law to secure entry, no owner or occupant or any other persons having charge, care or control of any building, structure, or premises shall fail or neglect, after proper request is made as provided in this section, to promptly permit entry by the building official for the purpose of inspection and examination pursuant to this article.
(Ord. of 3-3-1992, § 101.5)
Sec. 18-38. - Stop work orders.
Upon notice from the building official, work on any building, structure, electrical, gas, mechanical or plumbing system that is being done contrary to the provisions of this article or in a dangerous or unsafe manner, shall immediately cease. Such notice shall be in writing and shall be given to the owner of the property, or to his agent, or to the person doing the work, and shall state the conditions under which work may be resumed. Where an emergency exists, the building official shall not be required to give a written notice prior to stopping the work.
(Ord. of 3-3-1992, § 101.6)
Sec. 18-39. - Violations and penalties.
Any person who shall violate a provision of this article, or fail to comply therewith, or with any of the requirements thereof, or who shall erect, construct, alter, install, demolish or move any structure, electrical, gas, mechanical or plumbing system, or has erected, constructed, altered, repaired, moved or demolished a building, structure, electrical, gas, mechanical or plumbing system, in violation of a detailed statement or drawing submitted and permitted under this article shall be guilty of a misdemeanor. Each such person shall be considered guilty of a separate offense for each and every day or portion thereof during which any violation of any of the provisions of this article is committed or continued, and upon conviction of any such violation such person shall be punished within the limits and as provided by state laws.
(Ord. of 3-3-1992, § 102)
Secs. 18-40—18-70. - Reserved.
ARTICLE III. - PERMITS AND INSPECTIONS

Sec. 18-71. - Scope.
The inspection or permitting of any building, system or plan by any jurisdiction, under the requirements of this article, shall not be construed in any court as a warranty of the physical condition of such building, system or plan or their adequacy. No jurisdiction nor any employee thereof shall be liable in court for damages for any defect or hazardous or illegal condition or inadequacy in such building, system or plan, nor for any failure of any component of such, which may occur subsequent to such inspection or permitting.
(Ord. of 3-3-1992, § 101.2)
Sec. 18-72. - Permit application.
Any owner, authorized agent, or contractor who desires to construct, enlarge, alter, repair, move, demolish, or change the occupancy of a building or structure, or to erect, install, enlarge, alter, repair, remove, convert or replace any electrical, gas, mechanical or plumbing system, the installation of which is regulated by the technical codes, or to cause any such work to be done, shall first make application to the building official and obtain the required permit for the work.
(Ord. of 3-3-1992, 101.9)
Sec. 18-73. - Misrepresentation of application.
The building official may revoke a permit or approval, issued under the provisions of this article, in case there has been any false statement or misrepresentation as to the material fact in the application or plans on which the permit or approval was based.
(Ord. of 3-3-1992, § 101.7)
Sec. 18-74. - Prescribed fees.
A permit shall not be issued until the fees set forth in the schedule of fees and charges on file in the office of the county clerk have been paid. Nor shall an amendment to a permit be released until the additional fee, if any, due to an increase in the estimated cost of the building, structure, electrical, plumbing, mechanical or gas systems, has been paid.
(Ord. of 3-3-1992, § 103.1)
Sec. 18-75. - Accounting.
The building official shall keep a permanent and accurate accounting of all permit fees and other monies collected, the names of all persons upon whose account the permit fees and monies were paid, along with the date and amount thereof.
(Ord. of 3-3-1992, § 103.2)
Sec. 18-76. - Building permit valuations.
If, in the opinion of the building official, the valuation of the building, alteration, structure, electrical, gas, mechanical or plumbing systems appears to be underestimated on the application, permit shall be denied, unless the applicant can show detailed estimates to meet the approval of the building official. Permit valuations shall include total cost, such as electrical, gas, mechanical, plumbing equipment and other systems, including materials and labor.
(Ord. of 3-3-1992, § 103.3)
Sec. 18-77. - Required inspections.
(a)
The inspector will make inspections that he deems necessary. Typically these include but are not limited to:
(1)
Footing inspection: After ground work is completed and prior to placement of any concrete.
(2)
Framing inspection: After completion of rough-in stages of electrical, plumbing, mechanical, and framing and before any work is concealed.
(3)
Final inspection: To be made after the building is complete and ready for occupancy.
(b)
It shall be the responsibility of the permit holder to notify the inspector when the structure is ready for the required inspections.
(Ord. of 3-3-1992, § 103.4)
Sec. 18-78. - Revocation.
The building official may revoke a permit upon determination by the building official that the construction, erection, alteration, repair, moving, demolition, installation or replacement of the building, structure, electrical, gas, mechanical or plumbing systems for which the permit was issued is in violation of, or not in conformity with, the provisions of this article.
(Ord. of 3-3-1992, § 101.8)
Secs. 18-79—18-110. - Reserved.
ARTICLE IV. - FLOW-RATE RESTRICTIONS ON PLUMBING FIXTURES[3]

Footnotes:
--- (3) ---
State Law reference— Water efficiency requirements, O.C.G.A. § 8-2-1 et seq.; flow-rate restrictions on plumbing fixtures, O.C.G.A. § 8-2-3.

Sec. 18-111. - Purpose of article.
It is the purpose of this article to:
(1)
Require the use of ultra-low-flow plumbing fixtures in all new construction or when replacing plumbing fixtures during renovation or remodeling of existing buildings;
(2)
Require the certification of plumbing fixtures regarding flow rates and serviceability standards;
(3)
Promote compliance with state laws for the purpose of conserving water;
(4)
Maintain the integrity of drinking water supplies; and
(5)
Reduce wastewater flows.
Sec. 18-112. - Definitions.
The following words, terms and phrases, when used in this article, shall have the meanings ascribed to them in this section, except where the context clearly indicates a different meaning:
Commercial building means any type of building other than residential.
Construction means the erection of a new building or the alteration of an existing building in connection with its repair or renovation or in connection with making an addition to an existing building, and shall include the replacement of a malfunctioning, unserviceable or obsolete faucet, showerhead, toilet, or urinal in an existing building.
Plumbing fixture means any toilet, urinal, showerhead, bathroom, lavatory and kitchen faucet and replacement aerators.
Residential building means any building or unit of a building intended for occupancy as a dwelling but shall not include a hotel or motel.
Toilet means any fixture consisting of a water-flushed bowl with a seat, used for the disposal of human waste.
Urinal means any fixture consisting of a water-flushed bowl used for the disposal of human waste.
(Ord. of 1-8-1991, § 1)
Cross reference— Definitions generally, § 1-4.
Sec. 18-113. - Standards for fixtures.
No plumbing fixture shall be installed which does not meet the standards listed in this section or the state plumbing code, whichever is stricter. This includes all plumbing fixtures installed in newly constructed buildings or when replacing plumbing fixtures during remodeling or renovation of existing buildings, except as noted in section 18-115. The effective date of this requirement for residential buildings shall be April 1, 1992, and for commercial buildings the effective date shall be July 1, 1992.
(1)
All plumbing fixtures installed as referred to in this section shall not exceed the following maximum water use rates:
EXPAND
a. Toilets 1.6 gallons per flush
b. Urinals 1.0 gallon per flush
c. Showerheads 2.5 gallons per minute, at 60 psi gauge pressure
d. Kitchen faucets 2.5 gallons per minute
e. Bathroom and lavatory faucets 2.0 gallons per minute
  (2)
The flow restriction device in a showerhead must be a permanent and integral part of the showerhead and must not be removable to allow flow rates in excess of that stated in subsection (1) of this section.
(3)
Lavatory faucets located in restrooms intended for use by the general public shall be of the metering or self-closing type, in addition to the flow requirement listed in subsection (1) of this section.
(4)
The flow rates for all showerheads, and kitchen, bathroom and lavatory faucets shall be determined in accordance with ANSI/ASME A112.18.lM-1989 Plumbing Fixture Fittings, as amended; except that maximum flow rates may not exceed those given in subsection (1) of this section.
(5)
All toilets and urinals shall be certified to meet the hydraulic performance standards for low consumption water closets specified in ANSI/ASME A112.19.2-1990 Vitreous China Plumbing Fixtures, as amended, and ANSI/ASME A112.19.6-1990 Hydraulic Requirements for Water Closets and Urinals, as amended.
(Ord. of 1-8-1991, §§ 2, 3)
Sec. 18-114. - Product certification.
The manufacturer shall certify compliance with the standards in section 18-113 by labeling the fixture and packaging as described in this section and providing, upon request, appropriate certification by an independent national testing organization acceptable to the county building official. Effective April 1, 1992, all toilets, urinals, showerheads or faucets shall be clearly labeled to indicate the maximum flow rate or water usage of the fixture at the specified test pressure. Toilets and urinals shall additionally be labeled ASME A112.19.2M, as prescribed in section 8 of such standard. The label shall be affixed to the fixture and remain there until the proper building and/or plumbing inspections have been conducted. Also, the packaging must be clearly marked to identify water use rates when offered for retail.
(Ord. of 1-8-1991, § 4)
Sec. 18-115. - Exceptions.
Permission for the exceptions listed in this section must be obtained from the building official. New construction and the repair or renovation of an existing building may be exempt from the standards of section 18-113 for the following:
(1)
Showers and faucets installed for safety purposes, such as emergency eye wash stations, etc.
(2)
Plumbing fixtures specifically designed for the physically handicapped.
(3)
Fixtures specifically designed to withstand unusual abuse or for installation in a correctional institution which may require more water for proper operation.
(4)
Instances of building renovation where significant plumbing modifications would be required to accommodate the lower flows or for specialized purposes that cannot be accommodated by existing technology.
(Ord. of 1-8-1991, § 5)
Sec. 18-116. - Enforcement; penalty for violation of article.
Citations for violations of this article may be issued by the building official or his authorized representative. Any person violating this article shall be tried before the municipal court. Upon conviction, such person found guilty of a violation of this article shall be punished as provided in section 1-19.
(Ord. of 1-8-1991, § 6)
Secs. 18-117—18-150. - Reserved.
ARTICLE V. - RESERVED[4]

Footnotes:
--- (4) ---
Editor's note— At a council meeting held on April 2, 2013, art. V, consisting of §§ 18-151—18-161, and 18-181—18-191, pertaining to telecommunications antenna and tower standards was requested to be removed from the Code. The motion passed by unanimous vote of the board.

Secs. 18-151—18-225. - Reserved.
ARTICLE VI. - UNSAFE BUILDINGS

Sec. 18-226. - Title and scope.
(a)
Title. Provisions in the following chapters and sections shall constitute and be known and be cited as the Standard Unsafe Building Abatement Code, hereinafter referred to as "this code."
(b)
Code remedial. This code is hereby declared to be remedial, and shall be construed to secure the beneficial interests and purposes thereof which are public safety, health and general welfare through structural strength, stability, sanitation, adequate light and ventilation, and safety to life and property from fire and other hazards to the construction, alteration, repair, removal, demolition, use or occupancy of buildings, structures or premises.
(c)
Scope. The provisions of this code shall apply to all unsafe buildings or structures, as herein defined, and shall apply equally to new and existing conditions.
(d)
Special historic buildings and districts. The provisions of this code relating to the construction, alteration, repair, enlargement, restoration, or relocation of buildings or structures shall not be mandatory for existing buildings or structures listed on the National Register of Historic Places; or identified and classified by the State of Georgia or local jurisdiction as an historic building to be safe and in the public interest of health, safety and welfare regarding any proposed construction, alteration, repair, enlargement, restoration, or relocation of such buildings.
(Ord. No. 200509-1o, § 101, 9-6-2005; Ord. No. 200604-1o, § 101, 4-18-2006; Ord. No. 2009-06, 4-7-2009)
Sec. 18-227. - Power and duties of the enforcement officer.
(a)
Enforcement officer. The building official, a member of his staff to whom he may delegate such duty or some other person chosen by the board of commissioners of the county shall serve as building inspector. The county code enforcement officer shall be charged with the enforcement of this article.
(b)
Inspection of property that appears unsafe. Whenever the building inspector is advised that any building or structure is unsafe, he shall proceed to investigate and determine whether, on the basis of the facts disclosed, he finds that the building is in fact unsafe. The building inspector may enter such building at all reasonable times to inspect the same or to perform any duty imposed upon the building inspector by this Code, provided that if such building or premises is occupied, the building inspector shall first present proper credentials and request entry. If such building, structure or premises is unoccupied and not accessible, the building inspector shall first make a reasonable effort to locate the owner or other persons having charge or control of such and request entry. If entry is refused, the building inspector shall have recourse to every remedy provided by law to secure entry.
Any person who contacts the building inspector to report the existence of an unsafe building may give his or her name and address, and the location of the building referred to.
(c)
Definition of an unsafe building. Unsafe buildings are any buildings or structures that are vacant (except such structures as may have been originally constructed for human habitation and are currently being used for agricultural purposes* such as for the storage of agricultural products and supplies) and:
(1)
Whose interior or exterior bearing walls, or other vertical structural members list, lean, or buckle, to such extent as to weaken the structural support of such member or members below the minimum required to be accepted as safe by generally accepted standards, or
(2)
Which have parts which are so attached that they are likely to fall and injure persons or property, or
(3)
Which in whole or in part are so dilapidated, decayed, damaged from any cause, or deteriorated in any manner that they are likely to cause injury to persons or property, or
(4)
Which are likely to cause injury to persons or property because they contain weakened, defective or deteriorated:
a.
Footings or foundations.
b.
Floorings or floor supports.
c.
Ceilings or ceiling support.
d.
Roof or chimney, or
(5)
Those which have visible soil erosion adjacent to or under any structural support, or
(6)
Those which because of lack of proper maintenance, deterioration or decay, are fire hazards or are otherwise dangerous to human life, safety or health.
(d)
Declared nuisance. Any building determined to be an unsafe building under this article is hereby declared to be a public nuisance.
(e)
Notice to repair, demolish.
(1)
After the building inspector has performed an inspection, a written report shall be provided to the enforcement officer. If the building inspector finds that the building is unsafe, as defined herein, then the enforcement officer shall notify the owner of that finding, and of the possible penalties for violating this code.
(2)
The notice to be given to the owner shall be in writing and shall be sent to the owner by registered or certified mail, return receipt requested, the notice being addressed to the address of the owner as reflected upon the tax records of the county. If the name or whereabouts, either or both, of the owner are unknown, the building inspector shall cause a notice to be posted upon the premises for a period of 45 days, and this shall serve as legal notice to said owner.
(Ord. No. 200509-1o, § 102, 9-6-2005; Ord. No. 200604-1o, § 102, 4-18-2006; Ord. No. 2009-06, 4-7-2009)
* To qualify for "agricultural purposes" as used herein above, the building or structure in question must sit on a tract or parcel of land consisting of a minimum of five (5) acres.
Sec. 18-228. - Determination of violation.
(a)
If after 45 days from receipt of the notice (refusal to accept delivery being tantamount to receipt) or from the first day of posting the notice, as the case may be, the owner of the property shall fail or refuse to respond to the notice from the enforcement officer, then the owner shall be deemed in violation, and the building demolished as provided herein.
(b)
If the owner responds to the enforcement officer's notice within the time provided, and expresses an intention to correct the dangerous condition, then the owner shall be given 90 days from such response to make any such corrections. If at the end of 90 days the corrections have not been completed, the enforcement officer may, in his or her discretion, grant a reasonable extension to complete the same. Such extension shall not be granted unless the enforcement officer finds that the owner is proceeding reasonably and in good faith, and that substantial progress is being made.
(Ord. No. 200509-1o, § 103, 9-6-2005; Ord. No. 200604-1o, § 103, 4-18-2006; Ord. No. 2009-06, 4-7-2009)
Sec. 18-229. - Right of appeal.
(a)
Appellate procedure. Any person receiving written notice from the enforcement officer of deficiencies in their property under this code may enter an appeal in writing to the board of appeals and adjustments. Appeals shall be filed with the enforcement officer within 45 days of the date of the notice, and must be accompanied by an appellate review fee of $100.00. Appeals shall state the location of the property, the date of the notice of violations, and the nature of such violation cited. The appellant must state the variance or modification requested, the reasons therefore, and the hardship or conditions upon which the appeal is made.
(b)
Appeals limited. No appeal shall be considered where an appeal has been previously decided involving the same violations at the same premises.
(c)
Board of appeals and adjustments. The board of appeals and adjustments shall consist of five members to be selected by the Jones County Board of Commissioners.
(d)
Secretary of the board. The enforcement officer shall act as secretary for the board of appeals and adjustments and shall make a detailed record of all of its proceedings. Such records shall set forth the reasons for decisions by the board, the vote of each member, the absence of a member, and any failure of a member to vote.
(e)
Quorum and voting. Three members of the board of appeals and adjustments shall constitute a quorum. In varying any provision of this code, or in modifying any ruling of the enforcement officer, the majority vote of the members present shall prevail.
(f)
Powers. The board of appeals and adjustments shall have the power, as further defined in this code, to hear appeals of decisions, interpretations, and rulings of the enforcement officer; to consider alternate materials and methods to meet the intent of this code; and to consider variances of provisions of this code.
(g)
Decisions of the board. The board of appeals and adjustments shall, in every case, reach a decision without unreasonable or unnecessary delay. Each decision of the board shall also include the reasons for the decision. If a decision of the board reverses or modifies a refusal, order, or disallowance of the enforcement officer or varies the application of any provision of the Code, the enforcement officer shall immediately take action in accordance with such decision. Every decision shall be promptly filed in writing in the office of the enforcement officer and shall be open to public inspection. A certified copy of the decision shall be sent by mail or otherwise to the appellant and a copy shall be kept on record in the office of the enforcement officer. Every decision of the board is final.
(Ord. No. 200509-1o, § 104, 9-6-2005; Ord. No. 200604-1o, § 104, 4-18-2006; Ord. No. 2009-06, 4-7-2009)
Sec. 18-230. - Implementation.
(a)
Order to repair or demolish. If the board of appeals and adjustments, on the basis of a hearing, determines that the building is unsafe and is a public nuisance, or if there is no appeal of the building inspector's determination and report, an order shall be served by the enforcement officer upon the owner if a resident of the county, requiring the owner, within a reasonable time specified therein not exceeding 60 days, to demolish the structure. If the owner shall be a nonresident of the county or if the name or address, either or both, are unknown, a copy of the order shall be posted upon the unsafe building, and mailed to the owner's last known address, if any exists on the public records.
(b)
Enforcement of order, lien.
(1)
If the owner shall fail to repair or demolish the unsafe building as required by this code, the enforcement officer is authorized to cause such unsafe building to be demolished.
(2)
Upon completion of demolition, the enforcement officer shall advise the owner by registered or certified mail, return receipt requested, if his name and address is shown upon the tax records of the county or otherwise known, the cost of such demolition and the owner shall have 30 days from the mailing of such notice within which to pay the cost. If the name of the owner or his address, either or both, are unknown, the enforcement officer shall cause a like notice to be posted upon the property and the owner shall have 30 days from the date of posting in which to pay the costs of demolition.
(3)
If the owner shall fail to pay the costs within the time allowed, the enforcement officer shall notify the tax commissioner of the county who shall thereupon issue an execution for the costs of demolition plus the costs of recording the execution, which execution shall be recorded in the general execution docket of the office of the clerk of the superior court of the county.
(4)
Executions shall bear such interest, have such priority and lien, and shall be enforceable in all respects as are executions issued for ad valorem taxes due the county.
(5)
Any monies received from the sale of property or from the demolition shall be paid to the owner of record or other persons lawfully entitled thereto, minus the costs of demolition or repair and any other costs directly incurred by the county.
(Ord. No. 200509-1o, § 105, 9-6-2005; Ord. No. 200604-1o, § 105, 4-18-2006; Ord. No. 2009-06, 4-7-2009)
Secs. 18-231—18-250. - Reserved.
ARTICLE VII. - STORMWATER MANAGEMENT[5]
Footnotes:
--- (5) ---
Editor's note— Ord. No. 200612-1o, §§ 1—7, adopted Dec. 5, 2006, amended Art. VII in its entirety, in effect deleting the former Art. VII as being superseded by said provisions. These provisions have been included as Art. VII to read as set out herein. Former Art. VII pertained to similar subject matter and derived from Ord. No. 200603-1o, §§ 1—7, adopted Mar. 7, 2006.

DIVISION 1. - GENERALLY

Sec. 18-251. - Purpose and intent.
The purpose of this article is to protect, maintain and enhance the public health, safety, environment and general welfare by establishing minimum requirements and procedures to control the adverse effects of increased post-development stormwater runoff and nonpoint source pollution associated with new development and redevelopment. It has been determined that proper management of post-development stormwater runoff will minimize damage to public and private property and infrastructure, safeguard the public health, safety, environment and general welfare of the public, and protect water and aquatic resources. This seeks to meet that purpose through the following objectives:
(1)
Establish decision-making processes surrounding land development activities that protect the integrity of the watershed and preserve the health of water resources;
(2)
Require that new development and redevelopment maintain the pre-development hydrologic response in their post-development state as nearly as practicable in order to reduce flooding, streambank erosion, nonpoint source pollution and increases in stream temperature, and maintain the integrity of stream channels and aquatic habitats;
(3)
Establish minimum post-development stormwater management standards and design criteria for the regulation and control of stormwater runoff quantity and quality;
(4)
Establish design and application criteria for the construction and use of structural stormwater control facilities that can be used to meet the minimum post-development stormwater management standards;
(5)
Encourage the use of nonstructural stormwater management and stormwater better site design practices, such as the preservation of greenspace and other conservation areas, to the maximum extent practicable. Coordinate site design plans, which include greenspace, with the county's greenspace protection plan;
(6)
Establish provisions for the long-term responsibility for and maintenance of structural stormwater control facilities and nonstructural stormwater management practices to ensure that they continue to function as designed, are maintained, and pose no threat to public safety; and,
(7)
Establish administrative procedures for the submission, review, approval and disapproval of stormwater management plans, and for the inspection of approved active projects, and long-term follow up.
(Ord. No. 200612-1o, § 1.1, 12-5-2006)
Sec. 18-252. - Applicability.
(a)
This article shall be applicable to all land development within the MS4 area of Jones County, including, but not limited to, site plan applications, subdivision applications, and grading applications, unless exempt pursuant to subsection (b) below. These standards apply to any new development or redevelopment site that meets one or more of the following criteria:
(1)
New development that involves the creation of 5,000 square feet or more of impervious cover, or that involves other land development activities of one acre or more;
(2)
Redevelopment that includes the creation, addition or replacement of 5,000 square feet or more of impervious cover, or that involves other land development activity of one acre or more;
(3)
Any new development or redevelopment, regardless of size, that is defined by the zoning director to be a hotspot land use; or,
(4)
Land development activities that are smaller than the minimum applicability criteria set forth in items (1) and (2) above if such activities are part of a larger common plan of development, even though multiple, separate and distinct land development activities may take place at different times on different schedules.
(b)
The following activities are exempt from this article:
(1)
Individual single-family or duplex residential lots that are not part of a subdivision or phased development project;
(2)
Additions or modifications to existing single-family or duplex residential structures;
(3)
Agricultural or silvicultural land management activities within areas zoned for these activities;
(4)
Repairs to any stormwater management facility or practice deemed necessary by the zoning director; and,
(5)
Any project outside of the MS4 area of Jones County.
(Ord. No. 200612-1o, § 1.2, 12-5-2006)
Sec. 18-253. - Designation of article administrator.
The zoning director or any county employee designated by the zoning director is hereby appointed to administer and implement the provisions of this article.
(Ord. No. 200612-1o, § 1.3, 12-5-2006)
Sec. 18-254. - Compatibility with other regulations.
This article is not intended to modify or repeal any other ordinance, rule, regulation or other provision of law. The requirements of this article are in addition to the requirements of any other ordinance, rule, regulation or other provision of law, and where any provision of this article imposes restrictions different from those imposed by any other ordinance, rule, regulation or other provision of law, whichever provision is more restrictive or imposes higher protective standards for human health or the environment shall control.
(Ord. No. 200612-1o, § 1.4, 12-5-2006)
Sec. 18-255. - Severability.
If the provisions of any section, subsection, paragraph, subdivision or clause of this article shall be adjudged invalid by a court of competent jurisdiction, such judgment shall not affect or invalidate the remainder of any section, subsection, paragraph, subdivision or clause of this article.
(Ord. No. 200612-1o, § 1.5, 12-5-2006)
Sec. 18-256. - Stormwater design manual.
The zoning director or any county employee designated by the zoning director will utilize the policy, criteria and information including technical specifications and standards in the latest edition of the Georgia Stormwater Management Manual and any relevant local addenda for the proper implementation of the requirements of this article. The manual may be updated and expanded periodically, based on improvements in science, engineering, monitoring and local maintenance experience.
(Ord. No. 200612-1o, § 1.6, 12-5-2006)
Sec. 18-257. - Definitions.
Applicant means a person submitting a post-development stormwater management application and plan for approval.
Channel means a natural or artificial watercourse with a definite bed and banks that conducts continuously or periodically flowing water.
Conservation easement means an agreement between a land owner and Jones County or other government agency or land trust that permanently protects open space or greenspace on the owner's land by limiting the amount and type of development that can take place, but continues to leave the remainder of the fee interest in private ownership.
Detention means the temporary storage of stormwater runoff in a stormwater management facility for the purpose of controlling the peak discharge.
Detention facility means a detention basin or structure designed for the detention of stormwater runoff and gradual release of stored water at controlled rates.
Developer means a person who undertakes land development activities.
Development means a land development or land development project.
Drainage easement means an easement appurtenant or attached to a tract or parcel of land allowing the owner of adjacent tracts or other persons to discharge stormwater runoff onto the tract or parcel of land subject to the drainage easement.
Erosion and sedimentation control plan means a plan that is designed to minimize the accelerated erosion and sediment runoff at a site during land disturbance activities.
Extended detention means the detention of stormwater runoff for an extended period, typically 24 hours or greater.
Extreme flood protection means measures taken to prevent adverse impacts from large low-frequency storm events with a return frequency of 100 years or more.
Flooding means a volume of surface water that is too great to be confined within the banks or walls of a conveyance or stream channel and that overflows onto adjacent lands.
Greenspace or open space means permanently protected areas of the site that are preserved in a natural state.
Hotspot means an area where the use of the land has the potential to generate highly contaminated runoff, with concentrations of pollutants in excess of those typically found in stormwater.
Hydrologic soil group (HSG) means a natural resource conservation service classification system in which soils are categorized into four runoff potential groups. The groups range from group A soils, with high permeability and little runoff produced, to group D soils, which have low permeability rates and produce much more runoff.
Impervious cover means a surface composed of any material that significantly impedes or prevents the natural infiltration of water into soil. Impervious surfaces include, but are not limited to, rooftops, buildings, streets and roads, and any concrete or asphalt surface.
Industrial stormwater permit means a national pollutant discharge elimination system (NPDES) permit issued to an industry or group of industries which regulates the pollutant levels associated with industrial stormwater discharges or specifies on-site pollution control strategies.
Infiltration means the process of percolating stormwater runoff into the subsoil.
Jurisdictional wetland means an area that is inundated or saturated by surface water or groundwater at a frequency and duration sufficient to support a prevalence of vegetation typically adapted for life in saturated soil conditions, commonly known as hydrophytic vegetation.
Land development means any land change, including, but not limited to, clearing, digging, grubbing, stripping, removal of vegetation, dredging, grading, excavating, transporting and filling of land, construction, paving, and any other installation of impervious cover.
Land development activities means those actions or activities which comprise, facilitate or result in land development.
Land development project means a discrete land development undertaking.
Inspection and maintenance agreement means a written agreement providing for the long-term inspection and maintenance of stormwater management facilities and practices on a site or with respect to a land development project, which when properly recorded in the deed records constitutes a restriction on the title to a site or other land involved in a land development project.
New development means a land development activity on a previously undeveloped site.
Nonpoint source pollution means a form of water pollution that does not originate from a discrete point such as a sewage treatment plant or industrial discharge, but involves the transport of pollutants such as sediment, fertilizers, pesticides, heavy metals, oil, grease, bacteria, organic materials and other contaminants from land to surface water and groundwater via mechanisms such as precipitation, stormwater runoff, and leaching. Nonpoint source pollution is a by-product of land use practices such as agricultural, silvicultural, mining, construction, subsurface disposal and urban runoff sources.
Nonstructural stormwater management practice or nonstructural practice means any natural or planted vegetation or other nonstructural component of the stormwater management plan that provides for or enhances stormwater quantity and/or quality control or other stormwater management benefits, and includes, but is not limited to, riparian buffers, open and greenspace areas, overland flow filtration areas, natural depressions, and vegetated channels.
Off-site facility means a stormwater management facility located outside the boundaries of the site.
On-site facility means a stormwater management facility located within the boundaries of the site.
Overbank flood protection means measures taken to prevent an increase in the frequency and magnitude of out-of-bank flooding (i.e. flow events that exceed the capacity of the channel and enter the floodplain), and that are intended to protect downstream properties from flooding for the two-year through 25-year frequency storm events.
Owner means the legal or beneficial owner of a site, including but not limited to, a mortgagee or vendee in possession, receiver, executor, trustee, lessee or other person, firm or corporation in control of the site.
Permit means the permit issued by Jones County to the applicant which is required for undertaking any land development activity.
Person means, except to the extent exempted from this article, any individual, partnership, firm, association, joint venture, public or private corporation, trust, estate, commission, board, public or private institution, utility, cooperative, city, county or other political subdivision of the State, any interstate body or any other legal entity.
Post-development refers to the time period, or the conditions that may reasonably be expected or anticipated to exist, after completion of the land development activity on a site as the context may require.
Pre-development refers to the time period, or the conditions that exist, on a site prior to the commencement of a land development project and at the time that plans for the land development of a site are approved by the plan approving authority. Where phased development or plan approval occurs (preliminary grading, roads and utilities, etc.), the existing conditions at the time prior to the first item being approved or permitted shall establish pre-development conditions.
Project means a land development project.
Redevelopment means a land development project on a previously developed site, but excludes ordinary maintenance activities, remodeling of existing buildings, resurfacing of paved areas, and exterior changes or improvements which do not materially increase or concentrate stormwater runoff, or cause additional nonpoint source pollution.
Regional stormwater management facility or regional facility means stormwater management facilities designed to control stormwater runoff from multiple properties, where the owners or developers of the individual properties may assist in the financing of the facility, and the requirement for on-site controls is either eliminated or reduced.
Runoff means stormwater runoff.
Site means the parcel of land being developed, or the portion thereof on which the land development project is located.
Stormwater better site design means nonstructural site design approaches and techniques that can reduce a site's impact on the watershed and can provide for nonstructural stormwater management. Stormwater better site design includes conserving and protecting natural areas and greenspace, reducing impervious cover and using natural features for stormwater management.
Stormwater management means the collection, conveyance, storage, treatment and disposal of stormwater runoff in a manner intended to prevent increased flood damage, streambank channel erosion, habitat degradation and water quality degradation, and to enhance and promote the public health, safety and general welfare.
Stormwater management facility means any infrastructure that controls or conveys stormwater runoff.
Stormwater management measure means any stormwater management facility or nonstructural stormwater practice.
Stormwater management plan means a document describing how existing runoff characteristics will be affected by a land development project and containing measures for complying with the provisions of this article.
Stormwater management system means the entire set of structural and nonstructural stormwater management facilities and practices that are used to capture, convey and control the quantity and quality of the stormwater runoff from a site.
Stormwater retrofit means a stormwater management practice designed for a currently developed site that previously had either no stormwater management practice in place or a practice inadequate to meet the stormwater management requirements of the site.
Stormwater runoff means the flow of surface water resulting from precipitation.
Structural stormwater control means a structural stormwater management facility or device that controls stormwater runoff and changes the characteristics of that runoff including, but not limited to, the quantity and quality, the period of release or the velocity of flow of such runoff.
Subdivision means the division of a tract or parcel of land resulting in one or more new lots or building sites for the purpose, whether immediately or in the future, of sale, other transfer of ownership or land development, and includes divisions of land resulting from or made in connection with the layout or development of a new street or roadway or a change in an existing street or roadway.
(Ord. No. 200612-1o, § 2, 12-5-2006)
Secs. 18-258—18-270. - Reserved.
DIVISION 2. - PERMIT PROCEDURES AND REQUIREMENTS

Sec. 18-271. - Permit application requirements.
No owner or developer shall perform any land development activities without first meeting the requirements of this article prior to commencing the proposed activity.
Unless specifically exempted by this article, any owner or developer proposing a land development activity shall submit to Jones County a permit application on a form provided by Jones County for that purpose.
Unless otherwise exempted by this article, a permit application shall be accompanied by the following items in order to be considered:
Stormwater concept plan and consultation meeting certification in accordance with section 18-272;
Stormwater management plan in accordance with section 18-273;
Inspection and maintenance agreement in accordance with section 18-274, if applicable;
Performance bond in accordance with section 18-275, if applicable; and,
Permit application and plan review fees in accordance with section 18-276.
(Ord. No. 200612-1o, § 3.1, 12-5-2006)
Sec. 18-272. - Stormwater concept plan and consultation meeting.
Before any stormwater management permit application is submitted, it is recommended that the land owner or developer meet with the zoning director for a consultation meeting on a concept plan for the post-development stormwater management system to be utilized in the proposed land development project. This consultation meeting should take place at the time of the preliminary plan of subdivision or other early step in the development process. The purpose of this meeting is to discuss the post-development stormwater management measures necessary for the proposed project, as well as to discuss and assess constraints, opportunities and potential ideas for stormwater management designs before the formal site design engineering is commenced.
To accomplish this goal the following information should [shall] be included in the concept plan which should [shall] be submitted in advance of the meeting:
(1)
Existing conditions/proposed site plans. Existing conditions and proposed site layout sketch plans, which illustrate at a minimum: existing and proposed topography; perennial and intermittent streams; mapping of predominant soils from soil surveys (when available); boundaries of existing predominant vegetation and proposed limits of clearing and grading; and location of existing and proposed roads, buildings, parking areas and other impervious surfaces.
(2)
Natural resources inventory. A written or graphic inventory of the natural resources at the site and surrounding area as it exists prior to the commencement of the project. This description should include a discussion of soil conditions, forest cover, topography, wetlands, and other native vegetative areas on the site, as well as the location and boundaries of other natural feature protection and conservation areas such as wetlands, lakes, ponds, floodplains, stream buffers and other setbacks (e.g., drinking water well setbacks, septic setbacks, etc.). Particular attention should be paid to environmentally sensitive features that provide particular opportunities or constraints for development.
(3)
Stormwater management system concept plan. A written or graphic concept plan of the proposed post-development stormwater management system including: preliminary selection and location of proposed structural stormwater controls; location of existing and proposed conveyance systems such as grass channels, swales, and storm drains; flow paths; location of floodplain/floodway limits; relationship of site to upstream and downstream properties and drainages; and preliminary location of proposed stream channel modifications, such as bridge or culvert crossings.
(4)
Potential water quality impact considerations. A site plan that addresses potential water quality impacts of the proposed project will be included.
Local watershed plans, Jones County greenspace projection plan (if applicable), and any relevant resource protection plans will be consulted in the discussion of the concept plan.
(Ord. No. 200612-1o, § 3.2, 12-5-2006)
Sec. 18-273. - Stormwater management plan requirements.
The stormwater management plan shall detail how post-development stormwater runoff will be controlled or managed and how the proposed project will meet the requirements of this article, including the performance criteria set forth in division 3 below.
This plan shall be in accordance with the criteria established in this section and must be submitted with the stamp and signature of a professional engineer (PE) licensed in the State of Georgia, who must verify that the design of all stormwater management facilities and practices meet the submittal requirements outlined in the submittal checklist(s) found in the stormwater design manual.
The stormwater management plan must ensure that the requirements and criteria in this article are being complied with and that opportunities are being taken to minimize adverse post-development stormwater runoff impacts from the development. The plan shall consist of maps, narrative, and supporting design calculations (hydrologic and hydraulic) for the proposed stormwater management system. The plan shall include all of the information required in the stormwater management site plan checklist found in the stormwater design manual. This includes:
(1)
Common address and legal description of site;
(2)
Vicinity map;
(3)
Existing conditions hydrologic analysis. The existing condition hydrologic analysis for stormwater runoff rates, volumes, and velocities, which shall include: a topographic map of existing site conditions with the drainage basin boundaries indicated; acreage, soil types and land cover of areas for each subbasin affected by the project; all perennial and intermittent streams and other surface water features; all existing stormwater conveyances and structural control facilities; direction of flow and exits from the site; analysis of runoff provided by off-site areas upstream of the project site; and methodologies, assumptions, site parameters and supporting design calculations used in analyzing the existing conditions site hydrology. For redevelopment sites, predevelopment conditions shall be modeled using the established guidelines for the portion of the site undergoing land development activities.
(4)
Post-development hydrologic analysis. The post-development hydrologic analysis for stormwater runoff rates, volumes, and velocities, which shall include: a topographic map of developed site conditions with the post-development drainage basin boundaries indicated; total area of post-development impervious surfaces and other land cover areas for each subbasin affected by the project; calculations for determining the runoff volumes that need to be addressed for each subbasin for the development project to meet the post-development stormwater management performance criteria in division 3; location and boundaries of proposed natural feature protection and conservation areas; documentation and calculations for any applicable site design credits that are being utilized; methodologies, assumptions, site parameters and supporting design calculations used in analyzing the existing conditions site hydrology. If the land development activity on a redevelopment site constitutes more than 50 percent of the site area for the entire site, then the performance criteria in division 3 must be met for the stormwater runoff from the entire site.
(5)
Stormwater management system. The description, scaled drawings and design calculations for the proposed post-development stormwater management system, which shall include: A map and/or drawing or sketch of the stormwater management facilities, including the location of nonstructural site design features and the placement of existing and proposed structural stormwater controls, including design water surface elevations, storage volumes available from zero to maximum head, location of inlet and outlets, location of bypass and discharge systems, and all orifice/restrictor sizes; a narrative describing how the selected structural stormwater controls will be appropriate and effective; cross-section and profile drawings and design details for each of the structural stormwater controls in the system, including supporting calculations to show that the facility is designed according to the applicable design criteria; a hydrologic and hydraulic analysis of the stormwater management system for all applicable design storms (including stage-storage or outlet rating curves, and inflow and outflow hydrographs); documentation and supporting calculations to show that the stormwater management system adequately meets the post-development stormwater management performance criteria in division 3; drawings, design calculations, elevations and hydraulic grade lines for all existing and proposed stormwater conveyance elements including stormwater drains, pipes, culverts, catch basins, channels, swales and areas of overland flow; and where applicable, a narrative describing how the stormwater management system corresponds with any watershed protection plans and/or local greenspace protection plan.
(6)
Post-development downstream analysis. A downstream peak flow analysis which includes the assumptions, results and supporting calculations to show safe passage of post-development design flows downstream. The analysis of downstream conditions in the report shall address each and every point or area along the project site's boundaries at which runoff will exit the property. The analysis shall focus on the portion of the drainage channel or watercourse immediately downstream from the project. This area shall extend downstream from the project to a point in the drainage basin where the project area is ten percent of the total basin area. In calculating runoff volumes and discharge rates, consideration may need to be given to any planned future upstream land use changes. The analysis shall be in accordance with the stormwater design manual.
(7)
Construction-phase erosion and sedimentation control plan. An erosion and sedimentation control plan in accordance with the Georgia Erosion and Sedimentation Control Act (or reference to the local erosion and sedimentation control ordinance) or NPDES permit for construction activities. The plan shall also include information on the sequence/phasing of construction and temporary stabilization measures and temporary structures that will be converted into permanent stormwater controls.
(8)
Landscaping and open space plan. A detailed landscaping and vegetation plan describing the woody and herbaceous vegetation that will be used within and adjacent to stormwater management facilities and practices. The landscaping plan must also include: the arrangement of planted areas, natural and greenspace areas and other landscaped features on the site plan; information necessary to construct the landscaping elements shown on the plan drawings; descriptions and standards for the methods, materials and vegetation that are to be used in the construction; density of plantings; descriptions of the stabilization and management techniques used to establish vegetation; and a description of who will be responsible for ongoing maintenance of vegetation for the stormwater management facility and what practices will be employed to ensure that adequate vegetative cover is preserved.
(9)
Operations and maintenance plan. Detailed description of ongoing operations and maintenance procedures for stormwater management facilities and practices to ensure their continued function as designed and constructed or preserved. These plans will identify the parts or components of a stormwater management facility or practice that need to be regularly or periodically inspected and maintained, and the equipment and skills or training necessary. The plan shall include an inspection and maintenance schedule, maintenance tasks, responsible parties for maintenance, funding, access and safety issues. Provisions for the periodic review and evaluation of the effectiveness of the maintenance program and the need for revisions or additional maintenance procedures shall be included in the plan.
(10)
Maintenance access easements. The applicant must ensure access from public right-of-way to stormwater management facilities and practices requiring regular maintenance at the site for the purpose of inspection and repair by securing all the maintenance access easements needed on a permanent basis. Such access shall be sufficient for all necessary equipment for maintenance activities. Upon final inspection and approval, a plat or document indicating that such easements exist shall be recorded and shall remain in effect even with the transfer of title of the property.
(11)
Inspection and maintenance agreements. Unless an on-site stormwater management facility or practice is dedicated to and accepted by Jones County as provided in section 18-274 below, the applicant must execute an easement and an inspection and maintenance agreement binding on all subsequent owners of land served by an on-site stormwater management facility or practice in accordance section 18-274.
(12)
Evidence of acquisition of applicable local and non-local permits. The applicant shall certify and provide documentation to the zoning director that all other applicable environmental permits have been acquired for the site prior to approval of the stormwater management plan.
(13)
Pollution control plan. All projects not exempted by this article must comply with the national pollutant discharge elimination system (NPDES) permit for construction activities (General Permit No. GAR 100000). A copy of the pollution control plan that has been developed to comply with the NPDES program shall be required.
(Ord. No. 200612-1o, § 3.3, 12-5-2006)
Sec. 18-274. - Stormwater management inspection and maintenance agreements.
Prior to the issuance of any permit for a land development activity requiring a stormwater management facility or practice hereunder and for which Jones County requires ongoing maintenance, the applicant or owner of the site must, unless an on-site stormwater management facility or practice is dedicated to and accepted by Jones County, execute an inspection and maintenance agreement, and/or a conservation easement, if applicable, that shall be binding on all subsequent owners of the site.
The inspection and maintenance agreement, if applicable, must be approved by the zoning director prior to plan approval, and recorded in the deed records upon final plat approval.
The inspection and maintenance agreement shall identify by name or official title the person(s) responsible for carrying out the inspection and maintenance. Responsibility for the operation and maintenance of the stormwater management facility or practice, unless assumed by a governmental agency, shall remain with the property owner and shall pass to any successor owner. If portions of the land are sold or otherwise transferred, legally binding arrangements shall be made to pass the inspection and maintenance responsibility to the appropriate successors in title. These arrangements shall designate for each portion of the site, the person to be permanently responsible for its inspection and maintenance.
As part of the inspection and maintenance agreement, a schedule shall be developed for when and how often routine inspection and maintenance will occur to ensure proper function of the stormwater management facility or practice. The agreement shall also include plans for annual inspections to ensure proper performance of the facility between scheduled maintenance and shall also includeremedies for the default thereof.
In addition to enforcing the terms of the inspection and maintenance agreement, the zoning director or any county employee designated by the zoning director may also enforce all of the provisions for ongoing inspection and maintenance in division 5 of this article.
Jones County, in lieu of an inspection and maintenance agreement, may accept dedication of any existing or future stormwater management facility for maintenance, provided such facility meets all the requirements of this article and includes adequate and perpetual access and sufficient area, by easement or otherwise, for inspection and regular maintenance.
(Ord. No. 200612-1o, § 3.4, 12-5-2006)
Sec. 18-275. - Performance and maintenance bonds.
(a)
Application procedure.
(1)
Applications for land development permits shall be filed with the zoning director.
(2)
Permit applications shall include the items set forth in section 18-271 above (two copies of the stormwater management plan and the inspection maintenance agreement, if applicable, shall be included).
(3)
The zoning director shall inform the applicant whether the application, stormwater management plan and inspection and maintenance agreement are approved or disapproved.
(4)
If either the permit application, stormwater management plan or inspection and maintenance agreement are disapproved, the zoning director shall notify the applicant of such fact in writing. The applicant may then revise any item not meeting the requirements hereof and resubmit the same, in which event subsection (3) above and this subsection shall apply to such resubmittal.
(5)
Upon a finding by the zoning director that the permit application, stormwater management plan and inspection and maintenance agreement, if applicable, meet the requirements of this article, the zoning director may issue a permit for the land development project, provided all other legal requirements for the issuance of such permit have been met.
(6)
Notwithstanding the issuance of the permit, in conducting the land development project, the applicant or other responsible person shall be subject to the following requirements:
a.
The applicant shall comply with all applicable requirements of the approved plan and this article and shall certify that all land clearing, construction, land development and drainage will be done according to the approved plan;
b.
The land development project shall be conducted only within the area specified in the approved plan;
c.
The zoning director or any county employee designated by the zoning director shall be allowed to conduct periodic inspections of the project;
d.
No changes may be made to an approved plan without review and written approval by the zoning director; and,
e.
Upon completion of the project, the applicant or other responsible person shall submit the engineer's report and certificate and as-built plans required by section 18-312.
(b)
Application review fees. The fee for review of any stormwater management application shall be based on the fee structure established by Jones County and shall be made prior to the issuance of any building permit for the development.
(c)
Modifications for off-site facilities. The stormwater management plan for each land development project shall provide for stormwater management measures located on the site of the project, unless provisions are made to manage stormwater by an off-site or regional facility. The off-site or regional facility must be located on property legally dedicated for the purpose, must be designed and adequately sized to provide a level of stormwater quantity and quality control that is equal to or greater than that which would be afforded by on-site practices and there must be a legally-obligated entity responsible for long-term operation and maintenance of the off-site or regional stormwater facility. In addition, on-site measures shall be implemented, where necessary, to protect upstream and downstream properties and drainage channels from the site to the off-site facility.
A stormwater management plan must be submitted to the zoning director which shows the adequacy of the off-site or regional facility.
To be eligible for a modification, the applicant must demonstrate to the satisfaction of the zoning director that the use of an off-site or regional facility will not result in the following impacts to upstream or downstream areas:
(1)
Increased threat of flood damage to public health, life, and property;
(2)
Deterioration of existing culverts, bridges, dams, and other structures;
(3)
Accelerated streambank or streambed erosion or siltation;
(4)
Degradation of in-stream biological functions or habitat; or
(5)
Water quality impairment in violation of state water quality standards, and/or violation of any state or federal regulations.
(Ord. No. 200612-1o, § 3.5, 12-5-2006)
Sec. 18-276. - Application procedure.
(a)
Applications for land development permits shall be filed with the zoning director.
(b)
Permit applications shall include the items set forth in section 18-271 above (two copies of the stormwater management plan and the inspection maintenance agreement, if applicable, shall be included).
(c)
The zoning director shall inform the applicant whether the application, stormwater management plan and inspection and maintenance agreement are approved or disapproved.
(d)
If either the permit application, stormwater management plan or inspection and maintenance agreement are disapproved, the zoning director shall notify the applicant of such fact in writing. The applicant may then revise any item not meeting the requirements hereof and resubmit the same, in which event subsection (c) above and this subsection shall apply to such resubmittal.
(e)
Upon a finding by the zoning director that the permit application, stormwater management plan and inspection and maintenance agreement, if applicable, meet the requirements of this article, the zoning director may issue a permit for the land development project, provided all other legal requirements for the issuance of such permit have been met.
(f)
Notwithstanding the issuance of the permit, in conducting the land development project, the applicant or other responsible person shall be subject to the following requirements:
(1)
The applicant shall comply with all applicable requirements of the approved plan and this article and shall certify that all land clearing, construction, land development and drainage will be done according to the approved plan;
(2)
The land development project shall be conducted only within the area specified in the approved plan;
(3)
The zoning director or any county employee designated by the zoning director shall be allowed to conduct periodic inspections of the project;
(4)
No changes may be made to an approved plan without review and written approval by the zoning director; and,
(5)
Upon completion of the project, the applicant or other responsible person shall submit the engineer's report and certificate and as-built plans required by section 18-312.
(Ord. No. 200612-1o, § 3.6, 12-5-2006)
Sec. 18-277. - Application review fees.
The fee for review of any stormwater management application shall be based on the fee structure established by Jones County and shall be made prior to the issuance of any building permit for the development.
(Ord. No. 200612-1o, § 3.7, 12-5-2006)
Sec. 18-278. - Modifications for off-site facilities.
The stormwater management plan for each land development project shall provide for stormwater management measures located on the site of the project, unless provisions are made to manage stormwater by an off-site or regional facility. The off-site or regional facility must be located on property legally dedicated for the purpose, must be designed and adequately sized to provide a level of stormwater quantity and quality control that is equal to or greater than that which would be afforded by on-site practices and there must be a legally-obligated entity responsible for long-term operation and maintenance of the off-site or regional stormwater facility. In addition, on-site measures shall be implemented, where necessary, to protect upstream and downstream properties and drainage channels from the site to the off-site facility.
A stormwater management plan must be submitted to the zoning director which shows the adequacy of the off-site or regional facility.
To be eligible for a modification, the applicant must demonstrate to the satisfaction of the zoning director that the use of an off-site or regional facility will not result in the following impacts to upstream or downstream areas:
(1)
Increased threat of flood damage to public health, life, and property;
(2)
Deterioration of existing culverts, bridges, dams, and other structures;
(3)
Accelerated streambank or streambed erosion or siltation;
(4)
Degradation of in-stream biological functions or habitat; or
(5)
Water quality impairment in violation of state water quality standards, and/or violation of any state or federal regulations.
(Ord. No. 200612-1o, § 3.8, 12-5-2006)
Secs. 18-279—18-290. - Reserved.
DIVISION 3. - POST-DEVELOPMENT STORMWATER MANAGEMENT PERFORMANCE CRITERIA

Sec. 18-291. - Applicability.
The following performance criteria shall be applicable to all stormwater management plans, unless otherwise provided for in this article.
(Ord. No. 200612-1o, § 4, 12-5-2006)
Sec. 18-292. - Water quality.
All stormwater runoff generated from a site shall be adequately treated before discharge. It will be presumed that a stormwater management system complies with this requirement if:
It is sized to treat the prescribed water quality treatment volume from the site, as defined in the Georgia Stormwater Management Manual;
Appropriate structural stormwater controls or nonstructural practices are selected, designed, constructed or preserved, and maintained according to the specific criteria in the Georgia Stormwater Management Manual; and,
Runoff from hotspot land uses and activities identified by the zoning director are adequately treated and addressed through the use of appropriate structural stormwater controls, nonstructural practices and pollution prevention practices.
(Ord. No. 200612-1o, § 4.1, 12-5-2006)
Sec. 18-293. - Stream channel protection.
Protection of stream channels from bank and bed erosion and degradation shall be provided by using all of the following three approaches:
Preservation, restoration and/or reforestation (with native vegetation) of the applicable stream buffer;
24-hour extended detention storage of the 1-year, 24-hour return frequency storm event;
Erosion prevention measures such as energy dissipation and velocity control.
(Ord. No. 200612-1o, § 4.2, 12-5-2006)
Sec. 18-294. - Overbank flooding protection.
Downstream overbank flood and property protection shall be provided by controlling (attenuating) the post-development peak discharge rate to the pre-development rate for the 25-year, 24-hour return frequency storm event. If control of the 1-year, 24-hour storm under section 18-293 is exempted, then peak discharge rate attenuation of the two-year through the 25-year return frequency storm event must be provided.
(Ord. No. 200612-1o, § 4.3, 12-5-2006)
Sec. 18-295. - Extreme flooding protection.
Extreme flood and public safety protection shall be provided by controlling and safely conveying the 100-year, 24-hour return frequency storm event such that flooding is not exacerbated.
(Ord. No. 200612-1o, § 4.4, 12-5-2006)
Sec. 18-296. - Structural stormwater controls.
All structural stormwater management facilities shall be selected and designed using the appropriate criteria from the Georgia Stormwater Management Manual. All structural stormwater controls must be designed appropriately to meet their intended function. For other structural stormwater controls not included in the Georgia Stormwater Management Manual, or for which pollutant removal rates have not been provided, the effectiveness and pollutant removal of the structural control must be documented through prior studies, literature reviews, or other means and receive approval from the zoning director before being included in the design of a stormwater management system. In addition, if hydrologic or topographic conditions, or land use activities warrant greater control than that provided by the minimum control requirements, the zoning director may impose additional requirements deemed necessary to protect upstream and downstream properties and aquatic resources from damage due to increased volume, frequency, and rate of stormwater runoff or increased nonpoint source pollution loads created on the site in question.
Applicants shall consult the Georgia Stormwater Management Manual for guidance on the factors that determine site design feasibility when selecting and locating a structural stormwater control.
(Ord. No. 200612-1o, § 4.5, 12-5-2006)
Sec. 18-297. - Stormwater credits for nonstructural measures.
The use of one or more site design measures by the applicant may allow for a reduction in the water quality treatment volume required under section 18-292. The applicant may, if approved by the zoning director, take credit for the use of stormwater better site design practices and reduce the water quality volume requirement. For each potential credit, there is a minimum set of criteria and requirements which identify the conditions or circumstances under which the credit may be applied. The site design practices that qualify for this credit and the criteria and procedures for applying and calculating the credits are included in the Georgia Stormwater Management Manual.
(Ord. No. 200612-1o, § 4.6, 12-5-2006)
Sec. 18-298. - Drainage system guidelines.
Stormwater conveyance facilities, which may include but are not limited to culverts, stormwater drainage pipes, catch basins, drop inlets, junction boxes, headwalls, gutter, swales, channels, ditches, and energy dissipaters shall be provided when necessary for the protection of public right-of-way and private properties adjoining project sites and/or public right-of-ways. Stormwater conveyance facilities that are designed to carry runoff from more that one parcel, existing or proposed, shall meet the following requirements:
(1)
Methods to calculate stormwater flows shall be in accordance with the stormwater design manual;
(2)
All culverts, pipe systems and open channel flow systems shall be sized in accordance with the stormwater management plan using the methods included in the stormwater design manual; and,
(3)
Design and construction of stormwater conveyance facilities shall be in accordance with the criteria and specifications found in the stormwater design manual.
(Ord. No. 200612-1o, § 4.7, 12-5-2006)
Sec. 18-299. - Dam design guidelines.
Any land disturbing activity that involves a site which proposes a dam shall comply with the Georgia Safe Dams Act and Rules for Dam Safety as applicable.
(Ord. No. 200612-1o, § 4.8, 12-5-2006)
Secs. 18-300—18-310. - Reserved.
DIVISION 4. - CONSTRUCTION INSPECTIONS OF POST-DEVELOPMENT STORMWATER MANAGEMENT SYSTEM

Sec. 18-311. - Inspections to ensure plan compliance during construction.
Periodic inspections of the stormwater management system construction shall be conducted by the zoning director or any county employee designated by the zoning director or conducted and certified by a professional engineer who has been approved by Jones County. Construction inspections shall utilize the approved stormwater management plan for establishing compliance.
All inspections shall be documented with written reports that contain the following information:
(1)
The date and location of the inspection;
(2)
Whether construction is in compliance with the approved stormwater management plan;
(3)
Variations from the approved construction specifications; and,
(4)
Any other variations or violations of the conditions of the approved stormwater management plan.
If any violations are found, the applicant shall be notified in writing of the nature of the violation and the required corrective actions.
(Ord. No. 200612-1o, § 5.1, 12-5-2006)
Sec. 18-312. - Final inspection and as built plans.
Upon completion of a project, and before a certificate of occupancy shall be granted, the applicant is responsible for certifying that the completed project is in accordance with the approved stormwater management plan. All applicants are required to submit actual "as built" plans for any stormwater management facilities or practices after final construction is completed. The plan must show the final design specifications for all stormwater management facilities and practices and must be certified by a professional engineer. A final inspection by the zoning director or any county employee designated by the zoning director is required before the release of any performance securities can occur.
(Ord. No. 200612-1o, § 5.2, 12-5-2006)
Secs. 18-313—18-320. - Reserved.
DIVISION 5. - ONGOING INSPECTION AND MAINTENANCE OF STORMWATER FACILITIES AND PRACTICES

Sec. 18-321. - Long-term maintenance inspection of stormwater facilities and practices.
Stormwater management facilities and practices included in a stormwater management plan which are subject to an inspection and maintenance agreement must undergo ongoing inspections to document maintenance and repair needs and ensure compliance with the requirements of the agreement, the plan and this article.
A stormwater management facility or practice shall be inspected on a periodic basis by the responsible person in accordance with the approved inspection and maintenance agreement. In the event that the stormwater management facility has not been maintained and/or becomes a danger to public safety or public health, the zoning director or any county employee designated by the zoning director shall notify the person responsible for carrying out the maintenance plan by registered or certified mail to the person specified in the inspection and maintenance agreement. The notice shall specify the measures needed to comply with the agreement and the plan and shall specify the time within which such measures shall be completed. If the responsible person fails or refuses to meet the requirements of the inspection and maintenance agreement, the zoning director or any county employee designated by the zoning director, may correct the violation as provided in section 18-324 hereof.
Inspection programs by the zoning director or any county employee designated by the zoning director may be established on any reasonable basis, including but not limited to: routine inspections; random inspections; inspections based upon complaints or other notice of possible violations; and joint inspections with other agencies inspecting under environmental or safety laws. Inspections may include, but are not limited to: reviewing maintenance and repair records; sampling discharges, surface water, groundwater, and material or water in stormwater management facilities; and evaluating the condition of stormwater management facilities and practices.
Sec. 18-322. - Right-of-entry for inspection.
The terms of the inspection and maintenance agreement shall provide for the zoning director or any county employee designated by the zoning director to enter the property at reasonable times and in a reasonable manner for the purpose of inspection. This includes the right to enter a property when it has a reasonable basis to believe that a violation of this article is occurring or has occurred and to enter when necessary for abatement of a public nuisance or correction of a violation of this article.
(Ord. No. 200612-1o, § 6.2, 12-5-2006)
Sec. 18-323. - Records of maintenance activities.
Parties responsible for the operation and maintenance of a stormwater management facility shall provide records of all maintenance and repairs to the zoning director.
(Ord. No. 200612-1o, § 6.3, 12-5-2006)
Sec. 18-324. - Failure to maintain.
If a responsible person fails or refuses to meet the requirements of the inspection and maintenance agreement, Jones County, after 30 days' written notice (except, that in the event the violation constitutes an immediate danger to public health or public safety, 24 hours' notice shall be sufficient), may correct a violation of the design standards or maintenance requirements by performing the necessary work to place the facility or practice in proper working condition. Jones County may assess the owner(s) of the facility for the cost of repair work which shall be a lien on the property, and may be placed on the ad valorum tax bill for such property and collected in the ordinary manner for such taxes.
(Ord. No. 200612-1o, § 6.4, 12-5-2006)
Secs. 18-325—18-340. - Reserved.
DIVISION 6. - VIOLATIONS, ENFORCEMENT AND PENALTIES

Sec. 18-341. - Violation; relief.
Any action or inaction which violates the provisions of this article or the requirements of an approved stormwater management plan or permit, may be subject to the enforcement actions outlined in this section. Any such action or inaction which is continuous with respect to time is deemed to be a public nuisance and may be abated by injunctive or other equitable relief. The imposition of any of the penalties described below shall not prevent such equitable relief.
(Ord. No. 200612-1o, § 7, 12-5-2006)
Sec. 18-342. - Notice of violation.
If the zoning director or any county employee designated by the zoning director determines that an applicant or other responsible person has failed to comply with the terms and conditions of a permit, an approved stormwater management plan or the provisions of this article, it shall issue a written notice of violation to such applicant or other responsible person. Where a person is engaged in activity covered by this article without having first secured a permit therefor, the notice of violation shall be served on the owner or the responsible person in charge of the activity being conducted on the site.
The notice of violation shall contain:
(1)
The name and address of the owner or the applicant or the responsible person;
(2)
The address or other description of the site upon which the violation is occurring;
(3)
A statement specifying the nature of the violation;
(4)
A description of the remedial measures necessary to bring the action or inaction into compliance with the permit, the stormwater management plan or this article and the date for the completion of such remedial action;
(5)
A statement of the penalty or penalties that may be assessed against the person to whom the notice of violation is directed; and,
(6)
A statement that the determination of violation may be appealed to the Jones County Board of Appeals and Adjustments by filing a written notice of appeal within 30 days after the notice of violation (except, that in the event the violation constitutes an immediate danger to public health or public safety, 24 hours' notice shall be sufficient).
(Ord. No. 200612-1o, § 6.1, 12-5-2006)
Sec. 18-343. - Penalties.
In the event the remedial measures described in the notice of violation have not been completed by the date set forth for such completion in the notice of violation, any one or more of the following actions or penalties may be taken or assessed against the person to whom the notice of violation was directed. Before taking any of the following actions or imposing any of the following penalties, the zoning director or any county employee designated by the zoning director shall first notify the applicant or other responsible person in writing of its intended action, and shall provide a reasonable opportunity, of not less than ten days (except, that in the event the violation constitutes an immediate danger to public health or public safety, 24 hours' notice shall be sufficient) to cure such violation. In the event the applicant or other responsible person fails to cure such violation after such notice and cure period, the zoning director or any county employee designated by the zoning director may take any one or more of the following actions or impose any one or more of the following penalties.
(1)
Stop work order. The zoning director or any county employee designated by the zoning director may issue a stop work order which shall be served on the applicant or other responsible person. The stop work order shall remain in effect until the applicant or other responsible person has taken the remedial measures set forth in the notice of violation or has otherwise cured the violation or violations described therein, provided the stop work order may be withdrawn or modified to enable the applicant or other responsible person to take the necessary remedial measures to cure such violation or violations.
(2)
Withhold certificate of occupancy. The zoning director or any county employee designated by the zoning director may refuse to issue a certificate of occupancy for the building or other improvements constructed or being constructed on the site until the applicant or other responsible person has taken the remedial measures set forth in the notice of violation or has otherwise cured the violations described therein.
(3)
Suspension, revocation or modification of permit. The zoning director or any county employee designated by the zoning director may suspend, revoke or modify the permit authorizing the land development project. A suspended, revoked or modified permit may be reinstated after the applicant or other responsible person has taken the remedial measures set forth in the notice of violation or has otherwise cured the violations described therein, provided such permit may be reinstated [upon such conditions as the zoning director or any county employee designated by the zoning director may deem necessary] to enable the applicant or other responsible person to take the necessary remedial measures to cure such violations.
(4)
Civil penalties. In the event the applicant or other responsible person fails to take the remedial measures set forth in the notice of violation or otherwise fails to cure the violations described therein within ten days, or such greater period as the zoning director shall deem appropriate (except, that in the event the violation constitutes an immediate danger to public health or public safety, 24 hours' notice shall be sufficient) after the zoning director or any county employee designated by the zoning director has taken one or more of the actions described above, the zoning director or any county employee designated by the zoning director may impose a penalty not to exceed $1,000.00 (depending on the severity of the violation) for each day the violation remains unremedied after receipt of the notice of violation.
(5)
Criminal penalties. For intentional and flagrant violations of this article, the zoning director or any county employee designated by the zoning director may issue a citation to the applicant or other responsible person, requiring such person to appear in superior court to answer charges for such violation. Upon conviction, such person shall be punished by a fine not to exceed $1,000.00 or imprisonment for 60 days or both. Each act of violation and each day upon which any violation shall occur shall constitute a separate offense.
(Ord. No. 200612-1o, § 7.2, 12-5-2006)
Secs. 18-344—18-375. - Reserved.
ARTICLE VIII. - MINIMUM HEALTH AND SAFETY STANDARDS FOR PRE-OWNED MANUFACTURERED HOMES

Sec. 18-376. - Definitions.
The following words, terms, or phrases, when used in this article, shall have the meanings ascribed to them in this section:
Applicant means any person seeking to install a pre-owned manufactured home in the unincorporated area of Jones County.
Building inspector means the person appointed, employed, or otherwise designated as the director of planning, permits and inspections; the county building official or any of his or her assistants.
Certificate of occupancy means a document issued by the building inspector certifying that a pre-owned manufactured home is in compliance with applicable requirements set forth by this article, and indicating it to be in a condition suitable for residential occupancy.
Guarantee of condition bond means a surety bond to guarantee that the affidavit and photographs required by paragraphs (1) and (2) of subsection (a) of section 18-378 of this article reasonably portray or represents the existing condition of the pre-owned manufactured home proposed for relocation. In lieu of the bond, a cash deposit may be deposited with the county.
Install means to construct a foundation system and to place or erect a manufactured home on such foundation system. Such term includes, without limitation, supporting, blocking, leveling, securing, or anchoring such manufactured home and connecting multiple or expandable sections of such manufactured home.
Jurisdiction means the unincorporated areas within Jones County, Georgia.
Manufactured home means a structure, transportable in one or more sections, which, in the traveling mode, is eight body feet or more in width or 40 body feet or more in length or, when erected on-site, is 320 or more square feet and which is built on a permanent chassis and designed to be used as a dwelling with or without a permanent foundation when connected to the required utilities and includes the plumbing, heating, air-conditioning, and electrical systems contained therein; except that such term shall include any structure which meets all the requirements of this paragraph except the size requirements and with respect to which the manufacturer voluntarily files a certification required by the secretary of housing and urban development and complies with the standards established under the National Manufactured Housing Construction and Safety Standards Act of 1974, 42 U.S.C. Section 5401, et seq.
Pre-owned manufactured home means any manufactured home that has been previously used as a residential dwelling and has been titled.
(Ord. No. 201106-1o, § 8-20, 6-21-2011)
Sec. 18-377. - Conditions.
All pre-owned manufactured homes located in the jurisdiction shall bear a label certifying it was constructed in compliance with the National Manufactured Housing Construction and Safety Standards Act of 1974, 42 U.S.C. Section 5401, et seq. (the HUD Code) and shall be installed in accordance with O.C.G.A. § 8-2-160, et seq.
(Ord. No. 201106-1o, § 8-21, 6-21-2011)
Sec. 18-378. - Permitting, inspection, certificate of occupancy and fees.
A permit shall be required to locate a pre-owned manufactured home in the jurisdiction.
(a)
Permit. To obtain a permit, applicants shall provide to the building inspector:
(1)
An affidavit signed by the applicant that the pre-owned manufactured home meets health and safety standards required by this act;
(2)
Photographs of the interior and exterior of the pre-owned manufactured home providing evidence that home meets the minimum health and safety standards of section 18-379 of this article;
(3)
A $750.00 refundable guarantee of condition bond or $750.00 refundable cash deposit; and
(4)
The permit and inspection fee required by subsection (d) of this section.
(b)
Inspection. Upon receipt of a permit, applicants may relocate the manufactured home on a residential site for the purposes of inspection. Applicant shall arrange for an inspection to be held once the installation of the manufactured home is complete.
(c)
Certificate of occupancy. A certificate of occupancy shall be issued to the applicant at such time that the building inspector certifies that the requirements of this article have been met.
(d)
Fee. A permit and inspection fee of $0.30 times the square footage of the manufactured home shall be charged to the applicant to cover the cost to the county to process the permit application and inspect the pre-owned manufactured home. Such fee shall cover the initial inspection and one followup inspection. The applicant shall be charged an additional inspection fee of $0.15 times the square footage of the manufactured home for each additional followup inspection that may be necessary.
(e)
Alternative inspection. At the request of the applicant, the building inspector may, at his or her discretion, inspect a pre-owned manufactured home prior to its being relocated if the home is then located at another site within the county.
(Ord. No. 201106-1o, § 8-22, 6-21-2011)
Sec. 18-379. - Minimum health and safety standards.
All pre-owned manufactured homes shall comply with the following before being issued a certificate of occupancy by the building inspector:
(a)
HUD Code. Every pre-owned manufactured home located in the jurisdiction shall be in compliance with the Federal Manufactured Housing Construction and Safety Standards Act, 42 U.S.C. 5401-5445 (the HUD Code) and shall not have been altered in such a way that the home no longer meets the HUD Code.
(b)
Interior condition. Every floor, interior wall, and ceiling of a pre-owned manufactured home shall be in sound condition. Doors and windows shall be operable, watertight and in good working condition. The floor system shall be in sound condition and free of warping, holes, water damage, or deterioration.
(c)
Exterior condition. The exterior of all pre-owned manufactured homes shall be free of loose or rotting boards or timbers and any other conditions that might admit rain or moisture to the interior portions of the walls or to occupied spaces. The exterior siding shall be free of rot and rust. Roofs shall be structurally sound and have no obvious defects that might admit rain or cause moisture to collect on the interior portion of the home.
(d)
Sanitary facilities. Every plumbing fixture, water, and waste pipe of a pre-owned manufactured home shall be in a sanitary working condition when properly connected, and shall be free from leaks and obstructions. Each home shall contain a kitchen sink. Each bathroom shall contain a lavatory and water closet. At least one bathroom shall contain a tub and/or shower facilities. Each of these fixtures shall be checked upon being connected to ensure they are in good working condition.
(e)
Heating systems. Heating shall be safe and in working condition. Unvented heaters shall be prohibited.
(f)
Electrical systems (switches, receptacles, fixtures, etc.) shall be properly installed and wired and shall be in working condition. Distribution panels shall be in compliance with the approved listing, complete with required breakers, with all unused openings covered with solid covers approved and listed for that purpose. The home shall be subject to an electrical continuity test to assure that all metallic parts are properly bonded. Each pre-owned manufactured home shall contain a water heater in safe and working order.
(g)
Hot water supply. Each home shall contain a water heater in safe and working condition.
(h)
Egress windows. Each bedroom of a manufactured home shall have at least one operable window of sufficient size to allow egress if necessary.
(i)
Ventilation. The kitchen in the home shall have at least one operating window or other ventilation device.
(j)
Smoke detectors. Each pre-owned manufactured home shall contain one operable battery-powered smoke detector in each bedroom and in the kitchen, which must be installed in accordance with the manufacturer's recommendations.
(Ord. No. 201106-1o, § 8-23, 6-21-2011)
Sec. 18-380. - Enforcement.
(a)
Permanent connection to utilities shall not be approved until the building inspector has issued a certificate of occupancy.
(b)
Owners of pre-owned manufactured homes that are not in compliance upon a third inspection shall have their permit revoked and shall be required to remove the home from the jurisdiction at their own expense.
(c)
The guarantee of condition bond or cash deposit will be forfeited after 90 days from the date of inspection, unless all conditions and standards are met prior to the end of the 90 days or an extension has been issued in writing by the building inspector.
(Ord. No. 201106-1o, § 8-24, 6-21-2011)
Sec. 18-381. - Penalties
Failure to remove a pre-owned manufactured home from the jurisdiction upon failure to receive a certificate of occupancy shall be punishable by a fine of $500.00. Each day any violation under this ordinance continues shall be considered a separate offense.
(Ord. No. 201106-1o, § 8-25, 6-21-2011)
