ARTICLE XIV. - MOBILE FOOD VENDORS

Sec. 10-605. - Definitions.
The following words, terms and phrases, when used in this article, shall have the meanings ascribed to them in this section, except where the context clearly indicates a different meaning:
Commissary shall mean an approved catering establishment, restaurant, or other approved place in which food, containers or supplies are kept, handled, prepared, packaged or stored and also has obtained approval from the Newton County Health Department.
Mobile food vendor shall mean a retail food establishment that reports to and operates from a commissary and is readily moveable, is a motorized wheeled vehicle, or a towed wheeled vehicle designed and equipped to serve food.
(Ord. of 8-1-2016)
Sec. 10-606. - License required; application for license.
(a)
Except as otherwise provided by law, it shall be unlawful for a mobile food vendor to sell, or offer for sale, food of any type without a license first having been granted under this section, except for sales at city-authorized events for which the mobile food vendor has obtained a permit from the city.
(b)
An application for a business license or a permit hereunder shall be submitted to the city manager or his or her designee setting forth all information required hereunder and in compliance with this article. The city manager or his or her designee shall develop a form of application for the purpose of compliance with this article.
(c)
The following information and materials shall be provided with each application for a mobile food vendor business license:
(1)
Name of the mobile food vendor;
(2)
Make, model, and license plate number of vending unit;
(3)
Owner's contact information;
(4)
Operator's contact information;
(5)
Type of vendor (street vending unit or sidewalk vending unit);
(6)
Copy of approved permit from the department of public health, or county board of health acting as agent of the department, or the Georgia Department of Agriculture;
(7)
List of operating locations and times;
(8)
Signatures from property owners indicating consent for the use of their property;
(9)
Signature of applicant indicating agreement to the listed requirements.
(10)
Payment of a regulatory licensing fee in the amount of $50.00.
(Ord. of 8-1-2016)
Sec. 10-607. - Requirements for and limitations on operation.
(a)
No mobile food vendor shall conduct business or operate in the public right-of-way, except during city-authorized events.
(b)
A mobile food vendor shall not operate on any private property without the prior written consent of the owner.
(c)
A mobile food vendor shall maintain a $1,000,000.00 liability insurance policy. Proof of current liability insurance, issued by an insurance company licensed to do business in Georgia, protecting the mobile food vendor, the public and the city from all claims for damage to property and bodily injury, including death, which may arise from operation under or in connection with the permit. Such insurance shall name the city as an additional insured and shall provide that the policy shall not terminate or be canceled prior to the expiration date without 30 days advanced written notice to the city.
(d)
Unless approved for a specific location or event by the city manager or by his or her designee a mobile food vendor shall not make sounds or announcements to call attention to the mobile food vehicle either while traveling on the public rights-of-way or when stationary. At all times said mobile food vendor shall be in compliance with the City of Porterdale noise ordinance.
(e)
The license and all applicable health certificates under which a mobile food vendor is operating must be firmly attached and visible on the mobile food vendor or pushcart at all times.
(f)
Any driver of a mobile food vendor motorized vehicle must possess a valid Georgia driver's license.
(g)
Mobile food vendors are allowed only in nonresidential districts. The city manager or his or her designee for neighborhood events may grant variances in residential districts.
(h)
Mobile food vendors shall not be located within 15 feet of any street intersection or pedestrian crosswalk or ten feet of any driveway.
(i)
No sale or offer for sale shall be made by any mobile food vendor between 10:00 p.m. and 7:00 a.m. unless such sale is in conjunction with a city-authorized special event or film production permit.
(j)
Vending structures shall not be left unattended or stored at any time on the open vending site when vending is not taking place or during restricted hours of operation.
(k)
The mobile food vendor shall comply with all state, federal and local health and safety regulations and requirements and shall obtain and maintain any and all licenses required by any other health organization or governmental organization having jurisdiction over this subject matter.
(l)
The following safety regulations shall apply to any and all motorized vehicles operating under this article or used for mobile retail food establishments:
(1)
Every vehicle shall be equipped with a reverse gear signal alarm with a sound distinguishable from the surrounding noise level.
(2)
Every vehicle shall be equipped with two rear-vision mirrors, one at each side, firmly attached to the outside of the motor vehicle, and so located as to reflect to the driver a view of the highway to the rear, along both sides of the vehicle.
(m)
The mobile food vendor may sell only food and non-alcoholic beverage items.
(n)
Notwithstanding any ordinance to the contrary, a mobile food vendor shall be allowed signage marketing and/or advertising the business of the mobile food vendor, provided that such signage meets the following requirements:
(1)
One portable menu and/or sandwich board sign that shall not exceed six square feet per side in size, that is located on the premises where the mobile vendor unit is operating, and displayed only during such time as the mobile food vendor unit is open for food sale operations; and
(2)
Signs safely affixed to or painted on the mobile food vendor unit so as to be flat against the surface of that mobile food vendor unit.
(o)
The area within which a mobile food vendor unit is operating shall, at all times, be kept clean and free from litter, garbage, rubble and debris. To that end, each mobile food vendor unit must provide a trash or garbage receptacle in which patrons or customers may place their litter or garbage. The receptacle shall be within ten feet of the mobile food truck unit. The receptacle must be adequate in size so waste does not begin to overflow from the receptacle. The operator of the mobile food vendor unit must remove this litter or garbage from the permitted location when he or she leaves the permitted location.
(p)
Each mobile food vendor shall have and maintain a hand-sanitizing station or provide hand-washing facilities for use by customers of the mobile food vendor.
(q)
Operation of any mobile food truck units must maintain a minimum distance of 200 feet from any building housing an established licensed eating and drinking establishment. This distance will be measured from the serving window in a straight line to the property line of the nearest bricks and mortar food establishment. If a food truck operates less the 200 feet from any building housing an established licensed eating and drinking establishment, they must have expressed and signed consent from all affected establishments. This provision shall not apply to mobile food vendor units operating by invitation of the city at city-authorized events.
(r)
A drive-through shall not be used at any mobile food truck unit. A person operating a mobile food truck unit shall not conduct business with or accept orders from any patrons or customers while such patrons or customers are in their motor vehicles.
(Ord. of 8-1-2016)
Sec. 10-608. - Indemnification agreement required.
As part of the permitting process set forth herein, any person or entity receiving a permit set forth herein shall execute an indemnity agreement indemnifying and releasing the City of Porterdale, its agents, employees and elected officials from any and all liability against any and all claims, actions and suits of any type whatsoever.
(Ord. of 8-1-2016)
Sec. 10-609. - Term of license and renewal.
A mobile food vendor license issued under the provisions of this article shall be valid for a period ending on December 31 of the year issued. A mobile food vendor license may be renewed by following the process set out in section 10-606 above.
(Ord. of 8-1-2016)
Sec. 10-610. - Enforcement and penalties for violation.
The provisions of this article may be enforced through the city's code enforcement procedures or as otherwise authorized in this Code and may be pursued by appropriate remedy in a court of competent jurisdiction. The remedies that the city may pursue for a violation of this article include:
(1)
Any violation of this article may be punished as provided for in section 1-7(c) of this Code;
(2)
Revocation of the business license of the owner or operator of the mobile food truck unit found in violation of this article;
(3)
Refusal of the city to renew the business license of the owner or operator of the mobile food truck unit found in violation of this article;
(4)
If code enforcement is utilized to enforce this article, a resulting code enforcement lien may be assessed against the private property upon which the mobile food truck operation operates or operated.
(Ord. of 8-1-2016)
