ARTICLE I. - IN GENERAL

Sec. 10-1. - Insurance businesses.
(a)
License required. Each person, agency, firm, or company doing an insurance business within the municipal corporate limits shall be required to obtain a license from the city clerk/treasurer in the manner specified in this chapter.
(b)
Fee established. The annual business license fee for each company authorized by the state to write life, accident, and sickness insurance, as such terms are defined in O.C.G.A. title 33, ch. 7, shall be set by resolution of the council for each separate business location of such company in the city, and the business license fee for all other persons, agencies, firms, or companies doing an insurance business within the city shall be set by resolution of the council.
(Code 2003, § 32-204)
Sec. 10-2. - Franchise fees for state-issued cable or video franchises.
The city hereby requires a franchise fee of five percent of gross revenues generated within the city for any cable or video state franchise issued in its corporate boundaries by the State of Georgia. The city hereby authorizes the city manager, upon receipt of notice to the city of its right to designate a franchise fee for an applicant for or holder of an existing state franchise, to provide written notice to the Secretary of State and each applicant for or holder of a state franchise within a service area that is wholly or partially located within the city limits of the five percent franchise fee rate applicable to such applicant or holder of a state franchise.
State Law reference— Authority for above fee, O.C.G.A. § 36-76-6.
Sec. 10-3. - Drug-related objects and drug paraphernalia prohibited.
(a)
No holder of any license issued under this chapter shall sell, offer for sale, display, lend, rent, lease, give, exchange, keep in stock, possess with intent to sell, or otherwise distribute to any person, at any place of business licensed hereunder any of the following products:
(1)
Any drug-related object as defined by O.C.G.A. § 16-13-32(a)(1), or any instrument, device, or object which is designed or marketed as useful primarily for one or more of the following purposes:
a.
To inject, ingest, inhale, or otherwise introduce marijuana or a controlled substance into the human body;
b.
To enhance the effect of marijuana or a controlled substance on the human body;
c.
To test the strength, effectiveness, or purity of marijuana or a controlled substance;
d.
To process or prepare marijuana or a controlled substance for introduction into the human body;
e.
To conceal any quantity of marijuana or a controlled substance; or
f.
To contain or hold marijuana or a controlled substance while it is being introduced into the human body.
(2)
Any drug paraphernalia which shall include, but not be limited to, objects used or intended for use in ingesting, inhaling, or otherwise introducing marijuana or any controlled substance into the human body, such as:
a.
Metal, wooden, acrylic, glass, stone, plastic, or ceramic pipes with or without screens, permanent screens, hashish heads, or punctured metal bowls;
b.
Water pipes;
c.
Carburetion tubes and devices;
d.
Smoking and carburetion masks;
e.
Roach clips, which shall mean any object used to hold burning material, such as, but not limited to, a marijuana cigarette, that has become too small or too short to be held in the hand;
f.
Miniature cocaine spoons and cocaine vials;
g.
Chamber pipes;
h.
Carburetor pipes;
i.
Electric pipes;
j.
Air-driven pipes;
k.
Chillums;
l.
Bongs; and
m.
Ice pipes or chillers.
(b)
In determining whether an item constitutes a drug-related object or drug paraphernalia, in addition to all other logically relevant factors, the city commission may also consider the following factors:
(1)
Statements by an owner or anyone in control of the object or materials;
(2)
Instructions provided with the object or materials;
(3)
Descriptive materials accompanying the object or materials;
(4)
National and local advertising or promotional materials concerning the object or materials;
(5)
The appearance of, and any writing or other representations appearing on, the object or materials;
(6)
The manner in which the object or materials are displayed for sale or other distribution;
(7)
Expert testimony concerning the object or materials;
(8)
Any written or pictorial materials which are present in the location where the object or materials may be found; and
(9)
The existence and scope of legitimate uses of the object or materials in the community.
(c)
Any holder of a license who violates the provisions of this section shall be subject to the license suspension and/or revocation procedures outlined in this chapter.
(d)
Grandfather provisions.
(1)
From and after the effective date of the ordinance from which this chapter is derived, as defined in section 2.34 of the city Charter of the City of Porterdale, Georgia, it shall be unlawful for any business to acquire any additional stock of items regulated by this chapter.
(2)
Any business currently licensed in the City of Porterdale possessing items for sale that otherwise would violate the provisions of this chapter shall have three months from the effective date of the ordinance from which this chapter is derived to sell or otherwise dispose of items regulated hereunder.
(Code 2003, § 32-102; Ord. of 2-6-2012, § 32-102)
Secs. 10-4—10-24. - Reserved.
