Chapter 12 - MUNICIPAL COURT[1]

Footnotes:
--- (1) ---
State Law reference— Municipal courts, O.C.G.A. § 36-32-1 et seq.

Sec. 12-1. - Bailiff.
The bailiff of the municipal court shall be appointed by the council. The duties of the bailiff shall consist generally of seeing that the courtroom is in proper condition for sessions of court, of assisting in keeping order while court is in session, and of doing such other acts of assistance as may be required of him by the judge of the municipal court and the court clerk.
(Code 2003, § 5-104)
Sec. 12-2. - Record of cases.
A record of all cases heard in the municipal court for violation of this Code or other municipal ordinances shall be kept in a suitable bound volume by the court clerk. Such record shall contain the name of the defendant, the nature of the offense charged, the final disposition of the case, and the date of final disposition.
(Code 2003, § 5-105)
Sec. 12-3. - Service of summons.
Any person charged with violating any city ordinance shall receive notice by service of a summons as herein provided. Such summons may be issued by the court clerk, the building inspector, or any police officer of the city. The summons shall be directed to the accused and shall distinctly state the offense charged, the time and place, as far as practicable, of the offense charged, and the day, hour, and place of trial, requiring the accused to appear before the judge of the municipal court to answer accusations made. Service of the summons shall be made by a police officer of the city either by serving the accused personally or by leaving a copy at his most notorious place of abode, except that in the case of a summons issued for violation of laws or ordinances relating to the parking of motor vehicles, such summons may be directed to an unknown person as owner of an automobile designated in the summons and may be served upon such person by leaving a copy in or attached to such automobile.
(Code 2003, § 5-107)
Sec. 12-4. - Subpoenas.
The court clerk shall issue subpoenas for the appearance of all witnesses necessary for the prosecution or for the defense in any case pending before the municipal court. All subpoenas shall be served in the same manner as a summons.
(Code 2003, § 5-108)
Sec. 12-5. - Failure to obey summons or subpoena.
Any person who fails to appear at the time and place set out in any summons or subpoena served upon him shall be guilty of contempt of court and upon conviction thereof shall be punished for same.
(Code 2003, § 5-109)
Sec. 12-6. - Arrest and bond.
When a police officer has arrested any person for violation of any provision of this Code or any municipal ordinance and trial cannot be had immediately, the officer may take cash bond not exceeding the maximum fine for the offense, or a bond with a good security, for the appearance of such person before the judge of the municipal court. If such person fails or refuses to give a bond, the officer may confine him in the county jail until a trial can be held, provided that the municipal court judge, in his discretion, may release such person on his own recognizance without security. No person shall be incarcerated in the city jail for more than 72 hours without being tried by the municipal judge.
(Code 2003, § 5-110)
Sec. 12-7. - Court cost.
The costs which shall be charged against a defendant in the municipal court in the event of his conviction shall not exceed an amount as determined by council, which sum shall be paid into the city treasury.
(Code 2003, § 5-112)
Sec. 12-8. - Malicious prosecution.
Whenever the judge of the municipal court, after a fair and full trial, is satisfied that any case was frivolously or maliciously prosecuted, he shall assess the prosecution with the court costs and such punitive damages as he deems appropriate.
(Code 2003, § 5-113)
Sec. 12-9. - Collection of fines.
When directed by the judge of the municipal court, the court clerk shall issue executions for fines imposed by said court, including the costs, which executions may be levied upon any goods or chattels, lands, or tenements of the person so fined.
(Code 2003, § 5-114)
