ARTICLE VI. - FINANCIAL INSTITUTIONS[6]

Footnotes:
--- (6) ---
State Law reference— Local depository financial institutions business license tax, O.C.G.A. § 48-6-93.

Sec. 22-131. - License fee levied.
(a)
There is hereby levied an annual license fee upon the gross receipts generated by or credited to an office within the corporate limits of the city upon each national bank and banking association, federal savings and loan association, building and loan association, bank organized and chartered under the laws of the state, and corporations doing banking business within the city. Such license fee shall be based upon the amount of annual gross receipts and is hereby fixed at the following rate schedule:
(1)
Five-tenths percent of gross receipts on the first $3,000,000.00 of gross receipts;
(2)
One-tenth percent of gross receipts on the next $20,000,000.00 ($3,000,000.00 to $23,000,000.00) of gross receipts;
(3)
None upon the gross receipts in excess of $23,000,000.00.
(b)
The term "gross receipts" shall mean the gross receipts of the business from all earnings, fees, commissions, interest, rentals and all other income whatsoever arising from or growing out of the conduct of the business without any deduction whatsoever except sales and excise taxes.
(Code 1967, § 12½-71)
Sec. 22-132. - Administrative provisions.
(a)
Each such corporation to which this article applies, doing business within the city shall, on or before May 1 each year, file with the clerk of the city its estimate of gross receipts to be generated for that year. The license fees levied by this article based on such estimate are due and payable on June 1, 1975, and on June 1 of each succeeding year. Any such license fee based on such estimate not paid by July 1 for each respective year shall be delinquent, and further, on or before the following February 1 of each year, each such corporation or association doing business shall file its report under oath with the clerk of the city showing its actual aggregate gross receipts for the preceding calendar year. If such report reflects an estimated underpayment of the actual license fee payable under the provisions of this article, the amount of such underpayment shall be due and payable on February 1 each year and shall be delinquent if not paid by March 1 each year. If such report reflects an estimated overpayment of the actual license tax levied by this article, such overpayment shall be refunded by the city. All reports required to be filed under this article shall be confidential, and the information contained therein shall be solely for use of the officers of the city responsible for administering this article.
(b)
The clerk of the city shall be authorized to prepare and supply forms for the preparation and submission of reports of estimated gross receipts and reports of actual annual gross receipts.
(Code 1967, § 12½-72)
Sec. 22-133. - Determination of license fee for new business.
If a business, as described and classified in this article, is commenced after May 1 of any license year that this article is in effect, it shall be the duty of any such new business to file with the clerk of the city, on or before commencing business, its estimate of gross receipts to be generated for that year and to pay on or before the date such business is commenced the license fee based upon such estimate, computed according to the rate specified in this article. Any such license fee based on such estimate not paid within 30 days from the date such business is commenced shall be delinquent, and further, on or before the following February 1, such corporation shall file its report under oath with the clerk of the city showing its actual aggregate gross receipts for such preceding partial calendar year. The provisions of section 22-132 with respect to underpayment or overpayment of estimated license fees shall also be applicable to such new business.
(Code 1967, § 12½-73)
Sec. 22-134. - Enforcement of article.
The fees and taxes levied by this article may be enforced by execution in the same manner as other taxes of the city. A violation of this article shall be grounds for refusing or revoking a license, and the person responsible may be punished as for violations of other city ordinances.
(Code 1967, § 12½-74)
Sec. 22-135. - Deadline penalties.
Failure to file reports and pay the license fees herein levied before the same become delinquent shall subject such corporation or association to an additional ten percent of the amount required to be paid as a penalty for such negligence and delinquency. Further, all amounts not paid by due date shall bear interest at the legal rate as prescribed by the laws of the state.
(Code 1967, § 12½-75)
Sec. 22-136. - Repeal of conflicting provisions.
All ordinances and parts of ordinances in conflict herewith are hereby repealed. National banks and banking associations, federal savings and loan associations, banks organized and chartered under the laws of the state, and any corporation doing banking business shall be excluded from the levy and assessment of business license fees and taxes under provisions of that certain ordinance of the city, adopted December 20, 1971, to levy and assess special taxes for the city. The provisions of such ordinance in so far as the same relate to corporations and associations doing banking business as classified in this section are hereby repealed.
(Code 1967, § 12½-76)
Secs. 22-137—22-160. - Reserved.
