Chapter 12 - FIRE PREVENTION
ARTICLE I. - IN GENERAL

Secs. 12-1—12-18. - Reserved.
ARTICLE II. - FIRE PREVENTION AND PROTECTION[1]

Footnotes:
--- (1) ---
State Law reference— Regulation of fire and other hazards to persons and property generally, O.C.G.A. § 25-2-1 et seq.; statewide application of Statewide Fire Prevention Code, O.C.G.A. § 8-2-25(a); power of Jekyll Island-State Park Authority to establish fire department, O.C.G.A. § 12-3-235(22).

Sec. 12-19. - Definition of terms used in fire codes.
The following words, terms and phrases, when used in the fire codes, shall have the meanings ascribed to them in this section, except where the context clearly indicates a different meaning:
Bureau of fire prevention means the fire department of the authority.
Chief of the bureau of fire prevention means the chief of the fire department of the authority.
Corporation counsel means the legal counsel for the authority.
Municipality means the authority.
(Code 1981, § 4-102; Ord. of 3-30-1987, § 4-102)
Sec. 12-20. - Penalties.
Any person who shall violate any of the provisions of the fire code adopted in this article or fails to comply therewith, or who shall violate or fail to comply with any order made thereunder, shall for each such failure, violation or noncompliance be punished as provided and stipulated by law.
(Code 1981, § 4-107; Ord. of 3-30-1987, § 4-106)
Sec. 12-21. - Adoption of fire codes by reference.
There is hereby adopted by the authority for the purpose of prescribing regulations governing conditions hazardous to life and property from fire or explosion, those certain codes, laws and regulations known as the International Fire Code, 2006 edition, with Georgia Amendments (2010). Not less than one copy of the fire code has been and is now filed in the office of the authority headquarters or at a location designated by the authority. The fire code is adopted and incorporated as fully as if set out at length herein, and from the date on which the ordinance from which this article is derived shall take effect, the provisions thereof shall be controlling within the limits of the island.
(Code 1981, § 4-101; Ord. of 3-30-1987, § 4-101)
Sec. 12-22. - Amendments to fire codes.
The fire code adopted herein is amended as follows in this article.
(Code 1981, § 4-103; Ord. of 3-30-1987, § 4-103)
Sec. 12-23. - Enforcement.
The fire code adopted in this article shall be enforced by the fire chief and such subordinate officers and firefighters of the fire department as are required to effectuate the provisions of said code.
(Code 1981, § 4-104; Ord. of 3-30-1987, § 4-104)
Sec. 12-24. - Bonfires.
Except as otherwise provided in this Code, it shall be unlawful for any person to collect, accumulate or assemble any material of any kind for the purposes of building a bonfire of any magnitude, large or small, and it shall be unlawful to light, burn, execute or maintain a bonfire within the authority limits. Fires started in violation of this article shall be extinguished promptly by the person responsible for the same upon notice by the chief of the fire department or his duly appointed representative.
(Code 1981, § 4-106; Ord. of 3-30-1987, § 4-105)
Sec. 12-25. - Powers of the island fire department.
(a)
The authority at its discretion shall provide and operate a fire department to be known as the island fire department ("fire department").
(b)
The fire department shall have the powers of a fire department of a county, municipality, or other political subdivision as set forth in chapter 3 of title 25 of the Official Code of Georgia Annotated ("O.C.G.A."), and such additional powers as may from time to time be provided by the authority or by law.
(c)
The fire department and the authority and their members, officers and employees shall be immune from any and all actions brought as a result of damages sustained as a result of any fire or related hazard in accordance with O.C.G.A. § 25-2-38.1.
(d)
The executive director of the authority shall prescribe the duties of the fire department and all fire department personnel shall be employees of the authority.
(Ord. of 9-26-1983, § 4-108)
Sec. 12-26. - Fire protection and suppression services fee.
(a)
Persons holding leasehold interests (estate for years) in and to real property on the island, wherever found and no matter in whose possession such real property may be, shall be charged and shall be liable for a fire protection fee.
(b)
The fire protection fee so charged shall be derived from a percentage of the assessed value, being a percentage of the appraised value, of each parcel of real property, which method of derivation is and shall be reasonably related to the cost of providing fire protection and suppression and other services by or through the fire department. The assessed value and appraised value of each parcel of real property shall be the same as the respective values for each such parcel of real property as shown on the appropriate official records of the county as of the day the fire protection fee is established. The percentage of the assessed value of each parcel of real property upon which the fire protection fee is based shall be equal to the millage rate established by and for the county, for and applicable to fire protection and suppression services provided by the county.
(c)
The fire protection fee shall be charged annually on a fiscal-year basis commencing on July 1 and ending on June 30.
(d)
For each fiscal year, the executive director of the authority shall on or before the first business day in April of each calendar year:
(1)
Establish the amount of the fire protection fee for each lessee of the authority for the next succeeding fiscal year; and
(2)
Mail or otherwise send notices of the amount of the respective fee to each lessee of the authority.
For each fiscal year, the fire protection fee shall be due and payable on or before the first business day in July of each calendar year, except for any fees not then established or determined.
(e)
Persons charged and liable for the fire protection fee as of the day on which the fire protection fee shall be due and payable, shall be liable for the entire annual fee charged irrespective of whether their leasehold interest shall be sold, conveyed, aliened or assigned during the fiscal year for which the fee is charged.
(f)
The fire protection fee shall be collected by officers designated by the authority. The fire protection fee may be paid in person at or mailed to authority headquarters at 100 James Road Jekyll Island, Georgia 31520, or at any place hereafter designated by the executive director.
(g)
The fire protection fee shall be collected by officers designated by the authority. The fire protection fee may be paid in person at or mailed to authority headquarters at 375 Riverview Drive, Jekyll Island, Georgia 31520, or at any place hereafter designated by the executive director.
(h)
Contesting of fee procedure.
(1)
Any person charged a fire protection fee may contest the amount of such fee by filing with the executive director a written protest within 45 days next succeeding the day that notice of the fire protection fee is mailed or otherwise sent by the executive director to such person. If no such written protest, including all the required information as hereinafter set forth, is filed by the claimant within the prescribed time period, then such claimant shall be deemed to have waived any and all rights to contest the amount of the fire protection fee, and the amount of such fee shall become final.
(2)
All protests shall be prepared in the form and contain such information as the executive director shall reasonably require and shall include a summary statement of all the grounds upon which the claimant relies and shall set forth with particularity the reasons for contesting the fee and all evidence of the claimant contesting the fee so charged. In the event the claimant desires a conference or a hearing with the executive director, the fact of such desire must be set out in the written protest, or the claimant shall be deemed to have waived any and all rights to have a conference or hearing with the executive director for the purpose of contesting the amount of the fire protection fee charged claimant. When any claimant requests such a conference or hearing, the executive director shall appoint a time and place for hearing the claimant's objections to the amount of the fire protection fee, and shall give notice to such claimant no less than five days before the conference or hearing, stating the time and place of said conference or hearing.
(3)
The executive director shall consider only evidence relevant to the amount of the fee, and any other evidence or matter shall be disregarded. The executive director may request or permit additional evidence, either orally or in writing, which he may determine relevant and appropriate. Upon consideration of the evidence presented, the executive director may reduce or increase the amount of the fee so charged and shall set forth the reasons wherefore in writing. The determination of the executive director shall be the conclusive and final administrative determination of the authority.
(i)
Any fire protection fee not paid by holders of leasehold interests on the island when due and payable shall become a lien on such leasehold interests from the day when such fee becomes due and payable until fully paid. For any fee not paid within 45 days next succeeding the day the fee becomes due and payable, the executive director shall cause by affidavit a notice of a lien upon the leasehold interest involved to be filed in the appropriate records of the clerk of the superior court of the county. Except as otherwise expressly provided by law, this lien shall be superior to all other liens, except liens for state and county taxes and taxes levied for any and all school purposes.
(j)
Discharge of lien procedure.
(1)
Upon final payment of the fire protection fee and any and all interest which may have accrued, such lien shall be discharged and the executive director shall cause the notice of the lien filed in the records of the clerk of the superior court of the county to be cancelled of record within ten days after final payment.
(2)
The cancellation required shall be in the following form:
Clerk, Superior Court of Glynn County
You are authorized and directed to cancel of record the notice of lien rights which the Jekyll Island-State Park Authority has filed on the leasehold interest owned by (name of owner) on (give date) and recorded by you in Book _____, Page _____, of notices kept by you.
This _____ day of ___________, 20___.
(k)
Enforcement of lien procedure.
(1)
In case of neglect or refusal by a lessee holding a leasehold interest on the island to pay the amount of the fire protection fee due and payable, the executive director is empowered to enforce such lien in the manner hereinafter provided or in such other manner as shall be provided by law.
(2)
In the event the fire protection fee shall not be paid by the next day succeeding the day upon which a notice of lien is filed, then the executive director or his authorized representative shall be empowered to levy and conduct a judicial sale of the involved leasehold in the manner provided by law for sales by sheriffs and constables.
(3)
Advertisements of sales shall designate the time and place of the sale, shall give a full and complete description of the leasehold interest to be sold, shall be posted at the offices of the authority and in one public place in the county, and shall be published and inserted at least once a week for four weeks in the newspaper in which sheriff's sales in the county are advertised. If the fire protection fee is not paid by the day of the sale, the leasehold interest shall be sold or so much thereof as may be necessary to satisfy the claims of the authority, together with all costs and charges. Sales shall be at the authority offices located at 100 James Road Jekyll Island, Georgia 31520, or at any place designated by the authority by advertisement, on the first Tuesday of each month and shall be held between the hours of 10:00 a.m. and 4:00 p.m. eastern standard time or eastern daylight saving time, whichever is applicable.
(4)
The authority may bid and purchase at such sale. Furthermore, the executive director is authorized and empowered to issue a sheriff's deed to any and all leasehold interests sold at such a sale.
(5)
Whenever any leasehold interest is sold under or by virtue of an execution issued for the collection of the fire protection fee, the holder of the leasehold interest or any person having any right, title or interest in or lien upon such leasehold interest may redeem the leasehold interest from the sale by the payment of the redemption price or the amount required for redemption as hereinafter fixed and provided at any time:
a.
Within 12 months from the date of the sale; and
b.
After the sale until the right to redeem is foreclosed, by the giving of notice as provided by O.C.G.A. §§ 48-4-45 and 48-4-46.
(6)
The amount required to be paid for redemption of the leasehold interest from any sale for satisfaction of the fire protection fee as herein provided, shall be the amount paid for the leasehold interest at the sale, plus a premium of ten percent of the amount for each year or fraction of a year which has elapsed between the date of the sale and the date on which the redemption payment is made. If redemption is not made until after the required notice has been given, there shall be added to the redemption price:
a.
The authority's cost in connection with serving the notice;
b.
The cost of publication of the notice, if any; and
c.
The further sum of ten percent of the amount paid for the leasehold interest at the sale to cover the cost of making the necessary examinations to determine the persons upon whom notice should be served.
(l)
All notices regarding any and all matters in this section shall be mailed to each lessee of the authority as shown by the records of the authority, and such lessee of the authority shall be solely responsible for the payment of the fire protection fee unless the records of the authority are otherwise corrected; provided, however, the executive director may mail notices to and accept payment from an agent of any lessee of the authority as the executive director shall determine appropriate.
(m)
The fire protection fee shall be exclusive of and in addition to any and all other fees, rents and payments made to the authority, and without limitation of the foregoing, shall be separate from and in addition to any public safety service fee that is either currently charged or may in the future be charged.
(Ord. of 9-26-1983, § 4-109; Res. of 10-27-2014(1))
Secs. 12-27—12-55. - Reserved.
ARTICLE III. - FUEL STORAGE[2]

Footnotes:
--- (2) ---
State Law reference— Liquefied Petroleum Safety Act, O.C.G.A. § 10-1-260 et seq.; conflicting local ordinances or regulations prohibited, O.C.G.A. § 10-1-270.

Sec. 12-56. - Adoption of liquefied petroleum safety act by reference.
There is hereby adopted by the authority, for the purpose of prescribing regulations governing the storage of fuel oil and LP gas, the Liquefied Petroleum Safety Act of Georgia, O.C.G.A. § 10-1-260 et seq., together with all rules and regulations promulgated and/or adopted thereunder of said Act's rules and regulations, not less than one copy has been and is now filed in the office of the authority headquarters; and the same is adopted and incorporated as fully as if set out at length herein, and from the date on which the ordinance from which this article is derived shall take effect, the provisions thereof shall be controlling within the limits of the authority.
(Code 1981, § 10-101)
Sec. 12-57. - Flammable liquids.
(a)
This section and the fire codes shall apply to all persons, firms, corporations, partnerships and governmental agencies storing, handling or using flammable liquids within the boundaries of the territory under the jurisdiction of the authority as of the date of the ordinance from which this section is derived. The term "flammable liquids" means any liquid having a flashpoint below 100 degrees Fahrenheit and having a vapor pressure not exceeding 40 pounds per square inch (absolute) at 100 degrees Fahrenheit.
(b)
This section shall not apply to:
(1)
The storage of flammable liquids by aircraft, marine and automobile service stations authorized to do business on the island by virtue of lease agreements contemplating flammable liquid storage, entered into with the authority;
(2)
Flammable liquids in fuel tanks of a motor vehicle, aircraft or boat;
(3)
Flammable or combustible paints, oils, varnishes and similar mixtures used for painting or maintenance when not kept for periods in excess of 30 days; or
(4)
Beverages.
(c)
Existing flammable liquid storage equipment which is not in strict compliance with the terms of this section may be continued in use provided that in the opinion of the executive director it does not constitute a distinct hazard to life or adjoining property. When the executive director deems that continued storage of flammable liquid in violation of the terms of this section will constitute a distinct hazard to life or adjoining property, he will notify the owner or user of the stored flammable liquid that the continued storage has been determined to be a hazard to life or adjoining property and specify the reasons for such finding in writing. After such notice, the owner or user will have one day to remove the stored liquid.
(d)
Underground flammable storage tanks and containers meeting the standards of nationally recognized testing agencies, used solely for the storage of flammable liquids consumed on the premises, of a capacity of 100 gallons or less shall be considered as meeting the requirements of this section.
(e)
The executive director shall have the power to grant exemption from application of this section upon request in writing to do so when such request shows that the enforcement of the section will cause unnecessary hardship to the petitioner; provided that said request shall not be granted where the requested use will, in the opinion of the executive director, constitute a distinct hazard to life or adjoining property. The particulars of such exemptions shall be entered upon the approval granted. A copy thereof shall be returned to the entity making the request by the executive director.
(f)
An owner, lessee, agent, operator or occupant aggrieved by any order issued pursuant to this section may file an appeal to the authority within ten days from the service of such an order, and the authority shall hear such appeal at the next occurring regular meeting of the authority, notice to be given to the petitioner as to the time and place. Such appeal shall stay the execution of such order until it has been heard and reviewed, vacated or confirmed. The authority shall at such hearing confirm, modify, revoke, or vacate such order. Unless revoked or vacated, such order shall then be complied with.
(g)
Nothing contained in this section shall be deemed to deny the right of any person, firm, corporation, partnership, governmental association or voluntary association, to appeal from an order or decision of the authority to a court of competent jurisdiction. Such appeal shall stay the execution of such an order until it has been heard and reviewed by the court, vacated or confirmed.
(Code 1981, § 10-102; Ord. of 3-30-1987, § 10-102)
