Chapter 24 - TRAFFIC AND MOTOR VEHICLES

Sec. 24-1. - Uniform Rules of the Road adopted by reference.
(a)
Adoption by reference. The Uniform Rules of the Road, O.C.G.A. § 40-6-1 and the definitions contained in O.C.G.A. § 40-1-1 are hereby adopted as and for the traffic regulations of the authority, with like effect as if recited in full herein.
(b)
Penalties. Any person convicted of a violation of any provision of this section shall be punished as provided and stipulated by law.
(c)
Repeal. All ordinances, code sections, or parts of ordinances or code sections inconsistent with the provisions of this section are hereby repealed.
(Code 1981, § 5-101)
Sec. 24-2. - Authorized areas for motor vehicles.
(a)
The following words, terms and phrases, when used in this section, shall have the meanings ascribed to them in this subsection, except where the context clearly indicates a different meaning:
Motor vehicle means every vehicle which is self-propelled as defined by O.C.G.A. § 40-1-1(29), including but not limited to mopeds, as defined by O.C.G.A. § 40-1-1(20), golf carts and all-terrain vehicles.
(b)
All motor vehicles shall be restricted to streets and parking areas only and shall be prohibited from all other areas including, but not limited to, the beaches, dune areas and the approaches thereto, the bicycle paths, the golf cart paths and the nature walking trails.
(c)
Golf carts used in conjunction with the game of golf and during play shall be allowed on those several golf cart paths on the island.
(Code 1981, § 5-102; Res. of 12-6-1982, § 5-102)
Sec. 24-3. - Overnight parking.
There shall be no overnight parking of motorized vehicles and/or trailers/campers in the public areas of the authority.
(Code 1981, § 5-103)
Sec. 24-4. - Golf carts.
(a)
Purpose and definitions.
(1)
Purpose. There is a public interest in having a means of travel that is cost effective, energy efficient and an alternate means of travel for short distances on the Island instead of using motor vehicles. This article establishes the minimum standards for the operator to use when traveling upon public streets, roads and highways and property owned or leased by the authority.
(2)
Definitions. For the purposes of this section, a "golf cart" is defined as a "motorized cart" having no less than three wheels and an unladen weight of 1,300 pounds or less and which cannot operate at more than 20 miles per hour. The definition is repeated here for convenience only and the definition set out in O.C.G.A. § 40-1-1, as amended from time to time, is controlling for this purpose.
(b)
Legality. The operation of golf carts on the public streets, roads and highways within the geographic boundaries of Jekyll Island and on property owned or leased by the authority in compliance with the rules and regulations of this section shall be permitted.
(c)
Rules and regulations. The following rules and regulations are adopted for the operation of golf carts. Low speed vehicles shall be operated under the Georgia regulations for licensed motor vehicles. Golf carts may only be operated on public streets or property owned or leased by the authority within the geographic boundaries of Jekyll Island in accordance with the following rules and regulations:
(1)
A motor vehicle driver's license issued by a state agency shall be required to operate a golf cart on a public street, road or highway;
(2)
Golf carts may be driven on public streets, roads and highways on Jekyll Island and on property owned or leased by the authority only if equipped with:
a.
Headlamps;
b.
Front and rear turn signal lights;
c.
Tail lights;
d.
Brake lights;
e.
An interior rear view mirror;
f.
Parking brake;
g.
Windshield;
h.
A Type 1 or Type 2 seat belt assembly installed at each seating position.
(3)
Golf carts are permitted to be operated only on streets with a posted speed limit of 35 mph or less;
(4)
Golf cart operators must adhere to all traffic regulations and requirements applicable to the road or street being traveled and must yield the right-of-way to approaching vehicles;
(5)
Golf carts are not permitted to travel on sidewalks, bike paths or any motorized vehicle restricted areas;
(6)
All occupants shall be in a seated position on an installed seat and the use of seat belts shall be mandatory while the cart is in motion;
(7)
All persons operating golf carts must be observant of, and attentive to the safety of themselves and others, including their passengers, other motorists, bicyclists, and pedestrians. The Georgia State Patrol and the Jekyll Island Code Enforcement has the authority to issue a citation to the operator for violations of the terms of this section;
(8)
Golf carts shall be parked in the same manner and place as designated parking for other motor vehicles. Stopping, standing or parking carts in places and in a manner not allowed for vehicle parking or so as to impede the flow of traffic, pedestrian walkways or passageways are prohibited. Parking in reserved handicapped locations requires the appropriate handicap placard or sticker;
(9)
Golf carts shall not be used for commercial purposes such as, but not limited to, taxicabs, buses, or hauling freight;
(10)
Golf carts shall not be used for the towing of another cart, wagon, skateboard, or a person on roller skates, bicycle and the like;
(11)
No open containers of alcoholic beverages are permitted on a golf cart while on a public street, road or highway or on property owned or leased by the authority.
(d)
Allowable uses. Golf carts operated under the following uses are not required to meet the provisions of paragraph (c) above:
(1)
The operation of golf carts at golf courses, private clubs or on private property, with the consent of the owner.
(2)
The use of golf carts in connection with a parade, a festival or other special event, provided the consent of the sponsor is obtained and such vehicle is used only in conjunction with such event.
(e)
Penalties. Operation of a golf cart in violation of the provisions of this section will subject the offender to a civil penalty not exceeding $100.00 for each offense, which shall be paid to the Clerk of the Magistrate Court of Glynn County within the time proscribed on the notice of the violation.
(f)
Liability disclaimer. This section is adopted to address the interest of public safety. Golf carts are not designed or manufactured to be used on public streets and the Jekyll Island Authority in no way advocates or endorse their operation on public streets or roads. The Jekyll Island Authority, by regulating such operation is merely trying to address obvious safety issues, and adoption of this section is not to be relied upon as a determination that operating on pubic streets is safe or advisable if done in accordance with this section. All persons who operate or ride upon golf carts on public streets or roads do so at their own risk and peril, and must be observant of, and attentive to the safety of themselves and others, including their passengers, other motorists, bicycles, and pedestrians. The Jekyll Island Authority has no liability under any theory of liability and the authority assumes no liability for permitting golf carts to be operated on public streets and roads under the laws passed by the Georgia Legislature.
(Ord. of 10-7-2014(2))
Sec. 24-5. - Shared mobility devices.
(a)
Purpose. The purpose of this section is to prohibit shared mobility devices from being placed in the public right-of-way or on public property, operated in the public right-of-way or on public property, or offered for use anywhere on Jekyll Island, so as to allow for adequate pedestrian traffic flow and to promote public safety.
(b)
Definition. For purposes of this section, "shared mobility device" means any wheeled device, other than an automobile, motorcycle, electric personal assistive mobility device, electric assisted bicycle, electric personal transportation vehicles, moped, golf cart, or personal transportation vehicle as those devices are defined by state law, that is powered by a motor; is accessed via an on-demand portal, whether a smartphone application, membership card, or similar method; is operated by a private entity that owns, manages, and maintains devices for shared use by members of the public; and is available to members of the public in unstaffed, self-service locations.
(c)
General requirements. It is unlawful to park, leave standing, leave lying, abandon, or otherwise place a shared mobility device on property owned or leased by the authority, including but not limited to any public right-of-way or public property within the geographic boundaries of Jekyll Island. It is unlawful to operate a shared mobility device on property owned or leased by the authority, including but not limited to any public right-of-way or public property within the boundaries of Jekyll Island. It is unlawful to provide or offer for use a shared mobility device anywhere within the boundaries of Jekyll Island.
(d)
Violations; impoundment. Violations of this section shall be punishable as provided for in chapter 1, section 1-8 of this Code. Georgia State Patrol officers, authority code enforcement officers, and those authority officials or designees otherwise designated by the executive director of the authority are authorized to impound any shared mobility device that has been offered for use, placed in the public right-of-way or on public property, or operated in a public right-of-way or on public property in violation of this section. The impoundment shall be subject to an impound and storage fee as may from time to time be established by the authority.
(Res. of 3-19-2019)
