Chapter 30 - OFFENSES AND MISCELLANEOUS PROVISIONS[1]
Footnotes:
--- (1) ---
State Law reference— Crimes and offenses, O.C.G.A. § 16-1-1 et seq.; criminal trespass, O.C.G.A. § 16-7-21; maintaining a disorderly house, O.C.G.A. § 16-11-44; peeping Toms, O.C.G.A. § 16-11-61; abandonment of containers, O.C.G.A. § 16-11-100; cruelty to animals, O.C.G.A. § 16-12-4; gambling, O.C.G.A. § 16-12-20 et seq.

ARTICLE I. - IN GENERAL

Sec. 30-1. - Disorderly conduct.
It shall be unlawful and disorderly conduct for any person to:
(1)
Act in a violent or tumultuous manner toward another, whereby a reasonable person would be placed in fear of safety for life or limb;
(2)
Place the property of another in serious danger of being destroyed or damaged;
(3)
Use fighting words directed toward another, who becomes outraged, and thus create turmoil;
(4)
Violently interfere with another's pursuit of a lawful occupation;
(5)
Congregate with others to halt the flow of vehicular or pedestrian traffic and refuse to clear the way when ordered by lawful authority to do so;
(6)
Fight, quarrel, or use indecent, vulgar, obscene or abusive language in or near a public place;
(7)
Act in a disorderly, tumultuous or riotous manner on the streets or any public place;
(8)
Curse or swear in or near public places;
(9)
Strike or attempt to strike another person;
(10)
Act in any manner which tends to disturb the peace and quiet of the city, or any portion of the city.
(Code 1982, § 9-1-1; Code 2000, § 54-1)
State Law reference— Disorderly conduct, O.C.G.A. § 16-11-39.
Sec. 30-2. - Persons under the influence of alcohol, drugs or other mind-altering substances.
It shall be unlawful for any person to be under the influence of any alcoholic beverages, drugs or any other mind-altering substances while on the property of the general public, or while on private property which is used by the general public such as parking lots.
(Code 1982, §§ 9-1-2, 9-1-3; Code 2000, § 54-2)
Sec. 30-3. - Discharge of weapons.
It shall be unlawful for any person other than law enforcement officers in actual discharge of their duties as such, or persons in actual defense of life, limb or property of themselves or others under their lawful protection, to discharge any sort of gun, pistol, rifle or other firearm, or BB or air or spring gun, within the corporate limits of the city, whether the same is loaded with a bullet, shot, shell, missile or a mere explosive blank cartridge, shell, or other explosive device; provided, however, that it shall be lawful for any person to discharge any firearm (including air-powered firearms) in the corporate limits of the city and upon any lands owned by the city if he first obtains permission to do so from the city council, and, in the case of lands outside the corporate limits, from the local governing authority having jurisdiction over such lands.
(Code 1982, § 9-1-6; Code 2000, § 54-3)
State Law reference— Pointing or aiming gun or pistol at another, O.C.G.A. § 16-11-102; discharge of firearm, O.C.G.A. § 16-11-103 et seq.
Sec. 30-4. - Loitering.
(a)
It shall be unlawful for any person, after first being warned by a police officer, to be in a place at a time or in a manner not usual for law-abiding individuals under circumstances that warrant a justifiable and reasonable alarm or immediate concern for the safety of persons or property in the vicinity.
(b)
Among the circumstances which may be considered in determining whether alarm is warranted is the fact that the person takes flight upon the appearance of a law enforcement officer, refuses to identify himself, or manifestly endeavors to conceal himself or any object. Unless flight by the person or other circumstances make it impracticable, a law enforcement officer shall, prior to any arrest for an offense under this section, afford the person an opportunity to dispel any alarm or immediate concern which would otherwise be warranted by requesting the person to identify himself and explain his presence and conduct. No person shall be convicted of an offense under this section if the law enforcement officer failed to comply with the foregoing procedure or if it appears at trial that the explanation given by the person was true and would have dispelled the alarm or immediate concern.
(c)
In accordance with section 1-8, violation of this section shall subject an individual to a fine not to exceed $1,000.00, or imprisonment not to exceed 180 days, or both.
(Code 2000, § 54-5; Ord. of 1-2-2001, § 1)
Secs. 30-5—30-26. - Reserved.
ARTICLE II. - MINORS
DIVISION 1. - GENERALLY

Secs. 30-27—30-55. - Reserved.
DIVISION 2. - CURFEW

Sec. 30-56. - Imposed on persons 16 years of age and under; exceptions; multiple violations reported to county.
(a)
It is unlawful for any minor 16 years of age or under to loiter, wander, stroll or play in or upon the public streets, highways, roads, alleys, parks, playgrounds or other public grounds, public places, public buildings, places of amusement, eating places, vacant lots or any place unsupervised by an adult having the lawful authority to be at such places, between the hours of 10:00 p.m. on any day and 6:00 a.m. of the following day. The provisions of this section shall not apply in the following instances:
(1)
When a minor is accompanied by his parent, guardian or other adult person having the lawful care and custody of the minor;
(2)
When the minor is on an emergency errand directed by his parent or guardian or other adult person having the lawful care and custody of such minor;
(3)
When the minor is returning directly home from a school activity, entertainment, recreational activity or dance;
(4)
When the minor is returning directly home from lawful employment that makes it necessary to be in the places referenced in subsections (a)(1) through (3) of this section during the prescribed period of time.
(5)
When the minor is attending or travelling directly to or from an activity involving the exercise of first amendment rights of free speech, freedom of assembly or free exercise of religion;
(6)
When the minor is married or has had disabilities of minority removed in accordance with law;
(7)
When the minor is engaged in travel in a motor vehicle in interstate commerce; or
(8)
When the minor is involved in an emergency (being an unforeseen combination of circumstances or the resulting state that calls for immediate action, including, but not limited to, a fire, a natural disaster, or automobile accident, or any situation requiring immediate action to prevent serious bodily injury or loss of life).
(b)
Two or more violations of this section by a minor will result in a report being forwarded to the county juvenile authorities by the police department.
(Code 1982, § 9-1-12(a); Code 2000, § 54-61)
Sec. 30-57. - Duty of parent, guardian; violations.
It shall be unlawful for the parent, guardian or other person having custody or control of any minor 16 years of age and under to permit or, by insufficient control, to allow such minor to be in or upon the public streets or any other places between the hours of 10:00 p.m. on any day and 6:00 a.m. the following day, except in circumstances set out in section 30-56(a)(1) through (5). Upon conviction of a violation of this section for the first time, the parent or guardian shall be given a warning citation. Upon further convictions, the parent or guardian shall be punished as provided in section 1-8. Each violation of this section shall constitute a separate offense.
(Code 1982, § 9-1-12(b); Code 2000, § 54-62)
Sec. 30-58. - Imposed on persons 17 years old.
It is unlawful for any person 17 years of age to loiter, wander, stroll or play in or upon the public streets, highways, roads, alleys, parks, playgrounds or other public grounds, public places, public buildings, places of amusement, eating places, vacant lots or any place unsupervised by an adult having the lawful authority to be at such places between the hours of 12:00 midnight and 6:00 a.m. on any day; and provided that the provisions of this section shall not apply in the circumstances set out in section 30-56(a)(1) through (8). Upon conviction of a violation of this section, the person shall be punished as provided in section 1-8. Each violation of this section shall constitute a separate offense.
(Code 1982, § 9-1-12(a); Code 2000, § 54-63)
Secs. 30-59—30-70. - Reserved.
ARTICLE III. - NOISE

Sec. 30-71. - Excessive, unnecessary, and unusually loud noise.
It shall be unlawful for any person to make, continue, or cause to be made or continued any excessive, unnecessary, or unusually loud noise or any noise which either annoys, disturbs, injures, or endangers the comfort, repose, health, peace, or safety of others within the city. The following acts, among others, are declared to be loud, disturbing, and unnecessary noises in violation of the ordinance from which this section derived, but said enumeration shall not be deemed to be exclusive, namely:
(1)
Horns, signaling devices, etc. The sounding of any horn or signaling device on any automobile, motorcycle, street car, or other vehicle on any street or public place within the city, except as a danger warning; the creation by means of any such signaling device of any unreasonably loud or harsh sound; and the sounding of any such device for an unnecessary and unreasonable period of time. The use of any signaling device except one operated by hand or electricity; the use of any horn, whistle, or other device operated by engine exhaust; and the use of any such signaling device when traffic is for any reason held up.
(2)
Radios, phonographs, etc. The using, operating, or permitting to be played, used, or operated any radio receiving set, musical instrument, phonograph, or other machine or device for the producing or reproducing of sound in such manner as to disturb the peace, quiet, and comfort of the neighboring inhabitants or at any time with louder volume than is necessary for convenient hearing for the person or persons who are in the room, vehicle, or chamber in which such machine or device is operated and who are voluntary listeners thereto. The operation of any such set, instrument, phonograph, machine, or device in such a manner as to be plainly audible at a distance of 50 feet from the building, structure, or vehicle in which it is located shall be prima facie evidence of a violation of this section.
(3)
Loud speakers, amplifiers for advertising. The using, operating, or permitting to be played, used, or operated of any radio receiving set, musical instrument, phonograph, loudspeaker, sound amplifier, or other machine or device for the producing or reproducing of sound which is [cast] upon the public streets for the purpose of commercial advertising or attracting the attention of the public to any building or structure.
(4)
Yelling, shouting, etc. Yelling, shouting, hooting, whistling, or singing on the public streets, particularly between the hours of 6:00 p.m. and 7:00 a.m. or at any time or place so as to annoy or disturb the quiet, comfort, or repose of persons in any office or in any dwelling, hotel, or other type of residence, or of any persons in the vicinity.
(5)
Animals, birds, etc. The keeping of any animal or bird which by causing frequent or long continued noise shall disturb the comfort or repose of any persons in the vicinity.
(6)
Steam whistles. The blowing of any locomotive steam whistle or steam whistle attached to any stationary boiler except to give notice of the time to begin or stop work or as a warning of fire or danger, or upon request of proper city authorities.
(7)
Exhausts. The discharge into the open air of the exhaust of any steam engine, stationary internal combustion engine, motor boat, or motor vehicle except through a muffler or other device which will effectively prevent loud or explosive noises therefrom.
(8)
Defect in vehicle or load. The use of any automobile, motorcycle, or vehicle so out of repair, so loaded, or in such other manner as to create loud and unnecessary grating, grinding, rattling, or other noise.
(9)
Loading, unloading, opening boxes. The creation of a loud and excessive noise in connection with loading or unloading any vehicle or the opening and destruction of bales, boxes, crates, and containers.
(10)
Construction or repairing of buildings. The erection (including excavation), demolition, alteration, or repair of any building other than between the hours of 7:00 a.m. and 6:00 p.m. except in case of urgent necessity in the interest of public health and safety, and then only with a permit from the building inspector, which permit may be granted for a period not to exceed three days or less while the emergency continues and which permit may be renewed for periods of three days or less while the emergency continues. If the building inspector should determine that the public health and safety will not be impaired by the erection, demolition, alteration, or repair of any building or the excavation of streets and highways within the hours of 6:00 p.m. and 7:00 a.m., and if he shall further determine that loss or inconvenience would result to any party in interest, he may grant permission for such work to be done within the hours of 6:00 p.m. and 7:00 a.m., upon application being made at the time the permit for the work is awarded or during the progress of the work.
(11)
Schools, courts, churches, hospitals. The creation of any excessive noise on any street adjacent to any school, institution of learning, church, or court while the same are in use, or adjacent to any hospital, which unreasonably interferes with the workings of such institution, or which disturbs or unduly annoys patients in the hospital provided conspicuous signs are displayed in such streets indicating that the same is a school, hospital, or court street.
(12)
Hawkers, peddlers. The shouting and crying of peddlers, hawkers, and vendors which disturbs the peace and quiet of the neighborhood.
(13)
Drums. The use of any drum or other instrument or device for the purpose of attracting attention by creation of noise to any performance, show, or sale.
(14)
Metal rails, pillars, and columns, transportation thereof. The transportation of rails, pillars, or columns of iron, steel, or other material, over and along streets and other public places upon carts, trays, cars, trucks, or in any other manner so loaded as to cause loud noises or as to disturb the peace and quiet of such streets or other public places.
(15)
Street railway cars, operation thereof. The causing, permitting, or continuing any excessive, unnecessary, and avoidable noise in the operation of a street railway car.
(16)
Pile drivers, hammers, etc. The operation between the hours of 6:00 p.m. and 7:00 a.m. of any pile driver, steam shovel, pneumatic hammer, derrick, steam or electric hoist, or other appliance, the use of which is attended by loud or unusual noise, except in case of urgent necessity in the interest of public health and safety, and then only with a permit from the building inspector,, which permit may be granted for a period not to exceed three days or less while the emergency continues and which permit may be renewed for periods of three days or less while the emergency continues. If the building inspector should determine that the public health and safety will not be impaired by the operation of any pile driver, steam or electric hoist, or other appliance within the hours of 6:00 p.m. and 7:00 a.m., and if he shall further determine that loss or inconvenience would result to any party in interest, he may grant permission for such work to be done within the hours of 6:00 p.m. and 7:00 a.m., upon application being made at the time the permit for the work is awarded or during the progress of the work.
(17)
Blowers. The operation of any noise-creating blower or power fan or any internal combustion engine, the operation of which causes noise due to the explosion of operating gases or fluids, unless the noise from such blower or fan is muffled and such engine is equipped with a muffler device sufficient to deaden such noise.
(Ord. No. 18-0010, § 1(Exh. A), 9-4-2018)
Sec. 30-72. - Application for special permit.
Applications for a permit for relief from the noise level designated in the ordinance from which this section derived on the basis of undue hardship may be made to the city commission. Any permit granted by the city commission hereunder shall contain all conditions upon which said permit has been granted and shall specify a reasonable time that the permit shall be effective. The city commission may grant the relief as applied for if they find:
(1)
That additional time is necessary for the applicant to alter or modify his activity or operation to comply with the ordinance from which this section derived; or
(2)
The activity, operation, or noise source will be of temporary duration, and cannot be done in a manner that would comply with other subsections of this section; and
(3)
That no other reasonable alternative is available to the applicant; and
(4)
The city commission may prescribe any conditions or requirements they deem necessary to minimize the adverse effects upon the community or the surrounding neighborhood.
(Ord. No. 18-0010, § 1(Exh. A), 9-4-2018)
Sec. 30-73. - Violation, a misdemeanor.
Any person violating any of the provisions of the ordinance from which this section derived shall be deemed guilty of a misdemeanor and upon conviction thereof shall be fined an amount not to exceed $1,000.00 and/or imprisoned in the city jail for up to 180 days. Each day such violation is committed or permitted to continue shall constitute a separate offense and shall be punishable as provided hereunder.
(Ord. No. 18-0010, § 1(Exh. A), 9-4-2018)
