Chapter 16 - INFRASTRUCTURE IMPROVEMENT TAX DISTRICTS

Sec. 16-1. - Constitutional authority.
The Mayor and Council is authorized by Ga. Const. art. IX, § II, ¶ VI to create special districts for the provision of local government services within such districts, and to levy and collect fees, assessments, and taxes within such district to pay, wholly or partially, the cost of providing such services therein.
(Ord. No. 110621-4, exh. A(32-101), 6-21-2011)
Sec. 16-2. - Declaration of policy and purpose.
The purpose of this chapter is to provide citizens of the City with a procedure for providing infrastructure for development where infrastructure does not exist or is inadequate. This chapter is adopted in order to affect the creation of infrastructure improvement tax districts to pay for such infrastructure.
(Ord. No. 110621-4, exh. A(32-102), 6-21-2011)
Sec. 16-3. - Definitions.
The following words, terms and phrases, when used in this chapter, shall have the meanings ascribed to them in this section, except where the context clearly indicates a different meaning:
Property owner includes all persons holding fee simple title according to the real estate records of the County to real property within a proposed special tax district at the time the petition for the creation of said district is submitted as provided herein. For the purpose of the petitioning of the Mayor and Council for the creation of a special tax district, the property owner shall have one vote per acre or part of an acre of parcels within a particular proposed special tax district. The acreage of parcels shall be determined by the records of the County Tax Assessors. The term "property owner" specifically excludes tenants in possession of property within the road pavement district. The term "property owner" shall include the developer of any subdivision otherwise not covered by the City's Subdivision Ordinance who has fee simple title to an existing or proposed road and has promised to dedicate said road to the City.
Special tax district is authorized pursuant to Ga. Const. art. IX, § II, ¶ VI. Special tax districts may be created in order for infrastructure to be provided in areas where service is inadequate or does not exist.
(Ord. No. 110621-4, exh. A(32-103), 6-21-2011)
Sec. 16-4. - Special tax districts created; register; responsibility for costs.
(a)
New special tax districts may be created upon the submission of proper petition and resolution of the Mayor and Council. Each special tax district so created shall be assigned a number and be designated by recorded plats showing each lot therein.
(b)
A register of special tax districts shall be maintained in the office of the City Clerk or the Clerk's designee and the office of the County Tax Commissioner. Such registers shall be available to the public for inspection upon reasonable notice to either of these offices.
(Ord. No. 110621-4, exh. A(32-104), 6-21-2011)
Sec. 16-5. - Collection and responsibility for administration.
The office designated by the City Council shall be responsible for the timely collection of taxes, fees, and assessments assessed to each infrastructure improvement tax district and shall remit such sums to the Mayor and Council in the same manner as other taxes are remitted.
(Ord. No. 110621-4, exh. A(32-105), 6-21-2011)
Sec. 16-6. - Liens created.
In addition to any other rights of collection for late or unpaid charges, the City shall have all rights available under the laws of the State for the assessment and creation of a lien upon the property of the owner receiving the service provided, together with all rights of execution, levy, foreclosure, and sale.
(Ord. No. 110621-4, exh. A(32-106), 6-21-2011)
Sec. 16-7. - Establishment of special infrastructure improvement tax district over existing or new development.
(a)
Any property owner in any area of the City may present a request for the creation of a special tax district to the City Clerk. The request shall designate the boundaries for a special tax district which shall serve the property owner presenting the request and other property owners within the geographical area. The request shall include a plat or plats showing the proposed infrastructure improvement tax district. The office of the City Clerk shall then provide a petition to be circulated by the presenter of the request among the property owners in the proposed district. At least 75 percent of the property owners within the proposed district must sign the petition for the petition to be presented to the Mayor and Council. If the proposed special tax district encompasses more than one subdivision as shown by plats filed in the public land records of the County, 75 percent of the property owners within the special tax district in each and all of the included subdivisions must sign the petition. Unless 100 percent of the property owners have signed the petition, a public hearing shall be held by the Mayor and Council after having advertised one time in the official legal organ of the County, and a sign shall be posted in the proposed road pavement district giving notice of the hearing, at least ten days before the public hearing.
(b)
The petition for the creation of the proposed special infrastructure improvement tax district must be returned to the City Clerk within 90 days of the presentment of the request. The City Clerk shall verify the signatures on the petition and that requisite number of property owners have signed said petition. Said petition must be accompanied by a certificate of title or other document that shows the public's interest in the right-of-way of a road or easements for construction and maintenance of infrastructure or a necessary document letter of commitment from the owner to convey the road or necessary easements to the City before implementation of the tax or construction of the infrastructure.
(c)
By signing the petition for the creation of a new special infrastructure improvement tax district, all petitioners within a proposed special tax district shall be deemed to have actual or constructive notice of this chapter and all the provisions contained herein as well as the request and petition for a special infrastructure improvement tax district.
(d)
All successors in interest to the property owners within a certain district at the time of the creation of said special infrastructure improvement tax district shall be deemed to have constructive notice of this chapter and the existing special tax district or request wherein the property is located due to the existence of public records containing such information.
(e)
Upon receipt of a petition as provided herein and after a public hearing, if one is required, the Mayor and Council shall take under consideration the establishment of the requested special infrastructure improvement tax district. The Mayor and Council, in its sole discretion, may vote to create one or more of such districts based upon all of the evidence presented to the Mayor and Council. Nothing contained herein shall create any right by any property owner to the creation of such districts. The creation of one or more of such districts shall not generate a precedent or obligation on the Mayor and Council to approve future requests for a special infrastructure improvement tax district; rather, each proposed district shall be considered based on the totality of the evidence regarding each respective district. The decision of the Mayor and Council, in the exercise of its discretion, shall be final.
(f)
The decision of the Mayor and Council to create special infrastructure improvement tax districts shall be evidenced by resolutions adopted at a regular or special meeting of the Mayor and Council.
(g)
No property in a proposed special infrastructure improvement tax district may be exempt. If, after the establishment of a special infrastructure improvement tax district, the greater of two acres or two percent of the total acreage shall become exempt, the special infrastructure improvement tax district shall be dissolved.
(h)
Any special tax district established hereunder shall be dissolved the sooner of ten years from the date established or the time at which the cost of the infrastructure improvements has been fully paid.
(i)
No property may be included in a special infrastructure improvement tax district if property taxes are outstanding or on which any tax liens exist.
(j)
Additional property may be added to an existing special tax district under the same process and requirement for creation of the special tax district.
(Ord. No. 110621-4, exh. A(32-108), 6-21-2011)
Sec. 16-8. - Payments.
The resolution adopted by the Mayor and Council establishing a special infrastructure improvement tax district may provide that the City will pay up to 45 percent of the ad valorem property taxes collected in the special infrastructure improvement tax district toward the cost of infrastructure dedicated to the City which lies within easements or right-of-way dedicated to the City. The petitioner or its successors in interest shall certify to the City, in writing, under oath, the cost of such infrastructure and may receive payments during the life of the special infrastructure improvement tax district as provided for in Section 16-7(h).
(Ord. No. 110621-4, exh. A(32-109), 6-21-2011)
Sec. 16-9. - Federal, State laws to prevail.
If any provision of this chapter is in conflict with any State or federal law, or with any rule, regulation, or any order of any agency of the State or federal agency having jurisdiction of the subject matter of this chapter, it is hereby deemed to the intention of the Mayor and Council that the State or federal law or rule, regulation, or order shall prevail be that the remaining portion of this chapter shall be deemed to be of full force or effect.
(Ord. No. 110621-4, exh. A(32-110), 6-21-2011)
Sec. 16-10. - Verification of status required.
(a)
Any applicant for a public benefit listed in Subsection (b) of this section shall execute an Affidavit Verifying Status for City Public Benefit Application provided by the City Clerk.
(b)
Public benefits for which the affidavit required by Subsection (a) of this section must be provided include the following:
(1)
Employment benefits;
(2)
Business or occupational licenses, which shall include any license or certification issued by the City;
(3)
Contracts;
(4)
Any other circumstances whereby a person receives City funds.
(c)
The Mayor is authorized to enter into a Memorandum of Agreement with the Systematic Alien Verification for Entitlements (SAVE) Program or any successor program or agency to allow the City to comply with the requirements of local, State and federal laws or regulations regarding a person's lawful presence in the United States, as such laws or regulations now exist or may exist in the future.
(Ord. No. 10216-2, § 1(32-114), 2-16-2010)
