Chapter 12 - ENVIRONMENT AND NATURAL RESOURCES
ARTICLE I. - IN GENERAL

Secs. 12-1—12-18. - Reserved.
ARTICLE II. - TREES AND TREE CARE STANDARDS

Sec. 12-19. - Purpose.
To enhance the quality of life and the present and future health, safety, and welfare of all citizens, to enhance property values, and to ensure proper planting and care of trees on public property, the City Council herein establishes a Tree Committee to provide recommendations to the Mayor and City Council, establishes practices governing the planting and care of trees on public property, and makes provision for the emergency removal of trees on private property under certain conditions.
(Ord. No. O-20-04, § 1, 9-15-2020)
Sec. 12-20. - Definitions.
The following words, terms and phrases, when used in this article, shall have the meanings ascribed to them in this section, except where the context clearly indicates a different meaning:
Damage means any injury to or destruction of a tree, including, but not limited to, uprooting; severance of all or part the root system or main trunk; storage of material on or compaction of surrounding soil; a substantial change in the natural grade above a root system or around a trunk; surrounding the tree with impervious paving materials; or any trauma caused by accident or collision.
Nuisance means any tree, or limb thereof, that has an infectious disease or insect; is dead or dying; obstructs the view of traffic signs or the free passage of pedestrians or vehicles; or threatens public health, safety and welfare.
Parkway means the area along a public street between the curb and the sidewalk; or if there is no curb or sidewalk, the unpaved portion of the area between the street right-of way line and the paved portion of the street or alley.
Public property means all grounds and rights-of-way (ROWs) owned or maintained by the City.
Public tree means any tree or woody vegetation on city-owned or city-maintained property or rights-of-way.
Top ortopping means the non-standard practice of cutting back of limbs to stubs within a tree's crown to such a degree as to remove the normal canopy and disfigure the tree.
(Ord. No. O-20-04, § 2, 9-15-2020)
Sec. 12-21. - Creation of Tree Committee.
(a)
Committee structure and powers. The Tree Committee will consist of the Director of the Public Works Department and seven individual residents of the City appointed and confirmed by the Mayor and City Council. Except for the Director of Public Works, each individual member of the Tree Committee shall serve for a term lasting two years. Any member of the Tree Committee may be reappointed and confirmed by the Mayor and City Council. The Tree Committee shall provide recommendations to the Mayor and City Council relative to the planting, pruning, maintenance and removal of trees and wooded plants growing in or upon all municipal streets, rights-of-way, City parks, and other public property. The Tree Committee shall be authorized to adopt any and all rules of procedure and proceedings necessary to carry out its mission and purpose. In emergency situations, the Mayor is authorized to instruct the pruning or removal of a tree that is an immediate danger to the public in the Mayor's opinion.
(b)
Coordination among City departments. All City departments will coordinate as necessary with the Tree Committee and will provide information as required to ensure the Tree Committee can make informed decisions and recommendations, specifically as it relates to streets, alleys, rights-of-way, drainage, easements and other public properties not under direct jurisdiction of the directors.
(Ord. No. O-20-04, § 3, 9-15-2020; Ord. No. O-21-01, § 1, 2-16-2021)
Sec. 12-22. - Tree planting and care standards.
(a)
Conformance to maintenance standards. All planting and maintenance of public trees shall conform to the American National Standards Institute (ANSI) A-300 "Standards for Tree Care Operations" and shall follow all tree care Best Management Practices (BMPs) published by the International Society of Arboriculture.
(b)
Requirements of franchise utility companies. The maintenance of public trees for utility clearance shall conform to all applicable utility industry standards.
(c)
Tree species list. The Tree Committee shall develop and maintain an official list of desirable tree species, to be approved by the Mayor and City Council, for planting on public property in two size classes: ornamental (20 feet or less in height at maturity) and shade (greater than 20 feet at maturity). Only trees from this approved list may be planted without written approval from the directors. The approved list of trees is below:
(1)
Small trees. Crepe Myrtle, Dogwood, Cherry blossom, Japanese Maple.
(2)
Large trees. Sugar Maple, Red Oak, October Glory, Poplar.
(d)
Planting distances. The Tree Committee shall develop and maintain an official set of spacing requirements for the planting of trees on public property. No tree may be planted within the visibility triangle of a street intersection or within ten feet of a fire hydrant.
(e)
Planting trees under electric utility lines. Only trees listed as ornamental trees on the official City tree species list may be planted under or within 15 lateral feet of any overhead utility wire.
(f)
Protection of public trees during construction. Any person, firm, corporation, or City department performing construction near any public tree must employ appropriate measures to protect the tree, including, but not limited to, placing barriers around the tree to prevent damage.
(Ord. No. O-20-04, § 4, 9-15-2020)
Sec. 12-23. - Prohibition against harming public trees.
(a)
It shall be unlawful for any person, firm or corporation to damage, remove, or cause the damage or removal of a tree on public property without written permission from the City.
(b)
It shall be unlawful for any person, firm or corporation to attach any cable, wire or signs or any other object to any street, park, or public tree.
(c)
It shall be unlawful for any person, firm or corporation to top any public tree. Trees severely damaged by storms or other causes, where best pruning practices are impractical, may be exempted from this provision at the determination of the directors.
(Ord. No. O-20-04, § 5, 9-15-2020)
Sec. 12-24. - Adjacent owner responsibility.
(a)
The owner of land adjacent to any City street or highway, when acting within the provisions of this article, may plant and maintain trees in the adjacent parkway area. Property owners are responsible for the reasonable and routine maintenance of trees and other landscaping in the adjacent parkway area.
(b)
No property owner shall allow a tree, or other plant growing on the owner's property or within the adjacent parkway to obstruct or interfere with pedestrians or the view of drivers, thereby creating a hazard. If an obstruction persists, the directors shall notify the property owner to prune or remove the tree or plant. If the owner fails to comply with the notice, the City may undertake the necessary work and charge the cost to the property owner.
(Ord. No. O-20-04, § 6, 9-15-2020)
Sec. 12-25. - Certain trees declared a nuisance.
(a)
Any tree, or limb thereof, on private property determined by the City to have contracted a lethal, communicable disease or insect; to be dead or dying; to obstruct the view of traffic signs or the free passage of pedestrians or vehicles; or that threatens public health, safety, and welfare is declared a nuisance and the City may require its treatment or removal.
(b)
Private property owners have the duty, at their own expense, to remove or treat nuisance trees on their property. The City may remove such trees at the owner's expense if the owner does not comply with treatment and/or removal as specified by the City within the written notification period.
(Ord. No. O-20-04, § 7, 9-15-2020)
Sec. 12-26. - Violations and penalty.
Any person, firm or corporation violating any provision of this article shall be deemed guilty of a misdemeanor and, upon issuance of a citation and conviction in the Municipal Court, shall be subject to a fine not to exceed $500.00 for each offense.
(Ord. No. O-20-04, § 8, 9-15-2020)
Sec. 12-27. - Appeals.
Appeals from decisions of the Municipal Court shall be taken to the County Superior Court or State Court in the manner provided for appeals under State law.
(Ord. No. O-20-04, § 9, 9-15-2020)
