ARTICLE V. - REGULATIONS
DIVISION 1. - GENERALLY

Sec. 4-249. - Place of sale; delivery of goods.
No retail dealer shall sell or deliver any distilled spirits to any person, except in the retailer dealer's place of business. A retail dealer shall be permitted to load purchased goods in a customer's vehicle when the sale physically takes place and monies have been exchanged inside the place of business. Curb service-type sales and sales to customers in vehicles parked in the parking area of the place of business are prohibited.
Sec. 4-250. - Adding to or refilling original containers and misrepresenting contents prohibited.
It shall be unlawful for any person to add to the contents of a bottle or to refill empty bottles or in any other manner to misrepresent the quantity, quality or brand name of any alcoholic beverages.
State law reference— Adulteration or misbranding of alcoholic beverages, O.C.G.A. § 51-1-24.
Sec. 4-251. - Prohibited locations.
In addition to other location restrictions provided in this chapter, it shall be unlawful to grant a license for the sale of alcoholic beverages within the following areas in the town:
(1)
Any residential zoning district.
(2)
A measured distance of 300 feet of any girl's club, boy's club, YMCA, community center, Salvation Army Center, public park or other public playground or recreational facility owned or operated by the town.
(3)
A measured distance of 300 feet of any alcoholic treatment center owned or operated by the state or any local governing authority.
(4)
A measured distance of 300 feet of any church, school ground or college campus.
(5)
A measured distance of 300 feet from any public park.
State law reference— Similar provisions, O.C.G.A. § 3-3-21.
Sec. 4-252. - Hours for sale; employee presence permitted for cleaning and stocking.
(a)
It shall be unlawful for any person to sell, give away, offer for sale, or in any manner disperse or deliver any alcoholic beverages by the package within the corporate limits of the town during the following time periods:
(1)
Between the hours of 11:00 p.m. until 9:00 a.m. each and every day.
(2)
Between the hours of 11:00 p.m. on each and every Saturday until 9:00 a.m. on the following Monday.
(3)
From 11:00 p.m. on December 24 (Christmas Eve) until 9:00 a.m. on the day following Christmas (December 26) of each year.
(4)
From 11:00 p.m. on the Wednesday before Thanksgiving until 9:00 a.m. on the Friday following Thanksgiving Day each year.
(b)
It is permitted for authorized employees who have been issued an employee permit pursuant to this chapter to be in the licenses premises for a period of not more than one hour before opening and one-half hour after closing for the purpose of stocking of products, cleaning, accounting, and related activities associated with the conduct of the business. There shall be no persons within the licensed premises except as provided in this section including, but not limited to, owners, managers, employees, and patrons.
Sec. 4-253. - Sales on election days.
Pursuant to the provisions of O.C.G.A. § 3-3-20, the sale of alcoholic beverages shall be permitted on election days; provided, however, that it shall nonetheless be unlawful for any person to sell alcoholic beverages and within 250 feet of any polling place or of the outer edge of any building within which such polling place is established on primary or election days.
State law reference— Sale of alcoholic beverages on Sunday, O.C.G.A. § 3-3-7; Sale of alcoholic beverages on Sundays and election days generally, O.C.G.A. § 3-3-20; Sunday sales by farm wineries, O.C.G.A. § 3-6-21.2; Sunday sales of distilled spirits by private clubs, O.C.G.A. § 3-7-2.
Sec. 4-254. - Unobstructed view required.
No screen, partition or other obstruction which prevents a clear view into the interior of a retail outlet from the street, nor any booth within, shall be permitted.
Sec. 4-255. - Posting of price lists.
Each retail outlet shall post at least four copies of its complete price list for alcoholic beverages, or in lieu thereof, place a price on each bottle for sale.
Sec. 4-256. - Products offered for sale in licensed establishments.
No products other than the alcoholic beverages for which a retail package establishment is licensed shall be sold on the licensed premises other than tobacco products, mixers or other nonalcoholic beverages commonly used to dilute distilled spirits, ice to be sold in sealed containers only and not to be opened on the licensed premises, and disposable cups, and lottery tickets if and as permitted by state law. The sale of any other products in the licensed premises shall require that the licensee procure a separate business license as permitted under chapter 12.
Sec. 4-257. - Consumption on premises and open containers prohibited.
It shall be unlawful for any person to drink or have in his possession an open container of any alcoholic beverage:
(1)
On any premises licensed under this chapter for retail sale of alcoholic beverages;
(2)
On any public street, sidewalk, park or other public place within the town, or upon or within any motor vehicle on the streets, sidewalks, parks and public places of the town unless said person is at or on the premises of an establishment with a license issued pursuant to this article; or
(3)
While on private property, open to public view, without the express permission of the owner, agent or person in lawful possession thereof.
State law reference— Similar provision, O.C.G.A. § 3-3-26.
Sec. 4-258. - Purchase by or sales to underage persons prohibited.
(a)
No holder of any alcoholic beverage license or his agents, employees, or representatives shall knowingly furnish, sell, or offer for sale any alcoholic beverages to a person under 21 years of age; provided, however, that this section shall not apply with respect to the sale of alcoholic beverages to a person when such person has furnished proper identification showing that the person to whom the alcoholic beverages are being sold is 21 years of age or older.
(b)
This section shall not apply to alcoholic beverages purchased for medical purposes pursuant to a prescription of a physician duly authorized to practice medicine in the state or alcoholic beverages are purchased for consumption at a religious ceremony.
(c)
All licensees shall post in the most conspicuous place in their establishments a sign printed in letters at least four inches high reading as follows:
"SALE OF ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES TO MINORS STRICTLY PROHIBITED."
(d)
It shall be unlawful for any minor to falsely misrepresent his age in any manner whatsoever.
(e)
It shall be unlawful for any minor to drink or possess any alcoholic beverages, except as stated in subsection (b) of this section, or except as provided in O.C.G.A. § 3-3-23.
(f)
The municipal court, in accordance with O.C.G.A. § 36-32-10, is granted jurisdiction to try and dispose of a first offense violation of O.C.G.A. § 3-3-23, relating to furnishing alcoholic beverages to, and purchase and possession of alcoholic beverages by, a person under 21 years of age, if the offense occurred within the corporate limits of the town. O.C.G.A. § 36-32-10 is incorporated herein by reference.
State law reference— Sale to underage persons prohibited, O.C.G.A. § 3-3-23, O.C.G.A. § 3-3-23.1; restrictions on employment of underage persons, O.C.G.A. § 3-3-24.
Sec. 4-259. - Sale to intoxicated persons prohibited.
Sale of alcoholic beverages to any person who is intoxicated or already under the influence of any alcoholic beverages is prohibited.
State law reference— Similar provision, O.C.G.A. § 3-3-22.
Sec. 4-260. - Disorderly conduct and obscenity prohibited.
It shall be unlawful for the holder of any license issued under the provisions of this chapter to permit any disturbance of the peace or obscenity or any lewd, immoral or improper entertainment, conduct or practices in the licensed premises or to operate the business carried on in the licensed premises in such manner as to constitute a nuisance. It shall be unlawful for any licensee, or licensee's agent or employee to fail to report to the police department any disturbance that occurs immediately outside the licensed premises or in the parking facilities, of which any of them have knowledge.
Sec. 4-261. - Refusal to admit law enforcement officers.
It shall be unlawful to refuse to grant admission to any licensed premises at any time upon the verbal request of any law enforcement officer who displays proper identification for the purpose of inspecting the premises to ensure compliance with this chapter. It shall be unlawful to refuse to open any cabinet, storage room or any other area within the licensed premises.
Sec. 4-262. - Public drunkenness.
It shall be unlawful for any person to be and appear in an intoxicated condition in any public place or within the curtilage of any private residence not his own other than by invitation of the owner or lawful occupant, when such condition of intoxication is made manifest by boisterousness, or by indecent condition or act, or by vulgar, profane, loud or unbecoming language.
State law reference— Similar provision, O.C.G.A. § 16-11-41.
Sec. 4-263. - Gambling prohibited.
No licensee hereunder shall knowingly permit any gambling, betting, games of chance, punchboards, slot machines, illegal lottery, or other device for the hazarding of any money or other thing of value on the licensed premises.
Sec. 4-264. - Inspections.
Any officials that may be authorized by the town council including, but not by way of limitation, the town's police officers or other law enforcement officers, and code enforcement officers, shall have the authority to inspect the outlet and premises licensed under this chapter during the hours when the outlet is open for business. These inspections shall be made for the purpose of verifying compliance with the requirements of this chapter and state law. This section is not intended to limit the authority of any other city, county, state, or federal officials to conduct inspections authorized by other provisions of law.
Sec. 4-265. - Zoning restrictions.
A license, to be granted hereunder, for retail sale of alcoholic beverages may be granted in areas of the town properly zoned for such sales and not otherwise prohibited by this Code.
Sec. 4-266. - Solicitation of purchases prohibited.
No licensee shall permit, encourage or induce any employee or agent to solicit the purchase by a patron of any drink, whether alcoholic or nonalcoholic; or try to solicit money to insure that patrons must participate in the consumption of such beverages through promotions, discounts, or contests. Further, no licensee shall offer any discount or other incentive solely on the frequency in which a patron purchases beverages from the premises.
Sec. 4-267. - Excessive noise prohibited.
No retail consumption licensee shall permit excessive noise that can create a breach of the peace, a disturbance, or otherwise may be distinctly heard beyond the physical boundaries of the property upon which the license is granted.
Sec. 4-268. - Brown-bagging practices prohibited.
No patron of any establishment shall be permitted to bring any form of beer, liquor or other alcoholic beverage, onto the premises in any cooler, container, or other carrying device. Thus, the practice of "brown bagging" or "bring your own bottle" (BYOB) shall, under no circumstances, be allowed within the corporate limits of the town.
Secs. 4-269—4-299. - Reserved.
DIVISION 2. - MALT BEVERAGES AND WINE

Secs. 4-300—4-316. - Reserved.
DIVISION 3. - DISTILLED LIQUOR

Sec. 4-317. - Restrictions on purchase and storage of distilled liquor.
(a)
No holder of a license issued pursuant to this article shall buy or arrange to buy or in any way effect the transfer of any distilled spirits to its business location, except from a licensed wholesaler. There shall be no sale of transfer of alcoholic beverages from one licensed retail dealer to another.
(b)
A holder of a package sales license issued pursuant to this article shall keep no inventory or stock of distilled spirits at any place except the licensed place of business and, within the licensed place of business, the storage area for distilled spirits shall be immediately adjacent to the retail area. Furthermore, no licensee hereunder shall enter into any type of arrangements whereby any type of contract, agreement, or other arrangement whereby distilled spirits ordered by said licensee are stored by a licensed wholesaler.
