Chapter 70 - SOLID WASTE[1]
Footnotes:
--- (1) ---
Cross reference— Buildings and building regulations, ch. 18; environment, ch. 42; health and sanitation, ch. 58; utilities, ch. 86.

ARTICLE I. - IN GENERAL

Sec. 70-1. - Definitions.
As used in this chapter, the words below shall have the following meanings:
Ashes means residue from fires used for cooking and for heating buildings.
Container means any receptacle designed or used for the depositing of garbage, refuse, trash, ashes, or recyclable materials.
Dumpster, recyclable means a receptacle, designed for the depositing of recyclable material, made of any material and having a capacity of two cubic yards or more.
Dumpster, refuse means a receptacle designed for the depositing of garbage, refuse, trash, ashes or reusable materials, made of any material and having a capacity of two cubic yards or more.
Garbage means wastes resulting from the handling, preparation, cooking and consumption of food; wastes from the handling, storage and sale of produce.
Recyclable material means material that is capable of being reused or returned to use in the form of a raw material.
Refuse means combustible trash, including, but not limited to, paper, cartons, boxes, barrels, wood, excelsior, tree branches, yard trimmings, wood furniture, bedding; noncombustible trash, including, but not limited to, metals, tin cans, metal furniture, dirt, small quantities of rock and pieces of concrete, glass, crockery, other mineral waste; street rubbish, including, but not limited to, street sweepings, dirt, leaves, catchbasin dirt, contents of litter receptacles. Provided, refuse shall not include earth and wastes from building operations, nor shall it include solid wastes resulting from industrial processes and manufacturing operations.
Reusable material means items or materials that can be reused with little or no value added.
(Ord. No. 0-2-93, § 14-1, 3-15-93)
Cross reference— Definitions generally, § 1-2.
Sec. 70-2. - Administrative regulation.
The city manager of the City of Fayetteville shall not issue a business license or certificate of occupancy to any person, firm, or corporation which has not complied with the requirements of this chapter. The violation, noncompliance, or other violation of an administrative order issued by the city manager, under this chapter, will be grounds for suspension or revocation of business licenses pursuant to article III of chapter 46.
(Ord. No. 0-4-90, 3-19-90; Ord. No. 0-37-95, § 14-16, 10-16-95)
Sec. 70-3. - Penalty.
Any person, firm, or corporation violating any of the provisions of this chapter shall, upon conviction thereof, be fined up to $200.00 for each offense and a separate offense shall be deemed committed on each day during or on which a violation continues.
(Ord. No. 0-2-93, § 14-15, 3-15-93)
Sec. 70-4. - Wind-blown refuse.
It shall be unlawful to cause or permit to accumulate any dust, ashes, or trash of such a material capable of being blown away by the wind anywhere in the city, except in a covered container.
(Ord. No. 0-2-93, § 14-4, 3-15-93)
Sec. 70-5. - Depositing garbage on the street.
It shall be unlawful to deposit or permit to fall from any vehicle any garbage, refuse or ashes on any public street, parking area, or alley in the city; provided, that this section shall not be construed to prohibit temporarily placing garbage, refuse, trash or ashes or recyclable materials in a container at an approved collection point complying with the provisions of this chapter preparatory to having such material collected and disposed of in the manner provided herein.
(Ord. No. 0-2-93, § 14-5, 3-15-93)
Secs. 70-6—70-30. - Reserved.
ARTICLE II. - COLLECTION AND DISPOSAL

Sec. 70-31. - Supervision by city manager.
The city manager shall be empowered to inspect the manner in which all garbage, refuse or ashes within the city are accumulated or disposed for compliance with this chapter. The city manager is empowered to order the discontinuance of actions in violation of this chapter or take any other action authorized to ensure compliance with or to prevent violation of this chapter.
(Ord. No. 0-37-95, § 14-17, 10-16-95)
Sec. 70-32. - Pickup hours regulated.
It shall be unlawful for any commercial garbage service to pick up trash containers, dumpsters, or other such containers between the hours of 9:00 p.m. and 7:00 a.m., except in the case of a bona fide emergency, the nature of which has been communicated to the city manager of the City of Fayetteville at the time of said emergency.
(Ord. No. 0-2-93, § 14-12, 3-15-93)
Sec. 70-33. - Owner and operator of premises to maintain container site.
The owner and/or the person in charge of the premises for which a container is permitted shall, at all times, maintain the premises in a high state of police, free and clear of litter, debris, and trash.
(Ord. No. 0-2-93, § 14-14, 3-15-93)
Sec. 70-34. - Garbage and recycling collection.
All residents of the City of Fayetteville shall participate in the garbage and recycling collection by using the City of Fayetteville contractor. All residents shall pay the monthly fee charged by the city for this services.
(Ord. No. 0-14-93, § 14-2, 6-7-93)
Sec. 70-35. - Uncovered garbage.
It shall be unlawful to place or permit to remain anywhere in the city any garbage, or other material subject to decay, other than leaves or grass, except in a tightly covered container.
(Ord. No. 0-2-93, § 14-3, 3-15-93)
Sec. 70-36. - Consent of owner.
It shall be unlawful to dump or place any garbage, refuse or ashes on any premises in the city without the consent of the owner of such premises.
(Ord. No. 0-2-93, § 14-6, 3-15-93)
Sec. 70-37. - Disposal.
It shall be unlawful to dispose of any garbage, refuse, trash or ashes anywhere in the city except in an incinerator, or disposal device, properly constructed and operated or in a lawfully established garbage or refuse dump. Such materials not so properly disposed of shall be placed in containers for collection by the city or licensed trash and garbage collection service as hereinafter described.
(Ord. No. 0-2-93, § 14-7, 3-15-93)
Sec. 70-38. - Accumulation of material treated as disposed.
Where a party claims the accumulation of refuse, ashes, dust, or wastes from building operations is not a "disposal" within the section 70-37 meaning, the allowance of the accumulation for a period of more than seven days without removal will presumptively cause the accumulation to come within the meaning of section 70-37.
(Ord. No. 0-37-95, § 14-8, 10-16-95)
Sec. 70-39. - Screening of dumpsters.
Business, commercial, educational, and other nonresidential buildings and any multifamily residential building for which the use of a commercial or multi-user dumpster has been authorized by the City of Fayetteville shall screen any portion of a dumpster which is visible to an average person from a public street, parking lot, or residential building, which is within 300 feet of such dumpster. Said screening shall be constructed of building or fencing materials that are of sufficient opacity to conceal the dumpster from view. Evergreen shrubs, or evergreen trees may be used for screening of public-use, recyclable dumpsters placed by governmental entities or nonprofit organizations recognized by the Internal Revenue Service as exempt from federal income taxation, when a plan for such screening has been approved in writing by the city manager or his designee. Individual lots zoned M-1 or M-2 are exempt from the screening requirements, if the properties on each side and in front or across the street from the front of said lots are also zoned M-1 or M-2.
(Ord. No. 0-2-93, § 14-9, 3-15-93)
Sec. 70-40. - Restaurant containers.
Restaurant containers shall be placed on a concrete pad or other nonabsorbent surface material, in accordance with Fayette County Health Department requirements. Each restaurant shall have its own container or share a container with another restaurant, but shall not share a container with another type of business.
(Ord. No. 0-2-93, § 14-10, 3-15-93)
Sec. 70-41. - Certain matters not to be placed in containers.
Dead animals, feces, explosives, dangerous and corrosive materials, clothing taken from persons with infectious diseases, heavy metals, or any substance deemed to be a hazardous or toxic waste by any agency of the state or federal government shall not be placed in any trash or garbage receptacle. Produce, meats, poultry, and food preparation oils shall be placed in sealed bags prior to being placed in any trash or garbage receptacle in such a manner as to minimize noxious or offensive odor emanating therefrom.
(Ord. No. 0-2-93, § 14-11, 3-15-93)
Sec. 70-42. - Doors and lids to be kept closed.
Except when trash or garbage is being loaded into containers, or pickup of the same is being effected, all doors for screening, doors or lids of containers shall be kept closed.
(Ord. No. 0-2-93, § 14-13, 3-15-93)
Sec. 70-43. - Removal of containers.
On the customer's designated day for collection, customers shall place their container at curbside in front of customer's residence or in a designated area. Containers shall be placed approximately two to four feet from the edge of the roadway, but not so as to pose a physical or visual obstruction to motorists. Where there is insufficient right-of-way adjacent to the roadway, or other topographical difficulties, customers shall place their container in a safe location that does not cause visual or physical obstruction to motorists or pedestrians. All containers shall be removed from the curbside and returned to the customer's residence, free of view from the public right-of-way, by no later than 7:00 a.m. on the day following service.
(Ord. No. 0-38-05, § 1, 11-17-05)
Secs. 70-44—70-70. - Reserved.
ARTICLE III. - YARD TRIMMINGS DISPOSAL REGULATIONS

Sec. 70-71. - Definitions.
Commercial solid waste means all types of solid waste generated by stores, offices, restaurants, warehouses and other nonmanufacturing activities, excluding residential and industrial wastes.
Composting means the controlled biological decomposition of organic matter into a stable, odor-free humus.
Leachate collection system means a system at a landfill for collection of the leachate which may percolate through the waste and into the soils surrounding the landfill.
Municipal solid waste means any solid waste derived from households, including garbage, trash and sanitary waste in septic tanks, and includes solid waste from single-family and multifamily residences, hotels and motels, bunkhouses, campgrounds, picnic grounds, and day use recreation areas. The term includes yard trimmings and commercial solid waste but does not include solid waste from mining, agricultural or silvicultural operations or industrial processes or operations.
Municipal solid waste disposal facility means any facility or location where the final deposition of any amount of municipal solid waste occurs, whether or not mixed with or including commercial or industrial solid waste, including but not limited to municipal solid waste landfills.
Municipal solid waste landfill means a disposal facility where any amount of municipal solid waste, whether or not mixed with or including commercial waste, industrial waste, nonhazardous sludges or small quantity generator hazardous waste, is disposed of by means of placing an approved cover thereon.
Yard trimmings means leaves, brush, grass clippings, shrub and tree prunings, discarded Christmas trees, nursery and greenhouse vegetative residuals, and vegetative matter resulting from landscaping development and maintenance, other than mining, agricultural and silvicultural operations.
(Ord. No. 0-53-96, § 1, 11-18-96)
Sec. 70-72. - Placement and disposal of yard trimmings; prohibitions.
(a)
It shall be unlawful to place or mix yard trimmings with municipal waste within the City of Fayetteville.
(b)
Yard trimmings shall not be disposed at any municipal solid waste disposal facility having a liner and leachate collection system or requiring vertical expansion located within the City of Fayetteville.
(Ord. No. 0-53-96, § 2, 11-18-96)
Sec. 70-73. - Sorting, storing, composting and collecting yard trimmings.
Yard trimmings shall be sorted and stored in the following manner:
(1)
Composted on the site where the material was grown, followed by incorporation of the finished compost into the soil at that site; or
(2)
Chipping woody material on the site where such material was generated; or
(3)
Collecting yard trimmings and transporting them to another site to be chipped or composted. A city-sponsored yard waste collection program may be utilized if one exists.
(Ord. No. 0-53-96, § 3, 11-18-96)
