Chapter 34 - COURTS[1]
Footnotes:
--- (1) ---
Cross reference— Administration, ch. 2.

ARTICLE I. - IN GENERAL

Secs. 34-1—34-25. - Reserved.
ARTICLE II. - MUNICIPAL COURT[2]

Footnotes:
--- (2) ---
Cross reference— Clerk of municipal court, § 2-99.

Sec. 34-26. - Rules of evidence, procedure and practice.
The rules of evidence, procedure and practice in the municipal court shall conform as nearly as practicable to the rules in the superior court of the state.
(Ord. No. 0-23-96, § 2-8, 5-20-96)
Sec. 34-27. - Summonses.
(a)
Issuance, by whom served. Trials in the municipal court for violations of municipal ordinances shall be had upon summons issued the clerk of the court, a law enforcement officer of the city, or such other city official designated by the city council, in the name of the recorder judge, and a copy thereof delivered to the accused.
(b)
Contents. Said summonses shall be addressed to the accused requiring such accused to appear before the municipal court, and shall name the offense charges, and the time and place of trial.
(c)
Service, return; arrest of accused, requiring bond. When the officer delivers a copy of the summons to the accused, he shall make an entry of the original summons, stating the time of service, and shall sign and date said entry. The judge may require a reasonable appearance bond with adequate security, payable to the city. If the accused fails or refuses to give such bond, he may be confined in the jail until the trial. The judge, or clerk, or the chief of police or any police officer may take such bond, or accept sufficient collateral in lieu of bond, conditioned upon the appearance of the accused at the time and, taking such bond, or accepting such collateral, shall make an entry of the same on the original summons, stating the amount of collateral, if any.
(Ord. No. 0-23-96, § 2-9, 5-20-96)
Sec. 34-28. - Disposition, forfeiture and collection of bonds.
(a)
Disposition. The judge or the officer taking such bond, or accepting said collateral, shall immediately return the bond or collateral to the clerk, who shall enter the same upon the docket. All collateral received by the clerk shall be kept as a separate fund, known as the collateral fund, and complete records shall be kept thereof.
(b)
Forfeiture of collateral bonds. Whenever any person who has deposited collateral to secure his appearance at court fails to appear at the time and place of trial, upon call of the case for trial, the court shall proceed to have said bond forfeited by calling the name of the person accused at least three times in open court, and announcing in open court that the collateral is forfeited. The clerk shall thereupon enter upon the docket opposite said case: "Collateral forfeited in open court, this _____ day of ________." The clerk shall thereupon draw a check for the forfeiture on the collateral fund, payable to the city, stating the case on the check, and make appropriate records thereof.
(c)
Forfeiture of personal or corporate bond. Whenever any person who has given bond with personal or corporate security for this appearance at court, fails to appear at the time and place of trial, upon the call of the case for trial, the court shall proceed to forfeit said bond by calling the name of the person accused and his bondsmen at least three times each in open court and announcing in open court that the bond is forfeited. The clerk shall thereupon enter on the bond, "Forfeited in open court, this _____ day of ________." The clerk shall issue an execution instanter against the principal or security, as provided by law. When the amount of said bond is collected, it shall be deposited in the current expense fund of the city.
(Ord. No. 0-23-96, § 2-10, 5-20-96)
