Chapter 1 - GENERAL PROVISIONS

Sec. 1-1. - Code designated and cited.
The ordinances embraced in the following chapters and sections shall constitute and be designated "Code of Ordinances, City of Fayetteville, Georgia," and may be so cited.
(Ord. No. 0-27-96, § 1-1, 5-20-96)
Sec. 1-2. - Rules of construction.
In the construction of this Code, and of all ordinances, the following rules shall be observed, unless such construction would be inconsistent with the manifest intent of the governing body:
City. The words "the city" or "this city" shall mean the City of Fayetteville, Georgia.
City council, council, governing body. The words "city council," "council," and "governing body" shall mean the city council or other lawfully constituted legislative body of the City of Fayetteville.
County. The words "the county" or "this county" shall mean the County of Fayette, Georgia.
Gender. A word importing the masculine gender only shall extend and be applied to females and to firms, partnerships and corporations as well as to males.
Number. Words used in the singular include the plural, and the plural includes the singular number.
Oath. The word "oath" shall include an affirmation in all cases in which, by law, an affirmation may be substituted for an oath, and in such cases the words "swear" and "sworn" shall be equivalent to the words "affirm" and "affirmed."
Other officials, officers, offices, etc. Whenever reference is made to officials, boards, commissions, departments, etc., by title only, i.e., "city clerk," "chief of police," etc., they shall be deemed to refer to the officials, boards, commissions and departments of this city.
Person. The word "person" shall extend and be applied to firms, partnerships, associations, organizations, trustees, receivers, and bodies politic and corporate, or any combination thereof, as well as to individuals.
Signature or subscription. Signature or subscription includes a mark when the person cannot write.
State. The words "the state" or "this state" shall mean the State of Georgia.
Street. The word "street" shall be construed to embrace streets, avenues, boulevards, roads, alleys, lanes, viaducts and all other public streets and ways in the city and shall embrace all parts thereof constituting the designated right-of-way.
(Ord. No. 0-27-96, § 1-2, 5-20-96)
Sec. 1-3. - Catchlines of sections.
The catchlines of sections of this Code printed in boldface type, italics, or otherwise, are intended as mere catchwords to indicate the contents of the sections, and shall not be deemed or taken to be titles of such sections, nor as any part of the sections, nor, unless expressly so provided, shall they be so deemed when any of such sections, including the catchlines, are amended or reenacted.
(Ord. No. 0-27-96, § 1-3, 5-20-96)
Sec. 1-4. - Effect of repeal of ordinances.
(a)
The repeal of an ordinance shall not revive any ordinance in force before or at the time the ordinance repealed took effect.
(b)
The repeal of an ordinance shall not affect any punishment or penalty incurred before the repeal took effect, nor any suit, prosecution or proceeding pending at the time of the repeal for an offense committed under the ordinance repealed.
(Ord. No. 0-27-96, § 1-4, 5-20-96)
Sec. 1-5. - Severability of parts of Code.
It is declared to be the intention of the governing body that the sections, paragraphs, sentences, clauses and phrases of this Code are severable, and if any phrase, clause, sentence, paragraph, or section of this Code shall be declared unconstitutional by the valid judgment or decree of a court of competent jurisdiction, such unconstitutionality shall not affect any of the remaining phrases, clauses, sentences, paragraphs and sections of this Code.
(Ord. No. 0-27-96, § 1-5, 5-20-96)
Sec. 1-6. - Amendment to Code; effect of new ordinances; amendatory language.
(a)
All ordinances passed subsequent to this Code of Ordinances which amend, repeal or in any way affect this Code of Ordinances, may be numbered in accordance with the numbering system of this Code and printed for inclusion therein. When subsequent ordinances repeal any chapter, section or subsection or any portion thereof, such repealed portions may be excluded from said Code by omission from reprinted pages.
(b)
Amendments to any of the provisions of this Code may be made by amending such provisions by specific reference to the section of this Code in substantially the following language: "That section _____ of the Code of Ordinances, City of Fayetteville, Georgia, is hereby amended to read as follows: (set out new provisions in full) ."
(c)
When the governing body desires to enact an ordinance of a general and permanent nature on a subject not heretofore existing in the Code, which the governing body desires to incorporate into the Code, a section in substantially the following language may be made a part of the ordinance:
"Section _____. It is the intention of the (governing body), and it is hereby ordained that the provisions of this ordinance shall become and be made a part of the Code of Ordinances, City of Fayetteville, Georgia, and the sections of this ordinance may be renumbered to accomplish such intention."
(d)
All sections, articles, chapters or provisions of this Code desired to be repealed should be specifically repealed by section or chapter number, as the case may be.
(Ord. No. 0-27-96, § 1-6, 5-20-96)
Sec. 1-7. - Altering Code.
It shall be unlawful for any person in the city to change or amend by additions or deletions, any part or portion of this Code, or to insert or delete pages or portions thereof, or to alter or tamper with such Code in any manner whatsoever, which will cause the law of the City of Fayetteville, Georgia, to be misrepresented thereby. Any person violating this section shall be punished as provided in this chapter.
(Ord. No. 0-27-96, § 1-7, 5-20-96)
Sec. 1-8. - General penalty.
Whenever in this Code, or in any secondary code adopted by reference, any act is prohibited or is made or declared to be unlawful or an offense or whenever in such Code or secondary code adopted by reference, the doing of any act is required or the failure to do any act is declared to be unlawful, where no specific penalty is provided therefor in this Code, the violation, concealing of a violation, or the harboring, assisting or protecting of a person charged with or convicted of a violation of any such provision of this Code or any secondary code adopted by reference shall be punished by a fine not exceeding $1,000.00, by sentence of imprisonment not exceeding six months, or to community service or alternative sentencing for a period not exceeding six months for each offense, or any combination thereof, in the discretion of the municipal court judge.
(Ord. No. 0-27-96, § 1-8, 5-20-96)
Sec. 1-9. - Savings clause.
No new ordinance shall be construed or held to repeal a former ordinance, whether such former ordinance is expressly repealed or not, as to any offense committed against such former ordinance or as to any act done, any penalty, forfeiture or punishment so incurred, or any right accrued or claim arising under the former ordinance, or in any way what so ever to affect any such offense or act so committed or so done, or any penalty, forfeiture or punishment so incurred or any right accrued or claim arising before the new ordinance takes effect, save only that proceedings thereafter shall conform to the ordinance in force at the time of such proceeding, so far as practicable. If any penalty, forfeiture or punishment be mitigated by any provision of a new ordinance, such provision may be, by the consent of the party affected, applied to any judgment announced after the new ordinance takes effect.
This section shall extend to all repeals, either by express words or implication, whether the repeal is in the ordinance making any new provisions upon the same subject or in any other ordinance.
(Ord. No. 0-20-05, art. I, 6-2-05)
