Chapter 1 - GENERAL PROVISIONS

Sec. 1-1. - How Code designated and cited.
The ordinances embraced in this and the following chapters shall constitute and be designated "The Code of the City of Dahlonega, Georgia," and may be so cited. This Code shall also be known as the Dahlonega Code.
State Law reference— Authority to codify ordinances, O.C.G.A. § 36-80-19.
Sec. 1-2. - Rules of construction.
The following definitions and rules shall apply to this Code unless inconsistent with the manifest intent of the city council:
Generally.
(1)
When provisions conflict, the specific prevails over the general. All provisions shall be liberally construed so that the intent of the city council may be effectuated.
(2)
Words and phrases shall be construed according to the common and approved usage of the language, but technical words, technical phrases and words and phrases that have acquired peculiar and appropriate meanings shall be construed according to such meanings.
(3)
Provisions shall be interpreted and applied so as to be the minimum requirements adopted for the promotion of the public health, safety, comfort, convenience and general welfare.
(4)
Grammatical errors shall not vitiate, and a transposition of words and clauses may be resorted to when the sentence or clause is without meaning as it stands.
As soon as possible. The term "as soon as possible" means within a reasonable time, having due regard to all the circumstances.
Charter. The term "Charter" means the Charter of the City of Dahlonega, Georgia, as now or hereafter amended.
City. The term "city" means the City of Dahlonega, Georgia.
City council orcouncil. The term "city council" or "council" means the city council of the City of Dahlonega, Georgia.
Code. The term "Code" refers to The Code of the City of Dahlonega, Georgia, as designated in section 1-1.
Computation of time. When a number of days is prescribed for the exercise of any privilege or the discharge of any duty, only the first or last day shall be counted. If the last day shall fall on Saturday or Sunday, the party having such privilege or duty shall have through the following Monday to exercise such privilege or to discharge the duty. When the last day prescribed for such action shall fall on a public or legal holiday as set forth in state law, the party having such privilege or duty shall have through the following business day to exercise such privilege or to discharge the duty. When the period of time prescribed is less than seven days, an intermediate Saturday, Sunday and legal holiday shall be excluded in the computation.
Conjunctions. In a provision involving two or more items, conditions, provisions or events, which items, conditions, provisions or events are connected by the conjunction "and," "or" or "either…or," the conjunction shall be interpreted as follows, except that the terms "and" and "or" may be interchangeable when the context so requires:
(1)
The term "and" indicates that all the connected terms, conditions, provisions or events apply.
(2)
The term "or" indicates that the connected terms, conditions, provisions or events apply singly or in any combination.
(3)
The terms "either…or" indicates that the connected terms, conditions, provisions or events apply singly but not in combination.
County. The term "county" means Lumpkin County, Georgia.
Delegation of authority. Any provision requiring a city officer or city employee or other officer to do an act or perform a duty shall be construed to authorize the officer or employee to designate, delegate and authorize subordinates to do the required act or perform the required duty.
Fees and charges. Words to the effect that a fee or charge is as established by the city mean that the fee or charge is as established by ordinance, resolution or any other lawful method.
Following. The term "following" means next after.
Gender and singular and plural. When any subject matter or person is described or referred to by terms importing the singular number or the masculine gender, several matters and persons, and females as well as males, and bodies corporate, as well as individuals, shall be deemed to be included. Whenever terms importing the plural number are used in describing or referring to any matter or persons, any single matter or person shall be deemed to be included, although distributive words may not be used.
Include, including. The term "include," "including" or any other similar term of inclusion means without limitation or restriction.
Judge. The term "judge" means the municipal judge.
May. The term "may" is to be construed as being permissive and not as being mandatory.
May not. The term "may not" has a prohibitory effect and states a prohibition.
Month. The term "month" means a calendar month.
Must. The term "must" is to be construed as being mandatory and not as being permissive.
Oath. The term "oath" shall be construed to include an affirmation in all cases in which, by law, an affirmation may be substituted for an oath, and in such cases the words "swear" and "sworn" shall be equivalent to the words "affirm" and "affirmed."
O.C.G.A., state acts. The abbreviation "O.C.G.A." means the Official Code of Georgia Annotated, as now or hereafter amended. A reference to a state act, whether by year and act number, year, act number and page, year and page or short title is a reference to such act as now or hereafter amended.
Officers, departments, etc. References to officers, departments, boards, commissions or employees are to city officers, city departments, city boards, city commissions and city employees.
Owner. The term "owner," as applied to property, means any part owner, joint owner, tenant in common, tenant in partnership, joint tenant or tenant by the entirety of the whole or part of such property.
Person. The term "person" means any human being, any governmental or political subdivision or public agency, any public or private corporation, any limited liability company, any partnership, any firm, association or other organization, any receiver, trustee, assignee, agent, or other legal representative of any of the foregoing or any other legal entity.
Personal property. The term "personal property" means money, goods, chattels, things in action, evidences of debt and energy.
Preceding, following. The terms "preceding" and "following" mean next before and next after, respectively.
Premises. The term "premises," as applied to real property, means lands and structures.
Property. The term "property" means real and personal property.
Real estate orreal property. The term "real estate" or "real property" includes lands, tenements and hereditaments and all rights thereto and interests therein.
Shall. The term "shall" is to be construed as being mandatory and not permissive.
Sidewalk. The term "sidewalk" means a strip of land in front of or on the sides of a house or lot of land, lying between the property line and the street.
Signature orsubscription. The term "signature" or "subscription" includes a mark when a person cannot write.
State. The term "state" means the State of Georgia.
Street. The term "street" shall be construed to embrace streets, avenues, boulevards, roads, alleys, lanes, viaducts and all other public highways in the city.
Tenant oroccupant. The term "tenant" or "occupant," as applied to premises, includes any person holding a written or oral lease, or who actually occupies the whole or any part of such premises, alone or with others.
Tense. The present tense of a verb includes the past and future tenses. The future tense includes the present tense.
Week. The term "week" means seven consecutive days.
Writing. The term "writing" means any form of recorded message capable of comprehension by ordinary visual means.
Year. The term "year" means a calendar year.
Sec. 1-3. - Catchlines of sections; history notes; references.
(a)
The catchlines of the several sections of this Code printed in boldface type are intended as mere catchwords to indicate the contents of the section and are not titles of such sections, or of any part of the section, nor, unless expressly so provided, shall they be so deemed when any such section, including the catchline, is amended or reenacted.
(b)
History notes that appear in this Code after sections or subsections or that otherwise appear in footnote form are provided for the convenience of the user of the Code and have no legal effect.
(c)
Editor's notes, state law references and other references that appear in this Code after sections or subsections or that otherwise appear in footnote form are provided for the convenience of the user of the Code and have no legal effect.
(d)
Unless specified otherwise, all references to chapters or sections are to chapters or sections of this Code.
Sec. 1-4. - Effect of repeal of ordinances.
(a)
The repeal of an ordinance shall not revive any ordinance in force before or at any time the ordinances repealed took effect.
(b)
The repeal of an ordinance shall not affect any punishment or penalty incurred before the repeal took effect, nor any suit, prosecution or proceeding pending at the time of the repeal, for an offense committed under the ordinance repealed.
Sec. 1-5. - Amendments to Code; effect of new ordinances; amendatory language.
(a)
All ordinances passed subsequent to this Code which amend, repeal or in any way affect this Code may be numbered in accordance with the numbering system of this Code and printed for inclusion herein. In the case of repealed chapters, sections or subsections or any part thereof, by subsequent ordinances, such repealed portions may be excluded from the Code by omission from reprinted pages affected thereby.
(b)
Amendments to any of the provisions of this Code should be made by amending such provisions by specific reference to the section number of this Code in the following language: "Chapter (article, division, subdivision, section _____ or subsection _____ (as appropriate) of The Code of the City of Dahlonega, Georgia, is hereby amended to read as follows:…." The new provisions shall then be set out in full.
(c)
In the event a new provision not heretofore existing in the Code is to be added, the following language shall be used: "The Code of the City of Dahlonega, Georgia, is hereby amended by adding a chapter (article, division, subdivision, section _____ or subsection _____, as appropriate to be numbered _____, which such provisions read as follows:…." The new provisions shall then be set out in full.
(d)
All chapters, articles, divisions, subdivisions, sections and subsections desired to be repealed should be specifically repealed by chapter, article, division, subdivision, section and subsection, as the case may be.
Sec. 1-6. - Supplementation of Code.
(a)
Supplements to this Code shall be prepared and printed whenever authorized or directed by the city. A supplement to this Code shall include all substantive permanent and general parts of ordinances adopted during the period covered by the supplement and all changes made thereby in the Code. The pages of the supplement shall be so numbered that they will fit properly into the Code and will, where necessary, replace pages that have become obsolete or partially obsolete. The new pages shall be so prepared that when they have been inserted, the Code will be current through the date of the adoption of the latest ordinance included in the supplement.
(b)
In preparing a supplement to this Code, all portions of the Code that have been repealed shall be removed from the Code by the omission thereof from reprinted pages.
(c)
When preparing a supplement to this Code, the person authorized to prepare the supplement may make formal, nonsubstantive changes in ordinances and parts of ordinances included in the supplement, insofar as necessary to do so in order to embody them into a unified Code. For example, the person may:
(1)
Arrange the material into appropriate organizational units.
(2)
Supply appropriate catchlines, headings and titles for chapters, articles, divisions, subdivisions and sections to be included in the Code and make changes in any such catchlines, headings and titles or in any such catchlines, headings and titles already in the Code.
(3)
Assign appropriate numbers to chapters, articles, divisions, subdivisions, sections, and subsections to be added to the Code.
(4)
Where necessary to accommodate new material, change existing numbers assigned to chapters, articles, divisions, subdivisions, sections, and subsections.
(5)
Change the words "this ordinance" or similar words to "this chapter," "this article," "this division," "this subdivision," "this section," "this subsection," or "sections _____ to _____" (inserting appropriate numbers that embody the substantive provisions of the ordinance incorporated in the Code).
(6)
Make other nonsubstantive changes necessary to preserve the original meaning of the ordinances inserted in the Code.
Sec. 1-7. - General penalty; continuing violations.
(a)
In this section, the term "violation of this Code" means any of the following:
(1)
Doing an act that is prohibited or made or declared unlawful, an offense, a violation or a misdemeanor by ordinance, by statute adopted by reference in this Code, by state rule or state regulation adopted by reference in this Code, or by order, rule or regulation authorized by ordinance.
(2)
Failure to perform an act that is required to be performed by ordinance, by statute adopted by reference in this Code, by state rule or state regulation adopted by reference in this Code or by order, rule or regulation authorized by ordinance.
(3)
Failure to perform an act if the failure is prohibited or is made or declared unlawful, an offense, a violation or a misdemeanor by ordinance, by statute adopted by reference in this Code, by state rule or state regulation adopted by reference in this Code or by order, rule or regulation authorized by ordinance.
(b)
In this section, the term "violation of this Code" includes causing, allowing, permitting, aiding, abetting, suffering, or concealing the fact of a violation of this Code.
(c)
In this section, the term "violation of this Code" does not include the failure of a city officer or city employee to perform an official duty unless it is specifically provided that the failure to perform the duty is to be punished as provided in this section.
(d)
Except as otherwise provided, a person convicted of a violation of this Code shall be punished by a fine not exceeding $1,000.00, imprisonment for a term not exceeding six months, or both such fine and imprisonment. A person convicted of a violation of this Code shall also be subject to alternative sentencing as provided by law.
(e)
Except as otherwise provided:
(1)
With respect to violations of this Code that are continuous with respect to time, each day that the violation continues is a separate offense.
(2)
With respect to other violations, each act of violation constitutes a separate offense.
(f)
The imposition of a penalty does not prevent revocation or suspension of a license, permit or franchise.
(g)
Violations of this Code that are continuous with respect to time are a public nuisance and may be abated by injunctive or other equitable relief. The imposition of a penalty does not prevent equitable relief.
State Law reference— Maximum penalty for ordinance violations, O.C.G.A. § 36-35-6(a)(2).
Sec. 1-8. - Severability of parts of Code.
It is hereby declared to be the intention of the city council that the sections, paragraphs, sentences, clauses and phrases of this Code are severable, and if any phrase, clause, sentence, paragraph or section of this Code shall be declared unconstitutional by the valid judgment or decree of a court of competent jurisdiction, such unconstitutionality shall not affect any of the remaining phrases, clauses, sentences, paragraphs and sections of this Code.
Sec. 1-9. - Continuation of existing ordinances.
The provisions of this Code, so far as they are the same as ordinances existing at the time of adoption of this Code, shall be considered as a continuation thereof and not as new enactments.
Sec. 1-10. - Prior acts, obligations or uses unaffected.
(a)
Nothing in this Code or the ordinance adopting this Code affects any offense or act committed or done, or any penalty or forfeiture incurred, or any contract or right established or accruing before the effective date of this Code.
(b)
The adoption of this Code does not authorize or permit any use or the continuance of any use of a structure or premises in violation of any ordinance of the city in effect on the date of adoption of this Code.
Sec. 1-11. - Certain ordinances not affected by Code.
Nothing in this Code or the ordinance adopting this Code affects any ordinance:
(1)
Amending the Charter.
(2)
Extending or contracting the boundaries of the city.
(3)
Promising or guaranteeing the payment of money for the city, or authorizing the issuance of any bonds of the city or any evidence of the city's indebtedness, or any contract or obligations assumed by the city.
(4)
Prescribing the number, classification, benefits or compensation of any city officers or city employees.
(5)
Making any appropriation.
(6)
Adopting a budget or amending same.
(7)
Granting any right or franchise.
(8)
Establishing or prescribing grades of any street.
(9)
Providing for local improvements and assessing taxes therefor.
(10)
Dedicating or accepting any plat or subdivision in the city.
(11)
Dedicating, naming, establishing, locating, relocating, opening, paving, widening, vacating, etc., any street or public way in the city.
(12)
Levying or imposing taxes not codified in this Code.
(13)
Pertaining to grinder pumps, i.e., Ord. No. 2001-4, Amendment 1.
(14)
Establishing development regulations (Ord. No. 2000-7).
(15)
Pertaining to zoning, including ordinances rezoning property or adopting or amending zoning maps or a comprehensive plan.
(16)
Pertaining to telecommunications towers, i.e., Ord. No. 1998-14.
(17)
That is temporary, although general in effect.
(18)
That is special, although permanent in effect.
(19)
The purpose of which has been accomplished.
(20)
Declared by the council to be standalone and independent of the Code.
All such ordinances are on file in the office of the city clerk.
