ARTICLE XXIII. - PLANNING COMMISSION

Sec. 2301. - Creation and appointment.
The Planning Commission for the City of Dahlonega is hereby created. The Planning Commission shall be composed of seven (7) members appointed by the Governing Body in such a manner as hereinafter provided. Four (4) members present shall be required to constitute a quorum. One (1) such member shall be annually elected chairman of the Planning Commission by the Planning Commission members, and the Chairman shall not vote except in cases of a tie-vote between the other members. In cases of a tie-vote and the Chairman excuses himself from voting, then such tie-vote shall constitute denial of said motion, application or action. All members appointed to the Planning Commission shall be residents of the City. The members shall serve staggered terms, with three (3) members serving a term of three (3) years, two (2) members serving a term of two (2) years, and two (2) members serving a term of one (1) year. Thereafter, the members of the Planning Commission shall be appointed for a term of three (3) years and shall serve until their successors are appointed. The compensation of the members of the Planning Commission shall be as established by the Governing Body. Any vacancy in the membership of the Planning Commission shall be filled for the unexpired term of such vacancy in the same manner as the original appointment. The Governing Body may remove any member of the Planning Commission for due cause after written notice to such member and after a public hearing. Members of the Planning Commission shall appoint a secretary, or in lieu of such appointment, the Zoning Administrative Officer shall serve as the secretary of the Planning Commission
( Ord. No. 91-9(Amd. 21), 9-6-2016 )
Sec. 2302. - Meetings and records.
The Planning Commission shall meet at least one (1) time each month at the call of the chairman, or at such other times as the Planning Commission may determine, and all such meetings shall be open to the public. The Planning Commission shall adopt rules for the transaction of business, or in lieu of such rules, the Commission shall follow "Robert's Rules of Order," latest edition. The Planning Commission shall keep record of its resolutions, recommendations, transactions, findings, and determinations, and all such records shall be public record and available for purchase by interested parties at a reasonable cost.
( Ord. No. 91-9(Amd. 21), 9-6-2016 )
Sec. 2303. - Powers and duties.
The Planning Commission shall have the following functions, powers and duties:
1.
Cooperate with, contract with, or accept funds from federal, state, regional, or local public or semi-public agencies or private individuals or corporations; expend such funds; and carry out such cooperative undertakings or contracts.
2.
Make expenditures for the purchase of required equipment and supplies. Expenditures, exclusive of gifts to the Planning Commission or contract receipts, shall be within the amounts appropriated for the purpose by the Governing Body.
3.
Conduct surveys and studies of existing conditions and probable future developments and to prepare and recommend to the Governing Body any plans for physical, social and economic growth as will best promote the public health, safety, order, convenience, aesthetics, prosperity or the general welfare of the City of Dahlonega.
4.
Prepare and recommend for adoption by the Governing Body zoning regulations and official zoning map, subdivision regulations and other such land use regulations; prepare and recommend for adoption by the Governing Body amendments to any of the land use regulations; and to review and make recommendations concerning applications for zoning map amendment, conditional use approvals, variances, annexation or other such applications.
5.
Perform other planning functions and duties as may be required by the Governing Body.
( Ord. No. 91-9(Amd. 21), 9-6-2016 )
