ARTICLE XIX. - I, INDUSTRIAL DISTRICT

Sec. 1901. - Purpose and intent.
The Industrial District is established with the purpose of reserving certain areas with relatively level topography, adequate water and sewerage facilities, and access to arterial streets for industrial operations, but where such areas' proximity to residential and other districts makes it desirable to limit industrial operations to those that are not objectionable by reason of the emission of noise, vibration, smoke, dust, gas, fumes, odors or radiation and that do not create fire or explosion hazards or other objectionable conditions. Uses within this district do not require substantial quantities of water for manufacturing operations and do not necessarily require rail, air and water transportation. Certain commercial uses having an open storage characteristic, or which are most appropriately located as neighbors of industrial uses, are also included within this district.
( Ord. No. 91-9(Amd. 21), 9-6-2016 )
Sec. 1902. - Permitted uses.
1.
Accessory uses and structures normally incidental to permitted principal uses, including offices, showrooms and administrative facilities.
2.
Agricultural implement rental, repair, sales and service, and farm supply stores and storage yards.
3.
Airports and accessory facilities.
4.
Blueprinting and printing establishments.
5.
Building material and other outside storage yards.
6.
Bus passenger stations, terminals.
7.
Cabinet shops.
8.
Contractor's establishments.
9.
Distribution of products and merchandise.
10.
Dry-cleaning plants.
11.
Exterminators and pest control businesses.
12.
Heliports and helistops.
13.
Junkyards and used auto parts yards, subject to screening requirements set forth in Section 2109. on all four (4) sides of the lot on which said use is located.
14.
Kennels.
15.
Lumber yards, planing and sawmills.
16.
Machine shops.
17.
Mini-warehouse and mini-storage facilities.
18.
Parking garages and parking lots.
19.
Race tracks for animals or motor-driven vehicles, provided the site contains a minimum of fifteen (15) acres.
20.
Radio and television broadcasting towers.
21.
Repair of household appliances.
22.
Recycling plants, including any processing activities.
23.
Research and scientific laboratories.
24.
Sign fabrication and painting shops.
25.
Storage buildings and storage yards.
26.
Soft drink bottling and distributing plants.
27.
Truck stops and truck terminals.
28.
Welding shops.
29.
Wholesaling and warehousing facilities.
30.
Wrecked motor vehicle compounds.
( Ord. No. 91-9(Amd. 21), 9-6-2016 )
Sec. 1903. - Conditional uses.
1.
Asphalt plants.
2.
Canning establishments.
3.
Ceramic production facilities.
4.
Cold storage, frozen food lockers and ice manufacture.
5.
Concrete, cement, clay, mortar and plaster production.
6.
Extraction or removal of sand, gravel, top soil, clay, dirt, precious metals, gems, or other natural resources.
7.
Feed, grain, or fertilizer manufacture or storage.
8.
Food processing plants, including fish and poultry facilities.
9.
Landfills.
10.
Manufacturing, processing and assembling of the following products: chemicals, floor coverings, glass, machinery, metals, rubber, textiles, tobacco, and wood.
11.
Residences for a caretaker or night watchman.
( Ord. No. 91-9(Amd. 21), 9-6-2016 )
Sec. 1904. - Industrial performance standards.
All uses hereafter established in the I, Industrial District, shall conform to the following performance standards:
Lighting:
Exterior illumination on a particular site shall not exceed 1.2 footcandles of illumination at any property line, nor will the light source be directly visible from adjoining residential properties.
1.
Noise:
Within an I District, the loudness or energy level of sound resulting from machinery or activities shall not exceed 70 decibels (dB) for more than five minutes during any one (1) hour, as measured at any given property line abutting a residential district.
2.
Electromagnetic Interference:
No use, activity or process shall be conducted which produces electromagnetic interference with radio or television reception in adjacent or neighboring residential areas.
( Ord. No. 91-9(Amd. 21), 9-6-2016 )
