PART 3 - COUNTY-CITY WATER AUTHORITY
ARTICLE I - GENERAL PROVISIONS

Section 3.101 - Short title.
This may be cited as the "Cobb County-Marietta Water Authority Act."
(Ga. L. 1951, p. 497, Sec. 1)
Editor's note— References to "this act" apply to Part 3, Division 1 of this code.
Section 3.102 - Definitions.
As used in this act, the following words and terms shall have the following meanings:
(a)
The word "authority" shall mean the Cobb County-Marietta Water Authority created by section 2 [3-103] of this act except where the context clearly indicates otherwise.
(b)
The word "project" shall be deemed to mean and include the acquisition and construction of all necessary and usual water facilities useful and necessary for the obtaining of one (1) or more sources of water supply, the treatment of water and the distribution and sale of water to users and consumers, including counties and municipalities for the purpose of resale, inside and outside the territorial boundaries of Cobb County and the operation, maintenance, additions, improvements, and extensions of such facilities so as to assure an adequate water utility system deemed by the authority necessary or convenient for the efficient operation of such type of undertaking. The word "project" shall also be deemed to mean and include the acquisition and construction of hydroelectric power generation and transmission components which are an incidental part of such necessary and usual waterworks facilities.
(c)
The term "cost of the project" shall embrace the cost of construction, the cost of all lands, properties, rights, easements, and franchises acquired, the cost of all machinery and equipment, financing charges, interest prior to and during construction, and for one (1) year after completion of construction, cost of engineering, architectural, and legal expenses and of plans and specifications and other expenses necessary or incidental to determining the feasibility or practicability of the project, administrative expenses, and such other expenses as may be necessary or incidental to the financing herein authorized, the construction of any project, the placing of the same in operation, and the condemnation of property necessary for such construction and operation. Any obligation or expense incurred for any of the foregoing purposes shall be regarded as a part of the cost of the project and may be paid or reimbursed as such out of the proceeds of revenue bonds issued under the provisions of this act for such project.
(d)
The terms "revenue bonds" and "bonds," as used in this act, shall mean revenue bonds as defined and provided for in Article 3 of Chapter 82 of Title 36 of the O.C.G.A., known as the "Revenue Bond Law," as amended, and such type of obligations may be issued by the authority as authorized under the "Revenue Bond Law" and, in addition, shall also mean obligations of the authority, the issuance of which are hereinafter specifically provided for in this act.
(e)
Any project shall be deemed "self-liquidating" if, in the judgment of the authority, the revenues and earnings to be derived by the authority therefrom will be sufficient to pay the cost of operating, maintaining, and repairing, improving and extending the project, and to pay the principal and interest of the revenue bonds which may be issued for the cost of such project or projects.
(f)
The term "pass through" shall mean to levy a charge to such wholesale customer in addition to the authority's normal charge for water supplied, to be paid on the same terms as such normal charge for water supplied.
(g)
The term "wholesale customer" shall mean the water system of a county or municipality or other consumer of water to which treated water is directly supplied by the authority.
(h)
The term "on a prorata basis" shall mean the amount shall be divided among the wholesale customers experiencing such excessive demand based on the proportion of the gallons of demand of each such excessive demand wholesale customer during such month to the total gallons of demand of all such excessive demand wholesale customers during such month.
(Ga. L. 1951, p. 497, Sec. 3 as amended by Ga. L. 1988, p. 4028, Sec. 1; Ga. L. 1989, p. 4711, Sec. 2)
Amendment note—The 1988 act made minor language changes in the above section and changed the state law reference in Subsec. (d), Subsecs. (f) through (h) were added by the 1989 act.
Section 3.103 - Authority created; members; terms; officers; quorum; compensation.
(a)
There is hereby created a body corporate and politic to be known as the Cobb County-Marietta Water Authority, which shall be deemed to be a political subdivision of the State of Georgia and a public corporation and by that name, style, and title, said body may contract and be contracted with, sue and be sued, implead and be impleaded, complain and defend in all courts of law and equity.
(b)
The authority shall consist of seven (7) members who shall be determined and selected as follows:
(1)
One member shall be the chairman of the Board of Commissioners of Cobb County, Georgia.
(2)
One member shall be selected by the governing authority of the City of Marietta, Georgia.
(3)
Four (4) members shall be selected by a caucus consisting of all members of the General Assembly whose districts are wholly or partially within Cobb County. The four (4) members so selected by the caucus must be residents of the unincorporated area of Cobb County. Two (2) of the four (4) members so selected by the caucus must be residents of the western district from which members of the Board of Commissioners of Cobb County are elected; and two (2) of the four (4) members so selected by the caucus must be residents of the eastern district from which members of the Board of Commissioners of Cobb County are elected.
(4)
One member shall be selected by the governing authority of the City of Acworth, Georgia, in those years in which the members of the authority are to be elected which end with the numeral 4; by the governing authority of the City of Austell, Georgia, in those years in which the members of the authority are to be elected which end with the numeral 8; by the governing authority of the City of Kennesaw, Georgia, in those years in which the members of the authority are to be elected which end with the numeral 2; by the governing authority of the City of Powder Springs, Georgia, in those years in which the members of the authority are to be elected which end with the numeral 6; and by the governing authority of the City of Smyrna, Georgia, in those years in which the members of the authority are to be elected which end with the numeral 0.
(c)
The term of office of the chairman of the Board of Commissioners of Cobb County as a member of the authority shall be concurrent with the term of office as chairman of the board of commissioners. The two (2) members of the authority appointed by the governing authorities of Marietta and the other appropriate municipality and serving on the effective date of this Act shall serve until August 14, 1992, and until their successors are appointed and qualified. The two (2) members of the authority appointed by the members of the General Assembly from Cobb County and serving on March 30, 1989, shall serve until August 14, 1990, and until their successors are appointed and qualified. The two (2) other members appointed by the members of the General Assembly from Cobb County pursuant to this Act shall serve until August 14, 1994, and until their successors are appointed and qualified. Thereafter, all members of the authority other than the chairman of the Board of Commissioners of Cobb County shall serve for terms of four (4) years and until their successors are appointed and qualified and shall assume office on August 15 following the expiration of the prior members' terms.
(d)
The authority shall elect one of its members as chairman and another as vice chairman. The authority may also select a secretary and treasurer, who need not necessarily be members of the authority. Five (5) members of the authority shall constitute a quorum. No vacancy on the authority shall impair the right of the quorum to exercise all the rights and perform all the duties of the authority.
(e)
The members of the authority shall each be entitled to compensation for their services at the rate of $3,600 per year, payable monthly, except that the chairman shall be entitled to compensation for the chairman's services at the rate of $4,800 per year, payable monthly. All such compensation payable by the authority shall be in addition to any compensation otherwise payable to any member of the authority by any municipality or county by virtue of any municipal or county elective office held by such member. All members shall be reimbursed for their actual expenses necessarily incurred in the performance of their duties. No reimbursement or payment shall be made by the authority for travel, meal, or entertainment expenses for members of the authority unless on each occasion the incurring of such expenses for the same are approved in advance by the authority at one of its public meetings. The authority shall make rules and regulations for its own government. It shall have perpetual existence.
(Ga. L. 1951, p. 497, Sec. 2, as amended by Ga. L. 1965, p. 2762, Sec. 1; Ga. L. 1967, p. 2051, Sec. l; Ga. L. 1984, p. 4345, Sec. 1; Ga. L. 1986, p. 5296, Sec. l; Ga. L. 1989, p. 4711, Sec. 1; Ga. L. 1990, p. 3780, Sec. 1)
Amendment note—The 1989 act increased the membership of the board from five to seven members. The 1990 act changed members terms from three years to four years.
Annotation—The authority need not collect state sales tax on sale of water since it is a "subdivision of the state" under the above section. Hawes v. Lockheed Aircraft Corp., 118 Ga. App. 222. 162 S.E. 2d 896(1968), cert. den.
Section 3.104 - Vacancies.
(a)
In the event of a vacancy in the membership of the authority by reason of death, resignation, or disability, said vacancy shall be filled by the governing authority or caucus which originally selected the vacating member in question. Notwithstanding that a vacancy occurs in a year in which the governing authority of another city may be authorized to select a member for a full term under paragraph (4) of subsection (b) of section 2 of this act, section 3.103, the governing authority of that city which selected the member whose office has become vacant shall select a successor to serve the remainder of that member's unexpired term and until a successor is regularly selected and appointed.
(b)
In the event of a vacancy in the office of chairman of the authority occurring by reason of the death, resignation, or disability of the chairman of the Board of Commissioners of Cobb County, then the deputy commissioner shall fill the vacancy so created, and if there is no deputy commissioner of Cobb County, then the Board of Commissioners of Cobb County shall elect one of its members to fill such vacancy.
(Ga. L. 1951, p. 497, Sec. 2A, as amended by Ga. L. 1965, p. 2762, Sec. 2; Ga. L. 1986, p. 5296)
Section 3.105 - Removal of members.
The appointing authority may remove any members appointed by it for cause. In the case of the Chairman of the Board of Commissioners of Roads and Revenues of Cobb County or the Deputy Commissioner of the Board of Commissioners of Roads and Revenues of Cobb County, serving because of a vacancy created by reason of the death, resignation or disability of the Chairman of the Board of Commissioners of Roads and Revenues of Cobb County, then the removal of such person as chairman of the authority may be by the Board of Commissioners of Roads and Revenues of Cobb County. No member or the chairman of the authority shall be thus removed unless he has been given a copy of the charges against him and an opportunity to be publicly heard in his own defense in person or by counsel with at least 10 days' written notice. A member or the chairman removed from office shall have the right of judicial review of his removal by an appeal to the Superior Court of Cobb County but only on the ground of error of law or abuse of discretion. In case of an abandonment of his office, conviction of a crime involving moral turpitude or a plea of nolo contendere thereto, the office of such member or chairman shall be declared vacant by the authority. A member or the chairman shall be deemed to have abandoned his office upon failure to attend any regular or special meeting of the authority for a period of three (3) months without excuse approved by a resolution of the authority.
(Ga. L. 1951, p. 497, Sec. 2B, as amended by Ga. L. 1965, p. 2762, Sec. 3)
Section 3.106 - General powers.
The authority shall have powers:
(a)
to have a seal and alter the same at pleasure;
(b)
to acquire by purchase, lease or otherwise, and to hold, lease and dispose of real and personal property of every kind and character for its corporate purposes;
(c)
to acquire in its own name by purchase, on such terms and conditions and in such manner as it may deem proper, or by condemnation in accordance with the provisions of any and all existing laws applicable to the condemnation of property for public use, real property or rights of easements therein or franchises necessary or convenient for its corporate purposes, and to use the same so long as its corporate existence shall continue and to lease or make contracts with respect to the use of or dispose of the same in any manner it deems to the best advantage of the authority, the authority being under no obligation to accept and pay for any property condemned under this act except from the funds provided under the authority of this act, and in any proceedings to condemn, such orders may be made by the court having jurisdiction of the suit, action or proceedings as may be just to the authority and to the owners of the property to be condemned, and no property shall be acquired under the provisions of this act on which any lien or other incumbrance exists, unless at the time such property is so acquired a sufficient sum of money be deposited in trust to pay and redeem the fair value of such lien or incumbrance; and if the authority shall deem it expedient to construct any project on any other lands the title to which shall then be in the State of Georgia, the governor is hereby authorized to convey, for and in behalf of the state title to such lands to the authority upon payment to the state treasurer for the credit of the general fund of the state of the reasonable value of such lands, such value to be determined by three (3) appraisers to be agreed upon by the governor and the chairman of the authority;
(d)
to appoint, select and employ, officers, agents and employees, including engineering, architectural and construction experts, fiscal agents and attorneys, and fix their respective compensations;
(e)
to make contracts, leases and to execute all instruments necessary or convenient, including contracts for construction of projects and leases of projects or contracts with respect to the use of projects which it causes to be erected or acquired, and any and all persons, firms and corporations and any and all political subdivisions, departments, institutions or agencies of the state are hereby authorized to enter into contracts, leases or agreements with the authority upon such terms and for such purposes as they deem advisable; and without limiting the generality of the above, authority is specifically granted to municipal corporations and counties and to the authority to enter into contracts, lease agreements, or other undertakings relative to the furnishing of water and related services and facilities by the authority to such municipal corporations and counties for a term not exceeding 50 years;
(f)
to construct, erect, acquire, own, repair, remodel, maintain, add to, extend, improve, equip, operate and manage projects, as hereinabove defined; the cost of any such project to be paid in whole or in part from the proceeds of revenue bonds of the authority or from such proceeds and any grant from the United States of America or any agency or instrumentality thereof;
(g)
to accept loans and/or grants of money or materials or property of any kind from the United States of America or any agency or instrumentality thereof, including the Reconstruction Finance Corporation, upon such terms and conditions as the United States of America or such agency or instrumentality, including the Reconstruction Finance Corporation, may impose;
(h)
to borrow money for any of its corporate purposes and to issue negotiable revenue bonds payable solely from funds pledged for that purpose, and to provide for the payment of the same and for the rights of the holders thereof;
(i)
to exercise any power usually possessed by private corporations performing similar functions, which is not in conflict with the constitution and laws of this state; and
(j)
to do all things necessary or convenient to carry out the powers expressly given in this act.
(Ga. L. 1951, p. 497, Sec. 4)
Section 3.107 - Purpose of authority.
Without limiting the generality of any provisions of this act, the general purpose of the authority is declared to be that of acquiring an adequate source or sources of water supply, treatment of such water, and thereafter the distribution of same to the water systems of Cobb County and the various municipalities in said county and those of adjoining counties and municipalities located therein; but such general purpose shall not restrict the authority from selling and delivering water directly to consumers in those areas where neither any county nor any municipality deems it desirable or feasible to furnish water; nor shall it restrict the authority from selling and delivering water to counties which do not adjoin Cobb County or to municipalities located therein; nor shall it restrict the authority from engaging in the construction, ownership, or operation of waterworks projects which include hydroelectric power generation components as an incidental part thereof or using or selling at wholesale the electric power generated therefrom.
(Ga. L. 1951, p. 497, Sec. 24, as amended by Ga. L. 1988, p. 4028, Sec. 3)
Amendment note—The 1988 act added provisions concerning hydroelectric power generation.
Section 3.108 - Rules and regulations.
It shall be the duty of the authority to prescribe rules and regulations for the operation of the project or projects constructed under the provisions of this act, including the basis on which water service and facilities shall be furnished.
(Ga. L. 1951, p. 497, Sec. 26)
Section 3.109 - Rates, charges and revenues; use.
The authority is hereby authorized to prescribe and fix and collect rates, fees, tolls or charges, and to revise from time to time and collect such rates, fees, tolls or charges for the services, facilities or commodities furnished, and in anticipation of the collection of the revenues of such undertaking or project, to issue revenue bonds as herein provided to finance in whole or in part the cost of the acquisition, construction, reconstruction, improvement, betterment or extension of the water utility system, and to pledge to the punctual payment of said bonds and interest thereon, all or any part of the revenues of such undertaking or project, including the revenues of improvements, betterments or extensions thereto thereafter made.
(Ga. L. 1951, p. 497, Sec. 25)
Section 3.110 - Tax exempt status.
The properties of the authority, both real and personal, are declared to be public properties used for the benefit and welfare of the people of the State of Georgia, and not for purposes of private or corporate benefit and income, and such properties and the authority shall be exempt from all taxes and special assessments of any city, county, or the state or any political subdivision thereof.
(Ga. L. 1951, p. 497, Sec. 25A, as amended by Ga. L. 1972, p. 3208)
Annotation—The authority is exempt from paying state sales tax pursuant to Ga. L. 1972, p. 3208 but was not exempt from state taxes prior to that act. Blackmon v. Cobb County-Marietta Water Authority, 126 Ga. App. 459, 191 S.E. 2d 128(1972).
Section 3.110A - Pass through of certain fines.
In the event that (i) the authority is fined, or negotiates the settlement of a disputed fine or claim by the payment of negotiated consideration to a regulatory agency, either for violating any of the authority's surface water withdrawal permits or for operating any of its treatment plants at a rate in excess of any of its operating permits, and (ii) such alleged permit violation is a result of excessive demand for water by one or more of the authority's wholesale customers, then the authority shall pass through such fine or negotiated consideration on a prorata basis to those of its wholesale customers determined by it in an equitable manner to be experiencing excessive aggregate demand for water during the month of the alleged permit violation.
(Ga. L. 1989, p. 4711, Sec. 3)
Editor's note— Ga. L. 1989, p. 471 1, Sec. 3, amended Ga. L. 1951, p. 497, by adding provisions designated as Sec. 25B and pertaining to pass through of certain fines. Such provisions are designated herein as Section 3.1l0A.
Section 3.111 - All funds held in trust.
All moneys received pursuant to the authority of this act, whether as proceeds from the sale of revenue bonds, as grants or other contributions, or as revenues, fees and earnings, shall be deemed to be trust funds to be held and applied solely as provided in this act.
(Ga. L. 1951, p. 497, Sec. 23)
Section 3.112 - Competitive bidding on contracts.
(a)
Except in the purchase of unique articles or articles which for any reason are unobtainable in the open market, and except as hereinafter provided, competitive bids shall be secured before any purchase or sale by contract or otherwise is made by the authority, or before any contract is awarded for construction, alterations, supplies, equipment, repairs or maintenance, or for rendering any services to the authority other than professional services, and the purchase shall be made from, or the contract shall be awarded to, the lowest responsible bidder, or a sale to the highest responsible bidder. Where the amount involved is $2,500 or more, no purchase of any unique article or other articles unobtainable in the open market shall be made unless a report detailing why such unique article or other articles are unobtainable in the open market is approved by the authority and entered into the minutes of the authority.
(b)
All purchases, contracts, and sales of $2,500 or more for which competitive bids must be secured shall be awarded after advertising in the official organ of Cobb County at least two (2) weeks prior to the bid opening. Bids shall be publicly opened and read aloud at a date, time, and place designated in the invitation to bid. Invitations to bid shall be sent at least one (1) week prior to the bid opening to at least three (3) potential bidders who are qualified technically and financially to submit bids, or, in lieu thereof, the authority shall keep on file a memorandum showing that less than three (3) potential bidders so qualified exist in the market area within which it is practicable to obtain bids.
(c)
Purchases or sales under $2,500 may be negotiated with or without competitive bidding under sound procurement procedures as promulgated and established by the authority.
(d)
Competitive bidding requirements may be waived if it is determined by the authority that an emergency directly and immediately affecting customer service or public health, safety, or welfare requires immediate delivery of supplies, materials, equipment, or services; provided, however, that a record explaining the emergency shall be entered into the minutes of the authority. Competitive bidding requirements may also be waived where the party selling to the authority or purchasing from the authority is the State of Georgia, another authority of the State of Georgia, or any county or municipality of the State of Georgia.
(e)
The authority shall have the right to reject any or all bids, or parts of any or all bids, whenever in the opinion of the authority such rejection is necessary for the protection of the interests of the authority. In such cases, the authority shall readvertise for new bids on the same or different terms.
(Ga. L. 1951, p. 497, Sec. 4A, as amended by Ga. L. 1965, p. 2762, Sec. 4; Ga. L. 1986, p. 5296, Sec. 3; Ga. L. 1988, p. 4028, Sec. 2)
Amendment note—The 1988 act added the last sentence of Subsec. (d).
Section 3.113 - Contractors to give bond.
Contractors who are awarded contracts by the authority shall be required to give bond in an amount equal to the amount of the bid, with good security, for the faithful performance of the contract and to indemnity the authority for any damages occasioned by a failure to perform the same within the prescribed time. Such bond shall be approved by and filed with the authority or shall be approved by and filed with such other person as may be designated by the authority.
(Ga. L. 1951, p. 497, Sec. 4B, as amended by Ga. L. 1965, p. 2762, Sec. 5 and Ga. L. 1967, p. 2051, Sec. 2)
Section 3.114 - Members of authority not to be interested in contracts.
The authority is hereby prohibited from entering into a contract for the purchase of goods, property or service with any member of the authority, his employer, partner, principal, agent, servant or employee, nor shall the authority enter into any contract in which any member of the authority is financially interested, directly or indirectly. Neither shall the chairman or any member of the authority, his partner, employer, principal, agent, servant or employee enter into any contract with the authority, or sell to the authority any goods, property or service; provided, however, this section shall not apply to goods or services purchased from any public utility which is regulated by the Georgia Public Service Commission. Any contract made in violation of the provisions of this section shall be void, and any person knowingly offending this section shall be removed from office as a member of the authority upon proper proceedings instituted by any taxpayer in said county in accordance with the provisions of section 23-1714 of the Code of Georgia of 1933 relating to the removal of county officers.
(Ga. L. 1951, p. 497, Sec. 4C, as amended by Ga. L. 1965, p. 2767, Sec. 6)
Section 3.115 - Financial statements and audit reports.
(a)
The authority shall establish a fiscal year for its operation, and as soon after the end of each fiscal year as is feasible, the authority shall cause to be prepared and printed a report and financial statement of the authority's operations for the fiscal year just ended and of its assets and liabilities. A copy of such report shall be sent to the governing authority of Cobb County and to the governing authority of such municipality located therein, and additional copies shall be made available for distribution to the general public on written requests therefor.
(b)
The authority shall appoint in due time each year a firm of independent certified public accountants as auditors who shall examine the books, records and accounts of the authority for the purpose of auditing and reporting upon its financial statement for such year. The report of such auditors shall be appended to such financial statement.
(c)
Whenever the authority deems it necessary or advisable, it shall be authorized to employ a firm of qualified independent engineers to survey the condition of the authority's facilities and operations from an engineering standpoint and make a report thereof together with its recommendations for improvement in its physical facilities and operating procedures. A copy of such report shall be sent to the governing authority of Cobb County and to the governing authority of each municipality located therein, and additional copies shall be made available for distribution to the general public on written requests therefor.
(Ga. L. 1951, p. 497, Sec. 26A, as amended by Ga. L. 1965, p. 2767, Sec. 7)
Section 3.116 - Powers supplemental and additional.
The foregoing sections of this act [all of part 3] shall be deemed to provide an additional and alternative method for the doing of the things authorized thereby and shall be regarded as supplemental and additional to powers conferred by other laws, and shall not be regarded as in derogation of any powers now existing.
(Ga. L. 1951, p. 497, Sec. 27)
Section 3.117 - Liberal construction of act.
This act [all of part 3], being for the welfare of various political subdivisions of the state and its inhabitants, shall be liberally construed to effect the purposes hereof.
(Ga. L. 1951, p. 497, Sec. 28)
Section 3.118 - Effect of partial invalidity of act.
The provisions of this act are severable, and if any of its provisions shall be held unconstitutional by any court of competent jurisdiction, the decision of such court shall not affect or impair any of the remaining provisions.
(Ga. L. 1951, p. 497, Sec. 29)
Section 3.119 - Effect on other laws.
This act does not in any way take from Cobb County or any municipality located therein or any adjoining county the authority to own, operate and maintain water systems or issue revenue certificates as is provided by the Revenue Certificate Law of Georgia. All laws and parts of laws in conflict with this act are hereby repealed.
(Ga. L. 1951, p. 497, Sec. 30)
ARTICLE II - REVENUE BONDS

Section 3.201 - Bond authorized; limit.
The authority, or any authority or body which had or which may in the future succeed to the powers, duties and liabilities vested in the authority created hereby, shall have power and is hereby authorized at one time, or from time to time, to provide by resolution for the issuance of negotiable revenue bonds in a sum not to exceed $80,000,000 outstanding at any one time of the authority for the purpose of paying all or any part of the cost as herein defined of any one or more projects. The principal and interest of such revenue bonds shall be payable solely from the special fund herein provided for such payment. The bonds of each issue shall be dated, shall bear interest at such rate or rates not exceeding the interest allowed by the Revenue Bond Law as now provided or may hereinafter be provided by amendment thereto, payable semi-annually, shall mature at such time or times not exceeding 40 years from their date or dates, shall be payable in such medium of payment as to both principal and interest as may be determined by the authority, and may be made redeemable before maturity, at the option of the authority, at such price or prices and under such terms and conditions as may be fixed by the authority in the resolution providing for the issuance of the bonds.
(Ga. L. 1951, p. 497, Sec. 5, as amended by Ga. L. 1963, p. 3052; Ga. L. 1967, p. 2051, Sec. 3; Ga. L. 1968, p. 3533; Ga. L. 1971, p. 3485; Ga. L. 1980, p. 3265)
Amendment note—The limit in the first sentence of the above section was raised from $40,000,000 to $80,000,000 by the 1980 act.
State Law reference— Revenue Bond Law, Ga. Code Ann., Ch. 87-8.
Section 3.202 - Bond form; denominations; registration; place of payment.
The authority shall determine the form of the bonds, including any interest coupons to be attached thereto, and shall fix the denomination or denominations of the bonds and the place or places of payment of principal and interest thereof, which may be at any bank or trust company within or without the state. The bonds may be issued in coupon or registered form, or both, as the authority may determine, provision may be made for the registration of any coupon bond as to principal alone and also as to both the principal and interest.
(Ga. L. 1951, p. 497, Sec. 6)
Section 3.203 - Signatures; seal.
In case any officer whose signature shall appear on any bonds or whose facsimile signature shall appear on any coupon shall cease to be such officer before the delivery of such bonds, such signature shall nevertheless be valid and sufficient for all purposes the same as if he had remained in office until such delivery. All such bonds shall be signed by the chairman of the authority and official seal of the authority shall be affixed thereto and attested by the secretary of the authority and any coupons attached thereto shall bear the signature or facsimile signature of the chairman of the authority. Any coupon may bear the facsimile signature of such person and any bond may be signed, sealed and attested on behalf of the authority by such persons as at the actual time of the execution of such bonds shall be duly authorized or hold the proper office, although at the date of such bonds such persons may not have been so authorized or shall not have held such office.
(Ga. L. 1951, p. 497, Sec. 7)
Section 3.204 - Negotiability; exemption from taxation.
All revenue bonds issued under the provisions of this act shall have and are hereby declared to have all the qualities and incidents of negotiable instruments under the negotiable instruments law of the state. Such bonds and the income thereof shall be exempt from all taxation within the state.
(Ga. L. 1951, p. 497, Sec. 8)
Section 3.205 - Bond; sale; price.
The authority may sell such bonds in such manner and for such price as it may determine to be for the best interest of the authority, but no such sale shall be made at a price so low as to require the payment of interest on the money received therefor at a greater rate than the interest allowed by the Revenue Bond Law as now provided or may hereafter be provided by amendment thereto, computed with relation to the absolute maturity of the bonds in accordance with standard tables of bond values, excluding, however, from such computation the amount of any premium to be paid on redemption of any bond prior to maturity.
(Ga. L. 1951, p. 497, Sec. 9, as amended by Ga. L. 1968, p. 3533, Sec. 2)
Section 3.206 - Proceeds of bonds.
The proceeds of such bonds shall be used solely for the payment of the cost of the project or projects, and unless otherwise provided in the resolution authorizing the issuance of the bonds or in the trust indenture, additional bonds may in like manner be issued to provide the amount of such deficit, which unless otherwise provided in the resolution authorizing the issuance of the bonds or in the trust indenture, shall be deemed to be of the same issue and shall be entitled to payment from the same fund without preference or priority of the bonds first issued for the same purpose. If the proceeds of the bonds of any issue shall exceed the amount required for the purpose for which such bonds are issued, the surplus shall be paid into the fund hereinafter provided for the payment of principal and interest of such bonds.
(Ga. L. 1951, p. 497, Sec. 10)
Section 3.207 - Interim receipts and certificates or temporary bonds.
Prior to the preparation of definitive bonds, the authority may, under like restrictions issue interim receipts, interim certificates or temporary bonds, with or without coupons exchangeable for definitive bonds upon the issuance of the latter.
(Ga. L. 1951, p. 497, Sec. 11)
Section 3.208 - Replacement of lost or mutilated bonds.
The authority may also provide for the replacement of any bond which shall become mutilated or be destroyed or lost.
(Ga. L. 1951, p. 497, Sec. 12)
Section 3.209 - Conditions precedent to issuance; object of issuance.
Such revenue bonds may be issued without any other proceedings or the happening of any other conditions or things than those proceedings, conditions and things which are specified or required by this act. In the discretion of the authority, revenue bonds of a single issue may be issued for the purpose of any particular project. Any resolution, providing for the issuance of revenue bonds under the provisions of this act shall become effective immediately upon its passage and need not be published or posted, and any such resolution may be passed at any regular or special or adjourned meeting of the authority by a majority of its members.
(Ga. L. 1951, p. 497, Sec. 13)
Section 3.210 - Credit not pledged.
Revenue bonds issued under the provisions of this act shall not be deemed to constitute a debt of Cobb County or the City of Marietta or a pledge of the faith and credit of either subdivision, but such bonds shall be payable solely from the fund hereinafter provided for and the issuance of such revenue bonds shall not indirectly or contingently obligate either the said county or city to levy or to pledge any form of taxation whatever therefor or to make any appropriation for the payment, and all such bonds shall contain recitals on their face covering substantially the foregoing provisions of this section.
(Ga. L. 1951, p. 497, Sec. 14)
Section 3.211 - Trust indenture as security.
In the discretion of the authority, any issue of such revenue bonds may be secured by a trust indenture by and between the authority and a corporate trustee, which may be any trust company or bank having the powers of a trust company within or outside of the state. Such trust indenture may pledge or assign fees, tolls, revenues and earnings to be received by the authority. Either the resolution providing for the issuance of revenue bonds or such trust indenture may contain such provisions for protecting and enforcing the rights and remedies of the bondholders as may be reasonable and proper and not in violation of law, including covenants setting forth the duties of the authority in relation to the acquisition of property, the construction of the project, the maintenance, operation, repair and insurance of the project, and the custody, safeguarding and application of all monies, and may also provide that any project shall be constructed and paid for under the supervision and approval of consulting engineers or architects employed or designated by the authority, and satisfactory to the original purchasers of the bonds issued therefore [therefor] and may also require that the security given by contractors and by any depositary of the proceeds of the bonds or revenues or other moneys be satisfactory to such purchasers, and may also contain provisions concerning the conditions, if any, upon which additional revenue bonds may be issued. It shall be lawful for any bank or trust company incorporated under the laws of this state to act as such depositary and to furnish such indemnifying bonds or pledge such securities as may be required by the authority. Such indenture may set forth the rights and remedies of the bondholders and of the trustee, and may restrict the individual right of action of bondholders as is customary in trust indentures securing bonds and debentures of corporations. In addition to the foregoing, such trust indenture may contain such other provisions as the authority may deem reasonable and proper for the security of the bondholders. All expenses incurred in carrying out such trust indenture may be treated as a part of the cost of maintenance, operation and repair of the project affected by such indenture.
(Ga. L. 1951, p. 497, Sec. 15)
Section 3.212 - To whom proceeds of bonds shall be paid.
The authority shall, in the resolution providing for the issuance of revenue bonds or in the trust indenture, provide for the payment of the proceeds of the sale of the bonds to any officer or person who or any agency, bank or trust company which shall act as trustee of such funds and shall hold and apply the same to the purposes hereof, subject to such regulations as this act and such resolution or trust indenture may provide.
(Ga. L. 1951, p. 497, Sec. 16)
Section 3.213 - Sinking fund.
The revenues, fees, tolls and earnings derived from any particular project or projects, regardless of whether or not such fees, earnings, and revenues were produced by a particular project for which bonds have been issued unless otherwise pledged and allocated, may be pledged and allocated by the authority to the payment of the principal and interest on revenue bonds of the authority as the resolution authorizing the issuance of the bonds or in the trust instrument may provide, and such funds so pledged from whatever source received, which said pledge may include funds received from one or more or all sources, shall be set aside at regular intervals as may be provided in the resolution or trust indenture, into a sinking fund which said sinking fund shall be pledged to and charged with the payments of (1) the interest upon such revenue bonds as such interest shall fall due, (2) the principal of the bonds as the same shall fall due, (3) the necessary charges of paying agents for paying principal and interest, and (4) any premium upon bonds retired by call or purchase as hereinabove provided. The use and disposition of such sinking fund shall be subject to such regulations as may be provided in the resolution authorizing the issuance of the revenue bonds or in the trust indenture, but, except as may otherwise be provided in such resolution or trust indenture, such sinking fund shall be a fund for the benefit of all revenue bonds without distinction or priority of one over another. Subject to the provisions of the resolution authorizing the issuance of the bonds or in the trust indenture surplus monies in the sinking fund may be applied to the purchase or redemption of bonds and any such bonds so purchased or redeemed shall forthwith be cancelled and shall not again be issued.
(Ga. L. 1951, p. 497, Sec. 17)
Section 3.214 - Remedies of bondholders.
Any holder of revenue bonds issued under the provisions of this act or any of the coupons appertaining thereto, and the trustee under the trust indenture, if any, except to the extent the rights herein given may be restricted by resolution passed before the issuance of the bonds or by the trust indenture, may, either at law or in equity, by suit, action, mandamus, or other proceedings, protect and enforce any and all rights under the laws of the State of Georgia or granted hereunder or under such resolution or trust indenture, and may enforce and compel performance of all duties required by this act or by such resolution or trust indenture, to be performed by the authority, or any officer thereof, including the fixing, charging, and collecting of revenues, fees, tolls, and other charges for the use of the facilities and services furnished.
(Ga. L. 1951, p. 497, Sec. 18)
Section 3.215 - Refunding bonds.
The authority is hereby authorized to provide by resolution for the issue of revenue refunding bonds of the authority for the purpose of refunding any revenue bonds issued under the provisions of this act and then outstanding, together with accrued interest thereon. The issuance of such revenue refunding bonds, the maturities and all other details thereof, the rights of the holders thereof, and the duties of the authority in respect to the same, shall be governed by the foregoing provisions of this act insofar as the same may be applicable.
(Ga. L. 1951, p. 497, Sec. 19)
Section 3.216 - Venue and jurisdiction.
Any action to protect or enforce any rights under the provisions of this act or any suit or action against such authority shall be brought in the Superior Court of Cobb County, Georgia, and any action pertaining to validation of any bonds issued under the provisions of this act shall likewise be brought in said court which shall have exclusive, original jurisdiction of such actions.
(Ga. L. 1951, p. 497, Sec. 20)
Section 3.217 - Validation.
Bonds of the authority shall be confirmed and validated in accordance with the procedure of the Revenue Certificate Law of 1937, as amended. The petition for validation shall also make party defendant to such action any municipality, county, authority, subdivision, or instrumentality of the State of Georgia which has contracted with the authority for the services and facilities of the water system for which bonds are to be issued and sought to be validated and such municipality; county, authority, subdivision or instrumentality shall be required to show cause, if any, why such contract or contracts and the terms and conditions thereof should not be inquired into by the court and the validity of the terms thereof be determined and the contract or contracts adjudicated as security for the payment of any such bonds of the authority. The bonds when validated, and the judgment of validation shall be final and conclusive with respect to such bonds, against the authority issuing the same, and any municipality, county, authority, subdivision or instrumentality contracting with the said Cobb County-Marietta Water Authority.
(Ga. L. 1951, p. 497, Sec. 21)
Section 3.218 - Interests of bondholders protected.
While any of the bonds issued by the authority remain outstanding, the powers, duties or existence of said authority or of its officers, employees or agents shall not be diminished or impaired in any manner that will affect adversely the interests and rights of the holders of such bonds, and no other entity, department, agency or authority will be created which will compete with the authority to such an extent as to affect adversely the interests and rights of the holders of such bonds, nor will the state itself so compete with the authority. The provisions of this act shall be for the benefit of the authority and the holders of any such bonds, and upon the issuance of bonds under the provisions hereof, shall constitute a contract with the holders of such bonds.
(Ga. L. 1951, p. 497, Sec. 22)
