PART 4 - DOWNTOWN MARIETTA DEVELOPMENT AUTHORITY
ARTICLE I - CONSTITUTIONAL AUTHORIZATION

Section 4.101 - Authority to create; special tax districts; eminent domain.
Article VII, Section VII, Paragraph I of the Constitution is amended by adding at the end thereof the following:
"The General Assembly shall be authorized to create in and for the City of Marietta, the Downtown Marietta Development Authority for the purpose of the redevelopment of the downtown Marietta area. Said authority shall have the power to employ engineers and planners, to contract for the construction, remodeling and altering of buildings, and to contract with the City of Marietta for the construction, reconstruction, altering and changing and closing of streets and alleys. The General Assembly shall be authorized to empower the authority to create special tax districts within the City of Marietta, and to levy and collect taxes within said districts based on values of real property fixed by the tax digest of the City of Marietta, to defray the cost of the foregoing. The authority shall have the power to issue bonds and/or revenue certificates, and to pledge revenues and to levy and collect taxes within said districts for the retirement of said indebtedness. No taxes shall be levied by said authority for any purpose against owner occupied property used exclusively for residential purposes or property used for school or church purposes. The authority shall have the right and power of eminent domain for the purpose of acquiring property in the carrying out of its aims and objectives.
The General Assembly shall provide for all matters relating to the composition of the members of the authority, their terms of office and related matters and the geographical limits within the City of Marietta which shall be subject to the provisions of amendment."
(Ga. L. 1970, p. 1109, Sec. 1)
Editor's note— The above provision was continued as a local constitutional amendment by Ga. L. 1986, p. 4503.
ARTICLE II - AUTHORITY CREATED

Section 4.201 - Created.
Pursuant to the provisions of Article VII, Section VII, Paragraph I of the Constitution, there is hereby created in and for the City of Marietta the Downtown Marietta Development Authority, hereinafter referred to as the "authority."
(a)
The word act shall mean the Act of the General Assembly approved April 10, 1971 (1971 Ga. Laws, p. 3459), as now or hereinafter amended.
(b)
The word authority shall mean the Downtown Marietta Development Authority created pursuant to the act under and by virtue of an amendment (set forth as proposed in 1970 Ga. Laws, p. 1109 and subsequently ratified and proclaimed) to Article VII, Section VII, Paragraph I of the Constitution of the State of Georgia of 1945 (now cited as Article IX, Section VII, Paragraph I of the Constitution of the State of Georgia of 1976).
(c)
The terms cost of the project or cost of any project shall be deemed to mean and shall include: all costs of acquisition (by purchase or otherwise), construction, installation, modification, renovation or rehabilitation of any project or any part of any project; all costs of real or personal property used in or in connection with or necessary for any project or for any facilities related thereto, including the cost of all land, estates for years, easements, rights, improvements, water rights, connections for utility services, fees, franchises, permits, approvals, licenses and certificates, the cost of securing any such franchises, permits, approvals, licenses or certificates and the cost of preparation of any application therefor and the cost of all fixtures, machinery, equipment, furniture and other property used in or in connection with or necessary for any project, all financing charges and loan fees and all interest which accrues or is paid prior to and during the period of construction of a project and for one (1) year after the completion of construction thereof; all costs of engineering, architectural and legal services and all expenses incurred by engineers, architects and attorneys in connection with any project; all inspection expenses; all fees of fiscal agents, paying agents, trustees for bondholders under any trust agreement, indenture of trust or similar instrument, all expenses incurred by any such fiscal agents, paying agents and trustees and all other costs and expenses incurred relative to the issuance of any revenue bonds, notes or other obligations for any project; all costs permitted under section 4.206 of this act; all expenses incident to determining the feasibility or practicability of any project; all costs of plans and specifications for any project; all costs of title insurance and examinations of title; repayment of any loans made for the advance payment of any part of any of the foregoing costs, including interest thereon and other expenses of such loans; administrative expenses of the authority and such other expenses as may be necessary or incident to any project or the financing thereof or the placing of any project in operation; and a fund or funds for the creation of a debt service reserve, a renewal and replacement reserve, or such other funds or reserves as the authority may approve with respect to the financing and operation of any project and as may be authorized by any bond resolution, trust agreement, indenture of trust or similar instrument pursuant to the provisions of which the issuance of any revenue bonds, notes or other obligations of the authority may be authorized. Any cost, obligation or expense incurred for any of the foregoing purposes shall be a part of the cost of the project and may be paid or reimbursed as such out of the proceeds of revenue bonds, notes, or other obligations issued by the authority. Notwithstanding the foregoing, in no event shall entertainment or promotional expense be considered part of the cost of any project.
(d)
The word project shall be deemed to mean and shall include the acquisition, construction, installation, modification, renovation or rehabilitation of buildings, structures, facilities and other improvements located or to be located within the Downtown Marietta District, and the acquisition, installation, modification, renovation, rehabilitation, or furnishing of fixtures, machinery, equipment, furniture and other property of any nature whatsoever used in or in connection with any such building, structure or other improvement, all for the essential public purpose of the redevelopment of the Downtown Marietta District. A project may be for any industrial, commercial, business, office, public or other use, provided that a majority of the members of the authority determine, by a resolution duly adopted, that the project and such use thereof would further the redevelopment of the Downtown Marietta District and the public purpose of this act.
(e)
The terms revenue bonds and bonds shall mean any bonds of the authority which are authorized to be issued under the constitution and laws of the State of Georgia, including refunding bonds.
(Ga. L. 1971, p. 3459, Sec. 1, as amended by Ga. L. 1980, p. 3866, Sec. A)
Amendment note—Subsections (a) through (e) were added by the 1980 act.
Section 4.202 - Members; terms; election; recall.
(a)
The authority shall be composed of eight (8) members to be appointed and elected as hereinafter provided. One (1) member of the authority shall be the ex officio Mayor of the City of Marietta and one (1) member of the authority shall be ex officio Chairman of the Board of Commissioners of Cobb County. Three (3) members of the authority shall be elected by the owners of the property which is subject to the tax provided for in section 4[4.204] of this act. The remaining three (3) members of the authority shall be elected by the owners of business establishments with a licensed place of business located within the Downtown Marietta District. The initial three (3) members of the authority elected by each group of such owners, as provided above, shall serve for terms of office of one (1), two (2) and three (3) years, respectively. Thereafter, all terms of office of members of the authority shall be for three (3) years, except for the mayor and the Chairman of the Board of Commissioners of Cobb County.
(b)
(1) The initial members of the authority to be elected by the property owners and owners of businesses, as provided above, shall be elected in a caucus of each respective owner group, which caucus shall be held within 60 days after this act becomes law and at such time and place as the Mayor of the City of Marietta shall designate after due notice thereof shall have been given to the respective owners. Thereafter, there shall be conducted annually a caucus of each owner group at such time and place as the authority shall designate after having given due notice thereof to the participants for the purpose of electing successors to the initially elected members of the authority. The due notice requirement in this subsection may be met by giving written notice mailed to the last address shown, (1) on the ad valorem tax records of the City of Marietta for the preceding year for owners of property in the Downtown Marietta District, and (2) on the business license records of the City of Marietta for the preceding year for owners of businesses in the Downtown Marietta District with a licensed place of business located within the Downtown Marietta District, at least 10 days prior to the caucus of the owner group given such notice, together with notice published once a week during the two (2) calendar weeks immediately preceding said caucus in the newspaper in Cobb County in which sheriff's advertisements appear. Fifteen percent of the members of each owner group caucus shall constitute a quorum, and any action may be approved by a majority of those present and voting. The lack of a quorum of one owner group shall not prohibit the other owner group from electing a successor, provided that group has a quorum.
(2)
Each property owner shall have one (1) vote regardless of the number of parcels of property owned by such owner, except as otherwise set forth in this subsection. If a parcel of property is owned by more than one (1) person, the vote of the "owner" of that property shall be the vote of the majority of owners; provided, however, that if one of the owners is voting due to his ownership of another parcel, the vote of the "owner" of that property shall be the vote of the majority of the remaining owners. If a parcel of property is owned by a partnership or association, the vote of the "owner" of the property shall be the vote of a majority of the partners or members. A partner or member of an association is the only person empowered to vote for the partnership or association and the partner or member shall not be able to vote for more than one (1) partnership or association. If a parcel of property is owned by a life tenant and remainderman, they shall be considered a partnership for voting purposes. If a parcel of property is owned by a minor or in trust for a minor, the parent, guardian, or trustee shall be empowered to cast the vote for the minor or trust. If a parcel of property is owned by a person who has been adjudicated incompetent, the guardian shall be entitled to cast the vote for said person. If the property is owned by an estate, the vote of the estate shall be exercised by an executor or administrator of the estate. If the property is owned by a corporation, the vote of the corporation shall be exercised by the president or, in his absence, such other officer as may be empowered to vote by the president or the board of directors of the corporation upon proof thereof being submitted to the authority. Should the name of the individual who is voting not appear on the property owner list furnished by the city, the person conducting the election may require proof of ownership of property within the district by presentation of a copy of the owner's deed and, if the entity is a partnership, association, or corporation, a copy of the partnership agreement or minutes of the meeting designating such person as the voting owner, member, or officer.
(3)
The owner of a business establishment with a licensed place of business located within the Downtown Marietta District shall have one (1) vote regardless of the number of places of business located therein. If a business is owned by more than one (1) person, the vote of the "owner" of that business shall be the vote of the majority of owners. If the business is owned by an association or a partnership, the vote of the "owner" of that business shall be the vote of the majority of the partners or members of the association. If the business is owned by an estate, the vote of the "owner" of that business shall be cast by an executor or administrator of the estate. If the business is owned by a corporation, the vote of the "owner" of that business shall be exercised by its president or such other officer as may be empowered to vote by the corporation's president or board of directors upon proof thereof being submitted to the authority. If the name of the individual who is voting does not appear on the business owner list provided by the city, the person conducting the election may require that business owner to submit a copy of his, her, or its business license or a receipt from the purchase of the business and, if there is more than one (1) owner, minutes of the meeting designating such person as the voting owner, member, or officer, provided this list shall not authorize a vote for one on said list who does not hold a current valid business license in the Downtown Marietta District.
(4)
All votes shall be exercised in person by owners whether individuals, designated voting partners, designated voting members of an association, guardians, trustees, parents of a minor, or officers of a corporation, and no votes by proxy shall be permitted.
(5)
To be qualified to be an elected member of the authority, an individual must be eligible to vote in the owner group by which he is elected. If an elected member of the authority is no longer an eligible voter in the group which he is elected to represent, such ineligibility shall automatically vacate the position he holds. A special election to fill any vacancy shall be held at the next annual caucus of owners or earlier if a date for the special election is set by a majority of the remaining members of the authority. Alternatively, any vacancies in office on the board of the authority may be filled by vote of the remaining members of the board at any meeting, such appointed member to serve until the next annual caucus of owners, when the vacancy shall then be filled by a special election held simultaneously with the regular election to fill the unexpired term.
(c)
In the event that 20 percent of the total number of the members of any owner group shall petition the authority, the authority shall call a caucus for the purpose of recalling any member named to the authority by such group. At such a caucus, if a majority of those owners present and voting shall vote to recall any such member of the authority, such owner group shall elect a successor to such recalled member to serve out the term of office formerly occupied by the recalled member. No petition for the recall of any single member of the authority shall be filed within a 12 month period subsequent to the filing of any previous referendum for the recall of such member.
(d)
All persons required to give notice of meeting and caucus dates shall exercise reasonable care so that as nearly as practical all persons entitled to notice of such meeting shall be apprised of such times and places.
(e)
Any four (4) members of the authority shall constitute a quorum for the transaction of the ordinary business of the authority; however, any resolution of the authority authorizing the issuance of revenue bonds, notes or other obligations for any project of the authority must be approved by a majority vote of the members of the authority.
(Ga. L. 1971, p. 3459, Sec. 2; as amended by Ga. L. 1978, p. 3642, Sec. 1; Ga. L. 1980, p. 3866, Sec. B; Ga. L. 1990, p. 3921, Secs. 1, 2)
Amendment note—The last sentence of subsection (b) and subsection (e) were added by the 1980 act. The 1990 act amended paragraphs (a) and (b) re membership.
Section 4.203 - Downtown district boundaries.
There is hereby created within the City of Marietta the Downtown Marietta District which shall be composed of all that territory embraced within the following description: All that tract or parcel of land lying and being in the City of Marietta, Georgia, and being more particularly described as follows:
Beginning at the intersection of the centerline of Church Street and the centerline of Lemon Street; thence running in an easterly direction, along the centerline of Lemon Street, to the centerline of Cole Street; thence running in a southerly direction, along the centerline of Cole Street, to the centerline of Roswell Street; thence running in an easterly direction along the centerline of Roswell Street, to the centerline of Coryell Street; thence running in a southerly direction, along the centerline of Coryell Street, for a distance of 334 feet, more or less; thence running in a westerly direction, for a distance of 740 feet, more or less, to the centerline of Alexander Street; thence running in a northerly direction, along the centerline of Alexander Street, for a distance of five (5) feet, more or less; thence running in a westerly direction, for a distance of 225 feet, more or less; thence running in a southerly direction for a distance of 1,003 feet more or less; thence running in a westerly direction, for a distance of 324 feet, more or less; thence running in a southerly direction, for a distance of 90 feet, more or less; thence running in a westerly direction, for a distance of 114 feet, more or less; thence running in a southerly direction, for a distance of 135 feet, more or less; to the centerline of Frasier Street; thence running in a westerly direction, along the centerline of Frasier Street, to the centerline of Atlanta Street; thence running in a northerly direction, along the centerline of Atlanta Street, to the centerline of Goss Street; thence running in a westerly direction, along the centerline of Goss Street, to the centerline of Powder Springs Street; thence running in a northerly direction, along the centerline of Powder Springs Street, to the centerline of Trammell Street; thence running in a westerly direction, along the centerline of Trammell Street, for a distance of 110 feet, more or less; thence running in a northerly direction, along the west boundary line of the Southwest Urban Renewal Area (Project GAR-16), for a distance of 105 feet, more or less, to the west right-of-way line of the Powder Springs Street-Polk Street Connector (Project SP-1580); thence running in a northerly direction along said right-of-way line, for a distance of 40 feet; thence running in a westerly direction, along said urban renewal boundary line, for a distance of 45 feet; thence running in a northerly direction, along said boundary line, for a distance of 60 feet, to the west right-of-way line of the said connector; thence running in a northerly direction, along said right-of-way line, for a distance of 70 feet, more or less; thence running in a westerly direction, along said urban renewal boundary line, for a distance of 130 feet; thence running in a northerly direction, along said boundary line, for a distance of 82.6 feet; thence running in a northeasterly direction, along said boundary line, for a distance of 130 feet; thence running in a westerly direction, along said boundary line, for a distance of 40 feet; thence running in a northerly direction, along said boundary line, for a distance of 25 feet; thence running in a westerly direction, along said boundary line, for a distance of 10.4 feet; thence running in a northwesterly direction, along said boundary line for a distance of 130 feet, to the south right-of-way line of Crescent Circle; thence running in a northerly direction, for a distance of 70 feet, more or less; thence running in a westerly direction, along said boundary line, for a distance of 260 feet; thence running in a northerly direction, along said boundary line, for a distance of 16.7 feet; thence running in a westerly direction, along said boundary line, for a distance of 127.5 feet; thence running in a southerly direction, along said boundary line for a distance of 204 feet, more or less; thence running in a westerly direction, along side boundary line for a distance of 139 feet, more or less; thence running in a northerly direction, along said boundary line, for a distance of 42 feet, more or less; thence running in an easterly direction, along said boundary line, for a distance of 14 feet, more or less; thence running in a northerly direction, along said boundary line, for a distance of 60 feet, more or less; thence running in a westerly direction, along said boundary line, for a distance of 58 feet, more or less; thence running in a northerly direction, along said boundary line, for a distance of 303 feet, more or less; to the north right-of-way line of Henderson Street; thence running in an easterly direction, along said right-of-way line, for a distance of 25 feet, more or less; thence running in a northerly direction, along said boundary line, for a distance of 95 feet; thence running in an easterly direction, along said boundary line, for a distance of 100 feet; thence running in a northerly direction, along said boundary line, for a distance of 53.9 feet; thence running in an easterly direction, along said boundary line, for a distance of 96 feet; thence running in a northerly direction, along said boundary line, for a distance of 86.2 feet; thence running in an easterly direction, along said boundary line, for a distance of 139.3 feet; thence running in a northerly direction, along said boundary, for a distance of 360 feet, to the centerline of Whitlock Avenue; thence running in a westerly direction along said centerline, for a distance of 550 feet, more or less; thence running in a northerly direction, for a distance of 445 feet, more or less; thence running in an easterly direction, for a distance of 230 feet, more or less; thence running in a northerly direction for a distance of 296.9 feet, more or less; thence running in a westerly direction, along said boundary line, for a distance of 20 feet; thence running in a northerly direction, along said boundary line, for a distance of 420 feet, to the centerline of Polk Street; thence running in an easterly direction, along said centerline to the point of beginning.
Also, all that tract or parcel of land lying and being in Land Lot 1290 of the 16th District, 2nd Section, Cobb County, Georgia, and being more particularly described as follows:
Beginning at a point on the north line of Land Lot 1290, which point also lies at the southwest corner of the intersection of the right of way of Trammell Street and Powder Springs Street; thence running south 59 degrees 22 minutes east 45.0 feet along said southwest corner of that intersection to a point; thence running southerly along the western right of way of Powder Springs Street 172.2 feet to a point; thence running south 20 degrees 25 minutes west 24.5 feet along the northeast corner of the intersection of the rights of way of Reynolds Street and Powder Springs Street to a point; thence running south 88 degrees 41 minutes west 372.0 feet along the north right of way of Reynolds Street to a point; thence running south 81 degrees 36 minutes west 54.88 feet along said north right of way of Reynolds Street to a point; thence running north 00 degrees 26 minutes west 112.6 feet to a point; thence running south 89 degrees 52 minutes east 66.4 feet to a point; thence running north 89 degrees 30 minutes east 235.4 feet to a point; thence running north 00 degrees 00 minutes east 119.4 feet to a point on the south right of way of Trammell Street; thence running north 89 degrees 30 minutes east 71.4 feet along said south right of way of Trammell Street to a point, which point marks the point of beginning; being lots 30 and 31 in Part II Resubdivision of Southwest Urban Renewal Area GA R-16, as set forth on plat of survey recorded on January 17, 1973 in Plat Book 57, Page 53, Cobb County, Georgia Records, together with that property lying between the foregoing and the center line of Powder Springs Street.
Also, all that tract or parcel of land lying and being in Land Lot 1290 of the 16th District, 2nd Section, Cobb County, Georgia, and more particularly described as follows:
Beginning at the land lot corner of Land Lots 1290, 1291, 1230 and 1231, thence south 0 degrees 8 minutes 22 seconds west a distance of 245.44 feet to an iron pin at the right of way of Reynolds Street; thence along said right of way of said Reynolds Street north 88 degrees 30 minutes 05 seconds east a distance of 71.35 feet to an iron pin; thence continuing along said right of way north 84 degrees 11 minutes 03 seconds east a distance of 106.75 feet to an iron pin; thence north 0 degrees 26 minutes west along the boundary of the Downtown Marietta District and other property a distance of 115.43 feet to an iron pin; thence north 86 degrees 58 minutes 09 seconds west a distance of 9.35 feet to an iron pin; thence north 01 degrees 03 minutes west a distance of 120.54 feet to an iron pin on the south right of way of Trammell Street; thence south 88 degrees 42 minutes 51 seconds west a distance of 164.55 feet along the right of way of said Trammell Street to an iron pin and the point of beginning.
Also, all that tract or parcel of land lying and being in Land Lot 1231 of the 16th District, 2nd Section, Cobb County, Georgia, being more particularly described as follows:
Beginning at a right of way marker at the intersection of the northerly right of way of Crescent Circle with the westerly right of way of Powder Springs Connector, and running thence southwesterly along the boundary of the Downtown Marietta District and along the right of way of Crescent Circle and following the curvature thereof a total of 190.4 feet to a corner and property of Alice Heck; running thence northwesterly 122 feet along said property to an iron pin; running thence northerly 35.7 feet to a fence corner; running thence easterly along property of the City of Marietta on which is located the Total Activities Center 255.4 feet to the point of beginning.
Also, all that tract or parcel of land lying and being in Land Lot 1290 of the 16th District, 2nd Section, City of Marietta, Cobb County, Georgia, and being more particularly described as follows:
Beginning at the intersection of the south side of Reynolds Street and the west side of Powder Springs Road, and running thence southerly along Powder Springs Road 222 feet, more or less, to the center line of the abandoned right of way of West Goss Street; running thence westerly along the center line of the abandoned right of way of West Goss Street 495 feet, more or less, to an alley; running thence northerly along said alley 214 feet to the south side of Reynolds Street; running thence easterly along the south side of Reynolds Street 505 feet, more or less, to the west side of Powder Springs Road and the point of beginning.
Also, all that tract or parcel of land lying and being in Land Lot 1290 of the 16th District, 2nd Section, City of Marietta, Cobb County, Georgia, and being more particularly described as follows:
Beginning at the intersection of the center line of the abandoned right of way of West Goss Street with the west side of the right of way of Power Springs Road, and running thence southerly along the west side of Powder Springs Road 124 feet to a point and corner; running thence westerly 294.3 feet to a point and corner; running thence northerly 124 feet to a point and corner on the center line of the abandoned right of way of West Goss Street; running thence easterly along the center line of the abandoned right of way of West Goss Street 289 feet to the point of beginning.
Also, all that tract or parcel of land lying and being in Land Lot 1291 of the 16th District, 2nd Section, City of Marietta, Cobb County, Georgia, and being more particularly described as follows:
Beginning at the northeast corner of Land Lot 1291 where the east line of said Land Lot intersects the south side of Trammell Street, and running thence south 0 degrees 08 minutes 22 seconds west along property owned by Philip L. Secrist and along the west line of the Downtown Marietta District 245.44 feet to the north side of Reynolds Street; running thence westerly along the north side of Reynolds Street 180 feet, more or less, to the property now or formerly owned by Bassler; running thence northerly along said Bassler property 250 feet, more or less, to the south side of Trammell Street; running thence easterly along the south side of Trammell Street 180 feet, more or less, to the point of beginning and being known as Nos. 143-145 Trammell Street, Marietta, Georgia.
Also included are those portions of the rights of way of Powder Springs Road and Reynolds Street bounded on both sides by property within the District and annexed property, and bounded on both sides by annexed property.
Also, all that tract or parcel of land lying and being in Land Lots 1218, 1219, 1230 and 1231 of the 16th District, 2nd Section, City of Marietta, Cobb County, Georgia, and being more particularly described as follows:
Beginning at a point on the south side of Whitlock Avenue at the intersection thereof with the west side of Powder Springs Street, and running thence westerly along the south side of Whitlock Avenue 95 feet to property of the City of Marietta known as the Dosser House, and running thence southerly along said Marietta property 267 feet to a point and corner; running thence easterly along property of the YWCA 178 feet to a point and corner on the west side of Powder Springs Street; running thence northerly along the west side of Powder Springs Street 253 feet to a point and corner; running thence northwesterly along Powder Springs Street 54 feet to its point of intersection with the south side of Whitlock Avenue and the point of beginning.
Also, all that tract or parcel of land lying and being in Land Lots 1219 and 1230 of the 16th District, 2nd Section, City of Marietta, Cobb County, Georgia, and being more particularly described as follows:
Beginning at a concrete marker located on the southerly right of way of Whitlock Avenue 97 feet east of the intersection thereof with the east side of Wright Street, and running thence easterly along the southerly right of way of Whitlock Avenue 90 feet to a point and corner; running thence southerly 320.7 feet to an iron pin and corner; running thence westerly for a distance of 96.3 feet to an iron pin and corner; running thence northerly for a distance of 328.9 feet to the concrete marker at the point of beginning.
Also, all that tract or parcel of land lying and being in Land Lots 1219 and 1230 of the 16th District, 2nd Section, City of Marietta, Cobb County, Georgia, and being more particularly described as follows:
Beginning at the intersection of the south side of Whitlock Avenue and the east side of Wright Street and running thence easterly along Whitlock Avenue 97 feet to a concrete marker; running thence southerly 325 feet to a point and corner; running thence westerly 97 feet along the south side of a 10-foot easement to the east side of Wright Street; running thence northerly along the east side of Wright Street 335 feet to the point of beginning.
Also, all that tract or parcel of land lying and being in Land Lot 1159 of the 16th District, 2nd Section, City of Marietta, Cobb County, Georgia, and being more particularly described as follows:
Beginning at an iron pin on the north side of the sidewalk of Lemon Street 75.5 feet east of the intersection thereof with the east side of Church Street at the southeast corner of property belonging to the City of Marietta (formerly known as the Clarke Library); and running thence east along the north side of Lemon Street 93 feet to an iron pin at the southwest corner of property now or formerly belonging to Cogburn 133.5 feet west of the west side of Cherokee Street; running thence north 100 feet to an iron pin and corner; running thence west 91.6 feet to an iron pin and corner; running thence south along City of Marietta property 98.8 feet to the iron pin at the point of beginning.
Also, all that tract or parcel of land lying and being in Land Lot 1159 of the 16th District, 2nd Section, City of Marietta, Cobb County, Georgia, and being more particularly described as follows:
Beginning at a point on the west side of Cherokee Street 91 feet north of the intersection thereof with the north side of Lemon Street, and running thence west 131 feet to an iron pin and corner; running thence north 92 feet to a corner; running thence east 131 feet to the west side of Cherokee Street; running thence south along the west side of Cherokee Street for a distance of 91 feet to the point of beginning.
Also, all that tract or parcel of land lying and being in Land Lot 1159 of the 16th District, 2nd Section, City of Marietta, Cobb County, Georgia, and being more particularly described as follows:
Beginning at the intersection of the east side of Church Street and the south side of Ardis Street, and running thence easterly along the south side of Ardis Street 310 feet to the west side of Cherokee Street; running thence southerly along Cherokee Street 100 feet to a point and corner; running thence westerly 310 feet to a point and corner on the east side of Church Street running thence northerly along the east side of Church Street 100 feet to the point of beginning.
Also, all that tract or parcel of land lying and being in Land Lot 1159 of the 16th District, 2nd Section, City of Marietta, Cobb County, Georgia, and being more particularly described as follows:
Beginning at an iron pin on the southeast corner of the intersection of Cherokee Street and Forest Avenue, and running thence easterly along the south side of Forest Avenue 65 feet to an iron pin and corner; running thence southerly 164.53 feet to a point and corner on the south side of an ingress and egress easement; running thence westerly 65 feet along the south side of said easement to a point and corner on the east side of Cherokee Street; running thence northerly along the east side of Cherokee Street 164.53 feet to the point of beginning.
Also, all that tract or parcel of land lying and being in Land Lot 1159 of the 16th District, 2nd Section, City of Marietta, Cobb County, Georgia, and being more particularly described as follows:
Beginning at an iron pin on the east side of Cherokee Street 53.5 feet north of the intersection thereof with the north side of Lemon Street, and running thence northerly along the east side of Cherokee Street 94 feet to an iron pin and corner on the south side of an ingress and egress easement; running thence easterly 273 feet to an iron pin and corner; running thence southerly 94 feet to an iron pin and corner; running thence westerly 273 feet to an iron pin and corner on the east side of Cherokee Street and the point of beginning.
Also, all that tract or parcel of land lying and being in the City of Marietta, Cobb County, Georgia, and being known as No. 301 Washington Avenue, and being more particularly described as follows:
Beginning at the intersection of the north side of Washington Avenue with the east side of Cole Street, and running thence in an easterly direction 108.18 feet along the north side of Washington Avenue to an iron pin; running thence in a northerly direction a distance of 135.53 feet to an iron pin; running thence west a distance of 108.77 feet to an iron pin located on the east side of Cole Street; running thence south and along the east side of Cole Street a distance of 141.35 feet to the point of beginning.
Also, all that tract or parcel of land lying and being in Land Lot 1290 of the 16th District, 2nd Section, City of Marietta, Cobb County, Georgia, and being more particularly described as follows:
Beginning at an iron pin on the west side of Powder Springs Street, 346 feet south of the intersection thereof with the south side of Reynolds Street, and running thence south along Powder Springs Street 700 feet, more or less, to the north side of Griggs Street; running thence west along Griggs Street 132 feet to a point and corner; running thence north along the rear lines of those lots fronting on Powder Springs Street 620 feet, more or less, to the south boundary of the Downtown Marietta District; running thence east along the south boundary of the Downtown Marietta District 294.3 feet to the point of beginning.
Also, all that tract or parcel of land lying and being in Land Lot 1216 of the 16th District, 2nd Section, City of Marietta, Cobb County, Georgia, being more particularly described as follows:
Beginning at the intersection of the center lines of Lawrence Street and Cole Street (Cole Street being the existing east boundary of the Downtown Marietta District), and running thence north along Cole Street 200 feet to a point and corner; running thence east 130 feet, more or less, along the north line of the corner lot to a point and corner; running thence south along the east line of said corner lot 200 feet to the center line of Lawrence Street; continuing thence south along the east line of properties fronting on Cole Street 200 feet, more or less, to the north line of the Johnson property; running thence west along the north line of the Johnson property 120 feet, more or less, to the center line of Cole Street; running thence north along the center line of Cole Street and the east boundary of the District 200 feet to the point of beginning.
Also, all that tract or parcel of land lying and being in Land Lot 1219 of the 16th District, 2nd Section, City of Marietta, Cobb County, Georgia, being more particularly described as follows:
Beginning at the intersection of the south side of Whitlock Avenue and the west side of Wright Street, and running thence south along Wright Street 279 feet to a point and corner; running thence west 240 feet to a point and corner, running thence north 279.5 feet to a point and corner on the south side of Whitlock Avenue; running thence east along Whitlock Avenue 249.5 feet to the point of beginning.
Also, all that tract or parcel of land lying and being in Land Lot 1159 of the 16th District, 2nd Section, City of Marietta, Cobb County, Georgia, being more particularly described as follows:
Beginning at the intersection of the west side of Cherokee Street and the north side of Ardis Street; running thence north along the west side of Cherokee Street 263 feet to an iron pin; thence running west forming an interior angle of 91 degrees 11 minutes a distance of 148 feet to an iron pin; thence running south forming an interior angle of 89 degrees 56 minutes a distance of 78 feet to an iron pin; thence running east forming an interior angle of 89 degrees 49 minutes a distance of 58 feet to an iron pin; thence running south forming an exterior angle of 89 degrees 27 minutes a distance of 105.7 feet to an iron pin; thence running south parallel to Cherokee Street 5 feet to a corner; running thence west parallel to Ardis Street 170 feet to the east side of Church Street; running thence south along the east side of Church Street 75 feet to the intersection thereof with the north side of Ardis Street; running thence east along the north side of Ardis Street 270 feet to the west side of Cherokee Street and the point of beginning.
Also, all that tract or parcel of land lying and being in Land Lot 1158 of the 16th District, 2nd Section, City of Marietta, Cobb County, Georgia, and being more particularly described as follows:
Beginning at the intersection of the north side of Polk Street's 40 foot right of way with the west side of Locust Street's 30 foot right of way and running thence northerly along Locust Street 105.7 feet to an iron pin; running thence westerly parallel to Polk Street 92 feet to an iron pin; running thence southerly parallel to Locust Street 105.7 feet to an iron pin on the north side of Polk Street; running thence easterly along the north side of Polk Street 92 feet to the point of beginning.
Also, all that tract or parcel of land lying and being in Land Lot 1159 of the 16th District, 2nd Section, City of Marietta, Cobb County, Georgia, being more particularly described as follows:
Beginning at the intersection of the north side of Lemon Street and the east side of Cherokee Street and running thence north along the east side of Cherokee Street 85 feet to an iron pin; running thence north 89 degrees 30 minutes east 64.8 feet to an iron pin; running thence south 1 degree 16 minutes east 85 feet to an iron pin on the north side of Lemon Street; running thence west along the north side of Lemon Street 64.1 feet to the east side of Cherokee Street and the point of beginning.
Also, all that tract or parcel of land lying and being in Land Lot 1216 of the 16th District, 2nd Section, City of Marietta, Cobb County, Georgia, being more particularly described as follows:
Beginning at the intersection of Lawrence Street and Cole Street and running thence north along Lawrence Street 170 feet to a point; running thence east along the north lines of properties fronting on Lawrence Street 280 feet more or less to the west line of property now owned by William R. Waldrop; running thence north 102.3 feet to Waldrop's northeast corner; running thence east 90.26 feet to Waldrop's northeast corner; running thence south 245.8 feet to Lawrence Street; running thence east along the north side of Lawrence Street 19.1 feet to a point; running thence south across Lawrence Street and along the east line of Anthony Kirkland et al. 174 feet more or less to the southeast corner of Kirkland et al; running thence north 43 feet to the northeast corner of property of the Autrey Trust; running thence south 175.87 feet to the southeast corner of Autrey and the north side of Washington Avenue; running thence west along the north side of Washington Avenue 434.78 feet more or less to the centerline of Cole Street; running thence north 315 feet more or less to the centerline of Lawrence Street and the point of beginning, comprising 313, 315, 321, 324, 329, and 332 Lawrence Street and 315 and 331 Washington Avenue, and those properties fronting on the east side of Cole Street between Washington Avenue and Lawrence Street, and the property at the northeast corner of Lawrence Street and Cole Street, Marietta, Georgia.
Also, all that tract or parcel of land lying and being in Land Lot 1159 of the 16th District, 2nd Section, City of Marietta, Cobb County, Georgia, and being more particularly described as follows:
Beginning at the intersection of the centerline of Polk Street and the centerline of the right of way of the L & N Railroad and running thence north along said railroad right of way to the intersection thereof with the centerline of the right of way of the Marietta Loop as finally determined; running thence southwesterly along said Marietta Loop to the intersection thereof with Polk Street; running thence easterly along Polk Street to the point of beginning;
Also, all rights of way of Roswell Street from Cobb Parkway to Washington Avenue, Cobb Parkway from Roswell Street to Clay Street (Ga. 120 Loop, South), Clay Street and Ga. 120 Loop, South from Cobb Parkway to Powder Springs Street, and Fairground Street from Clay Street to Roswell Street, as well as all properties fronting thereon the owners of which request annexation into the Downtown Marietta District in writing to the authority and which are approved by the Marietta City Council.
Also, all that tract or parcel of land lying and being in Land Lots 1237, 1238, 1283 and 1284 of the 16th District, 2nd Section, City of Marietta, Cobb County, Georgia, and being more particularly described as follows:
Beginning at an iron pin located on the southwesterly right of way line of U.S. Highway 41 (Cobb Parkway), said iron pin marking the point where said right of way line is intersected by the south line of said Land Lot 1283, said line also being the line dividing the 16th and 17th Districts of said county; running thence North 89 degrees 42 minutes 48 seconds West along the south line of Land Lot 1283 and along the south line of Land Lot 1234, a distance of 1335.61 feet to an iron pin; running thence North 89 degrees 39 minutes 00 seconds West along the south line of Land Lot 1284, a distance of 1109.34 feet to an iron pin; running thence North 00 degrees 23 minutes 40 seconds West along the west line of Land Lot 1284, a distance of 827.10 feet to a point; running thence North 89 degrees 36 minutes 20 seconds East a distance of 75.00 feet to a point; running thence North 00 degrees 23 minutes 40 seconds West a distance of 75.00 feet to a point; running thence South 89 degrees 36 minutes 20 seconds West a distance of 75.00 feet to a point on the west line of Land Lot 1284; running thence North 00 degrees 23 minutes 40 seconds West along the west line of Land Lot 1284 and along the west line of Land Lot 1237, a distance of 253.60 feet to an iron pin; running thence South 89 degrees 41 minutes 30 seconds East a distance of 902.00 feet to an iron pin; running thence North 00 degrees 30 minutes 00 seconds West a distance of 544.20 feet to an iron pin; running thence South 89 degrees 33 minutes 40 seconds East a distance of 759.62 feet to an iron pin on the southwesterly right of way line of said Cobb Parkway; running thence South 25 degrees 03 minutes 30 seconds East along said right of way line, a distance of 1879.61 feet to the iron pin at the point of beginning:
Also, all those tracts of land contiguous to the present or future boundaries of the authority which have historically been considered in downtown Marietta, the owners of which request annexation into the Downtown District in writing to the authority and which are approved by the writing to the authority and which are approved by the Marietta City Council.
Also, the following tracts of land:
Tract 1. All that tract or parcel of land lying and being in Land Lots 361, 431, and 432 of the 17th District, 2nd Section, City of Marietta, Cobb County, Georgia, as shown on plat entitled: "As-Built" of the Clay Street Project for Marietta Housing Authority, by Southern Surveying & Mapping Co., Inc., dated April 17, 1988, containing 11.95 acres, and being more particularly described as follows:
Beginning at an iron pin on the south side of the 100 foot wide right of way of South Marietta Parkway (formerly Clay Street) 657.34 feet east of the intersection thereof with the east side of Fairground Street, as marked by a concrete monument, as measured along the south side of South Marietta Parkway, and running thence easterly along the south side of said right of way 2,042.44 feet to an iron pin at the intersection thereof with the line dividing Land Lots 431 and 434 of said 17th District; running thence South 00° 33′ 04″ East along said land lot line 363.19 feet to an iron pin; running thence north 72° 03′ 39″ West 320.42 feet to an iron pin; running thence North 18° 00′ 51″ East 251.13 feet to an iron pin; running thence North 71° 47′ 42″ West 443.73 feet to an iron pin; running thence South 18° 53′ 41″ West 67.54 feet to an iron pin; running thence North 71° 03′ 28″ West 26.10 feet to an iron pin; running thence South 49° 18′ 10″ West 125.81 feet to an iron pin; running thence North 40° 20′ 30″ West 197.85 feet to an iron pin; running thence North 18° 17′ 48″ East 237.53 feet to a railroad spike; running thence North 71° 42′ 29″ West 309.97 feet to an iron pin; running thence North 71° 22′ 18″ West 253.81 feet to a fence corner; running thence North 26° 51′ 26″ East 9.85 feet to an iron pin; running thence North 71° 13′ 39″ West 523.60 feet to an iron pin; running thence North 00° 01′ 00″ West 156.10 feet to the iron pin at the point of beginning.
Tract 2. All that tract or parcel of land lying and being in Land Lots 1289 and 1290 of the 16th District and 217 and 288 of the 17th District, 2nd Section of Cobb County, Marietta, Georgia and being more particularly described as follows:
Beginning at a point where the northerly right of way line of Griggs Street intersects the westerly right of way line of Powder Springs Street; thence running in a northerly direction along the westerly right-of-way line of Powder Springs Street (and the present Downtown Marietta District) to a point, said point being where the northerly right of way line of West Atlanta Street (if extended across Powder Springs Street) would form an intersection with the westerly right of way line of Powder Springs Street; thence running in a easterly direction crossing Powder Springs Street and continuing along the northerly right of way line of West Atlanta Street (this section of West Atlanta Street was formerly known as Goss Street) and the Downtown Marietta District to a point on the westerly right of way line of the L & N Railroad; thence continuing in a easterly direction along the present Downtown Marietta District boundary to a point on the easterly right of way line of Atlanta Street; thence running in a southerly direction along the easterly right of way line of Atlanta Street to a point where the northerly right of way line of Clay Street intersects the easterly right of way line of Atlanta Street; thence running westerly crossing Atlanta Street, L & N Railroad and West Atlanta Street to a point where the southerly right of way line of Cemetery Street intersects the westerly right of way line of West Atlanta Street; thence running in a westerly direction along the southerly right of way line of Cemetery Street to a point on the easterly right of way line of Powder Springs Street; thence running in a southerly direction along the easterly right of way line of Powder Springs Street to a point where said right of way line intersects the northerly right of way line of West Dixie Avenue; thence running in a westerly direction and crossing Powder Springs Street to a point where the northerly right of way line of Club Drive intersects the westerly right of way line of Powder Springs Street; thence running in a northerly direction along the westerly right of way line of Powder Springs Street to a point where said right of way line intersects the southerly right of way line of Griggs Street; thence running in a westerly direction along said right of way line for a distance of 200 feet, more or less, to a point; thence running in a northerly direction to a point on the northerly right of way line of Griggs Street; thence running in a easterly direction along said right of way line to the point of beginning.
The above described boundary includes the Marietta Cemetery, Confederate Cemetery and portions of Powder Springs Street, West Atlanta Street, Atlanta Street and L. & N. Railroad and Cemetery Street.
Tract 3. All that tract or parcel of land lying and being in Land Lots 216 and 217 of the 17th District, 2nd Section, City of Marietta, Cobb County, Georgia, and being more particularly described as follows:
Beginning at the intersection of the south side of Griggs Street and the west side of Powder Springs Street and running thence southerly along the west side of Powder Springs Street 115.8 feet; continuing thence southerly 334 feet, more or less, to the property of the Marietta Country Club; running thence westerly along the north line of said Marietta County Club property 822 feet, more or less to the unopened right of way of Wright Street; running thence northerly along the unopened right of way of Wright Street 276 feet, more or less, to property formerly subdivided by Griggs shown in Plat Book 3, page 20, Cobb County records; running thence westerly along the southerly side of said subdivided lots 652 feet, more or less to the southeast corner of Lot 88 shown on said plat; running thence northerly along the east side of said Lot 88 a distance of 114 feet to Griggs Street; thence easterly along Griggs Street 200 feet to the point of beginning.
Tract 4. All that tract or parcel of land lying and being in Land Lots 1292 and 1293 of the 16th District and Land Lots 143, 144, 145, 146, 215, 216, and 217 of the 17th District, 2nd Section, Cobb County, Georgia, being known as the Marietta Country Club property, and being more particularly described as follows:
Beginning at the intersection of the northwest side of Powder Springs Street and the north side of Club Drive and running thence northeasterly along the northwesterly side of Powder Springs Street 522.3 feet to an iron pin at the southeast corner of Tract 3 above; thence north 80° 06′ west along the south side of Tract 3 and other property 1,530.8 feet to an iron pin; thence North 15° 19′ west 86.1 feet to a point; thence North 06° 44′ west 385 feet to the district line dividing District 16 and District 17; thence west along said district line 857.7 feet to a point on the south side of South Hillcrest Drive; thence northeasterly along and following the curvature of the southwesterly side of South Hillcrest Drive 632.5 feet to an iron pin; thence South 191.5 feet to the northwest corner of Land Lot 145; thence continuing south along the west line of Land Lot 145 a distance of 260 feet to an iron pin; thence southwesterly at an interior angle of 240° 30′ a distance of 280 feet to a point; thence continuing southwesterly at an interior angle of 182° a distance of 199.5 feet to an iron pin; thence southeasterly at an interior angle of 81° 34′ a distance of 55 feet to an iron pin; thence southwesterly at an interior angle of 223° 30′ a distance of 164.7 feet to an iron pin; thence southwesterly at an interior angle of 236° 38′ a distance of 323 feet to an iron pin on the east line of Lot 9, Whitlock Heights Extension One (hereinafter `said subdivision'); thence southeasterly along said Lot 9 at an interior angle of 85° 40′ a distance of 42 feet to a concrete marker; thence continuing southeasterly at an interior angle of 162° 33′ along the northeast line of Lots 10 and 11 of said subdivision 328 feet to a concrete marker; thence southeasterly at an interior angle of 208° 28′ along the east line of Lot 12 of said subdivision 191.5 feet to a concrete marker; thence west at an exterior angle of 72° 30′ along the south line of said Lot 12 a distance of 238 feet to a point on the northeasterly side of South Woodland Drive; thence southeasterly along the northeastern side of South Woodland Drive 45.3 feet to a point at the northwest corner of Lot 28 of said subdivision; thence easterly along the north line of said Lot 28 and the south side of the 40 foot right of way of Chinquapin Drive (sometimes referred to as Club Drive) 251.6 feet to a concrete marker; thence continuing easterly along the south side of said right of way 348.62 feet to an iron pin on the land lot line dividing Land Lots 143 and 146; thence south along said land lot line 1,044.2 feet to an iron pin 271.5 feet north of the southwest corner of Land Lot 146; thence South 88° 44′ East 237.2 feet to a concrete marker; thence South 00° 08′ East 265.7 feet to an iron pin on the south line of Land Lot 146; thence east along said south land lot line 1,127.5 feet to an iron pin at the southeast corner of said Land Lot 146; thence north along the east land lot line of said Land Lot 146 a distance of 967.8 feet to an iron pin; thence North 89° 56′ East 639.8 feet to an iron pin; thence east along the north side of Grambling Street 308.25 feet to the east side of Club Access Drive; thence north along the east side of Club Access Drive 431.3 feet to the north side of Club Drive; thence east along the north side of Club Drive 630.42 feet to the point of beginning.
(Ga. L. 1971, p. 3459, Sec. 3, as amended by Ga. L. 1980, p. 3866, Sec. C; Ga. L. 1981, p. 3736, Sec. 1; Ga. L. 1982, p. 4909, Sec. 1; Ga. L. 1983, p. 3563, Sec. 1; Ga. L. 1985, p. 4506; Ga. L. 1985, p. 4911; Ga. L. 1986, p. 5515, Sec. 1; Ga. L. 1990, p. 5033, Sec. 1)
Section 4.203A - District boundaries for governmental purposes.
For the purpose of any project to be owned, leased, or occupied by an organization now or hereafter described in Section 501(c)(3) of the Internal Revenue Code of the United States of America, or any comparable section of any subsequent such Code or amendments thereto, or for the purpose of any project to be owned, leased or occupied by any governmental agency or agencies for at least 50 percent of its floor space, the Downtown Marietta District shall also include the entire city limits as now or hereafter constituted, of the City of Marietta, provided this shall not extend the taxing district of the authority beyond the boundaries set forth in Section 3 of the act [section 4.203]; provided, however, any project owned, leased, or occupied by a 501(c)(3) organization may be required by the authority as a condition of any financing to pay City of Marietta and Downtown Marietta Development Authority ad valorem taxes on the project financed or make payments to the City of Marietta and the Downtown Marietta Development Authority in lieu of such taxes in like amount of such taxes if such taxes were levied for the duration of any such financing.
(Ga. L. 1983, p. 3563, Sec. 2; Ga. L. 1990, p. 3921, Sec. 3)
Section 4.204 - Taxation.
The authority shall be authorized to levy upon all real property subject to taxation by the authority within the Downtown Marietta District on January 1 of each year, a tax not to exceed 25 mills upon the assessed value of all such property, according to the assessed value of such property for ad valorem tax purposes for the City of Marietta. All taxes levied by the authority shall become due and payable at the same time as ad valorem taxes levied by the City of Marietta.Delinquent taxes shall bear the same interest and penalties as City of Marietta ad valorem taxes.
(Ga. L. 1971, p. 3459, Sec. 4)
Section 4.205 - Powers and duties.
The authority shall have the power:
(1)
to buy, acquire, develop, improve, own, operate, maintain, sell, lease and mortgage land, buildings and property of all kinds and character, including, but not limited to machinery, apparatus, equipment and utilities useful or desirable in connection therewith, within the Downtown Marietta District;
(2)
to receive and administer gifts, grants and donations and to administer trusts and to enter into trust indentures;
(3)
to grant, loan and lease any of its funds and property to private persons and corporations agreeing to operate and expand any commercial or business enterprise or establishment within the Downtown Marietta District, which in the judgment of the governing body of the authority will be of benefit to the economic improvement and development of said district or area;
(4)
to borrow money and issue notes, obligations and revenue bonds therefor and to sell, convey, mortgage, pledge and assign any and all of its funds, property and income as security for the payment thereof and interest thereon and to secure the repayment of any such money so borrowed by the terms of the resolution authorizing such financing and to enter into a trust indenture relative thereto;
(5)
to appoint and employ officers, agents and employees and to provide for their compensation in order to effectuate the purposes of this act;
(5A)
the authority shall have the duty to provide within the Downtown Marietta District a program of pigeon control. This program shall be designed and operated so as to prevent pigeons from perching, roosting, or nesting in certain overhead areas or positions within the Downtown Marietta District. The overhead areas and positions to be subject to such control program shall be those areas and positions wherein perching, roosting, or nesting pigeons will inconvenience pedestrian or vehicular traffic below or will otherwise impair the authority's purpose of redevelopment of the Downtown Marietta District. The authority may utilize any otherwise available funds for this pigeon control program and, if necessary, shall exercise its powers of taxation to raise sufficient revenues for such program;
(6)
to encourage and promote the economic improvement, development and rehabilitation of the Downtown Marietta District and to make long-range plans therefor in cooperation with the planning developments of the City of Marietta and Cobb County;
(7)
to accumulate its funds from such tax levy herein authorized from year to year and to invest and reinvest such funds;
(8)
to designate any of its officers to sign and act for the authority pertaining to the rights, powers and privileges herein conferred;
(9)
to do any and all acts and things necessary, convenient or desirable to accomplish the purpose of this act and the rights, powers and privileges herein conferred;
(10)
to contract with the City of Marietta for the collection of any taxes levied by the authority;
(11)
to adopt such bylaws governing the conduct of the affairs of the authority and to elect such officers as the authority shall deem necessary;
(12)
to exercise all of the powers vested in the authority by Article VII, Section VII, Paragraph I of the Constitution and all other necessary and ancillary powers necessary to carry out the provisions of said paragraph as it pertains to the Downtown Marietta Development Authority;
(13)
to sue and to be sued;
(14)
to adopt and amend a corporate seal;
(15)
to make and execute contracts and other instruments necessary or convenient to exercise the powers of the authority, including but not limited to contracts for construction of projects, leases of projects, contracts for sale of projects and contracts with respect to the use of projects;
(16)
to finance (by loan, grant or lease), construct, erect, purchase, acquire, own, repair, remodel, renovate, rehabilitate, maintain, extend, improve, sell, equip, expand, add to, operate or manage projects and to pay the cost of any project from the proceeds of revenue bonds, notes or other obligations of the authority or any other funds of the authority, or from any contribution or loans by persons, corporations, partnerships (limited or general) or other entities, all of which the authority is hereby authorized to receive and accept and use;
(17)
to borrow money to further or carry out its public purpose and to execute revenue bonds, notes, other obligations, leases, trust indentures, trust agreements, agreements for the sale of its revenue bonds, notes or other obligations, loan agreements, mortgages, deeds to secure debt, trust deeds, security agreements, assignments and such other instruments as may be necessary or desirable, in the judgment of the authority, to evidence and secure such borrowing;
(18)
to issue revenue bonds, notes or other obligations of the authority and use the proceeds thereof for the purpose of paying, or loaning the proceeds thereof to pay, all or any part of the cost of any project and otherwise to further or carry out the public purpose of the authority and to pay all costs of the authority incident to, or necessary and appropriate to, furthering or carrying out such purposes;
(19)
to make application directly or indirectly to any federal, state, county or municipal government or agency or to any other source, public or private, for loans, grants, guarantees or other financial assistance in furtherance of the authority's public purpose and to accept and use same upon such terms and conditions as are prescribed by the federal, state, county or municipal government or agency or other source;
(20)
to enter into agreements with the federal government or any agency thereof to use in the performance of the authority's functions the facilities or the services of the federal government or any agency thereof in order to further or carry out the public purpose of the authority;
(21)
to contract for any period not exceeding 50 years with the State of Georgia, state institutions or any city, town, municipality or county of the state for the use by the authority of any facilities or services of the state or any such state institution, city, town, municipality or county, or for the use by any state institution or any city, town, municipality or county of any facilities or services of the authority, provided such contracts shall deal with such activities and transactions as the authority and any such subdivision with which the authority contracts are by law authorized to undertake;
(22)
to extend credit or make loans to any person, corporation, partnership (limited or general) or other entity for the costs of any project or any part of the costs of any project, which credit or loans shall be evidenced or secured by loan agreements, notes, mortgages, deeds to secure debt, trust deeds, security agreements, assignments and such other instruments, or by rentals, revenues, fees or charges, upon such terms and conditions as the authority shall determine to be reasonable in connection with such extension of credit or loans, including provision for the establishment and maintenance of reserves and insurance funds, and, in the exercise of powers granted by this paragraph in connection with any project, the authority shall have the right and power to require the inclusion in any such loan agreement, note, mortgage, deed to secure debt, trust deed, security agreement, assignment or other instrument of such provision for guaranty, insurance, construction, use, operation, maintenance and financing of a project, and such other terms and conditions, as the authority may deem necessary or desirable;
(23)
as security for repayment of any revenue bonds, notes or other obligations of the authority, to pledge, mortgage, convey, assign, hypothecate or otherwise encumber any property, real or personal, of the authority and to execute any lease, trust indenture, trust agreement, agreement for the sale of the authority's revenue bonds, notes or other obligations, loan agreement, mortgage, deed to secure debt, trust deed, security agreement, assignment or other instrument as may be necessary or desirable, in the judgment of the authority, to secure any such revenue bonds, notes or other obligations, which instrument may provide for foreclosure or forced sale of any property of the authority upon default in any obligation of the authority, either in payment of principal or interest or in the performance of any term or condition contained in any such instrument (the State of Georgia on behalf of itself and each county, municipal corporation, political subdivision or taxing district therein hereby waives any right it or such county, municipal corporation, political subdivision or taxing district may have to prevent the forced sale or foreclosure of any property of the authority upon such default and agrees that any instrument encumbering such property may be foreclosed in accordance with law and the terms thereof);
(24)
to exercise any power granted by the laws of the State of Georgia to public or private corporations which is not in conflict with the constitution and laws of the State of Georgia; and
(25)
to do all things necessary or convenient to carry out the powers expressly conferred by this act. The powers enumerated in each paragraph of this section are cumulative with and in addition to those enumerated in the other paragraphs of this section, and no such power limits or restricts any other such power.
(Ga. L. 1971, p. 3459, Sec. 5, as amended by Ga. L. 1980, p. 3866, Sec. D; Ga. L. 1988, p. 3647, Sec. 1)
Amendment note—Subsections (13) through (25) were added by the 1980 act. Subsection (5A) was added by the 1988 act.
Section 4.205A - Pigeon control program.
The authority shall have the duty to provide within the Downtown Marietta District a program of pigeon control. This program shall be designed and operated so as to prevent pigeons from perching, roosting, or nesting in certain overhead areas or positions within the Downtown Marietta District. The overhead areas and positions to be subject to such control program shall be those areas and positions wherein perching, roosting, or nesting pigeons will inconvenience pedestrian or vehicular traffic below or will otherwise impair the authority's purpose of redevelopment of the Downtown Marietta District. The authority may utilize any otherwise available funds for this pigeon control program and, if necessary, shall exercise its powers of taxation to raise sufficient revenues for such program.
(Ga. L. 1988, p. 3647, Sec. 1)
Section 4.206 - Revenue bonds authorized.
The authority is hereby authorized to issue bonds, revenue bonds, notes or other obligations from time to time, to carry out the purposes of this act. Revenue bonds, notes or other obligations so issued shall be paid solely from the revenues pledged to the payment thereof, which revenues may include any funds derived from the special tax levy provided hereunder. Such bonds, revenue bonds, notes or other obligations shall be authorized by resolution of the governing body of the authority, which may be adopted at a regular or special meeting by a majority vote of the members of said governing body. The governing body of said authority in determining the cost of any project for which bonds, revenue bonds, notes or other obligations are to be issued may include all costs relative to the issuance thereof, and without intending to limit such costs, may include, architectural, engineering, inspection, fiscal agents' and legal expenses estimated to accrue from the date of any bonds, revenue bonds, notes or other obligations through the period of construction and for six (6) months after such construction and such bonds, revenue bonds, notes or other obligations shall bear such date or dates, mature at such time or times, not exceeding 30 years from their respective dates, bear interest at such rate or rates and may be in such denominations and may carry such registration privileges and may be subject to redemption and may contain such terms, covenants, assignments and conditions as the resolution authorizing the issuance of such bonds, revenue bonds, notes or other obligations may provide. Bonds, revenue bonds, notes or other obligations and interest thereon so issued by said authority are hereby declared to be tax exempt for any and all purposes. The terms, conditions, covenants and provisions contained in any such resolution authorizing the issuance of such bonds, revenue bonds, notes or other obligations shall bind said governing body then in office and its successors thereof, including any covenant to levy taxes within the limits herein prescribed for the purpose of providing such funds as may be necessary to pay for the principal of and interest on any such issue or issues of bonds, revenue bonds, notes or other obligations and to create and maintain a reserve for that purpose. Revenue bonds, but not notes, or other obligations, issued by said authority shall be validated in the Superior Court of Cobb County in the same manner as revenue bonds of municipalities are validated as provided under the Revenue Bond Law (1937 Ga. Laws, p. 761), as amended. There shall be no limitation upon the amount of revenue bonds, notes or other obligations which the authority may issue. The interest rate or rates on or to be borne by any bonds, revenue bonds, notes or other obligations issued by the authority shall be determined by the members of the authority, and any limitations with respect to interest rates or any maximum interest rate or rates found in the Revenue Bond Law (1937 Ga. Laws, p. 761), as amended, the usury laws of the State of Georgia or any other laws of the State of Georgia shall not apply to bonds, revenue bonds, notes or other obligations of the authority issued pursuant to this act. The members of the authority shall constitute the `governing body' as that term is used herein.
(Ga. L. 1971, p. 3459, Sec. 7, as amended by Ga. L. 1980, p. 3866, Sec. F)
Amendment note—The above section was rewritten in its entirety by the 1980 act.
Section 4.207 - Revenue bonds not debt of city.
The revenue bonds or obligations herein authorized to be issued shall not be deemed to constitute a debt of the City of Marietta or the Downtown Marietta Development Authority within the meaning of Article VII, Paragraph I of the Constitution of the State of Georgia of 1945 (Article IX, Section VII, Paragraph I of the Constitution of the State of Georgia of 1976), nor a pledge of the faith and credit of said city or said authority nor shall the city be subject to any pecuniary liability thereon. The revenue bonds shall not be payable from, nor a charge upon, any funds of the city. Any bondholder shall have the right to compel the authority to levy the special tax herein provided for within the limit herein prescribed to pay the bonds and interest thereon; provided, however, that any resolution of the authority authorizing the issuance of revenue bonds or any trust agreement, trust indenture or similar agreement approved by the authority may provide that no bondholder shall have any such right to compel levy of a tax, and, in that event, the authority may not and shall not levy any tax to pay the bonds which are the subject of any such resolution, trust agreement, trust indenture or similar agreement or interest thereon.
(Ga. L. 1971, p. 3459, Sec. 6, as amended by Ga. L. 1980, p. 3866, Sec. E)
Amendment note—The above section was reworded in its entirety by the 1980 act.
Section 4.208 - Situs.
For purposes of validation of revenue bonds as provided under the Revenue Bond Law (1937 Ga. Laws, p. 761), as amended, the authority shall be considered to be located in the City of Marietta, Cobb County, Georgia.
(Ga. L. 1980, p. 3866, Sec. G(8))
Section 4.209 - Replacement of bonds.
The authority may provide for the replacement of any bonds issued by it which shall be lost, mutilated or destroyed.
(Ga. L. 1980, p. 3866, Sec. G(9))
Section 4.210 - Security for bonds; rights of bondholders.
In the discretion of the authority, any issue of bonds pursuant to this act may be secured by a trust indenture by and between the authority and a trustee, which may be any trust company, any bank having the powers of a trust company within or outside the state, any national banking association organized under the laws of the United States, or an individual. Such trust indenture may pledge or assign fees, tolls, revenues, rents, receipts, earnings or other funds to be received by the authority, including the proceeds derived from the sale from time to time of any surplus property of the authority, either real or personal. The resolution providing for the issuance of such bonds or the trust indenture may set forth the rights and remedies of the bondholders and of the trustee and may prescribe the procedure by which bondholders may enforce their rights. Such resolution or trust indenture may also provide that any project shall be constructed and paid for under the supervision and approval of consulting engineers or architects satisfactory to the trustee or to the bondholders, and may also require that the security given by any contractors and by any depository of the proceeds of the bonds or revenues or other monies be satisfactory to such trustee or bondholders, and may also contain provisions concerning the conditions, if any, upon which additional revenue bonds may be issued pari passu with the revenue bonds initially issued pursuant to such resolution or trust indenture. It shall be lawful for any bank or trust company incorporated under the laws of this state or any national banking association organized under the laws of the United States to act as such depository and to furnish such security as may be required by the authority. All expenses incurred in connection with any such resolution or trust indenture may be treated as operating expenses of the authority. This section is illustrative and does not limit the types of instruments which may secure or provide for any issue of bonds or the terms and provisions which any resolution adopted by the authority or any instrument executed by the authority may contain. Any resolution adopted by the authority or any indenture of trust, trust agreement, or other instrument executed by the authority may contain such terms and provisions as the authority shall approve. Such approval of the authority shall be conclusively established by the execution of any such resolution, indenture of trust, trust agreement or other instrument by the chairman or vice chairman of the authority and the attestation of such execution by the secretary or any assistant secretary of the authority. Nothing in this section or this act shall be construed to require, for any issue of revenue bonds, a trustee or a trust indenture, trust agreement or similar instrument.
(Ga. L. 1980, p. 3866, Sec. G(10))
Section 4.211 - Same; additional powers.
In addition to and not in limitation of other powers granted in this act as to the issuance of revenue bonds and security for such bonds, the authority shall have the power to enter into any financial and contractual arrangements which it deems appropriate with users or owners of projects in order to provide security to bondholders, and for such purposes it may also enter into joint agreements, arrangements or trust indentures with such users or owners and a trustee or trustees under any trust indenture in order that funds may be procured to accomplish the purposes of this act.
(Ga. L. 1980, p. 3866, Sec. G(11))
Section 4.212 - Protection of bondholders.
While any of the bonds issued by the authority remain outstanding, the powers, duties or existence of the authority or of its officers, employees or agents shall not be diminished or impaired in any manner that will adversely affect the interest and rights of the holders of such bonds.
(Ga. L. 1980, p. 3866, Sec. G(12))
Section 4.213 - Tax exempt status of bonds.
All bonds of the authority issued under the provisions of this act are declared to be issued for an essential public purpose and the said bonds and the income therefrom shall at all times be exempt from taxation within the state.
(Ga. L. 1980, p. 3866, Sec. G(13))
Section 4.214 - Bonds declared legal investments.
Any bonds or revenue bonds issued by the authority under the provisions of this act are hereby made securities in which all public officers and bodies of this state and all municipalities and all municipal subdivisions, all insurance companies and associations and other persons carrying on an insurance business, all banks, bankers, trust companies, savings banks and savings associations, including savings and loan associations, building and loan associations, investment companies and other persons carrying on a banking business, all administrators, guardians, executors, trustees and other fiduciaries and all other persons whomsoever who are now or may hereafter be authorized to invest in bonds or other obligations of the state may properly and legally invest funds including capital in their control or belonging to them. The bonds or revenue bonds of the authority are also hereby made securities which may be deposited with and shall be received by all public officers and bodies of this state and all municipalities and municipal subdivisions for any purpose for which the deposit of the bonds or other obligations of this state is now or may hereafter be authorized.
(Ga. L. 1980, p. 3866, Sec. G(14))
Section 4.215 - Purpose of authority.
The purpose of the authority is the redevelopment of the Downtown Marietta District, which includes but is not limited to renovation and rehabilitation of existing buildings, structures and improvements and acquisition and construction of new buildings, structures and improvements located in the Downtown Marietta District, all for any commercial, business, office, public or other use determined by a majority of the members of the authority to further the redevelopment of the Downtown Marietta District. The purpose of the authority is hereby declared to be an essential and public purpose, promoting the public good and welfare and benefitting the citizens of the Downtown Marietta District and the City of Marietta. This act shall be liberally construed to effect its purpose.
(Ga. L. 1980, p. 3866, Sec. G(15))
Section 4.216 - Application of bond provisions.
This act shall apply to all outstanding or authorized and unissued bonds, notes and other obligations, as well as all future bonds, notes and other obligations. Any and all bonds, notes or other obligations of the authority issued or validated prior to the effective date hereof are hereby ratified and approved.
(Ga. L. 1980, p. 3866, Sec. G(16))
Section 4.217 - Tax exempt status of property.
It is hereby declared that all property of the authority, held pursuant to the terms of this act, whether real or personal, tangible or intangible and of any kind or nature and any income or revenue therefrom, is held for an essential public purpose, and all such property is deemed to be public property and tax exempt.
(Ga. L. 1980, p. 3866, Sec. G(17))
