ARTICLE V - BOARD OF LIGHTS AND WATERWORKS
State Law reference— Constitutional amendments, Division I, Sec. 5-101

Section 5.1 - Created; membership; terms; etc.
(a)
(1)
The board of lights and waterworks, hereinafter referred to as "board," is declared and created a body corporate with all the powers incident to and necessary to its duties and which has the right to sue and be sued and power to make all contracts and obligations necessary to the duties that devolve upon it.
(2)
The board shall consist of:
(A)
The mayor of the city;
(B)
A member of the city council;
(C)
Three residents of the city;
(D)
One nonresident of the city who resides in Cobb County within the board's service district and who has received either electric, power, water, sewer, or telecommunications service from the board for at least one and one-half years; and
(E)
One member who resides in Cobb County who either:
(i)
Meets the qualifications set forth in subparagraph (D) of this paragraph; or
(ii)
Who is a business owner or employee of a business that has been, for at least one and one-half years, the recipient of electric, power, water, sewer, or telecommunications service from the board within the board's service district, but outside of the corporate limits of the city. If a business owner or employee, the business that said person owns or is employed by must continue to be a recipient of services from the board within the board's service district outside of the corporate limits of the city during the term served by such person, or such person shall immediately become ineligible to serve, and such person's seat on the board shall be deemed vacant.
(3)
The clerk of the city council shall be ex officio clerk of the board, but shall not be a member of the board and shall have such duties as the board may impose upon him or her, and he or she shall be allowed such compensation as the board may fix prior to entering upon his or her duties.
(4)
The members of the board, except for the mayor, shall be elected by a majority vote of the council and shall each serve for a term of four years, or a shorter term as may be specified by the council at the time of the appointment, and at the end of said time, or sooner if there should be a vacancy in any one of said places, their successors shall be elected by the council for the unexpired term. The members of the board shall be paid such compensation as is set by the council.
(b)
(1)
The councilmember that serves on the board of lights and waterworks shall be appointed and serve as provided in paragraph (2) of this subsection.
(2)
For the first year of the council term, the councilmember shall be appointed by the mayor, with the consent of a majority of council, each January at either a special called meeting or a regular meeting. If the mayor should not appoint, with the consent of the council, a councilmember by January 31 of any year, the councilmembers may select the council appointment from the council by majority vote at the subsequent February council meeting, regular or special called, or successive meetings until the appointment is made. Said appointment shall run through December 31 of that year. For the second, third, and fourth years of the council term, the councilmember shall be appointed by the mayor for a one-year term running January 1 through December 31, with the consent of a majority of the councilmembers, in the December regular meeting before the appointment is effective in January. If the mayor should not appoint, with the consent of council, a councilmember by December 31, the councilmembers may select the council appointment from the council by majority vote at the subsequent January council meeting, regular or special called, or successive meetings until the appointment is made.
(c)
The board of lights and waterworks shall have a chairperson, a vice chairperson, a general manager, and a clerk. The chairperson shall preside at all meetings of the board, shall set the agenda, and, together with the clerk, shall execute all documents in the name of such board. The chairperson shall have the right to participate in meetings and vote. The vice chairperson shall preside in the absence of the chairperson and otherwise perform the duties of the chairperson in the chairperson's absence or inability to perform such duties. The vice chairperson shall be elected annually by the board members from their number at the first meeting of the calendar year. The mayor of the City of Marietta shall serve ex officio as chairperson of the board with the right to participate in meetings and vote, and the clerk of the City of Marietta shall serve ex officio as clerk and secretary of the board without the right to participate in meetings and vote as determined by a majority of the board. The general manager shall be hired by the city manager of the City of Marietta and may be terminated by the city manager, either of which actions is subject to the approval of the board. The general manager shall report to and coordinate with the city manager concerning all shared departments and functions. The general manager may attend and participate in meetings of the board, but shall have no vote.
(Ga. L. 1977, p. 3541, Sec. 5.1, as amended by Ga. L. 1979, p. 4698; Ord. No. 3600, 6/13/79, Sec. 1; Ord. No. 3657, 2/13/80, Sec. 1; Ga. L. 1982, p. 4561, Sec. 4; Ga. L. 1989, p. 4583, Sec. 4; Ord. No. 4728, 9/13/89, Sec. 3; Ga. L. 1994, p. 4267, Sec. 3; Ord. No. 5265, 3/9/94, Sec. 1; Ord. No. 6239, 5/9/2001, Sec. 1; Ord. No. 6271, 8/8/2001, Sec. 1; Ord. No. 6887, 12/14/2005, Sec. 1; Act No. 147, HB 577, Sec. 1, 5/4/2017)
Editor's note— Ord. No. 3600, 6/13/79, Ord. No. 3657, 2/13/80, and Ord. No. 4728, 9/13/89, were enacted under the city's home rule powers; each ordinance struck the former wording of the section in its entirety. Ga. L. 1982, p. 4561 also struck the wording of the existing section in its entirety and reconstructed the board as set out above. The 1989 act reestablished nonresident membership on the board. Ord. No. 4728 9/13/89, is recorded at Ga. L. 1990, p. 5492.
Section 5.2 - Powers and duties generally; contracts.
Said Board shall have the power to create, build, operate, and supply water systems, electrical systems, cable television systems, sewer systems, telecommunications systems, be a Georgia regulated Gas Marketer through a Section 5.14 Operating Company, and all other utilities. It shall make all contracts therefor for the city, shall have power to regulate the rates in the city, and shall supply the people of the city with such services at a fair and equitable rate. It shall have the power to make any contracts with any other company supplying such services to the city, and to do any and all things necessary to the carrying out of the objects of this article. Said board shall take the proceeds of any bonds sold for the purpose of erecting systems and build and erect such systems to the best advantage of the city, and to this end, if it things best and property, can purchase and acquire any property now owned and operated by any other company.
(Ga. L. 1977, p. 3541, Sec. 5.2; Ga. L. 1994, p. 4267, Sec. 4; Ord. No. 5265, 3/9/94, Sec. 2; Ord. No. 8299 , 9/14/22, Sec. 2)
Section 5.3 - Extension of mains and lines beyond city limits.
The board shall have the power and authority to extend its mains and lines beyond the limits of the city into the county at such places and to such distances as said board may determine by proper resolution, and to serve customers on said mains and lines so extended by such rates as may be fixed by the board.
(Ga. L. 1977, p. 3541, Sec. 5.3)
Section 5.4 - Erection of facilities outside city.
The board shall have the right, power, and authority to build and erect plants and other facilities beyond the corporate limits of the city for the operation of its systems.
(Ga. L. 1977, p. 3541, Sec. 5.4)
Section 5.5 - Disposal of property generally.
The board is hereby expressly authorized to sell real or personal property at public or private sale under such terms and conditions and for whatever consideration the board deems necessary. The board of lights and waterworks is further authorized to trade, exchange, lease, rent and otherwise contract concerning any real or personal property that it may now or hereafter own or have an interest in, and the board is expressly authorized to purchase real or personal property at public or private sale.
(Ga. L. 1977, p. 3541, Sec. 5.4)
Section 5.6 - Acquiring property outside city.
Said board shall have the right, power and authority to acquire by purchase, gift, or contract, suitable and sufficient lands and properties outside of the city for the purpose of extending the systems beyond the corporate limits of the city and for the erection and building of plants and facilities.
(Ga. L. 1977, p. 3541, Sec. 5.6)
Section 5.7 - Cable television service.
The board is hereby authorized to create, build, operate and maintain or lease cable television towers, equipment and stations for the purpose of receiving and transmitting television signals. The board is hereby authorized to make all contracts necessary and incidental to the operation of the above services, including the right to buy and sell or lease all equipment necessary and incidental to the operation of the above services, including cables, wire and any other technical and electronic devices necessary to maintain said service. The board is hereby authorized to use any of the poles, lines, equipment and personnel of the board necessary to the creation and maintenance of said service, and to contract with any persons, concerns, companies and utilities with reference to any matters necessary and incidental to the creation and operation and maintenance of such service.
The board is hereby authorized to receive and transmit television signals, and to furnish such service to any of its customers, provided, however, the same shall be on voluntary basis and no one shall be required to subscribe to the cable television service. The board shall determine the fees to be paid by those electing to subscribe to such service.
(Ga. L. 1977, p. 3541, Sec. 5.7)
Section 5.8 - Equipment.
Said board shall have the right, power, and authority to purchase all equipment and machinery necessary to carry out the provisions of this article.
(Ga. L. 1977, p. 3541, Sec. 5.8)
Section 5.9 - Purchase of water and current.
Said board shall have the right, power, and authority to contract for and purchase water and electric current for the purpose of resale to and supplying its customers.
(Ga. L. 1977, p. 3541, Sec. 5.9)
Section 5.10 - Power to borrow.
Said board in exercising the right, power, and authority delegated to it under the provisions of this article relative to extending its lines, etc., the erection and building of plants and facilities, the acquiring of lands and properties therefor, and the purchase of such machinery and equipment incident to and necessary, shall have the right, power, and authority, if it should be necessary to carry out the powers delegated to said board, to borrow temporarily (and as a temporary loan) such sums of money and execute notes therefor as may be necessary to carry out the rights and powers delegated to it, provided such sums so borrowed shall not exceed the limit fixed by the constitution and laws of this state.
(Ga. L. 1977, p. 3541, Sec. 5.10)
Section 5.11 - Combination of water, sewer and electric systems; revenue bonds.
As authorized by constitutional amendment, the city and the board are authorized and empowered and granted the right, power and authority to combine the water and sewerage system and electric system now being maintained and operated by said board for the benefit of said city and to maintain, repair, and operate such combined public utility as one revenue producing undertaking and to issue from time to time interest bearing revenue anticipation obligations to be known and designated Public Utilities Revenue Bonds for the purpose of acquiring, constructing, adding to, extending, improving and equipping any facility of such combined public utility and to pledge for the payment of the principal of and interest on such public utilities revenue bonds all or any part of the revenues of such combined public utility and to create a lien thereon for that purpose, subject to any liens heretofore created thereon by law or contract. No election to authorize the issuance of said bonds shall be required and the pledge of revenues from the combined public utility shall not be a debt of the city within the meaning of article IX, section VII, paragraph I of the constitution. Such bonds may be issued from time to time bearing such rate or rates of interests as authorized by law and maturing within 30 years from their date in the years and amounts as determined by a majority vote of the governing body of the city and by a majority vote of the members of the board, and when so authorized the procedure of the issuance and delivery including validation shall be in all respects in accordance with the Revenue Bond Law as now enacted and any amendments thereto which law was originally known as the Revenue Certificate Law of 1937. The rights, powers and authority herein conferred upon the city and board are self-executing and no enabling act of the general assembly shall be necessary and are hereby made cumulative of and in addition to such other rights, powers and authority as they may have under the constitution and laws of this state.
(Ga. L. 1977, p. 3541, Sec. 5.11)
State Law reference— Revenue Certificate Law, Ga. Code Ann., Ch. 87-8.
Annotation—The constitution grants joint authority for the city and the board to operate the combined systems. Board of Lights and Waterworks v. Craddock, 228 Ga. 697, 187 S.E. 2d 852 (1972).
Cross reference— Constitutional amendment, Division I, Sec. 5-101.
Section 5.12 - Eminent domain.
The board shall have the right of eminent domain, with the power to condemn private property by paying just compensation therefor, and for other purposes, both within and without the city.
(Ga. L. 1977, p. 3541, Sec. 5.12)
Section 5.13 - Service rates; pledging proceeds.
Said board shall have the right, power and authority to fix such rates and charges for water, electricity and other service to its customers as it may deem proper and just.
The board is hereby given the right, power and authority to pledge the proceeds thereof in accordance with the Revenue Certificate Law of 1937, approved March 31, 1937 (Ga. Laws 1937, p. 761), as amended.
(Ga. L. 1977, p. 3541, Sec. 5.13)
Section 5.14 - Operating companies.
The board of lights and waterworks, with the concurrence of the Marietta City Council, may establish from time to time, a single member Georgia Limited Liability Corporation (O.C.G.A. § 14-11) with the Board of Lights and Water being the single member of same, and further enter into Intergovernmental Agreements (Georgia Constitution Article 9 Section 3 Paragraph 9) as it may deem necessary or desirable for the contractual operation of such utility function or functions or marketing of such as the board may see fit, provided that the member of such entity shall be appointed by the Marietta City Council, for such terms as the City Council may deem desirable. Said Georgia Business Entities shall state in their Governing Documents that the Entity is subject to the Georgia Opens Records Act (O.C.G.A. § 50-18-70, et seq.) and the Georgia Open Meetings Law (O.C.G.A. § 50-14-1, et seq.).
(Ga. L. 1994, p. 4267, Sec. 5; Ord. No. 5265, 3/9/94, Sec. 3; Ord. No. 8125 , 12/11/2019, Sec. 2)
Section 5.15 - Surplus funds, use authorized.
The board is authorized to make appropriations from any surplus funds to the city.
(Ga. L. 1977, p. 3541, Sec. 5.15)
