PART 5 - MISCELLANEOUS SPECIAL LAWS
ARTICLE I - BOARD OF LIGHTS AND WATER WORKS

Section 5.101 - Water, sewer and electric systems (constitutional amendment).
Article VII, Section VII, Paragraph V of the Constitution incorporated in the Code of Georgia of 1933 as section 2-6005, shall be amended by adding at the end thereof a new paragraph to be numbered 3 and which shall read as follows:
"3. Notwithstanding any provisions of this constitution to the contrary the City of Marietta and its board of lights and water works are authorized and hereby empowered and granted the right, power and authority to combine the water and sewerage system and electric system now being maintained and operated by said board for the benefit of said city and to maintain, repair and operate such combined public utility as one revenue producing undertaking and to issue from time to time interest bearing revenue anticipation obligations to be known and designated `Public Utilities Revenue Bonds' for the purpose of acquiring, constructing, adding to, extending, improving and equipping any facility of such combined public utility and to pledge for the payment of the principal of and interest on such public utilities revenue bonds all or any part of the revenues of such combined public utility and to create a lien thereon for that purpose, subject to any liens heretofore created thereon by law or contract. No election to authorize the issuance of said bonds shall be required and the pledge of revenues from the combines [combined] public utility shall not be a debt of the City of Marietta within the meaning of Article VII, Section VII, Paragraph I of this Constitution. Such bonds may be issued from time to time bearing such rate or rates of interest as authorized by law and maturing within 30 years from their date in the years and amounts as detremined [determined] by a majority vote of the governing body of the City of Marietta and by a majority vote of the members of the board and [of] lights and water works and when so authorized the procedure of the issuance and delivery including validation shall be in all respects in accordance with the Revenue Bond Law as now enacted and any amendments thereto which law was originally known as the `Revenue Certificate Law of 1937.'
The rights, powers and authority herein conferred upon the City of Marietta and its board of lights and water works are self-executing and no enabling act of the General Assembly shall be necessary and are hereby made cumulative of and in addition to such other rights, powers and authority as they may have under the constitution and laws of this state."
(Ga. L. 1958, p. 425)
Annotation—This constitutional amendment grants joint authority for the city, in combination with the board, to operate the combined systems and not just for the board itself to operate the systems. Board of Lights and Water Works v. Craddock, 228 Ga. 697, 187 S.E. 2d 852 (1972).
Cross reference— Board provisions in city charter, Division I, Sec. 5.1 et seq.
Editor's note— The above provision was continued as a local amendment to the constitution by Ga. L. 1986, p. 4059 and Ga. L. 1986, p. 5509.
ARTICLE II - SPECIAL TAX EXEMPTIONS

Section 5.201 - Homestead exemption of elderly and disabled.
Act [Article] VII, Section I, Paragraph IV of the Constitution is hereby amended by striking from said paragraph the following:
"[amendment authorized by Ga. L. 1968, p. 1678]"
and inserting in lieu thereof the following:
"Any other provisions of this constitution to the contrary notwithstanding, each resident of the City of Marietta who is 62 years of age or over and who does not have an income from all sources, including the income of all members of the family living in the home of said residents, exceeding $5,000 per annum, and each resident of the City of Marietta who is totally disabled and who does not have an income from all sources, including the income of all members of the family living in the home of said resident, exceeding $5,000 per annum, is hereby granted an exemption of $2,000 on his homestead from all ad valorem taxation by the City of Marietta as long as any such resident of the City of Marietta actually occupies said homestead as his residence. For the purposes of this paragraph, income shall not include income received as retirement, survivor or disability benefits under the Federal Social Security Act or under any other public or private retirement, disability or pension system, except such income which is in excess of the maximum amount authorized to be paid to an individual and his spouse under the Federal Social Security Act, and income from such sources in excess of such maximum amount shall be included as income for the purposes of this paragraph. Provided, however, under this provision, there shall be no more than one (1) $2,000 exemption per homestead. The value of the homestead in excess of the above exempted amount shall remain subject to ad valorem taxation by the City of Marietta. Any such resident shall not receive the benefits of such homestead exemption unless he files an affidavit with the governing authority of the City of Marietta, or with a person designated by the governing authority of the City of Marietta, giving his age and the amount of income which he receives and the income which members of his family living in his home receive and such additional information relative to receive the benefits of such exemption as will enable the governing authority of the City of Marietta, or the person designated by the governing authority of the City of Marietta, to make a determination as to whether such owner is entitled to such exemption. The governing authority of the City of Marietta, or the person designated by the said governing authority, shall provide affidavit forms for this purpose. The exemption provided for herein shall apply to all taxable years beginning after December 31, 1976."
(Ga. L. 1968, p. 1678, as amended by Ga. L. 1976, p. 1789)
Section 5.202 - Homestead exemption for elderly from ad valorem taxation for educational purposes.
Article VII, Section 1, Paragraph IV of the Constitution is hereby amended by adding a new paragraph to read as follows:
"The homestead of each resident of the Independent School District of the City of Marietta who is 62 years of age or over is exempted from all taxes levied by the City of Marietta for educational purposes, other than taxes levied to retire bonded indebtedness incurred prior to January 1, 1981. As used in this paragraph, the term `homestead' shall have the meaning specified by law for purposes of the statewide exemption from ad valorem taxation for state, county, and school purposes, except that the term shall not include more than one (1) acre of land immediately surrounding the residence of the applicant. The exemption granted to the homestead within this paragraph shall extend to and shall apply to those properties, the legal title to which is vested in one (1) or more titleholders, if actually occupied by one (1) or more such owners as a residence, and one (1) or more such title-holders possess the qualifications provided for in this paragraph. In such instances, such exemptions shall be granted to such properties, if claimed in the manner authorized in this paragraph by one (1) or more of the owners actually residing on such property. Such exemptions shall also extend to those homesteads, the title to which is vested in an administrator, executor or trustee, if one (1) or more of the heirs or cestui que uses residing on such property shall possess the qualifications provided for herein and shall claim the exemptions granted by this paragraph in the manner authorized in this paragraph. The governing authority of the City of Marietta may provide procedures for application for, proof of eligibility for, and approval of the grant of the exemption granted in this paragraph. Such procedures may provide that, once an exemption is granted to an applicant, the applicant need not reapply for the exemption thereafter. The exemption provided for herein shall apply to all taxable years beginning after December 31, 1980."
(Ga. L. 1980, p. 2123)
Editor's note— The above section is amendatory to Art. VII, Sec. 1, Para. IV of the Constitution of 1976 (Ga. Code Ann., Sec. 2-4604) and was ratified by voters November 4, 1980.
Prior to the adoption by the legislature and subsequent ratification of the constitutional amendment set out above, the text of Ga. L. 1973, p. 2287 was included in this code. The 1973 act provided for a homestead exemption for elderly persons whose income did not exceed $6,000 per annum.
Section 5.203 - Additional homestead exemption.
(a)
For purposes of this act, the term "homestead" means such term as defined and qualified in code section 48-5-40 of the O.C.G.A.
(b)
Each resident of the City of Marietta, Georgia, is granted an exemption on that person's homestead from all City of Marietta ad valorem taxes, including, but not limited to, ad valorem taxes of the independent school system of the City of Marietta, in the amount of $4,000. The value of the homestead in excess of the exempted amount shall remain subject to taxation.
(c)
The governing authority of the City of Marietta or its designee shall provide application forms for the exemption granted by this act and shall require such information as may be necessary to determine eligibility of the owner for the exemption.
(d)
The exemption shall be claimed and returned as provided in code section 48-5-50.1 of the O.C.G.A. The exemption shall be renewed from year to year as long as the owner occupies the residence as a homestead. It shall be the duty of any person granted the homestead exemption under this act to notify the governing authority of the City of Marietta or its designee in the event that person for any reason becomes ineligible for that exemption.
(e)
The exemption granted by this act shall not apply to or affect any county school taxes, state taxes, or county taxes for county purposes.
(f)
The exemption granted by this act shall be in addition to any other homestead exemption from City of Marietta ad valorem taxes.
(g)
The exemption granted by this act shall apply to all taxable years beginning after December 31, 1986.
(h)
The exemption granted by this act shall be administered and granted by the governing authority of the City of Marietta or its designee in the same manner as provided by general law; and, unless otherwise expressly provided in this act, all provisions of general law shall apply to the exemption granted by this act.
(Ga. L. 1986, p. 5043)
ARTICLE III - CITY-COUNTY ANTI-DRUG COMMISSION

Section 5.301 - Short title.
This act may be cited as the "Marietta-Cobb County Anti-Drug Commission Act."
(Ga. L. 1989, p. 4233, Sec. 1)
Section 5.302 - Created.
There is created a body corporate and politic, to be known as the "Marietta-Cobb County Anti-Drug Commission," which shall be deemed to be a public corporation and by such name, style, and title, may contract and be contracted with, sue and be sued, implead and be impleaded, and complain and defend in all courts of law and equity; provided, however, that the commission shall have and enjoy any and all immunities as are now or hereafter granted to it or authorized by the Constitution and laws of this state.
(Ga. L. 1989, p. 4233, Sec. 2)
Section 5.303 - Term of existence or duration.
The commission shall have existence for and during a term of five years, beginning on July 1, 1989, and terminating on June 30, 1994, at which time such commission shall be dissolved and shall thereafter be nonexistent.
(Ga. L. 1989, p. 4233, Sec. 3)
Section 5.304 - Composition.
(a)
The commission shall be composed of 30 members, to fill the 30 respective posts, as follows:
Post      Members
1.
The mayor of the City of Marietta;
2.
The chairman of the board of commissioners of Cobb County;
3.
The mayor of the City of Austell;
4.
The mayor of the City of Smyrna;
5.
The mayor of the City of Acworth;
6.
The mayor of the City of Kennesaw;
7.
The mayor of the City of Powder Springs;
8.
The chairman of the South Cobb Development Authority;
9.
The sheriff of Cobb County;
10.
The chief of police of the City of Marietta;
11.
The public safety director of Cobb County;
12.
The superintendent of the Cobb County School System;
13.
The superintendent of the Marietta City School System;
14.
The chairman of the Board of Health of Cobb County;
15.
The district attorney of the Cobb Judicial Circuit or any successor judicial circuit that embraces or includes the Superior Court of Cobb County;
16.
The president of the Cobb County Medical Association;
17.
The president of the Cobb County Pharmacy Association;
18.
The president of the Cobb County Chamber of Commerce;
19, 20.
One (1) member shall be appointed to each of these two (2) posts by the governing authority of the City of Marietta for such term of office as such commission may desire during the five-year period of existence of such commission;
Post      Members
21, 22.
One (1) member shall be appointed to each of these two (2) posts by the governing authority of the County of Cobb for such term of office as such commission may desire during the five-year period of such commission;
23—26.
Two (2) members who shall represent the western portion of Cobb County shall be appointed to two (2) of these four (4) posts and two (2) members who shall represent the eastern portion of Cobb County shall be appointed to two (2) of these four (4) posts by a majority vote of the members of the house of representatives whose districts lie wholly or partially within Cobb County;
27.
One (1) member who shall be appointed by the senator representing state Senate District 32;
28.
One (1) member who shall be appointed by the senator representing state Senate District 33;
29.
One (1) member who shall be appointed by the senator representing state Senate District 37; and
30.
One (1) member who shall be appointed by the senator representing state Senate District 56.
(b)
Each of the officers in Posts 1 through 18 shall serve as a member of such commission only during his or her respective term of office and each shall be succeeded as a member of such commission by his or her respective successor in office during the five-year term of existence of said commission, with the right and privilege of any such officer, should he or she deem it inappropriate for any reason or cause to serve on such commission, to designate a member to serve in his or her place on said commission.
(Ga. L. 1989, p. 4233, Sec. 4)
Section 5.305 - Vacancies.
(a)
Any vacancy in the above-designated Post 19 or 20 occurring by the death, resignation, or otherwise of such member shall be filled for the unexpired term of the member whose seat has been vacated by a person appointed by the governing authority of the City of Marietta.
(b)
Any vacancy in the above-designated Post 21 or 22 occurring by the death, resignation, or otherwise of such member shall be filled for the unexpired term of the member whose seat has been vacated by a person appointed by the governing authority of the County of Cobb.
(c)
Any vacancy in the above-designated Post 23, 24, 25, or 26 occurring by the death, resignation, or otherwise of such member shall be filled for the unexpired term of the member whose seat has been vacated by a person appointed by a majority vote of the members of the house of representatives whose districts lie wholly or partially within Cobb County.
(d)
Any vacancy in the above-designated Post 27, 28, 29, or 30 occurring by the death, resignation, or otherwise of such member shall be filled for the unexpired term of office by a person appointed by the state senator who appointed the member whose seat has been vacated.
(e)
If any of the above-designated offices of members of Posts 1 through 18 should become vacant or be discontinued or become nonexistent for any cause or reason whatever, the grand jury of the Superior Court of Cobb County shall appoint a person to fill such vacancy.
(Ga. L. 1989, p. 4233, Sec. 5)
Section 5.306 - Officers.
Annually, the commission shall elect one of its members to serve as chairman of the commission and another of its members to serve as vice chairman of the commission. The board may also elect a clerk or secretary of such commission, who need not be a member of the commission and who shall serve at the will of the commission. The commission may designate, appoint, or employ such other officers, agents, and employees as the commission may deem proper. The chairman shall preside at all meetings of the commission and shall serve as its chief executive officer. For and during the absence, disqualification, or disability of the chairman, the vice chairman shall serve as chairman. If the chairman's seat is vacated, the vice chairman shall assume the duties of the chairman until such time as the chairman's vacancy is filled by the election of another by the commission. If the vice chairman's seat is vacated, the commission shall elect another of its members to fill such vacancy for the unexpired term of office.
(Ga. L. 1989, p. 4233, Sec. 6)
Section 5.307 - Meetings.
The commission shall hold at least one (1) regular meeting quarter-annually at such time and place as the commission may from time to time designate. The time, date, and place of any such regular meeting may be changed as the members of the commission may deem meet and proper. The commission may hold such other regular, special, or additional meetings as it may deem necessary or proper. No notice shall be required to be given for any regular meeting, being any meeting designated to be held regularly by resolution of the members of the commission, such as quarterannual, bimonthly, monthly, semimonthly, or weekly meetings or other such meetings held at regular periodic intervals. The commission is authorized to provide for the holding of special meetings, to provide for the time, place, and manner of holding and calling special meetings, and to provide for giving notice and waiver of notice of the time, place, and purpose of such meetings, all as the members of said commission, in their sole discretion, shall deem proper. A majority of the members then serving on the commission shall constitute a quorum for the transaction of business. In the absence of a quorum, a majority of the members of the commission present at any meeting may adjourn the meeting from time to time until a quorum can be obtained. Notice of any adjourned meeting need only be given by announcement at the meeting at which the adjournment is taken. All resolutions adopted and all business transacted by the commission shall require the affirmative vote of a majority of the members present at the meeting. From time to time, the members of the commission may fix an agenda for any meeting or meetings and may adopt such rules of order which they shall deem appropriate which shall govern the conduct and procedure of their meetings.
(Ga. L. 1989, p. 4233, Sec. 7)
Section 5.308 - Operating budgets.
It is anticipated that the primary source of capital to defray the costs and expenses of the commission will be borne jointly by the City of Marietta and the County of Cobb with each such entity contributing an equal amount to the commission for such purpose on or before the first day of July of each of the five (5) years of the existence of the commission and beginning on July 1, 1989. The commission shall make a written request to the City of Marietta and the County of Cobb for operating funds pursuant to an operating budget made by the commission. The first such request for funds shall be submitted to the respective governing authorities of the City of Marietta and the County of Cobb on or before April 15, 1989, and each of the four (4) succeeding annual requests shall be submitted on or before April 1 of each of the next four (4) years. The amount of each such contribution shall be entirely discretionary with the City of Marietta and the County of Cobb. In addition to any such annual contribution, both the City of Marietta and the County of Cobb are authorized to make such additional contributions to the commission as each such entity may deem appropriate, solely within the sound discretion of such entity making the contribution.
(Ga. L. 1989, p. 4233, Sec. 8)
Section 5.309 - Compensation.
From funds granted to or acquired by the commission, the members of the commission shall fix and determine the amount of, and the time and manner of paying, compensation to its members, officers, agents, and employees, all within their sound discretion.
(Ga. L. 1989, p. 4233, Sec. 9)
Section 5.310 - Purpose and authorization.
Said commission is created for the purpose of taking all such actions and doing all such things, as it shall deem meet and proper, to deter and control, with the intent to ultimately eliminate, the unlawful use, consumption, possession, sale, transfer, delivery, dispensing, handling, trafficking, manufacturing, and growing of dangerous drugs or controlled substances, as defined by the laws of Georgia and said commission is authorized:
(1)
To work and cooperate with, and to seek the cooperation of, the City of Marietta and all other municipalities of the State of Georgia; the County of Cobb and all other counties or political subdivisions of the State of Georgia; the State of Georgia, including each of its departments, agencies, entities, or instrumentalities; and the United States of America, including each of its departments, agencies, entities, or instrumentalities, in the furtherance of the purpose of the commission;
(2)
To prepare, publish, and disseminate information in support of its purpose;
(3)
To serve as the community clearinghouse for information and research relative to dangerous drugs and controlled substances;
(4)
To expend, use, and disburse its funds and properties, pursuant to its powers and authorizations provided in this act, to accomplish the above-stated purpose of the existence of such commission;
(5)
To provide programs such as drug prevention programs, drug treatment programs, and such other programs that it may deem meet and proper in the fulfillment of its purpose and objectives; and
(6)
To do any and all other things necessary and proper to enable it to perform wholly and adequately its duties and to exercise the authorizations granted to it.
(Ga. L. 1989, p. 4233, Sec. 10)
Section 5.311 - Additional powers.
The commission shall have the power:
(1)
To have a seal and alter the same at its pleasure;
(2)
To acquire by purchase, lease, gift, or otherwise and to hold, lease, and dispose of real and personal property of every kind and character for its corporate purposes;
(3)
To enter into agreements with the City of Marietta, with the County of Cobb, or with any other political subdivision or municipal corporation of the state in the exercise of its charge;
(4)
To receive and accept gifts and grants of money and property from the private or public sectors of our society and to expend, use, or disburse all such money and property granted only in the course of business of the commission or for other public purposes;
(5)
To make contracts, leases, and conveyances and to execute all instruments necessary or convenient for the purpose of exercising its powers and performing its duties and functions as provided for in this act;
(6)
To make loans with, and accept grants of loans of money or property of any kind from, the United States of America, or any agency or instrumentality thereof; the State of Georgia, or any agency or instrumentality thereof; the City of Marietta, the County of Cobb, or any other municipality or political subdivision of the State of Georgia; upon such terms and conditions as such governmental entity, agency, municipality, county, or political subdivision may require or impose;
(7)
To borrow money for any of its corporate purposes and to provide for the payment of the same and for the rights of the holders of such promissory notes evidencing such indebtedness;
(8)
To exercise any power granted by the laws of the State of Georgia to private corporations which is not in conflict with the purposes of the commission; and
(9)
To do all things necessary or convenient to execute and carry out the powers expressly given and provided in this act.
(Ga. L. 1989, p. 4233, Sec. 11)
Section 5.312 - Tax-exempt status.
The properties of the commission, both real and personal, are declared to be public properties used for the benefit and welfare of the people of the State of Georgia, and not for purposes of private benefit and income, and all such properties of the commission shall be exempt from all taxes and special assessments of any city, county, or the state, or any political subdivision thereof.
(Ga. L. 1989, p. 4233, Sec. 12)
Section 5.313 - Rules and regulations.
It shall be the duty of the commission to prescribe rules and regulations for the operation of the commission and the conduct of its business and for the operation of any project sponsored by the commission.
(Ga. L. 1989, p. 4233, Sec. 13)
Section 5.314 - Obligations of the commission.
No debt or obligation whatsoever incurred by the commission shall be construed to be a debt or obligation of either the City of Marietta or the County of Cobb.
(Ga. L. 1989, p. 4233, Sec. 14)
Section 5.315 - Venue and jurisdiction.
Any action to protect or enforce any rights under the provisions of this act or any suit or action against the commission may be brought in the State Court of Cobb County or the Superior Court of Cobb County, and such courts shall have the exclusive, original jurisdiction of any such actions.
(Ga. L. 1989, p. 4233, Sec. 15)
Section 5.316 - Powers supplemental and additional.
The foregoing provisions of this act shall be deemed to provide an additional and alternative method for the doing of the things authorized and shall be regarded as supplemental and additional to the powers conferred by other laws and shall not be regarded as in derogation of any powers now existing.
(Ga. L. 1989, p. 4233, Sec. 16)
Section 5.317 - Liberal construction.
This act, being for the welfare of various municipal corporations or a political subdivision of the state and its inhabitants, shall be liberally construed to effect the purposes stated by this act.
(Ga. L. 1989, p. 4233, Sec. 17)
Section 5.318 - Effect of partial invalidity.
The provisions of this act are severable, and if any of its provisions shall be held unconstitutional by any court of competent jurisdiction, the decision of such court shall not affect or impair any of the remaining provisions.
(Ga. L. 1989, p. 4233, Sec. 18)
Section 5.319 - Specific repealer.
This act does not in any way take from the State of Georgia, or any department, agency, or instrumentality thereof, the City of Marietta or Cobb County, or any other municipal corporation or political subdivision of this state, any right, authority, or power held by any such public entity or body politic.
(Ga. L. 1989, p. 4233, Sec. 19)
ARTICLES IV—VII - RESERVED
Editor's note— Arts. IV through VII have been reserved for future use.
ARTICLE VIII - MISCELLANEOUS
Editor's note— Ga. L. 1973, p. 1412 and 1976, p. 340 authorized city leasing of state property and are not codified here. A 1983 resolution of the General Assembly (Ga. L. 1983, p. 4382) provided for limitations on the power of the City of Marietta to annex certain territory into the city.

Section 5.801 - Increase in retirement benefits (constitutional amendment).
Article VII, Section I, Paragraph II of the Constitution is hereby amended by adding at the end thereof the following:
"Any other provisions of this constitution to the contrary notwithstanding, the governing authority of the City of Marietta is hereby authorized to provide from time to time for the increase of retirement benefits of those persons who have retired under the provisions of any retirement system covering any employees of said city, as well as those employees who retire in the future. Any funds available to the governing authority of the City of Marietta may be utilized for the purpose provided herein."
(Ga. L. 1989, p. 1872)
