DIVISION 702 - ESTABLISHMENT OF DISTRICTS[1]

Footnotes:
--- (1) ---
Cross reference— Application of district regulations, div. 704; district standards and permitted uses, div. 708; supplemental district regulations, div. 710.

702.01 - Official Zoning Map.
A.
The City is hereby divided into zones, or districts, as shown on the Official Zoning Map which, together with all explanatory matter thereon, is hereby adopted by reference and incorporated herein as though fully set forth herein. The map is prepared by the Geographic Information Services Division of the Management Information Services Department, and is compiled from aerial photography, recorded deeds, plats, and other imagery, data and public records. The primary public information sources should be consulted for verification of the information contained on the map. A copy of the Official Zoning Map shall be maintained on file with the City Clerk for inspection and review by the public.
B.
The copy of the Official Zoning Map shall be identified by the signature of the Mayor, attested by the City Clerk, and bearing the seal of the city under the following words: "This is to certify that this is a copy of the Official Zoning Map of the City of Marietta, Georgia" together with the date of the adoption of this article.
C.
If, in accordance with the provisions of this article and state law, changes are made in district boundaries or other matter portrayed on the Official Zoning Map, a new copy of the map shall be made indicating such changes promptly after the amendment has been approved by the City Council.
D.
No changes of any nature shall be made in the Official Zoning Map or matter shown thereon except in conformity with the procedures set forth in this article. Any unauthorized change of whatever kind by any person or persons shall be considered a violation of this article and punishable as provided under this article.
(Code 1996, § 7-8-2-4-010; Ord. No. 6099, 3/8/2000, § 1)
702.02 - Replacement of Official Zoning Map.
In the event that the Official Zoning Map becomes damaged, destroyed, lost or difficult to interpret because of the nature or number of changes and additions, the City Council may by resolution adopt a new Official Zoning Map which shall supersede all previous such maps. The new Official Zoning Map may correct drafting or other errors of omissions in the prior Official Zoning Map, but no such correction shall have the effect of amending the original Official Zoning Map or any subsequent amendment thereof. Unless the prior Official Zoning Map has been lost, or has been totally destroyed, the prior map or any significant parts thereof remaining, shall be preserved, together with all available records pertaining to its adoption or amendment.
(Code 1996, § 7-8-2-4-020)
702.03 - District designations.
For the purpose of this ordinance, City of Marietta is hereby divided into 28 zoning districts designated as shown in Table A.
TABLE A. CITY OF MARIETTA
ZONING DISTRICTS
EXPAND
SINGLE-FAMILY RESIDENTIAL
R-1 Detached single-family residential, maximum 1 dwelling unit/acre
R-2 Detached single-family residential, maximum 2 dwelling units/acre
R-3 Detached single-family residential, maximum 3 dwelling units/acre
R-4 Detached single-family residential, maximum 4 dwelling units/acre
RA-4 Attached single-family residential, maximum 4 dwelling units/acre
RA-6 Attached single-family residential, maximum 6 dwelling units/acre
RA-8 Attached single-family residential, maximum 8 dwelling units/acre
PRD(SF) Planned residential development (single-family)
MHP Manufactured housing park
MULTIFAMILY RESIDENTIAL
RM-8 Multifamily residential, maximum 8 dwelling units/acre
RM-10 Multifamily residential, maximum 10 dwelling units/acre
RM-12 Multifamily residential, maximum 12 dwelling units/acre
RHR Residential high-rise
PRD(MF) Planned residential development (multifamily)
COMMERCIAL
NRC Neighborhood retail commercial
CRC Community retail commercial
RRC Regional retail commercial
CBD Central business district
PCD Planned commercial development
MXD Mixed-use development
OIT Office institutional transitional
LRO Low-rise office
OI Office institutional
OS Office services
OHR Office high-rise
INDUSTRIAL
LI Light industrial
HI Heavy industrial
PID Planned industrial development
