CHAPTER 8 - Well Head Protection

Sec. 8-8-1 - Short title and purpose.
(a)
This chapter shall be known as the "Wellhead Protection Ordinance".
(b)
The purpose of this chapter is to insure the provisions of a safe and sanitary drinking water supply for the City by establishment of wellhead protection zones surrounding the wellheads for all wells or springs which are the supply sources for the City water system and by the designation and regulation of property uses and conditions which may be maintained within such zones.
(Ord. of 2/18/02, § 1)
Sec. 8-8-2 - Definitions.
When used in this chapter the following words and phrases shall be the meanings given in this Section:
(1)
Hazardous waste or material. Any waste or material which because of its quantity, concentration or physical, chemical or infectious characteristics may:
a.
Cause or significantly contribute to an increase in mortality or an increase in serious irreversible or incapacitation reversible illness; or
(b)
Pose a substantial present or potential hazard to human health or to the environment when improperly treated stored, transported, disposed of or otherwise managed.
(2)
Sanitary landfill. A disposal site where solid wastes, including putrescible wastes, or hazardous wastes, is disposed of on land by placing earth cover thereon.
(3)
Wellhead. The upper terminal of a well, including adapters, ports, seals, valves, and other attachments.
(Ord. of 2/18/02, § 2)
Sec. 8-8-3 - Establishment of wellhead protection zone.
There is hereby established a use district known as a wellhead protection zone, identified and described as:
(1)
Existing wellheads: All the area within a circle of which the center is the water supply wellhead and the radius of which is two hundred fifty (250) feet.
(2)
Newly developed wellheads: All the area within a circle of which the center is the water supply wellhead and the radius of which is five hundred (500) feet.
(Ord. of 2/18/02, § 3)
Sec. 8-8-4 - Permitted uses.
The following shall be permitted within wellhead protection zones:
(1)
Any use permitted within existing agricultural or single family residential districts, except that the minimum residential lot size for a lot any portion of which lies within the wellhead protection zone shall not be less than one (1) acre; and
(2)
Any other open land use where any building located on the property is incidental and accessory to the primary open land use.
(Ord. of 2/18/02, § 4)
Sec. 8-8-5 - Prohibited uses.
The following uses of conditions shall be and are hereby prohibited within wellhead protection zones, whether or not such use or condition may otherwise be ordinarily included as a part of a use permitted under Section 8-8-4 of this chapter:
(1)
Surface use or storage of hazardous materials, expressly including commercial use of agricultural pesticides;
(2)
Septic tanks or drain fields appurtenant thereto;
(3)
Impervious surfaces other than roofs of buildings and street, and driveways and walks serving buildings permitted under Section 8-8-4 of the chapter;
(4)
Sanitary landfills;
(5)
Hazardous waste disposal sites;
(6)
Storm water infiltration basins;
(7)
Underground storage tanks;
(8)
Sanitary sewer lines within one hundred fifty (150) feet of a well head.
(Ord. of 2/18/02, § 5)
Sec. 8-8-6 - Administration.
The policies and procedures for administration of any wellhead protection zone established under this chapter, including without limitations those applicable to non-conforming uses, exceptions, enforcement and penalties, shall be the same as provided in the existing zoning ordinance for the City of Sandersville, as the same is presently enacted or may from time to time be amended.
(Ord. of 2/18/02, § 6)
