Chapter 14 - FIRE PREVENTION AND PROTECTION[1]
Footnotes:
--- (1) ---
State Law reference— Fire protection and safety, O.C.G.A. § 25-1-1 et seq.

ARTICLE I. - IN GENERAL

Sec. 14-1. - Fire marshal.
The fire marshal in and for the county is designated as the fire marshal for the town.
(Code 1984, § 3-2-1; Ord. No. 295, 4-19-1995)
Secs. 14-2—14-20. - Reserved.
ARTICLE II. - FIRE PREVENTION CODE AND STANDARDS
DIVISION 1. - GENERALLY

Sec. 14-21. - Enforcement officer defined.
As used in this article, the term "enforcement officer" means the person designated to enforce the provisions of this article.
Sec. 14-22. - Compliance.
It shall be unlawful for any person to violate this article, to permit or maintain such a violation, to refuse to obey any provision hereof, or to fail or refuse to comply with any such provision or regulation except as variation may be allowed by the action of the enforcement officer in writing. Proof of such unlawful act or failure shall be deemed prima facie evidence that such act is that of the owner, occupant or other person in control of the premises. Prosecution or lack thereof of either the owner, occupant, or the person in charge shall not be deemed to relieve any of the others.
Sec. 14-23. - Permits and plans.
(a)
The enforcement officer shall examine, or cause to be examined, submitted plans and accompanying documents for evidence of compliance with the provisions of this article.
(b)
The building or structure shall not be occupied prior to the enforcement officer issuing a permit that indicates that applicable provisions of the fire prevention code have been met.
(c)
Every new business locating in a nonresidential zoning district must complete an inspection application. Such application must also be completed for permitted or conditional uses (excluding single-family residences and home occupations) allowed in the AR agricultural/residential) zoning district. No occupational tax certificate is to be issued by the town until a copy of enforcement officer's certificate of fire safety compliance is received in the office of the town clerk.
(d)
The adoption of these provisions is done to facilitate proper inspection activities by the town relating to construction and maintenance of buildings within the town and relating to public safety, health and general welfare.
(e)
Subjects covered; functions of officers. It shall be the duty of the enforcement officer to enforce all laws and ordinances of the town covering the following:
(1)
The prevention of fires;
(2)
The storage, sale and use of combustible, flammable or explosive materials;
(3)
The installation and maintenance of automatic and other fire alarm systems and fire extinguishing equipment;
(4)
The maintenance and regulation of fire escapes;
(5)
The means and adequacy of exits, in case of fire, from factories, schools, hotels, lodging houses, asylums, hospitals, churches, halls, theaters, amphitheaters, and all other places in which numbers of persons work, live, or congregate, from time to time, for any purpose;
(6)
The investigation of the cause, origin, and circumstances of fires;
(7)
The maintenance of fire cause and loss records.
(f)
The enforcement officer shall examine plans for evidence of compliance with applicable requirements of specific Code sections. The enforcement officer may require tests or other investigations to be conducted by an agency satisfactory to the jurisdiction when appliances, devices, equipment, or systems intended for installation do not specifically meet the requirements of this Code, but meet the intent of this Code.
(g)
The enforcement officer shall have such other powers and perform such other duties as set forth in other sections of this Code and as may be conferred and imposed from time to time by law.
(h)
Investigation of fires. The enforcement officer shall investigate the cause, origin, and circumstances of every fire occurring in the county by which property has been destroyed or damaged and, so far as possible, shall determine whether the fire is the result of carelessness or design. Such investigation shall begin immediately upon the occurrence of such fire. The enforcement officer shall take charge immediately of the physical evidence, shall notify the other authorities designated by law to pursue the investigation of such matters, and shall further cooperate with other agencies in the collection of evidence and in the prosecution of the case.
(i)
Inspections; orders. The enforcement officer shall inspect or cause to be inspected all premises on a periodic basis, and shall make such orders as may be necessary for the enforcement of the laws and ordinances governing the same and for the safeguarding of life and property from fire, explosion and other hazards incident to the use and occupancy of buildings, structures, or premises.
(j)
Correction of unsafe conditions.
(1)
Whenever any inspector, as defined above, shall find in any building, or upon any premises or other places, combustible or explosive matter or dangerous accumulations of rubbish or unnecessary accumulation of waste paper, boxes, shavings, or any highly flammable materials especially liable to fire, and which are so situated as to endanger property; or shall find obstructions to or on fire escapes, stairs, passageways, doors, or windows liable to interfere with operations of the fire department or egress of occupants in case of fire, the inspector shall order the same to be removed or remedied, and such order shall forthwith be complied with by the owner or occupant of such premises or buildings, subject to the appeals procedure provided for in the county fire prevention code.
(2)
Any owner or occupant failing to comply with such order within a reasonable period after the service of the order shall be liable to penalties as hereinafter provided.
(3)
The service of any such order may be made upon the occupant of the premises to whom it is directed, either by delivering a copy of same to such occupant personally, or leaving it with any person in charge of the premises, or, in case no such person is found upon the premises, by affixing a copy thereof in a conspicuous place on the door to the entrance of the premises. Whenever it may be necessary to serve such an order upon the owner of premises, such order may be served either by delivering to and leaving with such person a copy of the order, or, if such owner is absent from the jurisdiction of the officer making the order, by mailing such copy by certified mail to the owner's last known post office address.
(k)
Record of fires. The enforcement officer shall compile and keep a record of all fires and of all the facts concerning the same, including injuries, deaths, rescues of persons, and statistics as to the extent of such fires and the damage caused thereby, and whether such losses were covered by insurance, and if so, in what amount.
(l)
Annual report. The enforcement officer shall make an annual report of his activities to the town manager. This report shall contain all proceedings under the fire prevention code with such statistics as the enforcement officer may wish to include therein.
(m)
Amendments. The fire chief of the county fire department and/or the director of emergency services or the enforcement officer shall also recommend any amendments to the county fire prevention code or ordinance which shall be desirable.
(n)
Scope of fire prevention code. The provisions of the county fire prevention code shall apply equally to both public and private property, and it shall apply to all structures and their occupancies, except as otherwise specified.
(o)
Penalty. Any person who shall violate any of the provisions of the code adopted in this chapter; or shall fail to comply therewith; or shall violate or fail to comply with any order made thereunder; or shall build in violation of any details, statements, specifications, or plans submitted or approved thereunder; or shall operate not in accordance with the provisions of any certificate, permit, or approval issued thereunder, and from which no appeal has been taken; or who shall fail to comply with such an order as affirmed or modified by the enforcement officer or by a court of competent jurisdiction within the time fixed herein, shall severally for each and every violation and noncompliance, respectively, be guilty of an offense. The imposition of a penalty for any violation shall not excuse the violation, nor shall the violation be permitted to continue. All such persons shall be required to correct or remedy such violations or defects within a reasonable time, and when not otherwise specified, the application of the above penalty shall not be held to prevent the enforced removal of prohibited conditions.
(p)
Appeals. The town council at the time that an appeal is filed shall serve as the official board of appeals and adjustments for the fire prevention code. Any appeal filed shall conform to the requirements of the International Fire Code as adopted by the town.
(Code 1984, § 3-2-21)
Sec. 14-24. - Bureau of fire prevention permit/inspection fee schedule.
The following fees shall be charged and collected:
EXPAND
Plan review fees:
The fee schedule for building plan reviews shall be as follows:
Per square foot $0.10
80%, 100% and first follow-up inspection will be allowed under the construction permit with no additional charge.
A second follow-up inspection will require a $25.00 fine or reinspection fee in advance.
A third and any subsequent follow-up inspection will require a $50.00 fine or reinspection fee in advance.
Certificate of fire safety compliance $50.00
Permit fees:
Bonfires, brush, leaves, etc.
Residential—One day No charge
Commercial (contractors, developers)—60 days $100.00Combustible dust producing operations
Temporary or one year maximum $25.00
Compressed or liquefied gases (nonresidential)
Storage/transfer/use
Temporary or one year maximum $50.00
Explosive materials
Storage/transfer/use
Temporary only $75.00
Blasting
Need proof of insurance and copy of state license
Temporary only $75.00
Flammable/combustible liquids
Class I
Storage/handling/use storage, handling or use of Class I flammable liquids in excess of 15 gal. (58.78 L) inside of any building or in excess of 60 gal. (227.1 L) outside of any buildings $25.00
Class II/Class III
Storage/handling/use storage, handling or use of Class II or Class III flammable or combustible liquids in excess of 25 gal. (94.63 L) in a building or 60 gal. (227.1 L) outside of a building $25.00
Storage/handling/use of containers of more than:
2,000 gal. (7570 L) individual water capacity or an aggregate water capacity of 4,000 gal. (15,140 L) of flammable compressed gases $25.00
10,000 gal. (37,850 L) individual water capacity or an aggregate water capacity of 20,000 gal. (75,700 L) of flammable compressed gases $25.00
For each temporary installation of flammable compressed gases in a place of assembly $25.00
Storage/handling/use of containers:
Flammable liquefied gases of 2,000 gal. (75,700 L) individual water capacity or an aggregate water capacity of 4,000 gal. (15,140 L) $25.00
Storage/handling/use of liquefied medical gases:
Exceeding 2,000 gal. (7570 L) water capacity in any one container or aggregate water capacity of 4,000 gal. (15,140 L) $25.00
Installation or removal of tanks for Class I, II, III of flammable combustible liquids (underground) $100.00 per tank
Flammable finishing (paint booths, strippers)
Temporary or one year maximum $25.00
Fireworks display (only to displayers)
Must provide license $50.00
Pryroxylin plastics - cellulose nitrate
Use/storage
Temporary or one year maximum $25.00
Chlorine and derivatives (pool supplies: nonresidential)
Use/storage
Temporary or one year maximum $25.00
Hazardous materials/chemicals
Use/storage
Temporary or one year maximum $50.00
Welding, cutting and hot work
Only one year $10.00
Heated tar pots—roofing operations
Use/storage—inspection required $10.00
Loose combustible storage
Temporary or one year $25.00
Installation of fire suppression systems
To include engineered or pre-engineered systems such as sprinkler systems; hood systems; and other fire protection equipment. (Does not include portable fire extinguisher) $100.00
Copies of documents (including fire reports) $2.00
  Sec. 14-25. - International fire code adopted; conflicts.
The 2003 International Fire Code, and all revisions and/or amendments thereto as hereafter enacted, are hereby adopted as the code of fire rules and regulations for the town, with certain exceptions which may be set out. Where the provisions of the 2003 International Fire Code conflict with this article, this article shall be superior and shall control.
Sec. 14-26. - Open burning.
The provisions of this section amend the specific section of article II, Fire Prevention Code, specifically section 307 of the International Fire Prevention Code, and it is hereby amended or revised consistent with this section. No person shall cause, suffer, allow, or permit open burning in any area of the town, except as follows:
(1)
Open burning not requiring permit. No person shall cause, suffer or allow open burning in any area of the town without a permit except as follows:
a.
For the recreational purpose of cooking food for immediate human consumption;
b.
Fires set for the purpose of training firefighting personnel authorized by the county director of fire and emergency services;
c.
Operation of devices using open flames such as tar kettles, blow torches, welding torches, portable heaters, and other flame-making equipment where approved safety measures are used; and
d.
Setting and maintenance by contractors and tradesmen of miscellaneous small warning fires for their workers.
(2)
Fire extinguished. The county department of fire and emergency services shall have the authority to order that any fire be extinguished if it is determined that there is a danger to public safety, a nuisance or sign of environmental harm.
(3)
Permits required. If, in the opinion of the fire marshal of the county, there are no adequate disposal facilities reasonably available for the particular combustible materials involved, the following open burning may be allowed with the appropriate permit so long as the burning pile size shall be no greater than ten feet wide, ten feet long, and ten feet high, or 1,000 cubic feet of material; and no more than one pile shall be burning at a time. In addition, all burning (both residential and commercial) shall occur consistent with the requirements of subsection (3)c of this section.
a.
Residential permit. A residential permit shall be issued without charge for the following types of open burning:
1.
Reduction of leaves, clippings, brush and limbs on residential property by or through direction of the owner of the premises;
2.
Disposal of tree limbs from storm damage; or
3.
For weed abatement, disease, and pest prevention.
Fire extinguishing equipment such as a garden hose, shovel, rake, or other device shall be readily available. The county department of fire and emergency services retains authority to extinguish any fire in the event that complaints are received.
b.
Commercial permit. A commercial permit shall be issued by the county bureau of fire prevention for all types of open burning deemed commercial in nature. Commercial permits are available under certain circumstances at no charge. Unless the commercial permit falls clearly within the guidelines requiring no charge, a charge will be assessed for the commercial permit. All types of burning requiring permits are deemed commercial in nature unless they are designated under subsection (3)a of this section.
1.
The following types of open burning are available without charge but require a commercial permit:
(i)
Carrying out recognized agricultural procedures necessary for production or harvesting of crops with the appropriate forestry permit.
(ii)
Burning over of any forest land by the owner of such land with the appropriate forestry permit and a copy of the prescribed burning unit plan.
2.
The following types of open burning shall be assessed a permit fee as set from time to time by the county board of commissioners:
(i)
Destruction of combustible demolition;
(ii)
Open burning for the purpose of land clearing or construction of right-or way- maintenance provided the prevailing winds at the time of burning are away from the major portion of the area's population.
3.
Air curtain destructor; requirements. All open burnings which require the type of commercial permit for which the requester is assessed a fee must be accomplished through the proper use of an air curtain destructor:
(i)
The location of the air curtain destructor must be at least 500 feet from any occupied structure or public road;
(ii)
No more than one air curtain destructor may be operated within a ten-acre area at one time or there must be at least 1,000 feet between any two air curtain destructors;
(iii)
Only wood waste consisting of trees, logs, large brush and stumps which are relatively free of soil may be burned in the air curtain destructor;
(iv)
Tires or other rubber products, plastics, heavy oils or asphaltic based or impregnated materials may not be used to start or maintain the operation of the air curtain destructor;
(v)
The air curtain destructor must be constructed, installed and operated in a manner consistent with good air pollution control practice for minimizing emissions of fly ash and smoke; and
(vi)
The cleaning out of the air curtain destructor pit is performed in a manner to prevent fugitive dust.
c.
Open burning requirements.
1.
Materials such as heavy oils, gasoline, asphaltic materials, plastic, tires and items containing natural or synthetic rubber, or any other material producing dense smoke and/or obnoxious odors shall not be used for starting or maintaining an open fire.
2.
All burning shall be carried out between 8:00 a.m. and 6:00 p.m. and all fires shall be completely burned.
3.
All burning shall be located on private property so as not to interfere with any traffic on the public streets or sidewalks.
4.
All burning shall be conducted at least 50 feet from any structure or such other minimum distance requirement contained herein, whichever is greater.
5.
During any open burning, the burning activity shall be constantly attended by a competent person of at least 18 years of age.
d.
Exceptions. The fire marshal may grant specific or general classes of exceptions to or variances from the particular requirements of any rule, regulation or general order upon such conditions as the director of fire and emergency services may deem necessary to protect the public health, safety, and general welfare, if, upon petition, the director of fire and emergency services finds that strict compliance with such rule, regulation, or general order is inappropriate for one of the following reasons:
1.
Because of conditions beyond the control of the petitioner, i.e., those conditions which, though ordinary diligence be employed, remain unforeseeable or unpredictable, e.g., strikes, walkouts, or other industrial disturbances, embargoes, or other causes of like character; provided, however, that this shall not include conditions solely because they are dependent upon contingencies, i.e. including, but not limited to, the variable cost or availability of maintenance, equipment, labor, raw materials, fuel or energy;
2.
Because of special circumstances which would render strict compliance unreasonable, unduly burdensome, or impracticable due to special physical conditions or causes;
3.
Because strict compliance would result in substantial curtailment or closing of the business operation; or
4.
Because no alternative method of handling is available.
e.
Additional safety precautions; restrictions. If the fire marshal of the county determines that certain open burning otherwise permitted imposes a threat to the public health, safety and general welfare, the fire marshal shall have the authority to impose additional safety precautions or restrict the burning, including the issuance of a complete ban on the open burning in the particular location.
f.
Permits prohibited. During an air pollution emergency declared by the town council or other proper county or state authorities, no open burning of any kind shall be permitted unless open burning is required in the performance of an official duty or any public office, or fires necessary to thwart or prevent a hazard which cannot be properly managed by any other means, or as necessary for the protection of public health.
g.
Penalty. Persons violating this article shall be subject to a fine not to exceed $1,000.00 per violation.
h.
Blanket prohibition; exceptions. Beginning January 1, 1996, all open burning shall be prohibited during the months of May, June, July, August, and September. The only exceptions to this general prohibition against open burning during the months of May, June, July, August and September shall be:
1.
For the recreational purpose of cooking food for human consumption;
2.
Fires set for the purpose of training firefighting personnel when authorized by the county director of fire and emergency services;
3.
Operation of devices using open flames such as tar kettles, blow torches, welding torches, portable heaters, and other flame-making equipment where approved safety measures are used.
(Code 1984, § 3-2-24)
Sec. 14-27. - Sprinklers in multifamily residences.
The 2010 edition of NFPA No. 13R, Standard for the Installation of Sprinkler Systems in Residential Occupancies Up to and Including Four Stories in Height, as published by the National Fire Protection Association, is hereby adopted by reference.
Secs. 14-28—14-57. - Reserved.
DIVISION 2. - WATER FOR FIRE PROTECTION SYSTEMS

Sec. 14-58. - Definition.
The term "private fire protection system" means that pipe and its appurtenances on private property between a source of water and the base of the riser (flange or flange and spigot piece or base fee) for automatic sprinkler systems, open sprinkler systems, water spray fixed systems, stand pipe systems, inlets to foam-making systems or the base elbow of private hydrants or monitor nozzles. When connected to the public water system, the private fire protection system begins at a point designated by the public water system.
Sec. 14-59. - Mandatory connection to public water system.
(a)
Every lot of a proposed subdivision shall be supplied with adequate water and waste water facilities which shall be approved by the state commissioner of health. Septic tank drain field approval shall be on an individual lot basis. Where public water or waste water facilities are available within the distance specified below, the subdivider shall assure that every lot of the subdivision shall be provided with public water.
EXPAND
Number of Lots Minimum Distance From Water Line*
Six or more 2,500 feet
  *Measured along public right-of-way to closest point on property. Cost differentials based on line sizes and fire hydrants needed to serve a subdivision versus that needed as part of the overall system will be determined by the water system.
For each additional lot after six an additional 150 feet shall be added per lot to the minimum distance from a water line requiring connection thereto.
(b)
Standard fire hydrants will be provided at the spacing defined under section 14-60. Design standards shall be as specified by the American Water Works Association.
Sec. 14-60. - Hydrant locations.
(a)
The distance between fire hydrants shall not exceed 600 feet in all residential property within the town.
(b)
Fire hydrants shall be spaced a distance not to exceed 400 feet apart in industrial, commercial and multifamily residential areas, including but not limited to hotels, motels, nursing homes, offices, educational buildings, apartments and condominiums.
(c)
Should the public safety require it, the enforcement officer may determine that additional fire hydrants be installed and the minimum spacing between fire hydrants be reduced.
(d)
Fire service connections shall be not less than 12 inches nor more than 28 inches above the level of the adjoining ground or pavement.
(e)
Fire hydrants and water mains in shopping centers, apartments, office condominiums, industrial, multifamily residential and other such private developments shall be measured as an extension of the public fire protection system. Systems of such design shall meet the requirements of the public fire protection system in regard to design, installation standards and testing criteria. Appropriate documentation shall be made available to the enforcement officer upon request. Ownership, repair and maintenance shall remain the responsibility of the private developer or owner, or his assigns.
(f)
Installation approval shall be the responsibility of the water system. Annual inspection shall be the responsibility of the fire marshal.
(Code 1984, § 3-2-23)
Sec. 14-61. - Standpipes required.
(a)
Approved standpipe systems shall be installed in all new nonresidential construction exceeding three stories or 36 feet in height. Height shall be determined by measuring from the lowest floor surface at grade to the uppermost floor surface.
(b)
All standpipe systems shall have a standard Siamese fire department connection.
(Ord. of 9-24-1987, § 5-4; Ord. No. 90-15, § 9-84, 9-27-1990)
Secs. 14-62—14-80. - Reserved.
DIVISION 3. - FIRE ALARM CODE

Sec. 14-81. - Title and purpose.
This division shall be known as "the fire alarm code." The purpose of this division is to provide for a safe, efficient, and dependable method of providing uniform fire alarm systems within the town.
(Code 1984, § 3-2-31)
Sec. 14-82. - Definitions.
The following words, terms and phrases, when used in this division, shall have the meanings ascribed to them in this section, except where the context clearly indicates a different meaning:
Occupancy classification means the use to which the structure is put. Occupancy classification shall further be defined in chapter 3 of the NFPA 101, Life Safety Code. The various classifications shall be ambulatory health care, assembly, business, day care, educational, health care, detention and correctional, residential, mercantile business, industrial and storage.
Substantial renovation means repairs and alterations to a structure the total cost of which exceeds 30 percent of the fair market value as shown on the then current property tax records of the county.
(Code 1984, § 3-2-32)
Sec. 14-83. - Violations.
(a)
Any person or persons failing to comply with this division shall be punished as provided in section 1-7.
(b)
If any building or structure fails to comply with the above standards so as to present a hazard to life and property, all persons shall be prohibited from occupying the structure by orders signed by the enforcement officer and posted on the premises.
(Code 1984, § 3-2-41)
Sec. 14-84. - Scope of division.
The provisions of this division apply to the selection, installation, alteration, equipment, and maintenance of all public and private fire alarm systems installed within the town, after the date of adoption of the ordinance from which this division is derived. The provisions of this division based upon occupancy shall also apply to changes of existing buildings and structures or portions thereof from one occupancy classification to another.
(Code 1984, § 3-2-33)
Sec. 14-85. - Validity of other laws.
Nothing in this division shall be construed to prevent the enforcement of other laws which prescribe more restrictive limitations.
(Code 1984, § 3-2-34)
Sec. 14-86. - National fire protection association standards adopted within this article.
The following NFPA standards shall apply within the boundaries of the town:
Standard 72 National Fire Alarm Code.
(Code 1984, § 3-2-35)
Sec. 14-87. - Occupancy requirements.
(a)
Every detention and correctional, educational, health care, and residential structure with an occupant load of greater than 50 persons shall have an appropriate alarm system which shall terminate in a remote supervising station or as otherwise required in NFPA 101.
(b)
Every assembly structure with an occupancy load of greater than 300 persons shall have an appropriate alarm system which shall terminate in a remote supervising station consistent with a remote supervising station fire alarm system.
(Code 1984, § 3-2-36)
Sec. 14-88. - False alarm user fee.
The enforcement officer is hereby permitted to issue a written warning after the first false alarm transmitted by an automatic signaling device. Said warning shall direct corrective action be taken by the owner and/or subscriber of the alarm system for necessary repairs. Written warnings shall be hand delivered or posted by affixing said warning to the subject property. Subsequent to the issuance of such written warning, the county fire department will be permitted to impose a user fee of $50.00 for each false alarm transmitted from an alarm system within the 90 days immediately following the date upon which said written notice was issued. All fees shall be deposited with the enforcement officer and shall become a part of the general fund of the county.
(Code 1984, § 3-2-37)
Sec. 14-89. - Special alarm systems.
All structures equipped with sprinkler systems which are built or substantially renovated, or which undergo a change in occupancy classification, shall have an automatic water flow alarm installed which will transmit an immediate alarm to a central monitoring station, with the exception of those sprinkler systems located in single-family residential structures.
(Code 1984, § 3-2-38)
Sec. 14-90. - Public/private systems terminating in the county central communications center.
(a)
All systems terminating at the central communications center will be inspected and approved before telephone lines and alarm apparatus are installed in the central communications center.
(b)
The county reserves the right to approve the type and arrangement of alarm equipment placed in the communications center. Should it become necessary to renovate or rearrange the communications center, each owner and/or subscriber of the system shall assume the burden of moving its own equipment.
(c)
It shall be unlawful for any person or persons to place the designated emergency fire telephone number into any automatic device so designed to transmit a recorded message to the communications center. A telephone number will be designated for use in such automatic telephone devices and will be so assigned by the county fire department.
(d)
All systems terminating in the central communications center shall be connected to a central alarm monitoring board. Each owner and/or subscriber shall bear all expenses incurred in connecting the system.
(Code 1984, § 3-2-39)
Sec. 14-91. - Solicitation of voluntary compliance.
Even though this division is not retroactive, all owners and tenants of buildings may be requested to voluntarily comply for the safety of those living in or doing business within the town.
(Code 1984, § 3-2-40)
