ARTICLE IV. - TELEPHONE AND TELEGRAPH COMPANY FEE[5]

Footnotes:
--- (5) ---
State Law reference— Public utility franchise fee authorized, O.C.G.A. § 36-34-2(7).

Sec. 22-190. - Due compensation for telephone companies with end user retail customers within the town.
(a)
The town hereby requires due compensation of three percent of actual recurring local service revenues, as defined in O.C.G.A. § 46-5-1(b)(8) and (b)(9); provided however, that any company which pays in excess of three percent of actual recurring local service revenues pursuant to an existing franchise agreement shall continue to pay in accordance with the agreement until the expiration of the franchise agreement of December 31, 2012, whichever occurs first, and any company which pays in excess of three percent of actual recurring local service revenues in accordance with an occupational license tax arrangement shall continue to pay in accordance with such payment schedule until December 31, 2012.
(b)
Regarding any telephone company that does not have retail, end user customers located within the town's municipal boundaries, the payment by such company to the town in accordance with the rates set by regulations promulgated by the state department of transportation for the use of its rights-of-way shall be considered the payment of due compensation.
(Code 1984, § 2-5-84)
Sec. 22-191. - Authorized designee.
The town clerk shall, on behalf of the town, exercise day-to-day administrative duties necessary to fulfill the regulatory authority of the town under O.C.G.A. § 46-5-1 and shall perform the following duties:
(1)
Review application information submitted by a telegraph or telephone company to the town, and, if an application is incomplete, notify the telegraph or telephone company within 15 business days of the receipt of such application, identifying in such notice application deficiencies.
(2)
Report the receipt of a completed application to the town council within 60 days of the receipt of such completed application.
(3)
Review payment of due compensation submitted by the company to ensure compliance with the provisions of the O.C.G.A. § 46-5-1 and this article.
(4)
Coordinate between a telegraph or telephone company and all town departments on any matter relating to O.C.G.A. § 46-5-1 or this article.
(5)
Arrange and evaluate, no more than once a year, a comprehensive review of the records of a company which is reasonably related to the calculation and payment of due compensation.
(6)
Provide to all telegraph and telephone companies located in its right-of-way written notice of annexations and changes in municipal corporate boundaries.
(Code 1984, § 2-5-85)
Secs. 22-192—22-220. - Reserved.
