Chapter 8 - ELECTIONS[1]

Footnotes:
--- (1) ---
State Law reference— Georgia Election Code, O.C.G.A. § 21-2-1 et seq.

Sec. 8-1. - Voting district.
The incorporated limits of the town shall constitute the voting district for the town elections.
(Code 1984, § 2-2-3)
State Law reference— Designation of precincts, O.C.G.A. § 21-2-260.
Sec. 8-2. - Polling place.
The polling place for town elections shall be the Tyrone First Baptist Church. In addition, early voting may take place at the Tyrone Library during the week preceding the election date.
(Code 1984, § 2-2-4)
Sec. 8-3. - Persons qualified to vote.
All persons qualified and registered to vote in the last municipal election who have not been purged from the list of electors shall be qualified to vote; and all persons qualified and registered to vote in town elections shall be eligible to vote.
(Code 1984, § 2-2-6)
Sec. 8-4. - Office.
Each candidate, in his notice of candidacy shall specifically designate the office which he seeks and shall attach thereto an affidavit stating:
(1)
His residence, with street and number, if any, and his post office address;
(2)
His profession, business, or occupation, if any;
(3)
The name of his precinct or election district;
(4)
That he is a resident and an elector of the town, and is eligible to vote in the election in which he is a candidate;
(5)
The name of office he is seeking;
(6)
That he is eligible to hold such office;
(7)
That he has never been convicted and sentenced in any court of competent jurisdiction for fraudulent violation of primary or election laws, malfeasance in office, or felony involving moral turpitude under the laws in this state or any other state or the United States, or the civil rights have been restored; and
(8)
That he will not knowingly violate any provisions of the Georgia Municipal Election Code or any rules and regulations adopted thereunder.
(Code 1984, § 2-2-13)
Sec. 8-5. - Plurality determines.
The candidates for each respective office who receives the highest number of votes cast for such office by the electors of the town shall be elected to such office. In the event of a run-off election to break a tie vote, the same shall be held two weeks from the general election under the same rules and regulations as applicable to the general election.
(Code 1984, § 2-2-15)
Sec. 8-6. - County administration of municipal elections.
In those years in which municipal elections in the town coincide with county elections, municipal elections in the town shall be conducted and managed by the board of elections for the county and personnel operating under the supervision of said board of elections.
(Code 1984, § 2-2-18)
