Chapter 18 - LAW ENFORCEMENT
ARTICLE I. - IN GENERAL

Secs. 18-1—18-18. - Reserved.
ARTICLE II. - POLICE DEPARTMENT[1]

Footnotes:
--- (1) ---
State Law reference— Georgia Peace Officer Standards and Training Act, O.C.G.A. § 35-8-1 et seq.

Sec. 18-19. - Composition of the police department.
The police department shall consist of those officers and employees of those ranks and positions as approved by the mayor and council.
(Code 1984, § 3-1-2)
Sec. 18-20. - Responsibilities.
(a)
General. The department shall be responsible for patrol, traffic control, investigation of accidents, investigation of crimes, apprehension of offenders, court appearances, security of business establishments and for any other matters of public safety and law enforcement as directed by the mayor and council.
(b)
Code enforcement. The town manager or his designee is the chief code enforcement officer for the town. In addition to the responsibilities set forth herein, officers of the department shall have the same authority as the designee of the code enforcement officer in addition to other remedies, and after due notice to the owner of the property or the permit holder or any other person violating any provision of this Code, if such notice is required by ordinance, issue a citation for violation of the provisions of this Code and the zoning ordinance of the town and any other ordinance or regulation of the town in the same manner as the designee of the code enforcement officer and require the presence of the violator in the municipal court.
(Code 1984, § 3-1-3; Ord. No. 501, § 1, 5-17-2007)
Sec. 18-21. - Chief of police.
(a)
The chief of the police department shall be appointed by the mayor and council based upon recommendations received by the town manager. The chief of police shall serve without reappointment until terminated according to town policies or otherwise resigns.
(b)
All other police department personnel shall be accountable to the chief of police.
(c)
The chief of police shall have jurisdiction over the entire operation of the police department. He shall keep such records and make such reports of the activities of the police department as may be required by the town manager, town council or the mayor. The chief of police shall be responsible for the operation of the police department and all of its functions. All persons employed by the police department shall serve subject to the orders and direction of the chief of police.
(Code 1984, §§ 3-1-4, 3-1-5)
Sec. 18-22. - Qualifications of police officers.
Each person employed as a police officer shall possess the following qualifications:
(1)
Be a person of good moral character and at least 20 years of age on the date of employment;
(2)
Be a graduate of an accredited high school or have obtained a GED;
(3)
Be in excellent physical condition; and
(4)
Have completed a course of study offered by the state police academy and be certified as a police officer.
(Code 1984, § 3-1-6)
State Law reference— Georgia Peace Officer Standards and Training Act, O.C.G.A. § 35-8-1 et seq.
Sec. 18-23. - Oath of office.
All police officers shall, before entering upon the performance of their duties, subscribe to an oath to be administered by the municipal judge. A copy of the oath shall be entered into the officer's permanent personnel file and in the permanent records of the town.
(Code 1984, § 3-1-7)
Sec. 18-24. - Official bond.
All members of the police department may be bonded for the faithful performance of their duties as police officers. The bonding fee shall be paid from the general funds of the town.
(Code 1984, § 3-1-8)
Sec. 18-25. - Promulgation of rules and regulations.
The chief of police may formulate and prescribe such rules and regulations as he may deem necessary for the operation of the police department.
(Code 1984, § 3-1-9)
Sec. 18-26. - Custodian of lost, abandoned or stolen property; service of process.
The chief of police shall be the custodian of all lost, abandoned or recovered stolen property in the town, and shall dispose of such property as provided by state law or town ordinance. The chief of police shall have authority to serve all writs, warrants, summons and other processes duly issued as provided by law or the ordinances of the town. The officers and patrolmen employed by the police department shall likewise have the authority to serve writs, warrants, summons and other processes by direct order of the chief of police.
(Code 1984, § 3-1-10)
Sec. 18-27. - Conduct of members.
It shall be the duty and responsibility of every member of the police department to conduct himself in a proper and law-abiding manner. All police officers in the performance of their duties shall avoid the use of unnecessary force.
(Code 1984, § 3-1-11)
Sec. 18-28. - Police as witnesses.
Every member of the police department shall appear as a witness in the courts of the town and the state and the federal courts when their appearance is necessary in the administration of justice.
(Code 1984, § 3-1-12)
