Chapter 30 - PARKS AND RECREATION

Sec. 30-1. - Establishment; purpose.
The purpose of this chapter is to establish a formal ordinance concerning the use of the parks, recreational areas, recreational facilities, and other town facilities in the town. Facilities owned by or under the control of the town shall be made available to the citizens of the county for their use.
(Code 1984, § 2-6-1)
Sec. 30-2. - Control of parks.
Those facilities located at recreation areas shall be under the control of the town manager or his designee.
(Code 1984, § 2-6-2)
Sec. 30-3. - General powers and duties.
The town manager or his designee shall establish a calendar for facility reservations. Town-sponsored events shall have priority for the use of these facilities. The town manager or his designee shall also enforce the rules and regulation governing the use of the parks, recreational areas and recreational facilities.
(Code 1984, § 2-6-3)
Sec. 30-4. - Fee schedules; facility use agreements.
(a)
The town manager or his designee with the concurrence of the town council may establish fee schedules and/or facility use agreements for parks, recreational areas, recreational facilities and other town facilities as deemed necessary. Applications for facility use agreements shall be made at the Tyrone Recreation Center.
(b)
The facility use agreement shall provide for the rental/lease of certain facilities and include, but not necessarily be limited to:
(1)
The rules, regulations and operating procedures for the facility to be used;
(2)
The fees and deposits for rental/lease, security and cleanup;
(3)
The name, address and phone number of the person responsible for the lease;
(4)
The dates, times, and purpose for the rental/lease including the name of any group using the facility; and
(5)
A statement by the person responsible for the rental/lease that no activity shall be permitted which can be deemed illegal, immoral or otherwise contrary to the public good.
(Code 1984, § 2-6-4)
Sec. 30-5. - Hours of operation.
No town facility shall be open for use before 7:00 a.m. or remain open after 11:00 p.m. without prior approval of the town council. The hours of operation for each facility shall be posted in a conspicuous location. The town manager or his designee may close town facilities when in his opinion the use of these facilities would be unsafe, would result in extraordinary damage to the facilities, or during inclement weather.
(Code 1984, § 2-6-5)
Sec. 30-6. - Rules and regulations.
(a)
Permits are issued to organizations or individuals to reserve facilities for stipulated times. When the permit is not in effect the facility will be open for public use.
(b)
Town programs and activities will have first priority at all facilities.
(c)
Facilities may be reserved for town-sponsored clinics and classes, tournaments, leagues, private activities or parties where there is no charge for admission; and school sponsored classes and teams.
(d)
Any sponsoring team must be predominately (50 percent or more) made up of county residents, unless approved by the town council.
(e)
The using organization shall be responsible for field preparations such as lining the field, dragging the field, and other related activities. The town may provide other major maintenance to facilities on request by contacting the town manager or his designee. Special maintenance requests shall be submitted in written form to the town manager or his designee at least three working days prior to date needed.
(f)
No one will be allowed to construct any new facility, paint any facility or make changes in present facilities without written approval of the town. To obtain approval, a written request should be submitted to the town manager or his designee.
(g)
All damages to any facility should be reported to the town manager or his designee, such as light failure, bleacher damage, facility damage, field damage, etc. Also, any injuries to players, coaches, or spectators must be reported within three working days from date of the injury.
(h)
The organization using the park shall be responsible for the conduct of its program participants including coaches, players, and spectators.
(i)
Burning of trash is prohibited in town parks.
(j)
Alcoholic beverages are prohibited at all town facilities.
(k)
The use of tobacco products is prohibited, except in designated areas, at all town facilities.
(l)
Fireworks are strictly prohibited.
(m)
Organizations are responsible for policing litter before, during, and after each event and is responsible for disposing of it properly.
(n)
With the exception of designated parking areas, only official vehicles are authorized unless specifically authorized by the town manager or his designee. Violations may result in impounding of vehicles.
(o)
Only vehicles with visible handicap stickers are permitted to park in designated handicap areas. Violations may result in the impounding of vehicle.
(p)
No parking on the side of the road. Violations may result in a parking ticket or cars may be towed.
(q)
Utility fees may be charged for use of lights or water.
(r)
All lights will be turned off by 11:00 p.m.
(s)
Any town employee, elected official or authorized agent has the authority to require individuals or groups to leave for violations of expressed or implied rules.
(t)
The town has the right to revoke the permit of any organization violating these policies if the organizations or individuals fail to provide and conduct a program beneficial to the town or if in violation of these rules.
(u)
No facility may be reserved more than six months in advance.
(v)
Reservations will be on a first paid basis and the town cannot hold an unpaid reservation.
(w)
Organizations or individuals can call the Tyrone Recreation Center and check for availability before physically appearing to reserve the facility.
(x)
Any requests to waive the fees must be approved by the mayor and council. Requests to waive the fees must be submitted in written form at least three weeks before reservation.
(y)
A deposit will be required for all facilities for which fees are charged.
(z)
Organizations or individuals will have five working days after the event in which to retrieve any required deposit or it may be forfeited.
(aa)
Organizations or individuals are required to pay the fees that apply for each facility before use.
(bb)
Pavilion rental is limited to the number of people that it can safely hold according to the number of parking spaces provided.
(cc)
The amplification of music is prohibited unless prior approval by the town manager or his designee is obtained.
(dd)
Picnic pavilions at town parks are available for public use. This shall include use by groups such as scouts, athletic associations, church groups, school groups, and political parties, as well as use for birthday parties and family reunions.
(ee)
The facility must be left in a clean and orderly condition. The area must be policed for any trash and disposed of properly in order to have the deposit returned.
(ff)
Any governmental organization, including public schools, are allowed to reserve the town's parks at no charge; however the town requires these entities to call in advance to reserve these facilities.
(gg)
The town sports fields may be reserved when not in use by the youth associations holding current facility use agreements with the town.
(hh)
Organizations or individuals must have a permit displayed that has been issued by the town.
(Code 1984, § 2-6-6; Ord. No. 473, § 1, 7-21-2005; Ord. No. 2010-01, §§ 2—5, 1-21-2010)
