ARTICLE I. - IN GENERAL

Sec. 109-1. - Short title.
This chapter shall be known and may be cited as the "Land Development Regulations of the Town of Tyrone, Georgia."
(Code 1984, § 6-7-1; Ord. No. 340, 6-3-1997)
Sec. 109-2. - Definitions.
The following words, terms and phrases, when used in this chapter, shall have the meanings ascribed to them in this section, except where the context clearly indicates a different meaning:
As-built drawing means amended site plans specifying the locations, dimensions, elevations, capacities and operational capabilities of road and drainage structures and facilities as they have been constructed.
Base flood means the flood having a one percent chance of being equaled or exceeded in any given year.
Buffer means an area to set aside and separate different use districts or to separate a special use from other property by diminishing sound transmission and interrupting vision by landscaping or fencing; not to be used for other structures.
Conceptual plat means a plat made preparatory to the preliminary plat to enable the subdivider to save time and expense in reaching general agreement with the planning commission and town engineer as to the form of the plat and the objectives of this chapter.
Construction means any alteration of land for the purposes of achieving its development or changed use, including particularly any preparation for, building of, or erection of a structure.
Developer means any person who acts in his own behalf or as the agent of an owner of property and engages in alteration of land or vegetation in preparation for construction activity.
Development means any action in preparation for construction activities which results in alteration of either land or vegetation.
Drainage means a general term applied to the removal of surface or subsurface water from a given area either by gravity or by pumping, commonly applied herein to surface water.
Drainage plan means a plan using appropriate and commonly accepted engineering standards which specifies the means for alteration or development of a drainage system, as may be required by the town engineer.
Drainage system means the surface and subsurface systems for the removal of water from the land, including both the natural elements of streams, marshes, swales and ponds, whether of an intermittent or continuous nature, and the manmade element which includes culverts, ditches, channels, retention facilities and the storm sewer system.
Driveway means a vehicular access corridor privately owned and maintained. Residential driveways shall not serve more than two single-family residential lots.
Erosion means the general process whereby earth is moved by flowing surface or subsurface water, wind, or other naturally occurring forces.
Flood means a temporary rise in the level of rivers, streams and lakes which results in inundation of areas not ordinarily covered by water.
Flood hazard boundary map means a map issued by the Federal Emergency Management Agency in the report entitled the Flood Insurance Study for the Town of Tyrone and any revisions thereto where the boundaries of the area of special flood hazard have been defined as "zone A."
Flood insurance rate map (FIRM) means an official map of a community on which the Federal Emergency Management Agency has delineated both the areas of special flood hazard and the risk premium zones applicable to the community.
Flood insurance study means the official report provided by the Federal Emergency Management Agency, containing flood profiles, as well as the flood boundary flood map and the water surface elevation of the base flood (IRF), without cumulatively increasing the water surface elevation more than one foot.
Intermediate regional flood (IRF) means a 100-year frequency flood as defined on the flood hazard map which has a probability of occurring once every 100 years or having a one percent chance of occurring each year.
Lot.
(1)
The term "lot" means a tract, portion, or parcel of land separated from other tracts, portions, or parcels by description of a subdivision plat of record or survey map or described by metes and bounds, and intended to be used to facilitate transfer of ownership or for building development.
(2)
For the purposes of this chapter, the term does not include any portion of a dedicated right-of-way.
Owner means the person in whom is vested the fee ownership, dominion or title of property, by proprietor; this term may also include a tenant, if chargeable under his lease for the maintenance of the property, and any agent of the owner or tenant, including a developer.
Resurface means installing one or more courses of asphalt construction over existing pavement.
Retention facility means a facility which provides for storage of stormwater runoff and controlled release of this runoff during and after a flood or storm.
Right-of-way means a strip or parcel of land occupied by or intended to be occupied by a street, crosswalk, utility system, water main, sanitary sewer or storm drain sewer main, drainage ditches and watercourses or any other valid public use. The usage of the term "right-of-way" for land platting purposes shall mean that every right-of-way hereafter established and shown on a record or final plat is to be separate and distinct from the lots or parcels adjoining such right-of-way, and not included within the dimensions or areas of such other lots or parcels. Right-of-way intended for streets, crosswalks, water mains, sanitary sewers, storm drains or other use involving maintenance by a public agency, shall be dedicated or deeded to public use by the maker of the plat on which such right-of-way is established.
Runoff means the portion of precipitation on the land which reaches the drainage system.
Runoff coefficient means the ratio of runoff to rainfall.
Sedimentation facility means natural, running water flowing continuously or intermittently in a channel on or below the surface of the ground.
Street means a way for vehicular traffic whether designated as an avenue, boulevard, road, highway, expressway, lane, alley, or other way, and for the purposes of this division, streets are divided into the following categories:
(1)
An "arterial street" is intended to provide higher travel speeds between or within communities, or to and from collectors and expressways. Access is controlled so that only community significant land use may have direct access to these streets.
(2)
A "collector street" connects residential streets to the highway system's major and higher arterials or provides access to nonresidential uses and arterials. Collectors form barriers between neighborhoods and are designed for higher speeds and traffic volumes than are residential streets. Collectors are classified as major collectors and minor collectors:
a.
The term "major collector" means the primary function is to carry traffic for most major intraurban trips over one mile, particularly during peak hours. These streets provide only limited direct access to adjacent land. This direct access is usually focused on major facilities, shopping centers or other significant traffic generators. Major collectors are usually designed with four travel lanes and may be either divided or undivided.
b.
The term "minor collector" means the primary function is to carry traffic for short to medium (one-half-mile to one-mile) intraurban trips. These streets receive traffic from residential streets and transmit it to major collectors and arterials. Minor collectors, spaced to relieve excessive traffic volumes on local streets, are commonly designed with two travel lanes.
(3)
The term "divided street" means any street with a median greater than 100 feet in length separating the travel lanes. A divided street may be a major collector, minor collector, industrial, commercial or residential street.
(4)
The term "private street" means any parcel of land set aside to provide access to a development and which will not be dedicated or deeded to the town. These streets shall be constructed to standards adopted by the town.
(5)
The term "public street" means any right-of-way dedicated or deeded to and accepted by the town for purposes of public travel. Public streets shall be constructed to standards adopted by the town.
(6)
A "residential street" functions primarily to provide access to residential areas. All residential streets are intended to accommodate relatively low traffic volumes to ensure safety in residential areas.
Structure means anything constructed or erected, the use of which requires a location on the ground, or attached to something having a location on the ground, including, but not limited to, tennis courts, fences, swimming pools and buildings.
Subdivider means any person, persons, partnership, corporation or other entity or the estate of such entity, having a proprietary interest in the land to be divided.
Subdivision means and includes all divisions of a tract or parcel of land into two or more lots, building sites, or other divisions for the purposes, whether immediate or future, of sale, gift, or building development and includes all division or development of land involving a new street or a change in an existing street. It shall also include resubdivision, the process of subdividing and the land or area subdivided; provided, however, division of land into parcels of five acres or more where no new street is involved are not included in this definition.
Substantial improvement means any repair, reconstruction, or improvement of a structure, the cost of which equals or exceeds 50 percent of the market value of the structure either before the improvement or repair is started, or if the structure has been damaged and is being restored, before the damage occurred. For the purpose of this definition, the term "substantial improvement" is considered to occur when the first alteration of any wall, ceiling, floor or other structural part of the building commences, whether or not that alteration affects the external dimensions of the structure. The term does not, however, include either:
(1)
Any project for improvement of a structure to comply with existing state or local health, sanitary, or safety code specifications which are solely necessary to assure safe living conditions; or
(2)
Any alteration of a structure listed on the National Register of Historic Places or a state inventory of historic places.
Tree means a woody plant which has a single or combined trunk with a caliper (diameter) of eight or more inches five feet above the ground, or any flowering ornamental woody plant having a caliper of two or more inches five feet above the ground.
Vegetation means all plant growth especially trees, shrubs, vines, ferns, mosses and grasses.
Wetlands means areas that are inundated or saturated by surface water or groundwater at a frequency and duration to support a prevalence of vegetation typically adapted for life in saturated soil conditions, as determined by the Army Corp of Engineers.
(Code 1984, § 6-7-3; Ord. No. 340, 6-3-1997)
Sec. 109-3. - Purpose and intent.
This chapter is enacted for the following purposes:
(1)
To encourage economically sound and stable land development;
(2)
To assure the provision of required streets, utilities, and other facilities and services of land developments;
(3)
To assure adequate provision of safe and convenient traffic access and circulation, both vehicular and pedestrian, in land development;
(4)
To assure the provision of needed public areas and building sites in land developments through the dedication or reservation of land for recreational, educational and other public purposes;
(5)
To assure that land development conforms with the currently approved comprehensive land use plan for the town;
(6)
To assure that the aesthetically pleasing atmosphere presently existing in the town will be maintained in order to promote the health, safety and welfare of all citizens of the town; and
(7)
To assure the preservation of the historic character of the town.
(Code 1984, § 6-7-2; Ord. No. 340, 6-3-1997)
Secs. 109-4—109-24. - Reserved.
