PART I - LOCAL ACTS
ARTICLE I. - BOARD OF COMMISSIONERS[1]

Footnotes:
--- (1) ---
Editor's note— Printed herein is 1914 Ga. Laws (Act No. 502), page 232, which created and established the board of commissioners of the county. Amendments to the act are indicated by parenthetical history notes following amended provisions. The absence of a history note indicates that the provision remains unchanged from the original act. Obvious misspellings have been corrected without notation. For stylistic purposes, a uniform system of headings and catchlines has been used. Additions made for clarity are indicated by brackets. Pursuant to 1976 Ga. Const. art. VI, § VI, ¶ IV, the term "ordinary" has been changed to "judge of the probate court." Pursuant to O.C.G.A. § 36-5-20, the term "commissioners of roads and revenues" has been changed to "board of commissioners" and the term "commissioner of roads and revenues" has been changed to "commissioner."
State Law reference— County government generally, O.C.G.A. § 36-1-1 et seq.; claims against counties, O.C.G.A. § 36-11-1 et seq.; code of ethics for government service, O.C.G.A. § 45-10-1.

Sec. 1. - Created; districts.
(a)
Those members of the Board of Commissioners of Ben Hill County who are serving as such on December 31, 2001, and any person selected to fill a vacancy in any such office shall continue to serve as such members until the regular expiration of their respective terms of office and upon the election and qualification of their respective successors. On and after January 1, 2003, the Board of Commissioners of Ben Hill County shall consist of five members all of whom shall be elected from commissioner districts described in subsection (b) of this section.
(b)
For purposes of electing members of the board of commissioners, Ben Hill County is divided into two commissioner districts designated as Commissioner District 2 and Commissioner District 3. Two members of the board shall be elected from each such district. Within Commissioner Districts 2 and 3, there are established Post 1 and Post 2 positions. One member shall be elected from Commissioner District 1 which shall consist of the entirety of Ben Hill County. Commissioner District 2 and Commissioner District 3 shall be and correspond to those two numbered districts described in and attached to and made a part of this Act and further identified as "Plan: benhillcc-2012 Plan Type: Local Administrator: Ben Hill User: Gina"
(b.1)
(1)
For the purposes of such plan:
(A)
The term "VTD" shall mean and describe the same geographical boundaries as provided in the report of the Bureau of the Census for the United States decennial census of 2010 for the State of Georgia. The separate numeric designations in a district description which are underneath a VTD heading shall mean and describe individual Blocks within a VTD as provided in the report of the Bureau of the Census for the United States decennial census of 2010 for the State of Georgia; and
(B)
Except as otherwise provided in the description of any district, whenever the description of any district refers to a named city, it shall mean the geographical boundaries of that city as shown on the census maps for the United States decennial census of 2010 for the State of Georgia.
(2)
Any part of Ben Hill County which is not included in Commissioner District 2 or Commissioner District 3 as described in subsection (b) of this section shall be included within that district contiguous to such part which contains the least population according to the United States decennial census of 2010 for the State of Georgia.
(3)
Any part of Ben Hill County which is not included in Commissioner District 2 or Commissioner District 3 as described in subsection (b) of this section as being included in a particular district shall nevertheless not be included within such district if such part is not contiguous to such district. Such noncontiguous part shall instead be included within that district contiguous to such part which contains the least population according to the United States decennial census of 2010 for the State of Georgia.
(b.2)
On the effective date of this subsection, former Commissioner District 1 shall be new Commissioner District 2 as described in subsection (b) of this section and former Commissioner District 2 shall be new Commissioner District 1 which shall include the entirety of Ben Hill County.
(c)
The member elected from Commissioner District Number 2 shall be the chairman of the board of commissioners.
(d)
For purposes of electing members of the board of commissioners, Commissioner District Number 1 shall have two posts to be known as Post Number 1 and Post Number 2 and Commissioner District Number 3 shall have two posts to be known as Post Number 1 and Post Number 2. At the time any person qualifies for nomination or election as a member from Commissioner District Number 1, such person shall designate the district and the post to which he or she seeks election and shall thereafter be qualified for election only to the district and post so designated. At the time any person qualifies for nomination or election as a member from Commissioner District Number 3, such person shall designate the district and the post to which he or she seeks election and shall thereafter be qualified for election only to the district and post so designated.
(e)
Each member of the board shall be a resident of the commissioner district he or she represents and shall be elected by only the voters of the district he or she represents. Vacancies shall be filled by the remaining commissioners' appointing a resident of the vacant district to serve until the next general election at which general election a successor to fill the unexpired term shall be elected. A vacancy shall occur when an elected member of the board dies, resigns, is recalled, or becomes incapacitated or disabled to the extent that he or she fails to attend three successive regular monthly meetings of the board.
(f)
At the November general election in 2002, members shall be elected to represent Post 2 of District 1 and Post 1 of District 3 for terms of office of four years beginning on January 1, 2003, and until their respective successors are elected and qualified. At the November general election in 2004, members shall be elected to represent Post 1 of District 1, District 2, and Post 2 of District 3 for terms of office of four years beginning on January 1, 2005, and until their respective successors are elected and qualified.
(g)
Successors to those members whose terms of office are specified in subsection (f) of this section shall be elected in the November general election immediately preceding the expiration of a term of office, shall take office on January 1 immediately following such election, and shall have terms of office of four years each and until their respective successors are elected and qualified.
(1991 Ga. Laws (Act No. 88), page 3753; 2002 Ga. Laws (Act No. 694), page 5165; 2012 Ga. Laws (Act No. 372), page 4206)
Editor's note— The plan referenced in subsection (b) (Plan: benhillcc-2012 Plan Type: local Administrator: Ben Hill User: Gina) has been omitted from this printing at the discretion of the editor. It may be found at 2012 Ga. Laws (Act No. 372), page 4206, and is available for public examination in the county offices.
Sec. 2. - Oath.
Be it further enacted by the authority aforesaid, that each of the persons as may hereafter be elected as county commissioners shall, before entering upon the performance of their duties, take and prescribe before the judge of the superior court of said county, or the judge of the probate court of said county, an oath to faithfully perform the duties of a commissioner under this Act and under the laws of this State.
Sec. 3. - Jurisdiction; meetings.
Be it further enacted by the authority aforesaid, that said board of county commissioners and their successors are hereby empowered to exercise jurisdiction over all county matters, set forth by general enactment, as well as all matters specially mentioned in this Act. The said board of county commissioners shall hold their regular meetings on the first Monday in each month at the court house, or some other convenient place in the city of Fitzgerald, beginning on the first Monday in January, 1915; provided that the regular time of meeting may be changed to some other day of the month by order on their minutes, of which due notice shall be given by publication in the official newspaper of said county; and provided, further, said commissioners may hold separate sessions at any time they may see fit and proper, or may be called together by the chairman of said county board for county purposes.
Sec. 4. - Quorum.
Be it further enacted by the authority aforesaid, That a majority of said commissioners shall constitute a quorum to transact business or exercise any powers herein delegated pertaining to the duties of said commissioners.
Sec. 5. - Repealed.
(1991 Ga. Laws (Act No. 88), page 3753)
Sec. 6. - Exclusive jurisdiction of what matters.
Be it further enacted by the authority aforesaid, that said board of county commissioners shall have exclusive jurisdiction when sitting for county purposes over the following subject-matters, to wit.: In building and controlling all property of the county as they may deem expedient according to law. Second. In levying a general tax for general purposes and special taxes for particular or special purposes, according to provisions of the Code and special enactments of the General Assembly. Third. In establishing, altering, building and abolishing all public roads, bridges, ferries in the county of Ben Hill in conformity with law. Fourth. In establishing and changing election precincts and lines of militia districts. Fifth. In examining, settling and allowing all claims against the county of Ben Hill. Sixth. In examining and auditing the accounts of all county officers who receive or pay out moneys of the county or the State and concurrent jurisdiction in renewing, either by themselves or their appointees, all records of county officers as required to be kept by law. Seventh. In making such rules and regulations for the maintenance and support of the poor of the county of Ben Hill, and for the promotion of health, as are permitted by law, and to them may seem right and proper. Eighth. To exercise such other powers over county matters as are not in conflict with existing laws.
Sec. 7. - Further powers stated.
Be it further enacted by the authority aforesaid, That said commissioners shall furthermore have power to exercise exclusive and original jurisdiction and control in Ben Hill County over all county matters that are now vested by law in the ordinaries of the counties of the State, so far relating to public roads, bridges, public buildings, property, misdemeanor and other convicts, management of the county jail and its fees, the control and maintenance of its paupers, assessing and collecting taxes, disbursing money for county purposes, and the execution of all laws with reference thereto.
Sec. 8. - Purchases of supplies, etc.; investigation of complaint; removal from office; appeal, right of; grand jury shall inquire; charge to grand jury.
Be it further enacted by the authority aforesaid, that said county commissioners shall not purchase directly or indirectly materials, livestock, supplies or other articles for any department of the county, from himself or from any co-partnership in which he may be interested either directly or indirectly, nor from any person directly or indirectly in his employ in any capacity whatsoever.
Whenever twenty-five qualified voters of the county of Ben Hill shall make written complaint on information and belief to the judge of the superior court of said county or to the judge of the probate court that any of said commissioners have been guilty of a violation of the foregoing provisions of Section 8, of this Act, the said judge of the superior court or the said judge of the probate court shall cause to be made before him to whom complaint is made an investigation of said charges at which investigation the accused shall have the benefit of counsel, if desired, and if said judge or judge of the probate court shall find the said commissioner guilty of the violation or violations charged, the said commissioner shall within three days be removed from office by a written order of the said judge or said judge of the probate court trying the charges, which order shall be recorded on the minutes of the board of commissioners, and the said judge of the probate court of the county of Ben Hill shall appoint a successor to said commissioner as provided by Section 16 of this Act. The accused, if tried before the judge of the probate court, shall have the right to appeal to the judge of the superior court, who shall hear the cause without a jury and in a final judgment either in vacation or in term time. Each grand jury charged by law with the duty of investigating the books and records and acts and doings of the county commissioners shall make or cause to be made special investigation with a view of ascertaining whether or not any commissioner or commissioners have been guilty of violating any of the provisions of the first paragraph of this section of this Act, and in such grand jury's general presentments a report must be embodied that such special investigation has been made and the results thereof specifically stated; if such results show that any commissioner or commissioners have been guilty of such violation or violations, then there shall be stated in such general presentments the particulars of such violation and thereupon the court shall proceed to cause to be made before it an investigation as is contemplated in the second paragraph of this section, just as if the complaint therein specified had been made to it, and with the same duty, authority, jurisdiction and power of summary removal. And the judge of the superior court shall, in his charge to each grand jury whose duty it is to make such investigation, before entering upon its work for the term, give specially in charge the provisions of this section of this Act.
Sec. 9. - Chain gang.
Be it further enacted by the authority aforesaid, that said county commissioners are hereby empowered to establish and maintain a county chain gang for the misdemeanor convicts of said county and for such other convicts as the county authorities are authorized by law to work upon a county chain gang, and to work the same upon the public roads of the county.
Sec. 10. - Orders or warrants to be signed by chairman; itemized and verified statement to be filed; duty of clerk; filing of statements.
Be it further enacted by the authority aforesaid, that the treasurer of the county of Ben Hill shall not disburse or pay out any of the funds from the county treasury on any order, or warrant, unless the same shall have been signed by the chairman of said board and its clerk; provided, this shall not apply to jury script and such orders drawn by the judge of the superior court or city court of Fitzgerald, in which said judge has exclusive jurisdiction. Before the chairman and clerks shall have the authority to draw any warrant, or order, on the treasurer of the county for the payment of any money, except in the instances mentioned in the last clause of the preceding sentence, there must be filed by the person in whose favor the order is drawn, an itemized, verified statement of the claim or account, and the claim shall be ordered paid by the action of said board in meeting assembled, which said last fact shall appear on the minutes of the meetings of said board.
(1915 Ga. Laws (Act No. 52), page 153)
Sec. 10A. - Warrants; vice-chairman.
Be it further enacted by the authority aforesaid that in the absence of the chairman or by resolution to that effect entered on the minutes of said Board of Commissioners of Ben Hill County, Georgia, the vice-chairman shall be authorized and empowered to sign any and all county warrants that may be issued by said board in payment of any legal obligation.
(1957 Ga. Laws (Act No. 204), page 2571, § 2)
Sec. 11. - Clerk and attorney of board; minutes, records, etc.; statement of disbursements and expenditures to be filed.
Be it further enacted by the authority aforesaid, That the board of commissioners may elect their own clerk and attorney with such pay as the board may allow, and it shall be the duty of said clerk to attend all meetings of the commissioners, and keep in a well-bound book to be provided at the expense of the county, full and accurate records of minutes of all their transactions, to file in order of their date all original orders and other papers, and to arrange and keep in order of their filing all petitions and applications and other papers addressed to said commissioners and to record all orders given or approved by said commissioners for the payment of money by the county treasurer, and all books, files and records by this Act required to be used or kept, shall always be open at the county site for the inspection of any tax payer of the county on demand.
It shall be the duty of said commissioners to prepare once each three months an itemized statement of all expenditures and disbursements made by them, which statement shall show the number of orders, of warrants drawn by them on the treasurer, the amount of each order or warrant and the person in whose favor same was drawn, and one copy kept of file in the office of said commissioners. Said commissioners shall also cause to be published at the county's expense in the official organ of said county an abstract of each of said itemized statements.
(1915 Ga. Laws (Act No. 52), page 153)
Sec. 11A. - Judge of Probate Court may serve as Clerk of Board of Commissioners.
Be it further enacted by the authority aforesaid that the Judge of the Probate Court of Ben Hill County, Georgia, shall be qualified to serve as Clerk of the Board of Commissioners of Ben Hill County, Georgia, notwithstanding the fact that he may hold the office of the Probate Court of said County; and the holding of one office shall not be a disqualification to the holding of the other. This does not mean, however, that the Judge of the Probate Court shall be the Clerk of said Board unless he is duly named to said office by an order of said Board duly entered upon the minutes thereof.
(1943 Ga. Laws (Act No. 263), page 835, § 2)
Editor's note— 1943 Ga. Laws (Act No. 263), page 835, § 2, added provisions to 1914 Ga. Laws (Act No. 502), page 232, without designating a section or subsection for same. The editor has designated such section as § 11A.
Sec. 11B. - Deputy clerk.
Be it further enacted by the authority aforesaid that said board of commissioners of Ben Hill County, Georgia, shall have the right at any special or regular meeting to appoint a deputy clerk of said board, whose duties shall be as may be defined and set forth by any regulation, rule or order by said board at any regular or special meeting, and that said deputy clerk shall serve at the pleasure of said board and shall be subject to removal from office at any time with or without cause, and a successor may be appointed immediately upon there being a vacancy in said office for any reason whatsoever; but nevertheless said board shall not be required to appoint a deputy clerk but shall be authorized so to do at any time in the discretion of the board a deputy clerk is needful and necessary; and in the event a deputy clerk is appointed such deputy clerk shall have authority to sign county warrants, provided such warrants are also signed by the chairman of the board of commissioners in and for Ben Hill County, Georgia, or the vice chairman thereof.
(1957 Ga. Laws (Act No. 204), page 2571, § 3)
Editor's note— 1957 Ga. Laws (Act No. 204), page 2571, § 3 added provisions to 1914 Ga. Laws (Act No. 502), page 232, without designating a section or subsection for same. The editor has designated such section as § 11B.
Sec. 12. - Oath and bond of clerk.
Be it further enacted by the authority aforesaid, that said board of commissioners shall require said clerk, before entering upon the discharge of his duties to take the same oath taken by them, and enter into bond with good security payable to said commissioners and their successors in office, conditioned to well and truly perform and do the duties of said office, such bond to be in the sum of $1,000.00, and to be approved by said board.
Sec. 12A. - Same; oath and bond [of deputy clerk].
Be it further enacted by the authority aforesaid that any such deputy clerk appointed by said board shall, before entering upon the duties of such office, subscribe and file with said board an affidavit that such deputy clerk shall faithfully perform the duties of deputy clerk of said board and comply with all lawful orders and regulations of said board and will subscribe to any other affidavit that may be required by law or public officials of the State of Georgia, and in addition to taking said oath said deputy clerk shall enter into a good and sufficient bond with surety thereon, which shall be an approved surety company authorized to do business in the State of Georgia, which bond shall be in the sum of one thousand dollars ($1,000.00) and payable to the board of commissioners of Ben Hill County, Georgia, conditioned that said deputy clerk shall faithfully perform all the duties required of such deputy clerk and obey all lawful orders and regulations of said board of commissioners of Ben Hill County, Georgia, and shall faithfully account for all money or property that said deputy clerk may receive belonging to the County of Ben Hill, State of Georgia. The premium on said bond shall be paid by the board.
(1957 Ga. Laws (Act No. 204), page 2571, § 4)
Editor's note— 1957 Ga. Laws (Act No. 204), page 2571, § 4, added provisions to 1914 Ga. Laws (Act No. 502), page 232, without designating a section or subsection for same. The editor has designated such section as § 12A.
Sec. 13. - Sheriff's duties and compensation.
Be it further enacted by the authority aforesaid, that it shall be the duty of the sheriff of said county to attend all meetings of said board, and to serve all processes, orders, writs, or notices issued by said board, for which services said sheriff shall receive such compensation as may be agreed upon by him and the board; provided, however, that if such board and the sheriff cannot agree as to the compensation he is to receive in said duties then the judge of the probate court of the county shall have the right to determine what is proper compensation for his services.
Sec. 14. - Pay of commissioners, how drawn; exemptions.
The chairperson of the board shall be paid a sum determined by the board; provided, however, that such sum shall not be less than $200.00 per month or more than $600.00 per month. Each commissioner other than the chairperson shall be paid a sum determined by the board; provided, however, that such sum shall not be less than $150.00 per month or more than $500.00 per month.
(1914 Ga. Laws (Act No. 502), page 232; 1953 Ga. Laws (Act No. 440), page 2677; 1972 Ga. Laws (Act No. 1361), page 3475; 1984 Ga. Laws (Act No. 671), page 3887; 1995 Ga. Laws (Act No. 120), page 3901)
Sec. 15. - Election and term of office.
Be it further enacted by the authority aforesaid, that on the third Wednesday in October 1914, and every two years thereafter there shall be elected three commissioners in and for said county, who shall hold office for a term of two years from and after the first day of January following such election and until their successors are elected and qualified.
Editor's note— Except for the date of the election, § 15 is superseded by § 1 of this act. The election date specified in this section is superseded by O.C.G.A § 21-2-9.
Sec. 16. - Vacancies.
Be it further enacted by the authority aforesaid, that all vacancies in said board of commissioners shall be filled by the judge of the probate court of said county. ; ;oh5 Sec. 17.\To be commissioned by Governor.
Be it further enacted by the authority aforesaid, that said commissioners shall be commissioned by the Governor as provided by law for county officers.
[Sec. 18. - Reserved.]
Editor's note— This section is reserved at the request of the county pending modification by the Georgia legislature.
ARTICLE II. - BOARD OF ELECTIONS AND REGISTRATION[2]

Footnotes:
--- (2) ---
Editor's note— Printed herein is 1994 Ga. Laws (Act No. 1131), page 4989, which created and established the county board of elections and registration. Amendments to the act are indicated by parenthetical history notes following amended provisions. The absence of a history note indicates that the provision remains unchanged from the original act. Obvious misspellings have been corrected without notation. For stylistic purposes, a uniform system of headings and catchlines has been used. Additions made for clarity are indicated by brackets.

Sec. 1. - Created.
Pursuant to the authorization contained in subsection (b) of Code Section 21-2-40 of the O.C.G.A. [O.C.G.A. § 21-2-40(b)], there is created a Ben Hill County Board of Elections and Registration and said board is empowered with the powers and duties of the election superintendent relating to the conduct of elections and with the powers and duties of the board of registrars relating to the registration of voters and absentee balloting procedures in and for Ben Hill County, Georgia.
Sec. 2. - Membership.
The Ben Hill County Board of Elections and Registration shall be comprised of five members, each of whom shall be an elector and a resident of Ben Hill County, and who shall be selected in the following manner:
(1)
One member shall be appointed by the chairperson of the county executive committee of the political party which receives the highest number of votes within the county for its candidate for Governor in the general election immediately preceding the appointment of the member, and one member shall be appointed by the political party which receives the second highest number of votes within the county for its candidate for Governor in the general election immediately preceding the appointment of the member. Each of such appointments shall have been ratified by a majority of the members of each of such respective executive committees voting at a meeting duly called and held for such purpose. In the event any appointment is not ratified by the vote of a majority of the members of such executive committee at least 60 days immediately preceding the date on which such members are to take office, then the members of the respective executive committees may elect such members by two-thirds majority of the membership at such executive committee at least 45 days immediately preceding the date on which such members are to take office; otherwise, such members shall be appointed in accordance with the provisions of Section 4 of this Act; and
(2)
Three members shall be appointed by the governing authority of Ben Hill County, Georgia, and one of said members shall be designated by said governing authority as supervisor of registration and elections and that person shall be the administrator and chairperson of the board and shall carry out all duties of voter registration and elections. Said person shall hold the position of administrator and chairperson for a period of two years. Thereafter, the administrator and chairperson of said board shall be appointed by the governing authority of Ben Hill County as one of the members of said board for a term of two years and nothing shall prevent said governing authority from appointing the same person.
Sec. 3. - Ineligibility of elective officers.
No person who holds elective public office shall be eligible to serve as a member of the board during the term of such elective office, and the position of any such member shall be deemed vacant upon such member's qualifying as a candidate for an elective public office. ; ;oh5 Sec. 4.\Affidavit required.
No person shall take office as a member of the board unless the respective appointing or electing authority files an affidavit with the clerk of the Superior Court of Ben Hill County no later than 30 days immediately preceding the date on which such member is to take office stating the name and residential address of the person appointed or elected and certifying that such member has been duly appointed or elected as provided in this Act. The clerk of the superior court shall record each such certification on the minutes of the superior court and shall certify the name of each appointed or elected member and the name of the supervisor of registration and elections to the Secretary of State and shall provide for the issuance of appropriate commissions to the members within the same time and in the same manner as provided by general law for registrars. In the event any appointing or electing authority fails to make a regular appointment or election within the time specified in this section or in Section 2 of this Act or fails to make an interim appointment or election to fill a vacancy in the board within 90 days after the creation of such vacancy, such regular member or the member to fill such vacancy shall be appointed forthwith by the governing authority of Ben Hill County.
Sec. 5. - Terms; successors.
The initial members appointed or elected to the board shall serve for a term of office beginning May 1, 1994, and expiring at the end of December 31, 1995, and until the selection and qualification of their respective successors. Thereafter, all appointees shall serve for a term of two years beginning on the first day of January immediately following the expiration of the respective member's term of office and until a successor is appointed or elected and qualified, except in the event of resignation or removal as provided in this Act.
Successors shall be appointed in the manner specified in Section 2 of this Act for the appointment or election of the member who is being succeeded. Members shall be eligible to succeed themselves and shall have the right to resign at any time by giving written notice of resignation to the respective appointing or electing authority and to the clerk of the Superior Court of Ben Hill County. Members shall also be subject to removal from the board at any time, for cause, after notice and hearing, by the appointing or electing authority but otherwise in the same manner provided by general law for the removal of registrars.
Sec. 6. - Compensation.
The compensation of the supervisor of registration and elections shall be fixed by the governing authority of Ben Hill County and the compensation of the remaining members of the board shall be likewise fixed and paid by the governing authority of Ben Hill County.
Sec. 7. - Filling of vacancies.
In the event a vacancy occurs in the office of any member other than the supervisor of registration and elections before the expiration of that member's term of office, whether by removal, death, resignation, or otherwise, the respective appointing or electing authority shall appoint or elect a successor to serve the remainder of the unexpired term and until a successor is regularly appointed or elected.
Sec. 8. - Date of taking office; oath.
The first members of the board shall take office on May 1, 1994. Provisions in paragraph (1) of Section 2 and in Section 4 of this Act specifying the time for performing certain duties before a member takes office are waived for the initial members of the board. Before entering upon a member's duties, each member shall take substantially the same oath as required by general law for registrars and shall have the same privileges from arrest.
Sec. 9. - Abolishment of previous board.
Upon the members of the board taking office, the present board of registrars of Ben Hill County shall be abolished and shall deliver to the chairperson of the board, upon his or her written request, the custody of all equipment, supplies, materials, books, papers, records, and facilities of every kind pertaining to such powers and duties. The election superintendent of Ben Hill County shall likewise be relieved of any responsibilities pertaining to the conduct of elections and shall deliver to the chairperson of the board, upon his or her written request, the custody of all equipment, supplies, materials, books, papers, records, and facilities of every kind pertaining to such powers and duties.
Sec. 10. - Powers and duties.
(a)
The Ben Hill County Board of Elections and Registration shall be empowered with all powers and duties relating to the conduct of elections as election superintendent pursuant to provisions of title 21 of the O.C.G.A. [O.C.G.A. title 21].
(b)
The Ben Hill County Board of Elections and Registration is empowered with all of the powers and duties relating to the registration of voters and absentee balloting procedures as board of registrars pursuant to the provisions of title 21 of the O.C.G.A. [O.C.G.A. title 21].
(c)
This Act is intended to implement the provisions of subsection (b) of Code Section 21-2-40 of the O.C.G.A. [O.C.G.A. § 21-2-40(b)] and shall be construed liberally so as to effectuate that purpose.
(d)
The board shall propose an annual budget to the county governing authority for approval or negotiation detailing the expenditures necessary for the execution of its duties.
Sec. 11. - Poll workers.
The board shall be responsible for the selection, appointment, and training of poll workers in primaries and elections, and such workers shall be appointed, insofar as practicable, from lists provided to the board by the county executive committee of each political party.
Sec. 12. - Chairperson.
The chairperson of the board of elections and registration shall be the chief executive officer and shall generally supervise, direct, and control the administration of the affairs of the board pursuant to law and duly adopted resolutions of the board. The board shall fix and establish, by appropriate resolution entered on its minutes, directives governing the execution of matters within its jurisdiction.
Sec. 13. - Offices, clerical assistants furnished by county.
The governing authority of Ben Hill County shall provide the board with such proper and suitable offices and with such clerical assistants and other employees as the governing authority shall deem appropriate.
Sec. 14. - Definitions.
As used in this Act, the words "election," "elector," "political party," "primary," "public office," "special election," and "special primary" shall have the same meaning ascribed to those words by Chapters 2 and 3 of title 21 of the O.C.G.A. [O.C.G.A. § 21-2-101 et seq.] unless otherwise clearly apparent.
ARTICLE III. - FITZGERALD BEN HILL COUNTY DEVELOPMENT AUTHORITY
DIVISION 1. - LOCAL CONSTITUTIONAL AMENDMENT[3]

Footnotes:
--- (3) ---
Editor's note— Printed in this division is an amendment to the 1945 Ga. Const. art. VII, § V, ¶ I, now Ga. Const. art. IX, § II, ¶ VIII, as set forth in § 1 of 1962 Ga. Laws (Act No. 202), page 1011. The amendment created and established the Fitzgerald and Ben Hill County Development Authority. The constitutional amendment was continued in force and effect by a Ben Hill County local ordinance, as set forth in 1985 Ga. Laws, page 5190; City of Fitzgerald Ord. No. 1079, § 1, 11-12-1984, as set forth in 1985 Ga. Laws, page 5326; and a legislative act, as set forth in 1987 Ga. Laws (Act No. 18), page 3529. Amendments to the act are indicated by parenthetical history notes following amended provisions. The absence of a history note indicates that the provision remains unchanged from the original act. Obvious misspellings have been corrected without notation. For stylistic purposes, a uniform system of headings and catchlines has been used. Additions made for clarity are indicated by brackets.
State Law reference— Development Authorities Law, O.C.G.A. § 36-62-1 et seq.; Georgia Development Authority Act, O.C.G.A. § 50-10-1 et seq.

Sec. 1. - Created; support; members; property; purpose.
Article VII, Section V, Paragraph I of the Constitution [now Ga. Const. art. IX, § II, ¶ VIII] relating to the taxing power and restriction of contributions of counties, cities and political divisions, is hereby amended by adding at the end thereof the following:
There is hereby created a body corporate and politic to be known as the "Fitzgerald and Ben Hill County Development Authority" which shall be deemed to be an instrumentality of the State of Georgia and a public corporation, its scope and jurisdiction to be limited to the territory embraced by the City of Fitzgerald and the County of Ben Hill. The city and county may contract with the Authority as a public corporation as provided by the Constitution of Georgia.
Neither the city nor the county is authorized to levy a tax for the purposes of the authority herein created.
The members of the Authority, their qualifications, terms and method of election or appointment, shall be prescribed by law by the General Assembly. The Authority shall have such duties, powers, and authority as shall be prescribed by law and the General Assembly may pass all other necessary legislation for the implementation of this amendment.
All lands and improvements thereon, the title to which is vested in the Authority, and all debentures and revenue bonds issued by the Authority, shall be exempt from State and local taxation.
Said Authority is created for the purpose of developing, promoting and expanding for the public good and general welfare, industry, agriculture, commerce, natural resources, and vocational training and for the making of long-range plans for the coordination of such development, promotion and expansion within its territorial limits. The Authority shall not be empowered or authorized in any manner to create a debt as against the State of Georgia or the City of Fitzgerald and the County of Ben Hill. The Authority is created for nonprofit purposes and all property acquired by the Authority and any funds realized by the Authority shall be used continually and exclusively for the purposes for which the Authority is created.
DIVISION 2. - AN ACT CREATING THE FITZGERALD AND BEN HILL COUNTY DEVELOPMENT AUTHORITY[4]

Footnotes:
--- (4) ---
Editor's note— Printed in this division is 1963 Ga. Laws (Act No. 9), page 2003. The legislative act created and established the Fitzgerald and Ben Hill County Development Authority. The legislative act was continued in force and effect by a Ben Hill County local ordinance, as set forth in 1985 Ga. Laws, page 5190; Fitzgerald Ordinance No. 1079, § 1, 11-12-1984, as set forth in 1985 Ga. Laws, page 5326; and a legislative act, as set forth in 1987 Ga. Laws (Act No. 18), page 3529. Amendments to the act are indicated by parenthetical history notes following amended provisions. The absence of a history note indicates that the provision remains unchanged from the original act. Obvious misspellings have been corrected without notation. For stylistic purposes, a uniform system of headings and catchlines has been used. Additions made for clarity are indicated by brackets.
State Law reference— Development Authorities Law, O.C.G.A. § 36-62-1 et seq.; Georgia Development Authority Act, O.C.G.A. § 50-10-1 et seq., and 1963 Ga. Laws (Act No. 9), page 2003.

Sec. 1. - Short title.
This Act may be cited as the Fitzgerald and Ben Hill County Development Authority.
Sec. 2. - Created.
There is hereby created a body corporate and politic to be known as the Fitzgerald and Ben Hill County Development Authority, which shall be deemed to be an instrumentality of the State of Georgia and a public corporation, and by that name, style, and title said body may contract and be contracted with, sue and be sued, plead and be impleaded, and complain and defend in all courts of law and equity. The Authority shall consist of five (5) members who shall be the Chairman of the Board of Commissioners of Ben Hill County, the Mayor of the City of Fitzgerald, the president of the Fitzgerald Chamber of Commerce and two (2) appointed members who shall be residents of Ben Hill County within or without the corporate limits of the City of Fitzgerald. Not more than one (1) member shall be appointed from any one family, partnership, or other business organization. Immediately after the effective date of this Act, the Board of Aldermen of the City of Fitzgerald and the Commissioners of Ben Hill County each shall appoint one (1) member to the Authority. For the first appointments, the county shall appoint one person for three (3) years, and the city shall appoint one (1) person for five (5) years. Thereafter all such terms and appointments, except in case of vacancy, shall be for five (5) years. In the event a vacancy occurs in the city appointment, the city shall fill such vacancy by appointment for the unexpired term. In the event a vacancy occurs in the county appointment, the county shall fill such vacancy by appointment for the unexpired term. The Authority shall elect a Chairman and a Treasurer. The members of the Authority shall be entitled to no compensation. The Authority shall appoint from time to time and remove at its sole discretion an Executive Secretary, to be selected by majority vote of the members of the Authority, who shall serve as secretary of the Authority and who shall have such other powers and duties and who shall be paid such compensation as the Authority shall determine from time to time in its sole discretion.
(1999 Ga. Laws (Act No. 190), page 4394)
Sec. 3. - Definitions.
As used in this Act, the following words and terms shall have the following meanings, unless a different meaning clearly appears from the context:
(a)
The word "Authority" shall mean the "Fitzgerald and Ben Hill County Development Authority" created by this Act and by and under Article VII, Section V, Paragraph I, of the Constitution of the State of Georgia [now Ga. Const. Art. IX, § II, ¶ VIII; see division 1 of this article], as amended.
(b)
The word "project" shall be deemed to mean and include the acquisition of lands, properties and improvements for development, expansion and promotion of jobs and payrolls in industry, commerce, agriculture, and natural resources; the construction of buildings and plants or the acquisition of equipment for the purpose of selling, leasing or renting such structures or equipment to private persons, firms or corporations.
(c)
The term "cost of project" shall embrace the cost of construction, the cost of all lands, properties, easements, rights and franchises acquired, the cost of machinery and equipment, financing charges, interest prior to and during construction and for one year after completion of construction, cost of engineering, architectural and legal expenses, and plans and specifications and other expenses necessary or incident to determining the feasibility or practicability of the project, administrative expenses, and other such expenses as may be necessary or incident to the financing herein authorized, the construction of any project and placing the same in operation; provided, however, that in no event shall entertainment or promotional expense be considered a part of the cost of any project. It is the intention here that funds the Authority may borrow and the interest paid thereon, for interim or temporary financing for any of the above-named items properly included in "cost of project" for the use of a designated project, pending the issue and validation of revenue-anticipation bonds for such project, shall be considered a "cost of project" which may be paid or repaid from the proceeds of the revenue-anticipation bonds authorized herein in section 6(1).
Sec. 4. - Contracts.
The County of Ben Hill and the City of Fitzgerald are expressly authorized to enter into contracts with the Authority as a public corporation.
Sec. 5. - Quorum.
Any three (3) members shall constitute a quorum for the transaction of the ordinary business of the Authority; however, any action with respect to any project of the Authority must be approved by not less than three (3) affirmative votes. No vacancy shall impair the power of the Authority to act.
Sec. 6. - Powers.
The Authority shall have powers:
(a)
To have a seal and alter the same at pleasure.
(b)
To acquire, hold, and dispose of personal property, including the stock of other corporations, for its corporate purposes.
(c)
To enter into contracts for periods of time not in excess of fifty (50) years.
(d)
To acquire in its own name by purchase, on such terms and conditions, and in such manner as it may deem proper, real property or liens or easements therein or franchises necessary or convenient for its corporate purposes, and to use the same, and to lease as lessee or lessor or make contracts with respect to the use of same or to dispose of same in any manner the Authority deems to its best advantage. If the Authority shall deem it expedient to construct any project or use any project already constructed on lands, the title to which shall then be in the County of Ben Hill or the City of Fitzgerald; the governing authorities of Ben Hill County or the City of Fitzgerald are authorized in their discretion to convey title to such lands, including any improvements thereon, to the Authority.
(e)
To appoint and select officers, agents, and employees, including engineers, architects, builders, and attorneys, and to fix their compensation.
(f)
To make contracts, and to execute all instruments necessary or convenient, including contracts for construction of projects and leases and rental and sale of projects, or contracts with respect to the use of projects, which it erects or acquires.
(g)
To construct, erect, acquire, own, repair, remodel, maintain, extend, improve, sell, equip, expand, add to, operate and manage projects and pay the cost of any such project from the proceeds of revenue-anticipation bonds or any other income of the Authority, or from any contribution or loans by persons, firms, or corporations, all of which the Authority is hereby authorized to receive and accept and use.
(h)
To borrow money for any of its corporate purposes and to execute notes, mortgages, deeds to secure debt, trust deeds and such other instruments as may be necessary or convenient to evidence and secure such borrowing; it being the intention here that, in addition to the pledge of revenue from any project for the payment of revenue anticipation bonds and for the benefit of the bondholders, the Authority is authorized to execute mortgages, deeds to secure debts, trust deeds and indentures and such other instruments as may be necessary or convenient covering the property of any particular project as additional security for the bondholders of such project.
(i)
To exercise any power granted by the laws of the State of Georgia to public or private corporations, performing similar functions, which is not in conflict with the Constitution and laws of the State of Georgia.
(j)
To do all things necessary or convenient to carry out the powers expressly conferred by this Act.
(k)
To adopt, alter or repeal its own by-laws, rules and regulations governing the manner in which its business may be transacted and in which the power granted to it may be enjoyed, as the Authority may deem necessary or expedient in facilitating its business.
(l)
To issue revenue-anticipation bonds for the purpose of paying all or any part of the cost of any project of the Authority. Such revenue-anticipation bonds shall be issued and validated in the Superior Court of Ben Hill County, Georgia, under and in accordance with the applicable provisions of the "Revenue Bond Law" (Ga. Laws 1937, pp. 761-774) [O.C.G.A. § 36-80-60 et seq.], as now or hereafter amended, providing for the issuance of revenue bonds; except, however, the interest rate on or rates to be borne by any bonds, notes, or other obligations of the Authority shall be fixed by the members of the Authority and any limitations with respect to interest rates found in said "Revenue Bond Law" shall not apply to obligations issued by said Authority.
(1981 Ga. Laws (Act No. 344), page 3957)
Sec. 7. - Powers.
The Authority is hereby specifically authorized to purchase or otherwise acquire land and to improve and develop same so as to make said land more desirable for industrial purposes. Such land acquisition and development may be undertaken by the Authority at any time whether or not there is at such time a prospective industry considering the purchase or lease of an industrial site in Ben Hill County. Such land and improvements may be held by the Authority for any length of time it deems desirable, but any sale, lease or other disposition of same when made, shall be subject to the provisions of section 9 hereof.
Sec. 8. - Use of gifts.
No moneys derived from the Authority from any source other than gifts and contributions from private individuals, firms or corporations shall at any time be used for entertainment, or other promotional expenses.
Sec. 9. - Projects.
All projects of the Authority shall be on a self-liquidating basis, and the Authority shall not make gifts, directly or indirectly to any person, firm or corporation.
Sec. 10. - Ben Hill County.
Should said Authority for any reason be dissolved, title to all property of every kind and nature, real and personal, held by the Authority at the time of such dissolution shall revert to Ben Hill County subject to any mortgages, liens, leases or other encumbrances outstanding against or in respect to said property at that time.
Sec. 11. - Taxes.
All lands and improvements and personal property the title to which is vested in the Authority, and all debentures, notes, bonds, and revenue-anticipation bonds issued by the Authority, and all interest thereon, shall have the same immunity from State and local taxation as the property, obligations and interest on the obligations of Ben Hill County.
Sec. 12. - Debts.
The Authority shall not be empowered or authorized in any manner to create a debt as against the State of Georgia, the County of Ben Hill or the City of Fitzgerald.
Sec. 13. - Audits.
The books and records of the Authority shall be audited at least annually, at the expense of the Authority, by a competent auditor. The Authority shall furnish copies of said audit to the County of Ben Hill and the City of Fitzgerald, and shall publish same one time in the newspaper serving as the Official Organ of Ben Hill County.
Sec. 14. - Contracts.
The Authority shall be specifically authorized to enter into contracts and agreements for periods of time extending beyond the terms of the members of the Authority in office at the time of such contracts and agreements.
Sec. 15. - Intent.
This Act being written for the purpose of developing and promoting the public good and the welfare of the County of Ben Hill and the City of Fitzgerald and their inhabitants, shall be liberally construed to effect the purposes hereof.
Sec. 16. - Severability.
The provisions of this Act are severable, and if any of its provisions shall be held unconstitutional by any court of competent jurisdiction, the decision of such court shall not affect or impair any of the remaining provisions.
Sec. 17. - Effective date.
The provisions of this Act shall become effective immediately after the enactment thereof by the members of the two branches of the General Assembly.
Sec. 18. - Repealer.
All laws or parts of laws in conflict with the provisions of this Act are hereby repealed.
ARTICLE IV. - JOINT FITZGERALD/BEN HILL COUNTY AIRPORT COMMISSION[5]

Footnotes:
--- (5) ---
Editor's note— Printed herein is 1945 Ga. Laws (Act No. 203), page 879, which created and established the joint airport commission of the county and city. Amendments to the act are indicated by parenthetical history notes following amended provisions. The absence of a history note indicates that the provision remains unchanged from the original act. Obvious misspellings have been corrected without notation. For stylistic purposes, a uniform system of headings and catchlines has been used. Additions made for clarity are indicated by brackets.
State Law reference— Powers of Local Governments as to Air Facilities, O.C.G.A. § 6-3-1 et seq.

Sec. 1. - Commission established.
Be it enacted by the General Assembly of the State of Georgia, and it is hereby enacted by authority of the same, that there be, and is hereby, created, set up and established a joint airport commission for the City of Fitzgerald and the County of Ben Hill to be known as the "Fitzgerald Airport Commission" for the purposes and with the powers, duties and authority hereinafter set out.
Sec. 2. - Members; ex officio members.
Be it further enacted by the authority aforesaid that said Commission shall be composed of three members, two of whom shall be aldermen of the City of Fitzgerald to be designated and appointed by the Mayor and Council of the City of Fitzgerald, and one of whom shall be a member of the Board of Commissioners of the County of Ben Hill to be designated and appointed by that body, such members so appointed by the Mayor and Council and the Board of Commissioners to serve for the calendar year in which appointed or until their successors are named and appointed. The Mayor of the City of Fitzgerald and the Chairman of the Board of Commissioners of Ben Hill shall, by virtue of their offices and during their tenure in office as such, be ex officio members of said Commission and shall serve in an advisory capacity without voting power.
Sec. 3. - Authority of Commission; fees and tolls.
Be it further enacted by the authority aforesaid that said Commission shall have the management, supervision and control of any airports or landing fields owned jointly by the City of Fitzgerald and the County of Ben Hill and shall direct and control the construction, equipment, improvement, maintenance and operation thereof, including the adoption and enforcement of rules and regulations and the fixing and establishing of charges, fees and tolls for the use of such airports or landing fields.
Sec. 4. - Contract for construction; liability of City and County.
Be it further enacted by the authority aforesaid that said Commission, by and with the consent and approval of the Mayor and Council of the City of Fitzgerald and the Board of Commissioners of the County of Ben Hill, is authorized and empowered to make and enter into contracts for the construction, development, equipment, improvement, maintenance and operation of any such airports or landing fields, provided, however, that no contract obligating the City of Fitzgerald or the County of Ben Hill for the payment of any monies shall be entered into by said Commission without having been first authorized by resolution duly passed by the Mayor and Council of the City of Fitzgerald and the Board of Commissioners of the County of Ben Hill and provided further that any contract obligating the expenditure of funds shall be a liability of the City of Fitzgerald to the extent of sixty per cent and of the County of Ben Hill to the extent of forty per cent of the total amount provided in said contract, and neither said City nor County shall be liable for the payment of more than its respective portion thereof. Said Commission shall have no authority to bind either the City of Fitzgerald or the County of Ben Hill for the payment of any sum of money unless and until the same shall have been authorized by the proper governing authorities of said City or County.
Sec. 5. - Lease of airports; approval of governing authorities.
Be it further enacted by the authority aforesaid that said Commission shall have the right to lease or assign to private persons, firms, corporations, Governmental agencies or political subdivisions all or any portion of the space, area and improvements of and equipment on such airports or landing fields, provided that such lease be submitted to the governing authorities of said City and County and their approval obtained before its execution, and provided that the public is protected in its rightful, equal and uniform use of such airports or landing fields. Said Commission shall have no right to sell such airports or landing fields or any portion thereof, the right so to do being expressly reserved to the governing authorities of said City and County. ; ;oh5 Sec. 6.\Expenses paid from tolls; excess of funds.
Be it further enacted by the authority aforesaid that all fees, charges, tolls, rentals or other revenues derived from the operation or lease of such airports or landing fields shall be used by said Commission to meet in whole or in part the expenses of operation and maintenance of such airports or landing fields. In the event the revenue from the operation or lease of such airports or landing fields exceeds the expenses of operation and maintenance, such excess may, by and with the consent and approval of the governing authorities of said City and County, be used for further development, improvement or equipment of such airports or landing fields and if not so used shall be paid to said City and County in proportion to their respective interests therein.
Sec. 7. - Control and expenditure of funds.
Be it further enacted by the authority aforesaid that said Commission shall have the control and expenditure of funds appropriated by said City and County for the construction, development, maintenance, improvement and operation of such airports or landing fields provided, however, that no funds appropriated by either the City or the County shall be expended until both the City and County shall have appropriated and deposited with said Commission its pro rata portion of the total appropriation.
Sec. 8. - Books and accounts kept; Clerk.
Be it further enacted by the authority aforesaid that said Commission shall keep separate books and accounts showing receipts from all sources and expenditures for all purposes and shall deposit all funds received by it, including appropriations made by said City and County and revenues from the operation or lease of such airports or landing fields, in a bank named as depository for either said City or said County. The Clerk of the City of Fitzgerald shall, by virtue of his office, be and serve as Clerk of said Commission.
Sec. 9. - Invalid parts.
Be it further enacted by the authority aforesaid that, if any section or portion of this Act be declared unconstitutional, the remaining sections or portions hereof shall not be affected thereby.
Sec. 10. - Repealer.
Be it further enacted by the authority aforesaid, that all laws or parts of laws in conflict with this Act be, and the same are hereby repealed.
ARTICLE V. - OFFICE OF THE TAX COMMISSIONER ESTABLISHED[6]

Footnotes:
--- (6) ---
Editor's note— Printed herein is 1980 Ga. Laws (Act No. 1194), page 3954, which created and established the office of the tax commissioner. Amendments to the act are indicated by parenthetical history notes following amended provisions. The absence of a history note indicates that the provision remains unchanged from the original act. Obvious misspellings have been corrected without notation. For stylistic purposes, a uniform system of headings and catchlines has been used. Additions made for clarity are indicated by brackets.

Sec. 1. - Created.
The offices of tax receiver and tax collector of Ben Hill County are hereby consolidated and combined into the one office of the tax commissioner of Ben Hill County. The rights, duties, and liabilities of the tax commissioner, except as otherwise provided herein, shall be the same as those imposed upon tax receivers and tax collectors by the laws of this state.
Sec. 2. - Elections.
The first election for the office of tax commissioner created herein shall be held at the same time as the election of other county officers for Ben Hill County in 1980. The person so elected shall take office on the first day of January following his election, and he shall serve until December 31, 1984, and until his successor is duly elected and qualified. All future elections for tax commissioner shall be held at the same time as elections for other county officers, and all future tax commissioners shall take office on the first day of January following their election and shall serve a term of office of four years and until their successors are duly elected and qualified. Nothing herein shall affect the term of office of the present tax collector and tax receiver of Ben Hill County, and their terms of office shall continue through December 31, 1980. Should any vacancy occur in the office of tax commissioner, such vacancy shall be filled in accordance with the provisions of law for filling vacancies in the office of tax collector.
Sec. 3. - Compensation.
(a)
The tax commissioner of Ben Hill County shall be compensated by an annual salary in the amount prescribed by the general law of this state fixing minimum salaries for tax commissioners who are paid on a salary basis. This salary shall be paid in equal monthly installments from county funds. This salary shall be the sole compensation of the tax commissioner, and all other moneys collected by the tax commissioner shall be public funds.
(b)
All expenses incurred by the tax commissioner in operating and discharging the official duties of his office including the compensation of additional personnel and including office equipment, supplies, fixtures, and utility expenses shall be paid by Ben Hill County from county funds. The hiring of such additional personnel and their compensation shall be within the sole discretion of the governing authority of Ben Hill County.
(1983 Ga. Laws (Act No. 74), page 3768)
Sec. 4. - Disposition of funds.
All fees, commissions, costs, fines, emoluments, and perquisites of whatever kind received and collected by the tax commissioner shall be received, collected, and held by him as public funds belonging to Ben Hill County. Once each month the tax commissioner shall turn over to the fiscal authority of said county all funds collected by him with a detailed itemized statement showing the sources from which such funds were collected.
(1983 Ga. Laws (Act No. 74), page 3768)
Sec. 5. - Payment due.
All taxes due and payable to Ben Hill County at the time the tax commissioner takes office shall continue to be due and payable until paid. All tax fi. fas. heretofore issued shall have full force and effect and shall be collectible as issued.
ARTICLE VI. - COUNTY DEPOSITORY[7]

Footnotes:
--- (7) ---
Editor's note— Printed herein is 1969 Ga. Laws (Act No. 286), page 2720, which created and established the office of the county depository. Amendments to the act are indicated by parenthetical history notes following amended provisions. The absence of a history note indicates that the provision remains unchanged from the original act. Obvious misspellings have been corrected without notation. For stylistic purposes, a uniform system of headings and catchlines has been used. Additions made for clarity are indicated by brackets.
State Law reference— Deposits of county funds in designated depositories O.C.G.A. § 36-6-16; depositories for county and school district moneys, O.C.G.A. § 45-8-14.

Sec. 1. - First named.
That from and after January 1, 1970, there is hereby created a county depository in and for Ben Hill County for the purpose of receiving and disbursing of county funds as heretofore received and disbursed by the county depository, the National Bank of Fitzgerald, all of the funds received by the said county to be deposited in said depository.
Sec. 2. - Others.
Be it further enacted by the authority aforesaid, that the commissioners of Ben Hill County at its first meeting in January, 1970, and in each January thereafter, shall designate as county depository for Ben Hill County any bank or banks, one or more, having its or their office and principal place of business in Ben Hill County as the depository of county funds, and wherever used in this Act, depository shall include the plural as well as the singular.
Sec. 3. - Indemnity.
Be it further enacted by the authority aforesaid, that the bank or banks so named, before entering upon its duties as said depository, shall deliver to the commissioners of Ben Hill County good and sufficient indemnity to the county, said indemnity to be in such form as required by said commissioners, for the faithful performance of all duties devolving upon said depository under this Act.
Sec. 4. - Warrants.
Be it further enacted by the authority aforesaid, that the commissioners of Ben Hill County shall have printed and ready for use, as soon after the passage of this Act as practicable, new county warrants in the following form:
And all warrants issued after the effective date of this Act must be issued according to the above form, and must be signed by the chairman of the county commissioners and the clerk of said board before they are authorized to be paid by the county depository.
Sec. 5. - Duties.
Be it further enacted by the authority aforesaid, that the county depository as described and created in sections 1 and 2 of this Act be and is hereby authorized to receive and disburse all county funds as heretofore received and disbursed by its county depository. Said depository is further authorized to pay out of any funds on hand in the name of the county upon presentation of the county warrant properly issued and signed upon the regular form as set out in section 4 of this Act. Said depository shall pay out all county funds only upon a regular county warrant, except in such cases where the judge of the superior court of the county has jurisdiction and issues an order upon the county depository, and in that event said depository must secure a county warrant for its record.
Sec. 6. - Payments.
Be it further enacted by the authority aforesaid, that it shall be unlawful for the depository so named to discount any county warrants drawn upon it. There shall be nothing herein construed to deprive said bank as a corporation from receiving county warrants as collateral against loans made by said bank as a corporation.
Sec. 7. - Term.
Be it further enacted by the authority aforesaid, that the term of office of the depository so named shall be until its successor is named and duly qualified, unless said depository should fail or cease to exist. Then and in that event, the commissioners of Ben Hill County shall immediately choose another depository, who shall perform the duties of said office as set forth above.
Sec. 8. - Compensation.
Be it further enacted by the authority aforesaid, that the depository as designated in sections 1 and 2 of this Act shall receive no compensation for acting as such; but said commissioners shall, if possible, get such depository to pay said county interest on any balance they may have with said depository, for the privilege of acting as such depository.
Sec. 9. - Laws repealed.
Be it further enacted by the authority aforesaid, that all laws or parts of laws in conflict with this Act be and the same are hereby repealed on the day that the county depository named under this Act shall qualify for the faithful performance of its duties hereunder.
