DIVISION 2. - DEFINITIONS

Sec. 82-44. - Abbreviations.
The following abbreviations, when used in this article, shall have the following designated meanings:
EXPAND
Al 2 (SO 4 ) 3 Aluminum Sulfate
NH 3 Ammonia (as N)
BMR Baseline Monitoring Report
BAT Best Available Technology
BMP Best Management Practices
BPT Best Practicable Technology
BOD 5 Biochemical Oxygen Demand (five day)
CIU Categorical Industrial User
COD Chemical Oxygen Demand
Cl 2 Chlorine
CFR Code of Federal Regulation
CBI Compliance Biomonitoring Inspection
CSI Compliance Sampling Inspection
CERCLA Comprehensive Environmental Response, Compensation, and Liabilities Act of 1980
DNR Department of Natural Resources of the State of Georgia
DMR Discharge Monitoring Report
D.O. Dissolved Oxygen
EPCRA Emergency Planning and Community Right-To-Know Act of 1986
ERP Enforcement Response Plan
EPD Environmental Protection Division of the Department of Natural Resources of the State of Georgia
FOG Fats, Oils, and Grease (and Wax)
FeCl 3 Ferric Chloride
Fe 2 (SO 4 ) 3 Ferric Sulfate
F/M Ratio Food to Microorganism Ratio for the County's WPCP
gpd gallons per day
gpm gallons per minute
GA129 Georgia 129 Priority Pollutants
GAIWQS Georgia In-stream Water Quality Standards
H.M.# Hach Method number for certain laboratory procedures (see Hach Water Analysis Handbook)
H 2 S Hydrogen Sulfide
IWDP Individual Wastewater Discharge Permit
IU Industrial User
O&M Manual Operations and Maintenance Manual
μg/L micrograms per liter (same as parts per billion)
mg/L milligrams per liter (same as parts per million)
MGD Million Gallons per Day
MPN Most Probable Number of coliform group organisms
NPDES National Pollutant Discharge Elimination System
NSPS New Source Performance Standards
NO 3 Nitrate
NSCIU Non-Significant Categorical Industrial User
OMR Operations Monitoring Report
ppb parts per billion (same as μg/L)
ppm parts per million (same as mg/L)
PO 4 Phosphorous (as P)
PSES Pretreatment Standards for Existing Sources
PSNS Pretreatment Standards for New Sources
POTW Public Owned Treatment Works
RCRA Resource Conservation and Recovery Act
SDS Safety Data Sheet
SIU Significant Industrial User
SNC Significant Non-Compliance
SIC Standard Industrial Classification
S.M.# Standard Methods number for certain laboratory procedures (see Standard Methods for the Examination of Water and Wastewater)
SARA Superfund Amendment Reauthorization Act
SCADA Supervisory Control and Data Acquisition system
TKN Total Kjeldahl Nitrogen
TSS Total Suspended Solids
TTO Total Toxic Organics
TOMP Toxic Organic Management Plan
TSCA Toxic Substance Control Act
U.S.C. United States Code
EPA United States Environmental Protection Agency
WWTP Wastewater Treatment Plant (Water Pollution Control Plant), (Advanced Water Reclamation Facility)
WPCP Water Pollution Control Plant (Wastewater Treatment Plant), (Advanced Water Reclamation Facility)
WRF Water Reclamation Facility
  (Ord. No. 114-B, § 1(Exh. A), 12-5-2019)
Sec. 82-45. - Definitions.
The following words, terms and phrases, when used in this article, and regardless of whether the same are capitalized, shall have the meanings ascribed to them in this section, except where the context clearly indicates a different meaning:
Act or the Act shall mean the Federal Water Pollution Control Act, also known as the Clean Water Act, as amended, 33 U.S.C. § 1251 et seq.
Aluminum sulfate (Alum) an aluminum salt that is used as a coagulant in water treatment. Also used to remove phosphorous in wastewater treatment. Al 2 (SO 4 ) 3 ·14H 2 O
Ammonia (NH3) shall mean a colorless gaseous alkaline compound of nitrogen and hydrogen that is very soluble in water.
Authorized representative of the user or authorized representative shall mean:
(1)
If the user is a corporation:
a.
The president, secretary, treasurer, or a vice-president of the corporation in charge of a principle business function, or any other person who performs similar policy or decision-making functions for the corporation; or
b.
The manager of one or more manufacturing, production, or operation facilities, provided the manager is authorized to make management decisions that govern the operation of the regulated facility including having the explicit or implicit duty of making major capital investment recommendations, and initiate and direct other comprehensive measures to assure long-term environmental compliance with environmental laws and regulations; can ensure that the necessary systems are established or actions taken to gather complete and accurate information for individual wastewater discharge permit or general permit requirements; and where authority to sign documents has been assigned or delegated to the manager in accordance with corporate procedures.
(2)
If the user is a partnership or sole proprietorship: A general partner or proprietor, respectively.
(3)
If the user is a federal, state, or local government facility: A director or highest official appointed or designated to oversee the operation and performance of the activities of the government facility, or their designee.
(4)
The individuals described in subsections (1) through (3) above, may designate another authorized representative if the authorization is in writing, the authorization specifies the individual or position responsible for the overall operation of the facility from which the discharge originates or having overall responsibility for environmental matters for the company, and the written authorization is submitted to the county.
Best Management Practices (BMPs) means schedules of activities, prohibitions of practices, maintenance procedures, and other management practices to implement the prohibitions listed in 40 CFR 403.5(a)(1) and (b). BMPs also include treatment requirements, operating procedures, and practices to control plant site runoff, spillage or leaks, sludge or waste disposal, or drainage from raw materials storage [40 CFR 403.3(e)].
BOD5(biochemical oxygen demand) means the quantity of oxygen utilized in the biochemical oxidation of organic matter under standard laboratory procedures in five days at 20 degrees Celsius, expressed in milligrams per liter.
Building drain shall mean the part of the lowest horizontal piping of a drainage system which receives the discharge from soil, waste, and other drainage pipes inside the walls of the building and conveys it to the building sewer, beginning five feet outside the inner face of the building wall.
Building sewer shall mean the extension from the building drain to the public sewer or other place of disposal.
Bypass shall mean the intentional diversion of waste streams from any portion of a user's treatment facility.
Categorical industrial user (CIU) shall mean an industrial user subject to categorical pretreatment standards or categorical standards.
Categorical pretreatment standard or categorical standard shall mean any regulation containing pollution discharge limits promulgated by EPA in accordance with Sections 307 (b) and (c) of the Act (33 U.S.C. § 1317) which apply to a specific category of users and which appear in 40 CFR Chapter I, Subchapter N, Parts 405—471.
Chlorine means a chemical used to disinfect water and wastewater. Cl 2 in gaseous form, chlorine dioxide, sodium hypochlorite (bleach), or calcium hypochlorite (HTH).
COD (chemical oxygen demand) shall mean a measure of the oxygen consuming capacity of inorganic and organic matter present in water and wastewater. It is expressed as the amount of oxygen in milligrams per liter by weight consumed from a chemical oxidant in a specific test.
Code of Federal Regulations (CFRs) shall mean those environmental regulations compiled by the federal government and found in 40 CFR.
Control authority shall mean a POTW with an approved pretreatment program or the approval authority in the absence of an approved POTW pretreatment program [40 CFR 403.3(f)].
Conventional pollutants shall mean pollutants typical of municipal sewage that cause discharged water to exceed the normal domestic concentrations for the following criteria: Chloride, ammonia nitrogen, BOD 5 , COD, phosphorus, TKN, TSS, pH and fats, oils and grease. Normal concentrations are set forth in section 82-58(9) of this article.
County shall mean the governmental body having jurisdiction over the maintenance and operations of the water and sanitary sewer system within areas of Forsyth County, Georgia.
County director shall mean the Director of Water and Sewer of Forsyth County, Georgia, or his duly authorized representative.
Combined sewer shall mean a sewer receiving both surface runoff and sewage.
Composite sample shall mean the accumulation of a number of individual samples over a period of time, during the hours of operation, so taken as to represent the nature of the wastewater.
Daily discharge shall mean the arithmetic average of all effluent samples for a pollutant collected during a calendar day or 24-hour period, except pH.
Daily maximum shall mean the maximum value (temperature, concentration, mass, gallons or standard units) of all effluent samples collected during a calendar day or 24-hour period.
Daily maximum limit shall mean the maximum allowable discharge limit of a pollutant during a calendar day or 24-hour period. Where daily maximum limits are expressed in units of mass, the daily discharge is the total mass discharged over the course of the day. Where daily maximum limits are expressed in terms of a concentration, the daily discharge is the arithmetic average measurement of the pollutant concentration derived from all measurements taken that day, except pH.
Daily minimum shall mean the minimum value (standard units) of all effluent samples collected during a calendar day or 24-hour period.
Department of natural resources (DNR) shall mean the department of state government that is responsible for environmental protection and executes this responsibility through the environmental protection division (EPD).
Director shall mean the Director of Water and Sewer Department of Forsyth County, Georgia, or any person authorized by the director.
Dissolved oxygen (D.O.) is the molecular (atmospheric) oxygen dissolved in water or wastewater.
Easement shall mean an acquired legal right for the specific use of land owned by others.
Environmental Protection Agency (USEPA) shall mean the federal agency responsible for protecting the environment of the United States of America or, where appropriate, the regional water management division director, the regional administrator, or other duly authorized official of said agency.
Environmental Protection Division (Georgia EPD) shall mean the division of the Department of Natural Resources of the State of Georgia that is responsible for the protection of the State of Georgia's environment or, where appropriate, a duly authorized official of said agency.
Existing source shall mean any source of discharge that is not a "new source".
Fats, oils and grease (FOG) shall mean fats, oils, grease, or wax, whether emulsified or not and substances which may solidify or become viscous at temperatures between 32 and 150 degrees F (0—65 degrees C).
Ferric chloride means an iron salt that is used as a coagulant in water and wastewater treatment. Fe(Cl) 3
Ferric sulfate means an iron salt that is used as a coagulant in water and wastewater treatment. Fe 2 (SO 4 ) 3
Floatable oil is oil, fat, or grease in a physical state such that it will separate from wastewater by treatment in an American Petroleum Institute (API) type of oil/water gravity separator. Wastewater shall be considered free of floatable oil if it is properly pretreated and the wastewater does not interfere with the collection system.
Flush toilet means the common sanitary flush commode in general use for the disposal of human excrement.
Food service establishment shall mean any restaurant, eatery, food caterer, cafeteria, or other institution processing and serving food such as motels, hotels, prisons, or schools.
Food to microorganism ratio shall mean a measure of food provided to bacteria in an aeration tank. F/M = [(Biochemical Oxygen Demand in lbs./day) ÷ (Mixed Liquor Volatile Suspended Solids in lbs.)]
Garbage shall mean the animal and vegetable waste resulting from the handling, preparation, cooking, serving, and sale of food or produce.
General permit shall mean the permits issued by the director pursuant to divisions 6 and 7 of this article to cover categories of facilities having common elements and where individual wastewater discharge permits are not necessary. These include categories of facilities with substantially similar types of operations such as but not limited to, food service establishments, schools, septage haulers, prisons, nursing homes and funeral homes.
Georgia 129 Priority Pollutants (GA129) or priority pollutant shall mean the list of 129 pollutants made up of volatiles, acids, base/neutrals, pesticides, metals, and others that are of concern to the State of Georgia in regard to the environment. https://www3.epa.gov/region1/npdes/permits/generic/prioritypollutants.pdf
Georgia In-stream Water Quality Standards (GAIWQS) shall mean a listing of pollutants that may be present in waterways for which the State of Georgia has set concentration limitations.
Grab sample shall mean a sample which is taken from a waste stream without regard to the flow in the waste stream and over a period of time not to exceed 15 minutes.
Grease and oil shall mean the group of substances with similar physical characteristics, which include fatty acids, soaps, fats, oils and any other material that can be solvent extracted and is not volatized during evaporation of the solvent.
Grease trap or grease interceptor shall mean a device used for removal of oils, greases, and food solids from a process waste stream.
Hach Water Analysis Handbook shall mean a water and wastewater laboratory analysis handbook that is published by the Hach Company, Loveland Colorado. Many of the specialized Hach analytical methods for the examination of water and Wastewater are approved by the EPA. Hach methods are designated by a Hach Method Number (H.M.#).
Health officer shall mean the director of the county board of health or other person designated by the board of commissioners and their duly appointed assistants.
Hydrogen Sulfide H2S means a corrosive, explosive, flammable and colorless gas that is formed in anaerobic or septic wastewater and that occurs to some degree in all sewer systems. This gas is recognized by its "rotten egg" odor and is poisonous to the human respiratory system.
Indirect discharge shall mean the introduction of pollutants from any non-domestic source into a POTW regulated under Section 307(b), (c) or (d) of the Clean Water Act.
Individual wastewater discharge permit shall mean the permit issued by the director pursuant to divisions 6 and 7 of this article, pertaining to industrial users (IU) such as but not limited to, categorical industrial users (CIU), non-significant categorical industrial users (NSCIU) and significant industrial users (SIU).
Industrial user or user shall mean any non-domestic source of pollutants into a POTW regulated under Section 307(b), (c) or (d) of the Clean Water Act.
Industrial wastewater shall mean wastewater in which the solid, liquid, and gaseous wastes from process of industry, manufacture, trade, or business, or from the development or recovery of any natural resource (as distinct from domestic or sanitary wastes) is found.
Infiltration or inflow shall mean groundwater and surface water which leaks into the sewers through cracked pipes, joints, manholes, or other openings.
Instantaneous maximum allowable discharge limit (or "instantaneous limit") shall mean the maximum pollutant concentration allowed to be discharged at any time, determined from the analysis of any grab or composite sample collected, independent of the industrial flow rate and the duration of the sampling event.
Interference shall mean a discharge, which alone or in conjunction with a discharge or discharges from other sources, inhibits or disrupts the POTW, its treatment processes, operations, or its sludge processes, use, or disposal; and therefore, is a cause of a violation of the county's NPDES permit or of the prevention of sewage sludge disposal in compliance with any of the following statutory or regulatory provisions or permits issued thereunder, or any more stringent state or local regulations; Section 405 of the Act; the Solid Waste Disposal Act, including Title II commonly referred to as the Resource Conservation and Recovery Act, (RCRA); any state regulations contained in any state sludge management plan prepared pursuant to Subtitle D of the Solid Waste Disposal Act; the Clean Air Act; the Toxic Substances Control Act; and the Marine Protection, Research and Sanctuaries Act.
Local limits shall mean the limits set by Forsyth County on discharges to the POTW as set forth in this article.
Mass emissions rate shall mean the weight of material discharged to the POTW during a given time interval. Unless otherwise specified, the mass emissions rate shall mean pounds per day of the particular constituent or combination of constituents.
May is permissive (see "shall").
Medical waste shall mean isolation wastes, infectious agents, human blood and blood products, pathological wastes, sharps, body parts, contaminated bedding, surgical wastes, potentially contaminated laboratory wastes, cultures and dialysis wastes.
Micrograms per liter (μg/L) shall mean a measurement of concentration (same as parts per billion).
Milligrams per Liter (mg/L) shall mean a measurement of concentration (same as parts per million - ppm).
Million gallons per day (MGD) shall mean the quantity of gallons of water used or wastewater treated divided by 1,000,000 (e.g. 75,000 gallons per day/1,000,000 = 0.075 MGD).
Monthly average shall mean the sum of all "daily discharges" measured during a calendar month divided by the number of "daily discharges" measured during that month.
Monthly average limit shall mean the highest allowable average of "daily discharges" over a calendar month, calculated as the sum of all "daily discharges" measured during a calendar month divided by the number of "daily discharges" measured during that month.
National Categorical Pretreatment Standards shall mean any National Pretreatment Standard specifying quantities or concentrations of pollutants or pollutant properties which may be discharged to a water pollution control facility by existing or new industrial users in specific industrial subcategories.
National Pretreatment Standard shall mean any regulation containing pollutant discharge limits promulgated by the USEPA in accordance with Section 307(b) and (c) of the Act, which applies to industrial users. This term includes prohibitive discharge limits established pursuant to 40 CFR § 403.5.
Natural outlet shall mean any outlet including storm sewers and combined sewer overflows, into a watercourse, pond, ditch, lake, or other body of surface water or groundwater.
New source means:
(1)
Any building, structure, facility or installation from which there is or may be a discharge of pollutants, the construction of which commenced after the publication of proposed pretreatment standards under Section 307(c) of the Act that will be applicable to such source if such standards are thereafter promulgated in accordance with that section, provided that:
a.
The building, structure, facility or installation is constructed at a site at which no other source is located;
b.
The building, structure, facility or installation totally replaces the process or production equipment that causes the discharge of pollutants at an existing source; or
c.
The production or wastewater generating processes of the building, structure, facility or installation are substantially independent of an existing source at the same site. In determining whether these are substantially independent, factors such as the extent to which the new facility is integrated with the existing plant and the extent to which the new facility is engaged in the same general type of activity as the existing source, should be considered.
(2)
Construction on a site at which an existing source is located results in a modification rather than a new source if the construction does not create a new building, structure, facility or installation meeting criteria of subsection (1)b. or c. above but otherwise alters, replaces, or adds to existing process or production equipment.
(3)
Construction of a new source as defined under this paragraph has commenced if the owner or operator has:
a.
Begun, or caused to begin as part of a continuous on-site construction program.
1.
Any placement, assembly, or installation of facilities or equipment; or
2.
Significant site preparation work including clearing, excavation, or removal of existing buildings, structures, or facilities which is necessary for placement, assembly, or installation of new source facilities or equipment.
b.
Entered into a binding contractual obligation for the purchase of facilities or equipment which are intended to be used in its operation within a reasonable time. Options to purchase or contracts which can be terminated or modified without substantial loss, and contracts for feasibility, engineering, and design studies do not constitute a contractual obligation under this paragraph.
Nitrates (NO3) shall mean a pollutant that is found in water and is a derivative of nitrogen ammonia. This pollutant is harmful to humans and especially to infants. In infants this pollutant can cause methemoglobinemia or "blue baby syndrome."
Non-contact cooling water shall mean water that is used for equipment cooling, evaporative cooling tower makeup, and dilution of heat content. The intended use of cooling water is to absorb waste heat rejected from the process or processes used, of from auxiliary operations on the facility's premises.
Non-flushable shall mean items such as, but not limited to, paper, garbage, disposable hand towels, baby wipes, cosmetic and surface wipes, and feminine hygiene products.
Non-significant categorical industrial user (NSCIU) shall mean an IU subject to categorical pretreatment standards under 40 CFR 403.6 and 40 CFR Chapter I, Subchapter N, that the POTW has determined is exempt from the definition of SIU on a finding that the IU never discharges more than 100 gpd of total categorical wastewater (excluding sanitary, non-contact cooling and boiler blowdown wastewater, unless specifically included in the pretreatment standard). The IU must also meet the following conditions: 1) The IU, before the POTW's finding, has consistently complied with all applicable categorical pretreatment standards and requirements. 2) The IU annually submits the certification statement required in 40 CFR 302.12(q) together with any additional information necessary to support the certification statement. 3) The IU never discharges any untreated concentrated wastewater. 4) The IU shall comply with its individual control mechanism, such as an individual wastewater discharge permit or an industrial (zero) discharge permit issued by the control authority.
Normal strength discharge or normal wastewater shall mean wastewater discharged into the sanitary sewer system which has a biochemical oxygen demand (BOD 5 ) concentration less than or equal to 250 mg/L, an average concentration of total suspended solids (TSS) of not more than 200 mg/L, a chemical oxygen demand (COD) of not more than 500 mg/L, total phosphorus not more than 5 mg/L, and Total Kjeldahl Nitrogen (TKN) of not more than 25 mg/L.
NPDES permit shall mean the National Pollution Discharge Elimination System permit issued to the county authorizing the discharge of sewage treatment effluent to the land/waters of the state.
Parts per billion (ppb) shall mean a measurement of concentration (same as micrograms per liter-μg/L). Since a liter of water weighs essentially 1,000,000,000 micrograms, a concentration of 1 μg/L is equal to one part per billion.
Parts per million (ppm) shall mean a measurement of concentration (same as milligrams per liter-mg/L). Since a liter of water weighs essentially 1,000,000 milligrams, a concentration of 1 mg/L is equal to one part per million.
Pass through is the discharge which exits the POTW and enters the waters of the United States in quantities or concentrations which, alone or in conjunction with a discharge or discharges from other sources, is a cause of a violation of any requirement of the county's NPDES permit, including an increase in the magnitude or duration of a violation.
Person (regardless of whether capitalized) shall include any individual, partnership, co-partnership, firm, company, corporation, association, joint stock company, trust estate, governmental entity, or any other legal entity; or their legal representatives, agents, or assigns. This definition includes, without limitation, all federal, state, and local governmental entities.
pH shall mean a pH measure of the acidity or alkalinity of a solution, expressed in standard units as follows: the logarithm (base 10) of the reciprocal of the concentration of hydrogen ions expressed in grams per liter of solution.
Phosphorus (PO4) shall mean total phosphorus, as P, expressed in terms of milligrams per liter. (P (mg) = PO 4(mg) /3.06)
Pollutant (regardless of whether capitalized) shall include dredged spoil, solid waste, incinerator residue, filter backwash, sewage, garbage, sewage sludge, munitions, medical wastes, chemical wastes, biological materials, radioactive materials, heat, wrecked or discarded equipment, rock, sand, cellar dirt, municipal, agricultural and industrial wastes, and certain characteristics of wastewater (including without limitation, pH, temperature, TSS, turbidity, color, BOD 5 , COD, TKN, phosphorous, oil and grease, toxicity, and odor).
Potential user shall mean an industrial user that is deemed by the director to require an industrial (zero) discharge permit.
Pretreatment shall mean the reduction of the amount of pollutants, the elimination of pollutants, or the alteration of the nature of the pollutant properties in wastewater prior to, or in lieu of, introducing such pollutants into the POTW. This reduction or alteration can be obtained by physical, chemical, or biological processes; by process changes; or by other means, except by diluting the concentration of the pollutants unless allowed by an applicable pretreatment standard.
Pretreatment requirements shall mean any substantive or procedural requirement related to pretreatment imposed on a user, other than a pretreatment standard.
Pretreatment standard shall mean prohibited discharge standards, categorical pretreatment standards, and local limits.
Privy or pit shall mean a shored, vertical pit in the earth completely covered with a fly-tight slab on which is securely located a fly-tight riser covered with hinged fly-tight seat and lid.
Prohibited discharge standards shall mean absolute prohibitions against the discharge of certain substances.
Properly shredded garbage shall mean the wastes from the preparation, cooking, and dispensing of food that have been shredded to such a degree that all particles will be carried freely under the flow conditions normally prevailing in public sewers, with no particle greater than one-half inch (1.27 centimeters) in any dimension.
Public sewer shall mean a sewer in which all owners of abutting properties have equal rights, and which is controlled by a public authority.
Publicly owned treatment works, POTW or sewage works shall mean a "treatment works" as defined by Section 212 of the Clean Water Act (33 U.S.C. § 1292) which is owned or operated within Forsyth County. This definition includes any devices or systems used in the collection, storage, treatment, recycling, and reclamation of wastewater, including sewage or industrial wastewater, and any conveyances which convey wastewater to a treatment plant.
Safety data sheets (SDS) shall mean a document which provides the pertinent chemical makeup and characteristics of a substance or mixture. These documents are required to be made available to personnel that may come into contact with them.
Sanitary sewer shall mean a sewer that carries liquid and water-carried wastes from residences, commercial buildings, industrial plants, and institutions together with minor quantities of ground, storm, and surface waters that are not intentionally admitted.
Septic tank shall mean a subsurface impervious tank designed to temporarily retain sewage or similar waterborne wastes together with:
(1)
A sewer line constructed with solid pipe, with the joints sealed, connecting the impervious tank with a plumbing stub out; and
(2)
A subsurface system of trenches, piping, and other materials constructed to drain the clarified discharge from the tank and distribute it underground to be absorbed or filtered.
Septic tank waste shall mean sewage and typically associated solids from domestic activities pumped from a septic tank serving one or more private residences. The director may also consider wastes from other holding tanks such as boat blackwater, bilge water, cesspools and treatment lagoons to be septic tank waste so long as they are absent chemicals, which might inhibit biological activity.
Severe property damage shall mean substantial physical damage to property, damage to the treatment facilities which causes them to be inoperable, or substantial and permanent loss of natural resources which can reasonably be expected to occur in the absence of a bypass. Severe property damage does not mean economic loss caused by delays in production.
Sewage shall mean human excrement and gray water, or a combination of the water-carried wastes from residences, business buildings, institutions, and industrial establishments, together with such groundwater, surface water, and stormwater as may be inadvertently present; provided further, however, that the term "sewage" shall not include "industrial wastewater" as that term is defined in this section.
Sewage treatment plant shall mean any arrangement of devices and structures used for treating sewage (see also "water pollution control facility").
Shall is mandatory (see also "may").
Significant industrial user (SIU). Except as provided in paragraphs (2), (3) and (4) the term significant industrial user means:
(1)
(i)
All industrial users subject to categorical pretreatment standards under 40 CFR 403.6 and 40 CFR Chapter I, Subchapter N; and
(ii)
Any other industrial user that: Discharges an average of 25,000 gallons per day or more of process wastewater to the POTW (excluding sanitary, non-contact cooling and boiler blowdown wastewater); contributes a process wastestream which makes up five percent or more of the average dry weather hydraulic or organic capacity of the POTW treatment plant; or is designated as such by the control authority on the basis that the industrial user has a reasonable potential for adversely affecting the POTW's operation or for violating any pretreatment standard or requirement (in accordance with 40 CFR 403.8(f)(6)).
(2)
The control authority may determine that an industrial user subject to categorical pretreatment standards under § 403.6 and 40 CFR Chapter I, Subchapter N is a non-significant categorical industrial user rather than a significant industrial user on a finding that the industrial user never discharges more than 100 gallons per day (gpd) of total categorical wastewater (excluding sanitary, non-contact cooling and boiler blowdown wastewater, unless specifically included in the pretreatment standard) and the following conditions are met:
(i)
The industrial user, prior to the control authority's finding, has consistently complied with all applicable categorical pretreatment standards and requirements;
(ii)
The industrial user annually submits the certification statement required in § 403.12(q) together with any additional information necessary to support the certification statement; and
(iii)
The industrial user never discharges any untreated concentrated wastewater.
(3)
Upon a finding that an industrial user meeting the criteria in paragraph (1)(ii) of this section has no reasonable potential for adversely affecting the POTW's operation or for violating any pretreatment standards or requirement, the control authority may at any time, on its own initiative or in response to a petition received from an industrial user or POTW, and in accordance with 40 CFR 403.8(f)(6), determine that such industrial user is not a significant industrial user.
(4)
Unless otherwise designated by the director pursuant to one or more of the criteria above, dental practices are not significant industrial users.
Significant noncompliance (SNC) shall mean a violation by an industrial user that meets one or more of the following criteria:
(1)
Chronic violations of wastewater discharge limits, defined here as those in which 66 percent or more of all the measurements taken for the same pollutant parameter during a six-month period exceed (by any magnitude) a numeric pretreatment standard or requirement, including instantaneous limits, as defined by 40 CFR 403.3(1);
(2)
Technical review criteria (TRC) violations, defined here as those in which 33 percent or more of all of the measurements taken for the same pollutant parameter during a six-month period equal or exceed the product of the numeric pretreatment standard or requirement, including instantaneous limits, as defined by 40 CFR 403.3(1) multiplied by the applicable TRC (TRC = 1.4 for BOD 5 , TSS, FOG, and 1.2 for all other pollutants except pH);
(3)
Any other violation of pretreatment standard or requirement, including instantaneous limits, as defined by 40 CFR 403.3(1) (daily maximum limit, longer-term average, instantaneous limit, or narrative standard) that the county determines has caused, alone or in combination with other discharges, interference or pass-through (including endangering the health of POTW personnel or the general public);
(4)
Any discharge of a pollutant that has caused imminent endangerment to human health, welfare or to the environment or has resulted in the POTW's exercise of its emergency authority to halt or prevent such a discharge;
(5)
Failure to meet, within 90 days after the scheduled date, a compliance schedule milestone contained in a control mechanism or enforcement order for starting construction, completing construction, or attaining final compliance;
(6)
Failure to provide within 45 days after the due date, required reports such as baseline monitoring reports, 90-day compliance reports, periodic self-monitoring reports, and reports on compliance with compliance schedules;
(7)
Failure to accurately report noncompliance; or
(8)
Any other violation or group of violations which may include a violation of BMPs, which in the opinion of the director appear likely to: (i) adversely affect POTW operations or implementation of the county's pretreatment program; or (ii) compromise the ability of the POTW to achieve or maintain compliance with applicable state or federal standards or the director's ability to promote the purposes and policies of this article.
Slug shall mean any discharge of a non-routine, episodic nature, including but not limited to an accidental spill or a non-customary batch discharge, which has a reasonable potential to cause interference or pass through, or in any other way violate the POTW's regulations, local limits or permit conditions, or in the opinion of the director, adversely affects the collection system and/or performance of the sewage works.
Storm drain or storm sewer shall mean a sewer which carries storm and surface waters and drainage, but excludes sewage and industrial wastes or industrial wastewater, other than unpolluted cooling water.
Stormwater shall mean any flow occurring during or following any form of natural precipitation, and resulting from such precipitation, including snowmelt.
Surcharge is a fee associated with the discharge of any of the following which are discharged to the POTW in amounts greater than those established by the director: COD, TSS, TKN, total phosphorous, biochemical oxygen demand, ammonia nitrogen, chloride, or FOG. Fines may be assessed in addition to surcharges as provided in this article.
Suspended solids shall mean total suspended matter that either floats on the surface of, or is in suspension in, water, wastewater, or other liquids, and that is removable by laboratory filtration as approved by EPA and referred to as nonfilterable residue.
Total Kjeldahl Nitrogen (TKN) shall mean the total nitrogen as measured by the Kjeldahl technique, expressed in milligrams per liter by weight using 40 CFR Part 136 procedures (as amended) or with any other test procedures approved by the EPA administrator.
Total toxic organics (TTO). The list of regulated organic chemicals as specified by the USEPA.
Toxic shall mean any pollutant or combination of pollutants listed as toxic in regulations promulgated by the administrator of the EPD under the provision of the Clean Water Act, Section 307 (a) or other Acts.
Unpolluted water shall mean water of quality equal to or better than the effluent criteria in effect or water that would not cause violation of receiving water quality standards and would not be benefited by discharge to the sanitary sewers and wastewater treatment facility.
User or industrial user shall mean any non-domestic source of pollutants into a POTW regulated under Section 307(b), (c) or (d) of the Clean Water Act.
Waste hauler shall mean any individual, association, partnership, corporation, municipality, state, federal agency, or any agent or employee thereof that transports waste by truck or other vehicle.
Wastewater shall mean liquid and water carried wastes, including industrial wastes, industrial wastewater and/or sewage from residential dwellings, commercial buildings, industrial and manufacturing facilities, and institutions, whether treated or untreated, which are contributed to the POTW.
Wastewater discharge permit shall mean individual wastewater discharge permits and general permits.
Watercourse shall mean a natural or artificial channel for the passage of water either continuously or intermittently.
Water pollution control facility or wastewater treatment plant or water reclamation facility or sewage treatment plant or treatment plant shall mean any arrangement of devices and structures used for treating sewage and industrial waste.
(Ord. No. 114-B, § 1(Exh. A), 12-5-2019)
