DIVISION 10. - COMPLIANCE MONITORING

Sec. 82-98. - Inspection, monitoring, and entry.
The director shall have the right to enter the premises of any user to determine whether the user is complying with all requirements of this article and any individual wastewater discharge permit, general permit, or order issued hereunder. The director shall perform at least one unannounced inspection and sampling each calendar year. Where the director has determined that an industrial user meets the criteria for classification as a non-significant categorical industrial user, the director must evaluate, at least once per year, whether an industrial user continues to meet the criteria in ยง 403.3(v)(2). (40 CFR 403.8(f)(2)(B))
Users shall allow the director ready access to all parts of the premises for the purposes of inspection, sampling, records examination and copying, and the performance of any additional duties.
(a)
Where a user or person has security measures in force which require proper identification and clearance before entry into its premises, such user or person shall make necessary arrangements with its security guards so that, upon presentation of suitable identification, the director and all other duly authorized county personnel, employees, or agents will be permitted to enter without delay for the purposes of performing specific responsibilities.
(b)
All significant industrial users shall install a suitable control manhole or other suitable structure together with such necessary meters and other appurtenances in the building sewer to facilitate observation, sampling, and measurement of the wastes. Such structures shall be accessibly and safely located and shall be constructed in accordance with plans approved prior to construction by the director. The structure shall be installed by the owner at the owner's expense and shall be maintained by the owner so as to be safe and accessible at all times. Plans and/or drawings of this structure shall be approved by the director. The requirement for this structure may be waived if it is deemed by the director to be unnecessary.
(c)
The director shall have the right to install on the user's property, or require installation of, such devices as are necessary to conduct sampling, metering, and/or observation of the user's operations. It shall be a violation of this article for any person or industrial user to tamper with, remove, adjust, disconnect, or otherwise interfere with the operation of these devices.
(d)
The director may require the user to install monitoring equipment as necessary to conduct sampling, metering, and/or observation of the user's operations. The facility's sampling and monitoring equipment shall be maintained at all times in a safe and proper operating condition by the user at its own expense. All devices used to measure wastewater flow and quality shall be calibrated at a frequency deemed necessary by the director, to ensure accuracy. Records of this calibration must be submitted to the director upon request.
(e)
Any temporary or permanent obstruction that prevents safe and easy access to the facility to be inspected and/or sampled shall be promptly removed by the user at the request of the director and shall not be replaced. The costs of making the facility accessible to the director shall be borne by the user.
(f)
Unreasonable delays in allowing the director access to the premises of any user or person shall be a violation of this article.
(g)
The location of the monitoring facility shall provide ample room in or near the monitoring facility to allow accurate sampling and preparation of samples and analysis and be maintained in such manner so as to enable the director to perform independent monitoring activities.
(Ord. No. 114-B, ยง 1(Exh. A), 12-5-2019)
Sec. 82-99. - Search warrants.
Nothing in this article shall prohibit the director from seeking the issuance of a search warrant from the courts of Forsyth County. The director may seek issuance of a search warrant to accomplish, without limitation, any inspection, sampling, testing, monitoring, investigation or enforcement that, in the opinion of the director, appears necessary in order for the POTW to achieve or maintain compliance with applicable state or federal standards, or in order for the director to promote the purposes and policies of this article.
(Ord. No. 114-B, ยง 1(Exh. A), 12-5-2019)
