ARTICLE II. - ESTABLISHMENT OF ZONING DISTRICTS

Sec. 47-25. - Division into districts.
(a)
For the purpose of this chapter, the city is divided into zoning districts designated as follows:
R-1 Residential District.
R-2 Residential District.
R-3 Residential District.
MF Multifamily District.
O/I Office and Institutional District.
C-1 Central Business District.
C-2 General Business District.
IND-G General Industrial District.
IND-H Heavy Industrial District.
PUD Planned Unit Development District.
(b)
Complete district regulations can be found in article V of this chapter, and further applicable regulations can be found throughout this chapter.
(Min. of 11-10-2016, § 4.1)
Sec. 47-26. - District boundaries; official zoning map.
The boundaries of each district are as shown on the "Official Zoning Map of Adairsville, Georgia," which is hereby incorporated into this chapter by reference. The official zoning map shall be retained in the office of the community development director and shall be available for inspection by the public during regular city business hours.
(Min. of 11-10-2016, § 4.2)
Sec. 47-27. - Rules for determining boundaries.
Where uncertainty exists with respect to the boundaries of any of the aforesaid districts as shown on the official zoning map, the following rules shall apply:
(1)
Where district boundaries are indicated as approximately following the centerlines of streets or highways, street lines, or highway right-of-way lines, such centerlines, street lines, or highway right-of-way lines shall be construed to be such boundaries.
(2)
Where district boundaries are so indicated that they approximately follow lot lines, such lot lines shall be construed to be said boundaries.
(3)
Where district boundaries are so indicated that they are approximately parallel to the centerlines of streets, highways, railroads, or rights-of-way of same, such district boundaries shall be construed as being parallel thereto and at such distance therefrom as indicated on the map. If no distance is given, such dimension shall be determined by the use of the scale shown on said map.
(4)
Where a district boundary line, as appearing on a map, divides a lot in single ownership at the time of this enactment into two or more classifications, the district requirements for the larger portion shall apply to the entire lot.
(Min. of 11-10-2016, § 4-3)
Secs. 47-28—47-57. - Reserved.
