ARTICLE VI. - FINANCE[3]
Footnotes:
--- (3) ---
State Law reference— Discretion of governing body as to management and disposition of property, O.C.G.A. § 36-30-2; grants of state funds to municipalities, O.C.G.A. § 36-40-1 et seq.; power of expenditure, Ga. Const. art. IX, § IV, ¶ II.

DIVISION 1. - GENERALLY

Sec. 2-268. - Fee schedule adopted.
The city council has adopted, as though fully set forth herein, a fee schedule listing charges and rates for city services. The schedule, as amended from time to time by the city council, is on file in the office of the city clerk.
(Ord. No. 2019-0008, § 3, 9-12-2019)
Sec. 2-269. - Millage rate for property taxes to be set by resolution.
In accordance with the city Charter, the city council shall establish millage rates for the city property tax, a due date, and the time period within which these taxes must be paid; provided, however, that the establishment of millage rates and payment options shall be by resolution. The county tax assessor is authorized to collect property taxes on behalf of the city.
Secs. 2-270—2-286. - Reserved.
DIVISION 2. - PURCHASING[4]

Footnotes:
--- (4) ---
State Law reference— Multiyear lease, purchase or lease purchase contracts, O.C.G.A. § 36-60-13; purchases through state, O.C.G.A. § 50-5-100 et seq.

Sec. 2-287. - Purchases.
(a)
No officer or employee of the city shall purchase for and on behalf of the city any material or supplies, goods, wares or merchandise of any kind or character except through the department head; and no voucher, check or other method of payment shall be honored if this method is not followed. It shall be considered a breach of duty on the part of any officer or employee of the city to make any purchase, or aid and abet the making of any purchase in any other manner than through the department head; provided, however, that this section shall not apply to purchases as specifically provided in sections 2-288 and 2-289.
(b)
Purchase orders required.
(c)
No officer or employee of the city shall request any merchant, dealer or other vendor to deliver goods to the city except on a regular purchase order from the department head, except in the case of purchases provided for in sections 2-288 and 2-289.
Sec. 2-288. - Limited purchases without prior purchase order.
In order to expedite purchasing, each department head may make purchases of up to $1,000.00 without receiving a prior purchase order; however, this authority does not eliminate the necessity of having a requisition for each purchase.
Sec. 2-289. - Emergency purchases.
In all cases where there is an immediate need for any material or supplies, goods, wares or merchandise by any department, such department shall write on its requisition to the finance department the words, "for emergency purposes." When a requisition so marked is received by the finance department it shall be their duty to give such requisition immediate attention. In the event of an emergency arising after office hours and requiring immediate action on the part of the department involved for the protection of the best interests of the city, or should a like situation arise on a Sunday or holiday and when it is not possible or convenient to reach the finance department, any purchase necessary shall be made by the department in charge, and such purchase shall be reported to the city manager without delay. In the event of a declaration of an emergency by the city, the city manager is authorized to make purchases on verbal request from any department head; and where necessary department heads are authorized to make purchases independent of the finance department. In such instances, such purchases shall be reported to the finance department as soon as the circumstances permit.
Sec. 2-290. - Discretion to be exercised in making purchases where quality is involved.
In all purchases where quality as well as price is involved, the department head shall exercise discretion in making the purchase.
Sec. 2-291. - Council approval and city manager approval required for certain purchasing.
(a)
The department head shall make no purchases that include any item, the price of which exceeds $1,000.00 but is less than $5,000.00 without the approval of the city manager, who may prescribe terms under which the purchases may be made.
(b)
The department head shall make no purchase that includes any item the price of which exceeds $5,000.00 without the approval of the council, which may prescribe the terms under which the purchase may be made, including advertisement for bids.
(c)
The department head shall be authorized to purchase any items which do not exceed $1,000.00 as he is requested to do so on behalf of the city by the department heads and/or the city manager.
Sec. 2-292. - Authority to reject all bids and readvertise.
Except where prohibited by law or by the wording of an advertisement for bids, the authority permitted to accept bids shall be permitted to reject all bids or parts of bids and readvertise for bids, where the public interest will be served thereby.
Sec. 2-293. - Bids to be filed and subject to inspection.
All bids for goods or materials of any kind or character purchased by the city shall be kept on file by the city clerk. After an award has been made, the bids shall be subject to inspection at any time during normal business hours by any citizen of the city.
Sec. 2-294. - Electronic transmission of information.
(a)
Electronic commerce shall include, but not limited to, on-line vendors registration, acceptance of bids and proposals by electronic mail, electronic or virtual purchasing malls and catalogs, notifications of solicitations and download capability and acceptance of electronic (digital) signatures.
(b)
Notwithstanding any other provisions, this chapter applies to records generated, stored, processed, communicated, or used for any purpose by the city for purchasing, procurement, acquisition, services, or disposition of personal property. This shall apply to all city contracts except for public works contracts.
(c)
The finance director or his designee is authorized to promulgate procedures to coordinate, create, implement, and facilitate the use of common approaches and technical infrastructure, as appropriate, to enhance the utilization of electronic commerce, electronic records, electronic signatures, and electronic security procedures by and for the city for these purposes.
(d)
The finance director shall be authorized to develop, implement, and facilitate procedures for the use of electronic records, electronic signatures, and security procedures for all other purposes. The finance director is authorized to promulgate methods, means, and standards for secure electronic procurement transactions.
Sec. 2-295. - Electronic signatures and records.
(a)
An electronic record satisfies any rule requiring a document to be in writing. An electronic signature satisfies any rule of law requiring a signature. Any electronic record is signed as a matter of law if it contains a secure electronic signature.
(b)
An electronic signature is deemed to be secure if it is created by application of a security procedure that is commercially reasonable and provided the electronic signature can be verified. Further, it is considered secure if it can be linked to the electronic record to which it relates in a manner such that, if the record is changed, the electronic signature is invalidated.
(c)
An electronic record is deemed to be secure if it is created by application of a security procedure that is commercially reasonable and agreed to be the city. The electronic record will be deemed secure when it can be verified not to have been altered since a specified point in time.
(Ord. of 7-12-2012(2), § 2-153)
Secs. 2-296—2-323. - Reserved.
