ARTICLE III. - INTERPRETATION OF TERMS AND DEFINITIONS

Section 1. - Interpretation of Terms.
1.1.
For the purpose of this ordinance, certain words or terms used herein shall be defined as follows:
A.
Words used in the singular shall include the plural, and the plural shall include the singular;
B.
Words used in the present tense shall include the future tense;
C.
The word "shall" is mandatory and not discretionary;
D.
The word "may" is discretionary;
E.
The phrased "used for" shall include the phrases "arranged for," "designed for," "intended for," "maintained for," and "occupied for."
F.
The word "person" includes a firm, partnership, or corporation.
G.
The word "lot" includes the word "plot" or "parcel."
H.
The word "building" includes the word "structures."
I.
Words not defined herein shall be construed to have the meaning given by common and ordinary use.
Section 2. - Definitions.
2.1.
ABANDON. The cessation of a use as indicated by the visible or otherwise apparent intention of an owner to discontinue a use of a structure or lot; or, the removal of the characteristic equipment of furnishing used in the performance of the use, without its replacement by similar equipment or furnishings; or, the replacement of a use or structure by a different use or structure.
2.2.
ACCESSORY BUILDING. A subordinate building or use customarily incidental to, and located on the same lot with, the main building or use, such as a garage or workshop. An accessory use may not be unrelated to the principal use of the property.
2.3.
ACCESSORY USE. A use customarily incidental to, and located on the same lot with, the main building or use, such as a garage or workshop. An accessory use may not be unrelated to the principal use of the property.
2.4.
ADVERTISING SIGN OR STRUCTURE. Any cloth, card, paper, metal, painted, glass, wooden, plastic, plaster, stone sign or other sign, device or structure of any character whatsoever, including statuary, placed for outdoor advertising purposes on the ground or on any tree, wall, bush, rock, post, fence, building or structure. The term "placed" shall include erecting, constructing, posting, painting, printing, tacking, nailing, gluing, sticking, carving or otherwise fastening, affixing or making visible in any manner whatsoever. The area of an advertising structure other than a sign shall be determined as the area of the largest cross-section of such structure. Neither directional, warning nor other signs posted by public officials in the course of their public duties nor merchandise or materials being offered for sale shall be construed as advertising signs for the purpose of this definition.
2.5.
AGRICULTURE. The raising of soil crops and/or poultry and livestock in a customary manner and shall include all associated activities.
2.6.
ALLEY. A minor right-of-way dedicated to public use which affords a secondary means of vehicular access to the back or side of properties otherwise abutting a street and which may be used for public utility purposes.
2.7.
APARTMENT. A room, or a suite of two or more rooms in a multiple dwelling unit, occupied or suitable for occupancy as a residence for one family.
2.8.
APARTMENT HOUSE. A dwelling designed for and occupied by more than two families living independently of each other as separate housekeeping units, including apartment houses, apartments and flats, but not including auto or trailer courts or camps, hotels, or resort-type hotels.
2.9.
APPLICANT. An owner or his/her designated representative who is submitting an application for consideration under any provision of this Ordinance.
2.10.
AUTOMOBILE SERVICE, MAJOR. Automobile repair services which generally require substantial replacement/repair of major components of an automobile. Examples of major automobile services include, but are not limited to, transmission repairs/replacement, paint and body work, engine overhaul, and radiator repair.
2.11.
AUTOMOBILE SERVICE, MINOR. Automobile maintenance services which generally only require very brief adjustments and replacement of minor components. Examples of minor automobile services include, but are not limited to, tune-up, oil change, lubrication, brake repair, air conditioning system servicing, muffler replacement, and alignment.
2.12.
AUTOMOBILE SERVICE STATION. A building or premise where products necessary for automobile service or maintenance are sold, provided there is no storage of automobiles, and only minor services are rendered and all repairs are performed indoors. An automobile service station is not a repair garage nor a body shop.
2.13.
BOARDING HOUSE. A dwelling other than a hotel, motel, or B&B where, for compensation and by prearrangement for definite periods, meals or lodging and meals are provided for three (3) or more persons.
2.14.
BODY SHOP. A building or premise where motor vehicle repair and/or replacement is performed, including but not limited to painting and metal fabrication of motor vehicle bodies or structures.
2.15.
BUFFER. That portion of a lot or parcel of land established for permanent vegetation and open space and intended to separate properties with a different and a possible incompatible types of use/or zoning classifications. This area is a distance as specified pursuant to this Ordinance and typically as measured from the common property line of the different uses and/or zoning classifications.
2.16.
BUFFER, NATURAL. A buffer which is left to remain in its natural state except for minor maintenance activity as may be authorized under this Ordinance.
2.17.
BUFFER, OPAQUE. A buffer which is of sufficiently dense vegetation and/or other features (such as a fence or earthen berm) as to preclude uninterrupted vision from one side to another.
2.18.
BUFFER, PLANTED. A buffer which consists of planted vegetation as provided for in this Ordinance.
2.19.
BUFFER, UNDISTURBED. A buffer, which once installed, is not to be reduced or altered except for minor maintenance as may be authorized under this ordinance. This term "installed" as used herein refers to the time at which either: a) the natural buffer is staked out, or b) the planned buffer is planted and approved.
2.20.
BUILDING. Any combination of materials, whether portable or affixed to the ground, used for sheltering, housing or the enclosure of persons, animals, property, or materials of any kind. Such "building" shall include open porches, open breezeways and any other roofed areas.
2.21.
BUILDING AND ZONING ADMINISTRATOR. The individual selected by the County Manager whose duty it shall be to administer and enforce the provisions of this Ordinance.
2.22.
BUILDING HEIGHT. The vertical distance of a building measured from the first finished floor level or street level, whichever is lower, to the highest point of the roof. The measurement shall not include roof appurtenances such as chimneys, antennas, or church steeples.
2.23.
BUILDING INSPECTOR. The official appointed by the County and charged with the responsibility of building permit and certificate of occupancy compliance certification.
2.24.
BUILDING LINE. That line which represents distance a building or structure must be set back from a lot boundary line or a street right-of-way line or street center-line according to the terms of this ordinance.
2.25.
BUILDING, PRINCIPAL or BUILDING, MAIN. A building in which there is conducted the principal use of the lot on which said building is situated. Where a permissible use involves more than one structure designed or used for the primary purpose, as in the case of group houses, each such permissible building on one lot as defined by this ordinance shall be construed as comprising a main building.
2.26.
BUILDING SITE. Means (a) the ground area of one lot or (b) the ground area of two or more lots when used in combination for a building or group of buildings, together with all open spaces required by this ordinance.
2.27.
BUSINESS OR COMMERCE. The purchase, sale or other transaction involving the handling or disposition of any article, service, substance or commodity for livelihood or profit; or the management of office buildings, offices, recreational or amusement enterprises, or the maintenance and use of offices, structures and premises by professions and trades rendering services.
2.28.
BUSINESS IDENTIFICATION SIGN. A business identification sign is a sign that contains the name of the business enterprise located on the same premises as the sign and the nature of the business conducted there. Not more than one-third of the area of a business identification sign may be devoted to commodity or service advertising.
2.29.
BUSINESS IDENTIFICATION PYLON SIGN. A sign erected on a single pole or multiple poles which contains only the name or the nature of the business conducted on the premises on which it is located.
2.30.
CAMPER. A motor home, tent, trailer, or other self-contained vehicle designed for recreational purposes.
2.31.
CERTIFICATE OF OCCUPANCY (CO). A statement signed by the Building Inspector permitting occupancy and use of a building.
2.32.
CERTIFIED SURVEY. A survey, sketch, plat, map, or other exhibit is said to be certified when a written statement regarding its accuracy or conformity to specified standards is signed by the specified professional engineer, registered surveyor, architect, or other legally recognized person.
2.33.
CHURCH. A legally approved structure and its accessory buildings used and approved on a permanent basis, primarily for the public worship of religion.
2.34.
CLUB, PRIVATE. An organization or association of persons for some common purpose, such as—but not necessarily limited to a fraternal, social, educational or recreational purpose; but not including clubs organized primarily for profit or to render a service, which is customarily carried on as a business. Such club's major purpose shall not be the serving of alcoholic beverages to its members or others. This may not be located on, or operated by, or in connection with any commercial use.
2.35.
COMMERCIAL FISHING ACTIVITIES. Commercial fishing, including aquaculture and shrimp fisheries, and those commercial activities commonly associated with or supportive of commercial fishing, such as the manufacture or sale of ice, bait and nets, and the sale, manufacture, installation, or repair of boats, engines, or other equipment commonly used on boats.
2.36.
COMMON OPEN SPACE. That land designated in a development which is undeveloped and of sufficient size and good quality, open, natural unpaved, except for recreational structures, and easily accessible which is specifically set aside for common use and enjoyment, and restricted only for such recreational and conservation uses as parks, playgrounds, swimming, golf courses and conservation areas. While the term "common land" may be either singular or plural, the intention and emphasis is on quality and suitability rather than number of parcels.
2.37.
CONDOMINIUM. A building, or group of buildings, in which units are owned individually, and the structure, common areas and facilities are owned by all the owners on a proportional, undivided basis, as more specifically provided in the Code of Georgia. It is a legal form of ownership of real estate and not a specific building style.
2.38.
COURT. Any portion of the interior of a lot or building-site which is wholly or partially surrounded by buildings, and which is not a required front, side or rear yard.
2.39.
CURB CUT. A sloping grade transition from the street or road to a site drive or parking area to permit vehicular access.
2.40.
DAY CARE CENTER. A private establishment enrolling four or more children under five (5) years of age and where tuition, fees, or other forms of compensation for the care of the children is charged.
2.41.
DEVELOPMENT SETBACK LINE. A setback line determined by authorities of this county, seaward of which no development can take place, is to be drawn 40 feet behind the first (most seaward) stable dune row. The purpose of the setback line is to delimit those areas in which development can be allowed without interfering with natural processes. Ideally, successive rows of stable dunes should be retained, for maximum protection of inland properties. The setback line represents the closest conceivable point to which development can proceed without permanent interference with the natural functioning of the dune system.
2.42.
DIRECTIONAL SIGN. The term "directional sign" means signs containing directional information about public places owned or operated by State, Federal or local governments or their agencies; publicly or privately owned natural phenomena, historic, cultural, scientific, educational, and religious sites, and areas of natural scenic beauty or naturally suited for outdoor recreation, deemed to be in the interest of the traveling public.
2.43.
DOMESTICATED PETS. Shall include dogs, cats, song birds, parrots, reptiles (excluding alligators and crocodiles), rabbits and similar animals.
2.44.
DUNES, Active. Generally, the most seaward dune group (often more than a single row) may also commonly be referred to as primary or foredunes. Dunes remain active, in a state of flux, until finally stabilized by seaward moving inland plant communities. These active dunes may be characterized by sea oats, grasses with spreading, mat-like (though shallow) root systems, and scrub vegetation, low-lying shrubs, vines and scattered herbs. On calm days, and during summer months, active dunes accumulate sand, and grow. In times of storm, and high-water, these active dunes lose sand to erosion processes and wave action.
2.45.
DUNES, Stable. Generally, the most landward dune ridges may also commonly be referred to as backdunes. These backdunes are characterized by plant life such as live oak, wax myrtle, and holly (all woody plants). Unlike foredunes, these backdunes are stable, not subject to constant shifting and change. An active-stable dune sequence should be characterized by foredunes and backdunes.
2.46.
DWELLING. Any buildings, or portion thereof, which is designed or used as living quarters for one or more families containing permanent provisions for living, cooking, sleeping and sanitation.
A.
DWELLING, GROUP. A building or portion of a building occupied or intended for occupancy by several unrelated persons or families, but in which separate cooking facilities are not provided for such resident persons or families. The term "group dwelling" includes—but is not limited to—the terms rooming house, apartment hotel, fraternity house or sorority house, YMCA or YWCA. Rooms in facilities such as hotels, motels, boarding houses, or other facilities intended for transient use shall not be considered dwellings.
B.
DWELLING, ONE FAMILY. A private residential building used or intended to be used as a home or residence in which all living rooms are accessible to each other from within the building, and in which the use and management of all sleeping quarters, all appliances for sanitation, cooking, ventilating, heating, cooling, or lighting are designed for the use of one family only on a minimum of a single lot. One family dwelling includes modular homes as defined herein.
C.
DWELLING, TWO-FAMILY OR DUPLEX. A dwelling designed to be occupied by two families living independently of each other with each dwelling unit containing an independent entrance, and permanent provisions for living, cooking, sleeping and sanitation facilities. There shall be a maximum of 4 bedrooms per unit.
D.
DWELLING, MULTIPLE-FAMILY. A dwelling designed for occupancy by three or more families living independently of each other, exclusive of auto or trailer courts or camps, hotels or resort type hotels.
E.
DWELLING UNIT. One or more rooms within a dwelling constituting a separate, independent housekeeping establishment, with provision for cooking, eating and sleeping, and physically set apart from any other room or dwelling units in the same structure. If a dwelling unit, as defined herein, is served by an individual septic system, it shall have no more than four bedrooms, unless otherwise approved by the McIntosh County Health Department.
2.47.
EDUCATIONAL INSTITUTION. Elementary, junior high, high schools, college or universities or other schools giving general academic instruction in the several branches of learning and study required to be taught by the State Board of Education.
2.48.
FACADE. The exterior surface of a building.
2.49.
FACTORY BUILT HOME. Any structure or component thereof which is designed primarily for residential occupancy and which is wholly or in substantial part made, fabricated, formed or assembled in manufacturing facilities for installation, or assembly and installation, on the building site.
2.50.
FAIR MARKET VALUE. The value of property or structures, shall mean, as determined by the tax assessor, either (a) before the improvement was started, or (b) if the structure has been damaged and is being restored, before the damage occurred.
2.51.
FAMILY. One or more persons occupying a dwelling unit living as a single, non-profit housekeeping unit; provided that a group of four or more persons who are not within the second degree of kinship shall not be deemed to constitute a family. Notwithstanding the definition in the preceding sentence, a family shall be deemed to include four or more persons not within the second degree of kinship occupying a dwelling unit and living as a single, nonprofit housekeeping unit, if said occupants are handicapped persons as defined in Title VIII of the Civil Rights Act of 1968, as amended by the Fair Housing Amendments Act of 1988. Such unrelated individuals shall have the right to occupy a dwelling unit in the same manner and to the same extent as any family unit as defined in the first paragraph of this definition.
2.52.
FARM. Any plot or tract of land devoted to agricultural purposes or the raising of domestic and/or other animals.
2.53.
FLASHING SIGN. A sign whose illumination is not kept constant in intensity at all times when in use, and which exhibits changes in light, color, direction, or animation. Illuminated signs which indicate the date, time, and temperature will not be considered flashing signs.
2.54.
FLOOR AREA, GROSS. The sum of the horizontal area of all livable floors of a building and its accessory buildings on the same lot, measured from the exterior faces of the walls. It does not include cellars, unenclosed porches or attics not used for human occupancy or for commercial and/or industrial use.
2.55.
FLOOR AREA, NET. The total of all floor areas of a building, excluding stairwells, equipment rooms, storage areas, interior vehicular parking and all floors below the first or ground floor, except when used or intended to be used for human habitation.
2.56.
FREE-STANDING SIGN. A self-supporting sign not attached to any building, wall, or fence, but in a fixed location. This does not include portable or trailer type signs.
2.57.
FRONTAGE. That Lot dimension along any road or street.
2.58.
GARAGE, PRIVATE. An accessory building or an accessory portion of the main building, enclosed on all sides and designed or used only for the shelter or storage of vehicles owned and operated by the occupants of the main building.
2.59.
GARAGE, PUBLIC. A building other than a private garage used for the care, repair or equipping of automobiles, or where such vehicles are kept for remuneration, hire, or sale.
2.60.
GENERAL SERVICE OR REPAIR ESTABLISHMENT. A commercial establishment, the primary concern of which is the rendering of service and repair activities on equipment and appliances rather than the sale of goods. Such establishments include but are not limited to: watch, clock, radio, television, home appliances, and bicycle repair, but shall not include automotive, boat, truck, and earthmoving equipment repair.
2.61.
GRADE. The average of the finished ground level at the center of all walls of a building. In case walls are parallel to and within five feet of a sidewalk, the above-ground level shall be measured at the sidewalk.
2.62.
GROUP HOME. A facility maintained for the purpose of providing accommodations for not more than 10 occupants needing medical or social support and supervision. Group homes may include orphanages.
2.63.
GUEST HOUSE. A secondary building incidental to the main residence which is used only for the non-commercial boarding of guests or on-site domestic workers.
2.64.
HEIGHT. As applied to a building means the vertical distance from grade to the highest finished roof structure in the case of flat roofs or to a point midway between the top plate and the ridge of any building having a pitch greater than one foot in four and one-half feet height of a building in stories does not include basements and cellars that are not habitable.
2.65.
HOME BEAUTY PARLORS AND PROFESSIONAL USE. When located within the principal dwelling and operated by a person resident in the building and employing not more than one person who is not a resident of the premises, provided that not more than twenty-five percent of total floor area in any dwelling unit is devoted to such use and that no additional parking spaces shall be required.
2.66.
HOME BUSINESS OFFICE. An office within a dwelling which is secondary to the use of the structure for dwelling purposes. The office may be for the purposes of service or trade workers who customarily work at various locations, such as electricians, plumbers, appraisers, or individuals who work at home, such as writers or computer programmers. Home business offices are not offices for on-site customer servicing.
2.67.
HOME OCCUPATION. An occupation or profession carried on by the inhabitants of a residence and no more than one nonresident, within their primary residence which is clearly incidental and secondary to the use of the property for residential purposes.
2.68.
HOMEOWNERS ASSOCIATION. A private non-profit corporation, association, or other non-profit legal entity organized under the laws of the State of Georgia established to provide for the ownership, care and maintenance of common open space lands and site improvements.
2.69.
HOSPITAL. An institution providing health services, primarily for in-patients, and medical and surgical care of the sick or injured—including as an integral part of the institution such related facilities as laboratories, out-patient departments, training facilities, central service facilities, and staff offices.
2.70.
HOSPITAL, VETERINARIAN. An establishment in which veterinary services, clipping, bathing, boarding, and other services are rendered to dogs, cats, and other small animals and domestic pets.
2.71.
HOTEL OR MOTEL. A building or group of buildings under one ownership containing six or more sleeping rooms occupied, intended or designed to be occupied as the more or less temporary abiding place of persons who are lodged with or without meals for compensation, but not including an auto or trailer court or camp, sanatorium, hospital, asylum, orphanage, or building where persons are housed under restraint.
2.72.
ILLUMINATED SIGN. When artificial illumination techniques are used in any fashion to project the message on a sign, that sign shall be an illuminated sign.
2.73.
INDIVIDUAL LETTER BUSINESS SIGN. An individual letter business sign consists of individual letters that spell the name of the business and are placed on the wall of the business.
2.74.
INFORMATION SIGN. Signs containing information other than directions, traffic or warning erected by a public agency.
2.75.
JUNK. Old and dilapidated automobiles, trucks, tractors, and other such vehicles and parts thereof, wagons and other kinds of vehicles and parts thereof, scrap building material, scrap piping, bottles, glass, old iron, machinery, rags, paper, excelsior, hair, mattresses, beds or bedding, or any other kind of scrap or waste material which is stored, kept, handled, or displayed.
2.76.
JUNK YARDS. Any land or building used for the purchase, sale, abandonment, storage, keeping, collecting, or bailing of paper, rags, scrap metals, other scrap or discarded materials, or for the abandonment, demolition, dismantling, storage, or salvaging of automobiles or other vehicles not in running condition, machinery, or parts thereof. A "junk yard" includes automobile wrecking yards and includes any area for storage, keeping or abandonment of junk, but does not include uses established entirely within enclosed buildings.
2.77.
KENNEL. The housing of four (4) or more dogs, cats, or other domestic animals for the purpose of providing income or revenue.
A.
COMMERCIAL KENNEL: Any location where boarding, caring for and keeping of more than a total of four (4) dogs or cats or other small animals or combination thereof (except litters of animals of not more than six (6) months of age) is carried on, and also raising, breeding, caring for or boarding of dogs, cats or other small animals for commercial purposes.
B.
NONCOMMERCIAL KENNELS: Any location where the boarding, caring for and keeping of more than four (4) but not more than twelve (12) dogs or cats or other small animals or combination thereof (except litters of animals of not more than six (6) months of age is carried on, not for commercial purposes, but as a hobby such as the raising of show and hunting dogs. Noncommercial kennels shall not be used for the purpose of producing income or revenue - and will be as a hobby only.
2.78.
LAND DISTURBING ACTIVITY. Any activity which results in changes in the volume or flow rates of rainfall runoff, soil erosion from water or wind; any installation of impervious cover; any construction, rebuilding or significant alteration of a structure that damages or destroys vegetation; any other activity that destroys vegetation in the buffer; or the movement of sediments into state waters or onto land within the state, including, but not limited to, clearing, dredging, grading, excavating, transporting, and filling of land but not including agricultural practices. Land disturbing activity shall not include activities such as ordinary maintenance and landscaping operations, individual home gardens, yard and grounds upkeep, repairs, additions or minor modifications to a single-family dwelling, and the cutting of firewood for personal use.
2.79.
LIVESTOCK. Shall include horses, cows, pigs, goats, sheep, and similar animals.
2.80.
LOADING SPACE, OFF-STREET. Space logically and conveniently located for pickups and deliveries, scaled to delivery vehicles expected to be used, and accessible to such vehicles.
2.81.
LODGING HOUSE. The same as boarding house, but not meals shall be provided.
2.82.
LOT. A parcel of land of varying size which is designated as a single unit of property and which is intended to be occupied by one building, or group of buildings, and its accessory buildings and uses as required by this ordinance.
A.
LOT, AREA. The total area included within lot lines.
B.
LOT, CORNER. A lot of which at least two adjacent sides abut for their full lengths on a street, provided that the interior angle at the intersection of such two sides is less than 135 degrees.
C.
LOT COVERAGE. That portion of the lot that is covered by impervious surfaces.
D.
LOT DEPTH. The average horizontal length between the front and rear lot lines.
E.
LOT, DOUBLE FRONTAGE or LOT, THROUGH. A lot, other than a corner lot, which has frontage on more than one street other than an alley.
F.
LOT LINES. The lines forming boundaries for a lot as defined above.
2.83.
LOT OF RECORD. An area designated as a separate and distinct parcel of land on a legally recorded subdivision plat or in a legally recorded deed as filed in the records of the Clerk of McIntosh County, Georgia Superior Court.
2.84.
MEAN SEA LEVEL. The average height of the sea for all stages of the tide.
2.85.
MANUFACTURED HOME. Any structure, transportable in one or more sections, which, in the traveling mode, is eight (8) body feet or more in width and forty (40) body feet or more in length, or when erected on site, is 320 square feet or more, and which is built on a permanent foundation when connected to required utilities, which include plumbing, heating and electrical heating systems contained therein. Homes built since June 15, 1976, are constructed in accordance with the standards of the U.S. Department of Housing and Urban Development and bear that department's insignia. The home shall be incorporated on a permanent enclosed foundation with wheels and tongue removed. Manufactured housing as defined herein shall not include pre-site built housing.
2.86.
MANUFACTURING. Uses serving the needs of the community for industrial activity which are not offensive to nearby commercial or residential uses, as described below.
A.
Light Industry includes manufacture or assembly processes carried on completely inside a building. Light Industry shall not produce any of the following adverse impacts, as determined at the boundary of the Light Industry lot:
1.
Noise at a level greater than typical street or traffic noise;
2.
Hazardous solids, liquids, or gases for emission to the environment;
3.
Offensive odors or glare;
4.
Offensive vibration; or
5.
Any other adverse impact as may be determined by the County Commission, based on evidence presented.
B.
All other manufacturing uses shall be considered Heavy Industrial.
2.87.
MEDICAL CLINIC BUILDING. An establishment where patients are accepted for special study or treatment by a group of physicians practicing together.
2.88.
MOBILE HOME. A structure, transportable in one or more sections, which, in the traveling mode, is eight body feet or more in width or 40 body feet or more in length or, when erected on site, is 320 or more square feet and which is built on a permanent chassis and designed to be used as a dwelling with or without a permanent foundation when connected to the required utilities and includes the plumbing, heating, air conditioning, and electrical systems contained therein and manufactured prior to June 15, 1976.
2.89.
MOBILE SIGN. A sign designed and constructed in such a manner as to readily allow changes of location.
2.90.
MOBILE HOME PARK. A lot containing all required utility connections where space is rented for the placement of two (2) or more mobile homes for a period exceeding thirty (30) days.
2.91.
MODULAR HOME. A factory fabricated transportable building consisting of units designed to be incorporated at a building site on a permanent foundation into a permanent structure to be used for residential purposes and which bears a seal of compliance with the regulations of the Southern Building Code Congress International, the Georgia Industrialized Building Act, or the National Manufactured Housing Construction and Safety Standards Act as amended. For the purpose of this ordinance, a modular home is a one-family detached dwelling.
2.92.
MONUMENT SIGN. A monument sign structure is one sign either single-faced or double-faced located near the front property line indicating the name of the center's or site's general activity and may include the names of business occupants therein.
2.93.
NON-CONFORMING LOT. A lot, the area, dimensions or location of which was lawful prior to the adoption of this Ordinance, but which fails, by reason of such adoption, to conform to the present requirements of the zoning district.
2.94.
NON-CONFORMING STRUCTURE or BUILDING. Any building or structure which does not conform to the space and bulk requirements of this ordinance.
2.95.
NON-CONFORMING USE. A use which was lawfully established and maintained but which, because of the application of this Ordinance, no longer conforms to the use regulations of the zone in which it is located.
2.96.
OFFICE BUILDING. Rooms and/or buildings used for office purposes of any business or service other than medical or dental clinics.
2.97.
OUTDOOR STORAGE. Placement on a lot not within a building or structure of supplies, materials, goods, products, or surplus materials for more than seven (7) consecutive days or more than thirty (30) days in any year if not fully screened from public view.
2.98.
PERENNIAL STREAM. A stream which flows year-round.
2.99.
PERSONAL SERVICES ESTABLISHMENT. A commercial establishment, the primary concern of which is the rendering of a service to persons or individuals, rather than the sale of products. Such establishments includes, but are not limited to: barber, hairdresser, beauty parlor, shoe repair, shoe shine, laundry, laundromat, dry cleaner, photographic studio and businesses providing similar services of a personal nature.
2.100.
PLANNING COMMISSION. An appointed body of people by the local governing authority whose responsibilities include the guidance of growth and development within the county and interpreting of the various county regulatory ordinances.
2.101.
PRINCIPAL BUILDING. One building, the use of which conforms to the primary use permitted by the zone classification in which it is located.
2.102.
PRINCIPAL USE. The principal purpose for which a lot or the main building therein is designed, arranged, or intended, and for which it is or may be used, occupied, or maintained.
2.103.
PROFESSIONAL SERVICES ESTABLISHMENT. A commercial establishment, the primary concern of which is the rendering of professional services of the following or similar categories: law; architecture; accounting; engineering; medicine; dentistry; optometries; osteopathy; chiropractic; optician; planning, or consulting of the nature of the aforementioned categories.
2.104.
PROJECTING SIGN. A sign extending outward not more than eight (8) feet from the wall of a building and located overhead not less than the height of the first story ceiling.
2.105.
PUBLIC BODY. Any government or governmental agency of McIntosh County, the State of Georgia, or the United States Government.
2.106.
PUBLIC USE. Use of any land, water, or buildings by a municipality, public body or board, commission or authority, county, state or the federal government, or any agency thereof for a public service or purpose.
2.107.
PUBLIC OR COMMUNITY SEWERAGE SYSTEM. This means any sewage treatment works, pipe lines or conduits, pumping stations and force mains and all other constructions, devices, and appliances appurtenant thereto, approved by the Georgia Environmental Protection Division and/or the McIntosh County Health Department and designed for treating sewage for ultimate disposal into lakes, streams, estuaries, or other bodies of surface water. The Health Department and EPD does not approve of any disposal of water into Surface Waters.
2.108.
PUBLIC UTILITY. Any person, firm or corporation, municipal department, board or commission duly authorized to furnish and furnishing under federal, state, or municipal regulations to the public: natural gas, steam, electricity, sewage disposal, communication, or water.
2.109.
RECREATION VEHICLE. A vehicle portable structure, either towed or operated under its own power, designed as a temporary dwelling for travel, recreation or vacation uses, such vehicles being commonly known as "campers," "recreational vehicles," or "travel trailers."
2.110.
REST HOME, CONVALESCENT HOME, or GUEST HOME. A home operated as a boarding house, in which nursing, dietary and other personal services are furnished to convalescents, invalids and aged persons - but in which are performed no surgery, maternity or other primary treatments such as are customarily provided in sanitariums or hospitals or in which no persons are kept or served who normally would be admittable to a mental hospital.
2.111.
RESTAURANT. An establishment whose principal business is serving food and which does not include any of the following operations:
A.
An establishment whose principal business is the sale of food and/or beverages in previously prepared, prepackaged, ready-to-consume individual servings; or
B.
An establishment that includes a drive-up or drive-through facility or curb service; or
C.
An establishment where there are fewer than fifteen (15) customer seats per 1,000 square feet of gross floor area in the establishment; or
D.
An establishment that does not provide waiter/waitress service to the customer seating area (exclusive of food bars).
2.112.
RESTAURANT, FAST FOOD. An establishment whose principal business is the sale of foods, frozen desserts, or beverages in ready-to-consume individual servings, for consumption either within the restaurant building or for carry-out, and where either:
A.
Foods, frozen desserts, or beverages are usually served in paper, plastic, or other disposable containers; or
B.
Where the majority of customers are not served their food, frozen desserts, or beverages by a restaurant employee at the same table or counter where the items are consumed; or
C.
The establishment includes a drive-up or drive-through service facility or offers curb service.
2.113.
RIGHT-OF-WAY. A strip of land that is generally used for the location of a street, walkway, utility line or other access way, that is separate and distinct from the lots and parcels adjoining such right-of-way and not included within the dimensions of areas of such other lots or parcels.
2.114.
ROOF SIGN. A roof sign structure is one business sign either single-faced or double-faced located on the roof of the business advertised by the sign and extending upward not more than 8 feet high.
2.115.
ROOMING HOUSE. The terms rooming house, boarding house, tourist home, cooperative house and lodging house are used synonymously in this Ordinance.
2.116.
SETBACK. The minimum horizontal distance between the right-of-way line, rear or side lines of the lot and the front, rear or side lines of the building. When two or more lots under one ownership are used, the exterior property line so grouped shall be used in determining offsets.
2.117.
SHOPPING CENTER. A group of commercial establishments having a building composition that is an architectural unit and is not a miscellaneous assemblage of stores; planned, developed, analyzed as a unit, related in location, size, and type of shops to the trade areas that the unit serves, and providing onsite parking in definite relationship to the types and sizes of stores. Shopping Centers are classified by type, each distinctive in its own function.
A.
Neighborhood Shopping Center. Provides for the sale of convenience goods (foods, drugs, sundries, etc.) and personal services (laundry, barbering, shoe repair, etc.) for the day-to-day living needs of the immediate neighborhood, and is usually built around a supermarket which is the principal tenant.
B.
Community Shopping Center. In addition to the convenience, goods and personal services of the neighborhood center, provides a wider range for the sale of soft line (apparel, etc) hard line (hardware and appliances) and includes eating facilities, making more depth of merchandise and services available. It is usually built around junior department store or variety store which is the principal tenant.
C.
Regional Shopping Center. Provides for general merchandise, apparel, furniture and home furnishings in full depth and variety. It is built with one or more full-line department stores as the focal point.
2.118.
SIGN. Any display of lettering, logos, colors, lights, or illuminated neon tubes visible to the public from outside of a building or from a traveled way, which either conveys a message to the public, or intends to advertise, direct, invite, announce, or draw attention to, directly or indirectly, a use conducted, goods, products, services or facilities available, either on the lot or any other premises, excluding window displays and merchandise.
2.119.
SIGN AREA. The area of the face of the sign formed by a perimeter consisting of a series of straight lines enclosing all parts of the sign. The area of a free-standing sign structure is the area of the face or faces on each side only.
2.120.
SINGLE-FAMILY RESIDENCE. A structure which contains one dwelling unit designed for occupation by one family. It may be stick built manufactured or modular housing but not a mobile home.
2.121.
SPECIAL USE. A use which within certain districts specified by this ordinance is not permitted as a matter of right, may be permitted within these district by the County Board of Commissioners after it has:
A.
Reviewed, in conjunction with the Standards of Review, the proposed site plans, its location within the County, its arrangements and design, its relationship to neighboring property and other conditions peculiar to the particular proposal which would determine its desirability or undesirability; or
B.
Has found the proposal not to be contrary to the intent of this ordinance.
2.122.
STORY. That portion of a building included between the surface of any floor and the surface of the floor next above it; or if there be no floor above it, then the space between the floor and ceiling next above it.
2.123.
STREET. Any public or private thoroughfare which affords the principal means of access to abutting property.
A.
STREET CENTERLINE. That line surveyed and monumented by the governing authority shall be the centerline of a street, or in the event that no centerline has been determined, it shall be that line running midway between, and parallel to the outside right-of-way lines of such streets.
B.
STREET, INTERSECTING. Any street which joins another street at an angle, whether or not it crosses the other.
2.124.
STRUCTURE. Anything constructed or erected which requires location on the ground or attached to something having a location on the ground, including items located in water which are attached to the ground, but not including fences or walls used as fences less than six feet in height.
2.125.
STRUCTURAL ALTERATIONS. Any change in the supporting members of a building, such as bearing walls or partitions, columns, beams, or girders, or any substantial change in the roof or in the exterior walls.
2.126.
SUBDIVISION. The division of a track or parcel that is less than 5 acres per parcel and does include new public roads.
A.
The public acquisition of land for use in widening existing streets.
B.
The transference of part of one lot or trace in an existing subdivision to adjacent lots or tract in the same subdivision providing that the transference does not reduce any lot or tract to an area or width less than the zoning minimum of the area and does not increase the total number of lots.
2.127.
TEMPORARY SIGN. A sign intended to be used for a period of no more than thirty (30) days. Exceptions for pennants and similar devices intended for civic purposes may be granted by special permit.
2.128.
TOWNHOUSE. A multi-story dwelling unit located on a row of dwelling units with no other dwelling unit located above or below another, and with each dwelling unit having a fire restrictive party wall from ground floor to the roof decking and a private exterior entrance.
2.129.
TRAFFIC SIGN. Signs containing information for direction of all moving traffic/vehicles erected by a public agency.
2.130.
TRAILER. A vehicle designed for towing, not intended for use as a dwelling, either temporary or permanent, and restricted to such uses as a temporary construction office and/or storage facility, temporary operations office pending construction of a permanent facility, and the like.
2.131.
TRAVEL TRAILER. A vehicular type portable structure without permanent foundation, which can be towed, hauled or driven and primarily designed as temporary living accommodation for recreational, camping and travel use.
2.132.
USE. The purpose for which land or a building is arranged, designed or intended, or for which either land or a building is or may be occupied or maintained.
2.133.
VARIANCE. A relaxation of the terms of the Zoning Ordinance that will not be contrary to the public interest and where, owing to conditions peculiar to the property and not the result of the actions of the applicant, a literal enforcement of the regulations would result in unnecessary or undue hardship; and where such modification will not authorize a principal or accessory use of the property which is not permitted within the Zoning District in which the property is located.
2.134.
WALL SIGN. Signs attached to the wall of a building and not projecting more than twelve (12) inches from the building.
2.135.
WAREHOUSE. A building used exclusively, except for appurtenant office space, for the storage of goods or merchandise.
2.136.
WARNING SIGN. Signs containing information to alert traffic to special conditions on the street/highway erected by a public agency.
2.137.
WATER DEPENDENT USES. Those uses that require for their primary purpose, location on submerged lands or that require direct access to, or location in coastal waters and which therefore cannot be located away from these waters. Those uses include, but are not limited to commercial and recreational fishing and boating facilities, finfish and shellfish processing, aquaculture, storage, and retail and wholesale marketing facilities, marinas, navigation aides, basins and channels, industrial uses dependent upon water-borne transportation or requiring large volumes of cooling or processing water that cannot reasonably be located or operated at an inland site and uses which primarily provide general public access to marine or tidal waters.
2.138.
WETLANDS. Those areas that are inundated or saturated by surface or groundwater at a frequency and duration sufficient to support, and that under normal circumstances do support, a prevalence of vegetation typically adapted for life in saturated soil conditions. Wetlands generally include swamps, marshes, bogs, and similar areas. For purposes of this ordinance, wetlands do not include coastal marshlands as defined under the Georgia Coastal Marshlands Protection Act.
2.139.
YARD. An open space between a building and the adjoining lot lines, unoccupied and unobstructed by any portion of a structure from the ground upward except where an accessory building may be located in a portion of a yard required for a main building or as otherwise specifically provided in these Regulations. In measuring a yard for the purpose of determining the width of the side yard, the depth of a front yard or the depth of a rear yard, the least horizontal distance between the lot line and the main building shall be used.
A.
YARD, FRONT. An open unoccupied space within and extending the full width of the lot, between the R.O.W. property line and the closest part of a structure nearest to such street line. In the case of a corner lot which has frontage on two streets, the yard areas abutting both streets shall be considered front yards for setback purposes.
B.
YARD, REAR. An open unoccupied space within and extending the full width of the lot, between the rear property line and the closest part of the structure nearest to such property line. On both corner lots and interior lots, the rear yard shall in all cases be at the opposite end of the lot from the front yard.
C.
YARD, SIDE. An open unoccupied space within the lot between the side lot line, not a street line, and the parts of the structure nearest to such lot line.
(Ord. No. 2013-3, 6-11-2013)
