ARTICLE IX. - SIGN REGULATIONS

Section 1. - General Sign Provisions.
1.1.
No sign shall be erected or maintained unless it is in compliance with the regulations of this Article.
1.2.
Signs must be constructed of durable materials, maintained in good condition, and not permitted to become dilapidated.
1.3.
All signs located on sites abutting or visible from the I-95 right-of-way shall conform with section 95A-916 of the Georgia Outdoor Advertising Code and shall meet all federal and state requirements necessary to obtain a permit under said code. In instances where the sign controls of this ordinance are stricter, these regulations shall apply.
1.4.
The creation, construction or maintenance of signs in areas adjacent to and/or visible from primary and interstate highway system rights-of-way shall be limited to property zoned: C-N Neighborhood Commercial, C-G General Commercial, C-I Interchange Commercial, I-R Restricted Industrial, and I-G General Industrial Land Use Districts.
1.5.
No signs, except as otherwise specified, shall exceed the height limit of the district in which they are located.
1.6.
Any sign which advertises an activity, business, product, or service which has ceased operation or production shall be removed within one (1) month of the discontinuance of said activity.
Section 2. - Sign Permit Required.
2.1.
A sign permit is required before a sign or banner may be erected or attached to, suspended from or supported on a building or structure; and before an existing sign may be enlarged, relocated or materially improved, except for painting of the structure or sign frame or the replacement of lights or mechanical parts.
2.2.
A sign permit shall be issued by the Building and Zoning Administrator when the plans, specifications and intended use of the applied sign conforms in all respects to the applicable provisions of this Ordinance and in accordance with Article X, and any other applicable law or ordinance.
2.3.
The Building and Zoning Administrator is hereby authorized to issue a temporary permit for a Special Event Sign to be placed along the rights-of-way, county owned properties, or private owned properties zoned commercial or industrial whereby the public will be informed about an upcoming event or directed to the location of an event. Said temporary permit shall require a one hundred dollar ($100.00) cash bond and shall allow the signs to be posted no earlier than fourteen (14) days on private property or five (5) days on county property prior to the event nor longer than five (5) days after the event, regardless of the property's ownership. Signs shall not exceed twenty-four (24) square feet in area. The location and size of any sign must be approved by the Building and Zoning Administrator and Road Superintendent before a temporary permit is issued.
2.4.
The Building and Zoning Administrator is hereby authorized to issue a temporary permit for Political Signs during any normal campaign period for any election for public office. Political signs located on private property shall not exceed the area limitations set forth in each particular zoning district. Said temporary permit shall require a one hundred dollar ($100.00) cash bond and shall be from last day of qualification (as established by applicable federal, state or local law) till five (5) days after the election date.
2.5.
All temporary signs must be removed by the permittee or erector of the sign by the fifth (5th) day after the occurrence of the event, including but not limited to any special event, election, sale or lease of real estate, or the conveyance of seventy-five percent (75%) of the subdivision lots. If such temporary signs are not removed by the fifth (5th) day, the permittee of those signs requiring permits shall forfeit the one hundred dollar ($100.00) cash bond. Upon forfeiture of the bond by the permittee, the McIntosh County Public Works Department shall be authorized to remove and dispose of the affected signs. Those temporary signs not requiring permits shall be removed according to the provisions of this article.
2.6.
Signs must be maintained in good condition and not permitted to become dilapidated. Each application and sign permit shall contain an agreement to indemnify and hold the county harmless of all damages, demands or expenses of every character which may in any manner be caused by the sign or sign structure, either permanent, or temporary.
2.7.
Permits shall not be required for official signs, real estate signs, construction signs, temporary subdivision signs, temporary window signs, instructional/informational signs, official notices issued by any court, public agency or officer, and allowed home occupation signs under the regulations set forth in this Article.
2.8.
A sign permit shall become null and void if the sign for which the permit was issued has not been completed within a period of six (6) months after the date of issuance. For purposes of this section, an outdoor advertising sign shall be completed if the sign base has been constructed.
2.9.
The provisions of this Ordinance shall not apply to the ordinary servicing, repainting of existing sign message, cleaning of a sign, nor to changing of advertising on a sign specifically designed for periodic change of message without change in structure, such as a billboard, or similar type of sign.
2.10.
No permit shall be issued until fees have been paid as established by the McIntosh County Board of Commissioners and a sketch plan showing the following information has been filed with the Building and Zoning Administrator:
A.
Sketch plan showing the exact location of signs, setbacks from right(s)-of-way, and proximity to driveways, curbs, buildings, and other structures; and
B.
Elevation drawing(s) showing height, width, and style of sign(s) and other structures.
2.11.
No permit shall be issued for signs to be located in excess of twenty (20) feet in height from ground level until the applicant provides signed and sealed engineering results certified by a Professional Engineer Registered in Georgia that such signs can withstand a one-hundred (100) miles per hour wind load.
2.12.
A permit fee shall be paid to McIntosh County for each permit required by this Ordinance. The fee shall be increased in direct relation to the increase in the dollar value of the sign according to the rate schedule in the office of the Building and Zoning Administrator.
Section 3. - Prohibited Signs.
3.1.
Signs imitating warning signals are prohibited. No sign shall display lights resembling the flashing lights customarily used in traffic signals or in police, fire, ambulance, or rescue vehicles; nor shall any signs use the words, slogans, dimensional shape and size, or colors of the governmental traffic signs.
3.2.
No signs, except traffic signs and signals and informational signs erected by a public agency, are permitted within any street or highway right-of-way.
3.3.
Signs painted or attached to natural features (such as trees or rocks), telephone poles, utility poles, or fence posts are prohibited.
3.4.
Fluttering ribbons and banners are prohibited.
3.5.
Signs within 300 feet of any officially designated historical site or monument, except signs pertaining to that particular site or monument are prohibited.
Section 4. - Regulations for Specific Types of Signs.
4.1. Home Occupation Signs.
One non-illuminated professional or business name plate not exceeding two square feet in area is permitted.
4.2. Signs of Work Under Construction.
One non-illuminated sign, not exceeding forty (40) square feet in area displaying the name of the building, the contractors, the architects, the engineers, the owners, the financial selling and development agencies is permitted upon the premises of any work under construction, alteration, or removal. Such sign shall be removed from the site within thirty (30) days after the completion of the project.
4.3. Temporary Subdivision Signs.
Temporary signs, not exceeding forty (40) square feet in area announcing a land subdivision development, are permitted on the premises of the land subdivision. Such signs shall be spaced not less than three hundred (300) feet apart. They shall be removed when seventy-five (75%) of the lots are conveyed.
4.4. Private Directional Signs.
Signs indicating the location and direction of premises available for or in the process of development, but not erected upon such premises, and having inscribed thereon the name of the owner, developer, builder, or agent may be erected and maintained provided:
A.
The size of any such sign is not in excess of six (6) square feet, and not in excess of four (4) feet in length; and
B.
Not more than one (1) such sign is erected on each five hundred (500) feet of street frontage.
4.5. Roof Signs.
Not more than one (1) roof sign structure may be erected on the roof of any one (1) building. No roof sign structure shall extend more than twenty-five (25) feet above the elevation of the roof.
4.6. Wall Signs.
Signs on the walls of a building (including signs attached flat against the wall, painted wall signs and projecting signs) shall meet the following requirements:
A.
Signs on the Front Surface of a Building. The total area of signs on the exterior front surface of a building shall not exceed twenty-five (25%) percent of the front surface of the building, so long as the figure does not exceed the total amount of sign area permitted within the Zoning District where the sign or signs are to be located.
B.
Signs on the Side and Rear Surface of a Building. The total area of signs on a side or rear surface of building shall not exceed fifty (50%) percent of the exterior side or rear surface of the building respectively, so long as this figure does not exceed the total amount of sign area permitted within the Zoning District where the sign or signs are to be located.
C.
The combined sign area on the front, side and rear surface of a building must not exceed the total sign area permitted within the Zoning Districts where the sign or signs are to be located.
D.
Projecting Signs. Wall signs attached flat to a wall may not extend more than twenty-four (24) inches from the wall.
E.
Signs attached at an angle to a wall may extend outward from the wall of a building not more than five (5) feet.
4.7. Illuminated Signs.
Illumination devices shall be so placed and so shielded that light from the sign itself will not be directly cast into any residential district, sleeping rooms in any district or the eyes of an automobile or vehicular driver.
4.8. Outdoor Advertising Signs.
If visible from the Interstate 95 right-of-way, shall meet the following requirements:
A.
Uniform Size. The outside measurements of all such signs shall be twelve (12) feet in height and fifty (50) feet in length, with or without trim.
B.
Illumination. All illuminated signs shall use base mounted fluorescent or mercury vapor lights and shall be activated by photo-electric cells. Additional lighting including, but not limited to, neon, animation and running lights is prohibited.
C.
Height above Interstate grade. All signs shall be a minimum of ten (10) feet above adjacent interstate pavement measuring from the lower portion of the sign face. Signs shall not exceed thirty (30) feet in height. Two signs in the same location (back-to-back) or "V" formation) shall be the same height above the interstate's surface.
D.
Extrusions Prohibited. Extrusions beyond the face of the sign, excluding aprons, are prohibited.
E.
Number of signs per location. Only one sign shall be allowed to face the same direction per location. This allows back-to-back or "V" formation signs but prohibits two signs (side-by-side) facing the same direction.
F.
Spacing. Sign locations shall be no less than five hundred (500) feet apart measuring from the two closest points.
G.
Sign structures shall be no less than ten (10) feet from any property or right-of-way line.
H.
Locations limited per quadrant. A maximum of three sign locations shall be permitted per interchange quadrant provided that spacing requirements can be met.
I.
Marsh and historic area locations prohibited. No sign shall be placed in or obstruct the view of a marshland area or an area of designated historic interest.
J.
Advertisement limitations. Outdoor advertising shall be limited to the following:
1.
Travel service facilities including lodging, gas, food, camping;
2.
Areas of scenic beauty;
3.
Public attractions including historic, natural, scientific or recreational amenities; and
4.
Any combination of the above-listed facilities. Further, the content of all advertising shall be directional in nature.
4.9. Spotlights.
The use of spotlights and other similar illumination devices may be permitted in commercial zoning districts upon issuance of a special use permit, subject to the following additional restrictions:
A.
No spotlight may be directed at lower than 22½ degrees. For purposes of determining the degree of angle, zero degrees shall be considered directly up and above the spotlight. The lowest illuminated portion of any such light shall not shine lower than 22½ degrees.
B.
No spotlight shall shine or illuminate the atmosphere directly above any portion of a residential district. Therefore, neither the light nor the illuminated atmosphere or clouds shall not be visible using the naked eye from any residential district while looking straight up within a residential district.
C.
By seeking a special use permit for a spotlight, applicants are hereby placed on notice that the issuance of a special permit for use of a spotlight shall be revocable by the McIntosh County Board of Commissioners, with or without the consent of the zoning board, at any time after issuance. Said applicants are hereby placed on notice that the nuisance caused by such a spotlight may not be determinable in advance of issuance of such permit.
D.
For purposes of this section the term "spotlight" shall include any other similar illumination device.
Section 5. - Signs Permitted in A-F District.
5.1.
For permitted home occupations, one non-illuminated professional or business name plate not exceeding 2 square feet in area.
5.2.
For uses other than dwellings, a single illuminated or non-illuminated institution or business identification sign or bulletin board not exceeding 20 square feet in area. Such sign shall be set back not less than 15 feet from the street right-of-way line unless attached to the front wall of a building.
5.3.
Temporary subdivision signs and private directional signs, under the provisions set forth in Section 4, 4.3 and 4.4.
5.4.
Off-premise signs, provided such signs are not visible from the rights-of-way of I-95 and U.S. 17 and do not exceed 32 square feet in area.
Section 6. - Signs Permitted in A-R, R-1, R1-CS and R-2 Districts.
6.1.
For permitted home occupations, one non-illuminated professional or business name plate not exceeding 2 square feet in area.
6.2.
For uses other than dwelling, a single illuminated or non-illuminated institution or identification sign or bulletin board not exceeding 6 square feet in area.
6.3.
Temporary subdivision signs and private directional signs, under the provisions set forth in Section 4, 4.3 and 4.4.
Section 7. - Signs Permitted in MH and RV Districts.
7.1.
One non-illuminated professional or business name plate not exceeding two (2) square feet in area mounted flat against the wall of a building in which there is conducted a permitted home occupation.
7.2.
Signs, illuminated or non-illuminated; not to exceed a combined total sign area of 100 square feet per mobile home park or recreational vehicle park; and that where a mobile home park abuts a federal primary or interstate highway, only one (1) business identification sign, illuminated or non-illuminated, not to exceed a total sign area of 100 square feet per mobile home park.
Section 8. - Signs Permitted in C-N Districts.
8.1.
All signs as permitted by Section 4.
8.2.
The number of signs shall be limited to three for each street on which the establishment fronts. The maximum size of a sign for any business establishment shall be 64 square feet.
Section 9. - Signs Permitted in C-G, C-I, and I-G Districts.
9.1.
All signs permitted in A-F, A-R, R-1, R-2, C-N Districts are permitted in commercial and industrial districts.
9.2.
On any occupied zoning lot in a commercial or industrial district, not more than four (4) signs of any type having a total area of not more than seven hundred fifty (750) square feet shall be permitted.
9.3.
Commercial or industrial uses located on or adjacent to major streets or controlled access thoroughfares in commercial or industrial districts may include as part of their total permitted sign area, one (1) business identification pylon sign which shall be erected so that no portion of the sign shall be less than ten (10) feet back from the street right-of-way line.
9.4.
Signs in any commercial or industrial district may be illuminated.
9.5.
Each commercial use in a C-I district shall be allowed one business identification sign not to exceed 80 feet in height as part of its total permitted sign area.
Section 10. - Signs Permitted in CP Districts.
10.1.
One non-illuminated business identification sign not exceeding twenty (20) square feet in area may be erected for each use permitted in a Conservation Preservation District.
10.2.
Other directional or historical signs approved by the Planning Commission and County Commission may be allowed.
Section 11. - Signs Permitted in Maritime Districts.
11.1.
One non-illuminated business identification sign not exceeding twenty (20) square feet in area may be erected for each use permitted in the Maritime District.
11.2.
Other directional or historical signs approved by the Planning Commission and County Commission.
Section 12. - Signs Permitted in the Hog Hammock District.
12.1.
Signs shall be in conformance with Article VIII, Section 6.
12.2.
Other directional or historical signs approved by the Planning Commission and County Commission.
Section 13. - Signs Permitted in the Waterfront Overlay District.
13.1.
One non-illuminated business identification sign not exceeding twenty (20) square feet in area may be erected for each use permitted in a Waterfront Overlay District.
13.2.
Other directional or historical signs approved by the Planning Commission and County Commission.
