Chapter 4 - ADULT ENTERTAINMENT[1]

Footnotes:
--- (1) ---
State Law reference— Governing authority has power to enact legislation to restrict operation of adult bookstores, explicit media outlets, and adult movie houses to areas zoned for commercial or industrial purposes, O.C.G.A. § 36-60-3; establishment, maintenance or use of building, structure or place for unlawful sexual purposes, O.C.G.A. § 41-3-1.

Sec. 4-1. - Findings; public purpose.
(a)
The board of commissioners of the county has found that the county is an attractive place for the location of commercial enterprises and of residences for families and the board is committed to adopting ordinances designed to protect the quality of life for its citizens.
(b)
Based upon the experience of other counties and municipalities, which experiences the board finds are relevant to the problems faced by McIntosh County, and which do not vary greatly among generally comparable communities within this country, the board finds that public nudity, under certain circumstances, particularly related to the sale and consumption of alcoholic beverages in adult entertainment facilities offering live entertainment, begets criminal behavior and tends to create undesirable community conditions.
(c)
The board finds and declares that the purpose of this chapter is to regulate certain adult entertainment establishments to the end that the many types of criminal activities frequently engendered by such businesses and the adverse effect on property values and on the public health, safety and welfare of the county, and on its citizens and property, and on the character of its neighborhoods and development, will be curtailed. This chapter is not intended as a de facto prohibition of legally protected forms of expression. Instead, this chapter is intended to represent a balancing of competing interests: to reduced criminal activity and to protect neighborhoods, developments, and the county's citizenry through the regulation of adult establishments where adult entertainment is permitted and other sexually oriented businesses, such as adult book stores and adult video stores, versus any legally protected rights of adult entertainment establishments and patrons. This chapter is not intended to allow or license any business, establishment or activity which would otherwise be unlawful
(d)
The Supreme Court of Georgia, in Chambers d/b/a Neon Cowboy v. Peach County, Georgia, 266 Ga. 318 (1996), held that local governments may adopt ordinances designed to combat the undesirable secondary effects of sexually explicit businesses, and further held that a governing authority seeking to regulate adult entertainment establishments must have evidence of a relationship between the proposed regulation and the undesirable secondary effects it seeks to control.
(e)
The Supreme Court of Georgia further held in the same opinion, and the United States Supreme Court held in City of Renton v. Playtime Theatres, Inc., 475 U.S. 41 (1986) that a local government may rely on the experience of other cities in enacting legislation to regulate adult entertainment businesses.
(f)
Based on the experiences of other municipalities and counties including, but not limited to, Sandy Springs, Georgia; City of St. Mary's, Georgia; Rome, Georgia; Gwinnett County, Georgia; Fulton County, Georgia; Hamilton County, Tennessee; Adams County, Colorado; New York City, New York; Indianapolis, Indiana; Dallas, Texas; Oklahoma City, Oklahoma; Amarillo, Texas; Austin, Texas; Phoenix, Arizona; Manatee County, Florida; City of Garden Grove, California; Forth Worth, Texas; Houston, Texas; St. Cloud, Minnesota; Whittier, California; and the City of Los Angeles, California, which are found to be relevant to the problems faced by McIntosh County, the board notes the documented negative economic, physical, and social impact adult entertainment businesses have on the community.
(g)
The Supreme Court of Georgia has upheld ordinances prohibiting the serving or consumption of alcoholic beverages in adult entertainment establishments.
(h)
Among the undesirable community conditions identified with live nude entertainment and alcohol are depression of property values in the surrounding neighborhood, increased expenditure for the allocation of law enforcement personnel to preserve law and order; increased burden on the judicial system as a consequence of the criminal behavior, and acceleration of community blight; Daytona Grand, Inc. v. City of Daytona Beach, 490 F.3d 860 (11th Cir. 2007); 5634 East Hillsborough Ave., Inc. v. Hillsborough County, 2007 WL 2936211 (M.D. Fla. Oct. 4, 2007), aff'd, 2008 WL 4279670 (11th Cir. Sept. 18, 2008) (per curium); California v. LaRue, 409 U.S. 109 (1972); N.Y. State Liquor Authority v. Bellanca, 452 U.S. 714 (1981); Flanigans Enterprises, Inc. of Georgia v. Fulton County, Georgia, 2010 WS 520542 (11th Cir. 2010).
(i)
This chapter furthers important governmental interests of reducing crime and protecting property values which are unrelated to the suppression of speech.
(j)
It is the intent of the board to enact an ordinance, narrowly tailored, sufficient to combat the undesirable secondary effects of the serving and consumption of alcoholic beverages at adult entertainment facilities.
(k)
It is not the intent of the board in enacting this chapter to deny to any person the right to speech or expression protected by the United States Constitution or state constitution, nor it is the intent to deny or restrict the rights of any adult to obtain or view any sexually oriented performance or materials protected by the United States Constitution or state constitution, but to adopt a content-neutral ordinance to combat the undesirable secondary effects of adult entertainment where alcoholic beverages are served or consumed.
(l)
The board further finds that other forms of adult establishments, including, but not limited to, adult book stores, adult novelty shops, adult video stores, peep shows, and adult theaters, have an adverse effect on the quality of life in other similar communities.
(m)
The board finds that the negative secondary effects of adult establishments upon the community in the county are similar whether the business features live nude dancing, sells books, videotapes or other media depicting sexual activities or sexual devices or allows the exhibition of sexually explicit films or videos on the premises of the adult entertainment establishment. H & A Land Corp. v. City of Kennedale, 480 F.3d 336 (5th Cir. 2007); High Five Investments, LLC v. Floyd County, No. 4:06-CV-0190-HLM (N.D. Ga. Mar. 14, 2008).
(n)
The board finds that it is the best interest of the health, welfare, safety and morals of the community and the preservation of its businesses, neighborhoods, and of churches, schools, residential areas, public parks and other specific areas to prevent or reduce the adverse impacts of adult establishments by imposing regulations pertaining to the exhibition of nude dancing, sexually explicit films or videos, regulations on loitering, visibility and monitoring requirements, prohibiting alcohol sales and consumption, and restricting the distance from other adult establishments and providing for minimum distance requirements from residential areas, schools, public parks, churches and other sensitive uses as set forth in this chapter.
(o)
The board finds that licensing and regulations are necessary for any adult entertainment establishment.
(p)
This chapter is enacted to further the health, safety, and welfare of the citizens of the county.
(Ord. of 1995, § 1; Ord. of 12-14-2010(1), intro.)
Sec. 4-2. - Definitions.
The following words, terms and phrases, when used in this chapter, shall have the meanings ascribed to them in this section, except where the context clearly indicates a different meaning:
Adult bookstore means an establishment having a substantial portion of its stock in trade, books, magazines or other periodicals which are distinguished or characterized by their emphasis on matter depicting, describing or relating to specified sexual activities or specified anatomical areas or an establishment with a segment or section, comprising five percent of its total floor space, devoted to the sale or display of such materials or five percent of its net sales consisting of printed materials which are distinguished or characterized by their emphasis on matter depicting, describing or relating to specified sexual or specified anatomical areas.
Adult dancing establishment means a business that features dancers displaying or exposing specified anatomical areas.
Adult entertainment establishment means and includes an adult bookstore, adult dancing establishment, adult motion picture theater, adult motion picture arcade, adult video store, erotic dance establishment, and any similar type business or occupation.
Adult motion picture arcade means any place to which the public is permitted or invited wherein coins or slug-operated or electronically, electrically or mechanically controlled still or motion picture machines, projectors or other image-producing devices are maintained to show images which are distinguished or characterized by an emphasis on depicting or describing specified sexual activities or specified anatomical areas.
Adult motion picture theater means a building or structure used for presenting material distinguished or relating to specified sexual activities or specified anatomical areas for observation by patrons therein.
Adult video store means an establishment having a substantial or significant portion of its stock in trade, videotapes or movies or other reproductions, whether for sale or rent, which are distinguished or characterized by their emphasis on matter depicting, describing or relating to specified sexual activities or specified anatomical areas or an establishment with a segment or section, comprising five percent of its total floor space, devoted to the sale or display of such material or which derives more than five percent of its net sale from videos which are characterized or distinguished by their emphasis on matter depicting describing or relating to specified sexual activities or specified anatomical areas.
Alcoholic beverages means and includes all alcoholic beverages, including without limitation, distilled spirits, beer, malt beverage, wine and fortified wine.
Employee as used in this chapter includes without limitation any worker, traditional employees, dancers, waitresses, food service workers, clerks, supervisors, and includes independent contractors who perform any such function or occupation.
Entity means any sole proprietorship, corporation, partnership of any nature, limited liability company, company, organization, association, or any other similar formation, whether recognized by any secretary of state or not.
Erotic dance establishment means a nightclub, theater or other establishment which features live performances by topless and/or bottomless dancers, go-go dancers, strippers or characterized by an emphasis on specified sexual activities or specified anatomical areas.
Felony means, for purposes of this chapter, a conviction of a criminal offense punishable by more than one year's imprisonment, by any federal, state or other court. For purposes of this chapter, such term shall include the entry of a plea of guilty although adjudication of guilt has been withheld by the court.
Interest holder means any person who owns any interest in any entity, as the term "entity" is defined in this section.
Licensed premises means the adult entertainment establishment which has been granted a permit or license to operate an adult entertainment establishment, but only during the duration of a current and valid license or permit.
Licensee means any person who is a resident of the county or entity with an office in the county, which person or entity has been granted a license by the county to operate an adult entertainment establishment.
Minor means any person who has not attained the age of 18 years.
State Law reference— Similar provision, O.C.G.A. § 3-3-23.
Specified anatomical areas includes less than completely and opaquely covered human genitals or pubic region, or female breast below a point immediately above the top of the areola.
Specified sexual activities means and includes any of the following:
(1)
Actual or simulated sexual intercourse, oral copulation, anal intercourse, oral anal copulation, bestiality, direct physical stimulation of unclothed genitals;
(2)
Clearly depicted human genitals in a state of sexual stimulation or arousal;
(3)
Sodomy, oral copulation, coitus, or masturbation;
(4)
Fondling or touching of nude human genitals, pubic region, buttocks or female breasts;
(5)
Masochism, erotic or sexually oriented torture, beating or the infliction of pain;
(6)
Erotic or lewd touching, fondling or other sexual contact with an animal by a human being; or
(7)
Human excretion or urination upon another human being.
(Ord. of 12-14-2010(1), § 1)
Sec. 4-3. - No alcoholic beverage to be served.
Adult entertainment establishments shall not serve, sell, distribute, nor give any alcoholic beverage to any patron. Nor shall any adult entertainment establishment permit any patron or employee to consume alcoholic beverages or controlled substance upon the licensed premises.
(Ord. of 12-14-2010(1), § 2)
Sec. 4-4. - Advertisement of adult entertainment establishment.
No person or entity shall advertise or cause to be advertised the operation of an adult entertainment establishment without first obtaining a valid adult entertainment establishment license.
(Ord. of 12-14-2010(1), § 3)
Sec. 4-5. - Location.
(a)
No adult entertainment establishment may be located within 1,000 feet of any church building, public or private school, college, or similar institution, library, public park, designated historic district or site, any property zoned for residential use, any business which sells alcohol beverages (pouring licensee or packaged sales licensee), or any building or land owned by a governmental entity.
(b)
Any license issued to an adult entertainment establishment shall be valid only for the single location specified in the application.
(c)
No licensee shall operate, conduct, manage, engage in or carry on an adult entertainment establishment at any other location without first obtaining a license for such other location.
(d)
Any application for an extension or expansion of a building or other place of business where an adult entertainment establishment is located shall require inspection and shall comply with the provisions and regulations of this chapter.
(Ord. of 12-14-2010(1), § 4)
Sec. 4-6. - Erotic dance establishment regulations.
(a)
An erotic dance establishment licensee shall maintain and retain for a period of two years the names, addresses and ages of all persons employed as dancers.
(b)
No adult entertainment establishment licensee shall employ or contract with as a dancer a person under the age of 18 years or a person convicted of any felony.
(c)
An erotic dance establishment may be open only between the hours of 8:00 a.m. and 2:00 a.m., Monday through Saturday. Such establishment shall be closed from Sunday morning at 2:00 a.m. to Monday at 8:00 a.m.
(d)
No erotic dance establishment licensee shall serve, sell, distribute or give any patron any alcoholic beverage; and such establishment may not permit any patron or employee to consume any alcoholic beverage or controlled substance upon the premises of the licensee.
(e)
An adult entertainment establishment licensee shall conspicuously display all licenses required by this chapter.
(f)
All dancing shall occur on a platform intended for that purpose which is raised at least two feet from the level of the floor; no dancing shall occur closer than three feet to any patron.
(g)
No dancer shall fondle or caress any patron.
(h)
All public areas of an establishment licensed under this chapter shall be fully lighted at all times patrons are present, both inside and outside the licensed premises.
(Ord. of 12-14-2010(1), § 5)
Sec. 4-7. - License required.
It shall be unlawful for any person or entity to engage in, conduct or carry on, in or upon any premises within the unincorporated area of the county any adult entertainment establishment as defined in this chapter without a license to do so. No license so issued shall condone or make legal any activity thereunder if the same is deemed illegal or unlawful under the laws of the state or of the United States of America.
(Ord. of 12-14-2010(1), § 6)
Sec. 4-8. - Operation of unlicensed premises unlawful.
It shall be unlawful for any person or entity to operate an adult bookstore, adult dancing establishment, adult motion picture theater, adult motion picture arcade, adult video store, erotic dance establishment, and any similar type of adult entertainment establishment unless such person or entity shall have a currently valid license. No such person or entity shall operate an adult entertainment establishment at any time such establishment's license is under suspension or revoked.
(Ord. of 12-14-2010(1), § 7)
Sec. 4-9. - Admission of minors unlawful.
It shall be unlawful for a licensee to admit or permit the admission of minors within a licensed premises.
(Ord. of 12-14-2010(1), § 8)
Sec. 4-10. - Sales to minors unlawful.
It shall be unlawful for any employee or other person employed by an adult entertainment establishment to sell, barter or give or to offer to sell, barter or give to any minor any service, material, device or thing sold or offered for sale by any adult entertainment establishment.
(Ord. of 12-14-2010(1), § 9)
Sec. 4-11. - Adult entertainment establishment employees.
Employees of an adult entertainment establishment shall be not less than 18 years of age. No adult entertainment establishment may employ anyone who, within the previous five years, has been convicted of any felony offense. Any employee who is convicted of a crime constituting a felony while employed as an adult entertainment establishment employee shall not thereafter work on any licensed premises for a period of five years from the date of such conviction. All licensed adult entertainment establishments shall conduct initial criminal background checks as a condition of employment with the adult entertainment establishment. At least annually, adult entertainment establishments shall conduct followup criminal background checks to ensure its employees are not felons.
(Ord. of 12-14-2010(1), § 10)
Sec. 4-12. - Application for license.
(a)
Any person who is a resident of the county or entity maintaining an office in the county desiring to obtain a license to operate, engage in, conduct or carry on any adult entertainment establishment shall make application to the county manager or his designee. Along with the application, applicant shall deposit a $4,000.00 nonrefundable fee, made payable to McIntosh County. Such fee is to defray, in part, the cost of investigation, reporting, appeals, monitoring activities, and costs of law enforcement work associated with ongoing adult entertainment establishments.
(b)
The application for an adult entertainment establishment license does not authorize the operation of any adult entertainment establishment.
(Ord. of 12-14-2010(1), § 11)
Sec. 4-13. - Application contents.
(a)
Each application for an adult entertainment establishment permit shall contain the following information:
(1)
The full true names of the applicant.
(2)
The present address and telephone number of the applicant.
(3)
All previous addresses and telephone numbers of applicant in the previous five years.
(4)
Acceptable written proof that the applicant is at least 18 years of age.
(5)
Business, occupation and employment history of the applicant for the five years immediately preceding the date of application.
(6)
The true full names, addresses, and telephone numbers of any and all interest holders, owners, partners, members, managers, shareholders, directors, and officers of any other entity which has an interest in the proposed adult entertainment establishment or its proposed license.
(7)
The applicant must state whether such applicant, in previous operations in this or any other city, state or territory, has had any license or permit for an adult entertainment business or similar type of business revoked or suspended. If so, the applicant must state the reason for such suspension or revocation.
(8)
Applicants shall state all felony convictions, misdemeanor convictions (excluding minor traffic offenses; but including all drug offenses), and ordinance violation of the applicant and all interest holders of any entity or person who owns or presently intends to own any portion of the proposed adult entertainment establishment. For each conviction or violation, applicant must state the dates and places of any such conviction or violation.
(9)
If the applicant has formed an entity through the secretary of State of Georgia, or of any other state, application must state the name of the entity exactly as shown in its articles of such entity.
(10)
The names and addresses of the owner and lessor of the real property upon which the business is to be conducted and a copy of the lease or rental agreement.
(11)
Such other identification and information as the county sheriff or his designee may require in order to discover or verify the information in the application.
(12)
If the applicant, any partner, any member, any manager, any stockholder, or any other interest holder of the entity which proposes to operate an adult entertainment establishment has been convicted of any felony in the five-year period preceding the application, then a complete description of any such crime, including date of violation, date of conviction, jurisdiction and any disposition shall be furnished to the county with the application.
(13)
If the applicant is a person doing business under a trade name, a copy of the trade name properly recorded. If the applicant is a corporation, a copy of authority to do business in the state, including articles of incorporation, trade name affidavit, if any, and last annual renewal.
(14)
At least three character references from individuals who are in no way related to the applicant and who are not or will not benefit financially in any way from the application if the license is granted and who have not been convicted of any felony in the past five years.
(15)
Address of the premises to be licensed.
(16)
A plat prepared by a state-registered land surveyor showing the location of the proposed premises in relation to the neighborhood, the surrounding zoning, its proximity to any church, school, public park, governmental building or site, any business licensed to sell alcoholic beverages, any historic district or site, any real property zoned for residential use, and the proximity to any other restricted site or zoning classification.
(17)
Each application for an adult entertainment establishment license shall be verified and acknowledged under oath to be true and correct by:
a.
If the applicant is an individual, the individual;
b.
If by a partnership, by the manager or general partner;
c.
If a corporation, by the president of the corporation;
d.
If a limited liability company, by its manager; and
e.
If any other organization or association, by the chief administrative official.
(b)
The county manager shall prepare an application in such format to obtain all information required in this section.
(Ord. of 12-14-2010(1), § 12)
Sec. 4-14. - Applicant to appear.
The applicant shall personally appear before the county manager and produce proof that the nonrefundable application fee has been paid, and shall personally present the application containing the aforementioned and described verified information.
(Ord. of 12-14-2010(1), § 13)
Sec. 4-15. - Application; investigation.
Once the applicant has provided all of the information required herein and has paid the nonrefundable application fee, the county shall have 45 days to investigate the application and the background of the applicant. Upon completion of the investigation, the county manager may grant the license if he finds:
(1)
The required fee has been paid;
(2)
The application conforms in all respects to the provisions of this chapter;
(3)
The applicant has not knowingly made a material misrepresentation in the application;
(4)
The applicant has fully cooperated in the investigation of his application;
(5)
The applicant and all interest holders as stated hereinabove have not been convicted in a court of competent jurisdiction of any felony in the previous five years;
(6)
The applicant has not had an adult entertainment establishment license or other similar license or permit suspended or revoked for cause by this county or any other city or county located in or out of this state;
(7)
The building, structure, equipment or location of such business as proposed by the applicant would comply with all applicable laws, including but not limited to health, zoning, distance, fire and safety requirements and standards;
(8)
The applicant is at least 21 years of age;
(9)
That the proposed premises is not to be located within 1,000 feet to any church, school, library, governmental building or site, business which sells alcoholic beverages (pouring license or packaged sales), property zoned for residential use, any designated historic district or site, or any other site restricted hereunder;
(10)
That the grant of such license will not cause a violation of this chapter or any other ordinance or regulations of the county, state or the United States; and
(11)
Any other inquiry deemed necessary or desirable by the county to ensure the health, safety and welfare of the citizens of the county and the preservation of its neighborhoods.
(Ord. of 12-14-2010(1), § 14)
Sec. 4-16. - Persons prohibited as licensees.
No license provided for by this chapter shall be issued to or held by:
(1)
An applicant who has not paid all required fees and property taxes and other indebtedness to the county;
(2)
Any person who has been convicted of a felony within the previous five years; or
(3)
Any entity, any of whose interest holders have been convicted of a felony within the previous five years.
(Ord. of 12-14-2010(1), § 15)
Sec. 4-17. - License—Refusal; appeal.
Following the receipt of a complete application and fee, and following the investigation by the county, if the county manager deems that the applicant does not fulfill the requirements as set forth in this chapter, he shall notify the applicant in writing at the address furnished by the applicant, by certified mail, return receipt requested. Any such denial notification shall be deemed received on the date indicated on the return receipt; and if the same is not accepted or signed for, it shall be deemed received on the third day following the day the notification was mailed.
(Ord. of 12-14-2010(1), § 16)
Sec. 4-18. - Same—Renewal.
Licenses for adult entertainment establishments may be renewed on a calendar year basis, provided that the licensee continues to meet the requirements set out in this chapter. The renewal fees for the adult entertainment establishment license shall be $2,500.00.
(Ord. of 12-14-2010(1), § 17)
Sec. 4-19. - Same—Nontransferable.
No adult entertainment establishment license may be sold, transferred or assigned by a licensee, or by operation of law, to any other person or persons. Any such sale, transfer or assignment or attempted sale, transfer or assignment shall be deemed to constitute a voluntary surrender of such license, and such permit shall thereafter be null and void.
(Ord. of 12-14-2010(1), § 18)
Sec. 4-20. - Same—Suspension or revocation.
(a)
Any licensee who violates any provision of this chapter is subject to suspension or revocation of its adult entertainment establishment license. The county manager shall notify any licensee of an alleged violation of this chapter. The county's notice to the licensee shall state the grounds of the alleged violation and shall be mailed to the licensee, at the address noted on the licensee's application, by certified mail, return receipt requested. The county manager shall notify the licensee of the time, date, and location to appear to before the county manager to answer to the allegations of violation.
(b)
After the county manager and licensee meet regarding the violation, the county manager shall propose a warning, suspension, or revocation of the licensee, which shall be in writing. The licensee may appeal the determination of the county manager by making an appeal to the board of commissioners in the same manner and procedures as appeals of denials of application as stated hereinbelow.
(c)
The county manager shall place the appeal on the agenda of the next regular board of commissioners' meeting occurring not less than seven nor more than 45 days after receipt of the appeal. The county manager shall notify the applicant or licensee of the date, time, and location of the board meeting at which the appeal will be presented to the board.
(Ord. of 12-14-2010(1), § 19)
Sec. 4-21. - Appeal—Procedure.
(a)
Any applicant who is denied a permit may appeal such denial to the county board of commissioners within 30 days of receipt of the written denial. Any appeal must be in writing, addressed to the board of commissioners, and served by certified mail, return receipt requested.
(b)
The applicant's notice of appeal shall be addressed to the chairman, McIntosh County board of commissioners. Such notice shall specify the subject matter of the appeal, the date of any original and amended application (or requests), the date of the adverse decision (or receipt of notice thereof), the basis of the appeal, the action requested of the county board of commissioners, and the name and address of the applicant and all person who will appear or testify before the board of commissioners.
(c)
The county manager shall place the appeal on the agenda of the next regular board of commissioners' meeting occurring not less than seven nor more than 45 days after receipt of the appeal. The county manager shall notify the applicant or licensee of the date, time, and location of the board meeting at which the appeal will be presented to the board.
(Ord. of 12-14-2010(1), § 20)
Sec. 4-22. - Same—Board determines procedure.
(a)
When an appeal is placed on the board of commissioners' agenda, the board shall either:
(1)
Hear the appeal; or
(2)
Appoint a hearing officer who shall hear evidence and make a recommendation to the board of commissioners.
(b)
If the board of commissioners appoints a hearing officer to receive evidence and make recommendations, then the county manager shall notify the applicant/licensee of the time, date, location, and name of the hearing officer.
(Ord. of 12-14-2010(1), § 21)
Sec. 4-23. - Hearing.
The county board of commissioners (or hearing officer) shall receive all relevant testimony and evidence from the applicant or licensee, from interested parties, from relevant law enforcement, and from county staff. The board of commissioners may sustain, overrule or modify the action complained of and the decisions of the county manager or hearing officer.
(Ord. of 12-14-2010(1), § 22)
Sec. 4-24. - Rules of evidence inapplicable.
The board of commissioners or hearing officer shall not be bound by the traditional rules of evidence in hearings conducted under this chapter. Rules of evidence as applied in an administrative hearing shall apply.
(Ord. of 12-14-2010(1), § 23)
Sec. 4-25. - Hearing officer's report.
(a)
If a hearing officer is appointed, the hearing officer shall, within a reasonable time not to exceed 30 days from the date such hearing is terminated, submit a written report to the board. Such report shall contain a brief summary of the evidence considered and state findings, conclusions and recommendations. All such reports shall be filed with the county manager and shall be mailed to the applicant/licensee by certified mail, return receipt requested.
(b)
The county manager shall place the hearing officer's report on the agenda of the next regular board meeting occurring not less than seven days after the report is filed and shall notify the licensee/appellant of the date of such meeting at least seven days prior to the meeting unless the licensee/appellant stipulates to a shorter notice period.
(Ord. of 12-14-2010(1), § 24)
Sec. 4-26. - Action by board of commissioners.
The board of commissioners may adopt or reject the hearing officer's decision in its entirety or may modify the proposed recommendation. If the board does not adopt the hearing officer's recommendation, it may decide the case upon a review of the entire record before the hearing officer with or without taking additional evidence.
(Ord. of 12-14-2010(1), § 25)
Sec. 4-27. - Violations; penalty.
Any person violating the provisions of this chapter shall be guilty of a misdemeanor, punishable by a fine not to exceed $1,000.00 per violation or by imprisonment for a period not to exceed six months, or by both such fine and imprisonment. In addition to such fine or imprisonment, violation of this chapter shall also be grounds for immediate suspension or revocation of the license issued hereunder. Each day that a violation exist constitutes a new and separate offense.
(Ord. of 12-14-2010(1), § 26)
Sec. 4-28. - Unlawful operation declared nuisance.
Any adult entertainment establishment operated, conducted or maintained contrary to the provisions of this chapter shall be and the same is hereby declared to be unlawful and a public nuisance. The county may, in addition to or in lieu of prosecuting a criminal action hereunder, commence proceedings for abatement, removal or enjoinment thereof in the manner provided by law. It shall take such other steps and shall apply to such court as may have jurisdiction to grant such relief as will abate or remove the nuisance caused by such adult entertainment establishment, and restrain and enjoin any person from operating, conducting or maintaining an adult entertainment establishment contrary to the provisions of this chapter.
(Ord. of 12-14-2010(1), § 27)
Sec. 4-29. - Nonapplicability.
This chapter is not intended to make unlawful and shall not be enforced against those persons and entities which offer for sale:
(1)
Nude magazines and similar publications which articles do not occupy more than five percent of the business' total floor space nor make up more than five percent of the business' net sales;
(2)
Adult videos and similar media which articles do not occupy more than five percent of the business' total floor space nor make up more than five percent of the business' net sales and rentals; and
(3)
Mainstream performance theater or auditorium which regularly features live performances such as plays or concerts which are not distinguished or characterized by an emphasis on the depiction, description, display, or the featuring of specified anatomical areas or specified sexual activities, and where such depiction is only incidental to the primary purpose of the performance.
(Ord. of 12-14-2010(1), § 28)
