ARTICLE VI. - FINANCE
DIVISION 1. - GENERALLY

Secs. 2-239—2-269. - Reserved.
DIVISION 2. - PURCHASING

Sec. 2-270. - Purpose; responsibilities of county manager.
(a)
The purpose of this policy is to provide guidance to personnel engaged in the purchasing process throughout the county so as to provide for an efficient and fiscally responsible system for procurement. The highest quality material or goods at the best possible price can only be secured if all departments are aware of, and engaged in proper policies and procedures.
(b)
Responsibilities of the county manager include:
(1)
The purchase and distribution of supplies, materials, property, equipment and inventory pursuant to ordinances, policies and procedures established by the board of commissioners and in accordance with this article and the laws of the state;
(2)
The establishment of reliable and reputable sources of supply;
(3)
The fostering of competition and good procurement practices while giving consideration to value and price; and
(4)
The handling of all negotiations with the highest ethical and fiscal standards.
(Ord. of 6-14-1994, § 1)
Sec. 2-271. - Nondiscrimination clause.
It is the policy of the county to offer equal opportunities to all persons regardless of race, color, age, sex, religion or national origin. All county employees and agents are to take every step necessary to ensure that there is no such prohibited discrimination in any aspect of the county's purchasing function.
(Ord. of 6-14-1994, § 2)
Sec. 2-272. - Ethics in purchasing.
All county employees, both elected and appointed, will adhere to strict ethical standards when purchasing materials. Any employee with a financial interest in a private business is discouraged from bidding on county projects. The county will not purchase equipment, materials and supplies from businesses in which county employees have a financial interest, unless there is a compelling meritorious reason to the contrary as determined by the board of commissioners.
(Ord. of 6-14-1994, § 3)
Sec. 2-273. - Vendor list.
The county clerk will maintain a file of all vendors desiring to do business with the county. Persons or businesses wishing to be added to the vendors list will submit a written request to the county clerk. The application will be submitted and signed by the principal as distinguished from an agent. Any business not responding to requests for bids for over a period of one year may be eliminated from the vendor list, but are eligible for reinstatement upon request.
(Ord. of 6-14-1994, § 4)
Sec. 2-274. - Vendors in default.
Any person, corporation or other entity in default to the county for any ad valorem taxes, license fees or other taxes, assessments or fees which are not the subject of an appeal to a court or other legal tribunal shall not be permitted to bid on any proposed purchase by the county or shall not be awarded any contract with the county unless they shall first assign to the county all or so much of the price of such purchase or the proceeds of such contract as will pay the existing default in full.
(Ord. of 6-14-1994, § 5)
Sec. 2-275. - Request for qualifications.
A request for qualifications (RFQ) document may be sent to firms interested in providing professional services such as architectural or other consulting services. Respondents will be requested to indicate their interest in the project, specific, relevant, and comparable experience, and their ability to perform the services requested. The request will be advertised in order that any firm interested in submitting a proposal will have adequate time to do so.
(Ord. of 6-14-1994, § 6)
Sec. 2-276. - Method of advertising.
Only the county manager or the county clerk will receive bids for any material, equipment and supplies. Bids may be solicited by a variety of methods which include direct mail request, by telephone to prospective vendors or through newspaper advertisement. Notice inviting sealed bids will be published as needed in the official newspaper in the county. The newspaper notice will include a general description of the articles to be purchased or sold, will state the location of where bid specifications may be secured, and the date, time and place the bid opening will occur.
(Ord. of 6-14-1994, § 7)
Sec. 2-277. - State bidding requirements.
Any persons engaged in purchasing on behalf of the county will comply with all applicable sections of the state statutes as well as any other pertinent legislation.
(Ord. of 6-14-1994, § 8)
Sec. 2-278. - Pre-bid conferences.
A pre-bid conference to clarify advertised specifications for prospective responsive bidders may be convened between the date of advertisement and the actual bid opening date.
(Ord. of 6-14-1994, § 9)
Sec. 2-279. - Bids and quotations.
(a)
Competitive bids will be taken on all items other than recurring purchases (e.g., professional services, utilities and state contract purchases) and those of sole source procurement in order to ensure open and competitive bidding on all county purchases. Bid specifications will be prepared in such a manner as to invite and encourage bidding from all suppliers of goods and equipment being purchased by the county.
(b)
Only the county manager or the county clerk will secure competitive bids in the form of telephone quotes, written quotes, or sealed bids. The type of bid will be determined by the dollar amount set forth in this article.
(Ord. of 6-14-1994, § 10)
Sec. 2-280. - Performance bonds, bid bonds and other instruments.
In accordance with state law, county officials involved in the letting of construction projects will ascertain the financial solvency of any bonding company offering bonds.
(1)
Performance bonds. The county manager will have the authority to require a performance bond, before entering a contract, in such amount as is reasonably necessary to protect the best interests of the county, or whenever such bond is required under the laws of the state. Notice of a bond requirement shall be included in the public notice and bidding specifications. The bond will not exceed 100 percent of the bid amount.
(2)
Bid bonds. Bid bonds will be required in the amount of five percent of the proposed bid quotation as prescribed by state law on all public works bids. The county may also require bid bonds whenever it is deemed to be in the county's best interest for other projects or services. Legitimate substitutes such as cashier or certified checks may be accepted in lieu of bid bonds with the county receiving any interest accrued.
(3)
Personal or company checks. Personal or company checks are not valid substitutes for a bid bond or performance bond.
(Ord. of 6-14-1994, § 11)
Sec. 2-281. - Total cost bidding.
The county may consider the guaranteed delivery, maintenance and operating costs as well as the guaranteed resale or buy back price of equipment at established time intervals when purchasing equipment. This method of bidding is generally reserved for capital heavy equipment costing in excess of $50,000.00.
(Ord. of 6-14-1994, § 12)
Sec. 2-282. - Sealed bid opening.
Sealed bids will be opened publicly in the presence of one or more witnesses at the date, time and place stated in the invitation for bids. The name of each bidder, the amount of each bid and other such information as the county manager deems appropriate will be recorded. All bids will be open for public inspection. Improper, unresponsive or incorrect bids will not be accepted.
(Ord. of 6-14-1994, § 13)
Sec. 2-283. - Bid awards.
All contracts and/or purchase awards will be made to the vendor whose quotation is most advantageous to the county. If awarded to other than the low bidder, the reason for such action shall be written and filed with the related purchase documents. Professional services may be awarded to the firm judged by the board of commissioners to be the best qualified even though not the lowest bidder.
(Ord. of 6-14-1994, § 14)
Sec. 2-284. - Rejection of bids or quotations.
The county manager is hereby given the authority to reject all bids when, in his opinion, such action is in the county's best interest. The county manager may further direct that the proposal be re-bid should it be determined that such action is in the county's best interest. The exercise of the authority given the county manager in this section requires the approval of the board of commissioners on any unbudgeted purchase over $5,000.00.
(Ord. of 6-14-1994, § 16)
Sec. 2-285. - Purchasing policy; authorization levels.
(a)
All purchases must be approved by the department head, the county clerk and the county manager. Further approval may be necessary depending on circumstances.
(1)
Purchases for which funds are budgeted must be approved if $500.00 or over. Purchases less than $500.00 (if budgeted) will not require the approval of the county manager. The department director will inform the county manager that a budgeted purchase of less than $500.00 is needed and a purchase order will be issued, subject to availability of funds.
(2)
Purchases for which no funds have ever been budgeted but where funding can be made available by transferring funds within the budget of the involved department may be made if the transfer is approved by the county manager, and will not require additional approval unless it exceeds the total budget for a given office.
(3)
Purchases for which funds have been budgeted and the budgeted funds are exhausted may be made by transferring available funds within the budget of the involved department from some other object account if the transfer is approved. Such transfer must be approved by the county manager.
(4)
In the event that an emergency should arise after office hours, which emergency requires immediate action on the part of the county's department director involved for the protection of the best interest of the county, or should such a situation arise on a Saturday, Sunday or holiday and where it is not possible or convenient to reach the county manager, any necessary purchase up to $2,500.00 may be made by the department director. The purchase shall be reported to the county manager without delay.
(b)
All purchases must be approved by the department director or in his absence, a designee, the county clerk and the county manager in written form.
(Ord. of 6-14-1994, § 18)
Sec. 2-286. - Purchasing during a declared emergency.
(a)
In the event of a declared state of emergency, the county manager or board of commissioners may suspend all or any part of this purchasing policy.
(b)
The Federal Emergency Management Agency (FEMA) will reimburse a portion of all expenses incurred during a Presidentially-declared emergency. In order to apply for this reimbursement, meticulous records must be maintained. Virtually all expenses, except those that would have occurred had there been no emergency, will be reimbursed. The current reimbursement rate is 75 percent federal and 25 percent state.
(Ord. of 6-14-1994, § 19)
Sec. 2-287. - Annual bids; price agreement contracts.
Whenever most advantageous to the county, long-term contracts or blanket purchase agreements should be obtained for materials used by one or more departments on a regular and continuing basis. The contract will cover a specified period of time and will show a price for the goods and services which will be valid for the contract period. Contracts or purchase agreements would extend no longer than a one-year period and will be subject to the applicable bidding or quotation requirements as for any other purchase.
(1)
Oral telephone quotes. Two quotes will be secured and memorialized in writing by the recipient for all purchases exceeding $5,000.00 but less than $10,000.00.
(2)
Written quotes. Three written quotes will be secured for all purchases exceeding $10,000.00.
(3)
Sealed bids. Sealed bids based on written specifications must be secured for all purchases exceeding $25,000.00.
All quotes will be documented as to the vendor, amount quoted, description and specification of the product, contact person and delivery costs and date.
(Ord. of 6-14-1994, § 20)
Sec. 2-288. - Sole-source purchasing.
The county manager may, subject to purchasing authorization levels, designate a sole source for the purchase of any item or service due to special scientific technology, extraordinary specifications, compatibility with existing equipment, or when circumstances of competition is deemed inadequate. A memorandum documenting the reason for the sole source purchase will be maintained in the files.
(Ord. of 6-14-1994, § 21)
Sec. 2-289. - State contract purchases.
Whenever any item or service which meets all county requirements is available through a contract with the state and is offered to local governments, the item or service may be purchased from the state contract when it can be demonstrated to be lower in price than local bidding or advantageous to operational efficiency.
(Ord. of 6-14-1994, § 22)
Sec. 2-290. - Recurring purchases.
Goods received or used on an ongoing, expected basis such as utility bills, travel, seminar and conference fees, membership dues, subscription costs and payments made under the terms of a previously approved contract, will be handled without the issuance of a purchase order. The county manager will pre-approve all vendors and the type purchases which will qualify. In most instances, the purchase price will be determined in advance with quantity based on need. Each department will verify that billings are a true representation of goods and services received and that sufficient funds are available to cover the recurring expense.
(Ord. of 6-14-1994, § 23)
Sec. 2-291. - Local vendors.
Equal opportunity will be afforded to all vendors who desire to supply materials and service as needed by the county. In all phases, efforts will be made to obtain quotations or bids from local vendors, and all factors being equal, the award will be made to a vendor having an established place of business in the county, but solicitation of bids is not restricted to the county vendors.
(Ord. of 6-14-1994, § 24)
Sec. 2-292. - Product standardization.
(a)
Materials, supplies and equipment purchased by the county on a regular basis will be standardized as much as possible in an effort to purchase goods and services at the best possible prices. Purchases will be made through the use of standard specifications whenever possible. Each standard specification will apply in terms and effect to the purchase or contract for the item or service described in the specification. However, if any item requested by a department is not on the standard list or listed as an exemption, the county manager is authorized to exempt the item if sufficient justification in writing is provided by the requesting department.
(b)
If a requisition is submitted for a brand name item or service, the county manager will notify the requesting department of acceptable and approved like items or services which meet the specification requirements.
(Ord. of 6-14-1994, § 25)
Sec. 2-293. - Surplus stock.
All departments will submit to the county manager on an annual basis in such form as prescribed, reports reflecting stocks of all supplies which are no longer used or which have become obsolete, worn out, or scrapped. The county manager may transfer surplus stock to other departments or may sell all supplies which have become unsuitable for public use, or to exchange the same for, or trade-in the same on, new supplies. Sale will be made to the highest responsible bidder at public auction.
(Ord. of 6-14-1994, § 26)
Sec. 2-294. - Petty cash fund.
The county manager is given the authority to allow certain departments the use of a petty cash fund not to exceed $100.00. This fund will be used for purchases not to exceed $25.00. The petty cash fund will be reimbursed based upon sales receipts reflecting proper authorization and account codes.
(Ord. of 6-14-1994, § 27)
Sec. 2-295. - Authorization for payment.
All checks and electronic financial transactions shall be authorized by both the county manager and the clerk of the board of commissioners. In the absence of the county manager, the chairman or vice-chairman shall be authorized to sign.
Sec. 2-296. - Authorization for changes in county ad valorem tax digest.
The county manager shall be authorized, upon the receipt of a sworn affidavit from the taxpayer indicating that the change is true and correct, to acknowledge, on behalf of the board of commissioners, that the tax commissioner has made a change to the county ad valorem tax digest. No further approval shall be required after the tax commissioner has recommended same.
DIVISION 3. - GENERAL FUND RESERVE FUND POLICY

Sec. 2-297. - Authority.
The chairman and the board of commissioners are responsible for legislation, policy formulation, and overall direction setting of the government. This includes the approval of financial policies which establish and direct the operations of McIntosh County. The county manager is responsible for carrying out the policy directives of the board of commissioners and managing the day-to-day operations of the executive departments, including the department of financial administration. This policy shall be administered on behalf of the county manager by the financial administration department.
(Ord. of 08-08-2017(1))
Sec. 2-298. - Purpose.
The county desires to maintain a prudent level of financial resources to guard its stakeholders against service disruption in the event of unexpected temporary revenue shortfalls or unpredicted one-time expenditures. In addition, this policy is intended to document the appropriate reserve level to protect the county's credit worthiness. The general fund operating reserves are accumulated and maintained to provide stability and flexibility to respond to unexpected adversity and/or opportunities.
This policy establishes the amounts the county will strive to maintain in its general fund operating reserve, how the reserve will be funded, and the conditions under which the reserve may be used.
(Ord. of 08-08-2017(1))
Sec. 2-299. - Applicability and scope.
This policy shall apply to the general fund.
(Ord. of 08-08-2017(1))
Sec. 2-300. - Definitions and acronyms.
Capital improvement plan (CIP). A plan that describes the capital projects and associated funding sources the county intends to undertake in the current year plus five additional future years, including the acquisition or construction of capital facilities and assets, and the maintenance thereof.
Cash balance. The sum of cash and the cash equivalents of an accounting fund.
Cash equivalent. In the context of cash flows reporting, short term, highly liquid investments that are both:
(1)
Readily convertible to known amounts of cash; and
(2)
So near their maturity that they present insignificant risk of changes in value because of changes in interest rates. Generally, only investments with original maturities of three months or less meet this definition. For this purpose, "original maturity" means maturity as of the date the investment is acquired.
Fund balance. Fund balance is the difference between:
(1)
Assets and deferred outflows of resources; and
(2)
Liabilities and deferred inflows of resources in a governmental fund.
General fund is one of five governmental fund types. The general fund typically serves as the chief operating fund of a government. The general fund is used to account for all financial resources not accounted for in some other fund.
Investment income or expenditure is allocated to the various funds based on their respective participation and in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles.
Non-recurring item. An expenditure that has not occurred in the previous two years and is not expected to occur in the following year.
Pooled cash. The sum of unrestricted cash and investments of several accounting funds that are consolidated for cash management and investment purposes.
Reserve. Reserve refers only to the portion of fund balance that is intended to provide stability and respond to unplanned events or opportunities.
Unassigned fund balance. The difference between total fund balance in a governmental fund and its nonspendable, restricted, committed, and assigned components.
(Ord. of 08-08-2017(1))
Sec. 2-301. - Reserve levels.
The county will maintain a minimum level of unassigned fund balance in the general fund equivalent to three months of regular, on-going operating expenditures (including transfers out). The county will measure its compliance with this policy as of September 30th of each year, as soon as practical after final year end account information becomes available. During the course of the year, the financial administration department shall closely monitor the county's revenues and expenditures to ensure reserves are not used beyond any planned allocations. For the purpose of this policy, current year's actual expenditures will exclude significant non-recurring items.
If based on staff's analysis and forecasting, the target level of reserves is not being met or is not likely to be met at some point within a five-year time horizon, then during the annual budget process, fund balance levels will be provided to the chairman and board of commissioners. Should the projected year-end fund balance be below the minimum reserve amount established by this policy, a plan to replenish the reserve would be established based on the requirements outlined in this policy.
(Ord. of 08-08-2017(1))
Sec. 2-302. - Cash balance.
In order to provide liquidity adequate to meet the needs and demands of providing government services including unanticipated reductions in revenues or unplanned increases in expenditures, cash balances will be maintained and managed through the pooled cash method in such a way as to minimize short-term borrowing. This reduces overall cost to taxpayers by minimizing interest expense. The three month reserve is intended to support this effort and counterbalance the tax collection cycle.
(Ord. of 08-08-2017(1))
Sec. 2-303. - Funding the reserve.
Funding of general fund reserve targets will generally come from excess revenues over expenditures or one time revenues.
(Ord. of 08-08-2017(1))
Sec. 2-304. - Conditions for use of reserves.
It is the intent of the county to limit use of general fund reserves to address unanticipated, non-recurring needs. Reserves shall not normally be applied to recurring annual operating expenditures. Reserves may, however, be used to allow time for the county to restructure its operations in a deliberate manner (as might be required in an economic downturn), but such use will only take place in the context of an adopted long term plan.
(Ord. of 08-08-2017(1))
Sec. 2-305. - Authority of reserves.
The board of commissioners may authorize the use of reserves. The financial administration department will regularly report both current and projected reserve levels to the board of commissioners.
(Ord. of 08-08-2017(1))
Sec. 2-306. - Assigning fund balance.
The county manager and the financial administration department collectively, are hereby authorized to assign fund balance for specific purposes in accordance with the intent and actions of the board of commissioners.
(Ord. of 08-08-2017(1))
Sec. 2-307. - Replenishment of reserves.
In the event that reserves are used resulting in a balance below the three months minimum, a plan will be developed and included in the formulation of the five-year forecast presented during the annual budget process.
(Ord. of 08-08-2017(1))
Sec. 2-308. - Excess of revenues.
In the event reserves exceed the minimum balance requirements, at the end of each fiscal year, any excess reserves may be used in the following ways:
(1)
Fund accrued liabilities, including but not limited to debt service, pension, and other post-employment benefits as directed and approved within the long term financial plan and the annual budget resolution. Priority will be given to those items that relieve budget or financial operating pressure in future periods;
(2)
Appropriated to lower the amount of bonds or contributions needed to fund capital projects in the county's CIP;
(3)
One-time expenditures that do not increase recurring operating costs that cannot be funded through current revenues. Emphasis will be placed on one-time uses that reduce future operating costs; or
(4)
Startup expenditures for new programs, provided that such action is approved by the board of commissioners and is considered in the context of multi-year projections of revenues and expenditures as prepared by the financial administration department.
(Ord. of 08-08-2017(1))
Sec. 2-309. - Periodic review of the targets.
At a minimum, during the budget process, staff shall review the current and five-year projected reserves to ensure that they are appropriate given the economic and financial risk factors the county is subject to.
(Ord. of 08-08-2017(1))
Sec. 2-310. - Quality control and quality assurance.
It is the responsibility of the finance administration to ensure the presence of procedures that provide sufficient guidance to affected County personnel to fulfill the intent of this policy. These policies will be reviewed at least annually and updated on an as-needed basis.
(Ord. of 08-08-2017(1))
