ARTICLE IV. - BOARDS AND COMMISSIONS
DIVISION 1. - BOARDS, COMMISSIONS, AUTHORITIES, AND ADVISORY COMMITTEES APPOINTMENT POLICY[2]

Footnotes:
--- (2) ---
Editor's note— An ordinance adopted April 14,2020, changed the title of div. 1 from "generally" to "boards, commissions, authorities, and advisory committees appointment policy."

Sec. 2-120. - Boards created.
There are hereby created the following boards with the powers and limitations provided for under state law. The members of these boards shall be appointed by the county board of commissioners, and the responsibilities and duties of these boards shall be as established by the county board of commissioners.
McIntosh County Industrial Development Authority Board
McIntosh County Board of Health
McIntosh County Board of Elections
McIntosh County Board of Tax Assessors
McIntosh County DFCS Board
Ida Hilton Library Board
Gateway Community Service Board 1
Coastal Regional Commission 1
1 Multicounty entity
Sec. 2-121. - Mission.
modified
It is the mission of the appointment policy to provide an opportunity for qualified individuals to be made aware of the opportunities to serve on various boards, commissions, authorities, and advisory committees to all structured and professional process to seek such appointments.
(Ord. of 4-14-2020(1); Ord. of 12-8-2020)
Sec. 2-122. - Purpose.
modified
The purpose of this policy is to establish a procedure to facilitate the notification, announcement, and selection for appointments to boards, commissions, authorities, and advisory committees by the Board of Commissioners of McIntosh County. This policy shall apply to the following county boards:
McIntosh County Industrial Development Authority
McIntosh County Board of Health
McIntosh County Board of Tax Assessors
McIntosh County DFCS Board
McIntosh County Zoning Board
McIntosh County Zoning Appeals Board
McIntosh County Recreation Board
McIntosh County Historic Preservation Commission
Ida Hilton Library Board of Trustees
Wiregrass E-911 Board
Coastal Regional Commission Non-Public Appointment * Appointment must be approved by the City of Darien and McIntosh County
(Ord. of 4-14-2020(1); Ord. of 12-8-2020)
Sec. 2-123. - Goal.
modified
It is the goal of the county's appointment policy to ensure that all citizens are aware of opportunities to serve, have a professional and structured process through which to seek appointments, to select qualified individuals who have a willingness and desire to serve and to ensure diversity in the make-up of the entities.
(Ord. of 4-14-2020(1); Ord. of 12-8-2020)
Sec. 2-124. - Effective date.
modified
This policy and procedure shall become effective upon its adoption.
(Ord. of 4-14-2020(1); Ord. of 12-8-2020)
Sec. 2-125. - Procedure.
modified
(a)
The county clerk, as the official keeper of the record, shall be responsible for maintenance and keeping current all boards, commissions authorities, and committees vacancies.
(b)
The county clerk shall be responsible for the notification and announcement of pending vacancies.
(c)
the county attorney shall monitor the legal and legislative changes and keep the board of commissioners informed on requirements relative to the structure, form, and function of boards, commissions, authorities, and committees.
(d)
An application should be submitted by those seeking appointment or reappointment to a board, commission, authority, or committee. Applications will be retained and considered for three years by the county clerk once the board of commissioners has made the appointment(s) to the advertised vacancy.
(e)
At least 45 days prior to a vacancy occurring, the county clerk shall release via ads in the legal organ, county website and any other available means, the vacancy or vacancies, and qualifications as applicable. Notice shall also be given to the members of the county commission at this time.
(f)
Interested parties should contact the county clerk and submit the application and supporting documentation, including the code of ethics signature sheet and authorization to conduct a criminal background check.
(g)
Persons desiring to fill vacancies on boards, commissions, authorities, or committees shall be residents of McIntosh County. Specific information regarding each entity and any special qualification, skill or knowledge specific to any position can be found on the county's website: www.mcintoshcountyga.com or in the county clerk's office.
(h)
The county clerk will present to the board of commissioners, the applications received for open appointments at least one week before the commission meeting in which the appointments are on the agenda.
(i)
The board of commissioners shall evaluate the credentials of the persons applying for the appointment and in some cases may interview applicants. Any board, commission, authority or committee may be asked to review the applications and make a recommendation. Any recommendation will be considered but ultimately the appointment is chosen by the board of commissioners.
(j)
The board shall appoint a candidate from the names submitted or may postpone any action until the next regular meeting of the board of commissioners.
(k)
Appointments by the board of commissioners will be made by majority vote election process.
(l)
The selected candidate(s) will be informed of the board of commissioners' decision in writing by the county clerk.
(m)
each board, commission, authority, and committee shall submit monthly minutes of the official proceedings of the entity to the county clerk. The minutes shall be submitted within 30 days of the date of approval by the respective entity.
(n)
Appointments are made for one term. Anyone currently serving and wishes to continue to serve must contact the county clerk and fill out a new application. Any reappointment of application for a subsequent term is at the discretion of the board of commissioners.
(o)
No person shall serve on more than one county board, commission, authority, or committee at one time. No county commissioner shall serve on boards, commissions, authorities, or committees in which the county contributes funding unless it is a state or regional board that requires a commissioner to serve as stated in its by-laws.
(p)
Each board, commission, authority, and committee shall submit to the county clerk in January of each year an annual schedule of regular meetings for each calendar year. The county clerk will coordinate with appropriate staff to advertise the schedule of meetings and to post the schedule on www.mcintoshcountyga.com .
(Ord. of 4-14-2020(1); Ord. of 12-8-2020)
Secs. 2-126—2-136. - Reserved.
DIVISION 2. - LEISURE SERVICES BOARD

Sec. 2-137. - Created.
The leisure services board is an organization and agency of the county created and vested by law with powers granted to similar agencies under the laws of the state.
(Ord. of 1-10-1978(1), art. I, § 1)
Sec. 2-138. - Purposes.
The purposes of the leisure services board are as follows:
(1)
To provide, establish, maintain and conduct a county public leisure service program;
(2)
To participate actively in local, state and national leisure/recreation affairs;
(3)
To educate the citizens of the county by dissemination among them information concerning development and progress of the leisure services.
(Ord. of 1-10-1978(1), art. II, § 1)
Sec. 2-139. - Membership.
The board shall consist of seven members each of whom shall be resident citizens of the county, and who shall serve without pay; the terms of office of the board members shall be five years, or until their successors are appointed and qualified, except that the members of such board first appointed shall be appointed for such terms that the term of one member shall expire annually thereafter; the board members shall be appointed by the chair of the county commission pursuant to the direction of O.C.G.A. § 36-64-5.
(Ord. of 1-10-1978(1), art. III, § 1)
Sec. 2-140. - Powers of board.
The board is empowered to provide, establish, maintain and conduct playgrounds, athletic fields, recreational centers and other recreational activities and facilities, to maintain and equip playgrounds athletic fields, recreation centers, buildings and facilities, to employ play leaders, playground directors, supervisors, or such other officers and employees as it deems necessary and proper. The board shall also have the power to adopt by laws and rules and regulations for the proper conduct of public recreation for the county. Said board shall have the power to conduct any form of recreation or cultural activity that will employ the leisure time of the people of the community in a constructive and wholesome manner, and for such purposes are empowered to carry on such purposes are empowered to carry on such facilities and activities on any of the properties owned or controlled by the county, with consent of the governing officials, or on other properties as may be lawful and proper.
(Ord. of 1-10-1978(1), art. IV, § 1)
Sec. 2-141. - Budgets and reports.
(a)
The board shall submit to the governing officials of the county a budget for its approval. Upon approval of said budget, the board shall be responsible for the administration of the provisions of the same. The board may receive fees and revenues from the operation of recreational facilities and programs, and may also solicit or receive gifts or bequests of money, personal or real property, or donations which it may apply, either principal or income, for temporary or permanent uses for playgrounds or other recreational purposes.
(b)
The board shall make a full and complete annual report to the governing officials of the county and make such other reports as may be required by them from time to time.
(Ord. of 1-10-1978(1), art. V, §§ 1, 2)
Sec. 2-142. - Officers.
(a)
The officers of the board shall be a chair, a vice-chair and a secretary-treasurer.
(b)
The officers shall be elected annually, and shall serve for the term of one year, or until their successors are elected and qualified. Any or all of the officers thus elected may serve for consecutive years, if re-elected.
(c)
The chair shall preside at meetings of the board and he shall appoint committees, and perform all other duties generally pertaining to the office of chairperson.
(d)
The vice-chair shall perform these duties in the absence of the chair.
(e)
The secretary-treasurer shall keep a record of minutes of the meetings of the board, record all official actions of the board, have custody of its books and records, which shall be housed at the office of the director, give notices to the members of meetings and shall attend to such other duties as may be assigned to him by the board.
(f)
The treasurer of the board shall receive all monies for the board and deposit them in such depositories as the board may direct. He shall pay all charges and bills approved by the board for payment, and shall render to the board a statement at such intervals as the board may direct itemizing the expenses and income for the period reported.
(Ord. of 1-10-1978(1), art. VI, §§ 1—6)
Sec. 2-143. - Meetings and attendance.
(a)
Regular meetings of the board shall be held at the board's designated office on the first Tuesday of every month at 7:30 p.m. Special meetings of the board may be held at any time at the call of the chair of the board, or at the call of the director of leisure services or by a majority of the members of the board or by the board of the county commissioners.
(b)
A majority of the board shall constitute a quorum for the transaction of business.
(c)
The absence for three consecutive meetings of any member of the board, without due and acceptable excuse, shall constitute a vacancy on the board. Any such unexcused absences shall be reported by the secretary to the board of county commissioners who shall thereupon declare a vacancy and proceed to fill such vacancy for the unexpired term.
(Ord. of 1-10-1978(1), art. VII, §§ 1—3)
Sec. 2-144. - Created; vacancy.
(a)
Under the provisions of House Bill 794, approved February 1, 1946, there is hereby established a leisure services board.
(b)
Vacancies on such boards occurring other than by expiration of a term shall be filled by majority vote of the county commissioners for the unexpired term only.
(Ord. of 1-10-1978(2), § 1)
Sec. 2-145. - Chair election; powers.
(a)
Immediately after their appointment, board members shall meet and organize by electing a chair and other necessary officers. The board shall have power to adopt by laws, rules and regulations, for the proper conduct of recreation for the county leisure service board.
(b)
The leisure service board shall provide, conduct and supervise public playgrounds, playfields, indoor recreation centers and other recreation facilities owned or controlled by the county designated by the board of county commissioners. It shall have the power to conduct any form of recreation or cultural activity that will employ the leisure time of the people in a wholesome or constructive manner. It may conduct such activities on properties under its own control on public properties with the consent of the authorities thereof, and on other properties as may be lawful and proper.
(Ord. of 1-10-1978(2), §§ 2, 3)
Sec. 2-146. - Director.
The leisure services board shall have the power to appoint or design someone to act as director who is trained or properly qualified for the work, and such other personnel as the board deems proper.
(Ord. of 1-10-1978(2), § 4)
Sec. 2-147. - Budget; gifts.
Annually, the leisure services board shall submit a budget to the county board of commissioners for approval. The board may also solicit or receive any gifts or bequests of money or other personal property or any donation to be applied, principal or income, for either temporary or permanent use for playgrounds or other recreational purposes.
(Ord. of 1-10-1978(2), § 5)
Sec. 2-148. - Annual report.
The leisure services board shall make an annual report to the county board of commissioners and such other reports as may be requested.
(Ord. of 1-10-1978(2), § 6)
Secs. 2-149—2-179. - Reserved.
DIVISION 3. - JOINT DEVELOPMENT AUTHORITY

Sec. 2-180. - Members.
(a)
The number of members of the authority shall be ten. Two members shall be appointed by the board of commissioners of each participating county and each such member shall be a resident and taxpayer of such county. The members appointed by the board of commissioners of each participating county shall be the chair of the board of directors of the development authority of each participating county or his nominee and the executive director of the development authority for each participating county.
(b)
If, at the end of any term of any member, a successor to such member has not been appointed, the member whose term of office has expired shall continue to hold office until his successor is appointed.
(c)
The members of the authority shall constitute its board of directors. A majority of the members of the authority shall constitute a quorum, but no action may be taken by the authority without the affirmative vote of a majority of the full membership of the authority.
(Res. of 12-9-2003(1), § 2)
Sec. 2-181. - Creation.
Pursuant to the provisions of state law and by concurrent resolutions approved by the Board of Commissioners of Glynn County, the Board of Commissioners of Camden County, the Board of Commissioners of McIntosh County, the Board of Commissioners of Charlton County, and the Board of Commissioners of Brantley County, there is hereby created a public body corporate and politic to be known as the "Joint Development Authority of Glynn, Camden, McIntosh, Charlton and Brantley Counties" (the "Authority") which shall be deemed an instrumentality of Glynn, Camden, McIntosh, Charlton and Brantley Counties (hereinafter collectively referred to as participating counties) and a public corporation, with the powers and limitations provided for herein and under O.C.G.A. § 36-62-5.1, authorizing the creation of joint development authorities by two or more counties.
(Res. of 12-9-2003(1), § 1)
Sec. 2-182. - Public purpose.
The authority is created for the public purpose of promoting and expanding business, industry and trade in Glynn, Camden, McIntosh, Charlton and Brantley Counties and to attract and support new business industry to provide increased employment for the citizens living within the jurisdiction of the authority and to expand the ad valorem property tax base for the three counties.
(Res. of 12-9-2003(2), § 1)
Sec. 2-183. - Board of directors.
(a)
The authority shall be controlled by a board of directors (the "board") consisting of members as follows:
(1)
Two members of the board shall be appointed by the Board of Commissioners of Glynn County consisting of the current chair of the board of the Brunswick and Glynn County Development Authority or his nominee and the executive director of the Brunswick and Glynn County Development Authority;
(2)
Two members of the board shall be appointed by the Board of Commissioners of Camden County consisting of the current chair of the board of the Camden County Joint Development Authority or his nominee and the executive director of the Camden County Joint Development Authority;
(3)
Two members of the board shall be appointed by the county board of commissioners consisting of the current chair of the board of the county development authority or his nominee and the executive director of the county development authority;
(4)
Two members of the board shall be appointed by the Board of Commissioners of Charlton County consisting of the current chair of the board of the Folkston/Charlton County Development Authority or his nominee and the executive director of the Folkston/Charlton County Development Authority; and
(5)
Two members of the board shall be appointed by the board of commissioners of Brantley County consisting of the current chair of the board of the Brantley County development authority or his nominee and the executive director of the Brantley County development authority.
(b)
Each member of the authority appointed who is the executive director of the development authority of the participating county from which he is appointed shall serve a term coextensive with his term as executive director. Each member of the authority appointed who is the chair of the board of directors of the development authority of the participating county from which he is appointed or the nominee of such chair shall serve a term coextensive with the term of the chair of the board of the development authority of the participating county from which he is appointed.
(c)
The members of the board shall receive no compensation for their services, but shall be entitled to reimbursement for actual expenses incurred in the performance of their duties as members of the board. Each member of the board shall serve his stated term and continue to serve as a member of the board until his successor is qualified and chose. In the event of the death or resignation of a member of the board, his successor shall be duly appointed by the respective board of commissioners of the county where the former member was a resident.
(Res. of 12-9-2003(2), § 2)
Sec. 2-184. - Officers.
At the initial meeting of the board, there shall be elected by majority vote, a chair, vice-chair, secretary and treasurer for the authority, all of whom shall serve a one year term. The chair or the vice-chair shall sign, on behalf of the authority, all official documents which shall be attested to by either the secretary or the treasurer. All resolutions of the board binding the authority to any legal obligation must be approved by a majority vote of the members of the board.
(Res. of 12-9-2003(2), § 3)
Sec. 2-185. - Staff.
The authority shall have authority to hire an executive director who will act as chief operating officer of the authority. The executive director shall serve as secretary of the authority and shall hire all staff, be responsible for the annual work plan and budget creation.
(Res. of 12-9-2003(2), § 4)
Sec. 2-186. - Term.
The authority shall be deemed formally created and authorized to do business upon the filing with the secretary of state of these articles of organization with supporting resolutions from the participating counties. The authority shall have perpetual existence but may be dissolved at any time by the adoption of the appropriate resolution by the governing authorities of the participating counties. Any participating county may withdraw from the authority through the execution of amended concurrent resolutions by the governing bodies of the participating counties. Such action shall not effect the existence of the authority. Additional counties may join the authority through the execution of appropriate amended concurrent resolutions by the governing bodies of the participating counties currently comprising the authority as well as the governing bodies of the counties joining the authority.
(Res. of 12-9-2003(2), § 5)
Sec. 2-187. - Taxation.
The authority shall not be required to pay any state or local taxes or other assessments imposed by the state, or any county, municipal corporation or other political subdivision or taxing district, nor shall there be any ad valorem property taxes assessed against any property acquired and owned by the authority or under its jurisdiction, control, possession, supervision or leased to a private entity, as provided by O.C.G.A. § 36-62-3. The foregoing exemption from taxes shall not include an exemption from sales and use taxes on property purchased by or used by the authority.
(Res. of 12-9-2003(2), § 6)
Sec. 2-188. - Powers of the authority.
The authority shall have all the powers provided for under O.C.G.A. § 36-62-6 and any amendments thereto including, but not limited to, the power:
(1)
To bring and defend actions;
(2)
To adopt and amend a corporate seal;
(3)
To make and execute contracts and other instruments necessary to exercise the powers of the authority, any of which contracts may be made with the county in which the authority is located or with any one or more municipal corporations in such county;
(4)
To receive and administer gifts, grants and devises of any property and to administer trusts;
(5)
To acquire, by purchase, gift, or construction, any real or personal property desired to be acquired as part of any project or for the purpose of improving, extending, adding to, reconstructing, renovation, or remodeling any project or part thereof already acquired or for the purpose of demolition to make room for such project or any part thereof;
(6)
To sell, lease, exchange, transfer, assign, pledge, mortgage, dispose of, or grant options for any real or personal property or interest therein for any such purposes;
(7)
To dispose of any real property for fair market value, regardless of prior development of such property as a project, whenever the board may deem such disposition to be in the best interest of the authority if the board prior to such disposition shall determine that such real property no longer can be used advantageously as a project for the development of trade, commerce, industry, and employment opportunities;
(8)
To mortgage, convey, pledge, or assign any properties, revenues, income, tolls, charges, or fees owned or received by the authority;
(9)
To extend credit or make loans to any person, firm, corporation, or other industrial entity for the planning, design, construction, acquisition, or carrying out of any project, which credit or loans shall be secured by loan agreements, mortgages, security agreements, contracts, and all other instruments, fees, or charges, upon such terms and conditions as the authority shall determine reasonable in connection with such loans, including provision for the establishment and maintenance of reserves and insurance funds; and, in the exercise of powers granted by O.C.G.A. § 36-62-6 in connection with a project for such person, firm, corporation, or other industrial entity, to require the inclusion in any contract, loan, agreement, security agreement, or other instrument, of such provisions for guaranty, insurance, construction, use, operation, maintenance, and financing of a project as the authority may deem necessary or desirable;
(10)
To acquire, accept, or retain equitable interest, security interests, or other interest in any property, real or personal, by mortgage, assignment, security agreement, pledge, conveyance, contract, lien, loan agreement, or other consensual transfer, in order to secure the repayment of any moneys loaned or credit extended by the authority;
(11)
To construct, acquire, own, repair, remodel, maintain, extend, improve, and equip projects located on land owned or leased by the authority or land owned or leased by others and to pay all or part of the cost of any such project from the proceeds of revenue bonds of the authority or from any contribution or loans by persons, firms, or corporations or nay other contribution, all of which the authority is authorized to receive, accept and use;
(12)
To borrow money and issue its revenue bonds and bond anticipation notes from time to time and to use the proceeds thereof for the purpose of paying all or part of the cost of any project, including the cost of extending, adding, to, or improving the project, or for the purpose of refunding any such bonds of the authority theretofore issued and to otherwise carry out the purposes for which the authority was created and to pay all other costs of the authority incident to or necessary and appropriate to such purposes, including the providing of funds to be paid into any fund or funds to secure such bonds and notes, provided that all such bond and notes shall be issued in accordance with the procedures and subject to the limitations set forth in O.C.G.A. § 36-62-8;
(13)
As security for repayment of authority obligations, to pledge, mortgage, convey, assign, hypothecate, or otherwise encumber any property, real or personal, of the authority and to execute any trust agreement, indenture, or security agreement containing any provisions not in conflict with law, which trust agreement, indenture, or security agreement may provide for foreclosure or forced sale of any property of the authority upon default, on such obligations, either in payment of principal or interest or in the performance of any term or condition, as are contained in such agreement or indenture; and
(14)
To expend for the promotion of industry, agriculture, and trade within its jurisdiction any funds of the authority determined by the board to be in excess of those needed for the other corporate purposes of the authority.
(Res. of 12-9-2003(2), § 7)
Sec. 2-189. - Limitations of the authority and prohibited transactions.
The authority shall be prohibited from directly owning or operating a project, except for an industrial park, as provided under O.C.G.A. § 36-62-7, and all members of the board shall be prohibited from transacting business for pecuniary gain with the authority, as provided by O.C.G.A. § 36-62-5(e) with such exceptions as provided therein.
(Res. of 12-9-2003(2), § 8)
Sec. 2-190. - Job tax credits.
The authority shall be able to take advantage of tax credits as outlined in O.C.G.A. § 48-7-40 as well as any other tax credits now or hereafter available under state law. Each county shall be able to offer its credit plus an amount not less than $500.00.
(Res. of 12-9-2003(2), § 9)
Sec. 2-191. - Business and industrial park.
Acting as the agent for the participating counties involved the authority may create multi-county business/industrial park as allowed under Amendment 1 to the Georgia Constitution passed by the citizens November 6, 1994. The counties will enter into a single contract relating the expense and tax sharing no matter in which county the park is located.
(Res. of 12-9-2003(2), § 10)
Sec. 2-192. - Debt.
The authority shall not be authorized to create in any manner any debt, liability or obligation against the state, Glynn, Camden, McIntosh, Charlton and Brantley Counties or any municipal corporation located therein.
(Res. of 12-9-2003(2), § 11)
Sec. 2-193. - Bonds.
The authority shall be entitled to issue bonds, bond anticipation notes, trust indentures, deeds to secure obligations, security agreements, and mortgages as provided under the provisions of O.C.G.A. § 36-62-8, subject to the limitations of O.C.G.A. § 36-62-9.
(Res. of 12-9-2003(2), § 12)
Sec. 2-194. - Dissolution.
If for any reason the separate corporate existence of the authority is terminated and dissolved, any and all property owned by the authority shall be transferred and assigned to the host county wherein the property is located.
(Res. of 12-9-2003(2), § 13)
Sec. 2-195. - Amendment.
The board, by majority vote, shall have the right to amend these articles of organization, so long as such amendment does not violate any of the provisions of the Development Authorities Law for the state, as referenced in this division.
(Res. of 12-9-2003(2), § 14)
Secs. 2-196—2-213. - Reserved.
