Chapter 58 - OFFENSES[1]

Footnotes:
--- (1) ---
Cross reference— Alcoholic beverages, ch. 6; amusements and entertainments, ch. 10; animals, ch. 14; businesses, ch. 22; environment, ch. 30; law enforcement, ch. 46; municipal court, ch. 54; streets, sidewalks and other public places, ch. 66; traffic and vehicles, ch. 78; vehicles for hire, ch. 86; weapons, ch. 88.
State Law reference— Limitations on home rule powers of municipal corporations, O.C.G.A. § 36-35-6(a)(2); Criminal Code of Georgia, O.C.G.A. § 16-1-1 et seq.

Sec. 58-1. - Disorderly conduct.
It shall be unlawful for any person or persons within the corporate limits of the city to engage in any conduct described in the following subsections; provided, however, that no persons shall be convicted of any of the following sections upon a showing that the predominant intent of said conduct was to exercise a constitutional right.
(1)
Act in a violent or tumultuous manner toward another whereby any person is placed in fear of safety of his life, limb or health;
(2)
Act in a violent or tumultuous manner toward another whereby the property of any person is placed in danger of being destroyed or damaged;
(3)
Cause, provoke or engage in any fight, brawl or riotous conduct so as to endanger the life, limb, health or property of another;
(4)
Assemble or congregate with another or others for the purpose of or with the intent to engage in gaming;
(5)
Frequent any public place with intent to obtain money from other persons by illegal and fraudulent schemes, tricks, artifices or devices;
(6)
Assemble for the purpose of engaging in any fraudulent scheme, device or trick to obtain any valuable thing in any place or from any person, or to aid or abet therein;
(7)
Accost or force one's company upon any person;
(8)
Frequent any place where gaming or the illegal sale or possession of alcoholic beverages or narcotics or dangerous drugs is practiced, allowed or tolerated, for the purpose of or with the intent to engage in gaming or the purchase, use, possession or consumption of said illegal drugs, narcotics, or alcoholic beverages;
(9)
Use "fighting words" towards another, that is, words which by their very nature tend to incite an immediate breach of the peace;
(10)
By acts of violence interfere with another's pursuit of a lawful occupation;
(11)
Congregate with another or others in or on any public way so as to halt the flow of vehicular or pedestrian traffic and refuse to clear such public way when ordered by the city police or other authority;
(12)
Disrupt, by excessive noise or disorderly actions, the undisturbed activities of any institution of learning, house of worship or any hospital; or
(13)
Throw bottles, paper, cans, glass, sticks, stones, missiles or any other debris on public property.
(14)
Stand or remain in or about any street, sidewalk, overpass, or public way so as to impede the flow of vehicular or pedestrian traffic, and to fail to clear such street, sidewalk, overpass, or public way after being ordered to do so by a police officer or other lawful authority;
(15)
Making unreasonable noise or offensively coarse utterances, gestures or displays, or communicating unwarranted and grossly abusive language to any person, thereby causing annoyance or alarm to another.
(Code 1976, § 10-1001; Ord. of 3-7-94, § 1; Ord. No. 2003-5, § 1, 12-1-03)
Sec. 58-2. - Loitering of minors.
(a)
It is unlawful for any minor 16 years of age or younger to loiter, wander, stroll or play in or upon the public streets, highways, roads, alleys, parks, playgrounds, or other public grounds, public places, public buildings, places of amusement, eating places, vacant lots, or any place unsupervised by an adult having the lawful authority to be at such places, between the hours of 11:00 p.m. on any day and 6:00 a.m. of the following day; provided, however, that on Fridays and Saturdays the effective hours are between 12:00 midnight and 6:00 a.m. of the following day; and provided that the provisions of this section shall not apply in the following instances. When a minor is:
(1)
Accompanied by his or her parent, guardian or other adult person having the lawful care and custody of the minor;
(2)
Upon an emergency errand directed by his or her parent, guardian or such adult person having the lawful care and custody of the minor;
(3)
Returning directly home from a school activity, entertainment, recreational activity or dance;
(4)
Returning directly home from the lawful employment that makes it necessary to be in the above-referenced places during the proscribed period of time;
(5)
Attending or traveling directly to or from an activity involving the exercise of first amendment rights of free speech, freedom of assembly, or free exercise of religion;
(6)
In a motor vehicle with parental consent for normal travel, with interstate travel through the city.
(b)
It is unlawful for any minor 16 years of age or younger, subject to compulsory school attendance, to be (1) absent from a public or private school or a home study program without a valid written excuse from school officials or from the parent or guardian in charge of the home study program, and (2) found away from home, unaccompanied by his/her parent, guardian or other adult person having the lawful care and custody of the minor, in or upon the public streets or any other places listed in subsection (a), above, within the city between the hours of 8:00 a.m. and 12:00 noon during weekdays. This section, however, shall not apply in the instance when the minor is upon an emergency errand directed by his or her parent, guardian or such adult person having the lawful care and custody of the minor.
(c)
It shall be unlawful for the parent, guardian or other person having custody or control of any child 16 years of age or younger to permit, or by insufficient control, to allow, such child to be in violation of subsection (a) or (b), above. Upon conviction of a violation of this section, a person shall be subject to a fine not to exceed $1,000.00 and costs, or imprisonment in the county jail for not more than 60 days, or work on the public streets or work on the public works of the city for not more than 60 days, or be subject to any one or more of the punishments; subject to all limitations contained in the Charter of the city. Each violation of this section shall constitute a separate offense.
(Ord. of 8-19-96(2), § 1)
