ARTICLE IX. - TRANSIENT MERCHANTS, PEDDLERS AND SOLICITORS[9]
Footnotes:
--- (9) ---
State Law reference— Disabled veterans and blind persons engaging in peddling, O.C.G.A. § 43-12-1; Georgia Charitable Solicitations Act of 1988, O.C.G.A. § 43-17-1 et seq.; peddlers and itinerant traders, O.C.G.A. § 43-32-1 et seq.; Transient Merchants Act of Georgia, O.C.G.A. § 43-46-1 et seq.

DIVISION 1. - GENERALLY

Sec. 22-311. - Definitions.
The following words, terms and phrases, when used in this article, shall have the meanings ascribed to them in this section, except where the context clearly indicates a different meaning:
Booth and stand mean any table, shelf, counter, cart or other facility, whether mobile or fixed, which is placed on a street or other public place within the city for the purpose of selling or offering to sell any goods or service to the public, or for soliciting for any purpose, except for any nonmotorized wheeled vehicle which is properly licensed under section 22-314.
License means the right or privilege granted by the city to engage in business as a transient merchant or peddler within the corporate limits of the city. Evidence that such right or privilege has been granted shall be in the form of a license document issued by the city, which document shall be kept at the merchant's place of business within the city or on the peddler's person or within the peddler's vehicle.
Local peddler means any person who is a resident of the city, who has no regular fixed place of business within the city, and who engages in the business of selling or offering to sell goods or services by going from place to place within the city, except a person selling agricultural products and holding a letter from a county agent certifying that the products were produced by that person.
Permit means the authorization granted by the city to solicit for charitable or religious purposes or to solicit subscriptions. There shall be no fee or charge for such permit. Evidence that such authorization has been granted shall be in the form of a document issued by the city.
Solicitor for charitable or religious purposes means any person who solicits contributions from the public, either on the streets of the city or door-to-door, for any charitable or religious organization, and who does not sell or offer to sell any single item at a cost to the purchaser in excess of $10.00. No qualification as a charitable or religious organization shall exist unless the applicant:
(1)
Is able to demonstrate a current exemption certificate from the Internal Revenue Service pursuant to section 501(c)(3) of the Internal Revenue Code of 1954, as amended; or
(2)
Has maintained in the city a continuous existence as a charitable or religious organization for a period of three years prior to the date of its application pursuant to this article.
Solicitor for subscriptions means any person who solicits subscriptions by going from place to place within the city and who offers for sale subscriptions to magazines or other materials protected by provisions of the First Amendment of the Constitution of the United States.
Street means any street, alley, avenue, court, sidewalk or public right-of-way, or any other public place within the city.
Street barker means any peddler, whether transient or local, who does business during recognized festival days in the county, and who limits his business to selling or offering to sell novelty items and similar goods in the area of the festival or parade.
Transient merchant means any person, whether a resident or nonresident of the city, who has no permanent, regular place of business within the city and who engages in the business of selling or offering to sell goods or services from a temporary fixed place of business located within the city, including any room or space in a hotel or motel, boardinghouse, public or private building or any other fixed place of business within the city; provided, however, that no merchant shall be considered a transient merchant under this article if:
(1)
Such merchant is a bona fide commercial traveler selling goods at wholesale by samples;
(2)
Such merchant has already paid a license fee to the city for the privilege of conducting a permanent business; or
(3)
Such merchant is a peddler otherwise licensed by the city to sell goods from place to place.
Transient peddler means any person who is a nonresident of the city, who has no permanent, regular place of business within the city, and who engages in the business of selling or offering to sell goods or services by going from place to place within the city, except a person selling agricultural products and holding a letter from a county agent certifying that the products were produced by that person.
(Code 1976, § 6-1162)
Cross reference— Definitions and rules of construction generally, § 1-2.
Sec. 22-312. - Penalty for violation of article.
Any person doing business within the city as a transient merchant, transient peddler, local peddler or solicitor, or in any other manner covered by this article, who violates any provision of this article, or any merchant, peddler or solicitor who makes any false statement in any application for a business license or permit, shall be subject to revocation of any license or permit according to procedures established by ordinance, and shall be subject to subpoena to the municipal court under a misdemeanor charge, and the punishment thereof.
(Code 1976, § 6-1176)
Sec. 22-313. - Operations by peddlers and solicitors.
The following regulations shall apply to any peddler doing business within the city, whether transient or local, and to any solicitor for a charitable or religious organization or for subscriptions, who is required to obtain a license or permit:
(1)
No peddler or solicitor shall be permitted to set up and operate a booth or stand on any street or sidewalk, or in any other public area within the city, except with the written permission of the city.
(2)
No peddler or solicitor shall stand or sit in or near the entrance to any house or place of business, and no peddler or solicitor shall stand or sit in any place where such standing or sitting may disrupt or impede pedestrian or vehicle traffic.
(3)
No peddler or solicitor shall offer to sell goods or services or solicit in vehicular traffic lanes of the city, and no peddler or solicitor shall operate a roadblock directed toward vehicular traffic.
(4)
If any officer of the city police department should determine that pedestrian or vehicular traffic congestion is such that public hazard or inconvenience would result from peddling or soliciting in the congested area, such officer shall have authority to require any peddler or solicitor to move from the area.
(5)
No peddler or solicitor shall enter a private residence, place of business, public building or other premises within the city under false pretenses for the purpose of peddling goods or services, soliciting orders for the sale of goods or services, soliciting subscriptions or soliciting contributions. No peddler or solicitor shall remain in or on such premises after the owner, occupant or other person in charge has requested the peddler or solicitor to leave. No peddler or solicitor shall go in or on such premises when the owner, occupant or other person in charge has displayed a "no soliciting" sign or other similar sign on the premises.
(6)
Location of any peddler's or solicitor's stand or booth on private property shall be with the express permission of the property owner, and such stand or booth shall meet zoning regulations and all safety and health code requirements of the county and the city.
(7)
No peddler or solicitor shall harass or intimidate the public in any manner.
(8)
Each peddler, each solicitor for subscriptions and each solicitor for a religious or charitable organization shall be required to display a valid license or permit issued by the city, or a copy thereof, in a manner which can be clearly observed by any person being solicited for a sale, subscription or contribution; provided, however, that each member or representative of a religious or charitable organization which has been issued a permit to solicit contributions within the city may, in lieu of displaying a copy of the permit, display an identification badge or insignia of the organization, if such insignia has been established by a statutory service or trademark, in a manner which can be clearly observed by any person being solicited.
(9)
When any officer of the city police department or any other authorized city officer deems that a peddler or solicitor is in violation of any provision of this article, such officer shall have authority to direct the peddler or solicitor to correct the violation immediately, and such peddler or solicitor shall comply with the directive or be subject to the penalties prescribed by this article.
(Code 1976, § 6-1174)
Sec. 22-314. - Sales from nonmotorized wheeled vehicles.
Sale of any item from a nonmotorized wheeled vehicle at a stationary site shall be confined to the area of streets contiguous to and around the squares, parks and recreation areas of the city. No sales from such vehicles shall be permitted on sidewalks along streets within or around parks or squares. Any person making sales from such vehicles shall be responsible for collecting trash and discarded materials by customers of the business within a 50-foot radius of the vehicle.
(Code 1976, § 6-1175)
Secs. 22-315—22-325. - Reserved.
DIVISION 2. - LICENSES; SOLICITOR'S PERMIT

Sec. 22-326. - Generally.
(a)
No person shall operate a business as a transient merchant or peddler within the city unless a license for such business has first been granted by the city, and no solicitor for charitable or religious purposes or solicitor for subscriptions shall solicit within the city unless a permit has been granted by the city in accordance with the provisions of this division.
(b)
Such license or permit shall be effective for the period stated in the document, unless suspended or revoked prior to expiration.
(c)
Application for a license or permit shall be made on forms provided by the city and shall provide such information as is required by this division and such additional information as may be necessary to define completely the activities to be conducted within the city.
(Code 1976, § 6-1163)
Sec. 22-327. - Transient merchant's or transient peddler's license.
(a)
Application. An application containing the following information shall be completed and filed with the city administrator by each applicant for a license to do business within the city as a transient merchant or as a transient peddler:
(1)
The name of the applicant.
(2)
The permanent address and telephone number of the applicant.
(3)
The local address and telephone number of the applicant.
(4)
The applicant's social security number or federal employer identification number.
(5)
If the applicant is a partnership or corporation, the name and home address of each partner, principal or corporation officer.
(6)
If the applicant is a corporation, the state and date of incorporation.
(7)
If the applicant is a partnership or corporation, the name, home address, date of birth, age, and social security number of the principal representative in the city.
(8)
The name and home address of all employees who will work in the city.
(9)
The name of the business represented by the applicant, if different from the applicant.
(10)
The permanent address of the business represented by the applicant.
(11)
The name of the agent conducting the sale, if any.
(12)
The local address and telephone number of the sales agent, if any.
(13)
The type of merchandise or service to be offered for sale.
(14)
The place where business is to be conducted.
(15)
The dates the applicant is to be in business, and the total number of days the applicant is to be in business.
(16)
The hours during which business will be conducted.
(17)
The manner in which business is to be conducted.
(18)
The state sales tax number or authorization.
(19)
The state business license number, if required.
(20)
The state and license tag number of each vehicle to be used in the business.
(21)
A list of the cities where business has been conducted by the applicant within the past 12 months.
The license application shall be signed under oath by the applicant.
(b)
Grounds for disapproval or revocation. No application shall be approved and any license previously issued may be revoked if any investigation determines that:
(1)
Any false statement, material omission or untrue or misleading information is contained in or left out of the application;
(2)
The applicant, or any principal participant in the business, has been convicted within the past five years of a felony, or of any crime involving moral turpitude, whether in connection with operation of the business or not; or
(3)
The business is operated or is proposed to be operated in violation of any law of the United States or the state, or in violation of any ordinance of the city.
(c)
Review and approval; issuance. Any application for a transient merchant's license or a transient peddler's license shall be reviewed by the city administrator to ensure compliance with zoning and safety code requirements of the city. The application must be approved by the city administrator, or by his designated representative, before a license may be issued. After approval, the city administrator shall be authorized to issue a license.
(d)
Fee for transient merchants. A license fee of $100.00 per day shall be paid by any transient merchant, up to a maximum of $500.00 for any one period of continuous business operation within the city during a calendar year; provided, however, that in any case where a higher license fee is required by other ordinances the higher fee shall apply, and provided further that any such license shall expire no later than December 31 of the year in which business is conducted.
(e)
Fee for transient peddlers. A license fee of $20.00 per day shall be paid by any transient peddler, up to a maximum fee of $100.00 for any one period of continuous business operation within the city during a calendar year; provided, however, that in any case where a license fee higher than $100.00 is required by other ordinances the higher fee shall apply, and provided further that any such license shall expire no later than December 31 of the year in which business is conducted.
(Code 1976, §§ 6-1164, 6-1168—6-1171)
Sec. 22-328. - Registered agent for transient merchants.
(a)
Required; duties.
(1)
Transient merchants shall submit evidence with each license application under this division showing that such transient merchant has filed with the clerk of the superior court of the county the name and permanent address of the transient merchant's registered agent. Such registered agent shall be a resident of the city and shall be an agent of such transient merchant upon whom any process, notice or demand required or permitted by law to be served upon the transient merchant may be served in the same manner provided by law for the service of a summons or complaint. The registered agent shall agree in writing to act as such agent, and a copy of the agreement shall be filed with the license application.
(2)
Any such registered agent shall act in the same capacity and have the same duties and responsibilities and be subject to the same actions of the superior court as would any agent registered as required by H.B. 1568 of the general assembly of the state adopted in 1980 and known as the Transient Merchant Act [O.C.G.A. § 43-46-1 et seq.].
(b)
Exceptions.
(1)
No applicant which is a corporation and which submits evidence that the corporation is chartered by the state shall be required to secure a registered agent within the city.
(2)
No applicant which is a corporation chartered outside the state and which submits evidence that the corporation is currently registered with the secretary of state of the State of Georgia shall be required to secure a registered agent within the city.
(Code 1976, §§ 6-1166, 6-1167)
Sec. 22-329. - Licensing of local peddlers.
Any local peddler shall be licensed in the same manner and shall pay a fee in the same amount as is required for any other local merchant, as provided by other ordinances.
(Code 1976, § 6-1172)
Sec. 22-330. - Street barker's license.
No peddler who does business as a street barker shall be required to comply with the application requirements set out in this division for transient merchants and transient peddlers. Application for a street barker's license shall be on the regular license application form, and such license shall be issued for a period not to exceed the duration of the festival or parade. The license fee for each such street barker shall be $10.00 per day, up to a maximum fee of $50.00 for any one period of continuous business operation within the city during a calendar year; provided, however, that any such license shall expire no later than December 31 of the year in which business is conducted.
(Code 1976, § 6-1173)
Sec. 22-331. - Solicitor's permit.
Any applicant for a permit to solicit funds for a charitable or religious organization, and any applicant for a permit to solicit for subscriptions, shall make application to the city administrator. Such applicant shall provide the name and address of the applicant, the name and address of the business or organization represented, the dates during which activities will be conducted within the city, the identity of all persons who will solicit within the city, and such other information as the city administrator may find necessary to identify the solicitors and define the activities to be conducted. Any such applicant who has not resided in the city for the preceding six months shall register at the city police department, and shall be subject to police investigation of any and all solicitors listed in the application. Any solicitor's permit may be denied or revoked under any circumstances as shown in subsection 22-327(b).
(Code 1976, § 6-1165)
Secs. 22-332—22-355. - Reserved.
