Chapter 10 - AMUSEMENTS AND ENTERTAINMENTS[1]

Footnotes:
--- (1) ---
Cross reference— Planning commission, § 2-156 et seq.; businesses, ch. 22; nuisances, § 30-91 et seq.; offenses, ch. 58; streets, sidewalks and other public places, ch. 66; zoning, ch. 90.
State Law reference— Traveling motion picture shows, carnivals and circuses to obtain fire prevention regulatory license from state fire marshal, O.C.G.A. § 25-2-20.

Sec. 10-1. - Permit for operation of place of public entertainment.
It shall be unlawful for any person to construct, own or operate any theatre, moving picture house or other place of public entertainment where an admission is charged without first filing a written application with the council for a permit therefor, which application shall state the name of the petitioner and his age and citizenship, and such other information as the council may desire. The council shall pass upon any such application within 30 days from the filing of the application. The obtaining of such permit does not exempt the applicant from paying any license fee required by the city, this restriction being in addition thereto.
(Code 1976, § 6-1217)
Sec. 10-2. - Permit for conducting public show or exhibition at shopping center, parking lot or similar location.
(a)
Any person desiring to put on public demonstrations, shows, pageants, contests, exhibitions and the like at or near the premises of any shopping center, parking lot, commercial plaza or similar location shall first obtain a permit from the council to present such events.
(b)
Applications for such permits shall be filed with the police department and shall be considered by the council, which may place such limitations on such permits as may be approved by it.
(Code 1976, § 6-1218)
Sec. 10-3. - Permit for conducting carnival or sideshow; approval of rides and other equipment.
No license shall be granted for the operation of a carnival, sideshow or similar exhibition on a vacant lot or in any open place where performances of any kind are given or where machinery of any kind or devices of any kind are operated for amusement unless a permit has been granted by the council. Applications for such permits shall be filed with the chief of police and shall contain such information as the chief of police shall require. However, no ride or amusement device shall be operated after being licensed until approval has been given in writing to the licensee by the building official.
(Code 1976, § 6-1214)
Sec. 10-4. - Permit for operating games of skill and similar amusements.
Persons using as a source of profit devices for throwing balls at figures, throwing rings, machines for testing the lungs or strength, etc., shall make application to the council for a permit to engage in such business. Such application shall be investigated by the police department, and its recommendations reported to the council. Such permit, if granted, shall be for the remainder of the calendar year and must be renewed for each succeeding calendar year. Any permit granted under the terms of this section shall be subject to revocation by the council after notice and an opportunity to be heard by the council.
(Code 1976, § 6-1216)
Sec. 10-5. - License fee for circuses and wild west shows.
All circuses, wild west or rodeo shows exhibiting or which parade on streets in the city shall pay a license fee fixed by the council for each day or part of day, and shall pay an additional license fee fixed by the council for each day or part of day to cover any and all sideshows, sleight-of-hand performances, throwing balls at figures, throwing rings, selling popcorn or lemonade, and similar things, by shows and parties connected with and forming part of such circus or wild west show.
(Code 1976, § 6-1212)
Sec. 10-6. - License for skating rinks and other rinks.
No license shall be issued by the city administrator to any person for skating rinks, walking rinks or rinks of like character, except by order of the council. Any person desiring such license shall make application to the council for such license, stating the location, size and kind of structure to be used.
(Code 1976, § 6-1215)
Sec. 10-7. - Overcrowding at public shows; entrances and exits.
It shall be unlawful for any person having charge or assisting in the management of any circus, show, wild west show, horse show, dog show or similar exhibition, to which the public is invited through the sale of tickets of admission or the giving of passes, to permit the attendance of the public thereat in numbers in excess of the number of seats provided, or to fail to provide means of access to and exit from such seats, or to permit such means of access and exit to become crowded before, during or after performances.
(Code 1976, § 6-1213)
Sec. 10-8. - Fire safety requirements for tent shows.
No license or permit shall be issued to any person for any circus, show or similar exhibition where tents are used unless such tents are flameproof and are certified to be flameproof by the city. Before the circus, show or exhibition shall be open to the public, the fire chief and the building official shall make a complete inspection of the tents and premises to determine their safety. The fire chief and building official are given full and complete authority to see that the proper equipment is installed, along with proper exits for the safety of the public. The fire chief shall place such officers and men of the fire department around the premises as he deems necessary, and the chief of police and the police department shall assist the fire chief in carrying out his orders and instructions. All officials and employees of any circus, show or exhibition shall obey all orders given by the fire chief or any person acting under his authority, and, likewise, the public shall obey all orders and instructions given by city authorities.
(Code 1976, § 6-1219)
Sec. 10-9. - Permitted hours for motion picture shows and other theatrical performances.
(a)
For the purpose of this section, the term "theatrical performances" shall be deemed to include the exhibition or showing of motion pictures and every kind of stage play, exhibition, performance or recital where any admission fee is charged or accepted. The only exceptions to the provisions of this section shall be exhibitions or performances of an educational or religious character where no admission fees are charged or where the total receipts by way of admission fees, collections or contributions are devoted exclusively to religious or charitable purposes.
(b)
It is unlawful, after the time mentioned in subsection (c) of this section, for any person to accept as a condition precedent to admission to any of such performances any cash or other thing of value, or to solicit volunteer contributions of patrons where no admission fee under any guise or character is exacted.
(c)
It shall be unlawful for any person directly or indirectly to offer for sale any admission ticket or token to any such performance as may be included within the provisions of subsection (a) of this section between the hours of 11:00 p.m. and 9:00 a.m.
(d)
It is further unlawful for any person, either directly or indirectly, to begin any such theatrical performance as may be described in subsection (a) of this section between the hours of 11:30 p.m. and 9:00 a.m., unless such performance is concluded before the hour of 12:30 a.m.
(e)
It is further unlawful for any person, directly or indirectly, to give any such theatrical performance as is described in subsection (a) of this section, or any part of such performance, between the hours of 12:30 a.m. and 9:00 a.m.
(f)
No person shall be found in any theatre or public place where theatrical performances such as are described in subsection (a) of this section are given between the hours of 12:30 a.m. and 9:00 a.m., except necessary employees.
(Code 1976, § 6-1211)
