Chapter 30 - COURTS[1]
Footnotes:
--- (1) ---
Cross reference— Administration, ch. 2; civil emergencies, ch. 26; offenses and miscellaneous provisions, ch. 46; traffic and vehicles, ch. 66.

ARTICLE I. - IN GENERAL

Sec. 30-1. - Sessions.
A regular session of the municipal court shall be held each month in sufficient frequency to meet the needs of the city. Each session shall be held at a fixed hour of a fixed day as may be determined by the judge, provided any session may be dispensed with when there is no business pending in the court or if no cases are ready for trial.
Sec. 30-2. - Duty of police officers—Persons violating city ordinances.
Any police officer of the city shall arrest and confine in the county jail, when necessary, any offender against ordinances of the city, where such arrest and confinement is necessary to secure such offender's appearance before the municipal court to answer for his offense, or where it is necessary to preserve the peace and good order of the city; or such police officer may take bond as otherwise provided in section 30-46.
Sec. 30-3. - Same—Persons violating certain state laws.
Any person who shall, in the presence of any police officer, violate any penal laws of this state not punishable by city ordinances shall be arrested with or without a warrant and be carried before a committing magistrate for examination and prosecution.
Sec. 30-4. - Docket.
It shall be the duty of the court clerk to keep a docket showing the disposition of all cases brought before the municipal court. At the trial of all cases, the city manager shall record opposite the statement of the case the punishment inflicted and the date; and an entry shall be made under the sentence of the judge of the municipal court showing the final disposition of the case, that is, whether the fine, if any, was collected, the date of such collection and the disposition of such amounts.
Sec. 30-5. - Warrant or summons; issuance.
It shall be the duty of any member of the police department, in all cases where complaint is made or information obtained of any violation of any of the laws or ordinances of the city, to issue an accusation/summons in the name of the city and directed to the accused, requiring him to appear before the municipal court to answer such charge, which accusation/summons shall designate the time and place of trial. It shall be signed by the officer issuing the accusation/summons, and a copy shall be served upon the accused either personally or by leaving the copy at his place of residence by the issuing officer.
Sec. 30-6. - Service of summons generally.
Summons directed to any offender shall be served personally by some member of the police force.
Sec. 30-7. - Procedure for service of process on corporations.
(a)
In addition to any other means provided by law, corporations may be served in accordance with the provisions of this section.
(b)
Whenever any charge shall be preferred against a corporation doing business in the city for violation of this Code or other ordinance of the city, the city manager shall issue an original and copy notice to the defendant corporation of the charge against such corporation, specifying the time when such charge shall be heard by the municipal court of the city, which copy notice shall be served by the chief of police or any police officer of the city, or the sheriff of the county, at least ten days before the time fixed for trial in the municipal court upon any officer of such corporation to be found in the city, or upon any agent of such corporation, or employee in charge of the business of such corporation, in the city. The officer serving such copy notice shall make an entry of such service on the original notice and return the notice to the municipal court of the city. Such service shall be service upon the corporation; and such case shall, upon the return of such notice as provided in this section, stand for trial before the municipal court at the time stated in such notice.
Sec. 30-8. - Issuance of subpoenas.
Whenever the attendance of any witness may be required before the municipal court to establish any fact, the city manager shall issue a subpoena or summons directed to the witness, stating the time and place of trial and the parties to the case, which shall be served as other process by the chief of police, or other officer or police officer.
Sec. 30-9. - Failure of defendant to appear at trial; failure to plead; judge's entry of plea; conviction.
At the time fixed for trial in municipal court, if the defendant corporation fails to appear, or appearing fails to plead, the municipal court judge or other official presiding over the municipal court of the city shall cause to be entered a plea of not guilty, and the trial shall proceed as though the defendant had appeared and pleaded. Upon the conviction of any corporation in any such trial, there shall be rendered a judgment against it for the fine imposed, upon which an execution shall issue, signed by the municipal court judge and city manager in favor of the city against the property of the defendant corporation.
Sec. 30-10. - Contempt for failure of witness to appear.
If any person summoned as a witness shall fail, neglect or refuse to attend the trial, or render an excuse, sufficient in the judgment of the judge of the municipal court, the defaulting witness shall be liable to a fine as provided by section 1-11. If the cause shall be continued on account of the absence of the witness, the court may issue attachment against the witness, requiring him to show cause on the day appointed for trial why he should not be further dealt with for contempt. The chief of police shall, by virtue of the attachment, arrest such witness, or cause him to be arrested by some other officer or police officer, and shall confine him, so as to have him before the court at such time as may be appointed for further hearing of the original complaint.
Sec. 30-11. - Continuances.
Where the ends of justice may require, all cases may be continued. Applications for continuance shall be addressed to the sound discretion of the court, under the rules governing in the superior courts of this state. All motions in the municipal court for a continuance of any case where the defendant is at liberty on bond shall be made by the defendant, his attorney at law or his attorney in fact, which designation shall not include the surety of his appearance bond. No motion to continue a case shall be entertained except in open court and on the day set for trial. Where an appearance bond has been forfeited and the forfeiture is subsequently set aside for cause, no further motion to continue the case for trial shall be entertained until a forfeiture fee as set forth in the schedule of fees and charges has been paid.
Sec. 30-12. - Holding defendant when court lacks jurisdiction.
If after an investigation of any case it should appear that the municipal court has no jurisdiction to determine it, the judge or the mayor shall require the defendant to enter into bond conditioned to appear before the next term of the court having jurisdiction, to answer such offense, which bond shall be turned over to the proper officer of such court. In default of such bond the judge or the mayor shall have power to commit the defendant to jail to answer the offense at the next term of court having jurisdiction thereof.
Sec. 30-13. - Rules of practice.
The city shall have the opening and conclusion in each case unless the defendant introduces no evidence. The defendant shall then be entitled to the conclusion. The city shall announce first if it is ready for trial; and if not, it shall be held to as strict a showing for continuances as the defendant. The rules of evidence and examination of witnesses shall be the same as in the superior courts, so far as such rules are applicable to the case on trial. All officers, informers and persons injured shall be competent witnesses. In general, the municipal court shall be controlled by the rules of practice governing the superior courts, so far as they are applicable to municipal courts, and by a sound construction of the Charter and ordinances of the city.
Sec. 30-14. - Guilty pleas.
Any party charged with the violation of any provision of this Code or any ordinance of the city may file his plea of "guilty" under such rules as the court may direct. Upon a plea of guilty, the court shall pass sentence or judgment in the case as may appear reasonable and proper.
Sec. 30-15. - Minimum costs; working out.
In each case of a conviction in the municipal court, the costs assessable shall be as set forth in the schedule of fees and charges. Costs shall go into the general fund of the city for general municipal purposes. Defendants unable to pay costs, and compelled in lieu of payment to work on the public works, shall be each required to work two days to cover costs.
Sec. 30-16. - Contempt.
Any person who, during a session of the municipal court, shall be guilty of a contempt of court, or who refuses to abide by any sentence or order of the court, shall be punished as provided by section 1-11.
Sec. 30-17. - Administrative fee.
The court may assess an administrative fee in any case not to exceed $1,000.00 per citation, accusation, charge, violation, or motion by the city requesting certain relief. The total for said charges of administrative fee shall be calculated upon a reasonable estimate of costs incurred in the matter before the court. In special circumstances where clear and convincing evidence demonstrates costs in excess of $1,000.00, the court may increase the amount commensurate with the proof submitted.
(Ord. No. 05-0228-03, § 1, 2-28-05)
Sec. 30-18. - Technology surcharge.
There shall be imposed by the municipal court a technology surcharge of $15.00 for each offense for which a violation is found except those offenses set forth in O.C.G.A. §§ 40-8-76 and 40-8-76.1. Said technology surcharge shall be in addition to all other fines, fees and surcharges imposed by the municipal court. All revenue derived from the technology surcharge shall be utilized by the city for technology support for the police department and municipal court.
(Ord. No. 2012-0924-2, § 1, 9-24-12)
Secs. 30-19—30-45. - Reserved.
ARTICLE II. - APPEARANCE BOND

Sec. 30-46. - Discretion of officer on duty as to certain bonds.
The officer on duty and in charge of the police station when any arrest is made may take bond with or without security, and, in his discretion, payable to the city, in any sum not exceeding $1,000.00 for the appearance of any person accused or suspected of being guilty of the violation of any ordinance of the city to stand to and abide his trial, and also of witnesses to testify in any case pending or about to be commenced.
Sec. 30-47. - Persons refusing to give bond.
If any arrested person or necessary witness shall fail to give the bond and security required of him, such person so refusing may be confined in the county jail, or be kept under guard so as to be present at his trial or to testify, as the case may be.
Sec. 30-48. - Designation of bail; procedure upon failure of bonded persons to appear.
Upon failure of any principal in any bond to appear where such principal is charged with a violation of any of the provisions of this Code or other ordinances of the city or upon the failure of any principal who is a witness to appear and testify as engaged, the judge of the municipal court shall pass a rule requiring the principal and sureties on such bond or recognizance to show cause before him on any date named in this rule, not to be less than a period of time as set by the judge of the municipal court from the passage of such rule, why they should not be required to pay the amount of such bond or recognizance and all costs of forfeiture.
Sec. 30-49. - Service of rule to show cause.
Any member of the police force of the city shall serve a copy of the rule described in section 30-48 upon the principal and surety, if to be found in the city, personally or by leaving a copy at their usual place of abode, at least five days before the time named in the rule for hearing the cause.
Sec. 30-50. - Entry of judgment against delinquent principal and sureties.
If no sufficient cause is shown to the contrary, the judge of the municipal court shall proceed to enter judgment against the principal and sureties for the amount of such bond and costs; and the city manager shall issue execution for the amount of the judgment and costs, which execution shall bear teste in the name of the judge, and place the same in the hands of the chief of police, who shall proceed to collect the same by levy and sale.
Sec. 30-51. - Delivery of principal prior to judgment and forfeiture; release of surety.
Any surety upon any bail bond of any person charged with a violation of any provision of this Code or other ordinance of the city may surrender his principal at any time before forfeiture to the chief of police, who shall confine such principal until discharged by order of the municipal court, or until such principal shall give other good and acceptable security; and the delivery of the principal by the surety shall discharge such surety from all liability upon the bond.
Sec. 30-52. - Sureties residing beyond the county.
No officer of the city shall accept on any bail bond any surety residing beyond the limits of the county, except as authorized by the city council; but if he shall do so, the surety will be bound, and, upon entry of judgment against such surety, the judgment shall be collected as provided by law.
Sec. 30-53. - Disposition of money pledges.
If the person arrested shall fail to appear at the place and time of trial so appointed, it shall be the duty of the judge of the municipal court to declare any pledge forfeited and to order the money to be paid into the city treasury as in other fines and forfeitures if it has not already been deposited in such treasury. If the person so arrested shall appear as engaged and is adjudged not guilty, the money and the property thus deposited shall be ordered by the court delivered up to the person making the deposit. Should any accused person be adjudged guilty and fined on his trial, the amount of the fine and costs of the trial shall be paid into the city treasury and the remainder, if any, refunded to the accused or to the person entitled to the fine and costs.
Secs. 30-54—30-59. - Reserved.
ARTICLE III. - PROSECUTING ATTORNEY

Sec. 30-60. - Prosecuting attorney.
(a)
There is hereby created the office of prosecuting attorney of the municipal court. The term "prosecuting attorney" shall be substituted for the term "city solicitor" and for the word "solicitor" wherever they may appear in the Code.
(b)
The office of prosecuting attorney of the municipal court shall be a part-time position. The term and compensation for the prosecuting attorney shall be as set by contract from time to time.
(Ord. No. 2012-0709, § 1, 7-9-12)
Sec. 30-61. - Qualifications; oaths.
(a)
The prosecuting attorney of the municipal court shall be a member in good standing of the State Bar of Georgia and shall be admitted to practice before the appellate courts of the State of Georgia.
(b)
In addition to the oaths prescribed by O.C.G.A. tit. 45, ch. 3, relating to official oaths, the prosecuting attorney of the municipal court shall take and subscribe to the following oath: "I swear (or affirm) that I will well, faithfully, and impartially and without fear, favor, or affection discharge my duties as prosecuting attorney of the City of Ringgold, Georgia."
(Ord. No. 2012-0709, § 1, 7-9-12)
Sec. 30-62. - Substitute prosecuting attorney.
The mayor and council may provide for a substitute prosecuting attorney if the prosecuting attorney of the municipal court is disqualified from engaging in the prosecution of a particular case or is unable to perform the duties of said office due to illness or incapacity. At any time in which a substitute prosecuting attorney is not available or an appointment has not been made, the city attorney, or his designee, may serve as the substitute prosecuting attorney until such time as the prosecuting attorney or substitute prosecuting attorney is available or appointed. Any substitute prosecuting attorney shall meet the qualifications set forth in section 30-61.
(Ord. No. 2012-0709, § 1, 7-9-12)
Sec. 30-63. - Duties.
The prosecuting attorney of the municipal court shall have the duties and the authority to represent the City of Ringgold as set forth in O.C.G.A. § 15-18-96.
(Ord. No. 2012-0709, § 1, 7-9-12)
