ARTICLE V. - APPLICATION OF REGULATIONS
Except as hereinafter provided:

Section 51. - Use.
No building or land shall hereafter be used or occupied and no building or part thereof shall be erected, constructed, moved, or altered except in conformity with the regulations herein specified for the district in which it is or is to be located. Any use not allowed as a permitted or conditional use within the applicable zoning district shall be deemed prohibited. No more than one principal use per lot shall be permitted except as provided herein.
Section 52. - Building height and density.
No building shall hereafter be erected, constructed or altered so as to exceed the height limit, to accommodate or house a greater number of families than are required or specified in the regulations herein for the district in which it is located.
52.1. Prohibitions. No building shall hereafter be erected, constructed, or altered as to exceed the maximum height, to house a greater number of families than is allowed, or to occupy a greater percentage of lot area than that allowed within the zoning district in which it is located, or in any other manner contrary to the provisions of this ordinance.
52.2. Exceptions. The building height restrictions imposed on buildings and structures by the ordinance for each zoning district shall not apply to the following buildings or structures:
52.21. Churches, schools, hospitals, sanitariums, and other public and quasi-public buildings, and public utility structures, provided that the front, rear, and side yards required in the district in which the structure is located be increased one foot for each ten feet that the building or structure exceeds the maximum height permitted in the zoning district.
52.22. Barns, silos, grain elevators, other farm structures, belfries, cupolas, domes, monuments, water towers, transmission towers, windmills, chimneys, cooling towers, smokestacks, flagpoles, radio and television towers, masts, aerials, and similar structures.
52.3. Signs. None of the exemptions contained in section 52.2 shall apply to signs of any kind, as defined in this ordinance.
Section 53. - Lots and yards.
Lots and yards and other required open space hereinafter shall not be created or reduced in area or dimension to have less than the minimum area or dimensions set forth herein for the zoning district in which they are located.
53.1. Dimensions and area. No building or other structure shall hereafter be erected or altered to have smaller or narrower front yards, rear yards, side yards, or other spaces than herein required.
53.2. Application of requirements for multiple structures. No part of a yard or other open space or off-street parking or loading space required about or in connection with any building for the purpose of complying with this ordinance shall be included as part of a yard, open space, or off-street parking or loading space similarly required for any other building.
53.3. Reduction in area or dimension. No yard or lot existing at the time of passage of this ordinance shall be reduced in dimension or area below the minimum requirements set forth herein. Yards or lots created after the effective date of this ordinance shall meet at least the minimum requirements established by this article, except as may be allowed pursuant to the provisions of section 114.3. This section shall not apply when a portion of a lot is acquired for public use.
53.4. Projection of buildings into required yards. No part of a yard or other open space required for any building for the purpose of complying with the provisions of this ordinance shall be included as part of a yard or other open space similarly required for another building. Every part of a required yard or court shall be open from its lowest point to the sky unobstructed, except for the ordinary projection of sills, cornices, buttresses, ornamental features, chimneys, flues, and eaves, provided such projections shall not extend more than two feet beyond the yard area requirements.
