ARTICLE VI. - HOMESTEAD EXEMPTION[6]

Footnotes:
--- (6) ---
Editor's note— Printed herein is 1992 Ga. Laws, page 5574, which provided a homestead exemption for residents 65 years of age or older. Amendments to the act are indicated by parenthetical history notes following amended provisions. The absence of a history note indicates that the provision remains unchanged from the original act. Obvious misspellings have been corrected without notation. For stylistic purposes, a uniform system of headings, catchlines and citations to state statutes has been used. Additions made for clarity are indicated by brackets.
Code cross reference—Taxation, ch. 78.

Section 1. - Definitions.
For purposes of this act, the term:
(1)
"Ad valorem taxes for county purposes" means all ad valorem taxes for county purposes levied by, for, or on behalf of Hart County, including but not limited to taxes to retire bonded indebtedness, but not including county school district ad valorem taxes for educational purposes.
(2)
"Ad valorem taxes for educational purposes" means all ad valorem taxes for educational purposes levied by, for, or on behalf of the Hart County School District, including but not limited to taxes to retire school bond indebtedness.
(3)
"Homestead" means homestead as defined and qualified in O.C.G.A. § 48-5-40.
Section 2. - Granted; ad valorem taxes.
Each resident of Hart County who is 65 years of age or older is granted an exemption on that person's homestead from all Hart County ad valorem taxes for county purposes in the amount of $10,000.00 of the assessed value of that homestead.
Section 3. - Granted; school district taxes.
Each resident of the Hart County School District who is 65 years of age or older is granted an exemption on that person's homestead from all Hart County School District ad valorem taxes for educational purposes in the amount of $10,000.00 of the assessed value of that homestead.
Section 4. - Application forms.
The tax commissioner of Hart County or the designee thereof shall provide application forms for the exemptions granted by this act and shall require such information as may be necessary to determine the eligibility of the owner for the exemptions.
Section 5. - Claim, return.
The exemptions shall be claimed and returned as provided in O.C.G.A. § 48-5-50.1. The exemptions shall be automatically renewed from year to year as long as the owner occupies the residence as a homestead.
Section 6. - Applicability to state taxes.
The exemptions granted by this act shall not apply to or affect any state taxes.
Section 7. - Relationship to other exemptions.
The exemptions granted by this act shall be in lieu of and not in addition to any other homestead exemption from Hart County ad valorem taxes for county purposes or Hart County School District ad valorem taxes for educational purposes.
Section 8. - Applicability.
The exemptions granted by this act shall apply to all taxable years beginning after December 31, 1992.
