ARTICLE IV. - BUILDING CODE

Sec. 6-68. - Adopted.
There is hereby adopted by the mayor and the city council, for the purpose of establishing stan- dards and procedures affecting the design, erection and construction of buildings and structures, the Standard Building Code, 1979 Edition, being particularly that code published by the International Building Code, of which code not less than one (1) copy has been and now is filed in the office of the city clerk; and the same is adopted and incorporated as fully as if set out at length herein; and the provisions thereof shall be controlling within the corporate limits of the city. All subsequent changes or edition improvements shall be automatically adopted and incorporated for the City of Dublin upon publication by the International Building Code
(Code 1964, § 5-2; Ord. No. 80-22, § 1, 9-4-80; Ord. No. 88-5, § 1, 2-18-88; Ord. No. 03-04, 3-6-2003)
State Law reference— Authority to adopt state minimum standards codes, Ga. Code Ann., § 92A-1514.
Sec. 6-68.1. - Amendments.
The Southern Standard Building Code, 1979 Edition, is hereby amended by deleting section 107.5 in its entirety and inserting in lieu thereof the following new section:
Section 107.5 Building Permit Valuations.
The values and costs contained in the building valuation data guide and regional modifiers as listed in the Southern [Standard] Building Code will be used to determine construction cost for all buildings within the City of Dublin.
(Ord. No. 86-7, § 1, 3-6-86)
Editor's note— Ord. No. 86-7, § 1, enacted Mar. 6, 1986, being not specifically amendatory of the Code, has been included herein as § 6-68.1, at the discretion of the editor. Said ordinance also provided that the "values" referred to in 6-68.1 "will be changed in the City of Dublin as they are changed in future editions of the Southern Building Code."
Sec. 6-69. - Definitions.
(a)
Wherever the term "building inspector" is used in the building code, it shall mean the person designated by the mayor and city council to administer and enforce the provisions of said code.
(b)
Wherever the term "corporate counsel" is used in the building code, it shall mean the city attorney.
(c)
Wherever the term "municipality" is used in the building code, it shall mean the City of Dublin, Georgia.
Sec. 6-70. - Enforcement.
The building code adopted by the provisions of this article shall be enforced by the chief building inspector.
Sec. 6-71. - Penalties.
Any person who shall violate any of the provisions of the building code or fail to comply therewith, or who shall violate or fail to comply with any order made thereunder, shall, for each such failure or violation or noncompliance, be punished as provided in section 1-10 of the City's Code of Ordinances.
Sec. 6-72. - Demolition, removed—Definition.
For the purposes of sections 6-73 through 6-75, the word "structure" means any structure built for the support, shelter or enclosure of persons, animals, chattels or property of any kind which is over eight (8) feet in width. Specifically excluded are manufactured housing, mobile homes and prefabricated buildings being moved from one location to another which are regulated by the laws of the state.
(Ord. No. 74-32, 9-9-74; Ord. No. 06-15, § 11, 10-19-2006)
Sec. 6-73. - Same—Permit, bond.
(a)
It shall be unlawful for any person to demolish or relocate a building, house or similar structure without having first obtained from the city clerk a permit therefor and having paid to the clerk the required fee for the issuance of said permit.
(b)
Upon the issuance of a permit, the holder thereof shall post a cash bond in the amount of two hundred dollars ($200.00) with the city clerk upon the following conditions:
(1)
The bond shall be returned to the holder upon satisfactory completion of the project. Should the project remain unfinished, kept in an unsafe manner, or should the holder fail to clear the lot of all debris and materials within the time specified on the permit, the city manager or his designated agent shall have authority to notify the holder of the permit that the city shall complete the project in a satisfactory manner at the permit holder's expense. If the expense is less than the bond posted, the remainder shall be returned to the permit holder. If the cost is greater than the bond, such difference shall be due and payable to the city, and upon authorization by the city council, shall be assessed against the property.
(2)
Each permit holder is hereby required to post a sign at the site where any building is being demolished before commencing demolition. The sign shall be at least four (4) square feet in area, which shall read in legible printing, with letters at least six (6) inches in height: "WARNING—BUILDING BEING DEMOLISHED—KEEP OUT." Said sign shall also contain the name and business address of the permit holder in letters at least three (3) inches in height. The permit for the demolition shall be firmly affixed to said sign. The building inspector shall have the authority to inspect the projects herein specified while the work is in progress and may notify the permit holder to take such additional safety procedures as he may deem necessary.
(3)
Upon completion of the demolition of any building under the provisions of this section and the removal of all debris, the lot shall be graded to a level consistent with the adjacent terrain.
(Ord. No. 74-5, § 5-4, 3-4-74; Ord. No. 87-22, 8-20-87)
Sec. 6-74. - Same—Relocation requirements; application for permit.
(1)
To be considered for relocation within the city limits, a structure shall meet the following requirements:
(a)
The structure shall have a minimum of nine hundred (900) square feet of heated space.
(b)
The structure shall contain kitchen and bath facilities.
(c)
The structure shall be in compliance with all city codes.
The building inspector shall examine the structure, at the owner's expense, both prior to and after relocation. If said structure is not in compliance, the owner will be obligated to bring structure up to the minimum housing code within three (3) months after relocation. Failure to comply therewith shall be punishable under section 1-10 of the city's Code of Ordinances.
(2)
No structure shall be considered for approval to be relocated within the city limits unless the following is submitted as part of the application for the required permit:
(a)
A picture of all sides of the structure to be moved.
(b)
A plat prepared by a surveyor registered to practice in the state showing the dimensions of the lot, location of utilities and proposed location of the structure.
(c)
A statement regarding the improvements proposed and existing on the lot upon which the structure is to be located.
(d)
A single line drawing of floor plan of the proposed structure.
(e)
A schedule for making improvements required by the building inspector to bring the structure up to the minimum housing code.
(f)
Evidence of payment for utility disconnection and connection.
(Ord. No. 74-32, 9-9-74; Ord. No. 86-5, § 1, 2-20-86)
Sec. 6-74.1. - Same—Public hearing; fee.
Before the issuance of a permit for the relocation of a structure, the mayor and city council shall hold a public hearing thereon. At least fifteen (15) days prior to the date scheduled for the public hearing, the building inspector shall cause to have posted in a conspicuous place on the property, proposed as the new location for the structure, one (1) or more signs, each of which shall not be less than four (4) square feet in area and each of which shall contain information as to the proposed relocation and the date, the place and time of public hearing and the name and number of the city official to call for information.
An administrative fee of seventy-five dollars ($75.00) will be charged for handling the application. Additionally, the city shall be reimbursed by the applicant for any extra cost involved, as determined by the city manager.
(Ord. No. 77-8, § 1, 3-7-77; Ord. No. 77-18, § 1, 6-20-77; Ord. No. 86-5, § 1, 2-20-86; Ord. No. 87-22, 8-20-87)
Sec. 6-75. - Same—Authority of police department.
No structure shall be placed upon appropriate trailer apparatus to be moved from any point within, or upon any street, right-of-way or highway of the city unless the following has been secured:
(a)
A permit to be issued by the police department at least forty-eight (48) hours prior to proposed move. Said permit shall contain evidence that interested public and private utility corporations have been notified, the route to be traveled, destination and statement of person responsible for any costs and damages which may occur.
(b)
The police department shall have the authority to specify the time and route to be traveled.
(c)
Upon determination by the police department that additional escort services are required due to the time, route or size of structure, the city clerk, be authorized, collect a fee in advance for extra manpower required to insure the safety of the move.
(Ord. No. 74-32, 9-9-74)
Secs. 6-76—6-86. - Reserved.
