Chapter 34 - FIRE PREVENTION AND PROTECTION
ARTICLE I. - IN GENERAL

Secs. 34-1—34-18. - Reserved.
ARTICLE II. - COMMUNICATIONS CENTER

Sec. 34-19. - Joint fire protection; responsibilities.
So that the operations of the fire department and communications center may be more efficiently carried out, the county and the City of Cochran, Georgia, have entered into an agreement for joint fire protection, fire services, and communications services for the incorporated and unincorporated areas of the county. Under that agreement, the city has assumed responsibility for the operation of the fire department and the county has assumed responsibility for the operation of the communications center.
(Ord. of 6-1-1980)
Sec. 34-20. - Operation of center.
(a)
The communications center, located in the 911 facility, shall be operated and maintained by the county through the county sheriff's department. The city has conveyed its interest in certain communications equipment located in the communications center to the county. The sheriff shall be responsible for the employment and supervision of the personnel and efficient operation of the communications center that will continue providing services to both the City of Cochran and the county on an equal basis.
(b)
With regard to the communications center, the county bears responsibility for:
(1)
Maintenance, repair, and replacement of needed and necessary equipment as is necessary for the efficient operations of the communication center;
(2)
Employment, training, supervision, and pay for necessary communications center personnel in the operation of the communication center;
(3)
Providing an adequate place to house the communications center; and
(4)
Continuing to provide regular communication services to both the city and the county on an equal basis.
(c)
The regular communication services shall include:
(1)
Sheriff's department of the county.
(2)
Cochran police department.
(3)
Fire department.
(4)
Civil defense.
(5)
Ambulance service.
(6)
State patrol.
(7)
Game and fish commission.
(8)
City utility department.
(9)
Forestry unit.
(10)
State bureau of investigation.
(11)
C.B. channel 9.
(12)
Any other law enforcement agency.
(13)
Individual and business fire and burglar alarms at cost.
(d)
The city shall not be responsible for any expenses in connection with the operation and maintenance of said communications center.
(Ord. of 6-1-1980, § 1(1)—(4))
Sec. 34-21. - Communication committee formed; members; duties.
(a)
The county and the City of Cochran have formed a communication committee, composed of the following persons:
(1)
The county commissioner appointed by the board of commissioners, or if the commission consists of a sole commissioner, then the sole commissioner;
(2)
The county sheriff;
(3)
The city's mayor;
(4)
The fire chief; and
(5)
The city's chief of police.
(b)
The purpose and function of the communication committee shall be to consider recommendations, suggestions, and complaints from the city, the county, city and county residents, and other interested persons concerning the operation of the communication center and to make recommendations to the county regarding the efficient operation of the communication center.
(Ord. of 6-1-1980, § 1(5))
Secs. 34-22—34-45. - Reserved.
ARTICLE III. - FIRE PROTECTION AND FIREFIGHTING[1]

Sec. 34-46. - Special tax district.
modified
(1)
There is hereby created a special tax district consisting of all of the unincorporated area of Bleckley County for the purpose of providing fire protection services primarily for the benefit of the unincorporated area of Bleckley County.
(2)
Fees, assessments, and taxes may be levied and collected within such unincorporated area of Bleckley County to pay, wholly or partially, the cost of providing such services therein and to construct and maintain facilities therefor as may be determined by the governing authority of Bleckley County.
(Ord. of 8-4-2016, §§ 1, 2)
Secs. 34-47—34-52. - Reserved.
new
