Chapter 18 - BUSINESSES
ARTICLE I. - IN GENERAL

Secs. 18-1—18-18. - Reserved.
ARTICLE II. - FORTUNETELLING, PALMISTRY AND CLAIRVOYANCE

Sec. 18-19. - Annual tax.
Any person desiring to practice fortunetelling, phrenology, astrology, clairvoyance, palmistry, or other kindred practices, businesses or professions, where a charge is made or a donation is accepted for such services outside of the corporate limits of the City of Cochran, Georgia, shall pay to the county an annual tax in the amount established by the sole commissioner.
(Res. of 11-20-1973)
State Law reference— Authority for regulation, O.C.G.A. § 36-1-15.
Secs. 18-20—18-41. - Reserved.
ARTICLE III. - TIMBER HARVESTING[1]

Sec. 18-42. - Title.
This article shall be known as the "Bleckley County Tree Harvesting Law."
(Ord. of 2-26-2003, § 1)
Sec. 18-43. - Notice—Required.
All persons or firms harvesting standing timber in any unincorporated area of the county for delivery as pulpwood, logs, poles, posts, or wood chips to any wood yard or processing plant located inside or outside the state shall provide notice of such harvesting operations to the governing authority or to the designated agent thereof prior to entering onto the property if possible, but in no event later than 24 hours after entering onto the property. Further, such persons shall give notice of cessation of cutting within 24 hours after the job is completed.
(Ord. of 2-26-2003, § 3; Ord. of 6-18-2015(1))
Sec. 18-44. - Same—Procedure.
(a)
Prior written notice shall be required of any person or firm harvesting such timber for each separate tract to be harvested thereby, shall be made only in such form as prescribed by rule or regulation of the director of the state forestry commission and shall be limited to the following:
(1)
A map of the area that identifies the location of the tract to be harvested and, as to those trucks which will be traveling to and from such tract for purposes of picking up and hauling loads of cut forest products, the main point of ingress to such tract from a public road and, if different, the main point of egress from such tract to a public road;
(2)
A statement as to whether the timber will be removed pursuant to a lump sum sale or per unit sale, or an owner harvest for purposes of ad valorem taxation pursuant to O.C.G.A. § 48-5-7.5;
(3)
The name, address, and daytime telephone number of the timber seller if the harvest is pursuant to a lump sum or per unit sale or of the timber owner if the harvest is an owner harvest; and
(4)
The name, business address, business telephone number, and nighttime or emergency telephone number of the person or firm harvesting the timber.
(b)
Notice may be submitted in person, by mail, by transmission of an electronic record via telefacsimile, e-mail, or through such other means as approved by the governing authority, or by mail.
(c)
The governing authority may require persons or firms subject to such notice requirement to deliver a bond or letter of credit as provided by this subsection, in which case notice shall not be or remain effective for such harvesting operations unless and until the person or firm providing such notice has delivered to the governing authority or its designated agent a valid surety bond, executed by a surety corporation authorized to transact business in this state, protecting the county or municipality, as applicable, against any damage caused by such person or firm in an amount specified by the governing authority but not exceeding $5,000.00 or, at the option of the person or firm harvesting timber, a valid irrevocable letter of credit issued by a bank or savings and loan association, as defined in code section 7-1-4, in the amount of and in lieu of such bond. There shall not be required no more than one bond from each person or firm harvesting timber regardless of the number of tracts harvested in such county by each such person or firm so long as the bond remains in effect. Otherwise, a valid replacement bond must be obtained and delivered to the governing authority of such county or its designated agent no later than the close of business on the fifth business day following the day that such governing authority filed a claim to recover damages against the then-existing bond. Upon filing such claim such governing authority shall immediately provide notice thereof, including the date such claim was filed, to the person or firm causing the damage. Such notice may be given in person, by transmission of an electronic record via telefacsimile, or by e-mail. For purposes of this subsection, any such surety bond or letter of credit shall be valid only for the calendar year in which it is delivered.
(d)
Notice shall be effective for such harvesting operation on such tract within such unincorporated area of the county upon receipt of the same by the applicable governing authority or its designated agent and, if applicable, compliance with the requirements surety as set forth in this section, and until such time as the person or firm giving such notice has completed the harvesting operation for such tract; provided, however, that any subsequent change in the facts required to be provided for purposes of such notice shall be reported to the governing authority or its designated agent within three business days after such change.
(e)
Violation of the notice requirements shall be punishable by a fine not exceeding $500.00.
(f)
The governing authority shall not require a fee of any kind for receiving a notification of a timber harvest.
(Ord. of 2-26-2003, § 4; Ord. of 6-18-2015(1))
Sec. 18-45. - Obstructing, injuring, etc., public roads.
(a)
It shall be unlawful for any person to obstruct, encroach upon, solicit the sale of any merchandise on, or injure materially any part of any public road. For purposes of this article, the term "obstruct" shall include, without limitation, the causing of any buildup of rock, gravel, mud, dirt, chemicals, or other materials by continued ingress of vehicles or of any natural waters dammed or redirected by diversion to an extent which presents a hazard to the traveling public.
(b)
Any person who unlawfully obstructs, encroaches upon, or injures any public road in the county shall be responsible for reimbursing the county for the costs of removal of said obstructions or encroachments and the costs of repairs to the public road incurred by the county, including any costs associated with traffic management; provided, however, that such costs shall be limited to those costs which are directly incurred from such damages. Costs incurred for traffic management may include, but not be limited to, costs incurred for flagging, signing, or provision of detours, provided that these activities are directly caused by the obstruction, encroachment, or injury to the public road system. The court may, in addition to any other sentence authorized by law, order a person convicted of violating this section to make such restitution for the offense.
(Ord. of 2-26-2003, § 5)
Sec. 18-46. - Repeal of any existing county ordinance or resolution in conflict with this amendment.
(a)
There is hereby repealed any and all ordinances, resolutions, or parts thereof, in conflict with the amendment [from which this section is derived] to the existing timber harvesting ordinance, said previous timber harvesting ordinance having been adopted on February 26, 2003, and the amendment [from which this section is derived] to the same having been made on the 18th day of June, 2015, to become effective July 1, 2015.
(Ord. of 6-18-2015(1))
