ARTICLE IV. - NORTHWEST GEORGIA TRADE AND CONVENTION CENTER

Sec. 6-486. - Applicability of chapter.
All other sections of this chapter not inconsistent with this article shall apply.
(Ord. of 9-7-1999, § 1(4-404))
Sec. 6-487. - License required.
No person shall sell or offer for sale or pour or offer to pour any alcoholic beverages in the Northwest Georgia Trade and Convention Center without first having applied for and received an appropriate license from the city.
(Ord. of 9-7-1999, § 1(4-401))
Sec. 6-488. - Authority license authorized.
If otherwise qualified, the Northwest Georgia Trade and Convention Center Authority is authorized to apply for and to obtain licenses to sell alcoholic beverages by the drink within the confines of the Northwest Georgia Trade and Convention Center. The costs of such licenses shall be the same as the costs for a preferred caterer or concessionaire for similar licenses as provided in section 6-73 of the Code.
(Ord. of 9-7-1999, § 1(4-402); Ord. No. 06-04, § 1, 2-6-2006)
Sec. 6-489. - Minimum policy guidelines.
The following shall be the minimum policy guidelines the Northwest Trade and Convention Center Authority shall use in regulating the consumption and sale of alcoholic beverages on the premises of the Northwest Georgia Trade and Convention Center:
(1)
No alcoholic beverage shall be sold, dispensed or given away at youth-oriented events. The management of the Northwest Georgia Trade and Convention Center, in its sole discretion, will determine whether an event is youth oriented.
(2)
No alcoholic beverages shall be sold, dispensed or given away at religious-oriented functions unless requested by the lessee.
(3)
No alcoholic beverage shall be sold, dispensed or given away to anyone under 21 years of age. It shall be the policy of the Northwest Georgia Trade and Convention Center to ensure that identification of those who purchase or consume alcoholic beverages are checked to determine whether the person is 21 years of age or older.
(4)
The selling and dispensing of alcoholic beverages shall be curtailed prior to the conclusion of a public event.
(5)
Only designated areas shall be used for selling or dispensing or consuming alcoholic beverages. These areas are to be designated by the management of the Northwest Georgia Trade and Convention Center.
(6)
Alcoholic beverages will not be permitted to be taken out of the Northwest Georgia Trade and Convention Center.
(7)
Only the licensee will be permitted to sell or dispense alcoholic beverages.
(Ord. of 9-7-1999, § 1(4-403))
