ARTICLE V. - STORAGE OF WASTE AND JUNK[5]

Footnotes:
--- (5) ---
Cross reference— Solid waste, ch. 94.

Sec. 50-146. - Definitions.
The following words, terms and phrases, when used in this article, shall have the meanings ascribed to them in this section, except where the context clearly indicates a different meaning; a word not defined in this section shall have the meaning stated in the Standard Building Code, Standard Mechanical Code, Standard Plumbing Code, Standard Gas Code or Standard Fire Prevention Code. A word not defined in the standard code shall have the meaning given in Webster's Ninth New Collegiate Dictionary, as revised:
Building means any structure built for the support, shelter or enclosure of persons, animals, chattels or property of any kind which has closing walls for 50 percent of its perimeter.
Inoperable motor vehicle means a motor vehicle which cannot be driven upon the public streets for reasons including but not limited to being unlicensed, wrecked, abandoned, in a state of disrepair or incapable of being moved under its own power.
Nonresidential property means all property, whether or not vacant, except for property on which families or households live in buildings and in which sleeping accommodations are provided.
Premises means a lot, plot or parcel of land including the buildings or structures thereon.
(Ord. of 6-3-1996(1), § 1(a), (b), (d), (e))
Cross reference— Definitions generally, § 1-2.
Sec. 50-147. - Purpose.
The mayor and council find that there is a need in the city to prohibit the storage of waste and junk on the exterior of a building on nonresidential property and vacant lots and it is in the best interest of the health, safety and welfare of the citizens of the city to provide an enforceable penal code for any violation of such regulation.
(Ord. of 6-3-1996(1), § 2)
Sec. 50-148. - Additional provisions.
This article shall be in addition to any and all other applicable statutory, regulatory or ordinance provisions, whether federal, state or local, and shall not be construed to repeal any other provision of local law.
(Ord. of 6-3-1996(1), § 5)
Sec. 50-149. - Duties of owners and occupants.
(a)
It shall be unlawful for the owner or occupant of any nonresidential property to utilize the premises outside of any building thereof for the open storage of any inoperable motor vehicle, icebox, refrigerator, stove, glass, building material, building rubbish, manufacturing equipment, storage racks or similar items, except where there is a fence of sufficient height and opacity to keep such storage from view from persons off the property.
(b)
It shall be the duty and responsibility of the owner or occupant of every nonresidential property or vacant lot in the city to keep the premises clean and remove from the premises all such abandoned items as set forth in subsection (a) of this section, including but not limited to weeds, dead trees, trash and garbage, upon notice from the building inspector.
(c)
A violation of this section 50-149 shall constitute a public nuisance.
(Ord. of 6-3-1996(1), § 3; Ord. No. 03-20, § 1, 8-18-2003)
Sec. 50-150. - Notice of violation.
(a)
The building inspector or his designee shall issue written notice to the owner and/or occupant of any nonresidential property or vacant lot in the city that is in violation of section 50-149 of the Code.
(b)
The written notice shall:
(1)
Contain a general description of the conditions that constitute the violation;
(2)
Contain a statement that the described conditions constitute a public nuisance under section 50-149 of the Code.
(3)
State a date certain by which the violating condition or conditions must be corrected. Said date shall not be less than ten days or more than 30 days from the date of the notice unless the building inspector determines, in his discretion, that an immediate correction is necessary as an eminent danger to public health, safety or welfare exists.
(4)
State that if the violations are not corrected within the stated time as set forth in the notice, the building inspector shall institute legal proceedings to abate the nuisance.
(Ord. of 6-3-1996(1), § 4; Ord. No. 03-20, § 2, 8-18-2003)
Sec. 50-151. - Delegation.
The mayor and council are authorized to enter into an intergovernmental agreement with the county to provide for the administration and enforcement of this article by the building inspection department of the county. For so long as such intergovernmental agreement is in effect the term "building inspector" as used in this article shall mean the building inspector of the county or his designee. At all times, and in any event, the city police department is authorized to enforce the provisions of this article.
(Ord. No. 09-30, § 2, 9-21-2009)
Secs. 50-152—50-175. - Reserved.
