Chapter 46 - EMERGENCY SERVICES[1]
Footnotes:
--- (1) ---
Cross reference— Businesses, ch. 26; civil emergencies, ch. 34; fire prevention and protection, ch. 54; law enforcement, ch. 66.
State Law reference— Installation and maintenance of electronic security systems by municipalities, O.C.G.A. § 36-60-12.

ARTICLE I. - IN GENERAL

Secs. 46-1—46-25. - Reserved.
ARTICLE II. - ALARM SYSTEMS

Sec. 46-26. - Definitions.
The following words, terms and phrases, when used in this article, shall have the meanings ascribed to them in this section, except where the context clearly indicates a different meaning:
Automatic dialing device means any device connected to an alarm system which automatically sends a prerecorded message or coded signal indicating the activation of the alarm system to a predetermined location.
Automatic response alarm system means a device intended to detect and signal intrusion into a closed premises or upon a premises or to signal a robbery and which will signal an alarm system business, monitoring station or other entity.
False alarm means the activation of a burglary and/or robbery alarm at a time when no burglary or robbery is being committed or attempted on the premises.
Independent alarm system means a device intended to detect and signal intrusion into a closed premises or upon a premises or a robbery and which does not automatically signal an alarm system business, monitoring station or other entity.
Multiple alarm sites means more than one alarm system on the premises.
Nuisance alarm means the activation of any alarm system caused by mechanical failure, malfunction, improper installation, lack of proper maintenance, or any other cause other than accidental, negligent or intentional misuse of the system.
Response means the dispatch of police officers to the premises where an alarm system has been activated indicating a burglary and/or robbery in progress on those premises.
(Ord. of 10-16-1995(2), § 12-240; Ord. No. 08-12, § 1, 7-21-2008)
Cross reference— Definitions generally, § 1-2.
Sec. 46-27. - Penalties.
Any person or entity violating this article shall be subject to a civil fine of not less than $100.00 and not more than $1,000.00 by the municipal court for each offense.
(Ord. of 10-16-1995(2), § 12-244; Ord. No. 08-12, § 2, 7-21-2008)
Sec. 46-28. - Automatic dialers; automatic response alarm systems.
It shall be unlawful to key automatic dialer burglar alarms or robbery alarms or any automatic response alarm system (burglary or robbery) to any city or police department telephone number or location. Such alarms shall only be keyed to a private answering service who can then notify the police department.
(Ord. of 10-16-1995(2), § 12-241)
State Law reference— Operation of alarm system by municipality, O.C.G.A. § 36-60-12.
Sec. 46-29. - Automatic cutoff system.
All audible alarms, sirens, bells or horns shall have an automatic cutoff so that the alarm will not operate for more than 30 continuous minutes after activation.
(Ord. of 10-16-1995(2), § 12-243)
Sec. 46-30. - False alarms.
(a)
Police. For a police response to any false alarm of an automatic alarm response system or independent alarm system, the chief of police or his designee shall charge and collect from the person using or maintaining the automatic response alarm system or independent alarm system fees as follows:
(1)
For a first or second response to the premises at which no other false alarm has occurred within a calendar year period, no fee shall be charged;
(2)
For a third response to a false alarm within a calendar year, no fee shall be charged, but notice shall be given to the person using or maintaining the alarm system of the false alarms and the requirements of this article, including the fee requirement for any subsequent false alarm responses by the police within the calendar year;
(3)
Upon a fourth response to a false alarm at the premises within a calendar year, a fee of $100.00 shall be charged to the person occupying the premises;
(4)
Upon a fifth response within a calendar year, a fee of $125.00 shall be charged; and
(5)
For all succeeding responses within a calendar year, a fee of $150.00 shall be charged per response.
(b)
Fire.
(1)
It shall be unlawful for a person or entity having or maintaining an automatic response alarm system to allow more than three false alarms or nuisance alarms for fire in any calendar year. For the first three responses to premises at which no other false alarm or nuisance alarm has occurred within a calendar year, no citation shall be issued, but the person having or maintaining the automatic response alarm system shall promptly make a written report to the fire chief or the chief's designee on forms prescribed by the fire department setting forth the cause of the false alarm or the nuisance alarm, the corrective action taken, whether the alarm has been inspected by an authorized service technician and such other information as the fire chief or the chief's designee may require to determine the cause of the false alarm and corrective action necessary. The fire chief or the chief's designee shall give notice to the person or business having or maintaining the alarm system of the conditions and requirements of this article, including the range of potential fines.
(2)
After the third response to a false alarm or a nuisance alarm at a premises within a calendar year, for any additional response to a false alarm or a nuisance alarm at such premises in the same calendar year, the fire chief or his designee shall cite to the municipal court the person or entity having or maintaining the alarm system on the premises. A person or entity found to have violated this section shall be subject to a civil fine of $150.00 for the first violation in a calendar year, a civil fine of $300.00 for the second violation in a calendar year, a civil fine of $500.00 for the third violation in a calendar year, and a civil fine of $750.00 for each additional violation in a calendar year.
(3)
After the third response to a false alarm or nuisance alarm at the premises within a calendar year, the person or entity having or maintaining the automatic response alarm system at such premises shall subject to a fee of $250.00 if the fire department is required to remain on the scene for purposes of investigation, or corrective action for more than 45 minutes from the time of arrival to termination of the incident. The fee shall be billed by the fire department, and the failure to timely pay the same shall a violation of this article and shall subject the responsible party to citation to the municipal court.
(4)
Regardless of the number of false alarms in a calendar year, if a false alarm is a result of failure to take necessary corrective action prescribed by the fire department, the fire chief or the chief's designee may order the disconnection of the alarm system. It shall be unlawful to reconnect the alarm system until such corrective action has been taken and the fire chief or the chief's designee has been notified in writing of the corrective actions taken, provided that no disconnection shall be ordered as to any premises required by law to have an alarm system in operation. The city shall be exempt from such fees and fines on alarm systems installed in city-owned facilities within the boundaries of the city.
(Ord. of 10-16-1995(2), § 12-242; Ord. No. 08-12, § 3, 7-21-2008)
