ARTICLE XII. - LICENSING AND REGISTRATION[19]

Footnotes:
--- (19) ---
Editor's note— Although not expressly amendatory thereof, 1895 Ga. Laws, page 206, from which this article is derived, has been codified as superseding 1888-89 Ga. Laws, page 895, §§ 1 and 2, authorizing the mayor and council to require registration of businesses and to impose penalties for failing to register.
Charter cross references—Authority to provide for manner of issuance, use of special tax and licenses, § 11-13; alcoholic beverage dealers, § 11-16.
State Law reference— Municipal occupation taxes for certain salespersons and merchants, O.C.G.A. § 48-5-354.

Sec. 12-1. - Authority to require registration, fix license fees.
The mayor and council of said city [are authorized] to require every person, firm, company, and corporation, whether resident in said city or not, engaged in, or about to engage in, any business, trade, calling or profession within the said corporate limits, to register annually their names and their business, trade, calling or profession in the office of the clerk of the council, in a book to be kept by him for said purpose, at such times and under such regulations as said mayor and council may prescribe by ordinance; and to fix license fees to be paid by the persons, firms, companies and corporations whose names and business, trade, calling or profession are required to be registered under the provisions of this act [article].
(1895 Ga. Laws, page 206, § 1)
Sec. 12-2. - Authority to enact schedule of license fees; payment required; duration of registration.
Said mayor and council be, and they are, hereby authorized and empowered to arrange and fix a schedule of license fees to be paid annually by persons, firms, companies, and corporations engaged in, or proposing to engage in, any business, trade, calling or profession, that may be required to be registered under the provisions of this act [article]; and every person, firm, company or corporation engage in, or proposing to engage in, any such business, trade, calling or profession, except such persons as are engaged in such business, trade, calling or profession as is now exempt from municipal tax or license by general law, shall pay such license fee as may be fixed by the mayor and council for conducting such business in said city, to the clerk of the council, and his receipt therefor shall be a sufficient license for prosecuting such business in said city for one year from the date of such registration.
(1895 Ga. Laws, page 206, § 2)
State Law reference— Professions and businesses, O.C.G.A. tit. 43.
Sec. 12-3. - Execution to enforce collection of license fees.
In default of the payment of any license fee chargeable and required to be paid under the provisions of this act [article] execution shall be issued against the person, firm, company or corporation making such default, as against a defaulting taxpayer, and such execution shall be enforced in the same manner as tax executions are enforced by the authorities of said city.
(1895 Ga. Laws, page 206, § 3)
State Law reference— Executions and judicial sales, O.C.G.A. § 9-13-1 et seq.
Sec. 12-4. - Penalty for engaging in business without paying license fee.
The mayor and council be, and are, hereby authorized to impose a fine not to exceed six hundred dollars ($600.00) upon any person, firm, company or corporation who shall engage in or prosecute any business, trade, calling or profession required to be registered in said city, without paying the license fee therefor; and to enforce such fine by imprisonment of such person, or the members of such firms, or the managing officer or agent of such corporation.
(1895 Ga. Laws, page 206, § 4)
Editor's note— As instructed by the city, "$100.00" has been changed to "$600.00" in the above section.
Sec. 12-5. - Authority of mayor and council to implement provisions of article.
The mayor and council be, and they are, hereby authorized to designate by ordinance what businesses, trades, callings and professions shall be subject to license fees, and to provide for carrying out all the provisions of this act [article] by appropriate ordinances.
(1895 Ga. Laws, page 206, § 5)
