ARTICLE VII. - POLICE AND FIRE DEPARTMENTS[10]

Footnotes:
--- (10) ---
Editor's note— 1937 Ga. Laws, page 1723, §§ 1—10, providing for a police department under the supervision of a police commission, have been effectively superseded by 1945 Ga. Laws, page 593, §§ 2—28, hence said §§ 2—10 have been deleted. An ordinance of August 7, 1989, § 2, amended the provisions of art. VII by striking the term "civil service commission" wherever it appeared and inserting in lieu thereof the words "public safety commission."

Sec. 7-1. - Creation; composition; supervision by public safety commission.
There is hereby created for the City of Dalton a police and fire department to consist of a chief of police and such other police officers, and a fire chief, and such other firemen, as may be determined by the public safety commission, consisting of five (5) members to be appointed by the mayor and council of said city as is hereinafter provided, and such commission shall be charged with the administration of the affairs of said departments.
(1945 Ga. Laws, page 593, § 2; Ord. No. 00-26, § 1(7-1), 12-4-2000)
Sec. 7-2. - Promulgation of rules and regulations.
Said public safety commission may from time to time make such rules and regulations as they may think proper for the proper conduct of the affairs of such commission and the police and fire departments, and for the proper administration of the civil service regulations of the commission. The said commission is hereby authorized and directed to make and formulate any and all rules and regulations necessary under civil service, for the proper control and administration of the said police and fire departments.
(1945 Ga. Laws, page 593, § 14)
Sec. 7-3. - Appointment, term, compensation of public safety commission.
The public safety commission shall consist of five commissioners appointed by the mayor and council and each such member shall serve a five-year term. Provided, however, the mayor and council at their first regular meeting held during the year 2001 shall appoint one commissioner to serve one-fifth of a full term or one year; appoint one commissioner to serve two-fifths of a full term [or two years]; appoint one commissioner to serve three-fifths of a full term or three years; appoint one commissioner to serve four-fifths of a full term or four years; and appoint one commissioner to serve a full term of five years. Any vacancy in a term of a member shall be filled for the expiration of that term by appointment of the mayor and council. Upon the expiration of the term of service of any member so appointed, the mayor and council shall appoint a member for a full term.
(1945 Ga. Laws, page 593, § 3; Ord. No. 00-26, § 2(7-3), 12-4-2000)
Sec. 7-4. - Organization of public safety commission, formulation of rules and regulations.
Within fifteen (15) days after the election of said public safety commission by the mayor and council of the City of Dalton, the members of said commission shall meet and elect one of its members as chairman of said commission and one of its members as secretary of said commission. Immediately upon organizing said commission, said commission shall take any and all steps that are necessary, and formulate any and all rules and regulations necessary to put the police and fire departments of the City of Dalton on a civil service basis.
(1945 Ga. Laws, page 593, § 4)
Sec. 7-5. - Services of city attorney to public safety commission.
The city attorney of the City of Dalton shall render such services as is [are] required by said public safety commission.
(1945 Ga. Laws, page 593, § 22; Ord. of 8-7-1989, § 5)
Sec. 7-6. - Status of departments.
Every member of the police force and every member of the fire department of the City of Dalton shall be continued under civil service; each member of the police department and each member of the fire department shall have equal rank and rating under such civil service, with the exception of the chief of police and the chief of the fire department; at the next regular meeting of the public safety commission after the approval of this act, which such meeting shall be held within sixty (60) days after approval of this act, said public safety commission shall formulate a schedule and plan of personnel organization for the police department and a schedule and plan of personnel organization for the fire department, creating and establishing such positions and ranks for such organization as it may deem necessary and desirable.
Such schedule and plan thus formulated by said commission shall be presented to the mayor and council of the City of Dalton for approval, and upon such approval thereof by the mayor and council, said mayor and council shall set and fix salaries for each classification of rank and rating. Upon such approval by the mayor and council, the public safety commission shall have the duty and authority to assign personnel from the respective departments to such positions and ranks, under rules and regulations adopted by said commission. Thereafter, all such appointments to the respective positions and ranks, and the tenure of personnel thereto and therein[,] shall rest in the discretion of the public safety commission.
It is further provided that all future appointments to the police and fire departments of the City of Dalton shall be made by the public safety commission, subject to the rules and regulations for civil service adopted by said commission.
(1945 Ga. Laws, page 593, § 5; 1965 Ga. Laws, page 3109, § 1; 1972 Ga. Laws, page 3721, § 1)
Sec. 7-7. - Oath of office.
Immediately upon the election of the public safety commissioners, police officers, and firemen, they shall take oath as prescribed in the charter of the City of Dalton.
(1945 Ga. Laws, page 593, § 13)
Sec. 7-8. - Public safety commission seal.
The City of Dalton public safety commission may adopt an official seal for use on its official documents and/or any subpoenas issued by the City of Dalton public safety commission. Upon adoption of said seal the same shall be kept at all times in the custody and control of the duly appointed secretary of the City of Dalton public safety commission.
(Ord. of 8-7-1989, § 3)
Editor's note— Section 3 of an ordinance of August 7, 1989, did not specifically amend the charter; therefore, inclusion as § 7-8 was at the discretion of the editor.
Sec. 7-9. - Age requirements for employment.
No person shall be employed by the public safety commission of the City of Dalton for work as a mandate peace officer or mandate peace officer in training or certified firefighter or certified firefighter in training unless such person has reached the age of twenty-one (21) years which shall be established by a birth certificate or other proper proof of age acceptable to the public safety commission.
(1958 Ga. Laws, page 2105, § 1; Ord. of 8-7-1989, § 4)
Sec. 7-10. - Bond of chief of police; amount, conditions.
The police chief of the City of Dalton, Georgia, and his delegate levying officer, shall give fidelity bond to the City of Dalton, Georgia, with good and sufficient surety authorized to transact business in the State of Georgia and acceptable to the mayor and council of the City of Dalton, Georgia, in an amount not less than one hundred thousand dollars ($100,000.00). Further, the mayor and council of the City of Dalton, Georgia, shall be empowered to increase the amount of said fidelity bond from time to time by resolution in their discretion.
(1937 Ga. Laws, page 1723, § 11; Ord. of 8-7-1989, § 7)
Sec. 7-11. - Reserved.
Editor's note— An ordinance of August 7, 1989, § 7, repealed § 7-11 in its entirety. Former § 7-11 was concerned with the authority of chief of police to give surety company bond, and derived from 1939 Ga. Laws, page 265, § 6.
Sec. 7-12. - Duties of chief of police, transfer of collection duties; bond of collecting officer.
The duties of said chief of police shall be such as conferred by an act approved February 24, 1874, amending and codifying the various acts conferring upon the marshal of the City of Dalton, with the exception that the power to levy fi. fas., collect past due taxes, collect licenses from or against any defaulting person, firm, corporation or association shall be transferred to a member of the police department to be designated by the said commission, and said officer so designated shall give a bond in the amount of one hundred thousand dollars ($100,000.00) payable to the mayor and council of the City of Dalton, for the faithful performance of his duties. The premium of said bond shall be paid out of the treasury of the City of Dalton. The chief of police shall be responsible to the public safety commission for such other duties and responsibilities as may from time to time be placed upon the chief of police by the public safety commission of the City of Dalton.
(1945 Ga. Laws, page 593, § 6; Ord. of 8-7-1989, § 7)
Charter cross reference—Duties, bond of collecting officer, § 5-12.
Sec. 7-13. - Chief of police to prosecute offenders.
The chief of police shall be required to prosecute before the superior court of Whitfield County all offenders; and for this purpose the said chief of police shall have power and authority to examine all places where he suspects a violation of the laws of this state to be carried on; and shall have power and authority to call to his aid any and all of the male citizens of said city capable of bearing arms, and shall report all offenders against the penal laws of this state to the recorder, whose duty it shall be upon such to issue a warrant or warrants binding over such offenders to appear before the proper tribunal to answer such charge.
It shall further be the duty of the chief of police, whenever it shall come to his knowledge, that any ordinances under this charter have been violated, to arrest the person or persons whom he may have reason to believe guilty of such violations, and as soon as convenient after such arrest to bring such person or persons before the recorder, who, after hearing the evidence concerning such violation, shall determine whether the person or persons so brought before him be guilty of such violation; and if found guilty, the recorder shall adjudge what punishment shall be inflicted upon such person, and the chief of police shall execute such judgment. If it be not convenient for the chief of police to bring any person or persons so arrested by him before the recorder, he may temporarily imprison the person or persons so arrested, until he can conveniently bring such person or persons so arrested before the recorder; provided, such temporary imprisonment shall not exceed twenty-four (24) hours.
(1853-54 Ga. Laws, page 237)
Sec. 7-14. - Authority of chief of police to remove nuisances.
The chief of police shall also be empowered to remove all nuisances within the corporate limits of the city.
(1853-54 Ga. Laws, page 237)
Charter cross reference—Power of mayor and council to abate nuisances, § 4-9.
State Law reference— Nuisances, O.C.G.A. tit. 41; nuisances in cities, O.C.G.A. § 41-2-5.
Sec. 7-15. - Chief of police to collect, account for fines and fi. fas.
The city council may in their discretion require the chief of police to collect and account for all fines and fi. fas.
(1853-54 Ga. Laws, page 237)
Sec. 7-16. - Duties of fire chief.
The duties of the fire chief shall be those duties as are now imposed by the fire chief of the City of Dalton by law, and [he] shall be responsible for other duties and responsibilities as may from time to time be placed upon the fire chief by the public safety commission.
(1945 Ga. Laws, page 593, § 7)
Sec. 7-17. - Chiefs constituted heads of departments; tenure, status, removal.
The chief of police and the chief of the fire department of the City of Dalton, shall be the head of their respective departments, and shall hold office for a period of two (2) years, and until their successors are qualified, but either may be removed, demoted or discharged at any time by the public safety commission of the City of Dalton, if either shall be convicted, after an open hearing before the commission, of any misconduct, insubordination or violation of any of the rules of the commission.
(1945 Ga. Laws, page 593, § 8)
Sec. 7-18. - Supervision, control of police officers, firemen; hearing on suspension.
All police officers shall be subject to the direction and control of the chief of police, and all firemen shall be subject to the direction and control of the chief of the fire department, and they shall have the right to suspend any officer or fireman for incompetency, insubordination, or misconduct, and report such suspension to the public safety commission. Immediately upon suspension of any policeman or fireman, the chief of police or fire chief, as the case may be, shall report such suspension to the public safety commission of the City of Dalton, and such commission shall immediately serve upon such suspended party a copy of the charges against him, and at their next regular meeting shall hear and determine the truth of said charges, at an open hearing, and if said commission shall determine said charges are true, it may either suspend or discharge such policeman or fireman, as the facts in the case may warrant.
(1945 Ga. Laws, page 593, § 9)
Sec. 7-19. - Salaries.
The salary of the chief of police and the chief of the fire department, and all officers and firemen, shall be fixed by the mayor and council at the last meeting of said mayor and council in each year, and said salaries shall not be changed for a period of one year.
(1945 Ga. Laws, page 593, § 10)
Editor's note— Although not expressly amendatory thereof, the foregoing section has been codified as superseding that part of 1939 Ga. Laws, page 965, § 6, providing that the salaries of the chief of police and all police officers be fixed by the mayor and council.
Sec. 7-20. - Reserved.
Editor's note— An ordinance of August 7, 1989, § 6, repealed § 7-20 in its entirety. Former § 7-20 was concerned with reinstatement of personnel after service in armed forces, and derived from 1945 Ga. Laws, page 592, § 12.
