Chapter 34 - SUBDIVISIONS[1]

Footnotes:
--- (1) ---
State Law reference— Recording of maps and plats, O.C.G.A. § 15-6-67 et seq.; subdivisions abutting state highways, O.C.G.A. § 32-6-150 et seq.; the Zoning Procedures Laws, O.C.G.A. § 36-66-1 et seq.; Georgia Land Sales Act, O.C.G.A. § 44-3-1 et seq.

Sec. 34-1. - Regulations adopted by reference.
(a)
Except where such regulations may otherwise conflict with specific provisions contained within chapter 42, pertaining to zoning, the county subdivision regulations, as adopted and amended through May 22, 2008, are hereby adopted as the subdivision regulations of the city and are incorporated by reference into this chapter as fully as though set out at length herein. A current copy of the subdivision regulations shall be maintained on file in the office of the city clerk where it shall be available for public inspection.
(b)
Where reference is made in the county subdivision regulations to the duties of certain officials named therein, the city manager or his designee shall be deemed to be the responsible official for the city insofar as administrating and enforcing the provisions of the regulations is concerned.
(c)
Where reference is made in the county subdivision regulations to the duties of certain county departments, boards, committees, or advisory groups named therein, shall be deemed to be the mayor and city council or their designee insofar as administrating and enforcing the provisions of the regulations is concerned.
(d)
Where reference is made in the county subdivision regulations to a specific article or section of the county zoning ordinance, it shall be deemed to be a reference to similar subject matter as it appears in the corresponding article or section of the city's zoning regulations contained in chapter 42.
(e)
The following words, terms and phrases, when used in the county subdivision regulations, shall have the meanings ascribed to them in this subsection, except where the context clearly indicates a different meaning:
Board of county commissioners means the mayor and council of the City of Lake City, Georgia.
County means the City of Lake City, Georgia.
County zoning ordinance means chapter 42 of the Lake City Code, pertaining to zoning.
Jurisdiction means the City of Lake City, Georgia.
Local enforcement authority means the City of Lake City, Georgia.
Local government means the City of Lake City, Georgia.
Local permitting authority means the City of Lake City, Georgia.
(Code 1994, § 92-1)
Sec. 34-2. - Conflicts.
(a)
In the event that the county subdivision regulations in any way conflict with the provisions of chapter 42, pertaining to zoning, said chapter 42 shall prevail.
(b)
Where general subdivision and construction requirements of the county subdivision regulations conflict with specific subdivision and construction requirements in the city Code, including but not limited to floodplain management, soil erosion and sedimentation control, grading, stormwater management, driveways, outdoor parking and display areas of businesses, stream buffer protection regulations, conservation subdivision development, house numbering, landscaping of commercial and professional building lots, and road construction for commercial and residential construction projects, then the provisions concerning the specific subdivision and construction requirements in the city Code shall prevail.
