ARTICLE II. - FINANCIAL INSTITUTIONS[2]

Footnotes:
--- (2) ---
State Law reference— Local depository financial institutions business license tax, O.C.G.A. § 48-6-93.

Sec. 12-27. - Definitions.
The following words, terms and phrases, when used in this article, shall have the meanings ascribed to them in this section, except where the context clearly indicates a different meaning:
Gross receipts means the total amount of revenue generated from the following sources during the calendar year immediately preceding the date on which the tax imposed by section 12-28 is due:
(1)
Items to be included in the calculation of gross receipts with the respect to banks are as follows:
a.
Interest and fees on loans, less any interest collected on those portions of loans sold and serviced for others;
b.
Interest on balances with other depository financial institutions;
c.
Interest on federal or correspondent funds sold and securities purchased under agreements of resale;
d.
Interest on other bonds, notes and debentures, excluding interest on obligations of the state or its political subdivisions and obligations of the United States;
e.
Dividends on stocks;
f.
Income from direct lease financing;
g.
Income from fiduciary activities;
h.
Service charges on deposit accounts;
i.
Other service charges, commissions and fees; and
j.
Other income.
(2)
Items to be included in the calculation of gross receipts with respect to savings and loan associations are as follows:
a.
Interest on mortgage loans, less any interest collected on those portions of loans sold in service for others;
b.
Interest on mortgages, participations or mortgage-backed securities;
c.
Interest on real estate sold on contract;
d.
Discounts on mortgage loans purchased;
e.
Interest on other loans, excluding obligations of the state or its political subdivisions and obligations of the United States;
f.
Interest and dividends on investments and deposits;
g.
Loan fees;
h.
Loan servicing fees;
i.
Other fees and charges;
j.
Gross income from real-estate-owned operations;
k.
Net income from office building operations;
l.
Gross income from real estate held for investment;
m.
Net income from service corporations and subsidiaries;
n.
Miscellaneous operating income;
o.
Profit on sale of real-estate-owned operations, investment securities, loans, and other assets; and
p.
Miscellaneous nonoperating income.
(3)
The following items shall be deducted from gross receipts calculated pursuant to subsection (1) or (2) of this definition:
a.
An amount equal to the amount of interest paid on all liabilities for the period;
b.
An amount equal to income derived from the authorized activities of any domestic international banking facility operating pursuant to O.C.G.A. § 7-1-730 et seq.;
c.
An amount equal to any income arising from the conduct of a banking business with persons or entities located outside of the United States, its territories or possessions;
d.
To the extent that any deductions are made pursuant to subsections (3)b and (3)c of this definition, any deductions taken under subsection (3)a of this definition shall be reduced by the same proportion that the deductions in subsections (3)b and (3)c of this definition bear to the gross receipts of the depository financial institution as calculated before making any deductions pursuant to subsections (3)a through (3)c of this definition.
(Code 1994, § 22-26; Ord. of 10-8-1985, § 2)
Sec. 12-28. - Business license tax.
Pursuant to O.C.G.A. § 48-6-93, there is levied upon state and national banking associations, federal savings and loan associations and state building and loan associations a business license tax at the rate of 0.25 of one percent of the gross receipts of such institutions. Notwithstanding any other section of this article, the minimum amount of business license tax due from any depository financial institution pursuant to this article shall be $1,000.00 per year.
(Code 1994, § 22-27; Ord. of 10-8-1985, § 1)
Sec. 12-29. - Due date of tax, filing return.
(a)
Each depository financial institution within the city shall file a return of its gross receipts with the city on March 1 of the year following the year in which such gross receipts were measured. The returns shall be in the manner and in the form prescribed by the commissioner of the department of banking and shall be based upon the allocation method set forth in O.C.G.A. § 48-6-93(d). The tax levied pursuant to this article shall be assessed and collected based upon the information provided in the return.
(b)
The due date of taxes levied pursuant to this article shall be April 1 of each year.
(Code 1994, § 22-28; Ord. of 10-8-1985, § 3)
Secs. 12-30—12-46. - Reserved.
