ARTICLE IX. - PAWNBROKERS AND PRECIOUS METALS DEALERS[7]
Footnotes:
--- (7) ---
State Law reference— Pawnbrokers generally, O.C.G.A. § 44-12-130 et seq.; municipal authority to license and regulate pawnbrokers, O.C.G.A. § 44-12-136; duties of purchasers of gold bullion, gold dust, etc., O.C.G.A. § 12-4-120 et seq.; dealers in precious metals and gems, O.C.G.A. § 43-37-1 et seq.; dealers in used watches, O.C.G.A. § 43-49-1 et seq.

DIVISION 1. - GENERALLY

Sec. 12-255. - Definitions.
The following words, terms and phrases, when used in this article, shall have the meanings ascribed to them in this section, except where the context clearly indicates a different meaning:
Dealer in precious metals and gems means a person, whether known as a redemption center, gold and silver dealer, pawnshop or any other name, either owner or manager, whose business involves receiving by buying or trading of, for or in precious metals such as gold or silver or platinum, including coins, and the receiving by buying or trading jewelry, gems or precious or semiprecious stones; however, the term shall not include purchases from licensed wholesalers in the normal course of business nor shall it include pawnbrokers who only take precious metals or gems on pawn or pledge.
Employee means any person employed or allowed to perform duties, whether or not such person receives a salary, wages or other compensation or consideration, but not including the person covered on the license or renewal application.
Goods means the same as its normal meaning and the term should further be construed in the broadest sense allowable and should include all forms of personal property.
Owner means any person or partner or stockholder owning 25 percent or more of a business.
Pawnbroker means any person who shall in any manner lend or advance money or other things for profit on the pledge or possession of personal property or other valuable things other than securities or written evidences of indebtedness or who deals in the purchasing of personal property or other valuable things on condition of selling such back to the seller at a stipulated price.
Person means individual, firm, corporation, partnership or any other entity.
(Code 1994, § 74-1)
Sec. 12-256. - State law.
This article is to be construed as consistent with state law. However, this article is to be applied in lieu of state law and state fee and registration requirements whenever possible. It is the intent of the mayor and council that all duties delegated to the chief law enforcement officer of the city shall be exercised as provided in this article.
(Code 1994, § 74-3)
Sec. 12-257. - Violations; penalties.
(a)
Any person licensed under this article shall be guilty of an offense if such person shall:
(1)
Fail to make any entry of any required item in the permanent record book.
(2)
Make any false entry therein.
(3)
Falsify, obliterate, record so that information is illegible, or destroy or remove from his place of business such permanent record book.
(4)
Refuse to allow any duly authorized law enforcement officer to inspect such permanent record book or any goods in his possession, during the ordinary hours of business or any reasonable time, or refuse to allow any member of the general public to inspect goods in his possession being held under pawn or purchase, within the 15-day purchase and 30-day pawn dates, pursuant to section 12-268, during ordinary hours of business.
(5)
Be convicted or plead nolo contendere to any crime prohibited by this section.
(6)
Fail to maintain a record of each pawn or purchase transaction for at least four years.
(7)
Violate any other section of this article.
(b)
Operation of any business under this article in violation of this article shall constitute a separate offense for each day of operation.
(Code 1994, § 74-4)
Sec. 12-258. - Exclusions, exceptions.
Businesses which limit the purchase of used valuables to the acceptance of trade-ins for credit for new goods or the dispensing of refunds in regard to valuables previously purchased from the business shall not be required to comply with this article.
(Code 1994, § 74-5)
Sec. 12-259. - Location of business.
All businesses licensed under this article shall be located in strict compliance with chapter 42, pertaining to zoning, and at a location with an identifiable street address, which shall be stated on the license or renewal application, along with other required information. No business licensed under this article shall change its address without giving advance notice to the city clerk, the code enforcement officer and the police department and receiving approval of the change, such approval being granted if the new location complies with this article and chapter 42, pertaining to zoning. No such business shall be operated in or from a motel or hotel.
(Code 1994, § 74-6)
Sec. 12-260. - Records.
All pawnbrokers and dealers of precious metals and gems, in addition to other records, shall keep books wherein shall be entered an accurate description of all property received by or pledged or sold to them. Such description shall include the brand name of the article; any identifying mark, number, initial, social security number or name of any person or company; and a statement of the kind of material of which it is made. In such books there shall be entered also the name, age, address, signature and identification number from a driver's license or similar identification of the person by whom the property was delivered, deposited or sold; the name of the broker, agent or employee receiving the item; the time when such transaction occurred; the price paid for the goods purchased; and the check number issued, if applicable. These entries shall be made no later than one hour after the transaction. A permanent bound set of the pawn tickets shall constitute the book required by this section. All books and records required by this article and items pledged or sold shall at all times be subject to inspection and examination by any law enforcement officer of the city or the state. Any person engaged in any business licensed under this article who shall fail or refuse to keep the records as provided in this article or who shall make false entries concerning the transaction or who shall fail or refuse to permit an inspection by any law enforcement officer of the city or the state of such records and of the property with or sold to them shall be guilty of a violation of this article.
(Code 1994, § 74-7)
Sec. 12-261. - Standard forms required.
All businesses licensed under this article shall use a standard form for pawn and a standard form for purchase, and no ticket may be used for a dual purpose. Standard forms may differ only by the name of the business and business' address. The design of this form shall be provided by the city and the forms shall be numbered and chronologically used and sent to the police department. Each number missing from the chronological sequence shall be considered a separate violation of this article.
(Code 1994, § 74-8)
Sec. 12-262. - Accepting articles without making required records.
No business licensed under this article shall take any item in pawn or purchase, taking full or possession title thereto, without entering each transaction of such goods on the books and on the standard forms as provided in sections 12-260 and 12-261.
(Code 1994, § 74-9)
Sec. 12-263. - Daily report to police.
Every business licensed under this article shall make a daily report in writing to the police department of all property pledged or purchased during the 24-hour period ending at 10:00 p.m. on the date of the report. Such reports shall be legibly written or typed in English and shall show the following:
(1)
Name and address of the business;
(2)
Time of transaction;
(3)
Sequel number of the pawn or purchase tickets;
(4)
Amount paid or advanced;
(5)
Full description of articles, including kind, style, material, color, design and number of stones in jewelry and all identifying names, marks, numbers, initials or social security numbers; and
(6)
A description of the person selling or pawning the item, including name, address, race, weight and height, and a description of the identifications presented by the person selling or pawning the item.
(Code 1994, § 74-10)
Sec. 12-264. - Identification required.
All businesses licensed under this article shall, when receiving in pawn or in purchasing goods, require a proper identification, driver's license or military ID card or state-approved ID card containing a picture and showing positive identification of the person who is pawning, selling or bartering and shall verify the identification. A photograph or videotape of such person shall also be made.
(Code 1994, § 74-11)
Sec. 12-265. - Fingerprint required.
Every business licensed under this article shall require every person from whom it accepts goods on pawn or purchase to place the fingerprint of his right index finger (if right index finger is missing, the next finger in line will be used) in ink on the front of the copy of the pawn or purchase ticket which is to be sent to the police department.
(Code 1994, § 74-12)
Sec. 12-266. - Retention period for purchased articles.
Every business licensed under this article shall, unless sooner released to the owner, hold, on the premises designated in the license for doing business, every item required to be listed under section 12-260 for at least 15 days before disposing of the item by sale, transfer or shipment. This section shall not apply to purchases from licensed wholesalers in the normal course of business.
(Code 1994, § 74-13)
Sec. 12-267. - Retention period for pawned articles.
Every business licensed under this article which takes goods on pawn shall hold such goods for at least 30 days, unless redeemed by the owner or on authority of the owner, before disposing of the goods by sale, transfer, shipment or otherwise.
(Code 1994, § 74-14)
Sec. 12-268. - Display of goods pledged or purchased.
For a period of 15 days from the date of purchase and 30 days from the date of pledge, unless redeemed by or on authority of the person who pledged the goods, all goods purchased or pawned pursuant to this article and required to be listed under section 12-260 shall be kept on the premises designated in the license for doing business. Every item required to be kept on the premises under this section shall have attached to it either a copy of the form required in section 12-261 or the number of such form. Any person desiring to examine any merchandise shall first obtain a copy of a police department incident or stolen property report. Upon presentation of a copy of such report to any licensed dealer or employee and upon giving in writing to such dealer a full description of the stolen items sought, including all identifying characteristics, his name, address, signature, identification and incident or stolen property report number and issuing department, such individual shall be allowed to examine any merchandise of the type described on the premises. Such written information shall be kept in sequential, dated order in a permanent file or book. This record shall be kept in addition to all other records required in this article.
(Code 1994, § 74-15)
Sec. 12-269. - Alteration of articles.
Any item required to be kept or displayed under sections 12-266 through 12-268 shall be kept in its original form as it existed when first purchased, and its physical characteristics shall not be altered in any material or immaterial manner.
(Code 1994, § 74-16)
Sec. 12-270. - Erasures, obliterations or changes in records.
No person licensed under this article shall erase, obliterate, type over, write over or in any way cause the original entry on the records required under this article to become illegible. All pawn or purchase tickets filled out in error shall be sent to the police department in their numbered order along with daily reports and shall have the term "void" typed or written across the front. Such entry shall not be used to cause the original entry to be illegible. If an error is made and the ticket is still to be used, a single line shall be drawn through the incorrect entry. This line shall not cause the original entry to be illegible, and the correct information entry shall be made on the next available area.
(Code 1994, § 74-17)
Sec. 12-271. - Records maintained for four years.
The record of each pawn or purchase transaction regulated by this article shall be maintained for a period of not less than four years from the date of the transaction.
(Code 1994, § 74-18)
Sec. 12-272. - Hours of operation.
Every business licensed under this article shall close its establishment and cease transacting any business no later than 10:00 p.m. each day and shall not begin its operation and commence transacting business before 7:00 a.m. each day.
(Code 1994, § 74-19)
Sec. 12-273. - Dealing with minors.
It shall be unlawful for any person licensed under this article to receive in pawn or in purchase any goods of any character or of any description from any person who has not attained the age of 17 years.
(Code 1994, § 74-20)
Sec. 12-274. - Transactions conducted outside building.
No business transaction by any business licensed under this article shall be conducted outside the building designated as the normal place to conduct transactions. The term "business transaction" means any part of business including inspection or appraisal of any goods when it is possible for such goods to be taken inside the building where transactions normally are made (the term "possible" being used in the broadest sense), and no person other than a person possessing a license or employee permit shall be allowed to conduct any form of business transaction either inside the establishment or on any part of outside land area covered under address of the license.
(Code 1994, § 74-21)
Sec. 12-275. - Accepting articles with serial numbers removed, altered or obliterated.
No business licensed under this article shall accept any article that has had the serial number altered, obliterated or removed from such article or which the person who is making the business transaction knows should have a serial number on it. Licensees shall immediately report any attempted business transactions of this nature to the police department.
(Code 1994, § 74-22)
Sec. 12-276. - Nonformed precious metals.
It shall be unlawful for any person licensed under this article to purchase precious metals in a melted, smelted or nonformed state unless the purchase is from a registered dealer in precious metals.
(Code 1994, § 74-23)
Sec. 12-277. - Stolen items.
Every person licensed under this article shall, immediately upon request, turn over to the police department every item believed by the police department to be a stolen item. The police department shall furnish a property receipt including a case number of recovery to the dealer surrendering such item. The item shall be returned to the licensee only after it has been determined that such item is not stolen. If it is determined that such item is stolen, it shall be returned to its lawful owner.
(Code 1994, § 74-24)
Sec. 12-278. - Access from separate business establishment.
No business licensed under this article shall be designed or operated so as to allow immediate access to the business from any other business without first exiting the other business into a common or open area to which the public at large has access.
(Code 1994, § 74-25)
Secs. 12-279—12-304. - Reserved.
DIVISION 2. - BUSINESS LICENSE AND EMPLOYEE PERMIT

Sec. 12-305. - License required.
(a)
Every person doing business in the city as a pawnbroker or dealer in precious metals or gems, prior to commencing business, shall make proper application for and receive the appropriate business license as set forth in this division.
(b)
No application for a license to do business as a pawnbroker or dealer in precious metals and gems shall be considered, approved or issued where the number of such licenses issued and in effect at the time of such application number one for each 5,000 residents according to the latest decennial census figures available. Licenses to pawnbrokers dealing exclusively with pawns of car titles shall not exceed one license for every 1,000 residents according to the latest decennial census figures available. In making this computation, fractions of population shall not be considered.
(Code 1994, § 74-46)
Sec. 12-306. - Employee permit.
Each person authorized or allowed to work, whether or not for compensation, in any place of business covered under this division shall be considered an employee and must have an approved employee permit. This permit must be displayed along with the business license.
(Code 1994, § 74-47)
Sec. 12-307. - Application for license and permit.
(a)
An applicant for a license or permit under this division shall file with the city clerk a written, sworn application on a form provided by the city clerk. The application shall be signed by the applicant if an individual, by the partner making application if a partnership and by the president if a corporation. The application shall show the following:
(1)
The names of the principals, agents and employees of the applicant's business during the time that it is proposed that it will be carried on in the city; the local addresses of such persons while engaged in such business; the permanent addresses of such persons; the capacity in which such persons will act (as proprietor, agent, employee or otherwise); the name and the address of the person for whose account the business will be carried on, if any; and if a corporation under the laws of what state it is incorporated;
(2)
The fingerprints of the principals, agents or employees of the applicant's business and other evidence which establishes to the satisfaction of the city clerk, subject to the approval of the mayor and council, the good character of such persons to carry on the business;
(3)
The place in the city where it is proposed to carry on the applicant's business, the zoning district at such place and the length of time during which it is proposed that the business shall be conducted;
(4)
The place, other than the permanent place of business of the applicant, where the applicant within the six months next preceding the date of the application conducted an itinerant business, stating the nature thereof and giving the post office and street address or any building or office in which such business was conducted;
(5)
Whether or not the person having the management or supervision of the applicant's business has been convicted of any crime, misdemeanor or the violation of any municipal ordinance, the nature of such offense and the punishment assessed therefor;
(6)
Credentials from the person for which the applicant proposes to do business, authorizing the applicant to act as such representative;
(7)
If the applicant is a corporation, whether or not:
a.
Any shares in the corporation have been sold and if so to whom the shares were sold; and
b.
Majority control of the corporation has been transferred in the preceding year; and
(8)
Such other information as to the identity or character of the person having the management or supervision of the applicant's business or the method or plan of doing such business as the city clerk may deem proper to fulfill the purpose of this article in the protection of the public good.
(b)
Every applicant for a license shall post with the city clerk a surety bond in favor of the city in the amount of $8,000.00, which bond shall not be accepted unless it is with a corporate surety licensed to do business in the state and unless it is conditioned that the applicant shall comply fully with all applicable provisions of federal, state and local laws, rules and regulations concerning the activity for which the applicant is to be licensed and that the property purchased is guaranteed to be in accordance with the specifications, standards and conditions represented to the purchaser by the applicant. A blanket bond otherwise meeting the requirements of this subsection shall be accepted. In lieu of posting the bond, the licensee may post cash.
(c)
If any person shall be aggrieved by the conduct of any licensee and shall receive judgment against him therefor, such person may, after the return unsatisfied, either in whole or in part, of any execution issued upon the judgment, maintain an action in his own name upon the bond or letter of credit of the licensee in any court having jurisdiction of the amount of the judgment remaining unsatisfied.
(d)
The application shall state the following: "It is unlawful for any person to make a false statement on this application." Any false statement made on the application form will be cause to revoke the license issued thereunder and also shall constitute a violation of city ordinances.
(Code 1994, § 74-48)
Sec. 12-308. - Fees.
(a)
All businesses licensed under this division shall pay a designated license and permit fee:
(1)
Pawn shops/dealers in precious metals or gems shall pay a license fee each calendar year. This fee shall include the initial registration of the named applicant. The annual license shall be in an amount as established by the mayor and council from time to time.
(2)
Employee permit, per calendar year per application. The employee permit shall be in an amount as established by the mayor and council from time to time.
(b)
Any co-owner, agent, employee or any other person authorized to transact business other than the licensee shall be required to have the employee permit for each license he operates or transacts business under. There shall be no proration or refund of any license fee.
(Code 1994, § 74-49)
Sec. 12-309. - Character qualifications.
No license or employee permit required under this division shall be issued to continue, or be renewed for any person who conducts or is employed in a business in which such owner or employee has currently, or within five years of issuance or renewal, been convicted of or pled guilty or nolo contendere to any felony involving any federal or state offense or any federal or state misdemeanor involving theft-related offenses, alcohol, drugs or any crime of moral turpitude, and the licensee will submit the identity of all owners and employees to the city clerk on a continuing basis as changes occur. This information is to be forwarded to the police department, for the purpose of allowing a complete check in order that these character qualifications be fulfilled, prior to the issuance of or renewal of any license or permit issued.
(Code 1994, § 74-50)
Sec. 12-310. - Transferability.
(a)
Transfer of license or permit. The license and permit issued under this division, regardless of whether issued to a person, firm or corporation, shall be transferrable as to location if the new location otherwise meets all of the qualifications required by this division. A fee as established from time to time by the mayor and council shall be required for all license transfers.
(b)
Transfer of ownership interest. Any transfer of 25 percent or more of the ownership interest in a corporation which holds a license under this division shall be considered a new license application, and the transferee shall comply with this division as to application and issuance. Transfers of less than 25 percent ownership interest may be approved by the city clerk upon payment of the required transfer fee and proof that the transferee meets all standards of this article.
(c)
Suspension or revocation of proceedings. In the event proceedings have been instituted against a license holder for possible suspension or revocation of the license, no transfer of such license shall be permitted to any other person, firm or corporation.
(Code 1994, § 74-51)
Sec. 12-311. - Inspection.
As a condition of the granting of the license under this division, every licensee agrees to allow any duly authorized law enforcement officer, pursuant to his official duties, to be and remain on or about his premises without the formality of a warrant, provided the officer does not unduly interfere in the licensee's operation.
(Code 1994, § 74-52)
Secs. 12-312—12-340. - Reserved.
