Chapter 18 - ELECTIONS
ARTICLE I. - IN GENERAL

Sec. 18-1. - Adoption of state rules and regulations.
The rules and regulations promulgated by the state election board which pertain to elections, together with the provisions of the Georgia Election Code contained in O.C.G.A. title 21, are hereby adopted as the rules, regulations, and provisions that shall govern the conduct of general and special elections in this county.
(Code 2001, § 2-101)
Sec. 18-2. - Authority to conduct elections.
The governing authority may conduct the election. In the event a municipality shall by ordinance authorize such county to conduct elections, such municipality may request such county to perform any or all of the functions enumerated in the contract. Such county shall have authority to conduct elections in any and all counties in which any part of such municipality may lie. Note: County registrars follow O.C.G.A. §§ 21-2-211 through 21-2-214.
(Code 2001, § 2-102)
Sec. 18-3. - Expenses.
Such funds as are necessary for the conduct of elections and for the performance of the duties that are specified by this chapter shall be budgeted and appropriated annually, and from time to time.
(Code 2001, § 2-103)
Secs. 18-4—18-24. - Reserved.
ARTICLE II. - REGISTRATION

Sec. 18-25. - Board of elections and registration.
(a)
Pursuant to O.C.G.A. § 21-2-40 there is created the county board of elections and registration. The board shall have the powers and duties of the election superintendent of the county with regard to the conduct of primaries and elections and shall have the powers and duties of the board of registrars relating to the registration of voters and absentee balloting procedures.
(b)
Composition of board.
(1)
The board shall be composed of three members, each of whom shall be an elector and resident of the county.
(2)
No person who holds public office, whether elective or appointive, shall be eligible for appointment to the board during the term of such office; and the position of any member shall be deemed vacant upon such member either qualifying as a candidate for elective public office or accepting appointive office.
(3)
The governing authority of the county shall appoint the initial members of the board in the following manner:
a.
One member of the board shall be a member of the political party which received the highest number of votes within the county for its candidate for governor in the general election immediately preceding the appointment of the member. The appointment may be made from a list of at least five but not more than 30 candidates submitted by the county executive committee of such political party to the governing authority at least 30 days before the beginning of the term of office or within 30 days after the creation of a vacancy in the office. Anything in this subsection to the contrary notwithstanding, nothing shall affect the right of the governing authority to appoint a member of the political party whose name is not contained on said list.
b.
One member of the board shall be a member of the political party which received the next highest number of votes within the county for its candidate for governor in the general election immediately preceding the appointment of the member. The appointment may be made from a list of at least five but not more than 30 candidates submitted by the county executive committee of such political party to the governing authority at least 30 days before the beginning of the term of office or within 30 days after the creation of a vacancy in the office. Anything in this subsection to the contrary notwithstanding, nothing shall affect the right of the governing authority to appoint a member of the political party whose name is not contained on said list.
c.
The remaining member of the board, who shall serve as the chairperson, shall be appointed by the county governing authority.
(4)
Successors to members whose terms are about to expire shall be appointed to take office on January 1 immediately following the expiration of a term of office and shall serve for terms of four years each and until their successors are duly appointed and qualified. Each successor shall be appointed in the same manner as the member whose term is about to expire.
(c)
The appointment of each member shall be made by the county governing authority filing with the clerk of the superior court of the county, no later than 15 days preceding the date on which such member is to take office, an affidavit which states the name and residential address of the person appointed and certifying that such member has been duly appointed as provided in this section. That clerk of the superior court shall record each such certification on the minutes of the court, certify the name of each such member to the secretary of state, and provide for the issuance of appropriate commissions to the members and chairperson within the same time and in the same manner as provided by law for registrars. If the county governing authority does not, in conformity with this section, certify an appointment to the board no later than 30 days after the beginning of a term of office or within 30 days after the creation of a vacancy in that office, a vacancy shall be deemed to have been thereby created and the governor, pursuant to article VI, section II, paragraph VIII(a) of the constitution of the state, shall fill that vacancy by making the appointment thereto and shall certify it as provided in this section. Any person appointed to fill a vacancy shall serve out the unexpired term of office.
(d)
Each appointed member of the board shall be eligible to succeed himself/herself/themselves, without limitation, and shall have the right to resign at any time by giving written notice of resignation to the county governing authority and to the clerk of the superior court of the county. Each member shall be subject to removal from the board by the county governing authority at any time, for cause, after notice of the right to have a timely hearing, in the same manner and by the same authority as is provided for the removal of registrars.
(e)
In the event a vacancy occurs in the office of any member of the board by removal, death, resignation, or otherwise, except by expiration of term, the county governing authority shall appoint a successor to serve the remainder of the unexpired term. The successor shall be appointed in the same manner as the member whose seat is vacant. The clerk of the superior court of the county shall be notified of interim appointments and shall record and certify such appointments and changes in the same manner as the regular appointments of members.
(f)
Before entering upon his/her/their duties, each member shall take substantially the same oath as required by law for registrars. Each member shall have the same privileges from arrest as registrars.
(g)
The chairperson of the board shall be the chief executive officer of the board and shall generally supervise, direct, and control the administration of the affairs of the board pursuant to law and duly adopted resolutions of the board. The board shall fix and establish by appropriate resolution entered on its minutes directives governing the execution of matters within its jurisdiction.
(h)
The board shall be authorized to employ such full-time and part-time employees, including a full-time chief clerk, as the board shall deem necessary. The governing authority of the county shall have the right to approve the number and compensation of employees hired or retained by the board.
(i)
The board shall propose an annual budget to the county governing authority for approval detailing the expenditures necessary for the execution of its duties. With the consent of the governing authority of the county, the board of elections and registration shall be authorized to expend public funds for the purpose of distributing sample ballots, voter information booklets, and other material designed to inform and instruct adequately the electors of the county with regard to elections.
(j)
Compensation for the chairperson and other members of the board and for employees of the board shall be fixed by the board with the approval of the governing authority of the county. Such compensation shall be paid from county funds.
(k)
The governing authority of the county shall provide the board with proper and suitable offices and equipment.
(l)
The board shall have the authority to contract with any municipal corporation located within the county for the holding by the board of any primary or election to be conducted within the municipal corporation.
(m)
The terms "election," "elector," "political party," "primary," "public office," "special election," and "special primary" shall have the same meaning ascribed to those terms by O.C.G.A. § 21-2-2 unless otherwise clearly apparent from the text of this section; the term "board" means the board of elections and registration of the county created by subsection (a) of this section; the term "county" means the county; the term "governing authority" means the county board of commissioners; and the term "superior court" means the superior court of the county.
(1)
Appointment. The judge of the county superior court or the senior judge in time of service is the county has more than one judge, shall appoint quadrennially, upon the recommendation of the grand jury, not less than three nor more than five judicious, intelligent, and upright electors of the county as county registrars.
(2)
Training.
a.
The election superintendent and at least one registrar shall attend a minimum of 12 hours training biennially as may be selected by the secretary of state.
b.
The basis for the minimum requirement of training shall be two calendar years.
c.
A waiver of the requirement of minimum training, either in whole or in part, may be granted by the secretary of state, in his/her/their discretion, upon the presentation of evidence by the election superintendent or registrar that the individual was unable to complete such training due to medical disability, providential cause, or other reason deemed sufficient by the secretary of state.
d.
The cost of the training shall be borne by the governing authority from county funds.
e.
The minimum training required under this section shall not apply to deputy registrars.
(Code 2001, § 2-201)
Sec. 18-26. - Elector qualifications.
Any person desiring to vote in any, general, or special election must:
(1)
Register as an elector in the manner prescribed by law;
(2)
Be a citizen of the state and of the United States;
(3)
Be at least 18 years of age;
(4)
Be a resident of this county; and
(5)
Be possessed of all other qualifications prescribed by law:
a.
No person who has been convicted of a felony involving moral turpitude may register, remain registered, or vote except upon completion of the sentence.
b.
No person who has been judicially determined to be mentally incompetent may register, remain registered, or vote unless the disability has been removed.
c.
Any person who possesses the qualifications of an elector except those concerning age shall be permitted to register to vote if such person will acquire such qualifications within six months after the day of registration; provided, however, that such person shall not be permitted to vote in a primary or election until the acquisition of such qualifications.
(Code 2001, § 2-202)
Sec. 18-27. - Registration list and records.
(a)
The county shall maintain its own registration system. The completed registration cards and other papers of the registrars shall be kept in the main office of the board of registrars in the executive office building and shall be open to public inspection during usual business hours.
(b)
The registration cards for use by persons other than absentee applicants shall be in a form as specified by the secretary of state in accordance with O.C.G.A. § 21-2-219.
(Code 2001, § 2-203)
Sec. 18-28. - Challenge of registration list.
Any elector of the county may challenge the right of any other elector of the county, whose name appears on the list of electors, to vote in an election in accordance with O.C.G.A. § 21-2-230.
(Code 2001, § 2-204)
Sec. 18-29. - Permanency of registration.
Identification of electors with whom there has been no contact for three years shall be handled according to O.C.G.A. § 21-2-234 and any other applicable state law.
(Code 2001, § 2-205)
Sec. 18-30. - Absentee registration.
Not more than 180 days prior to the date of the primary or election, or runoff of either, in which the elector desires to vote, any absentee elector may make, either by mail, by facsimile transmission, or in person in the registrar's office, an application to the board of registrars of the county of the elector's residence for an official ballot of the elector's precinct to be voted at such primary, election, or runoff. In the case of an elector residing temporarily out of the county or a physically disabled elector residing within the county, the application for the elector's absentee ballot may, upon satisfactory proof of relationship, be made by such elector's mother, father, grandparent, aunt, uncle, sister, brother, spouse, son, daughter, niece, nephew, grandchild, son-in-law, daughter-in-law, mother-in-law, father-in-law, brother-in-law, or sister-in-law, of the age of 18 years or over. The application shall be in writing and shall contain sufficient information for proper identification of the elector; the permanent or temporary address of the elector to which the absentee ballot shall be mailed; the identity of the primary, election, or runoff in which the elector wishes to vote; the reason for requesting the absentee ballot; the name and relationship of the person requesting the ballot if other than the elector. Except in the case of physically disabled electors residing in the county, no absentee ballot shall be mailed to an address other than the permanent mailing address of the elector as recorded on the elector's voter registration record or a temporary out of county address. Relatives applying for absentee ballots for electors must also sign an oath stating that facts in the application are true. If the elector is unable to fill out or sign such elector's own application because of illiteracy or physical disability, the elector shall make such elector's mark, and the person filling in the rest of the application shall sign such person's name below it as a witness; provided, however, that one timely and proper application for an absentee ballot for use in a primary shall be sufficient to require the mailing of the absentee ballot to an eligible absentee elector who lives outside the county in which the election is held and is also a member of the armed forces of the United States, a member of the merchant marine of the United States, or a spouse or dependent of a member of the armed forces or the merchant marine residing with or accompanying said member or overseas citizen for such primary as well as for any runoffs resulting therefrom and for the election for which such primary shall nominate candidates. Further, such application for an absentee ballot to be used in any election shall be sufficient to require the mailing of an absentee ballot for any runoffs resulting from such election. In any event, a separate and distinct application for an absentee ballot shall be required for the presidential preference primary held pursuant to O.C.G.A. § 21-2-190 et seq., and for any special election or special primary.
(Code 2001, § 2-206)
Sec. 18-31. - Election identification.
Any election identification required shall be in accordance with O.C.G.A. § 21-2-417.
(Code 2001, § 2-207)
Secs. 18-32—18-50. - Reserved.
ARTICLE III. - CANDIDATES

Sec. 18-51. - Notice of candidacy, name on ballot.
Notice of candidacy shall be completed pursuant to O.C.G.A. § 21-2-132.
(Code 2001, § 2-301)
Sec. 18-52. - Notice of candidacy, write-in vote.
Notice of intent of write-in candidates shall be completed pursuant to O.C.G.A. § 21-2-133.
(Code 2001, § 2-302)
Sec. 18-53. - Campaign financing disclosure.
Each public officer shall file any required financial disclosure statements according to O.C.G.A. § 21-5-50.
(Code 2001, § 2-303)
State Law reference— Filing of financial disclosure statements; form and content, O.C.G.A. § 21-5-50.
Secs. 18-54—18-79. - Reserved.
ARTICLE IV. - VOTING

Sec. 18-80. - Election officials
(a)
Appointment. The following election officials shall be appointed by the board of elections and shall receive such compensation as is provided by same:
(1)
Election superintendent.
(2)
Chief manager.
(3)
Two assistant managers.
(4)
Clerks, as necessary.
(b)
Qualifications and powers. The election superintendent and all poll officers shall meet such qualifications and exercise all such powers and duties as are provided in O.C.G.A. title 21.
(Code 2001, § 2-401)
Sec. 18-81. - Election districts.
Boundaries for precincts shall be established pursuant to O.C.G.A. § 21-2-261.1.
(Code 2001, § 2-402)
State Law reference— Boundaries for precincts established after a certain time; O.C.G.A. § 21-2-261.1.
Sec. 18-82. - Polling places.
The polling places within the county shall be designated by the board of elections.
(Code 2001, § 2-403)
Sec. 18-83. - Date of election.
All general elections to fill county offices shall be held on the Tuesday next following the first Monday in November and on such day biennially thereafter.
(Code 2001, § 2-404)
Sec. 18-84. - Write-in votes.
In elections, electors shall be permitted to cast write-in votes, but no write-in votes may be cast in a run-off primary or run-off election. The design of the ballot card shall be permit the managers, in counting the write-in votes, to determine readily whether an elector has cast any write-in vote not authorized by law. The secretary of state, in specifying the form of the ballot, and the state election board, in promulgating rules and regulations respecting the conduct of elections, shall provide for ballot secrecy in connection with write-in votes.
(Code 2001, § 2-405)
Sec. 18-85. - Absentee ballots.
Absentee ballots shall be used in all county elections, and such use shall be governed by the provisions of O.C.G.A. ch. 21.
(Code 2001, § 2-406)
Sec. 18-86. - Vote required for election.
(a)
Candidates for nomination for any public county office in any primary, and candidates for any public county office in any election shall be nominated or elected by a plurality of the votes cast to fill such nomination or public office.
(b)
Where the county Charter does not provide for nomination or election by plurality and no candidate receives a majority of the votes cast, a runoff primary or election shall be held between the candidates receiving the two highest numbers of votes. In the case of a general primary or general election, such runoff shall be held on the 21st day after the day of holding the first primary or election, unless such runoff date is postponed by court order. In the case of a special primary or special election, such runoff shall be held not earlier than the 14th day and not later than the 21st day after the holding of the first special primary or special election, on a date specified by ordinance or resolution, unless such runoff date is postponed by court order.
(Code 2001, § 2-407)
Sec. 18-87. - Contested elections.
Petition of contest. Any person wishing to contest the results of a primary or election shall file a petition with the superintendent of elections.
(Code 2001, § 2-408)
