CHAPTER 3. - CONVEYANCES
ARTICLE I. - IN GENERAL

Sec. 3-101. - Land conveyance to Newton County.
(a)
The State of Georgia Department of Transportation is the owner of approximately three tracts of real property located in Newton County, Georgia; and
(b)
Said real property consist of all those tracts or parcels of land lying and being Newton County, Georgia, and being generally described as follows:
All that tract or parcel of land lying and being in town district, Newton County, Georgia, and being Lots Nos. 19, 20, and 21 of the E. F. Callaway subdivision, plat of which is recorded in Newton County, Georgia deed records in Plat Book No. 1, page 59, to which reference is prayed for more particular description. Each of said lots being 100 x 400 feet and join and make on tract 300 x 400 feet and bounded as follows: On east by Old Orphan's Home road; north by property of Chester Meadors; west by Howard Piper Estate; and on South by J. L. Speers."; and
(c)
In order to accommodate the request of Newton County, the department of transportation desires to sell such property to Newton County.
Sec. 3-102. - Conveyance of stained glass window to Newton County authorized.
(a)
A resolution authorizing the governor and the secretary of state to convey a certain stained glass window to Newton County; and for other purposes.
(b)
In the year 1896, Mrs. William C. Clarke did present to the State of Georgia on behalf of the Ladies Executive Committee and Newton County a stained glass window; and
(c)
Such stained glass window depicted the cultural achievements of Newton County and the history of such county; and
(d)
Such window had been an integral part of the exhibit of Newton County at the Cotton States Exposition; and
(e)
For many years the stained glass window was proudly displayed by the state in the state library; and
(f)
Now the state library has moved to new quarters and no longer has place to properly display said window; and
(g)
The citizens of Newton County are desirous to have said window returned to them;
(h)
The stained glass window above referred to is hereby declare surplus and of no further value to the state. The governor and the secretary of state are hereby authorized to return to Newton County said stained glass window.
(Approved March 25, 1958; 1958 Ga. Laws, p. 546)
Sec. 3-103. - Exchange of lands with Newton County Board of Education.
(a)
Authorizing the governor to convey certain property owned by the State in Newton County, and used for military purposes to the Newton County Board of Education in exchange for a conveyance by the Newton County Board of Education to the State of certain other land located in Newton County, Georgia, suitable for use for military purposes and acceptable by the military department for such usage.
(b)
The State of Georgia now owns certain land in the City of Covington, County of Newton, under a conveyance of the Newton County Board of Education, recorded in Deed Book Number 37, page 531 of the records of Newton Superior Court, and such land is being used by the state for military purposes.
(c)
The Newton County Board of Education is about to construct additional public school facilities and has need of said state-owned land for the construction of such facilities.
(d)
The Newton County Board of Education has agreed to remove and transfer the facilities of the state now located on such property to another location in Newton County, Georgia, equally suitable and acceptable to the state for use for such purposes, and to convey title to such other property to the State of Georgia.
(e)
Upon receipt of a conveyance from the Newton County Board of Education conveying to the State of Georgia title to another tract of land located in said county suitable and acceptable to the military department for use for military purpose, and upon the agreement in writing of said board of education to transfer present state facilities to such other site without cost to the state, the governor is hereby authorized and empowered to convey to the Newton County Board of Education all interest now held by the state in the aforesaid property in the City of Covington, County of Newton, presently employed by the state for military purposes.
(1953 Ga. Laws, p. 142)
