ARTICLE V. - MUNICIPAL COURT

Sec. 2-396. - Scope of jurisdiction.
The municipal court of this city shall try violations of municipal ordinances and shall have the power and authority to impose incarcerations or fines upon persons convicted of the offenses, with the alternative of other punishment allowed by law if such fines are not paid.
(Code 1979, § 5-101; Code 2003, § 33.01)
Sec. 2-397. - Appointment and qualifications of judge.
The judge of the municipal court shall be appointed by and shall serve at the pleasure of the mayor and city council.
(Code 1979, § 5-102; Code 2003, § 33.02)
Sec. 2-398. - Marshal.
The city marshal shall be responsible generally for seeing that the courtroom is in proper condition for sessions of court, for assisting in keeping order while court is in session and of doing such other acts of assistance as may be required of him by the judge of the court and the city clerk.
(Code 1979, § 5-103; Code 2003, § 33.03)
Sec. 2-399. - Record of cases.
A record of all cases heard in the municipal court for violation of this Code or other municipal ordinances shall be kept in a suitable bound volume by the city clerk. The record shall contain the name of the defendant, the nature of the offense charged, the final disposition of the case and the date of final disposition.
(Code 1979, § 5-104; Code 2003, § 33.04)
Sec. 2-400. - Service of summons.
Any person charged with violating any city ordinance shall receive notice by service of a summons as herein provided. The summons may be issued by the city clerk, the building inspector or any police officer of the city. The summons shall be directed to the accused and shall distinctly state the offense charged, the time and place, as far as practicable, of the offense charged and the day, hour and place of trial requiring the accused to appear before the judge of the municipal court to answer the accusation made. Service of the summons shall be made by a police officer of the city either by serving the accused personally or by leaving a copy at his most notorious place of abode, except that in the case of a summons issued for violation of laws or ordinances relating to the parking of motor vehicles, such summons may be directed to an unknown person as owner of an automobile designated in the summons and may be served upon such person by leaving a copy in or attached to such automobile.
(Code 1979, § 5-105; Code 2003, § 33.05)
Sec. 2-401. - Subpoenas.
The city clerk shall issue subpoenas for the appearance of all witnesses necessary for the prosecution or for the defense in any case pending before the municipal court. All subpoenas shall be served in the same manner as a summons.
(Code 1979, § 5-106; Code 2003, § 33.06)
Sec. 2-402. - Failure to obey summons or subpoena.
Any person who fails to appear at the time and place set out in any summons or subpoena served upon him shall be guilty of contempt of court and, upon conviction thereof, shall be punished for same.
(Code 1979, § 5-107; Code 2003, § 33.07)
Sec. 2-403. - Arrest and bond.
When a police officer has arrested any person for violation of any provision of this Code or any municipal ordinance and a trial cannot be had immediately, the officer may take a cash bond not exceeding the maximum fine for the offense, or a bond with a good security, for the appearance of such person before the judge of the municipal court. If such person fails or refuses to give a bond, the officer may confine him in the county jail until a trial can be held, provided that the mayor, in his discretion, may release such person on his own recognizance without security.
(Code 1979, § 5-108; Code 2003, § 33.08)
Sec. 2-404. - Forfeiture of bond.
Upon the failure of a person to appear in the municipal court at the time and place fixed by the summons, the judge of the court shall enter a judgment of forfeiture on any cash bond, or, in the case of a security bond, shall pass a rule requiring the principal and surety on such bond to show cause on the date named therein, which date shall not be less than ten days from the passage of such ruling, why they should not be required to pay the amount of the bond. If no sufficient cause is shown, the judge shall enter judgment against the principal and surety for the amount of the forfeited bond and shall direct the city clerk to issue execution thereon.
(Code 1979, § 5-109; Code 2003, § 33.09)
Sec. 2-405. - Court costs.
The costs which shall be charged against a defendant in excess of fines in the municipal court in the event of his conviction shall not exceed an amount set forth by the city council from time to time, which sum shall be paid into the city treasury.
(Code 1979, § 5-110; Code 2003, § 33.10)
Sec. 2-406. - Malicious prosecution.
Whenever the judge of the municipal court, after a fair and full trial, is satisfied that any case was frivolously or maliciously prosecuted, he shall assess the prosecution with the court costs and such punitive damages as he deems appropriate.
(Code 1979, § 5-111; Code 2003, § 33.11)
Sec. 2-407. - Collection of fines.
(a)
When directed by the judge of the municipal court, the city clerk shall issue executions for fines imposed by the court, including the costs, which executions may be levied upon any goods or chattels, lands or tenements of the person so fined.
(b)
At the judge's discretion, a person may be allowed to pay for fines by working for the city on city council payroll, paid minimum wage and the amount paid to the city each pay day to be determined with personal needs considered at the time. The man will be issued a check which will be returned to the city to apply on payment of fine.
(Code 1979, § 5-112; Code 2003, § 33.12)
Sec. 2-408. - Appeal.
Appeals from decisions of the municipal court shall be taken to the superior court or state court of the county in the manner provided for appeals from the court of probate.
(Code 1979, § 5-113; Code 2003, § 33.13)
Sec. 2-409. - Indigent defense program.
(a)
The city does hereby adopt and affirm the indigent defense program as a formal operating procedure of the municipal court.
(b)
The funds necessary for the operation of this program are hereby directed to be paid as approved by the court.
(Res. of 2-8-2005)
Sec. 2-410. - Court fines and costs.
(a)
Pursuant to article V of the city Charter (1989 Ga. Laws (Act No. 1989), p. 3823 et seq.), there has been established a municipal court for the city for the trial and punishment of violations of all city ordinances, and such other matters as are within its jurisdiction pursuant to state law and, pursuant to the authority of the city Charter, and O. C. G. A. § 36-3-51, the city council is authorized to exercise its legislative power to adopt ordinances relating to the property and affairs of the city and to further the judicial purposes of the municipal court of the city; and, the city council finds that it is appropriate to provide for and authorize that the municipal court of the city may assess its court fines and costs as to those offenders within the municipal court who plead guilty or who are convicted within said court, or otherwise found to be in violation of city ordinances.
(b)
Assessment of court fines and costs.
(1)
The city council does hereby approve and authorize the municipal court of the city, through its municipal judge, to promulgate and make reasonable rules and regulations necessary and proper to secure the efficient and successful administration of the municipal court, including, but not limited to, the assessment of court fines and costs, including those assessments authorized by general state statute. The municipal court of the city, through its municipal judge, shall make and adopt those rules and regulations necessary and proper for the efficient and successful administration of the court, and file said rules and regulations with the court clerk and with the city clerk.
(2)
Pursuant to article V of the city Charter, Charter section 5.15, and O.C.G.A. § 36-3-51, the city council does hereby authorize the assessment of court fines and costs as to any offender who pleads guilty, or who is convicted within the municipal court, or is otherwise found to have violated any city ordinance, and the city council does hereby authorize the municipal court of the city to assess all fines and costs of the municipal court regarding said offenders, including, but not limited to, all costs of court, all fines, all fees or assessments, including witness fees, all technology fees, all administrative costs, all probation fees or costs, and any and all other expenses allocated to the disposition of the offense by the offender. These court fines, costs and expenses may be in addition to those fines, costs, fees, and assessments imposed upon an offender by general state law.
(3)
The municipal court of the city, through its municipal judge, is hereby authorized by court rule or regulation, to adopt and promulgate a schedule of its fines, court costs, fees, and assessments, including, but not limited to, general court costs, technology fees, and probation fees and assessments, and file said schedule with the court clerk and with the city clerk. The municipal court of the city, through its municipal judge, is hereby further authorized, to amend said schedule from time to time, in order for said schedule to remain current regarding the fines and costs to be assessed by the municipal court of the city.
(Ord. of 11-10-2008(1), §§ 1—6)
Sec. 2-411. - Appointment of city solicitor.
At the organizational meeting of each new city council in January of the year following the election, the new city council can appoint the current solicitor to another term or make a new selection. The current solicitor shall be paid in accordance with such terms as are acceptable to the solicitor and the city council, and as budgeted by the city council.
(Res. No. 2016-12-13, §§ 1, 2, 12-13-2016)
Sec. 2-412. - Office of prosecuting attorney.
(a)
Title of the section. This section shall be entitled and known as: "The Prosecuting Attorney of the municipal court of the City of Blue Ridge, Georgia Ordinance."
(b)
Creation of the office of prosecuting attorney of the municipal court of the city. The city council does hereby create the office of prosecuting attorney of the municipal court of the city. The term of office of said position, compensation, duties and obligations of said position, and related matters shall be as provided hereinafter within this section.
(c)
Qualifications. The prosecuting attorney shall be at least 25 years of age, a resident of the state for at least one year, a member in good standing of the state bar, and admitted to practice before the appellate courts of the state, and be a practicing attorney with a minimum of three years' experience.
(d)
Term and compensation. The person appointed as the prosecuting attorney of the municipal court of the city shall serve in said position at the discretion of the city council, but generally for the current term of the current council. After the election of a new council, the new council shall appoint a prosecuting attorney for a term generally equal to that of the council. The city council shall have the right to remove the person appointed as the prosecuting attorney for cause or without cause at any time. Subject to the foregoing, and with the complete right of removal as provided herein, the city council may appoint a qualified person to be prosecuting attorney for a one-year term as determined within the discretion of the city council. The prosecuting attorney shall be compensated by the city as determined and agreed to by the city council with the prosecuting attorney and as provided by a resolution passed by the city council within a public meeting. The prosecuting attorney shall be entitled to be reimbursed for actual expenses also incurred in the performance of his official duties in the same manner and at the same rate as other municipal employees.
(e)
Oath. In addition to any oaths required by O.C.G.A. title 45, chapter 3, as amended, the prosecuting attorney shall also take and subscribe to the following oath: "I affirm that I will well, faithfully, and impartially and without fear, favor or affection discharge my duties as Prosecuting Attorney of the City of Blue Ridge, Georgia." The judge of the municipal court of the city, the mayor, or any other official designated by resolution of the city council shall give the oath to the person appointed as the prosecuting attorney.
(f)
Part-time position. The position of prosecuting attorney for the city shall be a part-time position, and such person appointed shall be a part-time prosecuting attorney. Any part-time prosecuting attorney of the city, any part-time assistant prosecuting attorney of the municipal court of the city, and any substitute prosecuting attorney of the municipal court of the city, due to the part-time nature of said positions, may engage in the private practice of law, but shall not practice on behalf of private clients in the municipal court of the city or appear in any matter in which that prosecuting attorney has exercised jurisdiction.
(g)
Substitute prosecuting attorney. If the prosecuting attorney is disqualified from engaging in the prosecution of a particular case or is unable to perform the duties of said office due to illness or incapacity, the city council may provide by resolution for the appointment of a substitute prosecuting attorney for such term, and at such compensation, as determined in the discretion of the city council. In order to facilitate the holding of municipal court, the judge of the municipal court, on a temporary basis, may appoint a temporary substitute prosecuting attorney so long as said appointment is not for longer than 60 days and does not require compensation greater than that being paid to the prosecuting attorney. Upon the appointment of a substitute prosecuting attorney by the city council, the judge of the municipal court of the city shall end the term of the temporary substitute prosecuting attorney. At any time in which a substitute prosecuting attorney is not available or an appointment has not been made, or a temporary substitute prosecuting attorney has not been appointed, the city attorney may serve as the substitute prosecuting attorney until such time as a prosecuting attorney, substitute prosecuting attorney, or temporary substitute prosecuting attorney is available or appointed.
(h)
Duty and authority of prosecuting attorney.
(1)
The prosecuting attorney (including any assistant prosecuting attorney, any substitute prosecuting attorney, any temporary substitute prosecuting attorney, or the city attorney acting as the prosecuting attorney, as applicable) shall have the duty and authority to represent the city:
a.
In the municipal court of the city (and which shall include any magistrate's court acting as the municipal court for the city):
1.
In the prosecution of any violation of the laws or ordinances of the city which is within the jurisdiction of the municipal court of the city and punishable by confinement or a fine or both or by a civil penalty authorized by O.C.G.A. § 40-6-163; and
2.
In the prosecution of any violation of state laws which by general law municipal courts have been granted jurisdiction to try and dispose of such offenses, specifically including those offenses described in O.C.G.A. title 3 and O.C.G.A. § 40-13-21;
b.
In the appeal of any case prosecuted in the municipal court of the city to the superior court or the appellate courts of the state;
c.
In any case in which the defendant was convicted in the municipal court of the city and is challenging such conviction through habeas corpus;
d.
To administer the oaths required by law to the bailiffs or other officers of the court and otherwise to aid the presiding judge in organizing the court as may be necessary;
e.
To aid the city police department or other agent of the city in the preparation of cases for trial; and
f.
To perform such other duties as are or may be required by law or ordinance or which necessarily appertain to such prosecuting attorney's office.
(2)
The prosecuting attorney (including any assistant prosecuting attorney, any substitute prosecuting attorney, any temporary substitute prosecuting attorney, or the city attorney, as applicable) shall have the authority to:
a.
File, amend, and prosecute any citation, accusation, summons, or other form of charging instrument authorized by law for use in the municipal court of the city;
b.
Dismiss, amend, or enter a nolle prosequi on any accusation, citation, or summons filed in the municipal court as provided by law, except that the prosecuting attorney shall not have the authority to dismiss or enter a nolle prosequi in any case in which the accused is charged with a violation of state law other than one which the municipal court has jurisdiction to try and dispose of such offense without the consent of the proper prosecuting officer having jurisdiction to try and dispose of such offense. As used in this subsection, the term "proper prosecuting officer" means, in the case of felonies, the district attorney, and in the case of misdemeanors, the solicitor-general, unless there is no solicitor-general, then it refers to the district attorney;
c.
Reduce to judgment any fine, forfeiture, or restitution imposed by the municipal court as part of a sentence in an ordinance case or forfeiture of a recognizance which is not paid in accordance with the order of the court. The prosecuting attorney may institute such civil action in the courts of this state or of the United States or any of the several states to enforce such judgment against the property of the defendant; and
d.
Request and utilize the assistance of any other municipal prosecutor, solicitor-general, district attorney, assistant district attorney, or other attorney employed by an agency of the state or its political subdivisions or authorities in the prosecution of any criminal action.
(3)
The provisions of this section shall not be deemed to restrict, limit, or diminish any authority or power of the district attorney or any solicitor-general to represent this state in any criminal case in which the accused is charged with a felony or a misdemeanor, when the municipal court is acting as a court of inquiry pursuant to O.C.G.A. title 17, chapter 7, article 2, as amended, or setting bail for any such offense, other than one which the municipal court has, by law, jurisdiction to try and dispose of.
(i)
Employees of the prosecuting attorney's office. The city council, in its discretion, may provide to the prosecuting attorney such clerical staff as is needed for the proper performance of the duties of the prosecuting attorney and may set the compensation and duties of such staff by resolution passed by the city council in a public meeting. The duties assigned to such staff shall be fixed after consultation with the prosecuting attorney and the prosecuting attorney may designate further duties, but no additional compensation, for such staff as is necessary for the proper operation of the office of the prosecuting attorney.
(j)
Notice to the prosecuting attorneys' council of the state. The municipal court clerk, the city clerk, the city attorney, or other person properly designated by the city council shall provide a copy of this section creating the office of prosecuting attorney of the municipal court of the city to the prosecuting attorneys' council of the state. The municipal court clerk, the city clerk, the city attorney, or other person properly designated by the city council shall also notify the prosecuting attorneys' council of the state of the name of any person appointed by the city council to be the prosecuting attorney of the municipal court of the city within 30 days of such appointment.
(Ord. No. 2016-12-13(2), §§ 1—13, 12-13-2016)
Secs. 2-413—2-437. - Reserved.
