DIVISION 4. - DISTRIBUTION OF LITERATURE AND SOLICITATION OF FUNDS[4]

Sec. 22-146. - Definitions.
The following words, terms and phrases, when used in this division, shall have the meanings ascribed to them in this section, except where the context clearly indicates a different meaning:
Area means any one of those areas which are numbered and circumscribed in red on the floor plan of the airport terminal building, which appears on a two-page diagram thereof, marked exhibit A, fully incorporated in this section by reference and on file in the office of the municipal clerk and the bureau of airport operations and safety.
(Code 1977, § 12-3064)
Cross reference— Definitions generally, § 1-2.
Sec. 22-147. - Scope.
Any person or organization desiring to distribute literature free of charge at any airport owned by the city or to solicit funds in the exercise of constitutional freedoms shall be permitted to do so in accordance with this article. The sale of literature shall be permitted only through airport newsstands or other appropriate concessions as determined by aviation general manager operating by virtue of a contract with the city or a contract with a city contractor. The city further prohibits the solicitation of funds which calls for the immediate exchange of such funds on the premises of the airport, except in designated locations.
(Code 1977, § 12-3061)
Sec. 22-148. - Violations.
Any violation of this division shall constitute an offense for the purposes of section 1-8.
(Code 1977, § 12-3080)
Sec. 22-149. - Registration required.
Any person desiring to distribute literature or solicit funds at assigned locations on the premises of the airport shall first register with the aviation general manager by completing a registration form setting forth the following:
(1)
If for a period longer than a single 24-hour period:
a.
Full name, mailing address, and telephone number, if any, of:
1.
The persons who will be distributing the literature or soliciting funds at the airport;
2.
The persons or organizations sponsoring or promoting distribution of literature or solicitation of funds;
3.
The contact person who will have supervision of and responsibility for the persons working at the airport;
b.
The dates on and hours during which the distribution and/or solicitation are proposed to be conducted and the duration of the proposed activities; and
c.
A description of the proposed activity, e.g., distribution of literature or solicitation of funds.
(2)
If only for a single 24-hour period:
a.
The full name of the person who will be distributing the literature at the airport;
b.
The full name, mailing address and telephone number, if any, of the contact person who will have supervision of and responsibility for the persons working at the airport; and
c.
A description of the proposed activity, e.g., distribution of literature or solicitation of funds.
(Code 1977, § 12-3062)
Sec. 22-150. - Issuance of identification card.
(a)
Upon receipt of a registration form containing the information required in section 22-149(a), the aviation general manager shall forthwith issue the person an identification card which shall indicate that person's identification number and date of expiration and shall designate to which area of the airport that person has been assigned. The aviation general manager shall exercise no judgment regarding the purpose or content of the proposed activities and shall exercise no discretion over the issuance of an identification card under this section, it being the intent of this division that the issuance of an identification card by the aviation general manager shall be a routine, clerical and mandatory function. The identification card shall be issued for a period of 30 days.
(b)
Upon receipt of a registration form containing the information required in section 22-149(b), the aviation general manager shall issue an identification card for a single period of 24 hours on a first come, first served basis for any unutilized or unassigned area of the airport that the person has been assigned. Registration forms for the identification cards to be used for Saturday and Sunday will be accepted and cards issued on the preceding Friday between the hours of 9:00 a.m. and 10:00 a.m.
(c)
Any persons distributing literature or soliciting funds shall keep the identification card on their person at all times while conducting the activity regulated hereunder and shall display such card in a conspicuous manner.
(Code 1977, § 12-3063)
Sec. 22-151. - Restricted areas.
(a)
The distribution of literature at the airport shall be conducted only in the nonsecured, public use areas defined in section 22-146. Under no circumstances shall such activity be conducted:
(1)
In any space exclusively leased to a tenant of the airport;
(2)
Within 30 feet of any security checkpoint;
(3)
In any space reserved for particular uses, such as restaurants, restroom facilities, parking areas or baggage claim areas; or
(4)
At any location on the premises of the airport not designated as an "area" in section 22-146.
(b)
The solicitation of funds and immediate receipt of such funds shall be conducted only on the sidewalk areas outside the north and south terminal buildings of the airport at locations designated by the aviation general manager. Persons conducting such activities shall not obstruct the ingress and egress of persons entering and exiting the airport terminal and shall not otherwise violate any of the regulations contained in section 22-158.
(c)
The sale of literature or other printed material other than through airport newsstands, or other appropriate concessions as provided for in section 22-147, and the solicitation of funds which calls for the immediate receipt of such funds, is prohibited in the concourses and terminal buildings of the airport.
(Code 1977, § 12-3065)
Sec. 22-152. - Number of persons involved.
(a)
The total number of persons distributing literature in areas 1 and 4 as defined in section 22-146 shall not exceed four at any one time. In areas 2, 3, 5, 6, 7, 9 and 10 the total number of persons shall be limited to two at any one time.
(b)
If two or more persons or organizations seek to use any one location at the same time, the commissioner shall assign the available areas between or among them as equally as possible.
(c)
If the number of persons desiring to distribute literature at the airport exceeds the number specified in subsection (a) of this section, the aviation general manager may impose such reasonable and equitable restrictions as to allowable dates and hours therefor as may be reasonably required to provide as fair and as equal an opportunity for all such persons, while ensuring the efficient and effective operation of the transportation functions of the airport.
(d)
The aviation general manager may move the areas for distribution of literature from one location to another and disperse such activity among the various areas upon reasonable notice to each affected person when in the judgment of the aviation general manager such is necessary to the efficient and effective operation of the transportation function of the airport.
(e)
The total number of persons soliciting funds in the areas defined in section 22-151 as designated by the aviation general manager shall be limited to two persons in each area. If the number of persons desiring to solicit funds exceeds the numbers specified in this section, the aviation general manager may impose reasonable and equitable restrictions as to allowable dates and hours therefor as may be reasonably required to provide as fair and as equal an opportunity for all persons desiring to solicit funds, while ensuring the efficient and effective operation of the transportation functions of the airport. The aviation general manager is further authorized to move the areas for solicitation of funds which seek the immediate receipt of such funds from one location to another and disperse such activity among the various areas upon reasonable notice to each affected person when in the judgment of the aviation general manager such is necessary to ensure the efficient and effective operation of the transportation function of the airport.
(Code 1977, § 12-3066)
Sec. 22-153. - Prohibited activities.
The distribution of literature and solicitation of funds referred to in this division shall be conducted strictly in conformity with the terms and conditions of this division. In conducting such activities, no person shall:
(1)
In any way intentionally obstruct, delay or interfere with the free movements of any other person or seek to coerce or physically disturb any other person.
(2)
Use any sound-amplifying or voice-amplifying apparatus or noise-making devices on the premises of the airport.
(3)
Receive or accept any payment or donation of money from any person except as provided for in sections 22-151 and 22-152.
(4)
Indicate in any way that such person is a representative of the city, the airport or any airline, or any other airport tenant.
(5)
Repeatedly attempt to give literature or solicit funds to any person who has indicated that such person does not wish to accept the literature or to make a donation.
(6)
Set up or use any table, counter or stand; however, chairs or stools may be used if approved by the aviation general manager.
(7)
Drape or attach any materials to any booth provided by the city for conducting any activities referred to in this division nor drape or attach materials to any property of the city in the area provided by the city for conducting the activities referred to in this division.
(8)
Wear or carry a sign or placard larger than two feet by two feet four inches in size.
(9)
Misrepresent such person's identity or misrepresent the organization or purpose for which funds are being solicited.
(10)
Persons shall not store any literature or any other materials in any public use area, or in any parking area, restroom facilities, terminal doors, stairways, vestibules or storage areas used by the airport and its lessees except in a carry bag which must be carried or harnessed so as not to extend beyond the holder's body width, where such materials will be an obstruction to persons using the airport facilities, or create a health, safety or security risk.
(Code 1977, § 12-3067)
Sec. 22-154. - Revocation or suspension of registration.
(a)
The aviation general manager shall be authorized to suspend or revoke the registration of any person who violates any of the terms, conditions or any of the rules and regulations of this division, provided that such suspension or revocation by the aviation general manager shall comply with the requirements of subsection (b) of this section.
(b)
Prior to any revocation or suspension, the aviation general manager shall notify in writing the registered person that such person may present any defense that such person may have to the proposed suspension or revocation. Such defense shall be presented within three days for registrants who have been granted permission to distribute literature for periods in excess of five days. For registrants who have been granted permission of periods of less than five days, such defense shall be submitted within 24 hours. Such notices shall either be delivered personally or shall be mailed to the last known address of the registrant as the same appears in the files of the department. Such notices shall set forth the grounds upon which the proposed revocation or suspension is predicated.
(c)
The aviation general manager shall further be authorized under emergency circumstances to revoke or suspend registration. If done verbally, it shall be followed by written confirmation, within 24 hours of such emergency revocation or suspension.
(Code 1977, § 12-3068)
Secs. 22-155—22-165. - Reserved.
