ARTICLE II. - NONUNIFORMED OFFICERS AND EMPLOYEES
DIVISION 1. - GENERALLY

Sec. 6-36. - Establishment of funds.
There shall be raised and established funds for the pension of all officers and employees now in active service and on the payrolls, and future officers and employees in all cities in Georgia having a population of more than 300,000, according to the United States decennial census of 1970, or any such future census.
(1927 Ga. Laws, page 265, § 1; 1972 Ga. Laws, page 3801, § 1; 1972 Ga. Laws, page 3803, § 1)
Sec. 6-37. - 1978 Pension Act.
(a)
The pension benefits provided by this section and the several subsections hereof shall be in lieu of like pension benefits provided by the existing provisions of this Act [1927 Ga. Laws, page 265, as amended].
(b)
(1) Any officer or employee coming under the terms of this Act who is in the employment of the city prior to the effective date of this amendment may elect to come under the provisions of this amendment by making written application to the board of trustees. The applicant must agree in writing to accept the benefits and obligations of this amendment, in lieu of other pension benefits and obligations under this Act, as amended.
All such officers and employees in the employment of the city on the effective date of this Act who do not in writing agree to accept the benefits and obligations of this amendment shall have their rights and obligations determined under the law as it existed prior to this amendment, even though such provisions of law are specifically repealed as hereinafter set forth.
All regular officers or employees of the city, eligible for participation in this Act, as amended, who shall be elected or employed after the effective date of this Act, shall be required to come under provisions of this Act, as now amended, and shall have all rights and duties provided in the amended Act. Temporary and casual employees shall not be required to participate in this Act, as amended.
(2)
Pension Application; Procedure. Unless the pension applicant withdraws a pending application for pension benefits, or abandons his or her appeal from the denial of such application by the board of trustees, no new application for a different category of pension benefits shall be accepted by the board of trustees. Further, whenever an officer or employee has been granted a certain category of pension benefits, no new application for a different category shall be accepted by the board of trustees. (1981 Ga. Laws, page 4376, § 1)
(c)
All officers and employees, who shall elect or required to come under the terms of this amendment, may as a matter of right retire from active service and receive a monthly pension benefit hereinafter set forth and referred to hereinafter as a "normal monthly pension benefit," provided such person shall have served 15 years in the active service of such city and shall have attained the age of 60 years prior to commencement of such benefit. Upon such officer or employee retiring as a matter of right, such person shall be paid thereafter a normal monthly pension benefit equal to two percent of such person's average monthly earnings multiplied by the number of such person's years, or fraction thereof, of creditable service and that normal pension benefit shall not exceed 100 percent of such person's average monthly earnings. Average monthly earnings shall be the average of the monthly earnings of the highest three consecutive years' salary or earnings during the term of employment. In computing the average monthly earnings, if the officer or employee shall have received a lump sum payment for compensation, accumulated vacation, sick leave bonus pay, or similar benefits, the amounts of such payments shall be equally distributed over the period of time in which such compensation or benefit was earned or accumulated.
Effective September 1, 2005, the following employees shall be eligible to participate under the terms of this act:
(1)
An employee of the City of Atlanta who was participating under the terms of this act on August 31, 2005;
(2)
An employee of the City of Atlanta who transfers his account balance under the City of Atlanta Defined Contribution Plan to the fund established under this act pursuant to section 6-102;
(3)
An employee of the City of Atlanta who commences or recommences permanent, full-time employment on or after September 1, 2005 as a classified employee, as defined in section 114-84 of the Code of Ordinances of the City of Atlanta;
(4)
An employee of the City of Atlanta who commences or recommences permanent, full-time employment on or after September 1, 2005 at payroll grade level 18 or below;
(5)
A permanent, full-time employee of the City of Atlanta who is either a classified employee, as defined in section 114-84 of the Code of Ordinances of the City of Atlanta, or employed at grade level 18 or below and who on or after September 1, 2005 ceases to be ineligible to participate under the terms of this act by reason of being a non-civilian employee in the Department of Fire Services or a sworn officer of the Department of Police Services; and
(6)
An employee of the Atlanta Independent School System who is not covered under the Teachers Retirement System of Georgia.
Notwithstanding the foregoing, an individual who is or at any time becomes a temporary or casual employee, an employee hired on a contract basis, an employee with an account balance under the City of Atlanta Defined Contribution Plan who has not elected to transfer his account balance to the fund established under this act pursuant to section 6-102, a non-civilian employee in the Department of Fire Services or a sworn officer of the Department of Police Services shall not be eligible to participate under the terms of this act while classified as one of the foregoing. Furthermore, civilian employees hired as police recruits or fire recruits in anticipation of becoming sworn officers of the Department of Fire or Department of Police shall be ineligible to participate under the terms of this act. All employees eligible to participate under this act shall be required to do so.
(d)
All officers and employees, who shall elect or be required to come under the term of this amendment, may as a matter of right retire from active service and receive an early retirement benefit, hereinafter referred to as "early monthly retirement benefit," provided such person shall ha e served 15 years in the active service of such city. When such officer or employee shall elect early retirement as a matter of right, such person shall be paid thereafter an early monthly retirement benefit equal to a normal monthly pension benefit less one-half of one percent per month for each month not to exceed 60 months that the officer or employee lacks in being 60 years of age and one-fourth of one percent per month for each month in excess of 60 months that the officer or employee lacks in being 60 years of age. Provided, however, as to any officer or employee coming under the terms of this act who was in the employment of such city prior to the effective date of this amendment, such officer or employee may elect a monthly pension benefit, hereinafter referred to as a "reduced monthly pension benefit," provided such person shall have served 25 years and shall have attained the age of 55 years. Said reduced monthly pension benefit shall be equal to a normal monthly pension benefit less one-twelfth of two percent per month for each month the officer or employee lacks in being 60 years of age.
(e)
(1) Whenever any officer or employee, electing to or having been required to come under the terms of this amendment, shall have completed at least five (5) years of active service with such city and not yet have reached the age of 60 years, then such person shall have the right to terminate such person's employment with such city upon completion of said five (5) years, or any time thereafter; elect not to withdraw or have paid to such person the amount which said person would have paid into the pension fund prior to terminating such employment; and upon subsequently attaining 60 years of age commence to receive at said time, and be paid thereafter a monthly pension benefit, hereinafter referred to as a "vested monthly pension benefit," as set forth below based upon the number of years of completed service:
a.
Completion of 10 or more years of service—A normal monthly pension benefit (100% vested).
b.
Completion of less than 10 years of service—-the vesting schedule is as follows:
Completion of 9 years = 45% Completion of 8 years = 40% Completion of 7 years = 35% Completion of 6 years = 30% Completion of 5 years = 25% Completion of less than 5 years = 0%
Should such person have provided for the payment of a pension to a beneficiary, as authorized by said Act, as amended, by making the required payment or contribution to the pension fund, then after terminating the employment with such city, thereby electing to exercise such person's vesting rights, and upon the death of such officer or employee, either before or after attaining 60 years of age, such beneficiary designated under the terms of this Act, as amended, shall be entitled to a beneficiary pension equal to three-fourths of the amount the pensioner was receiving or such person would have received in accordance with the applicable provisions of this Act, as amended.
(2)
Pension Benefits; No Simultaneous Payment of Benefits and Salary; No Entitlement to Interest.
a.
Whenever an officer or employee has been declared eligible for pension benefits, such pension benefits shall only commence the day following the last day of paid employment for such city.
b.
In each and every instance where pension benefits shall become payable pursuant to this Act, as amended, such payments shall be limited to the statutorily required amount as provided by this Act, as amended, and shall be exclusive of interest or other amounts. (1981 Ga. Laws, page 4376, § 5)
(f)
No department head who elects to come under the provision of this Act shall be entitled to receive any emeritus salary as provided by the governing authorities of any city coming within the provisions of this Act.
(g)
(1) Any officer or employee who is a member of the pension fund shall be considered totally and permanently disabled by the board of trustees while the officer or employee is in a continuous state of incapacity due to illness or injury:
a.
During the first 12 months which the officer or employee is prevented from performing his/her regular, assigned or comparable duties; and
b.
Thereafter, if the condition continues to prevent the officer or employee from engaging in any occupation for which he/she is or becomes reasonably qualified by education, training or experience.
(2) A member who is considered by the board of trustees to be totally and permanently disabled in accordance with subsection (g)(1)a. and b. on or after January 1, 1986, shall receive a monthly disability benefit which shall commence on the day following the officer's or employee's last date on the payroll and continue until the earlier of:
a.
Cessation of total and permanent disability;
b.
Attainment of age 60.
(3) Such monthly disability benefit shall be equal to 50 percent of the officer's or employee's average monthly earnings during the highest three (3) consecutive years of service prior to the date of approval by the board of trustees or the officer's or employee's accrued normal retirement benefit, whichever is greater.
(4) Upon the cessation of disability benefits pursuant to section (g)(2)a. or b. and the officer's or employee's failure to return to city employment, the officer or employee would be entitled to a pension benefit as calculated in accordance with subsection b., c. or d. of 1978 Ga. Laws, page 4546, as applicable. Provided further, that the calculation of any such subsequent benefit shall include credit for all years and fractions thereof during the time disability pension benefits have been paid, but shall not include credit for any disability pension payments made. Provided further, that for the purposes of calculating any cost of living adjustments, the subsequent benefits shall be considered as a new pension with a new effective date.
(5) Disability pension benefits shall be offset by worker's compensation payments so that the combination of payments shall not exceed 75 percent of the officer's or employee's salary at the time disability pension benefits are to commence or 60 percent of an officer's or employee's salary at the time of disability or death in the case of a beneficiary. However, this subsection shall not affect any cost-of-living adjustments as provided in subsection (h), nor prevent the restoration of disability pension benefits payable upon the reduction or termination of any such compensation benefits payable by the city under applicable worker's compensation laws.
(6)  a. Pensions for beneficiaries designated under the terms of this Act, as amended, shall be three-fourths of the amount the pensioner was receiving, at the time of his death, as a result of retirement as a matter of right or because of total and permanent disability; or three-fourths of the amount such officer or employee would have been entitled to receive had such person retired prior to death.
b.
The pension benefits for a primary beneficiary shall be continued to the secondary beneficiary, upon the death, or ineligibility for benefits, of the primary beneficiary. Provided, however, if such primary beneficiary was not receiving the maximum beneficiary payment provided for in this Act because of any provision of this Act reducing such amount, such maximum beneficiary amount shall be paid to the secondary beneficiary, notwithstanding any lesser amount previously paid to the primary beneficiary.
c.
No spouse, designated as a beneficiary, shall be entitled to receive any of said service pension benefits unless such spouse shall have been legally married to such officer or employee of such city for a period of one (1) year prior to the death of such pensioner; provided the officer or employee has made payment for such benefits prior to retirement. No domestic partner, designated as a beneficiary, shall be entitled to receive any of said service pension benefits unless such domestic partner shall have been legally registered as a domestic partner for a period of one (1) year prior to the death of such pensioner; provided the officer or employee has made payment for such benefits prior to retirement.
d.
In determining all pensions of officers or employees referred to above, fractional parts of years of service shall be counted and accumulated annual sick leave days credited to such officer or employee shall be counted as provided for in paragraph e.
e.
In determining creditable service, accumulated, unused sick leave days credited to such officer or employee shall be added as work days to the creditable service otherwise provided by this Act, as amended. In determining average monthly earnings, such accumulated unused sick leave days shall be credited at the highest daily rate of regular salary or earnings during the highest three (3) consecutive years' salary or earnings; and all accumulated unused sick leave days shall be substituted for a like number of days at the lowest rate of regular salary or earnings during such highest three (3) consecutive years' salary or earnings during the term of employment.
f.
Any person entitled to disability benefits under the provisions of this Act, as amended, may receive benefits after he/she has been in the active employment of the city for at least a period of five (5) years. Provided, however, said requirement shall not apply to an officer or employee disabled as a direct result of a traumatic event or events occurring during and as a result of the performance of an officer's or employee's regular or assigned duties and not the result of such officer's or employee's willful negligence.
(7) Disability pensions; annual review. The retirement of a pension applicant by reason of permanent and total disability shall be subject to the following conditions:
a.
The board of trustees shall have the right to at least once a year require the pensioner to submit to a medical examination for the purpose of determining whether or not the pensioner has sufficiently recovered from his/her disability and is able to return to any occupation for which he/she is or becomes reasonably qualified by education, training or experience.
b.
If the board, after such examination, determines that the pensioner is not actually totally and permanently disabled and is able to return to any occupation for which he/she is or becomes reasonably qualified by education, training or experience, then the payment of such disability pension shall cease. (1981 Ga. Laws, page 4376, §§ 3, 7; Ord. No. 1985-94, § 1, 12-19-85; Ord. No. 1987-29, § 1, 4-8-87; Ord. No. 1994-45, § 1, 9-25-94; Ord. No. 2006-12, § 1, 3-23-06; Ord. No. 2010-32(10-O-0911), §§ 1, 2, 6-29-10
Editor's note— Ord. No. 1987-29, § 2, provides as follows: "The provisions of this amendment shall apply only to all officers and employees who are not covered by the 1986 Amendment" i.e., this subsection (g).
The ordinances listed in the left-hand column below are found in the state session laws at the location listed opposite them in the right-hand column below:
EXPAND
Georgia Laws
Ord. No. Year Page
1985-94 — —
1987-29 — —
1994-45 — —
  (h)
Any person coming under the provisions of this amendment, either voluntarily or by compulsion, shall be entitled to cost-of-living adjustments as hereinafter set forth. As used herein, the following terms shall have the following meaning:
(1) Current average cost-of-living index. The average of the monthly Consumer Price Index for the 12 month period from November 1 through October 31, prior to the annual adjustment date, as determined by the Bureau of Labor Statistics of the United States Department of Labor for all items and major groups, United States city average.
(2) Pensioner base index. The average of the Consumer Price Index for the 12 month period ending two (2) months prior to the date of retirement for any participant who retires under the provisions of this amendment. In the event the base year used in computing the monthly Consumer Price Index should be changed by the Bureau of Labor Statistics, the board of trustees shall, with the advice of an independent actuary, adjust the pensioner base index of each retired pensioner and of each pensioner or beneficiary, with benefit payments commencing during the first year in which such change was made, so as to effect the original intent of this section in an equitable manner.
(3) Adjusted pensioner index. The pensioner base index, adjusted, on a cumulative basis, for all percentage adjustments made in benefits prior to the current annual adjustment date. The adjusted pensioner index and the pensioner base index shall be applicable to any beneficiary becoming entitled to benefits under this amendment in the same manner as they would have been applicable to the pensioner had such pensioner continued in life.
(4) Annual adjustment date. January 1 of each year.
The board of trustees shall ascertain in the current average cost-of-living index as of January 1 each year, and the benefits being paid under this amendment shall be adjusted as of the annual adjustment date as follows: If the current average cost-of-living index is more than 100 percent of the adjusted pensioner index, the benefit shall be increased by a percentage equal to the difference between 100 percent and the percentage representing the current average cost-of-living index divided by such person's adjusted pensioner index. If the current average cost-of-living index is less than 100 percent of the adjusted pensioner index, such person's basic benefit shall be reduced by a percentage equal to the difference between 100 percent and the percentage representing the current average cost-of-living index divided by his adjusted pensioner index.
Notwithstanding the foregoing provisions of this subsection, no increase or decrease in the amount of the monthly retirement benefit due to changes in the current average cost-of-living index, effective at any annual adjustment date, shall be in excess of three percent (3%) of the amount of the monthly retirement benefit payable immediately prior to such date. Neither shall the provisions of this subsection be applied so as to reduce the amount of the benefits of a pensioner or beneficiary to an amount less than that to which such pensioner or beneficiary would be entitled to receive under the other provisions of this amendment.
(i)
There shall be deducted from the total salary of any officer or employee electing to come under this amendment the sum of seven percent (7%), in the event such person does not provide for payment of a pension to such person's beneficiary, as authorized by this Act, as amended, or the sum of eight percent (8%) in the event such person does provide for the continuance of a pension to such person's beneficiary. Like deductions shall be made from the salary of future employees required to come under this amendment.
(j)
(1) In addition to the payments required to be made in subsection (i) above, any officer or employee who becomes a participant under this amendment shall be entitled to all benefits and receive credit for all the years, or fraction thereof, of such person's creditable service, provided such person shall pay into the fund the sum of six percent (6%) of such person's total salary or earnings, received by such person during the years claimed for such creditable service, if such person does not provide for the payment of a pension to a beneficiary; and the sum of seven percent (7%) of such person's total salary or earnings, received during the years claimed for such creditable service, if such person does provide for the payment of a pension to a beneficiary. Payments previously made to the pension fund, not exceeding the amount due to the fund, shall be deducted from the total amount due in arriving at the total payment due, plus any additional sums as may be required by the following provisions for prior service credits. If any part of the creditable service consists of prior service, as defined by this Act, as amended, which was allowed and credited prior to this amendment, the percentages of salary or earnings, used in computing the sum to be paid for such prior service credit shall be twice those set forth above, and shall constitute both the employee and employer contributions. Provided further that payment for any such creditable service rendered on or after April 1, 1978, shall be twice the payment due as computed above.
Any officer or employee electing to come under the provisions of this amendment within 15 months subsequent to the enactment of this amendment, shall have a period of 60 months from the date of such election in which to pay all back pension contributions, as provided in this subsection, without interest. Any officer or employee electing to come under the provisions of this amendment, subsequent to the expiration of 15 months after the enactment of this amendment, shall have a period of 60 months from the date of such election in which to pay all back pension contributions, as provided in this subsection, and shall be required to pay interest on said back pension contributions at the rate of seven percent (7%) per annum from July 1, 1979, to the date of such payment. The board of trustees is authorized to establish rules and regulations for extending the period in which back pension contributions may be paid provided that interest in the amount of seven percent (7%) per annum shall be added to any amounts not paid within the above specified period. The board of trustees shall require as a prerequisite for the granting of such extension an assignment of life insurance in an amount sufficient to cover the outstanding obligation.
(2) Employee Back Pension Contributions; Deductions From Benefits; Assignment of Group Life Insurance Proceeds.
a.
In the event an officer or employee obligated to pay back pension contributions should retire or die before said payments into the fund are completed, the secretary of the retirement fund is authorized to deduct an appropriate amount, as determined by the board of trustees, from the monthly retirement or beneficiary benefits, or in lieu thereof, such lump sum amounts as the board, in its discretion, deems appropriate until the obligation is discharged.
b.
In the event an officer or employee obligated to pay back pension contributions should retire before said payments into the fund are completed, the board of trustees shall require, in consideration of the payment of such indebtedness, an assignment of such officer's or employee's group life insurance in an amount sufficient to satisfy the outstanding obligation. (1981 Ga. Laws, page 4376, § 4)
(k)
(1) Any officer or employee coming under the provisions of this amendment shall be entitled to all of the forms and types of prior service authorized under the Act approved August 20, 1927 (1927 Ga. Laws, page 265 et seq.) as amended, prior to this amendment. Provided, however, contributions for any such prior service shall be based on the salary or wages then being earned by such officer or employee as and when such person becomes eligible for such prior service and such is credited.
To be eligible for such prior service credit, the officer or employee must have completed at least five (5) continuous years in the employment of the city, and must have filed, five (5) years prior thereto, an application with the board of trustees for such prior service credit. Thereafter prior service credit may be granted to such person eligible and continuing in the service of such city on a pay period basis (one (1) year of prior service credit, not to exceed a maximum of 10 years, for each year such person continues in the service of such city) upon the payment of contributions by such person for such prior service based on the wages or salary earned by such person at the time of such prior service being credited.
The contributions to be paid by such officer or employee, herein referred to, shall be at the rates set forth in subsection (i) above, plus the rates of the employer's contribution set forth in subsection (m).
(2) Credit for previous city service, contributions, payment. Any officer or employee claiming previous service credit for previous employment as a regular, temporary, or part-time employee of the city may be eligible for previous service credit immediately upon filing application for same, and upon payment of the contribution in accordance with the provisions set forth in subsection (I) of the 1978 Pension Act Amendment (1978 Ga. Laws, pages 4546, 4553) [subsection (j) of this section]; provided, however, the penalty provision of said subsection (I) shall be applicable only to such officers or employees who failed to elect enrollment under said 1978 Pension Act Amendment prior to July 1, 1979, and who terminated employment subsequent to April 1, 1978. The total amount of such required contributions shall be increased by a sum equal to the amount paid into the pension fund by a regular officer or employee and withdrawn upon termination of employment multiplied by an interest factor of seven percent (7%) per annum compounded from the date of termination to the date of filing of the application. The total amount of such required contributions, less a sum equal to the amount previously paid into the pension fund by a regular officer or employee and withdrawn upon termination of employment, shall be increased by an amount equal to such required contributions, less the said amount withdrawn multiplied by an interest factor of seven percent (7%) per annum compounded from the date of termination or July 1, 1979, whichever is later to the date of application. The total amount of such required contribution shall be decreased by the amount previously paid into the pension fund by a regular officer or employee and not withdrawn upon termination of employment plus an amount equal to seven percent (7%) per annum compounded of such amount not withdrawn from the date of termination to the date of filing of the application. As to credit for part-time or temporary service with the city, such previous service credit shall be on the basis of one (1) day for each day worked by such person as a temporary employee or on a part-time basis, except that the required contribution shall be based upon the gross salary of such person at the time of filing of the application for previous service credit. The payment of the contributions of previous service credit for previous employment as a regular, temporary, or part-time employee of the city may be paid upon the filing of the application for such credit or such officer or employee shall have a period of 60 months from the date of filing the application in which to pay such contributions; provided, however, the total amount of such contribution shall bear interest at seven percent (7%) per annum on the unpaid balance.
The board of trustees is authorized to establish rules and regulations for extending the period in which back pension contributions may be paid provided that interest in the amount of seven percent (7%) per annum shall be added to any amounts not paid within the above-specified period. The board of trustees shall require as a prerequisite for the granting of such extension an assignment of life insurance in an amount sufficient to cover the outstanding obligation.
(3) Credit for prior service with the Atlanta Housing Authority. Any person employed by the redevelopment division of the Atlanta Housing Authority whose position, duties or functions were transferred to the city effective either November 18, 1975, March, 1978 or February 1, 1981 and who remained an employee of the City until April 1, 1992, shall be eligible immediately to receive credit for all prior service rendered by such person as an employee of the redevelopment division of the Atlanta Housing Authority upon the following terms and conditions:
a.
Such person shall make application for such credit and provide satisfactory proof of such service and earnings within ninety (90) days of the enactment of this amendment.
b.
Such person must pay into the pension fund, an amount equal to the amount they would have paid had they been an employee of the City during this period, plus seven percent per annum simple interest on that amount from the first of their employment with the City of Atlanta through June 15, 1992.
c.
Such payments for prior service credit may be paid upon filing an application for such credit or the person shall have a period of up to 84 months from the date of filing such application. Payments may be deducted from the employee's salary or from their pension benefits. Provided that the total amount due shall include interest at the rate of seven percent per annum on the unpaid balance.
d.
Any employee who after receiving credit for service with the Atlanta Housing Authority was eligible to retire under the voluntary incentive program and who submitted a retirement application between April 1, 1992 and June 15, 1992, shall be entitled to retire retroactively to June 15, 1992. Provided, however, that pension benefits will be calculated without any credit for service, benefits and salary after June 12, 1992, and shall be paid commencing the day after the employee terminates employment with the City; such employee will receive a refund of their current pension contributions paid after June 12, 1992.
e.
Entitlements specified under this subsection (3), shall be accorded to the aforementioned employees who are covered by pension provisions prior to the 1978 amendment. (Ord. No. 1992-73, § 1, 12-14-92)
Editor's note— The ordinances listed in the left-hand column below are found in the state session laws at the location listed opposite them in the right-hand column below:
EXPAND
Georgia Laws
Ord. No. Year Page
1992-73 — —
  (l)
This section and the several subsections shall be effective as of April 1, 1978, except for the provisions of subsection (m) which shall be effective as of January 1, 1979. Payments required by subsection (i) above, as to those persons then employed and electing to come under this amendment, shall commence on April 1, 1978. As to such persons subsequently coming into the service of such city or subsequently electing to participate under the terms of this amendment, said payments shall begin with the date of employment or date of such election.
(m)
(1)
In addition to the funds derived from deductions from salaries and wages, as required by subsection (i) of this amendment, it shall be the duty of the governing authority of such cities to appropriate and pay into the pension fund each year an amount which shall be equal to the actuarially determined percentage of members' salary and wages necessary to pay the normal cost contribution of benefits earned by members and to amortize the unfunded accrued liability of the pension fund on a closed 30-year schedule commencing July 1, 2011, after deducting contributions required of officers and employees required by subsection (i) of this amendment.
For purposes of paying the required employer contributions provided above, the governing authority of such cities shall be authorized to levy ad valorem taxes payable to the pension fund sufficient to amortize the unfunded accrued liability under provisions of this amendment within a closed schedule of thirty (30) years commencing July 1, 2011, and upon the determination by an independent actuarial valuation as provided in subsection (n) below that such unfunded accrued liability has been amortized, such authorization to levy such ad valorem taxes shall cease. Should said pension fund at any time be insufficient to meet and pay the pension due to such officers and employees, the governing authority shall appropriate from current funds amounts sufficient to make up the deficiency as it relates to the respective officers and employees and deposit same into said pension fund. Should such actuarial valuation as provided in subsection (n) below result in a determination that the total required employer contribution would be less than the contribution required of members by subsection (i) of this amendment, then the contributions required of members by subsection (i) of this amendment shall be reduced and the required employer contributions in this subsection shall be increased so that the member contributions required by subsection (i) will not be greater than the required employer contributions under this subsection.
(2)
Every three (3) years and prior to submitting the annual fiscal budget for that third year, the Chief Financial Officer for the City of Atlanta shall review and prepare for the chair of the finance executive committee and the boards of trustees a report on the effect the amortization schedule has upon the actuarial accrued liability for the pension funds.
(n)
When any person covered by the provisions of this Act shall die as a result of injuries incurred in the line of duty, the compensation to which such person would have been entitled had such person continued in active service shall be continued for two years by such city and paid to the primary beneficiary designated by such officer or employee. Any compensation received by the member due to said injury shall be deducted from the two years compensation herein provided for. At the expiration of the two-year period referred to above, the pension benefits due to the beneficiary shall be computed in accordance with the provisions of this amendment. The pension benefits for a primary beneficiary shall be continued to the secondary beneficiaries upon the death or ineligibility of the primary beneficiary.
The city employing any officer or employee coming under the provisions of this Act shall immediately notify the board of trustees upon the occurrence of the disability or death of any such officer or employee, and the board of trustees shall conduct an investigation within ninety (90) days of the date of the event which caused such disability or death.
Thereafter, the board of trustees shall make a determination as to whether such disability or death was incurred in line of duty or not in line of duty. Should such city, or any person having an interest in said decision, disagree with such decision of the board then either such city or such person may appeal from such decision as provided by law.
It shall also be the duty and responsibility of the board of trustees to employ an independent actuary to render an actuarial review of the pension fund at periodic intervals of no more than five (5) years, commencing with the enactment of this amendment. The term "independent actuary" as used herein means a fellow of the Society of Actuaries, or a member of the American Academy of Actuaries, or an organization of which one or more members is a fellow of the Society of Actuaries or a member of the American Academy of Actuaries, or both.
(Ord. No. 2000-13, § 1, 5-23-00; Ord. No. 2009-27(09-O-0776), § 1, 6-23-09; Ord. No. 2011-15(11-O-0674), § 1, 5-9-11)
The ordinances listed in the left-hand column below are found in the state session laws at the location listed opposite them in the right-hand column below:
EXPAND
Georgia Laws
Ord. No. Year Page
2000-13 1927 265
1978 4546
  (o)
The board of trustees is authorized to invest funds accumulated under this act in any manner permitted by the Public Retirement Systems Investment Authority Law, Ga. Stat. Ann. section 47-20-80, et seq., as amended.
(Ord. No. 1992-45, § 2, 7-28-92; Ord. No. 1994-13, § 3, 3-24-94; Ord. No. 1996-37, § 3, 6-10-96; Ord. No. 2005-81, § 1, 11-22-05)
Editor's note— The ordinances listed in the left-hand column below are found in the state session laws at the location listed opposite them in the right-hand column below:
EXPAND
Georgia Laws
Ord. No. Year Page
1992-45 — —
1994-13 — —
  (p)
Should an officer or employee in the employment of such cities transfer from a position of employment covered by another pension fund to a position of employment covered by this pension fund, the accumulated employee and employer contributions of such officer or employee paid to such other pension fund shall be transferred to this pension fund and such officer or employee shall be credited with all creditable service certified in such other pension fund as though such service had been rendered under this pension fund, and should an officer or employee in the employment of such cities subsequently become eligible for participation in the fund, the accumulated value of a defined contribution 401(a) plan may be applied towards the purchase of the full actuarial value of any prior years service credit that is eligible to such employee and such officer or employee shall be credited the full value of service as rendered under this fund in the amount of creditable service purchased based on the full actuarial value of such credit as determined by the fund's actuary, provided, however, that should such officer or employee retire as a matter of right within three (3) years subsequent to the date of such transfer. The service retirement benefits payable to such officer or employee shall be the lesser of the service retirement payable under the provisions of this Act, as amended, or the provisions of the pension fund from which such officer or employee transferred.
In addition, should an officer or employee in the employment of such cities subsequently eligible for participation in the Fund, such officer or employee shall be entitled to purchase (at the actuarial value) any prior years service credit for employment with such city. Such employee and such officer or employee shall be credited the full value of service as rendered under this fund in the amount of creditable service purchased based on the full actuarial value of such credit as determined by the fund's actuary.
(q)
Notwithstanding any other provisions of this Act, as amended, regarding the rights of officers or employees to designate beneficiaries of their pension benefits after their death, every male or female officer, coming under the provisions of this amendment, either voluntarily or by compulsion, having a spouse or unmarried child or children (natural or legally adopted) under the age of 18 years, or domestic partner shall be compelled to make the necessary additional contributions in order to provide continued pension benefits for such spouse or unmarried child or children (natural or legally adopted) under the age of 18 years, or domestic partner and designated as beneficiaries.
Nothing herein provided shall prevent an officer or employee from designating a primary beneficiary (spouse or unmarried child or children (natural or legally adopted) under 18 years of age) or domestic partner and a secondary beneficiary (either spouse or unmarried child or children (natural or legally adopted) under 18 years of age or domestic partner and not named as primary beneficiary). If an officer or employee designates a beneficiary, and thereafter such beneficiary should cease to be qualified to receive a pension in the event of the member's death, then such officer or employee may at his or her option, designate some other beneficiary who does qualify for pension benefits under this amendment, and continue to make contributions for such beneficiaries, or should no qualified beneficiary exist, cease to make further contributions for beneficiaries, in which event contributions theretofore made for the benefit of a beneficiary shall not be refunded except insofar as refunds may be allowed by other provisions of this Act, as amended.
Should any officer or employee become eligible for a service pension and thereafter remain in the service of such city, then upon the death of such person, without having retired, the spouse of such person or registered domestic partner may apply for a beneficiary pension as provided for in this amendment, which shall continue for the life of such spouse. In the event of the death or disqualification of a spouse to receive such beneficiary pension, then the unmarried child or children (natural or legally adopted) under the age of 18 years shall succeed to the rights of such deceased or disqualified spouse, as above provided, and such beneficiary pension shall be continued to such child or children until the youngest living child shall reach the age of 18 years, die, or marry, whichever event should first occur. No child (natural or legally adopted) of such officer or employee shall be entitled to receive any benefits unless such child is less than 18 years of age and unmarried or unless such child is less than 23 years of age and enrolled as a full-time student at an accredited secondary school, college or university, and unmarried.
Any officer or employee coming under the provisions of this amendment either voluntarily or by compulsion, who, at such time, has no qualified beneficiary, either spouse or unmarried child or children under 18 years of age or registered domestic partner, shall not be required to make the contributions necessary to provide for the continuation of pension benefits to a beneficiary. Provided, however, upon the occurrence of the event by which such officer or employee acquires a qualified beneficiary, then such officer or employee shall immediately commence making required contributions to provide benefits for such beneficiary and shall within a period of two (2) years thereafter, in addition to current requirements, pay into the pension find one percent (1%) of his total salary or earnings for all creditable service prior to the occurrence of such event.
Any officer or employee, electing to come under the provisions of this Act, who prior thereto had a qualified beneficiary but who had not made the contributions to provide for the payment of continued pension benefits to such beneficiary, shall be required to pay to the pension fund the amount of such beneficiary contributions for the number of years of service with such city and during which such officer or employee had a qualified beneficiary, such payments to be at the rates and in the manner as set forth in subsection (j) hereof.
In the event that a member dies after retirement, either before or after receiving retirement payments, the named beneficiary, or the member's estate in the absence of a named beneficiary, shall receive a refund in an amount equal to the amount such member paid into said pension fund less the total amount received by such member or beneficiaries in retirement benefits. (Ord. No. 1985-94, § 2, 12-19-85; Ord. No. 2006-12, § 2, 3-23-06)
Editor's note— The ordinances listed in the left-hand column below are found in the state session laws at the location listed opposite them in the right-hand column below:
EXPAND
Georgia Laws
Ord. No. Year Page
1985-94 — —
  (r)
The board of trustees may pool any amount of the funds administered by them with the funds of any other pension or retirement fund for other employees of such city for the purpose of joint investments. When such pooling occurs, the pooled trust funds shall be accounted for in accordance with generally accepted principles of accounting in order to maintain the separate accountability of such pension funds. The board of trustees may employ an independent investment counselor who shall advise them on the best and most appropriate portfolio of investments.
(s)
The city attorney shall, without extra compensation, render such legal service as the board of trustees created by this Act shall require.
(t)
Any employee participating under the provisions of this act who terminates employment before retirement shall be entitled to a refund of all monies paid into the fund established under this act by said employee, including any amounts transferred by such employee to this fund from the City of Atlanta Defined Contribution Plan (the "Defined Contribution Plan") pursuant to section 6-102 of the Code of Ordinances of the City of Atlanta that were vested under the terms of the Defined Contribution Plan at the time of the transfer but excluding any amounts so transferred that were not vested under the terms of the Defined Contribution Plan at the time of the transfer; provided, however, that such refunds shall be subject to withholding for all applicable taxes and deduction for any debts or amounts due to the employer by the employee.
(u)
Subject to approval by the United States Internal Revenue Service in accordance with IRC section 414(h), employee contributions shall be treated as employer contributions in determining tax treatment effective with the following payroll periods in 1994:
EXPAND
Groups I, III, IV, VI Pay period 6
Group II Pay period 11
Group V Pay period 3
  Such contributions shall not be included as gross income of the employee for tax purposes until such time as they are distributed or made available. The City of Atlanta and the Atlanta Board of Education shall reduce the compensation payable to a member in an amount of the contributions made on behalf of the employee.
(v)
Any officer or employee who retires pursuant to this section between August 29, 1994, and October 15, 1994, and whose age and creditable service before credit for accrued unused sick leave equals at least 75 years, shall be entitled to a monthly pension benefit upon retirement without any reduction for any age or vesting penalties as would otherwise be applicable. Provided further that such officer or employee shall receive a benefit calculated by adding three (3) years to their service.
Entitlements specified under subsection (v), above, shall be accorded to those officers and employees not covered by the aforesaid 1978 pension amendment, under applicable provisions of amendments to said law adopted prior to the 1978 amendment.
This section shall become effective for eligible school members upon approval by the Atlanta Board of Education. Said board may set an alternate time period not to exceed 60 days.
(w)
Any officer or employee whose age and creditable service before credit for accrued unused sick leave equals at least 73 years as of March 31, 1998, shall be entitled to a monthly pension benefit upon retirement without any reduction for any age or vesting penalties as would otherwise be applicable.
All officers and employees eligible to retire pursuant to this section must make written application to the pension office between February 13, 1998 and March 31, 1998.
This section shall become effective for eligible employees of the Atlanta Board of Education upon approval of the Board of Education.
(x)
Any officer or employee who was eligible to elect coverage under the pension laws as amended by Ordinance No. 1985-94 and who failed to make such election may do so by making written application on forms provided by the pension office within 60 days of the effective date of this subsection.
(y)
Involuntary separation.
(1)
Any officer or employee who is a member of the General Employee Pension Fund, who shall have served at least 15 years in the active service of the City, and who is involuntarily separated due to or in association with a Reduction-in-Force (RIF), or in conjunction with the City's reorganization and downsizing of the City's workforce and budgetary needs, but not due to disciplinary action, between January 1, 2004 and December 31, 2005, may elect to take a monthly retirement benefit to be computed as follows: Said monthly retirement benefit shall be equal to a normal monthly pension benefit less one-fourth (¼) of one percent (1%) per month for each month not to exceed 60 months that the` officer or employee lacks in being 60 years of age, and one-eighth ( 1/8 ) of one percent (1%) for each month in excess of 60 months that the officer or employee lacks in being 60 years of age.
(2)
Any former officer or employee eligible to retire pursuant to this ordinance who has been involuntarily separated due to or in association with a RIF, but not due to disciplinary action, between January 1, 2004 and December 31, 2005 in conjunction with the City's reorganization and downsizing of the City's workforce and budgetary needs, and has already applied for and/or has been granted a service pension, may make written application to the Pension Office within the two year reemployment rights period to receive the benefit authorized in subsection (a) of this Ordinance.
(3)
Any former officer or employee eligible to retire pursuant to this ordinance who has been involuntarily separated due to or in association with a RIF, but not due to disciplinary action, between January 1, 2004 and December 31, 2005 in conjunction with the City's reorganization and downsizing of the City's workforce and budgetary needs, and has applied for and received a refund of his/her pension contribution, may, within the two year reemployment rights period, repay said contribution plus interest at a rate of seven (7) percent per annum from the date of withdrawal of his/her contribution, to the date that he/she makes written application to the Pension Office for the purpose of receiving the benefit authorized in subsection (a) of this Ordinance.
(4)
This ordinance shall not apply to officers or employees who are rehired by the City of Atlanta or whose services are retained by the City pursuant to a contract; (ii) Nor shall this ordinance apply to officers or employees who reject or have rejected an offer of reemployment made by the City, to a position comparable to that from which the officer or employee was RIFFED or involuntarily separated in conjunction with the City's reorganization and downsizing of the City's workforce, budgetary needs or other purposes. For officers or employees who are RIFFED or so involuntarily separated subsequent to the enactment of this ordinance, said offer of reemployment must be made WITHIN SIX (6) MONTHS of the date of separation of any such officer or employee. For purposes of this subsection, a "comparable position " shall be defined as one for which the compensation is equal to or no less than 90% of the compensation earned by such officer or employee at the time of separation.
(z)
[Catastrophic injury.]
1.
Georgia Laws 1927, p. 265, particularly as amended by Georgia Laws 1978, p. 4546 (and as has been further amended) and codified at section 6-37, Related Laws Section of Volume I, City Charter and Code (General Employees Pension Fund) is hereby amended by providing that any City of Atlanta officers and employees who receives a catastrophic injury in the line of duty, will receive 100% of the top salary for the grade and position that he/she occupied at the time of his/her injury.
2.
The determination of whether a disability is catastrophic shall be in the sole discretion of the board by a preponderance of the evidence and as supported by official medical records, qualified medical expert opinions, sworn testimony and/or other such reliable source accepted by the board in its discretion. For the purposes of this Code Section, a catastrophic injury is a sudden, violent, life-threatening injury sustained by a member who is or was employed by the City at the time of the injury, which injury is due to an externally-caused event or events, as supported by evidence, including, but not specifically limited to, one of the conditions described below: (1) loss of sight in one or both eyes; (2) loss of one or both feet at or above the ankle; (3) loss of one or both hands at or above the wrist; (4) an injury to the spine that results in permanent and complete paralysis of both arms, both legs, or one arm and one leg, or; (5) an externally caused traumatic physical injury to the brain or skull that renders one physically or mentally unable to perform two or more Activities of Daily Living (feeding oneself, dressing, continence, bathing, toileting and transferring, i.e. getting in and out of bed), driving a motor vehicle, etc. or catastrophically disabled includes a permanent severely disabling injury or disorder that compromises the ability to carry out the activities of daily living to such a degree that the individual requires personal or mechanical assistance to leave home or bed or requires constant supervision to avoid physical harm to self or others.
3.
This ordinance shall be retroactive and those persons who have received catastrophic injuries in the line of duty, while employed as City of Atlanta officer or employee, shall be eligible for review and adjustment of their pension in accordance with this section.
4.
The Chief Financial Officer of the City of Atlanta shall identify any and all funding required to implement this ordinance.
5.
As expressed and referenced in Resolution 01-R-1940, Adopted on November 19, 2001, it is the intent of the City Council to increase the monthly benefit of General Employees as it relates to catastrophic injury, to provide that the eligibility for said increased monthly pension benefit shall be retroactive, but that the payment of said benefit shall be prospective from the effective date of the passage of an ordinance providing for such benefit, and also as referenced in Ordinance 01-O-0976, Adopted on September 17, 2001 where the definition of catastrophic injury is contained.
(aa)
Any officer or employee who is a member of the General Employee Pension Fund, and whose creditable service before credit for accrued unused sick leave equals at least 30 years shall be entitled to a monthly pension benefit upon retirement without any reduction for any age or vesting penalties as would otherwise be applicable.
(bb)
Effective May 8, 2006, an employee of the City of Atlanta who must contribute amounts to the pension fund established under this act, 1927 Ga. Laws, page 265, as amended, to purchase credit for prior service with United Water Services Atlanta or previous service with the City of Atlanta pursuant to Ordinance 03-O-0193 may contribute eligible rollover distributions, as defined in the Internal Revenue Code (the "Code"), in payment of such amounts from (i) a plan described in Code sections 401(a) or 403(a) (excluding after-tax contributions); (ii) an annuity contract or custodial account described in Code section 403(b); (iii) an eligible plan described in Code section 457(b) that is maintained by a state, a political subdivision of a state or any agency or instrumentality of a state or political subdivision of a state; and (iv) an individual retirement account or annuity described in Code sections 408(a) or 408(b) to the extent such distribution from an IRA is eligible to be rolled over and would otherwise be includible in gross income. The employee shall at all times be fully vested in any benefit attributable to such rollover contributions.
[(cc)
Involuntarily separation due to or in association with the Reduction in Force (RIF) between June 1, 2007 and June 30, 2008.]
(a)
Any officer or employee who is a member of the General Employees Pension Fund, who shall have served at least 15 years in the active service of the City, and who is involuntarily separated due to or in association with the Reduction in Force (RIF) between June 1, 2007 and June 30, 2008, may elect to take a monthly retirement benefit to be computed as follows: Said monthly retirement benefit shall be equal to a normal monthly pension benefit less one-fourth (¼) of one percent (1%) per month for each month not to exceed 60 months that the officer or employee lacks in being 60 years of age, and one-eighth ( 1/8 ) of one percent (1%) per month for each month in excess of 60 months that the officer or employee lacks in being 60 years of age.
(b)
Any former officer or employee eligible to retire pursuant to this ordinance who has been involuntarily separated due to or in association with a RIF, but not due to disciplinary action, between June 1, 2007 and June 30, 2008 and has already applied for and/or has been granted a service pension, may make written application to the Pension Office within the two year reemployment rights period to receive the benefit authorized in subsection (a) of this Ordinance.
(c)
Any former officer or employee eligible to retire pursuant to this ordinance who has been involuntarily separated due to or in association with a RIF, but not due to disciplinary action between June 1, 2007 and June 30, 2008 and has applied for and received a refund of his/her pension contribution, may, within the two year reemployment rights period, repay said contribution plus interest at a rate of (7%) seven percent annum from the date of withdrawal of his/her contribution, to the date that he/she makes written application to the Pension Office for the purpose of receiving the benefit authorized in subsection (a) of this Ordinance.
(d)
(i)
This ordinance shall not apply to officers or employees who are rehired by the City of Atlanta or whose services are retained by the City pursuant to a contract; (ii) Nor shall this ordinance apply to officers or employees who reject or have rejected an offer of reemployment made by the City, to a position comparable to that from which the officer or employee was RIFFED or involuntary separated in conjunction with the budgetary needs or other purposes. For officers or employees who were RIFFED or so involuntarily separated prior to the enactment of this ordinance, said enactment hereof. For officers of employees who are RIFFED or so involuntarily separated prior to the enactment of this ordinance, said offer of reemployment must be made within six (6) months of the enactment hereof. For officers or employees who are RIFFED or so involuntarily separated subsequent to the enactment of this ordinance, said offer of reemployment must be made within six (6) months of the date of separation of any such officer or employee. For purposes of this subsection, a "comparable position" shall be defined as one for which the compensation is equal to or no less than 90% of the compensation earned by such officer or employee at the time of separation.
(1978 Ga. Laws, page 4546, § 1; 1979 Ga. Laws, page 3606, § 1; 1979 Ga. Laws, page 3613, § 1; 1979 Ga. Laws, page 3625, § 1; 1979 Ga. Laws, page 3633, § 1; 1979 Ga. Laws, page 3637, § 1; 1980 Ga. Laws, page 3852, §§ 1, 2; 1981 Ga. Laws, page 4376, § 8; Ord. No. 1985-49, § 2, 8-9-85; Ord. No. 1994-11, § 1, 3-14-94; Ord. No. 1994-37, § 1, 8-1-94; Ord. No. 1998-2, § 1, 2-10-98; Ord. No. 1998-5, § 1, 2-23-98; Ord. No. 2004-43, § 1, 7-14-04; Ord. No. 2005-29, §§ 1—5, 5-23-05; Ord. No. 2005-53, § 1, 9-12-05; Ord. No. 2005-55, § 1, 9-12-05; Ord. No. 2005-81, § 1, 11-22-05; Ord. No. 2006-17, § 1, 5-8-06; Ord. No. 2006-64, § 1, 9-26-06; Ord. No. 2006-81, § 1, 11-28-06; Ord. No. 2007-31(07-O-0977), § 1, 5-29-07; Ord. No. 2007-59(07-O-1331), § 1, 10-10-17)
Editor's note— The ordinances listed in the left-hand column below are found in the state session laws at the location listed opposite them in the right-hand column below:
EXPAND
Georgia Laws
Ord. No. Year Page
1985-49 — —
1994-11 — —
1994-37 — —
  It should be noted that, according to sections 4 and 5 of Ord. No. 1994-37, adopted 8-1-94, approved 8-1-94:
"Based on the number of retirees, only a predeterminated number or percentage of those vacant positions can be filled and only at step one (1). To exceed this number or percentage mayor and council approval is required.
The mayor is directed to present to council by the first meeting of December, 1994, not less than 25% and up to 50% of the number of general fund positions which were vacated as a result of this early retirement program for the purpose of abolishing the positions."
Sec. 6-38. - 1978 recomputation benefits.
Any other provision of law to the contrary notwithstanding, the pension benefits of any person who on July 1, 1978, is receiving benefits which were calculated with monthly earnings being the average of the highest five (5) years' salary during the term of employment and who retired between the effective date of the 1962 amendatory Act, approved March 6, 1962 (1962 Ga. Laws, page 3140) and the effective date of the 1972 amendatory Act, approved April 3, 1972 (1972 Ga. Laws, page 3374), shall be recalculated and any such person shall receive as a matter of right a monthly pension equal to the applicable percentage for the calculation of benefits multiplied by his years of creditable service, with monthly earnings being the average of the highest three (3) years' salary during the term of employment.
(1978 Ga. Laws, page 4013, § 1)
Editor's note— The provisions compiled in the above section were enacted as an amendment to the legislation compiled in section 6-183(d).
Sec. 6-39. - Consent by applicant to participate in system.
The receipt of an applicant's executed enrollment or application card by the commissioner of finance or his agent shall constitute the irrevocable consent of the applicant to participate under the provisions of this Act, as amended, or as may hereafter be amended.
(1980 Ga. Laws, page 3691, § 1)
Sec. 6-40. - Refunds regulated.
Except upon the separation of employment other than retirement or death of an employee, or in the case of bookkeeping, clerical or data processing errors, the refund of pension contributions paid by an employee shall be prohibited.
(1980 Ga. Laws, page 3691, § 2)
Sec. 6-41. - Transfer of funds where participant appointed or elected to position having pension system.
Should any officer or employee of such city be elected by the people to hold any office or position with the State of Georgia or any political subdivision thereof which has its own pension system or systems; or should any such officer or employee be appointed, elected or transferred by the State of Georgia, any political subdivision or agency thereof to perform duties or functions on behalf of any political subdivision of the state, having its own pension system or systems, similar to the duties or functions which such officer or employee performed on behalf of said city; such officer or employee so elected, appointed or transferred, shall be entitled to receive a refund of all amounts deducted from his salary for pension purposes and/or credit to his account on the books of said city's pension fund, together with a like amount in matching funds from the funds held by the board of trustees of such pension funds. Provided, however, such refund shall be paid directly to the pension fund of the board or authority covering the office or position to which such employee or officer is elected, appointed or transferred and shall not be paid as a cash refund to the officer or employee.
(1959 Ga. Laws, page 3083, § 1)
Sec. 6-42. - Transfer of funds where hospitals taken over.
In the event the hospitals of a municipality coming under the provisions of this article are taken over by a hospital authority or other political subdivision, the officers and employees of such hospitals who are members of this pension fund, at the time the hospitals were taken over by said authority or subdivision and who become officers and employees of the hospital authority or political subdivisions on taking over such hospitals and such authority or political subdivision sets up a pension or retirement system, the board of trustees of said pension fund shall transfer to the authorities in charge of the pension or retirement fund of the hospital authority or political subdivision taking over said hospitals the amount of contributions made to the pension fund by the officer or employee of such hospitals while a member of said municipal pension fund, as well as the amount contributed by the municipality to match the contributions made by such members. When said board of trustees pays said funds into the pension or retirement fund of the hospital authority or political subdivision, such board of trustees shall stand fully discharged from any further obligations to such former member or members.
(1945 Ga. Laws, page 999, § 11)
Sec. 6-43. - Deductions from salaries, wages.
The sum of three per centum (3%) shall be deducted from the salaries or wages of all officers and employees of such cities as and when paid. This sum shall be retained by the city treasurer, and is hereby set apart as a pension fund free from the control of such cities for any other purpose or expenditure.
(1927 Ga. Laws, page 265, § 5; 1935 Ga. Laws, page 445, § 2)
Editor's note— The provisions compiled in the above section were repealed by 1978 Ga. Laws, page 4546 but have been retained at the request of the city due to their applicability to certain individuals.
Sec. 6-44. - Additional deduction when wife is named beneficiary.
After May 1, 1935, all persons coming within the provisions of this Act who have previously designated as beneficiary their wife, or who in the future may designate as their beneficiary their wife, shall pay into said fund the sum of one per centum (1%) more of their monthly salary than is specified in section two (2) of this amended Act.
(1935 Ga. Laws, page 445, § 6)
Editor's note— The provisions compiled in the above section were repealed by 1978 Ga. Laws, page 4546 but have been retained at the request of the city due to their applicability to certain individuals.
Sec. 6-45. - Same; effect of objection to deductions from salaries and wages.
In case any employee or officer objects to the deduction of said salary or wages of said two [three] per cent, or otherwise objects to the payment of said two [three] per centum, such officer or employee shall not be entitled to the pension provided by this Act.
(1927 Ga. Laws, page 265, § 7)
Editor's note— The provisions compiled in the above section were repealed by 1978 Ga. Laws, page 4546 but have been retained at the request of the city due to their applicability to certain individuals.
Sec. 6-46. - Participation in fund compulsory; scope of provisions.
Any and all officers and employees, except the mayor and members of the general council, members of board of education and department heads elected by the people, who shall become officers or employees of the City of Atlanta after April 1, 1945, shall be compelled to come under the provisions of this Act at the end of the first three (3) months of their service, other than those eligible for participation in existing firemen and police pension laws, and those employees whose base compensation is $75 or less per month, and shall pay into said fund the amount prescribed by this article. Provided, however, that this article shall not apply to casual employees whose work or employment is irregular and who receive a daily or hourly wage for such occasional work.
(1935 Ga. Laws, page 445, § 7; 1945 Ga. Laws, page 999, § 2)
Sec. 6-47. - Participation in fund upon attaining salary level.
Whenever any employee who had been receiving salary of less than $100.00 per month shall have a salary increase to $100.00 per month or more, such employee, as of the first day on which he receives pay at said rate of $100 per month or more [shall] be required to join such pension fund and to contribute thereto thereafter pursuant to law, but such employee is given the right to obtain credit for period of service prior to such increase in salary for purposes of determining his eligibility for pension under the provisions of said Act by paying into said pension fund such proportions of his wages, prior to such date of joining such fund, the same to be computed as set forth in section 6-43 of this article as amended by this Act and as set forth in section 6-52 of this article; provided, however, that such employee shall have the right to pay said total amount in 24 equal installments to be paid over a period of 24 months, beginning as of the date of said employee's entrance into said pension fund.
(1941 Ga. Laws, page 468, § 5)
Editor's note— The provisions compiled in the above section were repealed by 1978 Ga. Laws, page 4546 but have been retained at the request of the city due to their applicability to certain individuals.
Sec. 6-48. - Employees ineligible for participation.
All officers and employees, eligible for participation in this Act, who shall be elected or appointed after the effective date of this amendment, except officers elected by the people, shall be compelled to come under the provisions of this Act as amended at the end of their first three (3) months' service, and shall contribute to the pension fund as provided by this Act as amended. The following classes of employees shall not be eligible for participation:
(1)
Members of fire departments;
(2)
Members of the police departments;
(3)
Employees whose base compensation is less than $75 per month; and
(4)
Casual employees whose work or employment is irregular and who receive a daily or hourly wage for such occasional work.
(1955 Ga. Laws, Jan.-Feb. Sess., page 2822)
Editor's note— Although this section is not specifically amendatory of the legislation compiled in section 6-46, to the extent the provisions of that section are in conflict they have been superseded.
Sec. 6-49. - Eligibility of officers and employees of traffic court.
All officers and employees of any traffic court which may be organized pursuant to law in any such city, shall be eligible for pension, disability and other benefits under this Act, as amended, to the same extent and under the same conditions as officers and employees of any such city.
(1955 Ga. Laws, Jan.-Feb. Sess., page 2822, § 2)
Sec. 6-50. - Eligibility of officers and employees of joint city-county board of tax assessors; conditions.
(a)
Any officer or employee of any joint city-county board of tax assessors which has been created or which may be created pursuant to any law applicable to such city and the county in which such city may be located in whole or in part, shall be eligible for pension benefits, for himself and his beneficiaries, under this Act as amended, to the same extent and under the same conditions as officers and employees of any such city.
(b)
Any such officer or employee of any such board of tax assessors now employed by any such board of tax assessors, may elect to come under the provisions of this amendment by making written application to the board of trustees within six (6) months after the approval of this Act. The applicant must agree in writing to accept the benefits and obligations under this Act as now or hereafter amended and to waive such benefits and obligations under any other pension Act applicable to the applicant.
(c)
Any such officer or employee of any such board of tax assessors electing to come under this Act as now amended, who, at the time of the approval of this Act, is a participating member of any pension system of the county in which such city is located shall be given full credit for the time credited to such person by trustees of the county pension system for retirement rights. Thereupon, the board of trustees of the county system shall remit to the board of trustees of this pension system the full amount of contribution of such officer or employee, together with the matching fund, and all other reserves accumulated or received from any source as a contribution toward pension benefits of such officer or employee of such board of tax assessors.
(1962 Ga. Laws, page 3011, §§ 1—3)
Sec. 6-51. - Member leaving, reentering service; payment required.
Any officer or employee who was at any time a member of this pension fund and severed his connection with the city and withdrew the amount of money he paid into said fund, and who has reentered or may hereafter reenter the service of the city and desires to receive credit for the time of service represented by the payment previously made to such fund and which was withdrawn, may at any time receive credit for such previous service by paying back into the pension fund the full amount so withdrawn on leaving the employment of the city, together with four percent (4%) per annum simple interest thereon from the date of such withdrawal to the date of repayment. Such persons shall be given the privilege of repaying such amount in not more than 50 equal monthly payments.
(1959 Ga. Laws, page 3114, § 1)
Editor's note— The provisions compiled in the above section were repealed by 1978 Ga. Laws, page 4546 but have been retained at the request of the city due to their applicability to certain individuals.
Sec. 6-52. - Same; notice required for employee reentering service.
In the event that any employee coming within the provisions of this Act shall sever his connection with the city and withdraw the amount of money he has paid into the pension fund, and subsequently is reemployed by the city and desires to reenter said pension fund and receive credit for former years of service, he may do so and receive credit for such prior years of service by paying back into the pension fund the full amount so withdrawn on leaving the employment of the city, with four percentum (4%) interest from the date of such withdrawal. In order to entitle any employee to the benefit of this section he shall, within 60 days of his reemployment signify his desire in writing upon such forms as may be furnished by the board of trustees his desire to do so. The amount withdrawn by such employee may be divided into 12 or less equal installments and paid monthly after the reemployment. Such payments may be deducted from the salary paid to such person so reemployed.
(1941 Ga. Laws, page 468, § 3; 1955 Ga. Laws, Jan.-Feb. Sess., page 2822, § 3)
Editor's note— The provisions compiled in the above section were repealed by 1978 Ga. Laws, page 4546 but have been retained at the request of the city due to their applicability to certain individuals.
Sec. 6-53. - Right to retirement; generally.
Every regular officer and employee of such city, in active service at the time of the passage of this Act, now on the payroll, and future officers and employees, may as a matter of right retire from active service, provided he shall have served 25 years in active service of such city at the time of his retirement.
(1927 Ga. Laws, page 265, § 2)
Editor's note— The provisions compiled in the above section were repealed by 1978 Ga. Laws, page 4546 but have been retained at the request of the city due to their applicability to certain individuals.
Sec. 6-54. - Same; compulsory retirement at age 70.
All officers and employees who shall have reached their 70th birthday shall be compelled to retire at the end of the calendar year immediately following their 70th birthday, and any officer or employee who shall have reached his 65th birthday shall have the right to retire and shall be entitled to a pro rata pension when so retiring, whether he has served 25 years or not, which benefits shall be continued to his widow if she is otherwise entitled to a pension. For example, if such officer or employee has served 10 years, he shall be entitled to 10/25 ths of the pension that he would have been entitled to had he served 25 years. All officers and employees shall be given credit for fractional parts of years of service. Provided, however, that any officer who is elected for a term prior to his 70th birthday or any officer who was elected prior to the enactment of this Act, shall have the privilege of completing his term of office before he shall be compelled to retire. Provided, further, that the board of education shall be authorized to require employees of the school department to retire upon reaching 65 years of age and that the mayor and board of aldermen shall have like powers with respect to other employees covered by this Act. No officer elected by the people shall be compelled to retire.
(1947 Ga. Laws, page 1638, § 6; 1955 Ga. Laws, Jan.-Feb. Sess., page 2057, § 2; 1958 Ga. Laws, page 2451, § 1; 1961 Ga. Laws, page 2028, § 1; 1963 Ga. Laws, page 2889, § 1; 1966 Ga. Laws, page 3005, § 1; 1975 Ga. Laws, page 3176, § 1)
Editor's note— The provisions compiled in the above section were repealed by 1978 Ga. Laws, page 4546 but have been retained at the request of the city due to their applicability to certain individuals.
Sec. 6-55. - Same; compulsory retirement provisions inapplicable to city attorney.
The compulsory retirement provisions of this Act shall not apply to the position of assistant city attorney.
(1961 Ga. Laws, page 2028, § 1)
Sec. 6-56. - Same; rights of officers who are not reelected or reappointed or whose offices are abolished.
(a)
This section shall be known and may be cited as The Equal Retirement Benefits Act of 1975 [sic].
(b)
Any officer elected or appointed for a definite term who is a member of said pension fund, who shall fail to be reelected or reappointed, or whose office shall be abolished, shall be entitled to a pension on the following basis: No such person shall be entitled to a pension until such person has either been elected or appointed for at least four (4) terms or has been in the employment of the city for a period of 15 years and who was a member of the pension fund at the time of his retirement. Such person shall thereafter be entitled to receive as a pension such percentage of the full pension provided for as his years of service bear to 25 years. Such pension shall be computed and paid in the manner provided in 1941 Ga. Laws, pages 468, 470, § 3, and 1945 Ga. Laws, pages 1003, 1004, § 6, now codified respectively as section 8 and section 9 of Appendix A of Part I of the Code of the City of Atlanta of 1953. Such officer shall otherwise be entitled to all the rights and benefits provided in said Act for officers and employees who may have provided for a beneficiary and/or who have or may become totally and permanently disabled.
(c)
Provided, however, if such person or officer either voluntarily or by compulsion has come under the provisions of section 6-183, then the pension to which such person or officer may be entitled to, as hereinabove provided, shall be computed and paid in the manner provided in 1962 Ga. Laws, page 3140, § 1. Such officer shall otherwise be entitled to all the rights and benefits provided in said Act for officers and employees who have or may become totally and permanently disabled.
(d)
This Act amending the Act approved April 7, 1972 (1972 Ga. Laws, pages 4125, 4126), and particularly sections 2 and 3 of this Act, shall not apply to nor affect any officer or person who, prior to the date of approval of this Act, had been elected or appointed for a definite term; and such officer or person shall continue to be entitled to the privileges and benefits of the Act approved April 7, 1972 (1972 Ga. Laws, pages 4125, 4126), the same as if said Act had not been repealed by this Act.
(1965 Ga. Laws, page 3256, § 3; 1972 Ga. Laws, page 4125, §§ 1, 2; 1976 Ga. Laws, page 3257, §§ 1, 3, 4)
Editor's note— The provisions compiled in the above section pertaining to pensions for officers who fail to be elected are derived from 1976 Ga. Laws, page 3257, §§ 1, 3, 4. All other provisions were repealed by 1978 Ga. Laws, page 4508 but have been retained at the request of the city due to their applicability to certain individuals. The legislation referred to in subsection (b) above was repealed by 1974 Ga. Laws, page 3540, §§ 2 and 3, referred to in subsection (d) above, cited earlier amendments to the provisions codified in this article.
Sec. 6-57. - Rights of discharged persons.
Whenever any member by reason of his service is eligible for pension, he may make application therefor at any time after the termination of his service and employment by the city. The manner of termination of service shall not impair his right to a pension.
(1941 Ga. Laws, page 468, § 3; 1953 Ga. Laws, Nov.-Dec. Sess., page 2776, § 3; 1959 Ga. Laws, page 3087, § 1)
Sec. 6-57.1. - Rights of those terminated through reduction in force between December 31, 2001 and December 31, 2003.
(a)
Any officer or employee subject to the terms of the 1962 City of Atlanta Pension Amendment (Ga. L. 1962, p. 3140 et seq.) who has not yet attained the age of 55 years, who has at least 25 years of service with the City of Atlanta, and who has been involuntarily separated due to or in association with a Reduction-in-Force (RIF), or in conjunction with the city's reorganization and downsizing of the city's workforce and budgetary needs, but not due to disciplinary action, between December 31, 2001 and December 31, 2003, may elect to take a monthly retirement benefit with an age adjustment equal to one-half (½) of the age adjustment provided for in said 1962 Pension Amendment for officers and employees who have attained the age of 55 years of age.
(b)
Any former officer or employee eligible to retire pursuant to this ordinance who has been involuntarily separated due to or in association with a RIF, but not due to disciplinary action, between December 31, 2001 and December 31, 2003 in conjunction with the city's reorganization and downsizing of the city's workforce and budgetary needs, and has already applied for and/or has been granted a service pension, may make written application to the Pension Office within the two-year reemployment rights period to receive the benefit authorized in subsection (a) of this ordinance.
(c)
Any former officer or employee eligible to retire pursuant to this ordinance who has been involuntarily separated due to or in association with a RIF, but not due to disciplinary action, between December 31, 2001 and December 31, 2003 in conjunction with the city's reorganization and downsizing of the city's workforce and budgetary needs, and has applied for and received a refund of his/her pension contribution, may, within the two year reemployment rights period, repay said contribution plus interest at a rate of seven (7) percent per annum from the date of withdrawal of his/her contribution, to the date that he/she makes written application to the Pension Office for the purpose of receiving the benefit authorized in subsection (a) of this ordinance.
(d)
This ordinance shall not apply to officers or employees who are rehired by the City of Atlanta or whose services are retained by the city pursuant to a contract; (ii) Nor shall this ordinance apply to officers or employees who reject or have rejected an offer of reemployment made by the city, to a position comparable to that from which the officer or employee was RIFFED or involuntary separated in conjunction with the city's reorganization and downsizing of the city's workforce, budgetary needs or other purposes. For officers or employees who were RIFFED or so involuntarily separated prior to the enactment of this ordinance, said offer of reemployment must be made within six (6) months of the enactment hereof. For officers and employees who are RIFFED or so involuntarily separated subsequent to enactment of this ordinance said offer of reemployment must be made within (6) months of the date of separation of any such officer or employee: For purposes of this subsection, a "comparable position" shall be defined as one for which the compensation is equal to or no less than 90% of the compensation earned by such officer or employee at the time of separation.
(Ord. No. 2003-60, § 1, 4-28-03)
Sec. 6-58. - Rights of officers, employees of annexed territory; service credit, contributions.
Any person who was an officer or employee of a municipality or a teacher or employee of a county or independent school system which has been or may in the future be annexed or merged with a municipality coming under the provisions of this article who becomes an officer, employee or teacher of the annexing municipality shall be entitled to credit for the years of actual service they have rendered such annexed municipality or school system in the annexed unincorporated territory; provided, that employees now on the payroll who are entitled to credit for service rendered in annexed territory must advise the board of trustees in writing on or before September 1, 1945, that they desire credit for such service. Such persons shall pay into the pension fund the percentage of their monthly salary received from the annexed municipality or school system for the period subsequent to November 1, 1927 that they would have paid for such period if they had been employees of the annexing municipalities. The board of trustees may permit this arrearage to be paid in equal monthly installments not exceeding 24 months. Provided, the provisions of this section shall apply to the former officers, teachers, and employees of those municipalities which have heretofore been annexed to the municipality coming under the provisions of this article and all previous Acts of boards of trustees giving credit for such prior service are hereby ratified and confirmed.
(1945 Ga. Laws, page 999, § 3)
Editor's note— The provisions compiled in the above section were repealed by 1978 Ga. Laws, page 4546 but have been retained at the request of the city due to their applicability to certain individuals.
Sec. 6-59. - Transferred officers, employees; transfer from one department to another; service credit; contributions.
Whenever any officer or employee of such city is transferred from one department to another, he shall be entitled to become a member of the pension fund of the department to which he has been transferred and to receive credit for the years of service in the department from which he has been transferred by paying into the pension fund of the department to which he is transferred the amount of premiums he would have paid into said fund if he had been a member of said department for the number of years he claims credit for service in the other department. Such transferred employee shall have the right to have transferred from the pension fund the amount he had paid into such fund. The rights given in this Act shall be effective as to the officers and employees who have transferred prior to this Act, as well as future transferees. This Act shall apply to all the pension funds of such city, namely, the policemen's pension fund, the firemen's pension fund and the general employees' pension fund.
(1947 Ga. Laws, page 1635, § 1)
Editor's note— The provisions compiled in the above section were repealed by 1978 Ga. Laws, page 4546 but have been retained at the request of the city due to their applicability to certain individuals.
Sec. 6-60. - Transferred officers, employees; transfer from city to county or from county to city.
(a)
As used in this Act [section], the following terms shall have the following meanings unless a contrary meaning is clearly indicated by the context:
(1)
County —shall mean any county of this state having a population in excess of 600,000 according to the 1970 United States Census or any future census.
(2)
City —shall mean the largest city located in whole or in part in such county.
(3)
Pension fund —shall mean a fund for the purpose of providing retirement benefits for an employee, maintained by either a city or a county, with contributions being made by both the employee and the employer.
(b)
Whenever any city employee shall become a county employee or whenever any county employee shall become a city employee, such employee may transfer from the pension fund of his former employer to the pension fund of his new employer credit for all years of service which may have accrued to him while in the service of his former employer upon compliance with the provisions of this Act.
(c)
Any employee wishing to obtain the benefits of this Act shall file a written statement to such effect with the secretaries of both the city and county pension fund. Thereupon it shall be the duty of the secretary of the pension fund of the former employer to certify to the secretary of the pension fund of the new employer the total number of years of service accrued to the credit of such employee, and the amount due such pension fund by said employee for such credit, if any. Said secretary shall also transfer all funds contributed by said employee, together with all employer matching fund contributions, to the secretary of the pension board of the new employer. In the event that such employee shall owe any sum for prior service credits, said sum shall be payable to the pension fund of the new employer. Upon such certification and transfer of funds, such employee shall become entitled to credit for all years of service which may have accrued to him with his former employer to the same extent as if such service had been rendered to his new employer, without the payment of additional contributions (other than amounts previously due for prior service credits). The employer matching contributions transferred in accordance with the terms of this Act shall become the property of the pension fund of the new employer.
(d)
In the event that any employee shall have previously withdrawn the amounts contributed by him to the pension fund of his former employer, he shall not be entitled to any benefits under this Act.
(1972 Ga. Laws, page 3277)
Sec. 6-61. - Transfer from county to city; terms, conditions.
Whenever an officer or employee of any county in which such a city is located is transferred to such city from such county, he shall have all the rights, privileges and benefits of any officer or employee of such city set forth in this Act, as amended, upon the following terms and conditions:
(1)
There shall be paid into the pension fund of any such city an amount equal to the amount paid into the county pension fund by such county officer or employee and the matching fund required to be paid into such county pension fund by the county authorities;
(2)
Such transferred officer or employee shall receive the same credit for service that he would have received under the pension plan applicable to such employee at the time of transfer from the county to the city. Every such officer and employee may, as a matter of right, retire from active service provided his service to the city, when added to his accumulated county credit, would have authorized him to retire under the county pension plan;
(3)
Such transferred officer or employee, however, shall not have the privilege of retiring as a matter of right under the terms of this Act, as amended, until he shall have reached the age of 55 years; and
(4)
Such transferred officer or employee shall have all other rights, privileges and benefits provided in this Act, as amended, and shall be required to contribute to the pension fund the same amounts required of other members of such cities.
(1951 Ga. Laws, page 3014, § 1; 1952 Ga. Laws, page 2765, § 1)
Editor's note— The provisions compiled in the above section were repealed by 1978 Ga. Laws, page 4546 but have been retained at the request of the city due to their applicability to certain individuals.
Sec. 6-62. - Same; officers, employees reentering employment of political subdivision where employed prior to transfer to city.
Any officer or employee who has heretofore left the employment of any city within the classification provided by this Act for the purpose of reentering the employment of any other political subdivision of Georgia where he was employed prior to transferring to the city, which has a pension fund and which requires employees to contribute thereto, the board of trustees of the pension fund of any such city shall pay into the pension fund of such other political subdivision of Georgia where said employee shall become reemployed, the full amount of contribution of such employee while an employee of such city, together with the matching funds paid by such city into the pension fund, and all other reserves accumulated or received from any source as a contribution toward said pension fund by reason of the service of such officer or employee, provided such officer or employee shall reenter the employment of the political subdivision of Georgia where he was formerly employed, within a period of not more than three (3) years from the date he left the service of such political subdivision of Georgia.
(1956 Ga. Laws, page 2589, § 1)
Editor's note— The provisions compiled in the above section were repealed by 1978 Ga. Laws, page 4546 but have been retained at the request of the city due to their applicability to certain individuals.
Sec. 6-63. - Same; applicability to board of education.
The term "officer or employee" of any county, as used in the amendment to said Act approved February 21, 1951 (1951 Ga. Laws, page 3014) [section 6-61] shall include officers or employees of the board of education of such county.
(1953 Ga. Laws, Jan.-Feb. Sess., page 2824, § 1)
Editor's note— The provisions compiled in the above section were repealed by 1978 Ga. Laws, page 4546 but have been retained at the request of the city due to their applicability to certain individuals.
Sec. 6-64. - Same; rights of officers, employees of board of education.
Such transferred officers or employees of the board of education of any such county shall have the further rights as hereinafter set out in this section:
(1)
Where the transferred officer or employee has designated his wife and minor children as his beneficiaries under any applicable pension fund of the board of education of such county and has paid the required amounts into the pension fund, his minor child or children in existence at the time of his transfer to the city shall, if at the time of his death his wife is dead, be entitled to 60 percent of his said pension which shall be paid to the guardian of the minor child or children if there be such, until the youngest child reaches the age of 18 years. The interest of any minor child in such pension shall cease when he reaches the age of 18 years.
(2)
Any such transferred officer or employee may, as a matter of right, retire from active service provided he shall have served:
a.
At least 25 years in active service and has reached the age of 55 years; or
b.
Has had 20 years' active service and has reached the age of 60 years.
(1953 Ga. Laws, Jan.-Feb. Sess., page 2824, § 3)
Editor's note— The provisions compiled in the above section were repealed by 1978 Ga. Laws, page 4546 but have been retained at the request of the city due to their applicability to certain individuals.
Sec. 6-65. - Same; credit for service of officers and employees transferred to city from county or county board of education.
Any officer or employee of the city, who was transferred to the city from the county or the board of education for the county, under the plan of improvement or as a result of the extension of the corporate limits of such city, may receive credit for any time of service which would have been creditable to his account under the pension law applicable to his service prior to his transfer to the city by giving written notice on or before June 30, 1956, to the secretary of the pension board of such city by which he is employed and by paying into the pension fund thereof a sum representing the contribution which he should have made had he been a member of its pension plan during the years in question, plus interest thereon at three percent (3%) per annum, which may be paid in 50 equal installments, bearing interest at the rate of three percent per annum.
(1956 Ga. Laws, page 2990, § 1)
Editor's note— The provisions compiled in the above section were repealed by 1978 Ga. Laws, page 4546 but have been retained at the request of the city due to their applicability to certain individuals.
Sec. 6-66. - Same; transfer from city to county employment.
The provisions of this section shall apply to any officer or employee who was transferred from the county or the board of education of the county, to the city, and who, prior to December 31, 1952, was transferred back to the county or to the board of education of the county. As to any such officer or employee, it shall be the duty of the treasurer or other person having possession of the funds belonging to the board of trustees to pay over to the board of trustees of the pension fund of the county or the board of education of the county the following funds:
(1)
Any fund which may have been paid into the treasury of this pension fund by reason of the transfer of such officer or employee to the city;
(2)
The amount which said employee contributed to the pension fund while employed by the city;
(3)
Any matching funds, if any, which the city may have paid into the fund to match the amount deducted from such employee's salary.
(1953 Ga. Laws, Jan.-Feb. Sess., page 2824, § 4)
Editor's note— The provisions compiled in the above section were repealed by 1978 Ga. Laws, page 4546 but have been retained at the request of the city due to their applicability to certain individuals.
Sec. 6-67. - Same; transfer of golf professional from city to county employment.
(a)
Whenever any person employed by such city as a golf professional shall be transferred to the county in which such city is located in whole or in part and shall be employed by such county as a golf professional, it shall be the duty of the trustees of said pension fund to transfer to the trustees of the pension fund created for the benefit of officers, deputies and employees of such county, the funds and matching funds standing to the credit of such employee of such city.
(b)
It shall be the duty of the trustees to pay over to the trustees of such county the said funds and matching funds upon being requested to do so by the trustees of the county pension fund.
(1965 Ga. Laws, page 2932, §§ 1, 2)
Editor's note— The provisions compiled in the above section were repealed by 1978 Ga. Laws, page 4546 but have been retained at the request of the city due to their applicability to certain individuals.
Sec. 6-68. - Same; credit for service of employee not previously authorized.
(a)
Generally. County employees, county school district teachers and employees, and employees of the largest city located in whole or in part in counties of 300,000 or more by the last or any future United States decennial census and who are members of the pension plans of the respective subdivisions of government as of the date of approval of this amendment to said Act [April 12, 1968] and who may thereafter, by transfer of governmental function between such county or such city or through annexation and merger, be transferred to such city from such county or to such county from such city, shall be entitled to be credited on their pension time requirement by their respective pension boards, with all years of service not previously authorized and allowed, with which they were credited by any of said subdivisions of government at the time of separation from its service; provided, however, that school teachers in the employ of the largest city located in whole or in part in such counties shall be credited for years of teaching in other counties or cities of the state only if they become members of the city pension plan by reason of the annexation of territory to said largest city.
(b)
Certifications of secretaries of pension boards in connection with years of employment, contributions to funds. It shall be the duty of the secretaries of the several pension boards of the subdivisions of government referred to in section 1 [subsection (a)] of this Act [section] to certify to the secretary of any other of said pension plan or board on written request of such secretary, the years, and fractions thereof, of employment with which any member was credited at the time of his separation from employment with the corresponding subdivision of government, showing thereon any matching fund or contribution which stood to his credit in the pension fund of said subdivision of government; provided, however, that no credit for years of teaching in other counties or cities shall be certified to in case of school teachers employed by the largest city located in whole or in part in such counties unless they became employed by said city as a result of the annexation of territory to said largest city.
(c)
Transfer of funds upon separation from one agency and employment by another. It is the legislative determination that any contributions or matching funds found to the credit of an employee on the books of the pension plan at the time of his separation from employment with the corresponding subdivision of government belongs to and is the property of the pension fund of the subdivision of government to which such employee is transferred and by which such employee is subsequently employed.
(d)
Method of receiving credit under new fund for prior years of service where portion of contribution was withdrawn from old fund. Any member of any pension plan referred to in section 1 [subsection (a)] of this Act [section] who has withdrawn any portion of his contribution from any pension fund with any of said subdivisions of government from which he seeks credit for prior years of service or fraction thereof, shall not be allowed such credit unless he gives written notice, within 90 days from the date of the employee's transfer, to the secretary of the pension board of the government by which he is employed, that he desires to receive credit for such prior years of service and pays into the pension fund of the subdivision of government by which he is employed, the sum withdrawn and unpaid, plus interest at the rate of four percent (4%) per annum; said payment may be in 50 equal monthly installments bearing interest at the rate of three percent (3%) per annum.
(e)
Credit under new fund where employee was not member of pension plan of former employer. Any member of the pension plan of any subdivision of government referred to in section 1 [subsection (a)] of this Act [section] shall be given credit for years of employment with any of said subdivisions of government or with the State of Georgia not previously granted or allowed by giving written notice within 90 days from the date of the transfer of the employee to the secretary of the pension board of the subdivision of government by which he is employed and by paying into the pension fund thereof a sum representing the contribution which he should have made had he been a member of its pension plan during the years in question or the sum which he should have paid to the pension fund of the subdivision of government by which he was employed during those years, whichever of said sums is the larger, plus interest at the rate of four percent (4%) per annum; said payment may be made in 50 equal monthly installments, bearing interest at the rate of four percent (4%) per annum; provided, however, that no credit for years of employment with the State of Georgia shall be allowed in the pension plan of the largest city located in whole or in part in such counties.
(f)
Method whereby nonparticipating employees may become members. Any employee of any of said subdivisions of government who is not a member of the pension fund or some part thereof, by reason of having chosen not to participate within the time provided by law, may become a member of said pension plan or part thereof, as the case may be, and obtain the benefits under this Act [section] by notifying the secretary of the pension plan of said subdivision of government in writing within 90 days from the date of the transfer of such employee, that he wishes to become a member of said plan or part thereof, as the case may be, and subject to the obligations and benefits and by paying into said pension plan a sum equal to the contribution he would have paid had he chosen to participate within the time originally provided, plus interest at four percent (4%) per annum. Said payment may be made in 50 equal monthly installments, bearing interest at the rate of four percent (4%) per annum.
(g)
Purpose. It is hereby declared to be the legislative determination that in counties and subdivisions of government described in section 2 [subsection (b)] of this Act [section], consolidations in governmental functions between such subdivisions of government and the incident transfer or change of employment, make it in the interest of the employees, subdivisions of government, the pension funds thereof and of general public that these employees be not deprived of, but be given credit on their pensions for all years of service with the several subdivisions of government. It is the legislative purpose of this Act [section] to give authority for and to require that the credits for prior and present employment be given and allowed to the extent and in the manner provided in this Act [section], by the respective pension boards or plans named in section 1 [subsection (a)] of this Act [section].
(1953 Ga. Laws, Nov.-Dec. Sess., page 3000, §§ 1—7; 1968 Ga. Laws, page 3702, §§ 1—5)
Sec. 6-69. - Service requirements—Persons employed on or after April 1, 1945; applicability.
Effective April 1, 1945, any person employed on or after that date must attain the age of 55 years and have served 25 years before being eligible to retire on a pension; provided, however, that the provisions of this section as to age limit shall not apply to any person claiming a pension by reason of permanent disability, nor to any officer or employee on the payroll of the city as of March 31, 1945.
(1945 Ga. Laws, page 999, § 3)
Sec. 6-70. - Service credits; employees working nine months per year.
Whereas, in certain departments of the City of Atlanta certain regular employees are required to work only nine (9) months out of each calendar year, it is hereby enacted that such employees who, in the ordinary conduct of the business of their particular department are required to work only nine (9) months out of each year, shall be credited with a full year in determining their period of service for eligibility to a pension. Provided, however, such employees shall be entitled to receive such credit only at the expiration of the year for which said credit is being given, and not at the expiration of the nine (9) months worked of each year.
(1941 Ga. Laws, page 468, § 3; 1968 Ga. Laws, page 3707, §§ 1, 2)
Sec. 6-71. - Same; service in the armed forces; terms, conditions.
Service in the armed forces of the United States, under the Department of Defense, or service in the Coast Guard of the United States, shall, for the purpose of service pension rights established by this Act, be considered service to any such city, upon the following terms and conditions:
(1)
Such officer or employee must have been inducted into such armed forces, either voluntarily or involuntarily, under any Act applicable thereto, when there is at the time of such induction an actual conflict or such induction is mandatory under the applicable law;
(2)
Such officer or employee must have been on the payrolls of any such city and in good standing at the time of such induction;
(3)
Such officer or employee shall not voluntarily extend his term of service beyond the termination of the conflict or beyond the time when he could retire from such service;
(4)
Such officer or employee shall make application for reemployment to his former position within the time required by the charter of any such city for the reemployment of such officers or employees;
(5)
Dishonorable discharge from such armed forces shall terminate all rights under this amendment;
(6)
Such officer or employee, upon his return to the service of such city from service in the armed forces, shall make the same contributions to the said pension fund for the time served in the armed forces as he would have made if he had been in active service of the city, but shall be permitted to make such contributions in equal monthly installments within a period of time equal to the time served in such armed forces; and
(7)
In the event such officer or employee dies while performing "qualified military service" as defined in U.S. Internal Revenue Code Section 414(u), on or after January 1, 2007, such officer or employee shall be considered to have been rehired on the day prior to the date of death, and the survivors of such officer or employee shall be entitled to any additional benefits required to be paid pursuant to U.S. Internal Revenue Code Section 401(a)(37).
(1953 Ga. Laws, Jan.-Feb. Sess., page 2267, § 1; Ord. No. 2015-06(14-O-1633), § 1, 2-26-15 )
Sec. 6-72. - Same; rights of officers, employees inducted into armed forces.
(a)
All officers and employees of cities and of departments in cities in this state, having a population of not less than 150,000 inhabitants who have been or shall be, inducted into the armed forces of the United States, either voluntarily, or involuntarily, under the Selective Service and Training Act or otherwise, and being such persons as come within the provisions of the Soldiers and Sailors Relief Act of Congress, shall be entitled to receive under all pension acts and civil service acts, credit for their time of service in the armed forces of the United States, which time of service shall, for the purposes of such pension and civil service acts, be considered as service to such cities, on the following terms and conditions:
(1)
Such officer or employee must have been or must be, on the payrolls of such city or a department thereof, in good standing at the time of such induction.
(2)
He shall not voluntarily extend his term of service beyond the termination of the present conflict.
(3)
He shall return to service in such city promptly upon his discharge from the armed forces.
(4)
Any such person receiving a dishonorable discharge from such armed forces shall not be entitled to the benefits of this Act.
(5)
The amount of his payments for such pension shall not become in arrears more than 90 days. If, during his service to the federal government such payments become in arrears as hereinbefore set forth, such person shall have the privilege of paying up all back payments when or before he returns to his employment with the city and thereupon shall be reinstated to full benefits under said pension system.
(b)
All such officers and employees who were inducted in the armed forces of the United States prior to March 19, 1943 (the date of said amendment), who become members of such pension fund under section 34 of said Act as amended by this Act or any prior Act, shall have credit for the time served in the armed forces of the United States in the computation of the time required before becoming eligible to retire on a pension.
(1943 Ga. Laws, page 551, § 6; 1947 Ga. Laws, page 1635, § 8)
Editor's note— The provisions compiled in the above section were repealed by 1978 Ga. Laws, page 4546 but have been retained at the request of the city due to their applicability to certain individuals. Section 34, cited in subsection (b) above, was added as a temporary provision by 1945 Ga. Laws, page 999, § 3 and is no longer in force.
Sec. 6-73. - Same—officers and employees serving in Korean conflict, or subsequent thereto.
Any officer or employee who was inducted into service in the armed forces of the United States under the Department of Defense, or service in the Coast Guard of the United States, either during the Korean conflict, or subsequent thereto, or shall have served in the Navy in connection with such service, shall be given full credit for the time served in such service as though he were actually employed during that time by the city and shall not be required to make any contribution to the pension fund for such period of service provided such employee meets the conditions set forth in section 6-71 except he shall not be required to make contributions, as provided in subsection (f) thereof.
(1956 Ga. Laws, page 3376, § 2; 1959 Ga. Laws, page 3088, § 1)
Editor's note— The provisions compiled in the above section were repealed by 1978 Ga. Laws, page 4546 but have been retained at the request of the city due to their applicability to certain individuals.
Sec. 6-74. - Credit for prior service; terms, conditions.
Any person, made eligible for pension benefits by the Act approved on August 20, 1927 (1927 Ga. Laws, page 265 et seq.), now employed, or who may hereafter become employed by the city and who, prior to employment with city, was employed by the State of Georgia or political subdivision thereof to render service within the county in which such city is located in whole or in part, or who was employed as a teacher in a public school system or in a public or private college or university or in an American dependent school, or who was previously employed by the city as a temporary employee or on a part-time basis, may receive credit for such service for pension benefits under this Act, as amended, upon the following terms and conditions:
(1)
No credit may be given for part-time or temporary service unless such part-time or temporary service was rendered while being so employed by the city.
(2)
Such person may be eligible for prior service credit after having been continuously employed by such city for the period of five (5) years and after having filed application with the board of trustees for prior service credit for a period of five (5) years; provided, however, the person claiming prior service credit for prior employment as a regular, temporary, or part-time employee of the city may be eligible for such prior service credit immediately upon filing application for same.
(3)
Prior service credit may be granted to such person eligible and continuing in the service of such city commencing six (6) years from the date of the application for prior service credit for each year, such person shall continue in the service of such city until a maximum of 10 years of prior service credit is given such person. In the event of compulsory retirement, fractional parts of years of prior service credit will be credited such person based upon fractional parts of years served with such city and credited for pension purposes prior to compulsory retirement. As to credit for part-time or temporary service with the city, such prior service credit shall be on the basis of one (1) day for each day worked by such person as a temporary employee or on a part-time basis, and such credit for prior service shall be credited to such person immediately upon application and the payment of the amount of money as provided for and determined hereinafter in paragraph (4) of section 1 of 1969 Ga. Laws, page 2625 [this section], as amended, except that the amount required to be paid into the retirement system of the city shall be based upon gross salary of such person at the time such person makes application for credit for prior service.
(4)
In order to receive such prior service credit, such person must pay into the retirement system of such city, based upon the gross salary of such person at the time of employment or reemployment as a regular employee with the city, as the case may be, an amount of money equal to the amount such person would have been required to pay had he been employed by such city at said gross salary during the prior service; and in addition thereto such person shall pay an amount equal to the amount such city would have been required to pay had such person been employed by such city at said gross salary during the prior service, except, however, if such person is being reemployed by such city as a regular employee and claiming credit for prior service as a regular employee with such city, itself, then, as to the amount which the city would have been required to pay, such person shall only be required to pay an amount equal to the amount such city would have been required to pay had such person been employed by such city at said gross salary during the prior service with an employer other than such city. Provided, however, that such persons, other than teachers, claiming prior service with school systems outside the State of Georgia ("teachers" being defined as meaning any person employed as a classroom teacher or in the supervision of the public schools of any such city, and shall include administrative officials therein), employed on or before April 1, 1969, and otherwise fulfilling the requirements provided for in this Act, shall not be required to pay an amount of money equal to that which would have been paid by the city had such person, other than teachers, been employed by such city during the prior service. The board of trustees shall formulate rules and regulations as they deem necessary for the payment of such funds and may provide for deferred payments with interest at six percent (6%) per annum.
(5)
Persons employed on or before April 1, 1969 who have had at least five (5) years continuous service with such city shall receive prior service credit upon application made in writing to the board of trustees on or before October 1, 1969 and said prior service shall be credited to such person immediately upon application and payment of the amount said person would have been required to pay had such person been employed by such city during the prior service. Said prior service shall be credited to such person on the basis of one (1) year and fractional parts of years prior service credit for one (1) year and fractional parts of the years served with such city and credited for pension purposes. Persons employed after April 1, 1969 shall make application in writing to the board of trustees for such prior service credit which shall be credited in accordance with the provisions of sections 3 and 4 of this Act [amendment].
(6)
Credits for prior service, under the terms of this amendment, shall be treated as credit for service rendered while a member of the retirement system established by this Act, as amended, in the determination of the right to retire and the amount of the retirement benefits.
(1969 Ga. Laws, page 2625, § 1; 1974 Ga. Laws, page 3540, §§ 2—4)
Editor's note— The provisions compiled in the above section were repealed by 1978 Ga. Laws, page 4546 but have been retained at the request of the city due to their applicability to certain individuals.
Sec. 6-75. - Credit for government service.
(a)
Any person qualified for pension benefits under this Act, as amended, who was employed by the United States government, prior to his employment by such city, to perform duties for such city within the county similar to the duties subsequently performed as an employee of such city, may receive credit for such service for pension benefits under this Act, as amended, upon the same terms and conditions as set out in section 6-43 and the subsections of section 6-74.
(b)
Any person qualified for such benefits under this Act, as amended, who was given a "special military leave" to do wartime duty in the American Red Cross, may receive credit for such service for pension benefits under this Act, as amended, upon the same terms and conditions as set out in section 6-43 and the subsections of section 6-74.
(1962 Ga. Laws, page 2893, §§ 1, 2)
Editor's note— The provisions compiled in the above section were repealed by 1978 Ga. Laws, page 4546 but have been retained at the request of the city due to their applicability to certain individuals.
Sec. 6-76. - Closing of schools, effect on employees of board of education.
In the event that the closing of any school or schools in said city shall become compulsory by federal, state or city order, and by reason thereof the board of education of said city fails to pay the salaries due any teacher or employee who comes under the provisions of this Act, then and in that event said board of education shall grant to such teacher or employee an indefinite leave of absence subject to the following terms and conditions:
Such leave of absence shall be terminated when the school or schools reopen and the payment of the salary of the teacher or employee is resumed; provided, however, that upon resumption of active employment, such teacher or employee shall have the same civil service, contractual, and pension rights as were effective at the time said leave of absence was granted, and that no rights or benefits shall be impaired by reason of such interruption of active employment.
(1959 Ga. Laws, page 2100, § 3)
Sec. 6-77. - Credit for prior service as member of General Assembly.
Any person now or hereafter employed by any political subdivision or elected to an office therein, who, by reason of such office or employment, is eligible for pension benefits under any local system and who, prior to such employment, was a member of the General Assembly of the State of Georgia, shall receive credit for time served in the General Assembly in the computation of the service required to become eligible to retire and receive a pension. In computing such credit, such person shall be credited for a full year for each year's membership in the General Assembly of Georgia.
(1962 Ga. Laws, page 595, § 1)
Sec. 6-78. - Prior service credit for cafeteria employees of board of education.
Any person employed by the board of education by any such city in connection with the operation of its cafeteria system may receive credit for prior service rendered by such person in connection with the private operation of such cafeteria for the use and benefit of the public school system of any such city, upon the following terms and conditions:
(1)
Such person shall make application for such credit and provide satisfactory proof of such service to the board of trustees within 60 days after his employment by the board of education.
(2)
Such employee, as a condition precedent, must pay into the retirement system established by this Act as amended an amount equal to the amount he would have paid had he been an employee of the city during such period of time.
(3)
Said payments may be divided into 36 equal installments, which may be deducted from the wages or salaries due such employee or from his pension benefits.
(1962 Ga. Laws, page 3071, § 1)
Sec. 6-79. - Dependents of officers, employees; designation as beneficiary of pension benefits.
Notwithstanding any other provisions of this Act as amended regarding the rights of officers or employees to designate beneficiaries of their pension benefits after their death, every male or female officer or employee having a spouse or unmarried child or children under the age of 18 years shall have the right at any time to designate such spouse or such child or children as beneficiary of such officer's or employee's pension benefits, the amount of such pension benefits to be the same as provided for beneficiaries elsewhere in this Act as amended, and provided that the additional contributions for beneficiaries required in this Act as amended are made; provided, however, that as to every male officer or employee hereafter elected or employed participation for the benefit of such officer's or employee's wife or unmarried child or children under the age of 18 years shall be compulsory. Any and all provisions of this Act, as amended, conferring benefits or placing restrictions on the wife or widow, as beneficiary, of male officers or employees, shall apply equally and in the same manner to the husband or widower as beneficiary of female officers or employees. Whenever, in said Act, as amended, a beneficiary is designated as a wife or widow, such shall also include the husband or widower of a female officer or employee, if such should be the case. A child or children of a female officer or employee, who has provided for payment of a pension to her beneficiary, shall be entitled to the same benefits and subject to the same restrictions as may now or hereafter apply to the child or children of a male officer or employee, as provided in said Act, as amended.
(1964 Ga. Laws, page 2598, § 2; 1972 Ga. Laws, page 3170, § 2)
Editor's note— The provisions compiled in the above section were repealed by 1978 Ga. Laws, page 4546 but have been retained at the request of the city due to their applicability to certain individuals.
Sec. 6-80. - Light-duty status.
(a)
In the event that it has been medically determined that an officer or employee of the city is unable to perform his or her regularly assigned duties by reason of physical or mental incapacity or impairment, and where the officer or employee has applied for disability pension, whether in line of duty or not in line of duty, and upon the confirmation and certification of two (2) or more licensed and practicing physicians of Georgia that such officer or employee is capable of performing less strenuous employment duties with such city, such duties to be designated as "light-duty status"; and where such less strenuous employment duties are available and are offered to such officer or employee, the officer or employee may, in the discretion of the appointing authority of such city, be placed into such "light-duty status" and thereby continue to be carried on the payroll of such city with no change in salary status or pension fund membership, pending a further medical determination by two (2) or more licensed and practicing physicians of Georgia that such officer or employee is no longer capable of functioning in such "light-duty status."
(b)
The board of trustees of the pension fund shall be authorized to make all rules necessary in carrying out the provisions set forth in subsection (a).
(c)
This amendment shall only apply to officers and employees who become members of the pension fund on or after the effective date hereof [April 6, 1981].
(1981 Ga. Laws, page 3569, § 1)
Sec. 6-81. - Effect of disqualification of beneficiary.
(a)
If an officer or employee designates a beneficiary, and thereafter such beneficiary should cease to be qualified to receive a pension in the event of the member's death, then such officer or employee may at his or her option designate some other beneficiary who does qualify for pension benefits under this Act as amended and continue to make contributions for such beneficiary, or cease to make further contributions for beneficiaries, in which event contributions theretofore made for the benefit of a beneficiary shall not be refunded except insofar as refunds may be allowed by other provisions of this act as amended.
(b)
Nothing herein provided shall prevent an officer or employee from designating a primary beneficiary (spouse or children under 18 years of age) and a secondary beneficiary (either spouse or children under 18 years of age and not named as primary beneficiary).
(1964 Ga. Laws, page 2598, § 3; 1972 Ga. Laws, page 3170, § 3)
Editor's note— The provisions compiled in the above section were repealed by 1978 Ga. Laws, page 4546 but have been retained at the request of the city due to their applicability to certain individuals.
Sec. 6-82. - Notice of election to participate for benefit of beneficiary, required.
At such time as an officer or employee elects participation for the benefit of a beneficiary such officer or employee shall give written notice of such election to the board, and shall within a period of two (2) years thereafter, in addition to current requirements, pay into the pension fund such additional percentage of such member's monthly salary as will equalize the contributions of such electing member with the contributions of other officers and employees made during the same prior years and months of eligible service for the same benefits, together with three percent (3%) interest thereon for the months during which other members currently made their contributions for the same benefits.
(1964 Ga. Laws, page 2598, § 4)
Editor's note— The provisions compiled in the above section were repealed by 1978 Ga. Laws, page 4546 but have been retained at the request of the city due to their applicability to certain individuals.
Sec. 6-83. - Widows' rights; generally.
The pensions set up and provided for in said act shall, in case of the death of the pensioner, if he leaves a widow, be continued to such widow during the remainder of her life, except such widow's pension shall cease in case of her remarriage; in case the officer or employee could have secured a pension on account of services but failed to do so and continued in the service and employment of the city, and dies without having a pension set apart for him, his widow may apply for such pension and have same set apart to her during her life of widowhood.
(1929 Ga. Laws, page 312, § 1)
Editor's note— The provisions compiled in the above section were repealed by 1978 Ga. Laws, page 4546 but have been retained at the request of the city due to their applicability to certain individuals.
Sec. 6-84. - Same; amount to be received.
The maximum amount to be paid to any widow, under any of the provisions of this act, shall be the sum of $75 per month, and provided further that all widows now receiving pensions under the provisions of this act in excess of $75 shall after May 1, 1935 only receive an amount of $75 as specified herein.
(1935 Ga. Laws, page 456, § 1)
Editor's note— The provisions compiled in the above section were repealed by 1978 Ga. Laws, page 4546 but have been retained at the request of the city due to their applicability to certain individuals. 1935 Ga. Laws, page 456, § 1, added the above provision to 1929 Ga. Laws, page 312, § 1, codified as section 6-83. The provisions have been codified as separate sections to facilitate reference and use.
Sec. 6-85. - Same; computation, payment of benefits.
The pensions set up and provided for in this act shall, in the case of death of the pensioner if said pensioner has complied with all the requirements of this act as to designating the surviving widow, if such pensioner shall leave a surviving widow, be a sum equal to three-fourths (¾) of the amount the pensioner would have received and shall be paid to such widow during the remainder of her life except that such widow's pension shall be discontinued in case of her remarriage. In case the officer or employee could have secured a pension on account of his services but failed to do so and continued in the service of the city and died without having a pension set apart to said widow subject to the restrictions herein named and provided the pensioner has paid for such privilege, such widow may apply for and receive a pension of three-fourths (¾) of the amount equal to what her deceased husband would have been entitled to and have the sum of said pension, set apart to her during her life of widowhood. Provided, however, in order to entitle the widow to a pension under this act, she must have been the wife of the officer or employee of such cities for a period of one (1) year prior to the retirement of such pensioner or for one (1) year prior to the death of an officer or employee who was entitled to retire but failed to do so, as provided by the terms of this act.
(1935 Ga. Laws, page 445, § 8; 1945 Ga. Laws, page 999, § 7; 1959 Ga. Laws, page 2633, § 1; 1972 Ga. Laws, page 3150, §§ 1, 2)
Editor's note— The provisions compiled in the above section were repealed by 1978 Ga. Laws, page 4546 but have been retained at the request of the city due to their applicability to certain individuals.
Sec. 6-86. - Spendthrift provisions.
None of the funds herein provided for shall be subject to attachment, garnishment, or judgment, nor shall they be assigned, but shall be paid to the pensioner only or on his order.
(1927 Ga. Laws, page 265, § 9)
Sec. 6-87. - Reemployment of pensioners; eligibility, conditions, applicability.
(a)
Any officer or employee of such cities or of the board of education thereof who has applied for and been granted a service pension shall be eligible for reemployment or reappointment to any position in the government of such cities or the board of education thereof, provided such person has not reached the age of 70 years, such reemployment in any position to terminate at the end of the year in which said person reaches age 70. Such reemployment shall be made under the provisions relating to reemployment of former employees as now provided by law or ordinance, except that such reemployed person shall not acquire any civil service rights or any further pension rights during such period of reemployment, shall not be paid a pension during such period and shall not be required to make any contribution to the pension fund during such period of reemployment. The payment of his pension shall be resumed as of the date of termination of such period of reemployment. No such reemployment shall be effective until the person to be reemployed under the provisions of this section shall execute and deliver to the comptroller of any such cities a contract agreeing to the conditions hereof.
(b)
Nothing herein contained shall prevent any retired officer or employee of such cities or of the board of education thereof from holding any position which is filled by an election by the people. No additional pension or civil service rights or privileges shall accrue to such officer or employee during such period.
(c)
The provisions of this act as amended shall not in any way affect or restrict the rights, powers and privileges of an emeritus officer of such cities who now or shall hereafter hold an emeritus office pursuant to the provisions of any law or ordinance establishing same.
(d)
Whenever by contract with a city or one (1) of its agencies, boards or commissions, a retired person, regardless of age and as an independent contractor, agrees to perform a special or particular service, as may be now or hereafter allowed by law or ordinance, then such person, during the term of such contract which shall not exceed one (1) calendar year, shall be entitled to continue to receive his or her regular pension payments, but shall not acquire any civil service rights or any further pension rights, and shall not be required to make any contribution to the pension fund; provided, however, no such contract shall be effective until a fully executed copy of such contract, in which such retired person agrees to the conditions hereof, has been delivered by such person to the secretary of the board of trustees of the pension fund.
(1961 Ga. Laws, page 2542, §§ 1—3; 1966 Ga. Laws, page 3195, § 1; 1970 Ga. Laws, page 2349, § 1)
Sec. 6-88. - Effect on workers' compensation laws.
Except as provided in subsection (F) of 1978 Ga. Laws, page 4546 et seq., this Act shall not affect nor be affected by any workers' compensation law, or other similar laws. Further, no decisions of the State Board of Workers' Compensation shall be entered as evidence with a pension application before the Board of Trustees of said pension fund, nor shall said Board consider any evidence pertaining to the applicant's previously determined entitlement to workers' compensation in any hearing upon a pension application.
(1981 Ga. Laws, page 4376, § 6; 1982 Ga. Laws, page 4385, § 4)
Sec. 6-89. - Effect on other pensions; effect of receipt of other pensions.
This act does not repeal nor in anywise affect any benefit or pension now being paid under some previous ordinance or act, but no pensioner shall receive two (2) pensions. Those already receiving pensions are not eligible to pensions under this act.
(1927 Ga. Laws, page 265, § 10)
Sec. 6-90. - Computations of time; fractional parts of years to be counted.
Whenever this law, or any amendment of this law, requires a computation, for any purpose, of the years of creditable service of any active or retiring officer or employee, fractional parts of years of service shall be counted.
(1927 Ga. Laws, page 265 et seq.; 1977 Ga. Laws, page 318)
Sec. 6-91. - Salary and earnings.
For the purposes of determining any benefit or contribution under this act, 1927 Ga. Laws, page 265, as amended, the "salary," "earnings" or "wages" or "total" "salary," "earnings" or "wages" of an officer or employee of the City of Atlanta for any period shall include the base wages or salary paid to such officer or employee (including lump-sum payments thereof); amounts contributed or deferred by the officer or employee and not includable in gross income under sections 125, 132(f) or 457 of the U.S. Internal Revenue Code (the "Code"); amounts contributed by the officer or employee to a governmental qualified retirement plan and treated as employer contributions under Code section 414(h); and amounts credited to the officer or employee for furlough hours. Such salary, earnings or wages shall not include the following amounts: disability insurance payments to an officer or employee; travel, mileage or automobile-related allowances or reimbursements; bonuses (other than sick-leave bonuses) or performance awards; overtime or premium payments; or any other special, unusual or nonrecurring payment.
For the purposes of determining any benefit or contribution under this act, the "salary," "earnings" or "wages" or "total" "salary," "earnings" or "wages" of an officer or employee of the Atlanta Independent Public School System for any period shall include the regular pay, shift differential pay and salary-prorated or retroactive regular pay paid to such officer or employee; adjustments to earnings paid to an officer or employee under the payroll code "premium pay," the officer's or employee's elective deferrals as defined in Code section 402(g)(3); amounts contributed or deferred by the officer or employee and not includable in gross income under Code sections 125, 132(f) or 457; and amounts contributed by the officer or employee to a governmental qualified retirement plan and treated as employer contributions under Code section 414(h). Notwithstanding the foregoing, such salary, earnings or wages shall not include the following amounts: disability insurance payments to an officer or employee; travel, mileage or automobile-related allowances or reimbursements; bonuses or performance awards; overtime or premium payments; or any other special, unusual or nonrecurring payment.
The City of Atlanta may amend this provision at any time to the extent permitted by applicable law.
(Ord. No. 1985-71, § 1, 11-12-85; Ord. No. 2004-84, § I(1), 11-16-04; Ord. No. 2004-87, § 1, 12-10-04)
Note— Section 12 of Ord. No. 2004-87 provided for an effective date for this section of Jan. 1, 2004.
Editor's note— The ordinances listed in the left-hand column below are found in the state session laws at the location listed opposite them in the right-hand column below:
EXPAND
Georgia Laws
Ord. No. Year Page
1985-71 — —
  Sec. 6-92. - Distribution Requirements.
(a)
The requirements of this section shall apply to the distribution of all benefits under this Act, 1927 Ga. Laws, page 265, as amended, and will take precedence over any inconsistent provisions of this Act.
(b)
All distributions required under this section will be determined and made in accordance with section 401(a)(9) of the U.S. Internal Revenue Code (the 'Code'), including the incidental death benefit requirements of Code section 401 (a)(9)(G), and the regulations thereunder.
(c)
The entire benefit of an officer or employee under this act will be distributed beginning not later than his required beginning date over the life of such officer or employee or, if applicable, over the lives of such officer or employee and a designated beneficiary. `Required beginning date' shall mean April 1 of the calendar year following the later of (1) the calendar year in which the officer or employee attains age 70½ or (2) the calendar year in which the officer or employee terminates employment.
(d)
If the distribution of a benefit has begun in accordance with subsection (c) above and the officer or employee dies before his entire benefit has been distributed to him, the remaining portion of such benefit will be distributed at least as rapidly as under the method of distribution being used as of the date of his death.
(e)
If an officer or employee dies before the distribution of his benefit has begun in accordance with subsection (c) above, his interest will be distributed to his designated beneficiary (as defined in Code section 401(a)(9)(E)) over a period not extending beyond the life or life expectancy of such beneficiary, beginning not later than December 31 of the calendar year following the calendar year of the officer's or employee's death. If such benefit is payable to (or for the benefit of) his or her surviving spouse or domestic partner, the date on which the distributions are required to begin shall not be earlier than December 31 of the calendar year in which the officer or employee would have attained age 70½. If the spouse or domestic partner dies before the distribution to such spouse or domestic partner is made or begun, this subsection (e) shall be applied as if the surviving spouse or domestic partner were the officer or employee.
(f)
If an officer or employee dies before the distribution of his benefit has begun in accordance with the foregoing provisions of this section and the officer or employee does not have a designated beneficiary (as defined in Code section 401(a)(9)(E)), the officer's or employee's benefit, if any, shall be distributed in a single lump-sum payment by December 31 of the year in which occurs the five-year anniversary of the officer's or employee's death."
(Ord. No. 2004-84, § I(2), 11-16-04; Ord. No. 2004-87, § 2, 12-10-04; Ord. No. 2006-12, § 3, 3-23-06)
Note— Section 12 of Ord. No. 2004-87 provided for an effective date for this section of Jan. 1, 1997.
Sec. 6-93. - Limitation on benefits.
(a)
Basic limitation. Notwithstanding any provision of this Act, 1927 Ga. Laws, page 265, as amended, to the contrary, the amount of an officer's or employee's annual retirement benefit, calculated as a single life annuity commencing before age 62 or after age 65, shall not exceed $160,000.00, as adjusted as of the first day of each limitation year to the dollar limitation determined by the Commissioner of Internal Revenue pursuant to regulations issued by the Secretary of the Treasury under the authority granted by section 415(d) of the U.S. Internal Revenue Code (the "Code") (the "Maximum Permissible Dollar Amount"). For purposes of this section, the term 'limitation year' shall mean the calendar year.
As of each January 1, the dollar limitation as determined by the Commissioner of Internal Revenue for that calendar year will become effective as the maximum permissible dollar amount for that calendar year. The dollar limitation applicable to officers and employees who have commenced distribution of their benefit shall be adjusted annually to reflect any changes to the maximum permissible dollar amount.
Employee contributions treated as employer contributions made pursuant to section 6-37(u) shall be considered a part of the benefit subject to the limitations of this section. Officer or employee contributions for prior service with certain other employers shall be subject to the rules of section 6-94. Employee contributions not made pursuant to section 6-37(u) and not made for credit for prior service with certain other employers shall be converted to an annual benefit amount pursuant to Code section 411(c)(2)(B) and shall be subtracted from the total annual benefit subject to the limitations of this subsection (a), provided that such contributions shall be considered to be a separate defined contribution plan maintained by the City of Atlanta and subject to the limitations of Code section 415(c).
If the form of payment under the act is other than a straight-life annuity (with no ancillary benefits), or if the officer or employee has made mandatory or voluntary contributions or rollover contributions, or if any portion of the payment is attributable to assets transferred to the fund from another qualified plan not maintained by the City of Atlanta, the benefit shall be adjusted so that it is actuarially equivalent to a straight-life annuity with no ancillary benefits. For purposes of adjusting any benefit, the actuarially equivalent amount shall be the greater, of: (i) the annual amount of the straight life annuity (if any) payable to the officer or employee under the act commencing at the same annuity starting date as the form of benefit payable to the officer or employee; or (ii) the annual amount of the straight life annuity commencing at the same annuity starting date that has the same actuarial present value as the form of benefit payable to the officer or employee, computed using a five percent interest rate and the applicable mortality table. No actuarial adjustment shall be required to reflect the value of any of the following: (A) that portion of any joint and survivor annuity that constitutes a qualified joint and survivor annuity (as defined in Code section 417), (B) benefits that are not directly related to retirement benefits, such as pre-retirement disability and death benefits and post-retirement medical benefits; and (C) post-retirement cost-of-living increases made in accordance with Code section 415(d) and the regulations thereunder.
The provisions of this section 6-93 shall be applied in accordance with the rules of Code section 415 and the regulations thereunder, and the relevant provisions of the regulations are incorporated by reference herein. If payments to or on behalf of an officer or employee begin on multiple dates, the rules of this Section 6-93 shall be applied on each such date to the relevant portion of the benefit.
(b)
Exception to basic limitation. If the annual retirement benefit payable to an officer or employee under this act does not exceed $10,000.00 for the limitation year with respect to which a determination is being made or any prior limitation year, and the City of Atlanta has not at any time maintained a defined contribution plan (as determined pursuant to the Code section 415(d) regulations) in which the officer or employee has participated, the limitation otherwise imposed by subsection (a) shall not apply. For purposes of determining whether any officer or employee has ever participated in a defined contribution plan, mandatory employee contributions to any defined benefit plan maintained by the City of Atlanta are not to be treated as a separate defined contribution plan maintained by the City of Atlanta.
(c)
Reduction for fewer than ten years of participation. If an officer or employee has participated under the provisions of this act for fewer than ten years, the maximum permissible dollar amount shall be adjusted by multiplying such limitation by a fraction, the numerator of which is the number of the officer's or employee's years of participation as of such date (and any fraction thereof) and the denominator of which is ten. The foregoing reduction shall not apply to (1) disability retirement benefits received by an officer or employee under this act or (2) death benefits received by an officer's or employee's beneficiary under this act.
(d)
Actuarial adjustment when benefits commence before age 62 or after age 65. If an officer's or employee's annual retirement benefit commences before he attains age 62, the maximum permissible dollar amount for the limitation year shall be reduced so that it is the actuarial equivalent of the maximum permissible dollar amount that would be applicable if the retirement benefit had commenced at age 62.
The actuarially equivalent amount shall be equal to the lesser of (A) the maximum permissible dollar amount multiplied by the ratio of the annual retirement benefit payable under the act at the time payments are scheduled to commence, without regard to the limits of this section 6-93, to the annual retirement benefit commencing at age 62, without regard to the limits of this section 6-93, and (B) the actuarially equivalent amount using a five percent interest rate and the applicable mortality table. To the extent that benefits will not be forfeited upon the death of the officer or employee, the mortality decrement shall be ignored for purposes of determining any reduction in the dollar limitation. If any benefits are forfeited upon death, the full mortality decrement shall be taken into account. If an officer's or employee's annual retirement benefit commences after age 65, the maximum permissible dollar amount for the limitation year shall be increased so that it is the actuarial equivalent of the maximum permissible dollar amount at age 65. The actuarially equivalent amount shall be equal to the lesser of: (A) the maximum permissible dollar amount multiplied by the ratio of the annual retirement benefit under the act at the time payments are scheduled to commence, disregarding accruals after age 65 and without regard to the limits of this section 6-93, to the annual retirement benefit commencing at age 65, without regard to the limits of this section 6-93, and (B) the actuarially equivalent amount determined using a five percent interest rate and the applicable mortality table.
Notwithstanding the foregoing, the maximum permissible dollar amount shall not be reduced by reason of the commencement of annual retirement benefits before age 62 for (1) any full-time officer or employee with at least 15 years of full-time service with any police or fire department that is organized and operated by the City of Atlanta, (2) disability retirement benefits paid to an officer or employee pursuant to this act or (3) a death benefit paid to a beneficiary pursuant to this act.
(e)
Applicable mortality table. On or after January 1 2008, "Applicable mortality table" shall mean the mortality table specified by the Secretary of the Treasury pursuant to Code section 417(e)(3)(B). Before January 1, 2008, "Applicable mortality table" shall mean the mortality table prescribed by Revenue Ruling 2001-62, 2001-2C.B. 632, or any successor revenue ruling, notice or other guidance provided by the Commissioner of Internal Revenue that establishes a replacement mortality table pursuant to Code section 415(b)(2)(E)(v).
(f)
Preservation of old law benefits. In the case of an officer or employee who participated in one or more defined benefit plans of the City of Atlanta as of the first day of the first limitation year beginning after December 31, 1994, the application of the limitations of this section shall not cause the maximum permissible benefit for such officer or employee under all such defined benefit plans to be less than the officer's or employee's RPA '94 Old-Law Benefit.
For officers or employees with RPA '94 Old-Law Benefits, for purposes of determining whether an officer's or employee's benefit exceeds the limitations of this section after December 31, 1999 (the "RPA '94 Freeze Date"), an officer's or employee's total annual benefit under the act calculated as a straight life annuity shall be determined, and this benefit shall not exceed the maximum permissible dollar amount applicable to the officer or employee. Where an officer's or employee's benefit must be adjusted to an actuarially equivalent straight life annuity, such adjustment shall be calculated as provided under subsection (a) above.
In no event shall an officer or employee receive less than the officer's or employee's RPA '94 Old-Law Benefit. For purposes of determining that an officer or employee receives no less than the officer's or employee's RPA '94 Old-Law Benefit, the limitation applicable to the officer's or employee's RPA '94 Old-Law Benefit ("Old-Law Limitation") shall be determined, and the officer or employee shall receive the RPA '94 Old-Law Benefit to the extent it does not exceed such old-law limitation. Before January 1, 2000 (the "final implementation date"), adjustments to the old-law limitation for benefits that commence before age 62 or after age 65 shall be calculated as provided under Code section 415(b)(2)(E) and the terms of the act as in effect on December 7, 1994. On or after the final implementation date, adjustments to the old law limitation for commencement of benefits before age 62 or after age 65 shall be calculated as provided in subsection (d) above. In no event, however, may an officer's or employee's old-law benefit exceed the officer's or employee's old-law benefit as of the RPA '94 Freeze Date.
For the purposes of this subsection, the term "RPA '94 Old-Law Benefit" shall mean the officer's or employee's accrued benefit under the terms of the act as of the RPA '94 Freeze Date, for the annuity starting date and optional form and taking into account the limitations of Code section 415 as in effect on December 7, 1994, including the participation requirements under Code section 415(b)(5). In determining the amount of an officer's or employee's RPA Old-Law Benefit, the following shall be disregarded: (1) any ordinance or amendment to the act increasing benefits adopted after the RPA '94 Freeze Date, and (2) any cost-of-living adjustments that become effective under Code section 415(d) after the RPA '94 Freeze Date.
If, at any date after the RPA '94 Freeze Date, the officer's or employee's total benefit under the act, before the application of Code section 415, is less than the officer's or employee's old-law benefit, the RPA '94 Old-Law Benefit will be reduced to a benefit equal to the officer's or employee's total benefit.
The use of a different interest rate and mortality table may not increase an officer's or employee's RPA '94 Old-Law Benefit to an amount greater than such benefit as of the RPA '94 Freeze Date.
(Ord. No. 2004-84, § I(3), 11-16-04; Ord. No. 2004-87, § 3, 12-10-04; Ord. No. 2010-67(10-O-1893), § 1, 12-15-10)
Note— Section 12 of Ord. No. 2004-87 provided for an effective date for this section of Jan. 1, 2002.
Sec. 6-94. - Treatment of employee contributions for prior service with certain other employers.
(a)
Basic Limitation. If an officer or employee makes one or more contributions under this act, 1927 Ga. Laws, page 265, as amended, to purchase permissive service credit on or after January 1, 1998, the requirements of section 6-93 shall be treated as satisfied if either:
(1)
The requirements of section 415(b) of the U.S. Internal Revenue Code (the 'Code') are satisfied, determined by treating the accrued benefit derived from all contributions under this act for permissive service credit as an annual benefit for purposes of Code section 415(b), provided, however, that the reduced limit under Code section 415(b)(2)(C) (as described in section 6-93(d)) shall not be exceeded solely by reason of this section 6-94; or
(2)
The requirements of Code section 415(c) are satisfied, determined by treating all contributions under this act for permissive service credit as an annual addition for purposes of Code section 415(c), provided, however, that the percentage limitation under Code section 415(c)(1)(B) shall not be exceeded solely by reason of this section 6-94.
(b)
Limitation on Nonqualified Service. Notwithstanding the foregoing, not more than five years of permissive service credit attributable to nonqualified service shall be taken into account for purposes of this section, and no permissive service credit shall be taken into account before the officer or employee has participated under the provisions of this act for at least five years.
(c)
Definitions.
(1)
Permissive Service Credit. For purposes of this section, the term `permissive service credit' shall mean service credit that (A) is recognized under this act for purposes of calculating an officer's or employee's benefit, (B) such officer or employee has not received under this act and (C) such officer or employee may receive only by making a voluntary additional contribution in an amount determined under this act that does not exceed the amount necessary to fund the benefit attributable to such service credit.
(2)
Nonqualified Service. For purposes of this section, the term 'nonqualified service' means service for which permissive service credit is allowed, other than:
(A)
service (including parental, medical, sabbatical and similar leave) as an employee of the Government of the United States, any State or political subdivision thereof or any agency or instrumentality of any of the foregoing (other than military service or service for credit that was obtained as a result of a repayment under Code section 415(k)(3));
(B)
service (including parental, medical, sabbatical and similar leave) as an employee (other than as an employee described in clause (A) above) of an educational organization described in Code section 170(b)(1)(A)(ii) that is a public, private or sectarian school providing elementary or secondary education (through grade 12), as determined under the laws of the State of Georgia;
(C)
service as an employee of an association of employees who are described in clause (A), above; or
(D)
military service (other than qualified military service under Code section 414(u)) recognized under this act.
In the case of service described in clauses (A), (B) or (C), such service will be nonqualified service if recognition of such service would cause an officer or employee to receive a retirement benefit for the same service under more than one retirement plan.
(Ord. No. 2004-84, § I(4), 11-16-04; Ord. No. 2004-87, § 4, 12-10-04)
Note— Section 12 of Ord. No. 2004-87 provided for an effective date for this section of Jan. 1, 2002.
Sec. 6-95. - Limitation on monthly earnings.
For the period from January 1, 1996 to December 31, 2001, the annual compensation of each officer and employee taken into account for determining all benefits provided under this Act, 1927 Ga. Laws, page 265, as amended, for any year shall not exceed $150,000.00, as adjusted for the cost of living in accordance with Section 401(a)(17)(B) of the U.S. Internal Revenue Code (the "Code"). For years beginning on and after January 1, 2002, the annual compensation of each officer and employee taken into account for determining all benefits provided under this Act for any year shall not exceed $200,000.00, as adjusted for the cost of living in accordance with Code Section 401(a)(17)(B).
If compensation for any prior year is taken into account in determining the benefits of an officer or employee, the compensation for such prior year shall be subject to the applicable annual compensation limit in effect under Code Section 401(a)(17) for that prior year. Notwithstanding the foregoing, effective January 1, 2002, the limit on compensation taken into account with regard to years before January 1, 2002 shall be increased to $200,000.00, and the monthly benefit of officers and employees who have terminated employment, including officers and employees who have commenced receiving a benefit, shall be recalculated to reflect such increase.
The annual compensation of an officer or employee who commenced participation under this Act before January 1, 1996 shall not be limited by the terms of this section.
For the purposes of compliance with the requirements of Code Section 415, on or after January 1, 2009, the definition of "compensation" shall include differential wage payments within the meaning of Code Section 414(u)(12).
(Ord. No. 2004-84, § I(5), 11-16-04; Ord. No. 2004-87, § 5, 12-10-04; Ord. No. 2015-06(14-O-1633), § 2, 2-26-15 )
Note— Section 12 of Ord. No. 2004-87 provided for an effective date for this section of Jan. 1, 1996.
Sec. 6-96. - Uniformed Services Employment and Reemployment Rights Act.
Notwithstanding any other provision of this Act, 1927 Ga. Laws, page 265, as amended, to the contrary, contributions, benefits and service credit with respect to qualified military service will be provided in accordance with section 414(u) of the U.S. Internal Revenue Code.
(Ord. No. 2004-84, § I(6), 11-16-04; Ord. No. 2004-87, § 6, 12-10-04)
Note— Section 12 of Ord. No. 2004-87 provided for an effective date for this section of Dec. 12, 1994.
Sec. 6-97. - Supplemental benefit arrangement.
(a)
Purpose. The purpose of this Supplemental Benefit Arrangement is to provide officers and employees participating under the provisions of this act, 1927 Ga. Laws, page 265, as amended, with the full amount of benefit intended under the act, without regard to the limitations imposed by section 415 of the U.S. Internal Revenue Code (the `Code').
(b)
Benefits. If the annual retirement benefit of an officer or employee under the act is reduced as a result of the limitations in Code section 415 (as described in sections 6-93 and 6-94) such officer or employee shall receive an amount from the Supplemental Benefit Arrangement equal to the difference between (i) the amount that would have been payable under the terms of the act without the application of Code section 415 and (ii) the amount payable under the terms of the act determined with the application of the limitations in Code section 415.
(c)
Elective Deferrals Not Permitted. Officers and employees shall not be permitted to defer compensation either directly or indirectly under the Supplemental Benefit Arrangement at any time.
(d)
Subfund. Notwithstanding any other provision of the Act, the benefits payable under this section shall be paid from the assets of a subfund established under the existing fund, provided that such subfund shall be maintained solely for the purpose of providing benefits under the Supplemental Benefit Arrangement. The assets of the fund (other than the subfund) shall not be used to pay benefits under this section.
(Ord. No. 2004-84, § I(7), 11-16-04; Ord. No. 2004-87, § 7, 12-10-04)
Note— Section 12 of Ord. No. 2004-87 provided for an effective date for this section of Jan. 1, 2004.
Sec. 6-98. - Eligible rollover distributions.
(a)
General rule. The distributee of any eligible rollover distribution made under this Act, 1927 Ga. Laws, page 265, as amended, may elect, in the manner and at the time specified by the board of trustees, to have any portion of an eligible rollover distribution paid directly to an eligible retirement plan specified by the distributee in a direct rollover.
(b)
Definitions.
(1)
Distributee. For purposes of this section, a "distributee" shall include any current or former officer or employee who has a right to a benefit under this act. In addition, a 'distributee' shall include the current or former officer's or employee's surviving spouse, as well as the current or former officer's or employee's current or former spouse who is the alternate payee under a qualified domestic relations order as defined in Code section 414(p). Effective January 1, 2010, a "distributee" shall include a non-spouse beneficiary who is a designated beneficiary within the meaning of Code section 401(a)(9)(E).
(2)
Eligible rollover distribution. For purposes of this section, an 'eligible rollover distribution' is any distribution from the fund established under the act of all or any portion of the balance to the credit of the distributee, except that an eligible rollover distribution does not include: any distribution that is one of a series of substantially equal periodic payments (not less frequently than annually) made for the life (or life expectancy) of the distributee or the joint lives (or joint life expectancies) of the distributee and the distributee's designated beneficiary, or for a specified period of ten years or more; any distribution to the extent such distribution is required under section 401(a)(9) of the U.S. Internal Revenue Code (the 'Code'); and any hardship distribution. All or a portion of a distribution shall not fail to be an eligible rollover distribution merely because the distribution includes after-tax employee contributions that are not includible in gross income, provided, however, that such amounts may only be paid to a plan that constitutes an eligible retirement plan with respect to a distribution or portion of a distribution constituting after-tax contributions, as defined below.
(3)
Eligible retirement plan. For purposes of this section, an 'eligible retirement plan' is an individual retirement account or annuity described in Code sections 408(a) or 408(b); a qualified trust described in Code section 401(a); an annuity plan described in Code section 403(a); an annuity contract described in Code section 403(b); and an eligible deferred compensation plan described in 457(b) that is maintained by a state, a political subdivision of a state, or any agency or instrumentality of a state or political subdivision of a state and that agrees to account separately for amounts transferred into such plan from this fund; and effective January 1, 2008, a Roth IRA described in Code section 408A. With respect to that portion of an eligible rollover distribution that consists of after-tax contributions that are not includible in gross income, an eligible retirement plan shall include only an individual retirement account or annuity described in Code sections 408(a) or (b) or a qualified defined contribution plan described in Code sections 401(a) or 403(a) that agrees to account separately for the amounts so transferred, including separate accounting for that portion of such distribution that is not includible in gross income. In the case of a distribution to a non-spouse beneficiary, the term eligible retirement plan shall include only an inherited individual retirement account described in Code section 408(a) or an inherited individual retirement annuity described in Code section 408(b).
(c)
Mandatory distributions. Effective January 1, 2006, if with respect to any mandatory distribution in excess of $1,000.00 that is an eligible rollover distribution a distributee does not make an election pursuant to subsection (a) above and does not elect to receive the distribution directly, the amount of the distribution shall be transferred to an individual retirement plan as described in Code section 408(a) or 408(b) of a designated trustee or issuer, and the distributee shall be notified in writing that the distribution may be transferred to such an individual retirement plan.
(Ord. No. 2004-84, § I(8), 11-16-04; Ord. No. 2004-87, § 8, 12-10-04; Ord. No. 2006-12, § 4, 3-23-06; Ord. No. 2010-67(10-O-1893), § 2, 12-15-10)
Note— Section 12 of Ord. No. 2004-87 provided for an effective date for this section of Jan. 1, 2002.
Sec. 6-99. - Employees of the Atlanta Independent School System.
Employees of the Atlanta Independent School System, or any predecessor entity, who are not participating in the Teachers Retirement System of Georgia, shall be eligible to participate under the provisions of this Act, 1927 Ga. Laws, page 265, as amended, under the same terms and conditions that are applicable to officers and employees of the City of Atlanta, and service with the Atlanta Independent School System, or any predecessor entity, shall be treated as service with the City of Atlanta for the purpose of determining an employee's benefits under this Act.
(Ord. No. 2004-84, § I(9), 11-16-04; Ord. No. 2004-87, § 9, 12-10-04)
Note— Section 12 of Ord. No. 2004-87 provided that the provisions of section 9 of said ordinance shall be effective as of the date on which the Atlanta Independent School System, or any predecessor entity, first employed the individual.
Sec. 6-100. - Exclusive benefit.
At no time prior to the satisfaction of all liabilities with respect to officers and employees participating under the provisions of this Act, 1927 Ga. Laws, page 265, as amended, and their beneficiaries shall any part of the corpus or income of the fund established under this act be used for, or diverted to, purposes other than for the exclusive benefit of such officers, employees and beneficiaries, except that a contribution by an employer to the fund established under this act made under a mistake of fact may be returned to such employer within one year after the payment of the contribution.
(Ord. No. 2004-84, § I(10), 11-16-04; Ord. No. 2004-87, § 10, 12-10-04)
Note— Section 12 of Ord. No. 2004-87 provided for an effective date for this section of Jan. 1, 1997.
Sec. 6-101. - Minimum vesting standards.
Upon the termination of the fund established under this Act, 1927 Ga. Laws, page 265, as amended, or upon complete discontinuance of contributions under the act, the rights of all officers and employees to benefits accrued to the date of such termination or discontinuance, to the extent then funded, shall be nonforfeitable.
(Ord. No. 2004-84, § I(11), 11-16-04; Ord. No. 2004-87, § 11, 12-10-04)
Note— Section 12 of Ord. No. 2004-87 provided for an effective date for this section of Jan. 1, 1997.
Sec. 6-102. - Credit for service while covered by the City of Atlanta Defined Contribution Plan.
Effective September 1, 2005, a participant in the City of Atlanta Defined Contribution Plan (the "Defined Contribution Plan") who (i) is a permanent, full-time employee of the City of Atlanta, (ii) is either a classified employee, as defined in section 114-84 of the Code of Ordinances of the City of Atlanta, or an employee whose payroll grade level is 18 or below and (iii) either has never received a distribution from the Defined Contribution Plan or has repaid to the Defined Contribution Plan the full amount of any prior distribution pursuant to the terms of such plan, may elect at any time before January 31, 2005 to transfer his vested and unvested account balance under the Defined Contribution Plan, excluding any amounts attributable to rollover contributions from other plans and voluntary after-tax employee contributions made under the Defined Contribution Plan, to the fund established under this act, 1927 Ga. Laws, page 265, as amended, and shall be credited with (A) such service and monthly earnings as the employee would have been credited if he had participated under the terms this act during the period that he participated in the Defined Contribution Plan and (B) if such employee previously participated under the terms of this act and elected to transfer the actuarial present value of his benefit under this act to the Defined Contribution Plan pursuant to Ordinance No. 02-O-0791, such service and monthly earnings as were used to determine the amount so transferred.
(Ord. No. 2005-81, § 1, 11-22-05)
Sec. 6-103. - Thirty-year retirement.
(a)
Any officer or employee who is a member of the General Employees Pension Fund, and whose creditable service before credit for accrued unused sick leave equals at least 30 years shall be entitled to a monthly pension benefit upon retirement without any reduction for any age or vesting penalties as would otherwise be applicable.
(b)
The Mayor or its designee is authorized to abolish any position that becomes vacant as a result of this 30 years or more service retirement program.
(c)
The Chief Financial Officer or its designee is authorized to transfer expenses between various departments' personnel line items to accommodate the inequity from savings realized between departments.
(d)
The Chief Financial Officer or its designee is authorized to transfer funds to the General Employees' Fund as needed and as savings accrue, to reduce the transfers accordingly.
(Ord. No. 2005-72, §§ 1—4, 11-14-05)
Sec. 6-104. - Application of Pension Modification pursuant to City Related Laws Section 6-2.
There has been raised and established funds for the relief and pensioning of members of nonuniformed officers and employees of the City of Atlanta who were in active service on or after the date of the passage of this act ("General Employees' Pension Fund"). The terms of the General Employees' Pension Fund have been modified by City Related Laws Section 6-2. The terms of the General Employees' Pension Fund shall be as set forth in City Related Laws Sections 6-36 through 6-140, as amended by Related Laws Section 6-2. The retirement plan and benefits of the following members of the General Employees' Pension Fund shall not be impacted by Related Laws Section 6-2: 1) members who were active service City Employees on November 1, 2011 who were hired by the City and joined the General Employees' Pension Fund prior to January 1, 1984, and had continuous City service, or had had a break in service and purchased the interim pension benefits upon rehire: and 2) members who retired before November 1, 2011.
(Ord. No. 2011-27(11-O-0672), § 13, 6-29-11)
Secs. 6-105—6-140. - Reserved.
DIVISION 2. - BOARD OF TRUSTEES

Sec. 6-141. - Board of trustees; constituted, membership, duties.
(a)
"Mayor" shall be deemed to include the chief executive officer of any city coming within the provisions of this act. "City comptroller" shall include any officer by whatever title designated who performs the duties in whole or in part of a city comptroller. "Aldermanic board" shall include the legislative body of any such city. "Board of education" shall include any board or body performing the duties usually assigned to a board of education.
(b)
There is hereby established a board of trustees whose duty it shall be to see that the provisions of this act are carried out and that funds are kept separate. Said board of trustees shall be composed of the mayor, the city commissioner of finance, one member of the aldermanic board to be appointed by the mayor annually, one member of the board of education to be elected annually by the board of education, two members to be elected every three years by the members of the school department participating in said pension plan, and one member to be elected every three years by the nonschool employees participating in said pension plan. The board of trustees shall also include one member elected every three years by the retired members of the school department participating in said pension plan, and one member elected every three years by the retired nonschool employees participating in said pension plan. Any trustee who is not a member by virtue of his office and who misses three consecutive meetings, after being properly notified thereof, shall be replaced as a trustee at the next scheduled election.
If a vacancy occurs in the office of a trustee and there is more than six months before the term of such trustee expires, a special election shall be called by the board of trustees to fill such vacancy for the remainder of the unexpired term. If a vacancy occurs in the office of a trustee and there is six months or less before the term of such trustee expires, the vacancy shall be filled for the unexpired term by the remaining trustees. Should a member of the board of trustees, either elected by the members of the school department participating in such pension plan or elected by the nonschool employees participating in such pension plan, retire before his term of office expires, the office of such trustee shall be declared vacant and shall be filled as provided above.
The board of trustees shall be authorized to make all rules necessary in carrying out the provisions of this act relative to electing members to the board of trustees; provided, however, that the names of candidates in any election shall be sent to those persons eligible to vote not more than 45 days nor less than 30 days before the said election.
In all cities subsequently coming under this act, the first elections shall be held at the first regular meeting of the governing authorities of said city after the population shall be determined. Said board of trustees shall elect a chairman and a secretary thereof and all members of the board shall serve without pay except the secretary who shall be paid $50 per month from the pension fund. When any pension has been granted by said board, a check shall be drawn on the fund provided for the payment of the pension each month during the life of the pensioner, signed by the secretary. The board of trustees shall be authorized to pay out of the pension fund all necessary expenses in the operation of said board. Said board is authorized to make all necessary rules for the carrying out of the provisions of this act, to reconcile conflicts therein, if any shall exist, and to provide for the equitable disposition of any matter not specifically covered by this act, provided that all such rules must be consistent with the terms and spirit of this act. Provided that if such city has an administrative assistant to the mayor that the mayor shall have the privilege of designating such administrative assistant to the mayor to serve on the board of trustees in his stead and, when so acting, he shall have all the powers herein conveyed to the mayor.
(c)
The position of one of the two members to be elected every three years by members of the school system participating in the pension plan, is hereby abolished, thereby reducing the total number of members of the board of trustees from ten to nine.
(1927 Ga. Laws, page 265, § 4; 1952 Ga. Laws, page 2765, § 2; 1953 Ga. Laws, Nov.-Dec. Sess., page 2770, § 3; 1963 Ga. Laws, page 3061, §§ 1, 2; 1964 Ga. Laws, page 2407, §§ 1, 2; 1974 Ga. Laws, page 3546, § 1; 1982 Ga. Laws, page 4385, § 1A; Ord. No. 1985-49, § 1, 8-9-85; Ord. No. 1992-45, § 1, 7-28-92; Ord. No. 1992-58, § 1, 9-21-92; Ord. No. 1994-13, § 1, 3-24-94; Ord. No. 1999-76, § 1, 10-26-99)
Editor's note— The ordinances listed in the left-hand column below are found in the state session laws at the location listed opposite them in the right-hand column below:
EXPAND
Georgia Laws
Ord. No. Year Page
1985-49 — —
1992-45 — —
1992-58 — —
1994-13 — —
  Sec. 6-142. - Appeals from decisions of board of trustees; procedure.
(a)
A majority of the board of trustees shall control on all disputed questions.
(b)
Whenever an application for disability pension, whether in line of duty or not in line of duty, has been filed, the applicant shall submit therewith a signed certificate from a licensed, practicing physician of Georgia certifying to the applicant's total and permanent disability from his or her regular, assigned or comparable duties with such city and that, where applicable, in the opinion of such physician, such disability was either caused by or resulted from an accident or injury sustained on the job. Immediately thereupon, the board of trustees shall direct the applicant to submit to an examination by physicians chosen by the board who likewise shall certify the physical or mental ability or disability of the applicant, and, where applicable, whether in the opinion of such physicians, such disability was either caused by or resulted from an accident or injury sustained on the job. In the event the certificates of the respective physicians shall be in general agreement with respect to such matters, such facts shall be conclusive as to the physical or mental condition of the applicant and the board shall thereupon approve such pension in the proper amount. In the event the certificate tendered by the applicant and the certification of the physicians chosen by the board shall disagree as to the condition of the applicant and where applicable, the cause of the disability, then and in that event, the board of trustees shall conduct a hearing for the purpose of determining the true condition of the applicant, and where applicable, the cause of such disability. Such hearing shall be conducted informally by the examination of witnesses for and in opposition to such application who shall be sworn; and the applicant, the city, and the board of trustees may be represented by legal counsel if they so desire. The board of trustees shall be authorized to promulgate reasonable rules and procedures, not inconsistent with general legal principles, governing the manner in which such hearings shall be conducted. The decision of the board after the hearing, shall be final as to the physical or mental condition of the applicant, and where applicable, as to whether the disability is compensable as one incurred in the line of duty, provided however, such proceeding shall be subject to review by writ of certiorari to the Superior Court in and for the county in which such municipality lies, or if such municipality lies in more than one county, then to the Superior Court of the county in which the greater part of such municipality lies. The secretary-treasurer of the board of trustees shall be authorized to acknowledge service of any such writ and shall, within the time provided by law, certify and cause to be filed with the clerk of said superior court a record of the proceedings before the board, including a copy of the application for disability pension or other relief involved, the decision of the board and the notice of the board's action as provided to the pension applicant. Where appeals are taken by a pension applicant as provided herein, the board of trustees shall be the respondent and the city shall be the defendant.
(c)
The method of appeal as provided herein shall also serve as the method by which all other disputed pension questions shall be appealed.
(1981 Ga. Laws, page 4376, §§ 2, 10; 1982 Ga. Laws, page 4385, § 1)
Sec. 6-143. - Investment of excess funds.
In the event there should accumulate more funds than are needed for immediate use, the board of trustees are empowered to invest such excess funds in United States or State of Georgia bonds, general obligation bonds of any municipality of this state, revenue certificates issued by the City of Atlanta, street improvement bonds issued by the City of Atlanta, and in notes given by property owners for deferred payments of street improvement liens as provided by the act of 1919 (Ga. Laws, page 821 et seq.), as amended; also in any other bonds or securities authorized by law as legal investment by trustees.
(1957 Ga. Laws, page 3331, § 1; Ord. No. 1985-49, § 2, 8-9-85; Ord. No. 1992-45, § 2, 7-28-92; Ord. No. 1994-13, § 2, 3-24-94)
Editor's note— The ordinances listed in the left-hand column below are found in the state session laws at the location listed opposite them in the right-hand column below:
EXPAND
Georgia Laws
Ord. No. Year Page
1985-49 — —
1992-45 — —
1994-13 —
  Sec. 6-144. - Actuarial investigation.
The board of trustees of this retirement system shall have the system's actuary make an actuarial investigation every three (3) years or more often as the board, in its discretion may deem proper. Such actuarial investigation shall include the results of any actuarial investigation into the then current assumptions as to rates of interest, mortality, disability, withdrawal and retirement. The actuarial investigation shall also include consideration of the experience of the retirement system under its assumptions and a comparison of results with the previous actuarial investigations and may also include such other studies as may be necessary or desirable for the completeness and accuracy of the actuarial investigation. The actuarial investigation shall also include a valuation of the contingent assets and liabilities of the retirement system and a determination of the payment necessary to amortize over a stated period any unfunded accrued liability disclosed. As an exhibit to the actuarial investigation, the retirement system board of trustees shall attach a copy of all the provisions of the plan for the retirement system, including the requirements and conditions for qualifying to participate, the nature of benefits under the plan, and the manner in which the local retirement system is funded. The board of trustees of the retirement system shall file with the state auditor a copy of each actuarial investigation.
(1978 Ga. Laws, page 4504, § 1; 1979 Ga. Laws, page 3627, § 1)
Secs. 6-145—6-170. - Reserved.
DIVISION 3. - BENEFITS

Sec. 6-171. - Amount of pension, maximum designated.
When such officer or employee shall retire as a matter of right, he shall be paid one-half (½) of the salary he was receiving at the time of his retirement, for the rest of his life, to be paid monthly. The maximum amount to be paid to any officer or employee as a pension, under this act, shall be the sum of $100 per month, except as otherwise provided herein. Provided, however, the amount of the pension shall be increased five dollars ($5.00) per month for each full year's service not in excess of 10 years, rendered by the officer or employee after the time when he might have retired as a matter of right. The records, kept in the office of the comptroller of such city, shall be conclusive as to the time served.
(1927 Ga. Laws, page 265, § 3; 1935 Ga. Laws, page 445, § 1; 1947 Ga. Laws, page 1635, § 3; 1952 Ga. Laws, page 2765, § 3)
Editor's note— The provisions compiled in the above section were repealed by 1978 Ga. Laws, page 4546 but have been retained at the request of the city due to their applicability to certain individuals.
Sec. 6-172. - Reduction of certain pensions.
All pensioners now receiving pension under the provisions of this act, shall after May 1, 1935, receive pensions in accordance with these provisions and any pensioners now drawing pensions in excess of the maximum herein fixed, shall be reduced to the maximum herein specified so that no person now on pension rolls under this act will after May 1, 1935, receive a pension in excess of the amount of $100.
(1935 Ga. Laws, page 445, § 1)
Editor's note— The provisions compiled in the above section were repealed by 1978 Ga. Laws, page 4546 but have been retained at the request of the city due to their applicability to certain individuals.
Sec. 6-173. - Employees dying with not less than 10 years' service; benefits payable.
Where any employee participating in the provisions of this act shall die while in active service and after having had not less than five (5) years of active service prior to his death, his beneficiary as defined in this act, shall be entitled to receive a pension representing three-fourths (¾) of the amount that said member would have been entitled to receive in the future had such member not died but had become as of the date of his death totally and permanently disabled within the provisions of this act. In other words, the amount paid to such beneficiary shall represent three-fourths (¾) of the amounts that such member would have received had such member not died but on the other hand had become, as of the date of death, totally and permanently disabled within the provisions of this act, and as provided in section 9 below. Fractional parts of years shall be counted in determining the amount of the pension to be paid to the beneficiary of an employee who shall die while in the active service of the city and after having had not less than five (5) years of active service prior to his death.
(1941 Ga. Laws, page 468, § 3; 1953 Ga. Laws, Nov.-Dec. Sess., page 2776, § 2; 1966 Ga. Laws, page 3002, § 1; 1973 Ga. Laws, page 3768, § 1)
Sec. 6-174. - Employee killed in line of duty; benefits payable.
Whenever any officer or employee coming within the provisions of this act, as amended, shall be killed in the line of duty during the first five (5) years of his employment, the beneficiary of such officer or employee shall be paid five twenty-fifths ( 5/25 ) of a full 25 year service pension. If such officer or employee is killed in line of duty after having served five (5) years in the service of said city, his said beneficiary shall receive a pro rata part of a full service pension, to be calculated in the manner provided herein. Fractional parts of years shall be counted in determining the pro rata part of a full service pension when the officer or employee is killed in the line of duty after having served five (5) years in the service of said city.
(1962 Ga. Laws, page 3138, § 1; 1966 Ga. Laws, page 3002, § 2)
Sec. 6-175. - Disability benefits; generally.
(a)
Any person entitled to disability benefits under the provisions of this act, as amended, other than as a result of an injury sustained in the line of duty, may receive such benefits after he has been in the active employment of the city for a period of five (5) years.
(b)
Whenever any officer or employee coming within the provisions of this act, as amended, shall become totally and permanently disabled as a result of an injury sustained in the line of duty during the first five (5) years of his employment, such officer or employee shall receive a pension amounting to five twenty-fifths ( 5/25 ) of a total service pension throughout the remainder of his life. If such officer or employee shall become totally and permanently disabled as the result of any injury sustained in the line of duty at any time after five (5) years service, he shall receive for the remainder of his life a pro rata pension to be calculated in the manner provided herein. Fractional parts of years shall be counted in determining the pro rata pension when the officer or employee has become totally and permanently disabled by result of injuries sustained in the line of duty at any time after five (5) years service.
(1957 Ga. Laws, page 3272, § 6; 1962 Ga. Laws, page 3138, § 2; 1966 Ga. Laws, page 3057, § 1; 1973 Ga. Laws, page 3768, § 2)
Editor's note— The provisions compiled in the above section were repealed by 1978 Ga. Laws, page 4546 but have been retained at the request of the city due to their applicability to certain individuals.
Sec. 6-176. - Refunds of employees dying.
Where any employee participating in the provisions of this act shall die, any and all refunds of amounts paid by him into said fund to which he would have been entitled as of the date of his death shall be paid to his estate.
(1941 Ga. Laws, page 468, § 2)
Editor's note— The provisions compiled in the above section were repealed by 1978 Ga. Laws, page 4546 but have been retained at the request of the city due to their applicability to certain individuals.
Sec. 6-177. - Right to designate recipient of refund in event of death; failure to make designation.
A member may designate someone, whether related to him or not, who would be entitled to a refund of the amount he has paid into the pension fund if such member should die before retirement, and in the event he does not name a person to whom a refund is to be made, such refund shall be made to his estate. In the event that a member dies after retirement, and either before or after receiving retirement payments, the named beneficiary, or the member's estate in the absence of a named beneficiary, shall receive a refund in an amount equal to the amount such member paid into said pension fund less the total amount received by such member or beneficiary in retirement benefits.
(1945 Ga. Laws, page 999, § 8; 1963 Ga. Laws, page 3061, § 4; 1977 Ga. Laws, page 1169)
Sec. 6-178. - Refunds of employees leaving city employ.
Any member participating in the provisions of this act who leaves the employ of said city before being eligible for retirement shall have refunded to him an amount equal to the amount paid into the said fund less one-half of one per centum (0.5%) per year to cover each year that the member had paid into the fund and received protection under this act. To illustrate, if at the end of the first year, the member has paid into said fund $10 and leaves the services of the city or withdraws from the pension fund, he shall be entitled to a refund of said $10 less one-half of one per centum (0.5%) or if at the end of 24 years, he has paid into said fund $240, he would be entitled to a refund of $240 less 12 per centum. If such member should die before being awarded a pension and should leave no beneficiary entitled to a pension as such under this act, the refund shall be made to his estate.
(1935 Ga. Laws, page 445, § 4; 1945 Ga. Laws, page 999, § 4; 1952 Ga. Laws, page 2765, § 4; 1953 Ga. Laws, Nov.-Dec. Sess., page 2776, § 2)
Editor's note— The provisions compiled in the above section were repealed by 1978 Ga. Laws, page 4546 but have been retained at the request of the city due to their applicability to certain individuals. To the extent the provisions of the above section are in conflict with corresponding provisions of section 6-179, the provisions hereof are superseded.
Sec. 6-179. - Refunds when leaving employment prior to retirement.
Any employee participating in the provisions of this act, as amended, who leaves the employ of such city prior to retirement shall have refunded to him an amount equal to the amount which he has paid into said fund.
(1957 Ga. Laws, page 3272, § 3)
Editor's note— The provisions compiled in the above section were repealed by 1978 Ga. Laws, page 4546 but have been retained at the request of the city due to their applicability to certain individuals.
Sec. 6-180. - Increase of pensions for over 25 years of service.
Pension payments due to former officers and employees who have retired as a matter of right and have been awarded pensions under the terms of this act, as amended, and all such officers and employees who may hereafter retire as a matter of right shall, in addition to the basic pension provided by said act, receive five dollars ($5.00) per month for each full year's active service in excess of 25 years. The record kept in the office of the comptroller or other chief finance officer of such city shall be conclusive to the time served.
(1957 Ga. Laws, page 3272, § 1)
Editor's note— The provisions compiled in the above section were repealed by 1978 Ga. Laws, page 4546 but have been retained at the request of the city due to their applicability to certain individuals. Section 7 of the 1957 act from which the above section is derived provided that it shall be liberally construed. Although this act did not expressly so provide, the provisions thereof superseded similar provisions of 1955 Ga. Laws, page 2057, § 5, and has been codified accordingly.
Sec. 6-181. - Funds for increased benefits provided by section 6-180.
The increased pension benefits provided by this amendment shall be paid by the board of trustees from funds available to them for the payment of pensions.
(1957 Ga. Laws, page 3272, § 10)
Editor's note— The provisions compiled in the above section were repealed by 1978 Ga. Laws, page 4546 but have been retained at the request of the city due to their applicability to certain individuals.
Sec. 6-182. - Recomputation of pensions for certain retired officers, employees.
(a)
Pension payments due all former officers and employees who have retired prior to April 1, 1955, and have been awarded a pension under the provisions of this act, who have reached 65 years of age, or who shall hereafter reach 65 years of age, shall be recomputed upon the following basis: The total pension benefits shall be a sum equal to one-half (½) of the average monthly salary of such former employee during the last three (3) years of his active service to such city, but shall not exceed the sum of $150 per month. The pension payments due to persons who were retired because of disability or for a period of service less than 25 years shall be increased in the same proportion. All such persons shall receive a minimum of four dollars ($4.00) per month for each full year of active service to such city subject to the limitations set out in this act as amended.
(b)
The board of trustees shall permit any officer or employee who is eligible for pension benefits or increased pension benefits under this act as amended and who is not now making the required contributions for such benefits, to become a member of such pension fund and to participate in the increased benefits provided by this act as amended provided such officer shall pay into the pension fund of such city an amount which would be equal to the amounts which he would have been required to pay had he exercised his privileges upon becoming eligible for such benefits. These payments shall be increased by four percent (4%) per annum from the dates such payments would have been due and may be paid over a period of 50 months. The board of trustees shall by rules provide for the exercise of the options herein authorized.
(1957 Ga. Laws, page 3272, § 2; 1958 Ga. Laws, page 3019, §§ 1, 2; 1962 Ga. Laws, page 3015, § 1)
Editor's note— The provisions compiled in the above section were repealed by 1978 Ga. Laws, page 4546 but have been retained at the request of the city due to their applicability to certain individuals. The 1962 act has been editorially treated as superseding prior provisions.
Sec. 6-183. - Benefits in lieu of existing benefits.
(a)
The pension benefits provided by this section and the several subsections shall be in lieu of like pension benefits provided by existing provisions of this act.
(b)
Any officer or employee coming under the terms of this act who is in the employment of the city prior to the effective date of this amendment may elect to come under the provisions of this amendment by making written application to the pension board. The applicant must agree in writing to accept the benefits and obligations of this amendment, in lieu of other pension benefits and obligations under this act, as amended. The election to accept the benefits of this amendment shall not prejudice the officers and employees of any such city to participate in the Federal O.A.S.I. program if they should be qualified for benefits under said program. And, notwithstanding any conditions which might originally have been attached to such election, the benefits of this act shall in no event be reduced as a consequence of participation in said program.
All such officers and employees in the employment of the city on the effective date of this act who do not in writing agree to accept the benefits and obligations of this amendment shall have their rights and obligations determined under the law as it existed prior to this amendment.
All regular officers or employees of the city, eligible for participation in this act, as amended, who shall be elected or employed after the effective date of this act, shall be required to come under the provisions of this act, as now amended, and shall have all rights and duties provided in the amended act. Temporary employees shall not be required to participate in this act, as amended.
(c)
All officers and employees, who shall elect to come under the terms of this amendment, must attain the age of 60 years and shall have served 25 years, before being eligible to retire and receive the benefits, as provided by this amendment; provided, however, that any officer or employee who has served 25 years and who has attained the age of 55 years may elect to retire on a reduced pension, said reduction to be one-twelfth of two percent (2%) per month for each month the officer or employee lacks in being 60 years of age; provided, further, that the provisions of this section as to age limit shall not apply to any person claiming a pension by reason of total and permanent disability.
(d)
When such officer or employee shall retire as a matter of right, he shall be paid thereafter a monthly pension equal to two percent (2%) of his monthly earnings up to and including $300 and one and one-half percent (1½%) of his monthly earnings in excess of $300 multiplied by his years of creditable service. Monthly earnings shall be the average of the highest three (3) years' salary during the term of employment.
(e)
In no event shall the total pension benefits payable under this amendment exceed 75 percent of the average monthly salary used in computing the pension benefits under the terms of this amendment. No department head who elects to come under the provisions of this act shall be entitled to receive any emeritus salary as provided by the governing authorities of any city coming within the provisions of this act. Provided, however, that whenever monthly earnings, as defined in this act as amended particularly by the 1962 Ga. Laws, page 3140, multiplied by years of creditable service at the time of retirement or death, shall entitle any officer or employee, coming under the provisions of this act as amended particularly by the 1962 Ga. Laws, page 3140, to a pension in excess of the maximum pension allowable hereunder, said officer or employee at the time of retirement, or beneficiary in case of death of said officer or employee prior to retirement, shall be refunded all contributions made by him on monthly earnings in excess of monthly earnings necessary to arrive at the maximum pension allowable.
(f)  (1) Any officer or employee who is a member of the pension fund shall be considered totally and permanently disabled by the board of trustees while the officer or employee is in a continuous state of incapacity due to illness or injury:
a.
During the first 12 months which the officer or employee is prevented from performing his/her regular, assigned or comparable duties; and
b.
Thereafter, if the condition continues to prevent the officer or employee from engaging in any occupation for which he/she is or becomes reasonably qualified by education, training or experience.
(2)
A member who is considered by the board of trustees to be totally and permanently disabled in accordance with subsection (f)(1)a. and b. on or after January 1, 1986, shall receive a monthly disability benefit which shall commence on the day following the officer's or employee's last date on the payroll and continue until the earlier of:
a.
Cessation of total and permanent disability;
b.
Attainment of age 60.
(3)
Such monthly disability benefit shall be equal to 50 percent of the officer's or employee's average monthly earnings during the highest three (3) consecutive years of service prior to the date of approval by the board of trustees or officer's or employee's accrued normal retirement benefit, whichever is greater.
(4)
Upon the cessation of disability benefits pursuant to section (f)(2)a. or b., and the officer's or employee's failure to return to city employment, the officer or employee would be entitled to a pension benefit as calculated in accordance with subsection b. or c. of 1962 Ga. Laws, page 3140, as applicable. Provided further, that the calculation of any such subsequent benefit shall include credit for all years and fractions thereof during the time disability pension benefits have been paid, but shall not include credit for any disability pension payments made. Provided further, that for the purposes of calculating any cost-of-living adjustments, the subsequent benefits shall be considered as a new pension with a new effective date.
(5)
Disability pension benefits shall be offset by worker's compensation payments so that the combination of payments shall not exceed 75 percent of the officer's or employee's salary at the time disability pension benefits are to commence or 60 percent of an officer's or employee's salary at the time of disability or death in the case of a beneficiary. However, this subsection shall prevent the restoration of disability pension benefits payable upon the reduction or termination of any such compensation benefits payable by the city under applicable worker's compensation laws.
(6)
a.
Pensions for beneficiaries designated under the terms of this act, as amended, shall be one-half of the amount the pensioner was receiving, at the time of his death, as a result of retirement as a matter of right or because of total and permanent disability; or one-half of the amount such officer or employee would have been entitled to receive had such person retired prior to death.
b.
The pension benefits for a primary beneficiary shall be continued to the secondary beneficiary, upon the death, or ineligibility for benefits, of the primary beneficiary. Provided, however, if such primary beneficiary was not receiving the maximum beneficiary payment provided for in this act because of any provision of this act reducing such amount, such maximum beneficiary amount shall be paid to the secondary beneficiary, notwithstanding any lesser amount previously paid to the primary beneficiary. Provided, further, that if said beneficiary, primary or secondary, receiving beneficiary benefits as widow or widower of the pensioner is more than five (5) years younger than the pensioner, there shall be deducted from such pension one-twelfth of two percent (2%) per month for each month such beneficiary is more than five (5) years younger than the pensioner.
c.
No spouse, designated as a beneficiary, shall be entitled to receive any of said service pension benefits unless such spouse shall have been legally married to such officer or employee of such city for a period of one (1) year prior to the death of such pensioner; provided the officer or employee has made payment for such benefits prior to retirement.
d.
In determining all pensions of officers or employees referred to above, fractional parts of years of service shall be counted and accumulated annual sick leave days credited to such officer or employee shall be counted as provided for in paragraph e.
e.
In determining creditable service, accumulated, unused sick leave days credited to such officer or employee shall be added as work days to the creditable service otherwise provided by this act, as amended. In determining average monthly earnings, such accumulated unused sick leave days shall be credited at the highest daily rate of regular salary or earnings during the highest three (3) consecutive years' salary or earnings; and all accumulated unused sick leave days shall be substituted for a like number of days at the lowest rate of regular salary or earnings during such highest three (3) consecutive years' salary or earnings during the term of employment.
f.
Any person entitled to disability benefits under the provisions of this act, as amended, may receive benefits after he/she has been in the active employment of the city for at least a period of five (5) years. Provided, however, said requirement shall not apply to an officer or employee disabled as a direct result of a traumatic event or events occurring during and as a result of the performance of an officer's or employee's regular or assigned duties and not the result of such officer's or employee's willful negligence.
(7)
Disability pensions; annual review. The retirement of a pension applicant by reason of permanent and total disability shall be subject to the following conditions:
a.
The board of trustees shall have the right to at least once a year require the pensioner to submit to a medical examination for the purpose of determining whether or not the pensioner has sufficiently recovered from his/her disability and is able to return to any occupation for which he/she is or becomes reasonably qualified by education, training or experience.
b.
If the board, after such examination, determines that the pensioner is not actually totally and permanently disabled and is able to return to any occupation for which he/she is or becomes reasonably qualified by education, training or experience then the payment of such disability pension shall cease. (Ord. No. 1985-94, § 3, 12-19-85)
(f1)
(a)
Any officer or employee subject to the terms of the 1962 City of Atlanta Pension Amendment (Ga. L. 1962, p. 3140 et seq.) who has not yet attained the age of 55 years, who has at least 25 years of service with the City of Atlanta, and who has been involuntarily separated due to or in association with a Reduction-in-Force (RIF), or in conjunction with the city's reorganization and downsizing of the city's workforce and budgetary needs, but not due to disciplinary action, between December 31, 2001 and December 31, 2003, may elect to take a monthly retirement benefit with an age adjustment equal to one-half (½) of the age adjustment provided for in said 1962 Pension Amendment for officers and employees who have attained the age of 55 years of age.
(b)
Any former officer or employee eligible to retire pursuant to this ordinance who has been involuntarily separated due to or in association with a RIF, but not due to disciplinary action, between December 31, 2001 and December 31, 2003 in conjunction with the city's reorganization and downsizing of the city's workforce and budgetary needs, and has already applied for and/or has been granted a service pension, may make written application to the Pension Office within the two year reemployment rights period to receive the benefit authorized in subsection (a) of this ordinance.
(c)
Any former officer or employee eligible to retire pursuant to this ordinance who has been involuntarily separated due to or in association with a RIF, but not due to disciplinary action, between December 31, 2001 and December 31, 2003 in conjunction with the city's reorganization and downsizing of the city's workforce and budgetary needs, and has applied for and received a refund of his/her pension contribution, may, within the two-year reemployment period, repay said contribution plus interest at a rate of seven (7) percent per annum from the date of withdrawal of his/her contribution, to the date that he/she makes written application to the Pension Office for the purpose of receiving the benefit authorized in subsection (a) of this ordinance.
(d)
This ordinance shall not apply to officers or employees who are rehired by the City of Atlanta or whose services are retained by the city pursuant to a contract; (ii) Nor shall this ordinance apply to officers or employees who reject or have rejected an offer of reemployment made by the city, to a position comparable to that from which the officer or employee was RIFFED or involuntary separated in conjunction with the city's reorganization and downsizing of the city's workforce, budgetary needs or other purposes. For officers or employees who were RIFFED or so involuntarily separated prior to the enactment of this ordinance, said offer of reemployment must be made within six (6) months of the enactment hereof. For officers and employees who are RIFFED or so involuntarily separated subsequent to enactment of this ordinance said offer of reemployment must be made within (6) months of the date of separation of any such officer or employee: For purposes of this subsection, a "comparable position" shall be defined as one for which the compensation is equal to or no less than 90% of the compensation earned by such officer or employee at the time of separation.
(g)
There shall be deducted from the total salary of any officer or employee electing to come under this amendment the sum of five percent (5%), in the event he does not provide for payment of a pension to his beneficiary, as authorized by this act, as amended, or the sum of six percent (6%), in the event he does provide for the continuance of the pension to his beneficiary. Like deductions shall be made from the salaries of future employees required to come under this amendment.
(h)
In addition to the payments required to be made in subparagraph (g) above, any officer or employee who may become a participant under this amendment shall be entitled to all benefits and receive credit for all the years of his creditable service, provided he shall pay into the fund the sum of five percent (5%) of his total salary from the time his salary exceeded $300 per month, if he does not provide for the payment of a pension to a beneficiary; and the sum of six percent (6%) of his total salary from the time his salary exceeded $300 per month, if he does provide for the payment of a pension to a beneficiary. Payments previously made to the pension fund not exceeding the amount due the fund shall be deducted from the total amount due in arriving at the total sum of five percent (5%) or six percent (6%).
Said total amount due may be paid at the time the officer or employee elects to come under the terms of this amendment or in 60 monthly installments from the date of his participation under this amendment. Provided, however, that the board of trustees of the fund, as created under this act, as amended, may at their discretion allow additional time for such payments to be made.
Any officer or employee who does not elect to participate under this amendment within six (6) months of the effective date of this amendment, but who later elects to participate, shall be required to pay interest at the rate of four percent (4%) per annum from the effective date of this amendment to the date he elects to participate. In the event the officer or employee should retire or die before said payments into the fund are completed, the secretary of the retirement fund is authorized to deduct the monthly payments from retirement or beneficiary benefits until the obligation is discharged.
(i)
This section and the several subsections shall be effective the first day of the month following the passage and approval of this act, and the payments required by subsection (g) above, as to those then employed and electing to come under this amendment, shall begin with that date. As to those subsequently coming into the service of the city or subsequently electing to participate under the terms of this amendment, said payments shall begin with the employment or date of such election.
(j)
In addition to the fund derived from deductions from salaries and wages, as required by subsection (g) of this amendment, it shall be the duty of the governing authorities and the board of education of such cities to appropriate and pay into the pension fund an amount which shall equal the total amount of deductions from the salaries and wages paid to officers and employees of said governing authorities and said boards of education, including the amounts paid into said fund by said officers and employees for prior creditable service, as required by subparagraph (h). Provided, however, such governing authorities and boards of education of such cities may delay the matching of additional contributions caused by the enactment of this amendment to the January 1st next following the effective date of this amendment; and provided, further, that said governing authorities and board of education of such cities may match the payments for prior creditable service, as provided for in subparagraph (h) in annual installments over a period not to exceed 20 years from the January 1 next following the effective date of this amendment. Should said pension fund at any time be insufficient to meet and pay the pensions due to such officers and employees, such governing authorities and boards of education shall appropriate from current funds amounts sufficient to make up the deficiency as it relates to their respective officers and employees.
(k)
When any person covered by the provisions of this act shall die as a result of injuries incurred in the line of duty, the compensation to which he would have been entitled shall be continued for one (1) year and paid to his widow, or minor children (natural or legally adopted), if no widow. Any compensation received by the member due to said injury shall be deducted from the one-year's compensation herein provided for. At the expiration of the one-year period referred to above, the pension benefits for widow shall be computed by the same formula as set forth in subsection (f) above. The pension benefits for widow provided by this amendment shall be continued to the minor child or children (natural or legally adopted) upon the death of the widow until the youngest child shall have become 18 years of age.
(1962 Ga. Laws, page 3140, § 1; 1963 Ga. Laws, page 2903, § 1; 1964 Ga. Laws, page 3050, § 1; 1966 Ga. Laws, page 3106, § 1; 1972 Ga. Laws, page 3374, § 1; 1972 Ga. Laws, page 3803, §§ 3, 4; 1973 Ga. Laws, page 2841, §§ 1, 2; Ord. No. 1985-94, § 4, 12-19-85; Ord. No. 2003-85, § 1, 7-12-03)
Editor's note— Except as stated in this note, the provisions compiled in the above section were repealed by 1978 Ga. Laws, page 4546 but have been retained at the request of the city due to their applicability to certain individuals. The following provisions were not repealed by such act:
(1)
Subsection (j), based on 1962 Ga. Laws, page 3140, § 1; and
(2)
Subsections (b) and (e), based on 1972 Ga. Laws, page 3803, §§ 3, 4.
The language of the 1972 act, while not specifically repealed by 1978 Ga. Laws, page 4546, was effectively superseded by that act.
The ordinances listed in the left-hand column below are found in the state session laws at the location listed opposite them in the right-hand column below:
EXPAND
Georgia Laws
Ord. No. Year Page
1985-94 — —
  Sec. 6-184. - Deferred pension benefits.
(a)
When any person coming within the provisions of this act, as amended, shall have completed 20 years of active service with such city and not yet have reached the age of 65 years, then such person shall have the right to terminate his employment with such city upon completion of said 20 years, or at any time thereafter; elect not to withdraw or have paid to such person the amount which such person would have paid into the pension fund prior to terminating such employment; and upon subsequently attaining 65 years of age commence to receive at said time the benefits to which such person would have been entitled had such person otherwise retired as a matter of right in accordance with the applicable provisions of this act, as amended.
(b)
Should such person have provided for the payment of a pension to the beneficiary of such person, as authorized by said act, as amended, by making the required payments or contributions to the pension fund, then after terminating the employment with such city and upon the death of such person, either before or after attaining 65 years of age, such person's beneficiary designated under the terms of this act, as amended, shall be entitled to all of the benefits provided for such beneficiary as set forth in the relevant and applicable sections of this act, as amended.
(c)
Should such person, after having left the employment with such city after 20 years of active service, become reemployed by such city, then such person at such time shall have the right to continue under the provisions of the amendments to said act which such person was under prior to the termination of such employment, or may elect to come under any amendments to said act enacted subsequently to the termination of such person's employment and as may exist and be in effect at the time of said reemployment, upon there being made such payments or contributions to the pension fund, through deductions from salary or otherwise, as might be required by said act, as amended.
(1971 Ga. Laws, page 2939, § 1)
Editor's note— The provisions compiled in the above section were repealed by 1978 Ga. Laws, page 4546 but have been retained at the request of the city due to their applicability to certain individuals.
Sec. 6-185. - Deduction from benefits for unrepaid advanced sick leave.
(a)
In the event that an officer or employee who has been granted advanced sick leave should retire or die prior to having repaid any and all amounts due such city for the advanced sick leave, an appropriate amount, as determined by the board of trustees, may be deducted from the monthly retirement or beneficiary benefits, or in lieu thereof, such lump sum amounts as the board, in its discretion, deems appropriate until the obligation is discharged.
(b)
The provisions of this act shall apply only to officers or employees who become members of the pension fund on or after the effective date of this act.
(1982 Ga. Laws, page 3887, §§ 1, 4)
Sec. 6-186. - Statement of accumulated benefits.
An accurate statement, including the amount the employee has accumulated in the pension fund for the current year and the total amount the employee has accumulated in the pension fund from date of employment to the present date, shall be sent to each employee within 60 days after the end of each fiscal year.
(1975 Ga. Laws, page 3175, § 1)
Secs. 6-187—6-220. - Reserved.
