Chapter 66 - PLANNING[1]
Footnotes:
--- (1) ---
Cross reference— Any zoning ordinance saved from repeal, § 1-11(10); administration, ch. 2; buildings and building regulations, ch. 18; environment, ch. 38; floods, ch. 46; historical preservation, ch. 54; streets, sidewalks and other public places, ch. 74; utilities, ch. 86; zoning, app. A; zoning board of appeals, app. A, § 12.
State Law reference— Coordinated and comprehensive planning by counties and municipalities, O.C.G.A. § 36-70-1 et seq.; regional development centers, O.C.G.A. § 50-8-30 et seq.

ARTICLE I. - IN GENERAL

Secs. 66-1—66-30. - Reserved.
ARTICLE II. - GREATER TURNER PLANNING ADVISORY COMMISSION[2]

Footnotes:
--- (2) ---
Cross reference— Administration, ch. 2.

Sec. 66-31. - Purpose; creation.
In order to guide and accomplish a coordinated and harmonious development of the City of Ashburn and Turner County which will, in accordance with existing and future needs found in adopted and amended comprehensive plans, best promote public health, safety, morals, order, convenience, prosperity and the general welfare, as well as efficiency and economy in the process of development, the Greater Turner Planning Advisory Commission is created and established; and the planning advisory commission shall be organized and empowered as specified in this article.
(Ord. No. 97-01, 5-1-1997)
Sec. 66-32. - Membership.
(a)
The planning advisory commission shall consist of seven members. The Board of Commissioners of Turner County shall select three members; the City Council of the City of Ashburn shall select two members; the City Council of the City of Sycamore shall select one member; the City Council of the City of Rebecca shall select one member. The appointed member shall serve for four-year terms. Provided however, the terms of members selected by the Board of Commissioners of Turner County and the City Council of the City of Ashburn shall be staggered terms and the initial appointment to the planning advisory commission upon the passage of the ordinance from which this section is derived by said county and cities shall be for such initial periods of time so as to provide for staggered four-year terms.
(b)
Resignations from the planning advisory commission must be submitted in writing to the secretary of the planning advisory commission and to the unit of government that appointed each member. Each unit of government shall have the authority to remove any member appointed to the planning advisory commission by that particular member of government for cause at any time upon giving such member ten days written notice and following a vote of the governmental unit to remove such member from a public meeting including but not limited to:
(1)
Failure to attend three consecutive regular voting meetings of the planning advisory commission;
(2)
Failure to attend three or more meetings of the planning advisory commission in a calendar year;
(3)
Failure to maintain permanent residence within the jurisdiction of the unit of the government that adopted such member; or
(4)
Violation of planning advisory commission by-laws, rules or procedures.
Vacancies in the membership caused by resignation or removal shall be filled by the unit of government for the remainder of the unexpired term created by the vacancy.
(c)
All members shall serve without compensation but may be reimbursed for actual expenses incurred in connection with their official duties.
(Ord. No. 97-01, § 1, 5-1-1997; Ord. No. 2021-6, § 1, 7-1-2021)
Sec. 66-33. - Organization, rules, staff, finances.
The planning advisory commission shall elect its chairman and vice-chairman from among its members. The term of the chairman and vice-chairman shall be one year with eligibility for reelection. The planning advisory commission shall appoint a secretary, who may be an officer or employee of a member city or the county. The planning advisory commission shall adopt its own rules of procedure and determine its time of meeting. All meetings of the planning advisory commission shall be open to the public, and all records of the planning advisory commission shall be a public record. The planning advisory commission may appoint such employees and staff as it may deem necessary for its work and may contract with public or private consultants for such services as it may require. The expenditures of the planning advisory commission, exclusive of gifts, shall be within the amounts appropriated for the purposes by the governing authorities of the cities and the county.
(Ord. No. 97-01, § 2, 5-1-1997)
Sec. 66-34. - Powers and duties.
From and after the time when the planning advisory commission shall have been organized and selected its officers, and shall have adopted its rules of procedure, the planning advisory commission shall function only in an advisory capacity to each of the respective governing authorities and perform such additional functions and services for and on behalf of each governmental entity as shall be authorized or directed from time to time by the governing authority. The planning advisory commission's duties and responsibilities shall include but are not limited to the following:
(1)
To research, review, conduct hearings and make recommendations to the appropriate board and councils on updates and amendment to the 2015 Greater Turner Comprehensive Plan.
(2)
To work with various public and private organizations and agencies engaged in or interested in planning and development activities so as to provide leadership in identifying and implementing city/county goals and policies for planning and development.
(3)
To advise member units of government on environmental, public health, safety and general welfare matters, which will include advisory recommendations of land development codes and ordinances.
(Ord. No. 97-01, § 3, 5-1-1997)
