ARTICLE V. - ABANDONMENT, CRUELTY, AND NEGLECT[5]

Footnotes:
--- (5) ---
State Law reference— Local authority to adopt ordinances for animal protection, O.C.G.A. § 4-11-18.

Sec. 14-201. - Abandonment of animals.
No person shall release an animal on any public or private property with the intention of abandoning the animal.
(Ord. No. 01-04, § 4.18, 4-5-2001)
Editor's note— Formerly, § 14-116.
Sec. 14-202. - Cruelty and neglect to animals prohibited.
(a)
No animal in the incorporated areas of the city shall be subject to cruelty and/or neglect as outlined in this section.
(b)
It shall be unlawful for any person to perform a cruel act on any animal; nor shall any person harm, maim, or kill any domestic animal, or attempt to do so, except that a person may:
(1)
Defend his person or property, or the person or property of another, from injury or damage being caused by an animal; or
(2)
Kill any animal causing injury or damage to any livestock or poultry.
(c)
The method used for killing the animal in the situations outlined in subsection (b) of this section shall be designed to be as humane as is possible under the circumstances. A person who humanely kills an animal under the circumstances indicated in subsection (b) of this section shall incur no liability for such death.
(d)
This section shall not be construed to limit in any way the authority or duty of any law enforcement officer or animal control officer.
(e)
It shall be the duty of the animal owner, caretaker, or possessor to provide adequate shelter, food, water, and sanitary conditions at all times; and to provide necessary medicare care including, but not limited to, the required annual rabies inoculation. Failure to comply with this section constitutes neglect and is a violation of this chapter.
(f)
When harnessed all animals shall be harnessed in such a manner that will not cause injury to the animal, and the animal shall be given plenty of room on a harness to exercise.
(g)
Any violation of this section shall be enforced as outlined in article II of this chapter.
(Ord. No. 01-04, § 4.70, 4-5-2001)
Editor's note— Formerly, § 14-117.
Sec. 14-203. - Confiscation of suspected abused animals.
If an animal control officer and/or any law enforcement officer has reasonable cause to believe that any animal is subject to abuse as defined in this chapter, he shall confiscate and impound the animal pending the conclusion of an investigation. The investigation shall be completed by the end of the seventh business day, at which time a finding shall be issued by the animal control officer. If a finding is made that the animal is being abused, cruelty to animal charges shall be filed against the owner and the animal will become the property of the city. If a determination is reached that the animal is not being abused, the animal will be returned to its owner, and follow-up investigations may be conducted by the animal control officer at the discretion of the animal control officer. The responsibility for costs related to the confiscation and impoundment during the investigation will rest with the owner, regardless of the determination reached.
(Ord. No. 01-04, § 4.71, 4-5-2001)
Editor's note— Formerly, § 14-118.
Secs. 14-204—14-230. - Reserved.
