Chapter 14 - OFFENSES AND MISCELLANEOUS PROVISIONS[1]
Footnotes:
--- (1) ---
State Law reference— Criminal Code of Georgia, O.C.G.A. § 16-1-1 et seq.; limitation on home rule powers of municipal corporations with respect to duplication of state criminal offenses, O.C.G.A. § 36-35-6(a)(2).

ARTICLE I. - IN GENERAL

Secs. 14-1—14-18. - Reserved.
ARTICLE II. - DISCHARGE OF FIREARMS

Sec. 14-19. - Definitions.
The following words, terms and phrases, when used in this article, shall have the meanings ascribed to them in this section, except where the context clearly indicates a different meaning:
Firearm includes any handgun, rifle, shotgun or other weapon which will, or can, be converted to expel a projectile by the action of an explosive or electrical charge.
(Code 2005, § 34-31; Ord. No. 00-05-02, § II, 5-2-2000)
Sec. 14-20. - Purpose.
The purpose of this article is to ensure that the improper discharge of firearms does not:
(1)
Create safety hazards by subjecting members of the public to the risk of injury from the negligent discharge of firearms;
(2)
Subject the property of citizens to damage from the negligent discharge of firearms.
(Code 2005, § 34-32; Ord. No. 00-05-02, § III, 5-2-2000)
Sec. 14-21. - Prohibited acts.
Except as may be specifically permitted in this article, it shall be unlawful for any person to discharge a firearm within the city limits under the following conditions:
(1)
While under the influence of alcohol or any drug to the extent that it is unsafe for the person to discharge such firearm, except in the defense of life;
(2)
In such manner so as to endanger the bodily safety of another person by consciously disregarding a substantial and justifiable risk that the discharge of a firearm will cause harm to, or endanger the safety of, another person and the discharge of such firearm constitutes a gross deviation from the standard of care which a reasonable person would exercise in the same situation or under similar conditions;
(3)
Directly at the residence or abode of another, or directly at the livestock, domesticated animals or pets of another;
(4)
Directly at a nondomesticated or game animal unless such animal is on the property of the individual discharging the firearm or the individual discharging the firearm has the permission of the owner of the property upon which such animal has trespassed.
(Code 2005, § 34-33; Ord. No. 00-05-02, § IV, 5-2-2000)
Sec. 14-22. - Exceptions.
This article shall not apply to:
(1)
Competitors participating in organized sport shooting events;
(2)
Law enforcement officers, peace officers of state or federal law enforcement agencies, judges, magistrates, employees of the department of corrections or of the state board of pardons and paroles in the performance of their official duties;
(3)
Solicitors in general;
(4)
District attorneys;
(5)
Persons who use force in defense of others as provided by O.C.G.A. § 16-3-21; or
(6)
Persons who fire or discharge a firearm in the defense of person.
(Code 2005, § 34-34; Ord. No. 00-05-02, § V, 5-2-2000)
Sec. 14-23. - Violations; fines.
Any person violating any provision of this article shall be guilty of a misdemeanor and shall be punished by the following fines:
(1)
First offense, $100.00.
(2)
Second offense, $250.00.
(3)
Subsequent offenses, $500.00.
(Code 2005, § 34-35; Ord. No. 00-05-02, § VII, 5-2-2000)
Secs. 14-24—14-49. - Reserved.
ARTICLE III. - FIREWORKS[2]

Footnotes:
--- (2) ---
State Law reference— Fireworks, O.C.G.A. § 25-10-1 et seq.

Sec. 14-50. - Title.
The sections of this article shall be known and designated as the Fireworks Regulations Ordinance.
(Ord. of 8-4-2015, § 1(1))
Sec. 14-51. - Definitions.
(a)
The following words, terms and phrases, when used in this article, shall have the meanings ascribed to them in this section, except where the context clearly indicates a different meaning:
Consumer fireworks means any small fireworks devices containing restricted amounts of pyrotechnic composition, designed primarily to produce visible or audible effects by combustion, that comply with the construction, chemical composition, and labeling regulations of the United States Consumer Product Safety Commission as provided for in parts 1500 and 1507 of title 16 of the Code of Federal Regulations, the United States Department of Transportation as provided for in part 172 of title 49 of the Code of Federal Regulations, and the American Pyrotechnics Association as provided for in the 2001 American Pyrotechnics Association Standard 87-1, and additionally shall mean Roman candles.
Consumer fireworks retail sales facility shall have the same meaning as provided for by NFPA 1124.
Consumer fireworks retail sales stand shall have the same meaning as provided for by NFPA 1124.
Distributor means any person, firm, corporation, association, or partnership which sells consumer fireworks.
Fireworks means any combustible or explosive composition or any substance or combination of substances or article prepared for the purpose of producing a visible or audible effect by combustion, explosion, deflagration, or detonation, including blank cartridges, torpedos, skyrockets, bombs, sparklers, and other combustibles and explosives of like construction, as well as articles containing any explosive or flammable compound and tablets and other devices containing an explosive substance.
NFPA 1124 means the National Fire Protection Association Standard 1124, Code for the Manufacture, Transportation, Storage, and Retail Sales of Fireworks and Pyrotechnic Articles, 2006 edition.
Nonprofit group means any entity exempt from taxation under section 501(c)(3) of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, any entity incorporated under the Georgia Nonprofit Corporation Code (O.C.G.A. § 14-3-101 et seq.), or a sponsored organization of a public or private elementary or secondary school in this state.
Proximate audience means an audience closer to pyrotechnic devices than permitted by the National Fire Protection Association Standard 1123, Code for Fireworks Display, as adopted by the state safety fire commissioner.
Pyrotechnics means fireworks.
Retail chain means a person, firm, corporation, association, or partnership with more than one store, where all such stores are collectively known to the public by the same name or share central management.
Store shall have the same meaning as provided for by NFPA 1124; provided, however, that the term "store" shall only include such buildings with at least 4,000 square feet of retail display space and wherefrom:
(1)
No more than 25 percent of such retail display space is used for consumer fireworks and items or products as provided for under O.C.G.A. § 25-10-1(b)(2);
(2)
Other items or products which are not consumer fireworks or items or products are provided for under O.C.G.A. § 25-10-1(b)(2) are sold;
and provided, further, that such term means a person with more than one mercantile location, where all such mercantile locations are collectively known to the public by the same name or share central management.
(b)
As used in this article, the terms "consumer fireworks" or "fireworks" shall not include:
(1)
Model rockets and model rocket engines designed, sold, and used for the purpose of propelling recoverable aero models, toy pistol paper caps in which the explosive content averages 0.25 grains or less of explosive mixture per paper cap or toy pistols, toy cannons, toy canes, toy guns, or other devices using such paper caps; nor shall the term "consumer fireworks" or "fireworks" include ammunition consumed by weapons used for sporting and hunting purposes; and
(2)
Wire or wood sparklers of 100 grams or less of mixture per item; other sparkling items which are nonexplosive and nonaerial and contain 75 grams or less of chemical compound per tube or a total of 500 grams or less for multiple tubes, snake and glow worms; smoke devices; or trick noise makers which include paper streamers, party poppers, string poppers, snappers, and drop pops each consisting of 0.25 grams or less of explosive mixture.
(Ord. of 8-4-2015, § 1(2))
State Law reference— Definitions, O.C.G.A. § 25-10-1.
Sec. 14-52. - Limited prohibition as to consumer fireworks or fireworks.
It shall be unlawful for any person, firm, corporation, association, or partnership to offer for sale at retail or wholesale, to use or explode or cause to be exploded, or to possess, manufacture, transport, or store any consumer fireworks or fireworks, within the city except as expressly authorized by the general state law.
(Ord. of 8-4-2015, § 1(3))
Sec. 14-53. - Prohibition of consumer fireworks or fireworks except pursuant to a special use permit.
(a)
It shall be unlawful for any person, firm, corporation, association, or partnership to offer for sale at retail or wholesale, to use or explode or cause to be exploded, or to possess, manufacture, transport, or store any consumer fireworks or fireworks, on, upon, or above any city property, including, but not limited to, the public parks of the city, except as allowed by a special use permit issued by the city.
(b)
It shall be unlawful for any person, firm, corporation, association, or partnership to use or explode or cause to be exploded any consumer fireworks on any day at a time not allowed by the general state law within the city, unless such person, firm, corporation, association, or partnership is issued a special use permit by the city council for the use or explosion of consumer fireworks in a location within the city at a time not allowed for under the general state law. The applicant for a special use permit shall use the application forms of the city for said permit, and shall designate the time or times and location that such person, firm, corporation, association, or partnership desires to use or explode or cause to be exploded such consumer fireworks or fireworks. The city council shall consider the application, and considering reasonable factors such as the time requested, the proposed location of the fireworks display, prior experience concerning the applicant's use of fireworks, the potential for fires or wildfires, and other reasonable factors, and in its discretion based upon these factors grant or deny the issuance of a special use permit. If the special use permit is granted by the city council, then the applicant shall pay a special use permit fee of $100.00 to the city. If the application is denied, then the applicant shall have a right of appeal to the county superior court pursuant to the procedures for the grant of a writ of certiorari by said court. The city, the city council, and the agents of the city shall have no liability as to any decision made pursuant to this section.
(Ord. of 8-4-2015, § 1(4))
Sec. 14-54. - Occupational tax for a licensed distributor operating a permanent consumer fireworks retail sales facility or store in the city.
A licensed distributor operating a permanent consumer fireworks retail sales facility or store shall be entitled to receive a city occupational tax license for said facility or store upon making application for said license from the city pursuant to the city's procedure, and providing a copy of the license issued to the distributor and as to said permanent facility or store by the state safety fire commissioner or the judge of the county probate court and as provided by general law. The occupational tax license fee for said licensed distributor shall be assessed for said licensed distributor upon the same basis as other businesses, professions, or occupations under the city's occupational tax ordinance. Any termination, revocation, or suspension of the license issued by the state safety fire commissioner shall act to automatically in similar fashion terminate, revoke, or suspend the city occupational tax license issued to said licensed distributor. If the licensed distributor selling consumer fireworks from a permanent consumer fireworks retails sales facility or store is a part of a retail chain as defined herein, then any city occupational tax license issued for said retail chain store shall be sufficient to authorize the sale or the offer for sale at retail or wholesale any consumer fireworks without having said retail chain store acquiring an additional occupational tax license from the city as to the sale of consumer fireworks or fireworks.
(Ord. of 8-4-2015, § 1(5))
Sec. 14-55. - License for a temporary consumer fireworks retail sales stand.
The city is hereby authorized to issue a temporary license (and which shall also serve as a temporary occupational tax license) for a temporary consumer fireworks retail sales stand or stands, provided that the city fire department, or the fire department that is legally authorized to operate within the city, determines that the temporary consumer fireworks retail sales stand meets the requirements of the general state law, including, but not limited to, O.C.G.A. § 25-10-5.1(a)(1) and (c)(1). In accordance with O.C.G.A. § 25-10-5.1(c)(2), a temporary license shall also be granted in the event that the judge of the county probate court determines that such a temporary license should be issued due to an appeal of the decision by the applicable fire department. The application for the temporary consumer fireworks retail sales stand shall be submitted to the applicable fire department, and with a copy provided to the administrative office of the city. Any temporary license issued shall identify the temporary consumer fireworks retail sales stand applicable to such license, and the temporary license shall expire 90 days after the issuance of such license. The license fee for a distributor selling consumer fireworks from a temporary consumer fireworks retail sales stand shall be $500.00 per location, payable to the governing authority of the city. All temporary licenses for a temporary consumer fireworks retail sales stand shall only be issued to licensed distributors where the sales of consumer fireworks from such temporary consumer fireworks retail sales stands shall accrue to the benefit of a nonprofit group as agreed between the licensed distributor and the participating nonprofit group. A nonprofit group benefitting from the sale of consumer fireworks pursuant to this provision shall directly participate in operating the temporary consumer fireworks retail sales stand.
(Ord. of 8-4-2015, § 1(6))
Sec. 14-56. - Enforcement.
(a)
The city fire department, or any applicable fire department that operates within the city, is authorized to refer cases for enforcement as to violations of O.C.G.A. § 25-10-5.1(c) to the state fire marshal.
(b)
All fireworks manufactured, offered for sale, exposed for sale, or stored in violation of this article or state law, or both, are declared to be contraband may be seized, taken, and removed, or caused to be removed and resold with the proceeds of the sale to be used for public safety purposes, or destroyed at the expense of the owner thereof, or both, by any authorized law enforcement officer operating within the city.
(Ord. of 8-4-2015, § 1(7))
Sec. 14-57. - Certain devices unlawful that require a flame for propulsion or lighting.
It shall be unlawful for any person, firm, corporation, association, or partnership to release or cause to be released any balloon, bag, parachute, or other similar device which requires fire underneath for propulsion or to release or cause to be released any floating water lantern or wish lantern which uses a flame to create a lighting effect in any public waters within the city.
(Ord. of 8-4-2015, § 1(8))
