THE CODE OF THE CITY OF YOUNG HARRIS, GEORGIA
____________
Published in 2019 by Order of the City Council
____________
Adopted January 7, 2020
____________
CITY OFFICIALS
____________
Andrea Gibby
Mayor
____________
Terry Ingram
Matthew Miller
Donald Keys
Dr. John Kelley
Steve Clark
City Council
____________
Marvin J. Harkins
City Attorney
____________
Shirley Jarrard
City Clerk
PREFACE
This Code constitutes a recodification of the general and permanent ordinances of the City of Young Harris, Georgia.
Source materials used in the preparation of the Code were the 2005 Code, as current through August 3, 2004, and ordinances subsequently adopted by the governing body. The source of each section is included in the history note appearing in parentheses at the end thereof. The absence of such a note indicates that the section is new and was adopted for the first time with the adoption of the Code. By use of the comparative tables appearing in the back of this Code, the reader can locate any section of the 2005 Code, and any subsequent ordinance included herein.
The chapters of the Code have been conveniently arranged in alphabetical order, and the various sections within each chapter have been catchlined to facilitate usage. Notes which tie related sections of the Code together and which refer to relevant state law have been included. A table listing the state law citations and setting forth their location within the Code is included at the back of this Code.
Chapter and Section Numbering System
The chapter and section numbering system used in this Code is the same system used in many state and local government codes. Each section number consists of two parts separated by a dash. The figure before the dash refers to the chapter number, and the figure after the dash refers to the position of the section within the chapter. Thus, the second section of chapter 1 is numbered 1-2, and the first section of chapter 6 is 6-1. Under this system, each section is identified with its chapter, and at the same time new sections can be inserted in their proper place by using the decimal system for amendments. For example, if new material consisting of one section that would logically come between sections 6-1 and 6-2 is desired to be added, such new section would be numbered 6-1.5. New articles and new divisions may be included in the same way or, in the case of articles, may be placed at the end of the chapter embracing the subject, and, in the case of divisions, may be placed at the end of the article embracing the subject. The next successive number shall be assigned to the new article or division. New chapters may be included by using one of the reserved chapter numbers. Care should be taken that the alphabetical arrangement of chapters is maintained when including new chapters.
Page Numbering System
The page numbering system used in this Code is a prefix system. The letters to the left of the colon are an abbreviation which represents a certain portion of the volume. The number to the right of the colon represents the number of the page in that portion. In the case of a chapter of the Code, the number to the left of the colon indicates the number of the chapter. In the case of an appendix to the Code, the letter immediately to the left of the colon indicates the letter of the appendix. The following are typical parts of codes of ordinances, which may or may not appear in this Code at this time, and their corresponding prefixes:
EXPAND
CHARTER CHT:1
CHARTER COMPARATIVE TABLE CHTCT:1
CODE CD1:1
CODE APPENDIX CDA:1
CODE COMPARATIVE TABLES CCT:1
STATE LAW REFERENCE TABLE SLT:1
CHARTER INDEX CHTi:1
CODE INDEX CDi:1
  Indexes
The indexes have been prepared with the greatest of care. Each particular item has been placed under several headings, some of which are couched in lay phraseology, others in legal terminology, and still others in language generally used by local government officials and employees. There are numerous cross references within the indexes themselves which stand as guideposts to direct the user to the particular item in which the user is interested.
Looseleaf Supplements
A special feature of this publication is the looseleaf system of binding and supplemental servicing of the publication. With this system, the publication will be kept up to date. Subsequent amendatory legislation will be properly edited, and the affected page or pages will be reprinted. These new pages will be distributed to holders of copies of the publication, with instructions for the manner of inserting the new pages and deleting the obsolete pages.
Keeping this publication up to date at all times will depend largely upon the holder of the publication. As revised pages are received, it will then become the responsibility of the holder to have the amendments inserted according to the attached instructions. It is strongly recommended by the publisher that all such amendments be inserted immediately upon receipt to avoid misplacing them and, in addition, that all deleted pages be saved and filed for historical reference purposes.
Acknowledgments
This publication was under the direct supervision of Roger D. Merriam, Senior Code Attorney, and Andrea Palmieri, Editor, of the Municipal Code Corporation, Tallahassee, Florida. Credit is gratefully given to the other members of the publisher's staff for their sincere interest and able assistance throughout the project.
The publisher is most grateful to Mr. Marvin J. Harkins, City Attorney, for his cooperation and assistance during the progress of the work on this publication. It is hoped that his efforts and those of the publisher have resulted in a Code which will make the active law of the city readily accessible to all citizens and which will be a valuable tool in the day-to-day administration of the city's affairs.
Copyright
All editorial enhancements of this Code are copyrighted by Municipal Code Corporation and the City of Young Harris, Georgia. Editorial enhancements include, but are not limited to: organization; table of contents; section catchlines; prechapter section analyses; editor's notes; cross references; state law references; numbering system; code comparative table; state law reference table; and index. Such material may not be used or reproduced for commercial purposes without the express written consent of Municipal Code Corporation and the City of Young Harris, Georgia.
© Copyrighted material.
Municipal Code Corporation and the City of Young Harris, Georgia. 2019.
ADOPTING ORDINANCE
ORDINANCE NO. 2020-ORD-1
AN ORDINANCE TO ADOPT AND ENACT A NEW CODE FOR THE CITY OF YOUNG HARRIS, GEORGIA; TO PROVIDE FOR THE REPEAL OF CERTAIN ORDINANCES NOT INCLUDED THEREIN; TO PROVIDE A PENALTY FOR THE VIOLATION THEREOF; TO PROVIDE FOR THE MANNER OF AMENDING SUCH CODE; TO REPEAL CONFLICTING PROVISIONS; TO PROVIDE FOR AN EFFECTIVE DATE; AND FOR OTHER PURPOSES
WHEREAS, O.C.G.A. § 36-35-3(a) vests to the governing authority of each municipal corporation the legislative power to adopt clearly reasonable ordinances, resolutions, or regulations relating to its property, affairs, and local government;
WHEREAS, O.C.G.A. § 36-80-19 requires that cities and counties provide for the general codification of all the ordinances and resolutions of that city or county having the force and effect of law, with any amendments to that codification to be printed and made promptly available to the public, and such codification made available by posting it on the internet;
WHEREAS, Section 2.18 of the Charter of the City of Young Harris requires that the City Council provide for the preparation of a general codification of all the ordinances of the City;
WHEREAS, the City of Young Harris had previously approved and adopted a codification of the Code of Young Harris in 2005 by Municipal Code Corporation ("Municode");
WHEREAS, since 2005, none of the subsequent amendments to the Code of Young Harris have been incorporated into the Municode codification, with the result that it is difficult for the public and the city's officials to know exactly what ordinances are currently in effect, or have been amended and/or repealed;
WHEREAS, as a result, on February 5, 2019, the City Council approved a contract with Municode for the re-codification of the current ordinances of the City of Young Harris having the force and effect of law; and
WHEREAS, Municode has completed a re-codification of the ordinances of the City of Young Harris which has been presented for consideration for approval by the City Council of the City of Young Harris.
NOW, THEREFORE, THE CITY COUNCIL OF THE CITY OF YOUNG HARRIS HEREBY ORDAINS:
1.
The Code entitled "The Code of the City of Young Harris, Georgia," published in 2019 by Municipal Code Corporation, consisting of chapters 1 through 26, each inclusive, is adopted.
2.
BE IT FURTHER ORDAINED that all ordinances of a general and permanent nature enacted on or before June 4, 2019, and not included in the Code or recognized and continued in force by reference therein, are repealed. The effect of this repealer shall specifically not be applicable to the Master Fee Schedule last amended on August 6, 2019, which shall continue in full force and effect, as now or hereinafter amended.
3.
BE IT FURTHER ORDAINED that the repeal provided for in section 2 hereof shall not be construed to revive any ordinance or part thereof that has been repealed by a subsequent ordinance that is repealed by this ordinance.
4.
BE IT FURTHER ORDAINED that unless another penalty is expressly provided, every person convicted of a violation of any provision of the Code or any ordinance, rule or regulation adopted or issued in pursuance thereof shall be punished by a fine not exceeding $1,000.00, imprisonment for a term not exceeding 180 days, alternative sentencing as provided by law, or any combination thereof. Except as otherwise provided: (i) with respect to violations that are continuous with respect to time, each day that the violation continues is a separate offense; and as to other violations, each act is a separate offense. The penalty provided by this section, unless another penalty is expressly provided, shall apply to the amendment of any Code section, whether or not such penalty is reenacted in the amendatory ordinance. In addition to the penalty prescribed above, the city may pursue other remedies such as abatement of nuisances, injunctive relief and revocation of licenses or permits.
5.
BE IT FURTHER ORDAINED that additions or amendments to the Code when passed in such form as to indicate the intention to make the same a part of the Code shall be deemed to be incorporated in the Code, so that reference to the Code includes the additions and amendments.
6.
BE IT FURTHER ORDAINED that ordinances adopted after June 4, 2019 that amend or refer to ordinances that have been codified in the Code shall be construed as if they amend or refer to like provisions of the Code.
SO ADOPTED this 7th day of January, 2020.
EXPAND
/s/
      Mayor, City of Young Harris
    Attest: ___________
City Clerk
This ordinance was first read at the meeting of the Young Harris City Council held on the 3rd day of December, 2019; was second read at the City Council meeting on the 7th day of January, 2020; and was adopted by vote of 5 for and 0 against at the City Council meeting on the 7th day of January, 2020.
