ARTICLE X. - ELECTRIC MEMBERSHIP CORPORATION FRANCHISE

Sec. 18-250. - Grant of franchise to Planters EMC.
The mayor and council of the City of Sylvania hereby ordains by the authority of same that the authority, right, permission and consent are hereby granted to Planters EMC, which is an electric membership corporation defined in O.C.G.A. Title 46, Chapter 3, Article 2, its successors, lessees and assigns (the "company"), subject to the terms and conditions set forth hereinafter for a period of 50 years, to occupy and use the streets, alleys and public places of the city (the "government") within the present and future limits of the government as from time to time the company may deem proper or necessary for the overhead or underground construction, maintenance, operation, and extension of poles, towers, lines, wires, cables, conduits, insulators, transformers, appliances, equipment, connections and other apparatus for the business and purpose of transmitting, conveying, conducting, using, supplying and distributing electricity for light, heat, power and other purposes for which electric current may be or become useful or practicable for public or private use, and to re-enter upon such streets, alleys and public places from time to time as the company may deem proper or necessary to perform these functions, and to cut and trim trees and shrubbery when and where necessary, in the judgment of the company, to ensure safe and efficient service.
(Ord. No. 441, 3-6-07)
Sec. 18-251. - Use of streets, alleys, etc., conditioned on payment of franchise fees.
From and after the adoption of this article, the future use by Planters EMC of the streets, alleys, public places and other property of the government for the operation of the EMC's electric distribution systems and the grant of the requisite street franchise rights is expressly conditioned upon payment of franchise fees pursuant to this article, and continued use and occupancy of such government's property for said purpose without payment of such franchise fees shall be unlawful, and the government shall be entitled to enforce compliance with this article by appropriate proceeding at law or in equity.
(Ord. No. 441, 3-6-07)
Sec. 18-252. - Terms and conditions.
The rights, permission and consents herein contained are made for the following considerations and upon the following terms and conditions:
(1)
The company shall pay to the government:
a.
On or before the first day of April, 2008, a sum of money equal to four percent of the gross sales of electric energy to all of the company's customers served within the corporate limits of the government during the period beginning on the first day of April, 2007, through and including December 31, 2007, and
b.
On or before the first day of April, 2009, and the same day of each year thereafter during the term of the franchise herein granted a sum of money equal to four percent of the gross sales of electric energy to all of the company's customers served within the corporate limits of the government during the preceding calendar year;
provided, however, that in the event the government shall grant to any other electric utility the right to use and occupy its streets for like purposes, such use and occupancy shall be upon the same terms and conditions as those herein contained, including the payment provisions hereof.
(2)
The company shall fully protect, indemnify and save harmless the government from all damages to persons or property caused by the construction, maintenance, operation or extension of poles, wires or other apparatus, or conditions of streets, alleys or public places resulting therefrom for which the city would otherwise be liable.
(3)
The company shall, in constructing, maintaining, operating and extending its poles, wires and other apparatus submit and be subject to all reasonable exercises of the police power by the city.
(4)
The grant of the rights, permission and consents by the government to the company contained in this article are specifically conditioned upon the payment of all sums due the government in accordance with the rate, conditions and payment dates set forth in subsection (1), and failure by the company to timely pay the franchise fees required by said subsection (1) shall constitute a forfeiture of all rights granted by this chapter. From and after April 1, 2007, the company's continued use and occupancy of the streets, alleys and public places of the government for the aforesaid purposes shall evidence the company's acceptance of the franchise granted hereby and shall render the company liable for payment of all fees required by subsection (1). In the event of a forfeiture for failure to comply with such requirements, the company shall nevertheless remain liable for all sums accrued until such time as the streets are vacated due to such forfeiture.
(Ord. No. 441, 3-6-07)
Secs. 18-253—18-260. - Reserved.
