Chapter 4 - ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES[1]
Footnotes:
--- (1) ---
State Law reference— Georgia Alcoholic Beverage Code, O.C.G.A. § 3-1-1 et seq.; furnishing to, purchase of or possession by persons under 21 years of age; use of false identification, O.C.G.A. § 3-3-23; public drunkenness, O.C.G.A. § 16-11-41; furnishing alcoholic beverages to persons under 21 years of age; jurisdiction of municipal courts, O.C.G.A. § 36-32-10; treatment of alcoholics and intoxicated persons, O.C.G.A. § 37-8-1 et seq.; driving under the influence of alcohol or drugs, O.C.G.A. § 40-6-391.

ARTICLE I. - IN GENERAL

Sec. 4-1. - Definitions.
The following words, terms and phrases, when used in this chapter, shall have the meanings ascribed to them in this section, except where the context clearly indicates a different meaning:
Alcohol means ethyl alcohol, hydrated oxide of ethyl, or spirits of wine, from whatever source or by whatever process produced.
Alcoholic beverage means and includes all alcohol, distilled spirits, beer, malt beverages, wine or fortified wine.
County means and includes all property within the confines of the county but excluding all property located within the corporate limits of any municipal corporation located therein.
Distance measurement. Whenever any distance is referred to in this article, it shall mean the shortest distance between the building selling alcoholic beverages and the building for which the distance limitation applies, unless otherwise specifically set forth.
Distilled spirits means any alcoholic beverage obtained by distillation or containing more than 24 percent alcohol by volume, including, but not limited to, all fortified wines.
Fortified wine means any alcoholic beverage containing more than 24 percent alcohol by volume made from fruits, berries or grapes, either by natural fermentation or by natural fermentation with brandy added. The term "fortified wine" includes, but is not limited to, brandy.
Malt beverage means any alcoholic beverage obtained by the fermentation of any infusion or decoction of barley, malt, hops or any other similar product, or any combination of such products, in water, containing not more than six percent alcohol by volume, and including ale, porter, brown, stout, lager beer, small beer and strong beer. The term "malt beverage" does not include sake, also known as Japanese rice wine.
Package means a bottle, can, keg, barrel or other original consumer container.
Retail package liquor store means a retail business establishment owned by an individual, partnership, corporation, association, or other business entity:
(1)
Primarily engaged in the retail sale of distilled spirits, malt beverages, and wine in unbroken packages, not for consumption on the premises, except as authorized under this chapter; and
(2)
Which derives from such retail sale of alcoholic beverages in unbroken packages at least 75 percent of its total annual gross sales from the sale of a combination of distilled spirits, malt beverages, and wine.
Retailer or retail dealer means, except as to distilled spirits, any person who sells alcoholic beverages, either in unbroken packages or for consumption on the premises, at retail, only to consumers and not for resale. With respect to distilled spirits, the term "retailer" or "retail dealer" shall have the same meaning as the term "retail package liquor store."
Wholesaler or wholesale dealer means any person who sells alcoholic beverages to other wholesale dealers, to retail dealers, or to retail consumption dealers.
Wine means any alcoholic beverage containing not more than 24 percent alcohol by volume made from fruits, berries or grapes, either by natural fermentation or by natural fermentation with brandy added. The term "wine" includes, but is not limited to, all sparkling wines, champagnes, combinations of such beverages, vermouths, special natural wines, rectified wines and like products. The term "wine" does not include cooking wine mixed with salt or other ingredients so as to render it unfit for human consumption as a beverage. A liquid shall first be deemed to be a wine at that point in the manufacturing process when it conforms to the definition of the term "wine" contained in this section.
(Code 1992, § 4-1; Ord. of 1-5-2015, § 1)
Secs. 4-2—4-20. - Reserved.
ARTICLE II. - LICENSES

Sec. 4-21. - Character of applicant.
All applicants for retail alcoholic beverage licenses which may be issued under this article and all persons who will be employed at the establishment at which the license will be exercised shall be of good moral character, to be judged of and by the board of commissioners. If any of them are found by the board not to be of good character, the application shall be denied.
(Code 1992, § 4-26; Ord. of 1-5-2015, § 1)
Sec. 4-22. - Criminal record disqualifies applicant.
No applicant for a retail alcoholic beverage license which may be issued under this article who has a criminal record or who has been convicted of violating any law or regulation of the state or any political subdivision thereof, or of the United States of America, governing or relating to the sale of any alcoholic beverage, shall be granted a license pursuant to this article. The forfeiture of bond or collateral shall be considered as a conviction for the purpose of this section.
(Code 1992, § 4-27; Ord. of 1-5-2015, § 1)
Sec. 4-23. - Location of establishments near dwellings.
No new alcoholic beverage license shall be issued under this article for a location within 250 feet of a dwelling house without the written consent of the owner of same. This provision does not apply to any location which was licensed prior to January 1, 1984. This prohibition does not apply where a dwelling house was constructed or moved within 250 feet of a location with an existing license. For the purpose of this section, the term "dwelling house" shall include mobile or relocatable homes, duplexes and apartment buildings.
(Code 1992, § 4-28; Ord. of 1-5-2015, § 1)
Sec. 4-24. - Location of alcoholic beverage licenses.
(a)
No new retail package liquor license for a business engaged in the retail package sales of distilled spirits shall be issued within 500 yards of any other business licensed to sell distilled spirits at retail, as measured by the most direct route of travel on the ground; provided however, this limitation shall not apply to any hotel licensed under this chapter. Further provided, that this restriction shall not apply at any location for which a retail distilled spirits license has been issued prior to July 1, 1997, nor to the renewal of such license.
(b)
No license shall be issued for the sale of distilled spirits, malt beverages, and wine in and within 100 yards of any church building.
(c)
No license shall be issued for the sale of any distilled spirits within 200 yards of any school building, educational building, school grounds or college campus.
(d)
No license shall be issued for the sale of any wine or malt beverages within 100 yards of any school building, educational building, school grounds or college campus.
(e)
No license shall be issued for the sale of any distilled spirits, wine or malt beverages within 100 yards of any alcoholic treatment center owned and operated by the state, county or city government therein.
(f)
The distances defined herein shall not apply to any location of an existing license, renewal of license, or issuance of new license in a previously licensed location.
(g)
Nothing contained in this section shall prohibit the licensing of the sale of alcoholic beverages by:
(1)
Hotels or motels which have been in continuous operation for a period of at least five years preceding December 15, 2014;
(2)
Bona fide private clubs, owning their own buildings.
(Code 1992, § 4-28.1; Ord. of 1-5-2015, § 1)
Sec. 4-25. - Separate license for each business.
A separate alcoholic beverage license shall be required for each place of business.
(Code 1992, § 4-29; Ord. of 1-5-2015, § 1; Ord. of 3-6-2017(2))
Sec. 4-26. - Transfer.
No alcoholic beverage license issued under this article shall be assignable or transferable except from one partner to another in the licensed business, and, if a licensed business is sold or closed, the licensee must immediately surrender his license to the county administrator for cancellation.
(Code 1992, § 4-30; Ord. of 1-5-2015, § 1)
Sec. 4-27. - Inspection of premises.
The premises of any establishment licensed under this article shall be made available by the licensee for inspection at all reasonable times by the board of commissioners, the county administrator or other authorized personnel.
(Code 1992, § 4-31; Ord. of 1-5-2015, § 1)
Sec. 4-28. - Filing of new application after revocation or denial; time period.
No license shall be issued under this article to any person whose license has been revoked, within a period of 12 months following the date of such revocation, either at the location at which the license was revoked or at any other location. If an applicant is denied a license based on section 4-32, no new application by him will be considered within 12 months of the denial.
(Code 1992, § 4-32; Ord. of 1-5-2015, § 1)
Sec. 4-29. - Unlawful hours of sale.
(a)
No alcoholic beverage licensed for sale under this article shall be sold between the hours of 1:45 a.m. and 8:00 a.m.
(b)
No retail package license shall be permitted to sell package malt beverages, wine, and distilled spirits on Sundays, except between the hours of 1:00 p.m. and 10:00 p.m.
(Code 1992, § 4-33; Ord. of 1-5-2015, § 1; Ord. No. O-714 , § 4, 12-7-2020)
Sec. 4-30. - Posting of article provisions.
All holders of alcoholic beverage licenses issued under this article shall keep a copy of this article posted in the licensed premises at all times and shall thoroughly familiarize themselves and thoroughly instruct each employee of such establishment with respect to the provisions hereof.
(Code 1992, § 4-34; Ord. of 1-5-2015, § 1)
Sec. 4-31. - Applicants posing as front.
No alcoholic beverage license shall be issued under this article to any person who is, in fact, a front for any person whose license has been revoked.
(Code 1992, § 4-35; Ord. of 1-5-2015, § 1)
Sec. 4-32. - Issuance and renewal.
(a)
All applications for new alcoholic beverage licenses under the provisions of this article shall be made in person by the applicant at the office of the county administrator, and the required annual license fee shall be tendered therewith.
(b)
The making of any statement on an application for a license under this article which is later found to be false shall be grounds for revocation of any license which has been issued pursuant to the application.
(c)
All valid licenses which have been issued under the provisions of this article shall be renewed by the county administrator on a yearly basis, unless such licenses are revoked or suspended by the board of commissioners in accordance with this article. The holders of valid licenses desiring renewal of licenses must appear in person at the office of the county administrator prior to January 1 of the year in which a renewal is desired. Failure to appear as required will cause the license to expire.
(d)
The issuance of a license under this article for any calendar year or portion thereof shall not be deemed to vest the licensee with any right of renewal thereof.
(e)
Any applicant seeking a new alcohol beverage permit shall furnish a complete set of fingerprints to be forwarded to the Georgia Bureau of Investigation, which shall search the files of the Georgia Crime Information Center for any instance of criminal activity during the two years immediately preceding the date of the application. The Georgia Bureau of Investigation shall also submit the fingerprints to the Federal Bureau of Investigation under the rules established by the United States Department of Justice for processing and identification of records. The federal record, if any, shall be obtained and returned to the governing authority submitting fingerprints.
(Code 1992, § 4-36; Ord. of 1-5-2015, § 1; Ord. of 5-7-2018 )
Sec. 4-33. - Suspension; revocation.
(a)
Any license issued under this article may be suspended for a definite time, not to exceed six months, or may be revoked for the performance by the licensee or by any employee of the licensed establishment of any act prohibited by this article, for the failure of the licensee or any employee of the licensed establishment to perform any act required by this article, or for the violation by the licensee or by any employee of the licensed establishment of any law, state or federal, relating to the sale of alcoholic beverages.
(b)
Any license issued under this article may be suspended for a period of time, not exceeding six months, or may be revoked, should the licensed establishment have become a trouble spot in the judgment of the board of commissioners by reason of disturbance or acts of disorderly conduct, violence or gambling having occurred in the establishment, or on the premises thereof. When the license of any establishment has been revoked or not renewed because the establishment has become a trouble spot, no further license shall be issued under this article to any person at the location for a period of at least 12 months from the date of revocation.
(c)
No license issued under this article may be suspended or revoked and no performance bond forfeited, in whole or in part, under the provisions of this article, unless the licensee has been afforded an opportunity for a hearing before the board of commissioners. The licensee shall be given at least ten days' written notice, delivered to the licensee in person or by United States registered mail, of the time, place and purpose of the hearing and the grounds of suspension, revocation or bond forfeiture upon which the board proposes to take action. At any such hearing, the licensee shall have the right to appear before the board in person and by attorney and to have witnesses appear in his behalf. Action taken by the board in suspending or revoking any license or in forfeiting any performance bond, in whole or in part, shall be final.
(Code 1992, § 4-37; Ord. of 1-5-2015, § 1)
Sec. 4-34. - Prohibited issuances.
(a)
No license for the sale of distilled spirits shall be issued to the following:
(1)
Any establishment which is located within 300 yards of any substance abuse or training center or facility for the treatment of the mentally, emotionally or physically handicapped. Such distance is to be measured from the nearest wall or fence of any such center to the nearest wall or fence of the proposed place of business.
(2)
A grocery store, supermarket, meat market or any other like wholesale or retail establishment.
(3)
An automobile service station, gas station or garage.
(b)
No license shall be issued for a place unless the place is one devoted primarily to the sale of alcoholic beverages and is an appropriate location, considering the character of the premises, its surroundings and the wishes of the persons residing or owning property in the neighborhood.
(Code 1992, § 4-38; Ord. of 1-5-2015, § 1)
Sec. 4-35. - Limitation upon number of licenses for the sale of distilled spirits.
(a)
No license for the sale of distilled spirits shall be issued so that the number of such licenses within the unincorporated limits of the county exceeds one such license to each 4,000 residents, or major fraction thereof, within the unincorporated limits of the county, as shown by the current official U.S. decennial census.
(b)
The limitation upon the number of licenses for the sale of distilled spirits to be issued, as herein provided, shall not preclude transfer of such licenses; but, upon revocation of any existing license, no renewal thereof or new license therefor shall be issued contrary to the limitation herein described.
(c)
When additional licenses for the sale of distilled spirits become available, by reason of an increase in population or by any reason, no current retail dealer licensee or any other person who has held a direct or indirect interest in a license for the sale of distilled spirits during the preceding 12 months shall be entitled to apply for and receive more than one such newly available license.
(d)
A licensee for the sale of distilled spirits shall be entitled to a renewal of an annual license from year to year, in accordance with the regulatory procedure promulgated by the county.
(e)
Clubs, restaurants and motels shall not be precluded under this section; provided, however, clubs, restaurants and motels in which minors are allowed as patrons shall not be allowed to engage in the sale of intoxicating liquors for consumption off the premises.
(Code 1992, § 4-38.1; Ord. of 1-5-2015, § 1)
Sec. 4-36. - Fees.
The fees to be charged for alcoholic beverage licenses are as determined from time to time by the county board of commissioners and listed in the schedule of fees and charges.
(Code 1992, § 4-39; Ord. of 1-5-2015, § 1)
Sec. 4-37. - Provisions deemed supplementary.
It is the intention of the board of commissioners that the alcohol control policy, as set forth in this article, shall be supplementary to existing resolutions and ordinances of the county relating to the licensing and control of alcoholic beverages.
(Code 1992, § 4-40; Ord. of 1-5-2015, § 1)
Secs. 4-38—4-62. - Reserved.
ARTICLE III. - EXCISE TAXES
DIVISION 1. - GENERALLY

Sec. 4-63. - Inspection and audit of books and records.
The books and records of all wholesalers selling or delivering any wine, malt beverages and packaged distilled spirits to retailers made subject to this tax and the books and records of all retailers made subject to this tax shall be open for inspection and audit by the agents of the county, to ensure compliance herewith, and it shall be unlawful for any person to deny any authorized agent of the county reasonable access to such books and records. Such books and records shall, for wholesalers, contain information showing deliveries of any of such beverages to persons upon whom the tax hereby assessed and levied is imposed separately, and the monthly reports of such wholesalers shall show, separately, deliveries made to each retailer, separately, so that sales of any of the beverages described in this article may be identified with respect to each retailer upon whom the tax is imposed by this article.
(Code 1992, § 4-61)
Secs. 4-64—4-84. - Reserved.
DIVISION 2. - MALT BEVERAGES[2]

Footnotes:
--- (2) ---
State Law reference— Imposition of excise tax on malt beverages, O.C.G.A. § 3-5-80.

Sec. 4-85. - Levy.
There is hereby imposed upon and levied against every licensed wholesale dealer in malt beverages an excise tax, in addition to the excise taxes presently levied by the state, as follows:
(1)
Where malt beverages, commonly known as tap or draft beer, are sold in or from a barrel or bulk container, a tax of $6.00 on each container sold containing not more than 15½ gallons and a proportionate tax at the same rate on all fractional parts of 15½ gallons.
(2)
Where malt beverages are sold in bottles, cans or other containers, except barrel or bulk containers, a tax of $0.05 per 12 ounces and proportionate tax at the same rate on all fractional parts of 12 ounces.
(Code 1992, § 4-71)
Sec. 4-86. - Payment.
The excise tax levied and imposed in this division upon licensed wholesalers is levied and imposed with respect to malt beverages sold or distributed by such wholesalers in the county to retailers doing business outside the corporate limits of municipalities in the county.
(Code 1992, § 4-72)
Secs. 4-87—4-115. - Reserved.
DIVISION 3. - PACKAGED DISTILLED SPIRITS[3]

Footnotes:
--- (3) ---
State Law reference— Levy of tax on sale of distilled spirits by package authorized, O.C.G.A. § 3-4-80.

Sec. 4-116. - Levy.
There is hereby levied upon every dealer at retail of packaged distilled spirits a tax of $0.22 per liter of distilled spirits, and a proportionate tax at the same rate on all fractional parts of a liter delivered by wholesalers to retailers whose place of business is located within the limits of the county outside the corporate limits of municipalities therein.
(Code 1992, § 4-86)
Sec. 4-117. - Payment.
(a)
The taxes levied pursuant to this division shall be paid by the retailers upon whom such tax is levied to wholesalers at the time of delivery of the packaged distilled spirits to the retailer. It shall be the duty of each such retailer to pay, and it shall be the duty of each wholesaler to collect, the tax hereby levied, and wholesalers shall remit such taxes to the county on or before the tenth of the month for all of such taxes paid by such retailers and collected by such wholesalers during the preceding calendar month.
(b)
It shall be unlawful for any retail seller of packaged distilled spirits to receive and retain any beverages unless he shall have paid the tax herein levied. It shall likewise be unlawful for any wholesaler of packaged distilled spirits to deliver any such beverage to any retailer thereof unless he shall concurrently, with such delivery, collect the tax imposed hereby. It shall be unlawful for any wholesaler of such beverages to fail to remit, when due, the taxes levied hereby and collected by any such wholesaler. It shall likewise be unlawful for any person engaged as a retailer of such beverages to receive any such beverages from another retailer of such beverages, unless the tax herein imposed and levied has been paid. It shall further be unlawful for any retailer of such beverages to receive any such beverages from another retail store, whether such other store shall be owned by the receiving retailer or not, and irrespective of the location of such other store, unless the tax herein imposed has been paid.
(Code 1992, § 4-87)
Secs. 4-118—4-147. - Reserved.
DIVISION 4. - WINE[4]

Footnotes:
--- (4) ---
State Law reference— Authorization to levy tax on wine, O.C.G.A. § 3-6-60.

Sec. 4-148. - Levy.
Retail dealers in wine shall pay a tax of $0.22 per liter and a proportionate tax at the same rate on all fractional parts of a liter on all wine delivered by wholesalers to retailers whose place of business is located within the limits of the county outside the corporate limits of municipalities therein. Such a tax is hereby levied upon each such retailer. The payment of such tax is made a condition precedent to the sale of wine, and no person shall sell any wine without paying the tax hereby levied.
(Code 1992, § 4-101)
Sec. 4-149. - Payment.
The tax levied by this division upon dealers at retail in wine shall be paid and collected in the same manner as the tax levied upon retail dealers of packaged distilled spirits, as prescribed in section 4-117, the terms of which are incorporated herein and made a part of this section for all purposes.
(Code 1992, § 4-102)
Secs. 4-150—4-166. - Reserved.
ARTICLE IV. - SPECIAL EVENT ALCOHOL PERMIT

Sec. 4-167. - Title.
This article shall be known as the Wayne County Special Event Alcohol Permit Ordinance.
(Code 1992, § 4-121; Ord. of 3-10-2016, § I)
Sec. 4-168. - Purpose.
The purpose and intent of this article is to ensure that event sponsors/producers engaging in special events are responsible for the sale of alcohol at special events.
(Code 1992, § 4-122; Ord. of 3-10-2016, § II)
Sec. 4-169. - Definitions.
The following words, terms and phrases, when used in this article, shall have the meanings ascribed to them in this section, except where the context clearly indicates a different meaning:
Administrator means the administrator of the government of the county, or his designee, for the administration of this article.
Producer means any person, group of persons, organization, association, club, or other entity responsible for planning, producing and conducting a special event.
Special event means any organized activity having as its purpose entertainment, recreation and/or education, such as a festival or concert, foot or vehicle race, parade or march, rally or assembly which takes place on public property, a public street, sidewalk or right-of-way, or occurs on private property and impacts government services on public rights-of-way, and intends on selling or serving alcohol during the special event.
Special event alcohol permit means a permit to sell or consume alcoholic beverages as defined in section 4-170.
(Code 1992, § 4-123; Ord. of 3-10-2016, § III)
Sec. 4-170. - Special event alcohol permit requirement.
(a)
A special event alcohol permit is required for any special event selling or serving alcohol and that is held in the county. A special event alcohol permit may be requested by any producer holding a special event. Such permit shall be for the sale of beer and wine only and the sale of such shall meet all requirements of this chapter that govern the sale of alcoholic beverages in package stores.
(b)
The applicant must submit a completed special event alcohol permit application to the county administrator. A special event alcohol permit shall list out in detail the purpose and activities of the special event. The special event alcohol permit shall list an estimated number of attendees and a design of any alcoholic beverage cafes. A special event permit shall be issued only in conjunction with a special event which has been approved by the county board of commissioners. The permit required by this section is in addition to a state special event alcoholic beverage permit.
(c)
A separate application must be made for each location and for each event. No more than six permits may be issued to any person or organization in any one calendar year, and all events must be associated with and benefit the cause of a charitable, civic, or not-for-profit organization. Any misstatement or concealment of fact in the application shall be grounds for denial or revocation of the license issued and shall subject the applicant to prosecution under the laws of the state.
(d)
The granting of a special event alcohol permit is a privilege subject to be annulled and revoked if the applicant is deemed to not conduct the event in accordance with ordinances of the county or the laws of the state.
(e)
It shall be unlawful for any person, group, organization, association, club or other entity to conduct or cause to be conducted any special event in the county without having obtained a valid permit for such event.
(Code 1992, § 4-124; Ord. of 3-10-2016, § IV)
Sec. 4-171. - Application; fees.
(a)
An application for a special event should be filed with the county administrator at least 30 days prior to the date the special event is scheduled to occur. However, the 30-day requirement can be waived by the county board of commissioners upon a showing of need by the producer. No application shall be accepted earlier than one year prior to the date of the event.
(b)
A nonrefundable application fee as determined from time to time by the board of commissioners shall be paid at the time the application for a permit is filed. Such fee shall be payable to the county by cash, money order, or cashier's check.
(c)
After approval of the application by the county board of commissioners, a special events alcohol permit fee as determined from time to time by the board of commissioners shall be imposed on the producer of the special event and shall be paid prior to the special event.
(Code 1992, § 4-125; Ord. of 3-10-2016, § V)
Sec. 4-172. - Application process.
After receipt of the application for a special event alcohol permit, the county administrator shall provide a copy of the application to the county sheriff and the emergency management director. The county sheriff and the emergency management director shall review the application and may make recommendations in writing as to certain conditions or restrictions as deemed necessary to facilitate the event; to comply with other laws or regulations, and/or to ensure the safety, health and welfare of the community. In reviewing the recommendation, the board of commissioners may impose such conditions or restrictions as a part of the permit, and such special conditions so imposed shall be construed to have the full force and effect of law as a provision of this article. Any violation of such conditions or restrictions shall be deemed a violation of this article. The county board of commissioners will have the final vote at any of its duly organized meetings to approve the application. The county board of commissioners shall be allowed to waive or add any provision or condition as necessary to the application or permit including any fees associated with the permit so as to benefit the safety, health and welfare of the community.
(Code 1992, § 4-126; Ord. of 3-10-2016, § VI)
Sec. 4-173. - Liability.
(a)
Notwithstanding any other provisions of this article and prior to any vote by the county board of commissioners, the producer of any special event shall hold harmless the government of the county, its officers, employees and agents from liability for damages or injuries arising from any acts or omissions emanating from a special event. Proof of same shall be made by purchasing an insurance policy which shall be filed with, and made a part of, the application form. The producer shall be responsible for providing any and all other insurance that may be necessary for any special event.
(b)
The amount of insurance coverage shall be determined by the county administrator once the application has been submitted for consideration.
(Code 1992, § 4-127; Ord. of 3-10-2016, § VII)
Sec. 4-174. - Sale of alcohol/wine at special event.
(a)
A special outdoor cafe area within a special event where beer and/or wine is permitted shall be securely enclosed on all sides by a fence, barricade or other similar such structure. The special outdoor cafe area shall be in compliance with the same distances located in this article.
(b)
The producer of the special event shall provide, at his own expense, a certain number of security officers, as determined and approved by the sheriff, or his designee, at each special outdoor cafe area approved for the consumption of beer and/or wine.
(c)
Every area where beer and/or wine is consumed shall be conspicuously posted at all times at each point of entrance/exit with signs stating the following: "The possession of alcoholic beverages beyond this point is prohibited." The letters of such signs shall not be less than three inches in height and one-half inch in width, and shall be in black letters on a contrasting light background.
(d)
All applicants who apply for a special event alcohol permit must have food available to event attendees for free or for sale.
(e)
The use of glass containers within the area of any special event shall be prohibited.
(f)
The producer of a special event shall be required to provide temporary outdoor toilet facilities, consistent with the number attendees, and as determined by the director of the building inspection department.
(g)
Except for clearing of the area, no special event shall be allowed to continue beyond the time approved on the permit for the event.
(h)
The producer of a special event shall be responsible for cleaning the venue within 12 hours of the special event.
(Code 1992, § 4-128; Ord. of 3-10-2016, § VIII)
Sec. 4-175. - Cessation of activities.
The safety, health, welfare and good order of all citizens and the community shall be first and foremost and every special event shall be conducted in such a manner. The sheriff of the county may terminate any activity, whether a part of or the entire event, which does not meet this community standard. Upon notification of the event producer in person by the county sheriff's office to cease any activity, it shall be unlawful for such producer and/or any participants to permit such activity to continue.
(Code 1992, § 4-129; Ord. of 3-10-2016, § IX)
Sec. 4-176. - Duration of permit.
No permit issued under this article shall be valid prior to or past the date of the special event for which it is issued.
(Code 1992, § 4-130; Ord. of 3-10-2016, § X)
Sec. 4-177. - County facilities.
Except as set forth herein below, it shall be unlawful for any person to sell or consume any alcoholic beverage at any county-owned building or facility. The sale and consumption of alcoholic beverages at any boat ramp, river landing, or any county-owned pavilion shall only be permitted with an approved application for a special event alcohol permit through the county administrator's office and approval by the county board of commissioners during any of its duly-organized meetings or by express permission granted in writing and approved by a majority vote of the county board of commissioners.
(Code 1992, § 4-131; Ord. of 3-10-2016, § XI; Ord. No. O-696 , 6-3-2019)
Sec. 4-178. - Compliance with state law.
Nothing in this article shall be construed or interpreted to relieve a producer of complying with any state law regulating the sale or consumption of alcoholic beverages.
(Code 1992, § 4-133; Ord. of 3-10-2016, § XIII)
