ARTICLE V. - ELECTION OF JUDGE OF PROBATE COURT AND CHIEF MAGISTRATE[7]

Footnotes:
--- (7) ---
Editor's note— Printed in this article is 2004 Ga. Laws page 3799. Amendments are indicated by parenthetical history notes following amended provisions. The absence of a history note indicates that the provision remains unchanged from the original. Obvious misspellings have been corrected without notation. For stylistic purposes, the same style of expression of numbers in text as appears in the Code of Ordinances has been used. The title of the Act has been omitted. Catchlines have been editorially supplied. A consistent scheme of capitalization has also been used.

Sec. 1. - Elections to be nonpartisan.
All elections for the office of probate judge of Wayne County and for the office of chief magistrate of Wayne County conducted after the effective date of this Act shall be nonpartisan elections as provided for in Code section 21-2-139 of the O.C.G.A. [(O.C.G.A. § 21-2-139)] and shall be conducted at the general primary election immediately preceding the expiration of the term of such respective office. Such nonpartisan elections shall be held and conducted as provided in chapter 2 of title 21 of the O.C.G.A. [(O.C.G.A. § 21-2-1 et seq.)], [known as] the Georgia Election Code.
Sec. 2. - Terms of office not changed.
Nothing in this Act shall affect the term of office of the probate judge of Wayne County or chief magistrate of Wayne County in office on the effective date of this Act. The sitting probate judge and sitting chief magistrate shall serve out the respective terms of office for which such person was elected and shall be eligible to succeed himself or herself as provided in this Act.
Sec. 3. - Submittal to Department of Justice.
The governing authority of Wayne County shall, through its legal counsel, cause this Act to be submitted for pre-clearance under the Federal Voting Rights Act of 1965, as amended; and such submission shall be made to the United States Department of Justice or filed with the appropriate court no later than 60 days after the date on which this Act is approved by the governor or otherwise becomes law without such approval.
Sec. 4. - Effective date.
This Act shall become effective upon its approval by the governor or upon its becoming law without such approval.
Sec. 5. - Repealer.
All laws and parts of laws in conflict with this Act are repealed.
