ARTICLE I. - BOARD OF COMMISSIONERS[2]

Footnotes:
--- (2) ---
Editor's note— Printed in this article is 1962 Ga. Laws page 3110. Amendments are indicated by parenthetical history notes following amended provisions. The absence of a history note indicates that the provision remains unchanged from the original. Obvious misspellings have been corrected without notation. For stylistic purposes, the same style of expression of numbers in text as appears in the Code of Ordinances has been used. A consistent scheme of capitalization has also been used. Pursuant to O.C.G.A. § 36-5-20 the words "roads and revenues" have been stricken from the name of the governing authority. The title of the Act has been omitted. Other additions for clarity are indicated by brackets.

Sec. 1. - Board of commissioners established.
There is hereby created in and for the County of Wayne a board of commissioners to be elected and organized, as hereinafter set forth, which board of commissioners shall constitute the governing authority of said county and shall exercise the powers, duties and responsibilities specified herein and imposed upon said officers by the laws of the State of Georgia.
Sec. 2. - Commissioner districts.
(a)
The Board of Commissioners of Wayne County shall be composed of five members who shall be elected as provided in this Act. For purposes of electing members of the board of commissioners, Wayne County is divided into five commissioner districts. The districts shall be and correspond to those five numbered districts described in Appendix A attached to and made a part of this Act and further identified as "User: Wayne Co. Plan Name: WayneCCSB-2022 Plan Type: Local."
(b)
For the purposes of such plan:
(1)
The term "VTD" shall mean and describe the same geographical boundaries as provided in the report of the Bureau of the Census for the United States decennial census of 2020 for the State of Georgia. The separate numeric designations in a district description which are underneath a VTD heading shall mean and describe individual Blocks within a VTD as provided in the report of the Bureau of the Census for the United States decennial census of 2020 for the State of Georgia; and
(2)
Except as otherwise provided in the description of any district, whenever the description of any district refers to a named city, it shall mean the geographical boundaries of that city as shown on the census maps for the United States decennial census of 2020 for the State of Georgia.
(c)
Any part of Wayne County which is not included in any such district described in subsection (a) of this section shall be included within that district contiguous to such part which contains the least population according to the United States decennial census of 2020 for the State of Georgia.
(d)
Any part of Wayne County which is described in subsection (a) of this section as being in a particular district shall nevertheless not be included within such district if such part is not contiguous to such district. Such noncontiguous part shall instead be included within that district contiguous to such part which contains the least population according to the United States decennial census of 2020 for the State of Georgia.
(1982 Ga. Laws, page 3789; 1982 Ga. Laws, page 4717; 1994 Ga. Laws, page 3520, § 1; 2001 Ga. Laws (Ex. Sess.), page 676, § 1; 2012 Ga. Laws, page 4548, § 1; 2022 Ga. Laws, Act No. 359 , § 1)
Editor's note— Appendix A is not set out herein, but is on file with the county.
Sec. 3. - Elections and terms of office.
(a)
A commissioner shall be elected from each of the five commissioner districts described in Section 2. No person shall be a member of the board if that person is ineligible for such office pursuant to Code Section 45-2-1 of the O.C.G.A. or any other general law applicable to that office. In order to be elected as a member of the board from a commissioner district, a person must receive the number of votes cast as required by general law for that office in that district only. Only electors who are residents of that commissioner district may vote for a member of the board for that district. At the time of qualifying for election as a member of the board from a commissioner district, each candidate for such office shall specify the commissioner district for which that person is a candidate. A person elected or appointed as a member of the board from a commissioner district shall continue to reside in that district during that person's term of office or such office shall become vacant.
(b)
(1)
Those members of the Board of Commissioners of Wayne County who are serving as of March 1, 2022, and any person selected to fill a vacancy in any such office shall continue to serve as such members until the regular expiration of their respective terms of office and upon the election and qualification of their respective successors.
(2)
Successors to members of the board provided for in paragraph (1) of this subsection, shall be elected at the time of the November state-wide general election immediately preceding the expiration of such terms, shall take office on the first day of January immediately following that election, and except as provided for in paragraph (3) of this subsection shall have terms of office of four years each and until their respective successors are elected and qualified.
(3)
At the general election held on the Tuesday after the first Monday in November, 2022, the commissioners elected to Districts 1, 3, and 5 shall each have an initial term of office of two years and until their respective successors are elected and qualified. Thereafter, successors to those commissioners shall serve terms of office of four years and until their respective successors are elected and qualified.
(c)
All members of the board who are elected thereto shall be nominated and elected in accordance with Chapter 2 of Title 21 of the O.C.G.A. [O.C.G.A. § 21-2-1], the "Georgia Election Code."
(1968 Ga. Laws, page 2746; 1982 Ga. Laws, page 3789; 1982 Ga. Laws, page 4717; 1994 Ga. Laws, page 3520, § 2; 2001 Ga. Laws (Ex. Sess.), page 676, § 2; 2012 Ga. Laws, page 4548, § 2; 2022 Ga. Laws, Act No. 359 , § 1)
Sec. 4. - Additional qualifications.
In addition to the residency requirements of section 3 of this act, members of the board of commissioners shall be citizens of Georgia who are at least 25 years of age on the date of taking office and who are qualified electors of Wayne County. No member of the board of commissioners shall be eligible to hold any other office of the county or of the State of Georgia while holding office as a member of the board.
(1982 Ga. Laws, page 3789; 1982 Ga. Laws, page 4717)
Sec. 5. - Vacancies.
(a)
All vacancies in the membership of the board of commissioners occurring within one year or less of the expiration of the term of office shall be filled by appointment of the remaining members of the board. All vacancies occurring in the membership of the board more than one year [from the expiration of the term of office] shall be filled by special election within the respective commissioner district wherein the vacancy occurred. A special election hereunder shall be called by the election superintendent of Wayne County within 30 days after the occurrence of the vacancy, and shall be held and conducted in accordance with the applicable provisions of chapter 2 of title 21 of the Official Code of Georgia Annotated [(O.C.G.A. § 21-2-1 et seq.)], known as the Georgia Election Code.
(b)
If a commissioner ceases to be a resident of his or her respective commissioner district during the term of office, a vacancy shall thereby be created and shall be filled in the same manner as other vacancies are filled. Any person appointed or elected to fill a vacancy shall possess the residency and other qualifications necessary to hold office as a commissioner.
(1982 Ga. Laws, page 3789; 1982 Ga. Laws, page 4717)
Sec. 6. - Oath of office.
The commissioners designated as constituting the board of commissioners hereinabove and each commissioner hereafter elected or appointed to the office of commissioner shall, before assuming the duties of such office, take and subscribe the following oath, viz.: "I solemnly swear that I will faithfully and impartially perform my duties as a member of the board of commissioners of Wayne County during my continuance in office. I further swear that I am not the holder of any public funds unaccounted for. So help me God."
Sec. 7. - Bonding commissioners.
Before entering upon the duties of [his] office, each commissioner shall give a satisfactory surety bond executed by a bonding company authorized to do business in the State of Georgia, in an amount of $5,000.00 each, to be approved by the judge of the probate court of said county and payable to the judge of the probate court of said county, for the use of said county, conditioned upon the faithful performance of the duties of the office. The costs of each such bond shall be paid out of the county treasury. No member of the board shall serve until said bond has been filed and approved.
Sec. 8. - Compensation.
Members of the board herein created shall be paid, as their entire compensation for services, the sum of $150.00 per month, payable monthly out of the treasury of the county. In addition thereto, each member shall be entitled to recover from the county the actual expenses expended by him while engaged in county business, which said claim for expenses shall be accompanied by an affidavit executed by each such member, swearing that the same is true and correct and was expended by him while so engaged.
(1983 Ga. Laws, page 3219; 1973 Ga. Laws, page 3682; 1974 Ga. Laws, page 3148)
Sec. 9. - Recall.
Each member of the board of commissioners shall be subject to recall at any time after his election. The petition for such recall election must be signed by not less than 15 percent of the qualified registered voters of said county who were on the list of registered voters for the last general election. Every person signing such petition must sign the same in the office of the judge of the probate court of Wayne County, and it must be signed in the presence of the judge of the probate court, or of an employee of the probate court. The person or persons sponsoring such petition shall address such petition to the judge of the probate court, petitioning him to call for a special election to submit the question of whether any member of the board shall be recalled. The judge of the probate court shall allow such person or persons, from time to time, to count the number of names on said petition in order to determine whether a sufficient number of people have signed the petition. Such person or persons must notify the judge of the probate court when they desire to officially present the petition to him; provided, however, that no such petition shall be presented to the judge of the probate court more than 15 days after it is placed in the judge of the probate court's office for the purpose of obtaining signatures thereon. Any petition presented after such 15-day period shall be void and of no force and effect. It shall then be the duty of the judge of the probate court to determine whether such petition bears the proper percentage of names and to determine the sufficiency of the petition. For this purpose, the clerk of the superior court of Wayne County is hereby directed to furnish the judge of the probate court with a list of the registered voters for the last general election. The judge of the probate court must make his decision on the sufficiency of the petition within 15 days after the same is formally presented to him. In the event he determines that the petition is in order, it shall be his duty to issue the call for an election, and such call shall be issued within five days after he determines that such petition is in order. He shall set the date of the election for not less than 20 nor more than 30 days from the date of the issuance of the call and shall publish the date and purpose of such election once a week for two weeks immediately preceding the date thereof. The ballots used in such election shall state the name of the member of the board whose recall has been petitioned, and shall designate the district number of such member. The ballot shall have written or printed thereon, the words, "For recall of (name of member) (district number)" and "Against recall of (name of member) (district number)." The judge of the probate court shall forthwith publish the results of such election, and if a majority of those voting in such election have voted in favor of recall, the position in question shall be vacated from the date of such recall election, and the member so removed shall not be eligible to re-election or appointment to the unexpired term. If a majority of those voting in such election vote against recall, the member shall retain his office. Vacancies created by a recall election shall be filled in the same manner as herein provided for the filling of other vacancies. In the event a recall election results in a majority of votes against recall, no additional recall election against the same member shall be held for at least two years.
Editor's note— Pursuant to art. VI, § VI, ¶ IV of the Constitution of Georgia of 1976, the word "ordinary" has been changed to "judge of the probate court" or "probate court."
Sec. 10. - Chairman.
At [its] first regular meeting after the approval of this Act, and at the first regular meeting in each year thereafter, the board of commissioners shall, by majority vote, elect one of [its] number as chairman. The chairman shall serve at the pleasure of a majority of the members of the board and may be removed at any time by a majority vote without notice, cause or hearing. It shall be the duty of the chairman to act as presiding officer at all meetings of the board of commissioners, and he shall be recognized as [the] ceremonial head of the county government, but shall have no other administrative duties, except as herein provided, or such as may be delegated to him by the board of commissioners. In the event of the absence, disqualification or disability of the chairman, the members of the board shall appoint and designate some member of [its] body to act as temporary chairman. It shall be the duty of the chairman to preserve order and decorum at all meetings of the board, to state every question coming before the board, announce the decision of the board on all subjects and decide all questions of order; subject, however, to an appeal to the board, in which event, a majority vote of the board shall govern and conclusively determine such question of order. The chairman shall have the right to vote on all matters coming before the board and shall have the right to move for the adoption of any resolutions or other matters coming before the board.
Sec. 11. - Quorum.
Three members of the board of commissioners shall constitute a quorum for the transaction of all business which may come before them.
Sec. 12. - Meetings.
All regular meetings of the board of commissioners shall be held on the first Monday in each month at 6:00 p.m. or after at the courthouse in Wayne County, as amended from time to time by the Wayne County Board of Commissioners, and said meetings may be adjourned from day to day until all business is completed. Extra sessions or special meetings may be held at any time on the call of the chairman or by any two members of the board. Whenever a special meeting is called, notice shall be given by the clerk of the board to each member of the board, in writing, setting forth the date, hour and place of the meeting, and the purpose for which the same is called, and no business shall be transacted at such special meeting, except such as is given in the notice, without the unanimous consent of the entire board of commissioners. Notice and purpose of meetings may be waived. All such notices shall be served by leaving the same at the home of each such member or by delivering the same to him in person. All meetings, both regular and special, shall be open to the public; provided, however, that the board shall have the right to hold executive sessions; provided further, that no official action or vote on any proposition or question coming before the board shall be taken at other than a public meeting.
( Res. No. R-942 , 2-7-2022)
Sec. 13. - Enforcement of decorum.
The board of commissioners shall have the right to appoint a sergeant-at-arms of all commission meetings, whose duty it shall be to carry out the orders of the chairman in all matters relative to maintaining order and decorum.
Sec. 14. - Rules of procedure.
It shall be the duty of the board of commissioners to adopt rules of order and bylaws by which all meetings shall be conducted, said rules of order and bylaws to be spread upon the minutes of the board.
Sec. 15. - [Clerk of the commissioners—Office created.]
There is hereby created the office of clerk of the commissioners of Wayne County, Georgia, who shall be appointed by the county administrator. The county administrator shall have the authority to fix the salary of the clerk and to remove the clerk at any time without notice, statement or proof of cause. No member of the board of commissioners shall be eligible to hold the office of clerk during his or her continuance in office nor within 12 months after the expiration of the term, nor within 12 months after resignation or removal from the office of commissioner. No member of the immediate family of the county administrator or of members of the board shall be eligible to serve as clerk. The county administrator shall have the authority to appoint an assistant clerk, should the same be deemed necessary.
(1963 Ga. Laws, page 2301)
Sec. 16. - [Same—Duties.]
The clerk of the board of commissioners shall devote his entire time to the duties of his office and shall hold no other office, elective or otherwise, during his term as clerk. It shall be the duty of the board of commissioners to provide ample office space for the clerk in the courthouse in Wayne County. It shall be the duty of the clerk of the board of commissioners to attend all meetings of the board; to keep a careful and accurate record of its proceedings, including a record of the votes on all questions coming before the board; keep an accurate set of books showing in detail all items of income and expense of the county; act as depositary for all funds received by officers of the county, required by law to deposit the same with the county depositary; to account for all revenues due said county from whatever source; furnish to the board of commissioners such information as may be requested by [it], and the clerk shall open his books at any reasonable time to any citizen requesting to see the same; keep and preserve all of the records of the board of commissioners; countersign all vouchers issued by the board of commissioners, thereby certifying that the same is a proper expenditure, authorized by the board of commissioners; and perform such other duties as may be required of him by the board of commissioners. In the event of the absence or disqualification of the clerk, the duties of such office may be performed by the assistant clerk appointed by the county administrator.
(1963 Ga. Laws, page 2301)
Sec. 17. - Bond of clerk.
Before entering upon his duties as clerk, it shall be the duty of the clerk and the assistant clerk to execute and deliver to the board of commissioners good and sufficient bond, in the amount of $25,000.00, executed by a solvent bonding company authorized to do business in the State of Georgia, to be approved by the board of commissioners, payable to the board of commissioners and their successors in the office, for the use of Wayne County, conditioned upon the faithful performance of his duties. The costs of such bonds shall be paid from the general funds of Wayne County.
Sec. 18. - Board of commissioners.
It shall be the duty of the board of commissioners of Wayne County to exercise all of the power and authority heretofore vested by law in the judge of the probate court when sitting for county purposes, and delegated by law to the commissioners of roads and revenues of Wayne County, together with all power and authority which may hereafter be delegated by law to the governing authority of the county, by whatever name designated.
Sec. 19. - Reports of officers.
The board of commissioners is hereby empowered to require that any or all county officers make written or oral reports to them on the general or specific conduct of the affairs of their respective offices, and to adopt rules and regulations, not in conflict with the general laws of the state, concerning the conduct of such offices.
Sec. 20. - [County administrator's duties.]
It shall be the duty of the county administrator to appoint and remove all county department heads and employees, including a superintendent of roads and chief of county police, should a county police force be authorized, and to define the duties and fix the salaries of such county employees.
(1963 Ga. Laws, page 2301)
[Sec. 21. - Deleted.]
Section 21 was deleted by 1963 Ga. Laws, page 2301.
Sec. 22. - County attorney.
The board of commissioners shall have the right to appoint a county attorney and fix his compensation.
Sec. 23. - Budgets and appropriations.
The board of commissioners shall, annually, not later than the first regular meeting in March of each year, beginning with the year 1963, adopt a budget providing for the expenditure of all county funds, including capital outlays and public works, for the ensuing year. Prior to the adoption of said budget, the board shall hold one public meeting thereon, giving notice thereof at least ten days in advance by publication of such notice and of the proposed budget in the official gazette of Wayne County and by posting the same at the courthouse door. After its adoption, the budget shall constitute the board's appropriation of all funds for the year. The budget so adopted may be revised during the year only by formal action of the board in a regular meeting, and no increase shall be made in an appropriation without provision being made for financing the same.
Sec. 24. - Expenditures by allotments.
No expenditure of county funds shall be made except in accordance with the county budget, or amendments thereto, adopted by the board.
Sec. 25. - Audits.
The board shall, within 60 days from the approval of this Act and on or before January 31 annually thereafter, employ a certified public accountant for making an annual continuous audit of county finances and financial records of each and every department of the county. The accountant so employed shall be paid out of county funds, and shall perform a complete audit of the financial records of the county for the ensuing year, and shall report any irregularities found to exist. Each county officer shall exhibit his records to the auditor appointed by the board, in default of which the board shall have the power to issue an order requiring the production of such records and to punish for failure to do so. Any officer who shall fail or refuse to deliver such books to said auditor shall receive no compensation from county sources during such default. A copy of each annual audit shall be delivered by the clerk to the spring session of the Wayne County grand jury and a copy filed in the office of the clerk of Wayne Superior Court for public inspection.
Sec. 26. - System of records.
It shall be the duty of the board of commissioners to cause to be installed an adequate and sufficient system of maintaining financial records in each office of the county, and to require that the same be properly maintained by each county officer. Any county officer who shall fail or refuse to maintain adequate and sufficient records indicating all receipts and disbursements shall be guilty of malfeasance of office and removed from office, as provided by law.
Sec. 27. - County depositary.
The clerk of the board of commissioners is hereby designated as depositary for all funds belonging to Wayne County, collected from whatever source. It shall be the duty of each county officer collecting funds which belong to Wayne County to deposit the same with said clerk not later than the tenth day of the month following receipt of the same. It shall be the duty of the clerk to report any defaulting officers to the board of commissioners, whereupon, it shall be the duty of the board of commissioners to cite such defaulting officer, as provided by section 89-817 et seq., Georgia Code of 1933 [(see now O.C.G.A. § 45-8-19 et seq.)]. The board of commissioners shall adopt rules and regulations concerning the public funds maintained by said clerk.
