ARTICLE II. - COUNTY ADMINISTRATOR[3]

Footnotes:
--- (3) ---
Editor's note— Printed herein is 1962 Ga. Laws, page 1118, which provision added a new paragraph at the end of Ga. Const. art. XI, § I, ¶ V (1945). It was specifically continued in force and effect as part of the state constitution by 1987 Ga. Laws, page 3804. Amendments are indicated by parenthetical history notes following amended provisions. The absence of a history note indicates that the provision remains unchanged from the original. Obvious misspellings have been corrected without notation. For stylistic purposes, the same style of expression of numbers in text as appears in the Code of Ordinances has been used. A consistent scheme of capitalization has also been used. The title of the amendment has been omitted. Other additions for clarity are indicated by brackets.

[Sec. 1. - County administrator.]
There is hereby created the office of county administrator of Wayne County. It shall be the duty of the board of commissioners of Wayne County, as soon as possible after the ratification of this amendment, but not later than April 1, 1963, to appoint a person as county administrator. No member of the board shall be appointed county administrator or acting county administrator during the term of office for which he was elected, nor for a period of one year thereafter.
The county administrator shall be chosen by the board of commissioners solely upon the basis of his executive and administrative qualifications with special reference to his actual experience in, or knowledge of, accepted practices in respect to the duties of his office, as hereinafter set forth. His salary shall be fixed by the board of commissioners, and he shall be subject to removal at any time without notice or statement or proof of cause.
The county administrator shall be the chief executive officer of the County of Wayne and head of the administrative branch of the county government. He shall be responsible to the board for the proper administration of all affairs of the county, except as otherwise provided by law, and it shall be his duty:
(a)
To appoint and remove all officers and employees of the county which the commissioners have been heretofore empowered to appoint and discharge, except the county attorney, who shall be appointed by the board of commissioners;
(b)
To see that all rules and regulations adopted by the board of commissioners are enforced;
(c)
To exercise control over all departments or divisions of the county which the board of commissioners have heretofore exercised, or that may hereafter be created;
(d)
To attend all meetings of the board of commissioners, with the right to take part in the discussion, provided he shall have no vote before the board;
(e)
To prepare and submit to the board of commissioners the annual budget;
(f)
To keep the board of commissioners advised as to the financial condition and needs of the county;
(g)
To appoint and remove the clerk of the board and the assistant clerk, as well as the superintendent of roads, county police and all other officers and employees of the county, except as otherwise provided;
(h)
To fix the salaries of all officers and employees of the county, whom he has the right to appoint; and
(i)
To perform such other duties as may be required of him by the board of commissioners of Wayne County.
The board of commissioners shall have the right to require the county administrator to go before them at any time and make such report or reports as they deem necessary.
The board of commissioners may designate some qualified person to act as temporary county administrator in the absence of the county administrator, provided that no member of the board of commissioners shall be appointed as acting county administrator. While so engaged, the acting county administrator shall have all of the rights, duties and authority of the county administrator.
The county administrator shall devote his full time to his office, and shall hold no other office or employment while so engaged.
The county administrator shall be the purchasing agent for the county, by whom all purchases of supplies and all contracts therefor shall be made, and he shall countersign, with the clerk, all vouchers for the payment of the same under such rules and regulations as the board of commissioners may adopt, not inconsistent herewith. The board of commissioners shall adopt rules for regulating purchases made by the county, and the county administrator shall be governed thereby.
The county administrator shall be required to execute and deliver a good and sufficient surety bond payable to the board of commissioners, to be approved by [it], conditioned upon the faithful performance of his duties, the amount thereof to be determined by the board of commissioners.
