ARTICLE XV. - LABOR POOLS
FOOTNOTE(S):
--- (11) ---
State Law reference— Labor pools, O.C.G.A. § 34-10-1 et seq.
DIVISION 1. - GENERALLY

Sec. 30-851. - Definitions.
The following words, terms and phrases, when used in this article, shall have the meanings ascribed to them in this section, except where the context clearly indicates a different meaning:
Labor pool means and includes any business whose principal function is to maintain and employ a pool of unskilled manual laborers for the purpose of contracting with others to make such manpower available to them on a short-term assignment basis.
Short-term assignment of casual labor means a work assignment for a term of 40 hours or less involving work for which neither entity nor person contracting or arranging for temporary employees requires any of the following from such employees:
(1)
A professional or occupational license which requires for its issuance a demonstration of knowledge or proficiency and which is issued by the state or a political subdivision of the state;
(2)
A high school diploma or its equivalent;
(3)
Education beyond high school;
(4)
Vocational education; or
(5)
Demonstrated proficiency with a specified type of machinery.
Temporary help. This article does not apply to temporary help, which, for purposes of this article, means services that deal with supplying secretarial employees, clerical employees, skilled laborers, specialized assistants, or other positions requiring specialized or executive skills.
(Code 1977, § 14-6511)
Cross reference— Definitions generally, § 1-2.
Sec. 30-852. - Compliance with article provisions.
It shall be unlawful for any person to operate a labor pool without having first complied with the provisions of this article, including obtaining a license for the operation of a labor pool.
(Code 1977, § 14-6518)
Sec. 30-853. - Compliance with all applicable laws.
The labor pool must comply with all applicable provisions of state and federal law, which shall include but not be limited to the following provisions: Social Security Act, the Fair Labor Standards Act, Internal Revenue Code and state department of revenue laws, Occupational Safety and Health Act, Worker's Compensation, Unemployment Insurance, and the state law relating to labor pool regulation (O.C.G.A. § 34-10-1 et seq.). The law department shall verify compliance with the above laws.
(Code 1977, § 14-6519)
Sec. 30-854. - Records.
(a)
All labor pools shall be required to keep daily records. These records shall consist of the names of every person who was assigned a job for that particular day, the type of job assigned, the name and location of the contractor and the number of hours worked on that particular job. At the completion of that day's work, the worker will sign the worker's name next to the information listed in this subsection.
(b)
Any person engaged in the business of a labor pool who shall fail or refuse to keep books as provided in this section or who shall make false entries, or who shall fail to refuse to comply with an inspection and examination by any police officer shall be guilty of an offense.
(Code 1977, § 14-6516)
Sec. 30-855. - Pay stubs.
If a labor pool chooses to pay workers in cash, it must issue a duplicate receipt to such worker. If a labor pool chooses to pay workers by check, the labor pool must issue a pay stub to the worker. The receipt or pay stub must state the number of hours worked and the amount of pay per hour. Each receipt or pay stub issued to a worker must also specify any deductions from the worker's gross pay.
(Code 1977, § 14-6517)
Sec. 30-856. - Improper deductions from pay stub.
If the labor pool makes improper deductions from pay, the license review board can condition the continuing grant of the license upon the labor pool's making restitution to the affected workers within a time period so specified by the license review board.
(Code 1977, § 14-6522)
Sec. 30-857. - Deductions for equipment used by workers.
Any labor pool licensed under this article shall not charge workers any rental fee or any type of fee for supplying any type of equipment to be used by the worker in performing any work assignment.
(Code 1977, § 14-6520)
Sec. 30-858. - Deductions for transportation of workers to and from work site.
Any labor pool licensed under this article shall not charge workers any expense, fee or cost for transporting such workers to and from job sites.
(Code 1977, § 14-6521)
Sec. 30-859. - Display of state law.
Every labor pool must give notice of the provisions of O.C.G.A. tit. 34, ch. 10 (O.C.G.A. § 34-10-1 et seq.) and this article to all workers. The provisions of the state law must be posted in a conspicuous place.
(Code 1977, § 14-6528)
Secs. 30-860—30-870. - Reserved.
DIVISION 2. - LICENSE

Sec. 30-871. - Required.
It shall be unlawful for any person, natural or corporate, to operate a labor pool, as defined in section 30-851, without having obtained a license in compliance with the requirements as set forth in this article.
(Code 1977, § 14-6512)
Sec. 30-872. - Application.
All persons desiring to obtain a license to operate a labor pool service within the city shall make written application to the police department of the city for an appropriate investigation. The application shall be addressed to the mayor and city council and shall set forth the following information:
(1)
The full legal name of the applicant, including all aliases, nicknames, pseudonyms or trade names currently or heretofore used by the applicant.
(2)
The business and residence addresses of the applicant for the two years preceding the date of the application, including current address.
(3)
The business, occupation or employment of the applicant for three years immediately preceding the date of application.
(4)
A statement revealing whether the applicant has previously operated a labor pool, and if so, the name, address and current business status of such labor pool.
(5)
A statement whether the applicant is affiliated with any other labor pool in the city; for purposes of this subsection, "affiliated" shall mean having the status of a sole proprietor, employee, agent, partner, general or limited shareholder, director or officer.
(6)
The applicant's height, weight and color of eyes and hair.
(7)
Two current photographs of the applicant at least two inches by two inches in size.
(8)
All business license history of the applicant, which shall include information as to any revocation or suspension and reason for such action.
(9)
All convictions for violations of any law, and the grounds thereof, within the preceding five years, of the applicant, or any partners, agents, corporate officers, board members or any principal shareholders of the labor pool; the term "conviction" in this subsection shall include an adjudication of guilt, a plea of guilty, a plea of nolo contendere or the forfeiture of a bond.
(10)
The applicant shall be fingerprinted by the city, and such fingerprint card and record shall be attached as exhibits to the application.
(11)
If the applicant is a corporation or partnership, such corporation or partnership shall submit the information set out in subsections (1)—(10) of this section and exhibits with regard to each employee, agent, partners, general or limited.
(12)
If the applicant is a corporation, such corporation shall, in addition to the information set out in subsections (1)—(10) of this section, submit a complete list of the stockholders of said corporation, including names, current addresses and current occupations.
(13)
A copy of the applicant's financial statement for the most recently ended fiscal year, and state of incorporation, as well as the names and addresses of the agents and employees of such employees of such corporation for a period of two years immediately prior to the filing of such application.
(Code 1977, § 14-6513)
Sec. 30-873. - Fees.
(a)
The initial fee for all applicants seeking a labor pool license shall be $300.00. This fee shall be submitted with the application to the police department.
(b)
Upon approval of the application, the labor pool will pay a license fee of $1,500.00 per year to the police department. This fee shall be used to offset the regulatory cost to administer this article.
(Code 1977, § 14-6514)
Sec. 30-874. - Inspection; issuance, denial; term.
As soon as the application is submitted in proper form to the police department with the requested information and accompanied by the correct investigation fee, an inspection and investigation shall be conducted by the police and law department. If all requirements of all departments concerned as well as those qualifications set forth in this article are satisfied, the license shall be issued by the police department. If such application is denied, the application shall be submitted to the license review board, which shall conduct a hearing and report its conclusions and recommendations to the mayor. The mayor, upon receiving the recommendation of the license review board, may, within 60 calendar days of receipt of said recommendation, deny or grant an application for a new license. In addition, within said 60-day period, if the mayor determines there is a need to correct a clear error or prevent a manifest injustice, the mayor may remand the application or matter back to the license review board for further hearing. If the mayor fails to take action within the 60-day period, the recommendation of the license review board shall become the final decision of the mayor. All licenses issued pursuant to this article shall be valid for a period of one year.
(Code 1977, § 14-6515; Ord. No. 2008-79(08-O-1677), § 16, 11-6-08)
Sec. 30-875. - Expiration; cancellation.
Any license issued under this article shall expire 12 months from the date of issuance unless canceled by the police department for cause before expiration. Cancellation for cause shall consist of the conviction of the original applicant, any partners, corporate officers or board members of the labor pool for a felony or misdemeanor of any state or the United States or any municipal ordinance relative to alcohol or drug offenses and related matters.
(Code 1977, § 14-6523)
Sec. 30-876. - Revocation; hearing.
A violation of any of the provisions of this article by any person holding a license under the provisions of this article shall constitute grounds for revocation of the license issued pursuant thereto. A hearing shall be scheduled, and notice of such hearing must be sent to the holder of the license specifying the reasons for the possibility of revocation of the licenses. After the hearing, the disposition of the license shall be determined within the sole discretion of the mayor.
(Code 1977, § 14-6524)
Sec. 30-877. - Renewal.
Any license issued under this article must be renewed for each year succeeding the initial issuance. A renewal application shall be accompanied by a renewal fee of $1,500.00. A renewal license shall be issued by the police department if the applicant continues to meet all prerequisites for obtaining an initial license and no action to deny, suspend or revoke the existing license is pending against the applicant. The labor pool must rectify any noncompliance with the provisions of this section, if any, before the labor pool license is renewed.
(Code 1977, § 14-6525)
Sec. 30-878. - License not in lieu of business license.
The license issued under this article shall be cumulative and not in lieu of any business license issued by the city.
(Code 1977, § 14-6527)
Secs. 30-879—30-900. - Reserved.
