ARTICLE IX. - FOOD ESTABLISHMENTS

FOOTNOTE(S):
--- (7) ---
Cross reference— Health and sanitation, ch. 86.
Sec. 30-691. - License; health department approval required.
Any person desiring to open a restaurant or any establishment for the sale of food, sandwiches, cold drinks and other items of food for human consumption shall file an application for a license with the chief financial officer setting out the location selected and showing the general nature of the operation to be carried on. If the establishment to be licensed is located in Fulton County, the chief financial officer shall promptly notify the Fulton County health department of the application. If the establishment is located in DeKalb County, the chief financial officer shall notify the DeKalb County health department of the application. Upon receipt of information in writing from the appropriate health department that the premises where the proposed operation is to be carried on complies with the health and sanitation requirements of the law and rules applicable thereto, the chief financial officer shall forthwith issue to the applicant a license to operate the establishment upon receipt of the proper license fee for that operation.
(Code 1977, § 14-6141)
Sec. 30-692. - Permit required for private clubs, fraternal orders, similar organizations.
Any group, association, fraternal order, club or other organization, whether incorporated or not, which has a regular place of assembly in which food or beverages are served or sold and which place of assembly is locked or not open to the general public or is not open to inspection by the police, whether dues are assessed or membership rosters maintained, must before maintaining or operating the place of assembly obtain a permit from the mayor through application to the department of police and license review board. Application fees are $100.00 and are payable at the time of application. Annual/renewal fees for permits are set at $200.00.
(Code 1977, § 14-6142; Ord. No. 1999-20, § 1, 2-9-99)
Sec. 30-693. - Drive-in lighting standards.
(a)
Minimum standards. Every person conducting a business of dispensing or selling at retail food and beverages prepared for consumption and served to customers in parked automobiles or at other places other than within a building shall install, maintain and operate between sundown and the time of closing a sufficient number of luminaries to provide a level of illumination of one footcandle in the entire parking area and upon all places where automobiles are parked by patrons of the establishment or where food or beverages may be served.
(b)
Approval of installation required. Before any installation of wiring or lighting equipment as required by this section shall be installed, the owner or operator of the business shall submit detailed plans and specifications covering all wiring and installations contemplated to the chief electrical inspector for such inspector's approval or disapproval, and no such installation shall be made until the plans and specifications therefor have been so approved and a permit issued.
(c)
Enforcement. The department of police shall enforce this section.
(d)
Effect of violation. Any person failing to comply with this section shall be served with a notice in writing to appear before the license review board at a time stated to show cause why the permit to engage in any of the businesses referred to in this section should not be revoked.
(e)
Penalties. Any person engaged in any business referred to in this section who shall fail to comply with this section shall be subject to the suspension or revocation of the permit.
(Code 1977, § 14-6143)
Secs. 30-694—30-715. - Reserved.
