Chapter 30 - CIVIL EMERGENCIES[1]
Footnotes:
--- (1) ---
Charter reference— Powers and duties of planning commission, § 79.
Cross reference— Administration, ch. 2; fire prevention and protection, ch. 46.
State Law reference— Offenses against public order and safety, O.C.G.A. § 16-11-1 et seq.; administration of municipal government, O.C.G.A. § 36-34-2; state militia, O.C.G.A § 38-2-1 et seq.; emergency management, O.C.G.A. § 38-3-1 et seq.; calling out state militia during insurrection or invasion, O.C.G.A. § 45-12-28; emergency funds for local government, O.C.G.A. § 50-8-8.

ARTICLE I. - IN GENERAL

Sec. 30-1. - National Incident Management System adoption.
The city hereby adopts to National Incident Management System (NIMS) as established under HSPD 5 and the Unified Command System and established under O.C.G.A. § 38-5-57 as its system of preparing for and responding to disaster incidents and directs all incident managers and response organizations in the city train and exercise and use these systems in their response operations.
(Ord. No. O-0510-038, 10-11-2005)
Secs. 30-2—30-30. - Reserved.
ARTICLE II. - EMERGENCY MANAGEMENT

Sec. 30-31. - Definitions.
The following words, terms and phrases, when used in this article, shall have the meanings ascribed to them in this section, except where the context clearly indicates a different meaning:
Emergency management means the preparation for the carrying out of all emergency functions other than functions for which military forces are primarily responsible to prevent, minimize, and repair injury and damage resulting from emergencies, energy emergencies disasters, or the imminent threat thereof, of manmade or natural origin caused by enemy attack, sabotage, civil disturbance, fire, flood, earthquake, wind, storm, wave action, oil spill or other water contamination requiring emergency action to avert danger or damage, epidemic air contamination, blight, drought, infestation, explosion, riot or other hostile action, or other causes. These functions include, without limitation, firefighting services; police services; medical and health services; rescue; engineering; warning services; communications; defense from radiological, chemical, and other special weapons; evacuation of persons from stricken areas; emergency welfare services; emergency transportation; plant protection; temporary restoration of public utility services; and other functions related to civilian protection, together with all other activities necessary or incidental to the preparation for and carrying out of the foregoing functions.
Energy emergency means a condition of danger to the health, safety, welfare, or economic well-being of the citizens of this state arising out of a present or threatened shortage of usable energy resources; also any condition of substantial danger to the health, safety, or welfare of the citizens of this state resulting from the operation of any electrical power-generating facility, the transport of any energy resource by any means whatsoever, or the production, use or disposal of any source material, special nuclear material, or byproduct, as defined by the Atomic Energy Act of 1954, 68 Stat. 919, 42 USC 2011, et seq.; also any nuclear incident, as defined by the Atomic Energy Act of 1954, occurring within or outside this state, substantially affecting the health, safety, or welfare of the citizens of this state.
Energy resources means all forms of energy or power including, without limitation, oil, gasoline, and other petroleum products; natural or synthetic gas; electricity in all forms and from all sources; and other fuels of any description, except wood.
(Code 1986, § 7-1; Ord. of 6-9-1987, § A(I))
Cross reference— Definitions generally, § 1-2.
State Law reference— Definitions, O.C.G.A. § 38-3-3.
Sec. 30-32. - Office of the emergency management director/coordinator.
In agreement with the governing officials of Baldwin County, there is hereby established the Milledgeville-Baldwin County Emergency Management Agency. The mayor, with concurrence of county officials, shall nominate for appointment by the governor a director/coordinator of emergency management for Milledgeville-Baldwin County. When appointed, the emergency management director/coordinator is charged with the following duties to:
(1)
Represent the governing officials of the city on matters pertaining to emergency management;
(2)
Assist city officials in organizing city departments for emergency operations;
(3)
Develop, in conjunction with county and city departments and agencies, the city plan for emergency functions set forth in section 30-31. Such plan will be in consonance with the state natural disaster operations plan and nuclear emergency operations plan and shall be submitted to the governing officials of Milledgeville and Baldwin County and thence to the state emergency management agency for approval;
(4)
Maintain the emergency management office and carry out the administration of the city emergency management program, including the submission of required reports to the state emergency management agency;
(5)
Submit reports as required by governing officials in keeping with good management practices, e.g., financial, daily activity, etc.;
(6)
Procure, with the authority of governing officials, a facility to be used as the city emergency operations center; and
(7)
Coordinate the activities of the Milledgeville-Baldwin County emergency operations center staff during periods of a declared emergency and under the supervision of Milledgeville-Baldwin County governing officials.
(Code 1986, § 7-2)
Sec. 30-33. - Organization.
The Milledgeville-Baldwin County Emergency Management Organization shall be established around existing city and county departments and agencies, and with concurrence of the county, the emergency functions listed in section 7-1 are assigned as follows:
EXPAND
Department Emergency Functions
Baldwin County Board of Commissioners and mayor of Milledgeville Direction and control
County clerk Administrative services
Public information officer, Georgia College Public information
Milledgeville Chief of Police and Baldwin County Sheriff Communications/warning
Search, rescue, recovery
Evacuation
Police services
Baldwin County Fire Department and Milledgeville Fire Department Fire control
Hazardous materials control
Baldwin County Superintendent of Schools Transportation services
Food services
Baldwin County Roads Department Engineering
Petroleum and solid fuel
Chief, Medical Services, Baldwin County Hospital Health and medical services
Baldwin County Department of Family and Children Services Social services
Milledgeville-Baldwin County Emergency Management Agency Utilities
Radiological protection
State military support
Training
Shelter and temporary housing
Damage assessment and reporting
Public property assistance
Attack preparedness
Resources management
  Heads of departments listed in this section are responsible for developing the plan for their assigned emergency function. Such plans will be submitted through the emergency management director/coordinator to the mayor and governing officials for approval.
(Code 1986, § 7-3)
Sec. 30-34. - Emergency powers.
(a)
In the event of a manmade or natural disaster, actual enemy attack upon the United States, or any other emergency which may affect the lives and property of the citizens of Milledgeville, the mayor and other governing officials may declare that a state of emergency exists and thereafter shall have and may exercise, for such period as such state of emergency exists or continues, the following emergency powers to:
(1)
Enforce all rules, laws and regulations relating to emergency management and to assume direct operational control over all emergency management resources;
(2)
Seize, take for temporary use, or condemn any private property for the protection of the public;
(3)
Sell, lend, give or distribute all or any such property or supplies among the inhabitants of the city and maintain a strict accounting of property or supplies distributed and for funds received for such property or supplies;
(4)
Perform and exercise such other functions and duties and take such emergency actions as may be necessary to promote and secure the safety, protection and well-being of the inhabitants of the city.
(b)
This section is independent of section 2-33 and is not subject to the limitations stated in that section.
(Code 1986, § 7-4)
Sec. 30-35. - Volunteers.
All persons, other than officers and employees of the city, performing emergency functions pursuant to this chapter, shall serve with or without compensation. While engaged in such emergency functions, duly assigned volunteers shall have the same immunities as city officers and employees.
(Code 1986, § 7-5)
State Law reference— Grants of immunity, O.C.G.A. §§ 38-3-32, 38-3-33, 38-3-35.
Sec. 30-36. - Penalties.
Any person violating any provision of this chapter or any rule, order or regulation made pursuant to this chapter, shall upon conviction thereof, be punishable for a misdemeanor.
(Code 1986, § 7-6)
Sec. 30-37. - Liberality of construction.
This chapter shall be construed liberally in order to effectuate its purpose.
(Code 1986, § 7-7)
State Law reference— Construction of emergency management law, O.C.G.A. § 38-3-6.
