Chapter 78 - STREETS, SIDEWALKS AND OTHER PUBLIC PLACES[1]
Footnotes:
--- (1) ---
Charter reference— Streets and sidewalks generally, § 7; removal of obstructions, § 8; city owned property, § 66 et seq.; eminent domain, § 68; street improvements, § 69; public utilities, § 70; planning and zoning, § 77 et seq.
Cross reference— Any ordinance dedicating, naming, establishing, locating, relocating, opening, closing, paving, widening, vacating, etc., any street or public way in the city saved from repeal, § 1-7(6); any establishing or prescribing the street grades of any street in the city saved from repeal, § 1-7(7); any ordinance providing for local improvements or making assessments therefor saved from repeal, § 1-7(8); cemeteries, ch. 26; environment, ch. 42; floods, ch. 50; planning, ch. 66; traffic and vehicles, ch. 86; utilities, ch. 90; vehicles for hire, ch. 94; zoning, app. A.
State Constitution reference— Outdoor advertising devices adjacent to certain highways, Ga. Const. art. III, § VI, ¶ II(a)(6).
State Law reference— Obstruction of streets, sidewalks, etc., O.C.G.A. §§ 16-11-43, 32-6-1, 36-30-10; eminent domain, O.C.G.A. tit. 22; highways, bridges and ferries, O.C.G.A. tit. 32; municipal street systems, O.C.G.A. § 32-4-90 et seq.; outdoor advertising adjacent to certain highways, O.C.G.A. § 32-6-70 et seq.; streets and sidewalks generally, O.C.G.A. § 36-34-3; street improvements, O.C.G.A. § 36-39-1 et seq.; bonds for public contractors, O.C.G.A. § 36-82-100 et seq.; bonds for nonresident contractors, O.C.G.A. § 48-13-32.

ARTICLE I. - IN GENERAL

Sec. 78-1. - Driving upon streets, sidewalks, alleys closed to traffic.
(a)
It shall be unlawful for any person to drive a motor vehicle, wagon or other conveyance over and upon the streets, sidewalks and alleys of the city while the streets, sidewalks and alleys are being paved, repaired or constructed, or where sewer or water connections are being made, where such street, sidewalk or alley has been closed to traffic.
(b)
Where a street has been closed to traffic for any purpose, it shall be unlawful for any person to drive a motor vehicle, wagon or other conveyance over and upon the sidewalks of the street so closed to traffic.
(Code 1986, § 16-1)
Sec. 78-2. - Lights on excavations.
At the place of every excavation in the streets or sidewalks there shall be placed red lights at night, by the person having such excavations.
(Code 1986, § 16-2)
Sec. 78-3. - Interference with barricades.
Where signs, lights, or obstructions have been placed in the streets of the city for the purpose of directing traffic or closing streets to traffic, it shall be unlawful for any person to remove, injure or destroy the signs, lights or obstructions.
(Code 1986, § 16-3)
Sec. 78-4. - Encroachment on sidewalk.
It shall be unlawful for any person to encroach upon any sidewalk in the city by constructing or erecting upon any sidewalk any building or part thereof, any cellar, cellar door, or part thereof.
(Code 1986, § 16-4)
Sec. 78-5. - Use of sidewalks by merchants for display purposes.
Merchants shall be allowed to utilize three feet of space on the sidewalk extending from the building and the entire width of their building in front for displaying merchandise.
(Code 1986, § 16-5)
Cross reference— Businesses, ch. 22.
Sec. 78-6. - View at intersections.
The city may move any shrub or other obstacle on city property deemed to be a traffic hazard.
(Code 1986, § 16-6)
Sec. 78-7. - Washing vehicles; allowing wastes to run upon sidewalks.
It shall be unlawful for any person to wash or clean any automobile or other motor vehicle in the streets, sidewalks or public alleys of the city, and it shall be unlawful for any person to wash or clean any automobile or other motor vehicle in such close proximity to the sidewalks of the city that the water, grease, or oil used or wasted in such washing or cleaning shall run on, upon, or across the sidewalks.
(Code 1986, § 16-7)
Sec. 78-8. - House numbers required.
Every residence, storehouse, shop, and other places of business within the corporate limits of the city shall be numbered as provided by the building official.
(Code 1986, § 16-8)
Cross reference— Buildings and building regulations, ch. 18.
Secs. 78-9—78-40. - Reserved.
ARTICLE II. - STREET CUTS

Sec. 78-41. - Definitions.
The following words, terms and phrases, when used in this article, shall have the meanings ascribed to them in this section, except where the context clearly indicates a different meaning:
Public utility company means a corporation under the jurisdiction of the Georgia Public Service Commission which holds a franchise from the city.
Street means any area designated by the city as a public street, either owned by the city or dedicated by private persons and designated as a street.
(Code 1986, § 16-21)
Cross reference— Definitions generally, § 1-2.
Sec. 78-42. - Disturbing surface or subsurface of streets.
No person shall dig or excavate in any street within the city or install anything under the surface of such street, or do any work which requires the removal or breaking of the surface or subsurface of any street except as specifically authorized by this article.
(Code 1986, § 16-22)
Sec. 78-43. - Water excavations, installations, repairs.
(a)
The city shall have exclusive control and management of all water lines lying within the streets in the city and shall install, repair and maintain all of such lines and perform all necessary excavations, cuts, refilling and repaving connected with the installation and maintenance of such lines. No private person shall interfere with any water line within the city streets or disturb the surface or subsurface of such streets for the purpose of gaining access to such lines.
(b)
The city shall alter, extend or stub-out water lines so as to make them available to any property within the city and shall perform all necessary excavations, cuts, refilling and repaving connected with the installation of such lines provided that the following conditions are met:
(1)
The property owner, or a duly licensed plumber acting on his behalf, shall at a time not less than 48 hours prior to the commencement of the work applied for, file with the building official a written application, setting forth the need for such water service, the location of the property to be served, a sketch showing the relative locations of existing water and sewerage lines, and any paved street surface which must be disturbed in gaining access to such line.
(2)
Such property owner, or a duly licensed plumber acting on his behalf, shall pay to the city at the time of the application the applicable fee.
(3)
All work on water lines shall be performed by the city within the right-of-way lines of the streets, and it shall be the responsibility of the respective property owner to install and maintain all lines on his property in accordance with the city plumbing code.
(4)
The city shall not be obligated to alter, extend or stub-out any water lines if in the opinion of the city engineer such lines would overload or otherwise damage existing water and sewerage mains or lines, would be in violation of the city plumbing code, or would otherwise not be in the best interest of the city property and the health and well being of its citizens.
(Code 1986, § 16-23)
Editor's note— The city's utility fees are on file in the office of the city clerk and treasurer.
Sec. 78-44. - Sewer excavations, installations and repairs.
(a)
Persons desiring to disturb the surface or subsurface of streets for the purpose of gaining access to sewer lines may do so upon compliance with the terms of this section.
(b)
A person may obtain a permit to disturb the surface or subsurface of the streets for the purpose of gaining access to sewer lines upon meeting the following conditions:
(1)
The applicant shall, at a time not less than 48 hours prior to the commencement of the work applied for, file with the building official a written application setting forth the character and location of such work to be done, the probable number of cubic yards of dirt to be removed, and the probable date of beginning and the completion of the work.
(2)
The applicant shall, at the time of application, demonstrate to the satisfaction of the building official proof of a liability insurance policy in force during the period of the permit applied for, naming the city as beneficiary, and conditioned to pay on behalf of the city all sums which the city shall become legally obligated to pay as damages because of excavation or other work covered by such permit. Such liability policy shall have limits of liability of no less than $50,000.00 for property damage and $100,000.00 for personal injury.
(3)
Permits under this section shall specify the location of the work to be done, the purpose of the work, the type and extent of excavation to be performed, the time allowed for full performance of the work and shall be signed by the city engineer.
(4)
All permits issued by the city shall become void after the expiration of the allotted time designated in the permit, unless an extension is granted by the city engineer in writing.
(5)
The applicant shall cut only such pavement as is necessary to the excavation applied for, and such cutting is to be done in straight, neat lines, with a saw, and so as to leave the edges of pavement vertical and square with the surface down to subgrade.
(6)
No job in the city streets shall be begun by the applicant pursuant to the provisions of this article between the hours of 12:00 noon on Fridays and 9:00 a.m. on Mondays of each week, except in cases of extreme emergency.
(7)
It shall be the duty of applicant to give written notice to the city engineer immediately upon completion of the work authorized by such permit. The applicant shall not refill or repave the excavation but shall guard it with sufficient barricades and flambeaus, flares, or lights until the city completes the refilling and repaving of the excavation.
(8)
All applicants under this section shall be plumbers, duly licensed to do business within the city.
(9)
Upon completing the refilling and repaving of each excavation the city engineer shall bill the applicant for the cost of such refilling and repaving, and the applicant shall be liable for such cost upon receipt of such bill.
(10)
No permit shall be issued by the city engineer to any person who is indebted to the city for work already done in repairing excavated streets and pavements, until such person shall have discharged in full all such indebtedness.
(11)
No excavation shall remain open for a period greater than eight hours, unless specifically authorized in writing by the city engineer in accordance with uniform city standards.
(Code 1986, § 16-24)
Sec. 78-45. - Street excavation by public utility company.
(a)
A public utility company desiring to disturb the surface or subsurface of streets for the purpose of gaining access to its own main, conduit or utility may do so upon compliance with the terms of this section.
(b)
The public utility company shall, at a time not less than 48 hours prior to the commencement of the work applied for, file with the building official a written application setting forth the character and location of such work to be done and the probable date of beginning and the completion of the work provided; however, in the event of any emergency in which a main, conduit or utility in or under any street breaks, bursts, or otherwise is in such condition as to immediately endanger the property, life, health or safety of any individual, the person owning or controlling such main, conduit or utility, without first applying for and obtaining an excavation permit under this article, shall immediately take proper emergency measures to cure or remedy the dangerous conditions for the protection of property, life, health and safety of individuals. However, such person owning or controlling such facility shall apply for an excavation permit not later than the end of the next succeeding day during which the city engineer's office is open for business.
(c)
Permits under this section shall specify the location of the work to be done, the purpose of the work, the type and extent of excavation to be performed, and the time allowed for full performance of the work and shall be signed by the city engineer.
(d)
All permits issued by the city shall become void after the expiration of the allotted time designated in the permit, unless an extension is granted by the city engineer in writing.
(e)
No job in the city streets shall be begun by any person pursuant to the provisions of this section between the hours of 12:00 noon on Fridays and 9:00 a.m. on Mondays of each week, except in cases of extreme emergency.
(f)
It shall be the duty of the applicant to refill such excavation according to the following specifications:
(1)
Where the material taken from the trench is not satisfactory to the city engineer, suitable material, meeting the approval of the engineer, shall be procured, placed and compacted as provided in these specifications.
(2)
Backfills shall be built up in layers and each layer shall be thoroughly compacted before beginning another layer. Layers may be three feet in depth if compaction is performed by a hydro hammer of design approved by the engineer. Whenever compaction by hand is done, it shall be in layers of not more than four inches in depth per layer, and the number of persons backfilling shall not exceed the number of persons ramming; the size and weight of the rams shall be approved by the engineer. Puddling will not be permitted, nor will frozen or wet material be placed in trenches.
(3)
After compaction, the dry weight per cubic foot of any six-inch depth of backfill shall be at least 95 percent of the maximum laboratory dry weight per cubic foot as determined by American Association of State Highway Officials Method T-99.
(g)
It shall be the duty of the applicant to give written notice to the city engineer immediately upon completion of each backfill.
(1)
The applicant shall not repave the surface of the street but the city shall do so and bill the company monthly for all repaving costs; provided, however, the applicant may repave the excavation if requested in writing to do so by the city engineer.
(h)
Applicant shall guard the excavation with necessary barricades, flambeaus, flares or lights until such time as traffic may be reasonably permitted thereon.
(i)
By the acceptance of each permit the applicants under this section shall agree to save and keep harmless the city from any and all liability by reason of damage or injury to any persons or property whatsoever, on account of negligence of the applicant, its contractors or agents, in performing the work pursuant to such permit, provided the applicant shall have been notified in writing of any claim against the city on account thereof and shall have been given ample opportunity to defend the claim.
(j)
No excavation shall remain open for a period greater than eight hours, unless specifically authorized in writing by the city engineer.
(Code 1986, § 16-25)
Secs. 78-46—78-80. - Reserved.
ARTICLE III. - UTILITY SYSTEMS GENERALLY[2]

Footnotes:
--- (2) ---
Charter reference— Authority of council as to public utilities, § 70.
Cross reference— Utilities, ch. 90.

Sec. 78-81. - Application of article.
(a)
This article and the regulations by it provided shall not have application to any single service connection extended, installed or otherwise made by any public utility unless the completion of such single service connection shall require the cutting or breaking of more than one square yard of surface area of any paved street, walkway, driveway or sidewalk in the city.
(b)
All rights relating to the use of the streets, sidewalks, parkways, lanes and alleys of the city by or under any franchise granted by the city shall be deemed to be regulated by this article in the public interest.
(Code 1986, § 16-41)
Sec. 78-82. - Approval required for installation of facilities for public utility upon public property.
No line, pole, tower, wire, cable, conduit, piping or tubing, whether to be located and installed at ground level, overhead, or underground, and whether the same is an extension of any existing facility, an addition thereto, or a renewal, or a replacement thereof, forming or to form any part of the distribution or service system of any public utility, shall be located, placed, installed, or erected in, on, upon, over, across or under any of the streets, sidewalks, parkways, lanes or alleys in the city until and unless the owner or a qualified representative of the owner of the projected or proposed line or other facility shall have first obtained the written approval of and consent for the whole of the same from the city by and through its designated city engineer.
(Code 1986, § 16-42)
Sec. 78-83. - Restoration of street cuts, sod, involved in construction.
Should any proposal or project under this article include any work the execution of which shall require the cutting or breaking of any sidewalk, driveway, walkway or street paving, or the removal of any grass sod, in any of the streets, sidewalks, parkways, lanes or alleys in the city, the proposal or project shall not be approved and the execution thereof shall not be commenced until evidence satisfactory to the city engineer shall be submitted that the person applying for such consent and approval is ready, able and willing to immediately restore the surface of the area to be affected by such work to its appearance and condition existing prior to the doing of the work.
(Code 1986, § 16-43)
Sec. 78-84. - Liability of persons involved in construction.
(a)
Any person who shall as an individual, officer, agent, contractor, workman, employee, or otherwise, do any of the acts or things specified in sections 16-42 and 16-43, or aid or take part in the doing of any of the same without the consent for and approval of such work having been first obtained in writing from the designated engineer of the city, shall be deemed in violation of this article.
(b)
Every person, including owners, contractors, agents, firms, corporations, associations, servants, officers and employees who shall violate any of the provisions of this article and perform work at, about or upon, or otherwise take part in the performance of any work or project described in this article, for which no approval has been made in writing by the designated engineer of such city, shall be deemed in violation of this article.
(Code 1986, § 16-44)
Secs. 78-85—78-120. - Reserved.
ARTICLE IV. - PARADES[3]

Footnotes:
--- (3) ---
Cross reference— Traffic and vehicles, ch. 86.

Sec. 78-121. - Definitions.
The following words, terms and phrases, when used in this article, shall have the meanings ascribed to them in this section, except where the context clearly indicates a different meaning:
Assembly means a crowd or more than ten persons standing, congregated or assembled upon any sidewalks, streets or other public property in the city.
Demonstration and picketing shall be given their usual meaning, considering the context in which they are used in this article.
Parade means any procession, excepting funerals, containing 25 or more persons or five or more vehicles.
(Code 1986, § 14-18)
Cross reference— Definitions generally, § 1-2.
Sec. 78-122. - Parade, assembly and demonstration—Permit.
(a)
Any person desiring to stage a parade, demonstration or assembly, or engage in picketing, shall make application for a permit to the city not later than 4:00 p.m. on the day prior to the day that such proposed activity is intended to be staged or carried out. Such application shall be filed with the clerk and treasurer, who shall forward the application to the chief of police. Such permit shall be granted by the chief of police, but the chief of police shall be empowered to determine and reasonably restrict the time and duration of the proposed activity, the number of units or automobiles to be involved, the number of persons to participate in such activity, and the streets or locations where such activity shall be allowed, so as not to impair the safety and convenience of the public generally, after giving due consideration to the permit. In the absence of the chief of police, such duties and powers hereby delegated to the chief of police may be performed by the mayor or the city marshal.
(b)
An application and permit shall be required for each such activity; provided, however, only one application and permit shall be required for each proposed parade, demonstration, assembly, or picketing site and course of picketing.
(c)
All such activities shall be conducted under the supervision of the person making application for the permit, and shall be conducted in a peaceable and orderly manner in compliance with the laws and ordinances applicable thereto.
(d)
In the conduct of such activities, no signs, shields or banners shall be placed or carried by any person upon the sidewalks of this city that extend beyond the width of the person's body or extend more than 24 inches above the person's head; and persons carrying any such signs, shields or banners shall be at least ten feet apart, shall not stand or loiter in front of any doorway, driveway or street intersection, and shall not interfere with the general flow of traffic, whether pedestrian or vehicular.
(Code 1986, § 14-19)
State Law reference— Labor organizations and labor relations, O.C.G.A. § 34-6-1 et seq.; operation of motor vehicles in parades, O.C.G.A. § 40-6-7.
Sec. 78-123. - Same—Penalty.
Any person parading, holding demonstrations, picketing or assembling without first acquiring a permit as required by section 78-122 or any person violating any of the provisions of such section shall be guilty of a misdemeanor.
(Code 1986, § 14-20)
