Chapter 54 - HEALTH AND SANITATION[1]
Footnotes:
--- (1) ---
Charter reference— Power of city to remove garbage, trash, filth, nuisances, § 7; board of health, § 22; licensing, § 60 et seq.; powers and duties of planning commission, § 79.
Cross reference— Animals, ch. 14; buildings and building regulations, ch. 18; environment, ch. 42; floods, ch. 50; solid waste, ch. 74; utilities, ch. 90.
State Constitution reference— Municipal ambulance and emergency rescue services, Ga. Const. art. IX, § II, ¶ III.
State Law reference— Health, O.C.G.A. tit. 31.

ARTICLE I. - IN GENERAL

Secs. 54-1—54-30. - Reserved.
ARTICLE II. - HEALTH HAZARDS

Sec. 54-31. - Prohibited storage of property.
All nonfunctioning motor vehicles, appliances, machinery and equipment stored, kept or maintained out of doors within the city are declared to be a public health hazard, and the placing, keeping or maintaining of any nonfunctioning motor vehicle, appliance, machinery or equipment on any property out of doors within the corporate limits of the city shall be a violation of this chapter.
(Code 1986, § 10-16)
State Law reference— Abandoned motor vehicles, O.C.G.A. § 40-11-1 et seq.
Sec. 54-32. - Exceptions.
This article shall not apply to any motor vehicle, kept, stored or maintained upon private property, which has a current up-to-date motor vehicle license tag thereon, nor shall it apply to any vehicles, appliances or equipment kept and maintained in connection with or as a part of any duly licensed appliance, machinery or automobile repair shop or junkyard.
(Code 1986, § 10-17)
Sec. 54-33. - Administration; notice of violation; appeal.
(a)
This article shall be administered by the city marshal, and if and whenever it shall appear to the city marshal that it is being violated, he shall, in writing, notify the owner of the property or the tenant in possession of the land on which the violation exists to abate such violation by removing the material or materials to a conforming location or into some enclosed garage or other storage house, within ten days from the date of such notice.
(b)
Any person disagreeing with such notice shall have ten days from the date of the notice in which to appeal the decision of the city marshal to the council, requesting that the council make a determination as to whether or not a violation actually exists, which appeal shall be heard after due notice and as soon as practical, and the decision of the council shall be final.
(c)
Any person who fails to comply with the notice given by the city marshal in compliance with this section within the ten days after the notice is given or within ten days after the final decision is made by the council (in cases where appeals are filed), shall be in violation of this section.
(Code 1986, § 10-18)
Sec. 54-34. - Removal of nonfunctioning vehicles, appliances, machinery or equipment.
(a)
After the time provided in section 54-33 for the removal of nonfunctioning motor vehicles, appliances, machinery or equipment has expired, the city marshal is directed to remove such property from the premises and dispose of the same and charge the expense thereof to the owner.
(b)
The city marshal is also directed to remove any abandoned or nonfunctioning motor vehicles, appliances, machinery or equipment from any public street in the city, the expense of which shall likewise be charged to the owner.
(Code 1986, § 10-19)
Secs. 54-35—54-70. - Reserved.
ARTICLE III. - FOOD[2]
Footnotes:
--- (2) ---
Cross reference— Businesses, ch. 22.

DIVISION 1. - GENERALLY

Secs. 54-71—54-90. - Reserved.
DIVISION 2. - FOOD SERVICE ESTABLISHMENTS

Sec. 54-91. - State rules—Adopted.
The latest edition of the rules and regulations of the state department of human resources pertaining to food service establishments shall apply to all food service establishments operated within the city.
(Code 1986, § 10-31)
Sec. 54-92. - Same—Violations.
Should it be determined that any food service establishment is in violation of the rules and regulations of the state department of human resources pertaining to food service establishments, which are adopted in this article as the rules and regulations of the council, ten-days' written notice specifying the violations complained of shall be given by the county board of health or its agents, or by the city marshal, and if after ten days from such written notice the violations complained of are not corrected, the same shall be a violation of this article.
(Code 1986, § 10-32)
Secs. 54-93—54-120. - Reserved.
DIVISION 3. - LICENSE

Sec. 54-121. - Required.
No person shall operate a food service establishment within the city without having first obtained a license, as required by this article, or after the license has been revoked by the council as provided in this division.
(Code 1986, § 10-46)
Sec. 54-122. - Issuance generally.
No new licenses shall be issued nor any licenses be renewed annually, as required by this article, without an application setting forth the location of the business, together with the name and address of the owner of the business, and in addition thereto a statement of the county board of health or its agents, recommending that the license be issued, together with the license fee or tax required by Chapter 22.
(Code 1986, § 10-47)
Sec. 54-123. - Filing application.
The application for a new business under this article shall be filed and the license issued prior to the time that the business is actually open for business, and all renewal licenses shall be filed and approved prior to March 1 of each year.
(Code 1986, § 10-48)
Sec. 54-124. - Revocation.
Should it be determined that any person has violated the provisions of this article and is wilfully continuing to violate the provisions of this article, the city marshal may cite such person requiring him to appear before the council to show cause why the license issued to such person should not be revoked, which hearing shall be held at the time and place specified in such notice, at which time the council shall cancel the license in question if the charges are found to be true and justify the cancellation.
(Code 1986, § 10-49)
