Chapter 82 - TAXATION[1]
Footnotes:
--- (1) ---
Charter reference— Taxation, § 49 et seq.
Cross reference— Administration, ch. 2; finance, § 2-131 et seq.; possession of fully tax paid alcoholic beverages, § 6-3; case tax on distilled spirits, § 6-114; excise tax on sales of alcoholic beverages by the drink, § 6-261 et seq.; business license tax for financial institution, § 22-32; gross premium tax imposed on life insurance companies, § 22-74; gross premium tax on all other insurers, § 22-75.
State Constitution reference— Taxation power of municipal governments, Ga. Const. art. IX, § IV; development authorities, Ga. Const. art. IX, § VI, ¶ III.
State Law reference— Revenue and taxation, O.C.G.A. tit. 48; development authorities, O.C.G.A. §§ 36-62-1 et seq., 48-5-350.

ARTICLE I. - IN GENERAL

Sec. 82-1. - Sales and use tax.
A combination city-county local sales and use tax at the rate of one percent is hereby levied.
(Code 1986, § 17-1)
State Law reference— Joint county and municipal sales and use tax, O.C.G.A. § 48-8-80 et seq.
Secs. 82-2—82-30. - Reserved.
ARTICLE II. - HOTEL-MOTEL EXCISE TAX[2]

Footnotes:
--- (2) ---
State Law reference— Excise tax on rooms, lodgings and accommodation, O.C.G.A. § 48-13-50 et seq.

Sec. 82-31. - Definitions.
The following words, terms and phrases, when used in this article, shall have the meanings ascribed to them in this section, except when the context clearly indicates a contrary meaning:
Due date means from the 20th day after the close of the monthly period for which tax is to be computed.
Guest room means a room occupied, or intended, arranged, or designed for occupancy, by one or more occupants for the purpose of living quarters or residential use.
Hotel means a hotel, motel, inn, lodge, tourist camp, tourist cabin, or any other place in which rooms, lodgings, or accommodations are regularly furnished for value.
Occupancy means the use or possession, or the right to the use or possession, of the furnishings or to the services and accommodations accompanying the use and possession of the room.
Occupant means any person who, for a consideration, uses, possesses, or has the right to use or possess any room in a hotel under any lease, concession, permit, right of access, license, or use, or other agreement, or otherwise.
Operator means any person operating a hotel in this city including, but not limited to, the owner or proprietor of such premises, the lessee, sublessee lender in possession, licensee, or any other person otherwise operating such hotel.
Permanent resident means any occupant as of a given date who has or shall have occupied or has or shall have the right of occupancy of any guest room in a hotel for more than ten consecutive days, or for five or more consecutive days if the occupant is a Georgia state or local government official or employee when traveling on official business.
Person means an individual, firm, partnership, joint venture, association, social club, fraternal organization, joint-stock company, corporation, nonprofit corporation or cooperative nonprofit membership, estate, trust, business trust, receiver, trustee, syndicate, or any other group or combination acting as a unit, excepting the United States of America and any political subdivision thereof upon which the city is without power to impose the tax provided in this chapter.
Rent means the consideration received for occupancy valued in money, whether received in money or otherwise, including all receipts, cash, credits and property or services of any kind or nature, and also the amount for which credit is allowed by the operator to the occupant, without any deduction therefrom whatsoever.
Return means any return filed or required to be filed as provided in this article.
(Code 1986, § 17-16)
Cross reference— Definitions generally, § 1-2.
Sec. 82-32. - Violations.
Any operator or other person who fails to register as required in this article, or who fails to furnish any return required to be made, or who fails or refuses to furnish a supplemental return or other data required by the clerk and treasurer, or who renders a false or fraudulent return, shall be deemed guilty of an offense.
(Code 1986, § 17-17)
Sec. 82-33. - Administration; enforcement.
The clerk and treasurer shall administer and enforce the provisions of this article for the collection of the tax imposed by this article, and in so doing shall have the following powers to:
(1)
Examine, or authorize the examination of, the books, papers, records, financial reports, equipment, and other facilities of any operator renting guest rooms to persons subject to the tax, in order to verify the accuracy of any return made, or if no return is made by the operator, to ascertain and determine the amount required to be paid;
(2)
Require the filing of reports by any person or persons having in his or their possession or custody information relating to rentals of guest rooms which are subject to the tax levied in this article; and
(3)
Allow a credit on any amount due and payable from persons who paid the tax levied in this article but who were erroneously or illegally subjected thereto.
(Code 1986, § 17-18)
Sec. 82-34. - Rate of levy; use of proceeds.
There is hereby set and levied an excise tax in the amount of eight percent of the rent and fees collected, for furnishing for value to the public any room or rooms, lodging or accommodations, by any person or legal entity in the corporate limits of the city operating a hotel, motel, inn, lodge, tourist camp, tourist cabin, or any other place in which rooms, lodgings or accommodations are regularly furnished for value. Such rate is set and levied pursuant to O.C.G.A. § 48-13-50 et seq. and the local Act of the General Assembly (House Bill 776), and the proceeds of this tax shall be used in accordance with O.C.G.A. § 48-13-50.2 and as set forth in the local Act (House Bill 776).
(Code 1986, § 17-19; Ord. No. O-0905-008, 6-9-2009)
Sec. 82-35. - Collection of tax by operator.
It shall be the duty of every operator of a hotel located within the city to collect the tax on occupants as imposed in this article.
(Code 1986, § 17-20)
Sec. 82-36. - Exemption.
Notwithstanding any other provision of this article, no tax shall be imposed under this article upon a permanent resident.
(Code 1986, § 17-21)
Sec. 82-37. - Registration of operator.
(a)
Every person engaging in or about to engage in business as an operator of a hotel in his city shall register such business with the clerk and treasurer, on a form provided by him for such purpose. The registration shall set forth the name under which the operator transacts business or intends to transact business, the location of his place or places of business, and such other information as would facilitate the collection of the tax by the clerk and treasurer. The registration shall be signed by the owner if a natural person; by a member or partner in case of ownership by an association or partnership; or by an officer in the case of ownership by a corporation.
(b)
A separate registration shall be required for each place of business or operator.
(Code 1986, § 17-22)
Sec. 82-38. - Certificate of taxing authority.
Upon the registration of an operator under this article, the clerk and treasurer shall issue to such operator without charge a certificate of authority to collect the tax on occupants. Each certificate shall state the name and location of the business to which it relates.
(Code 1986, § 17-23)
Sec. 82-39. - Due date; report.
All taxes levied by this article shall be due and payable to the clerk and treasurer monthly on or before the 20th day of every month next succeeding each respective month in which such taxes are collected, and payment shall be accompanied by a return for the preceding monthly period showing the gross rent, rent from permanent residents, taxable rent, amount of tax collected or otherwise due for the period, and such other information as may be required by the clerk and treasurer.
(Code 1986, § 17-24)
Sec. 82-40. - Determination if no return made.
If any hotel operator fails to file a return as required under the provisions of this article, the clerk and treasurer shall make an estimate of the gross rentals of such operator which are subject to the tax. The estimate shall be made for the period in which the operator failed to file the return and shall be based upon any information which is or may come into the possession of the clerk and treasurer.
(Code 1986, § 17-26)
Sec. 82-41. - Notice of determination.
The clerk and treasurer or his designated representative shall give to the hotel operator written notice of his determination of the gross rentals. The notice may be served personally or by mail; if by mail such service shall be addressed to the operator at his address as it appears in the records of the clerk and treasurer. Service by mail is complete when delivered by certified mail with a receipt signed by the addressee.
(Code 1986, § 17-27)
Sec. 82-42. - Interest on amount found due.
The amount of the determination made under this article shall bear interest at the rate of one percent per month, or fraction thereof, from the 20th day of the month following the monthly period, for which the amount of any portion thereof should have been returned, until the date of payment.
(Code 1986, § 17-28)
Sec. 82-43. - Records.
Each hotel operator collecting a tax under the provisions of this article shall keep for a period of at least three years all records, receipts, invoices, and other pertinent papers setting forth the rental charged for each occupancy, the date or dates of occupancy, and such other information as the clerk and treasurer may require.
(Code 1986, § 17-29)
Sec. 82-44. - Action for collection.
At any time within three years after any tax or any portion of such tax required to be collected under this article becomes due and payable, the city attorney may bring an action in a court of competent jurisdiction in the name of the city to collect such amount due, together with interest, court fees, filing fees, attorney's fees, and other legal fees incident thereto.
(Code 1986, § 17-30)
Sec. 82-45. - Successors or assignees of operator.
If any hotel operator becomes liable for any amount required to be paid by this article and subsequent thereto sells his business or quits the business, the successors or assignees of such operator shall withhold a sufficient amount of the purchase price to cover such amount due. In the event such purchaser of the business fails to withhold the required amount, he shall become personally liable therefor to the extent of the purchase price.
(Code 1986, § 17-31)
Sec. 82-46. - Proceeds of tax.
The proceeds of this excise tax shall be used in accordance with O.C.G.A. § 48-13-51(a)(3).
(Ord. No. O-0610-028, 10-24-2006)
