Chapter 10 - AMUSEMENTS AND ENTERTAINMENTS[1]
Footnotes:
--- (1) ---
Cross reference— Businesses, ch. 22.

ARTICLE I. - IN GENERAL

Secs. 10-1—10-30. - Reserved.
ARTICLE II. - POOL AND BILLIARDS[2]

Footnotes:
--- (2) ---
Charter reference— Licensing, § 60 et seq.
State Law reference— Operators of billiard rooms, O.C.G.A. § 43-8-1 et seq.

Sec. 10-31. - Use of partitions, screens or other obstructions.
No person who operates a poolroom or billiard room shall permit any screens, curtains, blinds, partitions or other obstructions to be used to prevent a clear view of the interior, which clear view must be maintained at all times. No partitions forming rooms, stalls or other enclosures shall be permitted. However, this section shall not be construed to prohibit the maintenance of washrooms and toilet rooms for proper purposes nor the maintenance of closets for storage purposes exclusively.
(Code 1986, § 12-151)
Sec. 10-32. - Hours of operation; alcoholic beverages; notice.
(a)
Poolrooms and billiard rooms shall be closed each night at 2:00 a.m. and on Sunday at 1:30 a.m., and remain closed until 6:00 a.m.
(b)
It shall be unlawful for any owner or operator, and/or any employee or agent of such owner or operator, to knowingly allow or permit any person to consume or have in his possession any beer, wine or distilled spirits on the premises of the poolroom or billiard room on Sunday, unless such poolroom or billiard room is authorized to sell alcoholic beverages and derives at least 50 percent of its total annual gross revenues from the sale of products or services other than alcoholic beverages. Any person who violates the provisions of this subsection shall be guilty of a misdemeanor.
(c)
It shall be unlawful for any individual patron of a poolroom or billiard room to consume or have in his possession any beer, wine or distilled spirits on the premises of such establishment on Sunday. Any person who violates this subsection shall be guilty of a misdemeanor.
(d)
Any owner or operator of a poolroom or billiard room who opens such establishment on Sunday in accordance with subsection (a) of this section shall be required to post at least one sign, being two feet by two feet in size, containing the following information in easy-to-read printing if such information applies to his poolroom or billiard room:
NOTICE
It is unlawful to drink or have in your possession any alcoholic beverages on the premises of this establishment on Sundays. Violators will be prosecuted. (City Code section 10-32).
Such sign shall be displayed in a conspicuous and clearly visible location within the poolroom or billiard room.
(Code 1986, § 12-152; Ord. No. O-00-06, 5-23-2000)
Sec. 10-33. - Minors.
No person operating a poolroom or billiard room shall permit minors to play in such room, frequent the room, loiter therein or enter the premises thereof.
(Code 1986, § 12-153)
Sec. 10-34. - Inspection by police.
All persons conducting or operating poolrooms or billiard rooms in the city shall permit the inspection during business hours of the premises used as a pool or billiard room and all premises connected therewith by the police of the city.
(Code 1986, § 12-154)
Sec. 10-35. - Exemption.
This article does not apply to poolrooms and billiard rooms that are exempted by law.
Secs. 10-36—10-70. - Reserved.
ARTICLE III. - DANCE HALLS[3]

Footnotes:
--- (3) ---
State Law reference— Public dance halls, O.C.G.A. § 43-21-50 et seq.; application within municipal limits, O.C.G.A. § 43-21-58.

Sec. 10-71. - Definition.
The following words, terms and phrases, when used in this article, shall have the meaning ascribed to them in this section, except where the context clearly indicates a different meaning:
"Public dance hall" shall mean any enclosure wherein public dancing is permitted or taught regularly or at infrequent intervals, for money or hire, but shall exclude places exclusively devoted to the teaching of children 12 years of age and less, and places where public dancing is wholly incidental to another business or businesses operated under the same management or as part of and within the same structure and place of recreation located on the campuses of schools within the city.
(Code 1986, § 12-251)
Cross reference— Definitions generally, § 1-2.
Sec. 10-72. - Violations.
All persons who shall operate or maintain within the city a public dance hall without having first obtained a license therefor, and all persons who shall continue to operate or maintain a public dance hall within the city after their license shall have been revoked, shall be, on the conviction thereof in the municipal court of the city, punished as provided by section 1-6 of this Code.
(Code 1986, § 12-252)
Sec. 10-73. - Purpose.
Public dance halls operated for money, profit or hire shall be deemed appropriate subjects for municipal licensing and regulation within the city, and such regulations are made in the interest of protecting the public at large in the enjoyment of health and good morals and to aid in the prevention of fire.
(Code 1986, § 12-253)
Sec. 10-74. - License generally.
Licenses may be issued to persons desiring to operate or maintain a public dance hall within the city, upon the following terms:
(1)
All persons desiring to operate or maintain a public dance hall within the city shall file with the clerk and treasurer an application in writing for a license, and the application shall state the name of the applicant, the location of the hall or place and the approximate number of times per calendar week that dances are contemplated at such place. The amount of the tax imposed by the council shall accompany each application for such a license.
(2)
All applicants shall agree in their applications for license that their place of business or hall shall be subject to inspection during operating hours by the county, state and city officers charged with the preservation of the peace, and by their deputies; and shall further agree to conduct the business for which the license is applied in conformity with such regulations as now exist and that may hereafter be prescribed governing such business, passed by the council.
(3)
Licenses applied for or granted may be refused, suspended or revoked by the council at any time, upon the return to the licensee of such portion of the occupation tax as shall at the time be unearned when calculated on the basis of time, in accordance with due process, if the applicant has violated, or if the license holder violates, any of the ordinances, rules and regulations prescribed by the city for the conduct of the business or the law of Georgia concerning such business, or should the licensee fail to preserve order at the place of business.
(Code 1986, § 12-254)
Sec. 10-75. - Regulations.
The following rules and regulations shall govern the conduct of the business of operating and maintaining a public dance hall within the city:
(1)
The location specified by the applicant for a license shall be equipped with adequate and readily accessible fire escapes, plainly marked, and shall afford sufficient ventilating facilities for a group of persons equivalent to the capacity of such place; the sufficiency of the items shall be certified to the council by the chief of the fire department after an inspection of the premises by him.
(2)
No license shall be granted for the operation or maintenance of a public dance hall in any building or structure in which any malt beverages, wines or distilled spirits are sold or kept for sale.
(3)
No public dance hall shall be located at any place within the city, the operation and maintenance of which will tend to disturb the peace and tranquility of the neighbors thereof.
(Code 1986, § 12-255)
State Law reference— Fire escapes, O.C.G.A. § 8-2-50 et seq.
Secs. 10-76—10-110. - Reserved.
ARTICLE IV. - AMUSEMENT MACHINES[4]
Footnotes:
--- (4) ---
State Law reference— Replays on coin-operated devices, O.C.G.A. § 16-12-35.

DIVISION 1. - GENERALLY

Sec. 10-111. - Violations.
All persons who shall operate pinball or amusement machines described in this article, without first obtaining a license so to do, or shall violate any of the terms, rules, regulations and conditions prescribed in this article, or any of such rules, regulations and conditions as may be hereafter prescribed, or shall operate such machine after the license has been revoked, shall be deemed in violation of this article.
(Code 1986, § 12-116)
Sec. 10-112. - Machines to be in exposed areas.
No pinball or other amusement machine shall be kept or operated, under this article, in a basement or cellar of any building, in a room where the public is not freely admitted, in a screened or veiled area within a larger room or behind screens, blinds, curtains or other hiding places.
(Code 1986, § 12-117)
Sec. 10-113. - Hours of operation.
Pinball and other amusement machines shall not be operated on any day of the week earlier than 6:00 a.m. or later than 12:00 midnight local prevailing time, nor shall they be used as means or instrument for the hazarding of money or other thing of value, or for the violation of any ordinance of the city.
(Code 1986, § 12-118)
Sec. 10-114. - Right of entry for purposes of inspection.
All rooms, storerooms, buildings and places where pinball and other amusement machines are kept or operated, and the premises connected therewith under the control of the operator, shall be subject to inspection during business hours by the county, state or city officers charged with the preservation of the peace. Refusal to permit such inspection shall be deemed a violation of this article.
(Code 1986, § 12-119)
Sec. 10-115. - Adoption of amusement device code.
The 1997 edition of the Standard Amusement Device Code, as published by the Southern Building Code Congress, International, Inc., as filed in the office of the clerk and treasurer and identified by the signature of the mayor thereon, is hereby adopted as the official standard amusement device code of the city.
(Code 1986, § 12-120)
Secs. 10-116—10-140. - Reserved.
DIVISION 2. - LICENSE

Sec. 10-141. - Generally.
The council may grant licenses to operate pinball and other amusement machines in the city, subject to such conditions and under such rules and regulations as are set out in this article, and subject to such other conditions, rules and regulations as may hereafter be made by the council relative to the operation of the machines.
(Code 1986, § 12-131)
Sec. 10-142. - Licensee to accept conditions of article.
The acceptance of a license issued under this article shall constitute an acceptance by the licensee of all terms and conditions of this article.
(Code 1986, § 12-132)
Sec. 10-143. - Application; approval.
(a)
No license to operate a pinball or other amusement machines shall be granted except upon the written application of the person who proposes to conduct the business of operating the machine, and no license to conduct the business shall be granted or issued until the applicant has been approved by the council and has paid the special tax levied for the conduct of such business. The application, prior to being approved by the council, shall be approved by the building official and the chief of police.
(b)
The applicant shall provide his name and address, the name and address of the owner of the machine, the name and address of the owner of the business, the name and address of the manager of the business, the name and address of the owner of the property (building, etc.), the name, location and type of business (primary) where the machine will be located for operation and the date of birth, citizenship, social security number, place of birth, height, weight, color of eyes and hair and list any criminal record of the applicant. He shall also permit photographs and fingerprints to be taken and filed by the police department.
(c)
No license shall be approved by the chief of police until he has investigated the applicant as he deems necessary, touching upon his character and reputation, and has checked for any criminal record on the state, federal and local levels. The chief of police or marshal shall have the authority to temporarily suspend the license on any machine pending further action by the council. The applicant will file the completed application with the chief of police. The chief of police shall file the application, if approved, with the clerk and treasurer for further approval or other action. On approval the clerk and treasurer shall issue a license in the form of a decal or sticker. Upon receipt of the license, the applicant will place the decal issued on the machine, inside the glass before the machine is placed in operation. Every machine must be licensed to identify the serial number and make of the machine.
(Code 1986, § 12-133)
Sec. 10-144. - Levy of tax; refund; renewal.
(a)
The following taxes are hereby assessed and levied upon all persons conducting the business of operating pinball and other amusement machines within the city, the sum of $100.00 for each place of business where only one such machine is operated, and the sum of $100.00 for each additional machine kept or operated at such place of business. The taxes hereby levied shall be for the current year for which the tax is paid and the license issued.
(b)
No tax shall be prorated or refunded unless the license to operate the machines is revoked by the council, in the exercise of its discretion, in which event the taxes shall be prorated on a monthly basis. Should the license be revoked because of a violation by the holder thereof of the terms of this article, no part of the tax shall be refunded.
(c)
A licensee shall make a new application for a license by December 1 of each year if the licensee desires to continue to operate each machine during the subsequent year. Each machine licensed by the city shall be operated within the city only at the location approved in the application.
(Code 1986, § 12-134)
Sec. 10-145. - Revocation generally.
A license to operate pinball and other amusement machines and a license to conduct the business of operating such machines may be refused, suspended or revoked by the council, in accordance with due process, if an applicant therefor has violated, or if the license holder violates, any of the ordinances, rules and regulations prescribed by the city for the conduct of such business, or the law of Georgia concerning such business, or should the licensee fail to preserve order at the place of business.
(Code 1986, § 12-135)
