ARTICLE X. - SCHOOLS

Sec. 72. - Conveyance of land for the benefit of Georgia Military College.
(a)
The said mayor and aldermen are hereby vested with full power and authority, in their discretion, to grant, bargain and sell, lease, or otherwise utilize as in their judgment may seem best, all that lot or square of land situated in the corporate limits of the City of Milledgeville, known and designated on the map of said city as the east part of Government Square, together with the unopened streets surrounding said land, that is, the part of said square not now occupied by the Central of Georgia Railway Company, the title to which is now in the State of Georgia, and which has not heretofore been given or expressly granted to the city or to the trustees of any of the public institutions in the County of Baldwin, for the exclusive use, benefit, maintenance and support of the Georgia Military College, in the City of Milledgeville.
(1916 Ga. Laws, page 819, § 2)
(b)
The mayor and aldermen of the City of Milledgeville be, and they are hereby authorized and empowered to release, grant and convey to the board of trustees of Georgia Military College the title and interest of the City of Milledgeville in three and forty-seven hundredths (3.47) acres of land, with all the improvements thereon, in the northeast corner of the "Old Capitol Square" in Milledgeville, known as the barracks property.
(1939 Ga. Laws, page 1162, § 1)
Sec. 73. - Election of trustees of Georgia Military College.
(a)
Place of election. In all elections held in the City of Milledgeville in pursuance of any act of the General Assembly hereafter to be enacted that said elections shall be held at the city hall in the City of Milledgeville in accordance with the terms and provisions of any act of the General Assembly, providing for the election of said trustees.
(b)
Expenses. All the expenses incident to the election of said trustees shall be borne by the mayor and aldermen of the City of Milledgeville and paid out of the treasury of said city.
(1922 Ga. Laws, page 912, §§ 2, 3)
(c)
Representatives of mayor and aldermen. The mayor and aldermen of the City of Milledgeville shall elect from their own membership two (2) members from their own membership to the eighth and ninth positions on the Board of Trustees of Georgia Military College, which two (2) members so elected shall hold said positions until their respective city terms of office shall expire. Any member of the city council may succeed himself as a member of the Board of Trustees of Georgia Military College, upon being reelected by the city council, and any vacancy created in either of those positions shall be filled by the city council from their [sic] own membership.
(1970 Ga. Laws, page 2237, § 1)
