Chapter 2 - ADMINISTRATION[1]
Footnotes:
--- (1) ---
State Law reference— Counties a body corporate and politic, Ga. Const. art. IX, § I, ¶ I; county officers, election, term, compensation, Ga. Const. art. IX, § I, ¶ III; home rule for counties, Ga. Const. art. IX, § II, ¶ I; supplemental powers of municipalities and counties enumerated, Ga. Const. art. IX, § II, ¶ III; county government generally, O.C.G.A. § 36-1-1 et seq.; county a body corporate, O.C.G.A. § 36-1-3; board of commissioners authorized to adopt ordinances for the governing and policing of the unincorporated areas of the county, O.C.G.A. § 36-1-20(a); organization of county government, O.C.G.A. § 36-5-20 et seq.; matters over which governing authority has jurisdiction, O.C.G.A. § 36-5-22.1; county property generally, O.C.G.A. § 36-9-1 et seq.

ARTICLE I. - IN GENERAL

Sec. 2-1. - Policy of nondiscrimination on the basis of handicapped status adopted.
The county board of commissioners does not discriminate on the basis of handicapped status in the admission or access to, or treatment or employment in, its programs or activities. The clerk of the county commission is designated to coordinate compliance with the nondiscrimination requirements contained in section 51.55 of the revenue sharing regulations.
(Code 1999, § 2-1; Mo. of 1-5-1984)
State Law reference— Handicapped persons, O.C.G.A. § 30-1-1 et seq.; Georgia Equal Employment for the Handicapped Code, O.C.G.A. § 34-6A-1 et seq.
Sec. 2-2. - Records management.
(a)
The county board of commissioners hereby names and appoints the clerk of the county board of commissioners as the party responsible for records management activities. The clerk of the commission shall act for, and in behalf of, itself in directing and coordinating all records management matters.
(b)
Records shall be maintained in accordance with the retention schedules approved by the state records committee, and the recommended record management schedules are hereby approved and adopted.
(Code 1999, § 2-2; Res. of 12-15-1983)
State Law reference— Georgia Records Act, O.C.G.A. § 50-18-90 et seq.
Sec. 2-3. - Purchase orders; designation of purchasing agent.
(1)
Purchase orders: A purchase order is to be obtained for all purchases of $500.00 or more from the county clerk. The road department and maintenance shop are required to obtain a purchase order for any amount greater than $500.00. Like items to be acquired from the same vendor shall be grouped together on one purchase order where possible for more economical purchases.
a.
All purchases for materials, supplies, equipment, or services estimated to cost over $25,000.00 shall be based on competitive bidding or proposal procedures. These procedures include formal advertising, contracts, specifications, sealed bids, public opening, bid deposits and performance bonds. Equipment purchases from the Georgia Department of Administrative Services surplus or from state contracts are exempt from this provision. Charlton County reserves the right to reject bids, waive technicalities and make awards in the best interest of the county and in compliance with state law. Purchases of $25,000.00 or more require approval from the Charlton County Board of Commissioners.
b.
Any purchases for materials, supplies, equipment, or services with an estimated cost between $5,000.01 and $24,999.99 shall be based upon written competitive quotations from at least three reputable vendors if available, without regard for formal advertising. Equipment purchases from the Georgia Department of Administrative Services surplus or from state contacts are exempt from this provision. Purchases of $5000.01 to $24,999.99 require approval from the Charlton County Board of Commissioners.
c.
Any purchase for materials, supplies, equipment, or services between $500.01 and $5,000.00 must have the approval of the county administrator or county commission chairman.
d.
Any item, materials or service that has a value of $500.00 or less may be purchased from any approved vendor recommended by the using agency or in the absence of such recommendation, from any approved vendor selected by the purchasing agent.
e.
Sole source purchases shall be allowed when only one source is able to fill the requirements for the intended use. Sole source may be used for compatibility with equipment for repair purposes or to continue standardization. The county administrator or commission chairman shall approve all initial sole source purchases.
f.
Emergency Purchases shall be allowed when there is a threat to the health, safety or welfare of people or property or when faced with the loss of an essential governmental service. Competitive purchasing shall be resumed as soon as practical. The county administrator or commission chairman must authorize the initiation of this procedure.
g.
Professional services refer to such services as legal, medical, engineering, surveying, architectural and others whose professions are licensed by the State of Georgia. It is the policy of Charlton County to award contracts for professional services on the basis of demonstrated competence and qualifications at a fair and reasonable price with the selection based on the best interest of the county. The county administrator shall issue a request for qualifications from a minimum of three candidates if available every three years.
h.
Local preference. Bids awarded to local vendors contribute to the local tax base and will, therefore, be given special consideration when bidding against outside vendors. The county administrator is given the authority to give vendors from within the confines of the county, whose initial bid is within five percent of the low bid submitted by an out of county bidder, an opportunity to meet the lower bid price. The local bidder must agree in writing within 48 hours to meet the lowest price. This policy does not apply to any purchases of materials, equipment, or services in excess of $25,000.00. On those cases, the board of commissioners will make their decision based on the lowest and best bid by a responsive and responsible bidder submitted.
i.
The purchasing agent should use State of Georgia D.O.A.S. Contracts where feasible and if in the best interest of the county. The purchasing agent is also allowed to use the Georgia Correctional Industries Administration as a vendor.
(2)
Award of bid criteria: The BOC and the staff in determining the lowest and best bidder shall consider the vendors ability, capacity, skill, character, integrity, reputation, judgement, experience, efficiency, previous performance, compliance to the law, service, maintenance ability, and financial resources of the bidders. "Products" shall be evaluated on quality, availability, adaptability, delivery time and future maintenance and service. The board of commissioners is to make the final selection or award based upon the "best value" for Charlton County.
(3)
Local vendor privilege: If a Local Vendor's bid shall meet all specifications and is within five percent of the lowest responsive bid, then the board of commissioners may consider the fact that the bidder is a local vendor in making the bid award.
A "local vendor" for purposes of this section shall be defined as a vendor maintaining a physical presence within Charlton County, including, but not limited to the maintenance of one office within Charlton County and the continuous employment of not fewer than one person at such office for more than six months and hold a business license within Charlton County or the appropriate state license prior to the submission of such bid. The mere maintenance of a post office box within Charlton County shall not qualify a vendor as "local" for purposes of this policy.
This preference shall not apply to road construction or public works construction governed by Georgia Law O.C.G.A. § 36-91-1 et seq. or to the purchase of any other goods and/or services for which such preference is prohibited by Georgia Law.
(4)
State contracts, general service administration and Us communities governmental purchasing alliances: Items available for purchase from these sources have already been through a formal bidding process, thus items purchased through these programs shall be exempt for the local bidding process.
(5)
Road contracts and public works contracts: Public Works Contracts shall be governed by O.C.G.A. § 36-91-1 Georgia Local Government Public Works Construction Law, which supersedes this purchasing ordinance.
(6)
Preference for Georgia products: In accordance with O.C.G.A. § 36-84-1 et seq., Charlton County shall give preference, as far as reasonable and practicable, to such supplies, materials, equipment and agricultural products as may be manufactured, produced or grown within the State of Georgia. Such preference shall not sacrifice quality or reasonable delivery time.
(7)
Utilities, service contracts, insurances and judicial services: The BOC reviews and approves the following by direct methods of review and approval. These types of agreements include the following:
a.
Utilities, including electricity, natural and propane gas, water, sewer, land line phones, cell phones and similar services,
b.
Service agreements, including sprinklers, fire extinguishers, alarm services, elevators, and pest control, lawn services, similar services, and
c.
Insurances, including general liability, fleet, fire, group health, life, workers compensation, and retirement.
d.
Judicial services: including indigent defense, public defenders, court reporting, probate services, appointed attorneys, jail services and similar services.
e.
Agency contracts: The BOC reviews agency contracts during the budget process. Agency contracts include the following:
1.
Health department,
2.
DFCS,
3.
Library,
4.
Unison (mental health),
5.
Georgia Forestry Commission,
6.
Seven River RD&C,
7.
Southern Georgia Regional Commission, and
8.
Similar agencies.
Purchasing manual: A purchasing manual with related forms will provide a list of procedures once the BOC adopts the purchasing ordinance.
(Code 1999, § 2-3; Mo. of 12-7-1989; Ord. No. 5 of 2016, §§ 1—7, 3-3-2016; Ord. No. 11 of 2017, 4-6-2017; Ord. No. 21 of 2021, 7-1-2021)
State Law reference— Board of commissioners authority to control property of the county, O.C.G.A. § 36-5-22.1; county property generally, O.C.G.A. § 36-9-1 et seq.
Sec. 2-4. - Fee for use of county facilities.
There shall be a fee, as set forth in the schedule of fees and charges, for use of county facilities, i.e., St. George Community Room, Folkston Division Fire Station, for fundraising purposes for private groups and private purposes.
(Code 1999, § 2-4; Res. of 6-25-1982)
Sec. 2-5. - Reserved.
Editor's note— Ord. No. 17 of 2019 repealed former § 2-5 in its entirety which pertained to use of county equipment and derived from Code 1999, § 2-5; Mo. of 3-21-1985.
Sec. 2-6. - Franchise for cable TV service required.
It shall be unlawful for any person to operate or attempt to operate any business or undertaking for the transmission by cable and distribution of television energy in the county without first obtaining a franchise from the county government.
(Code 1999, § 2-6; Ord. of 12-15-1980)
Editor's note— The form for any franchise that may be granted to provide cable TV service in the county is on file in the office of the clerk of the county commissioners.
State Law reference— County regulation of cable television systems, O.C.G.A. § 36-18-1 et seq.
Secs. 2-7—2-30. - Reserved.
ARTICLE II. - BOARD OF COMMISSIONERS

Sec. 2-31. - Meetings.
(a)
The only regularly scheduled meeting of the county board of commissioners shall be held at the county courthouse in Folkston, Georgia, on a day and time as established by the board of county commissioners from time to time. The commission shall hold such other called meetings as may be deemed necessary which are authorized by existing state laws.
(b)
Notice of the time and day of the regularly scheduled meetings of the board of commissioners shall be advertised in the official county organ. A copy of this section shall be posted in the county courthouse and a copy shall be given to the sheriff, clerk of superior court, tax commissioner, chief magistrate and probate judge of the county.
(c)
Whenever any meeting required to be open to the public is to be held at a time or place other than at the time and place prescribed for regular meetings, the board shall give due notice thereof in accordance with O.C.G.A. § 50-14-1(d).
(Code 1999, § 2-31)
State Law reference— Meetings to be open to public, O.C.G.A. § 50-14-1 et seq.; excluded proceedings, O.C.G.A. § 50-14-3.
Sec. 2-32. - Recreation advisory board created; membership; appointments; terms of office; quorum; expenses.
(a)
Composition: There is hereby created the Charlton County Recreation Advisory Board which shall consist of five citizens of the County appointed to five posts. The members of the advisory board shall be appointed by the board of commissioners.
(b)
Terms: For initial terms, two members (Posts 1 and 3) shall be appointed for a term of one year; three members (Posts 2, 4 and 5) shall be appointed for two years. Thereafter all members shall serve for a term of two years. The members of the advisory board shall be eligible for re-appointment.
(c)
Officers: The advisory board shall elect a chairman, a vice chairman and secretary and such other officers as it deems necessary.
(d)
Compensation: The members and officers shall serve without compensation, but shall be entitled to reimbursement for actual travel, training and maintenance expenses incurred in the performance of their duties; provided that such expenses are first approved by the county administrator.
(e)
Quorum: Three members present at a meeting shall constitute a quorum for the transaction of any business.
(f)
Meetings: The advisory board shall establish a regular schedule of meeting which shall be open to the public.
(Ord. No. 7 of 2016, § 1, 4-21-2016)
Sec. 2-33. - Powers of the advisory board.
The advisory board shall have the following powers, subject to the approval of this board of commissioners:
(a)
To make recommendations to this board of commissioners as to the selection and retention of the recreation director, the operation of the recreation facilities, recreation programs and services.
(b)
To assist in the preparation of long range plans for improvements to the recreation programs and facilities.
(c)
To assist in seeking grants for improvements, to accept donations, gifts, devises and endowments to be used for carrying out the purposes of this article. All funds so acquired shall held and disbursed by the county clerk's office.
(d)
The advisory board shall not have any authority to make any purchases or otherwise bind the county to any financial obligation or undertaking, the same being expressly prohibited. The financial requirements of the advisory board shall be meet in accordance with the purchasing policies of the board of commissioners.
(Ord. No. 7 of 2016, § 2, 4-21-2016)
Sec. 2-34. - Duties of the advisory board.
(a)
Supervise the management of the recreation facilities of this county, which presently include: Deuce Lloyd Park, Chatman-Mobley Park, St. George Park, Traders Hill Camp Grounds, and all Georgia DNR boat ramps including: Traders Hill, St. George, Camp Pinckney, and Burnt Fort.
(b)
Determine and set all policies, rules and regulations concerning the said recreation facilities and the activities permitted therein.
(c)
Review and make recommendations about the annual budget proposals prepared by the recreation director for submitting to the county administrator and the board of commissioners.
(d)
Assist the recreation director with the preparation and submittal of an annual report of all recreation activities to the county administrator and the board of commissioners.
(e)
Assist the recreation director in annually reviewing and updating the schedule of fees for the participation in recreation programs and the use of public facilities, to be recommended to the county administrator and the board of commissioners.
(f)
Supervise the policy that any incident resulting in injury to an individual on the property of a recreation facility during any event or activity authorized by this board and/or the recreation director shall be reported, in writing, to the county clerk's office and the county administrator within one business day after the incident.
(g)
Supervise the policy that the use of alcoholic beverages or illegal drugs in any form on the premises of a recreation facility shall not be permitted.
(h)
Supervise the policy that every person authorized by the recreation director or the advisory board to use the recreation facilities will be held responsible and accountable for the proper use and protection of all property which comes under his/her control, and such person shall not cause damage or waste to recreational property.
(Ord. No. 7 of 2016, § 3, 4-21-2016)
Secs. 2-35—2-50. - Reserved.
ARTICLE III. - OFFICERS AND EMPLOYEES[2]
Footnotes:
--- (2) ---
Editor's note— The personnel management system policies including the recruitment policy and procedure as well as the grievance procedure is compiled and published separately by the county. An official copy is on file in the office of the clerk of the board of commissioners.

DIVISION 1. - GENERALLY

Sec. 2-51. - Seat belts.
All persons who drive or ride in vehicles while on county business will, in all cases, wear a seat belt.
(Code 1999, § 2-51; Ord. of 11-6-1997, § 3)
Sec. 2-52. - Employee bond.
All county employees of whom a bond is required for their employment shall be bonded in the amount of $100,000.00.
(Ord. of 8-5-1999)
Sec. 2-53. - Personnel management system incorporated by reference.
The Charlton County Personnel Management System manual, as approved by the board of commissioners on December 4, 1997, and amended by the board from time to time, is hereby adopted by reference and incorporated herein to the same extent and effect as though it were fully set forth.
Secs. 2-54—2-79. - Reserved.
DIVISION 2. - BENEFITS

Sec. 2-80. - Workers' compensation.
Certain elected officials of the county shall be covered under the Association of County Commissioners of Georgia Group Self-Insured Workers' Compensation Fund. While performing their elected duties, the board of commissioners, sheriff, probate judge, clerk of court, magistrate judge, tax commissioner, coroner and volunteer firefighters shall be covered under the worker's compensation laws of the state.
(Code 1999, § 2-61; Ord. of 12-3-1987, § 1)
Sec. 2-81. - Social security.
The county, by and through its lawfully constituted board of commissioners, hereby adopts the terms, conditions, requirements, reservations, benefits, privileges and other conditions thereunto appertaining, of title II of the Social Security Act (42 USCA § 401 et seq.), as amended by Public Law No. 761, 83rd Congress, for and on behalf of all the officers and employees thereof and of its departments and instrumentalities, except any such officers and employees who occupy any position, office or employment not authorized to be covered by applicable state or federal laws or regulations.
(Code 1999, § 2-62; Res. of 2-1-1955; Res. of 12-20-1984, § 1)
State Law reference— Political subdivisions authorized to extend benefits of title II of the Social Security Act to employees, O.C.G.A. § 47-18-41.
Secs. 2-82—2-105. - Reserved.
ARTICLE IV. - BOARDS, COMMISSIONS, AUTHORITIES
DIVISION 1. - GENERALLY

Secs. 2-106—2-123. - Reserved.
DIVISION 2. - BOARD OF TAX ASSESSORS[3]

Footnotes:
--- (3) ---
State Law reference— Creation of county board of tax assessors, O.C.G.A. § 48-5-290.

Sec. 2-124. - Number of members.
modified
The county board of tax assessors shall consist of three members who shall be qualified, perform the duties and hold the office of tax assessor as prescribed by the laws of the state.
(Code 1999, § 2-96; Res. of 2-20-1986; Ord. No. 22 of 2022, 1-20-2022)
Secs. 2-125—2-146. - Reserved.
DIVISION 3. - VOLUNTEER FIRE DEPARTMENT BOARD OF DIRECTORS

Sec. 2-147. - Created.
A board of directors of the voluntary fire units of the county is hereby created and established to serve at the discretion of the commission.
(Code 1999, § 2-106; Res. of 4-7-1983, § A)
Sec. 2-148. - Authority.
The board of directors of the voluntary fire units are hereby delegated the authority and shall be charged with the responsibility of managing and directing the operations of the voluntary fire departments of the county, with the approval of the county commission, and shall report its actions to the board of commissioners. The board shall have any other incidental powers and authority to carry out the charge of this division.
(Code 1999, § 2-107; Res. of 4-7-1983, § F)
Sec. 2-149. - Composition.
The board of directors of the voluntary fire units shall be composed of five persons who shall serve terms as set out in this division.
(Code 1999, § 2-108; Res. of 4-7-1983, § B)
Sec. 2-150. - Appointment of members.
(a)
Three members of the board of directors of the voluntary fire units shall be elected officials from the governing authorities of the City of Folkston, City of Homeland and this county. Each of these respective governmental authorities shall make their appointments to the board during their first meeting in January of each year.
(b)
The remaining two members of the board shall be appointed by the county board of commissioners and shall each serve a term of two years after the initial terms which shall be staggered so that one member shall be initially appointed for one year and the other for two years. The initial terms of the board members shall be determined by the flip of a coin after the appointments have first been made. The two board members who are not representatives of a governmental unit shall be appointed by virtue of their residency in the north and south ends of the county. That is, one member shall come from the north end of the county and one member shall come from the south end of the county. The nonelected members may be active voluntary firefighters.
(c)
The board of directors of the voluntary fire units shall have numbered posts and be designated as Post 1 (Charlton County), Post 2 (City of Folkston), Post 3 (City of Homeland), Post 4 (north) and Post 5 (south).
(Code 1999, § 2-109; Res. of 4-7-1983, §§ C—E)
Sec. 2-151. - Budget.
The board of directors of the voluntary fire units shall propose an annual budget to the county commission for consideration and shall then operate within the financial confines of the adopted budget, unless the budget is amended by the county commission.
(Code 1999, § 2-110; Res. of 4-7-1983, § G)
Secs. 2-152—2-170. - Reserved.
DIVISION 4. - HOSPITAL AUTHORITY[4]

Footnotes:
--- (4) ---
State Law reference— Hospital Authorities Law, O.C.G.A. § 31-7-70 et seq.

Sec. 2-171. - Created.
The hospital authority of the county is created and established by the board of commissioners by the adoption of the ordinance from which this section is derived.
(Code 1999, § 2-121; Ord. of 3-4-1970)
Secs. 2-172—2-195. - Reserved.
DIVISION 5. - INDUSTRIAL DEVELOPMENT AUTHORITY[5]

Footnotes:
--- (5) ---
State Law reference— Development Authorities Law, O.C.G.A. § 36-62-1 et seq.

Sec. 2-196. - Created.
There is hereby created a public body corporate and politic to be designated as the county industrial development authority, having all the powers and privileges granted under state law.
(Code 1999, § 2-131; Res. of 6-4-1963)
