Chapter 1 - GENERAL PROVISIONS[1]

Footnotes:
--- (1) ---
State Law reference— Home rule power of counties, Ga. Const. art. IX, § II, ¶ I; construction of statutes, O.C.G.A. § 1-3-1 et seq.; authority of municipality to adopt ordinances, resolutions or regulations, O.C.G.A. § 36-35-3.

Sec. 1-1. - Designation and citation of Code.
The ordinances embraced in the following chapters and sections shall constitute and be designated the "Code of Ordinances of Charlton County, Georgia," and may be so cited. Such Code may also be cited as the "Charlton County Code" or the "county Code."
(Code 1999, § 1-1)
State Law reference— Codification requirements, O.C.G.A. § 36-80-19.
Sec. 1-2. - Definitions and rules of construction.
In the construction of this Code and of all ordinances, the following definitions and rules of construction shall be observed, unless inconsistent with the manifest intent of the board of commissioners or the context clearly requires otherwise:
Board, board of commissioners. The terms "board" and "board of commissioners" mean the board of commissioners of Charlton County, Georgia.
Bond. When a bond is required by law, an undertaking in writing, without seal, is sufficient; in all bonds where the names of the obligors do not appear in the bond, but are subscribed thereto, they shall be bound thereby.
Code. The term "Code" means the Code of Ordinances of Charlton County, Georgia, as designated in section 1-1.
Computation of time. Except as otherwise provided by time period computations specifically applying to other laws, when a period of time measured in days, weeks, months, years or other measurements of time except hours is prescribed for the exercise of any privilege or the discharge of any duty, the first day shall not be counted but the last day shall be counted; and, if the last day falls on Saturday or Sunday, the party having such privilege or duty shall have through the following Monday to exercise the privilege or to discharge the duty. When the last day prescribed for such action falls on a public and legal holiday, the party having the privilege or duty shall have through the next business day to exercise the privilege or to discharge the duty. When the period of time prescribed is less than seven days, intermediate Saturdays, Sundays and legal holidays shall be excluded in the computation.
Conjunctions. In a provision involving two or more items, conditions, provisions or events, which items, conditions, provisions or events are connected by the conjunction "and," "or" or "either/or," the conjunction shall be interpreted as follows, except that in appropriate cases the terms "or" and "and" are interchangeable:
(1)
The term "and" indicates that all the connected terms, conditions, provisions or events apply.
(2)
The term "or" indicates that the connected terms, conditions, provisions or events apply singly or in any combination.
(3)
The term "either/or" indicates that the connected terms, conditions, provisions or events apply singly, but not in combination.
County. Whenever the terms "county," "the county" and "this county" are used they shall refer to Charlton County, Georgia.
Court. The term "court" means the court provided by law for the punishment of offenders against the laws or ordinances of the county, whether it shall be the court now constituted or a court hereafter established pursuant to law.
Day. The term "day" means a calendar day of 24 hours.
Delegation of authority. Whenever a provision requires the head of a department or an official of the county to do some act or perform some function, it shall be construed to authorize the head of such department or the official to designate, delegate and authorize subordinates to do the required act or perform the required function, unless the terms of the provisions designate otherwise.
Gender. The masculine gender includes the feminine and neuter.
Governor. The term "governor" means the governor of the State of Georgia.
Joint authority. A joint authority given to any number of persons or officers may be executed by a majority of them, unless it is otherwise declared.
Legislative intent. In all interpretations of this Code or of ordinances, resolutions or motions the courts shall look diligently for the intention of the board of commissioners, keeping in mind at all times the old law, the evil and the remedy. Grammatical errors shall not vitiate any provision, and a transposition of words, terms and phrases may be resorted to when a clause or sentence is without meaning as it stands.
Month, year. The terms "month" and "year" mean calendar month and calendar year unless otherwise provided.
Names of officers, departments. The name or title of any officer or department shall be read as though the words "of Charlton County" were added thereto.
Nontechnical and technical terms. The ordinary significance shall be applied to all terms, except terms of art, or terms connected with a particular trade or subject matter, in which case they shall have the significance attached to them by experts in such trade, or with reference to such subject matter.
Number. The singular or plural number shall each include the other, unless expressly excluded.
Oath. The term "oath" includes an affirmation in all cases in which by law an affirmation may be substituted for an oath, and in such cases the terms "affirm" and "affirmed" shall be equivalent to the terms "swear" and "sworn."
O.C.G.A. The abbreviation "O.C.G.A." means the Official Code of Georgia Annotated.
Officer. The term "officer" includes officials appointed by the board of commissioners on a part-time or temporary basis, including the county attorney and magistrate court or state court judge.
Or, and. The term "or" may be read "and" and the term "and" may be read "or," if the sense requires it.
Owner. The term "owner," when applied to buildings or land, includes any part owner, joint owner, tenant in common, joint tenant or tenant by the entirety, of the whole or part of such building or land.
Person. The term "person" shall extend and be applied to firms, partnerships, associations, organizations, corporations and bodies politic, or any combination thereof, as well as to natural persons.
Personal property. The term "personal property" includes every species of property except real property as defined in this section.
Preceding, following. The terms "preceding" and "following" mean generally next before and next after, unless the context requires a different significance.
Property. The term "property" includes real and personal property.
Real property. The term "real property" includes lands, tenements and hereditaments.
Requirements. In the interpretation and application of any provision of this Code, it shall be held to be the minimum requirement adopted for the promotion of the public health, safety, comfort, convenience and general welfare. Where any provision of this Code imposes greater restrictions upon the subject matter than another more general provision, the provision imposing the greater restriction or regulation shall be deemed controlling.
Residence. The term "residence" means the place adopted by a person as his place of habitation and to which, whenever he is absent, he has the intention of returning. When a person eats at one place and sleeps at another, the place where such person sleeps shall be deemed his residence.
Right-of-way. The term "right-of-way" means land that is dedicated or otherwise legally established for public use.
Roadway. The term "roadway" means that portion of a street improved, designed or ordinarily used for vehicular traffic.
Schedule of fees and charges. The term "schedule of fees and charges" means the official consolidated list compiled and published by the county which contains rates for utility and other public enterprises, fees, deposit amounts and various charges as determined from time to time by the county commission, an official copy of which is maintained in the office of the county clerk where it is available for reference and review during normal business hours.
Seal. The term "seal" means the county seal.
Shall, may. The term "shall" is always mandatory and not merely directory; the term "may" is permissive.
Sidewalk. The term "sidewalk" means that portion of the street right-of-way which is improved and designated for the use of pedestrians.
Signature, subscription. The terms "signature" and "subscription" include the mark of an illiterate or infirm person.
State. Whenever the term "state," "the state" or "this state" is used it shall refer to the State of Georgia.
Street. The term "street" means and includes any public way, road, highway, street, avenue, boulevard, parkway, lane, path, viaduct, bridge or any other name a street is commonly known by, or any public place and the approaches thereto within the county when any part thereof is open to the use of the public and established for purposes of vehicular traffic.
Substantial compliance. A substantial compliance with any requirement of this Code or ordinances amendatory hereof, especially on the part of public officers, shall be deemed and held sufficient; and no proceeding shall be declared void for want of such compliance, unless expressly so provided.
Tenant, occupant. The terms "tenant" and "occupant," applied to a building or land, include any person who occupies the whole or part of such building or land, whether alone or with others.
Tense. Terms used in the past or present tense include the future as well as the past and the present.
Title of office. The title of any office shall be construed to include the words "of Charlton County, Georgia."
Writing, written. The terms "writing" and "written" include printing and all numerals, as well as pictures, illustrations and printed or written designs.
(Code 1999, § 1-2)
State Law reference— Statutory definitions and rules of construction, O.C.G.A. § 1-3-1 et seq.; computation of time, O.C.G.A. § 1-3-1; construction of definitions, O.C.G.A. § 1-3-2; meaning of certain words, O.C.G.A. § 1-3-3; time, O.C.G.A. § 9-11-6.
Sec. 1-3. - Catchlines of sections; history notes; references.
(a)
The catchlines of the several sections of this Code printed in boldface type are intended as mere catchwords to indicate the contents of the section and shall not be deemed or taken to be titles of such sections or as any part of the section nor, unless expressly so provided, shall they be so deemed when any of such sections, including the catchlines, are amended or reenacted.
(b)
The history notes appearing in parentheses after each section and the references and editor's notes scattered throughout the Code are for the benefit of the user of the Code and shall have no legal effect.
(Code 1999, § 1-3)
State Law reference— Notes and catchlines of Code sections not part of law, O.C.G.A. § 1-1-7.
Sec. 1-4. - Code provisions considered continuations of existing ordinances.
The provisions appearing in this Code, so far as they are the same as ordinances adopted prior to this Code and included in such Code, shall be considered as continuations thereof and not as new enactments.
(Code 1999, § 1-5)
Sec. 1-5. - Effect of repeal of ordinances.
(a)
The repeal of an ordinance shall not revive any ordinance in force before or at the time the ordinance repealed took effect.
(b)
The repeal of an ordinance shall not affect any punishment or penalty incurred before the repeal took effect, or any suit, prosecution or proceeding pending at the time of the repeal, for an offense committed or matter covered under the ordinance repealed.
(Code 1999, § 1-6)
Sec. 1-6. - Amendments to Code.
(a)
All ordinances passed subsequent to this Code which amend, repeal or in any way affect this Code, may be numbered in accordance with the numbering system of this Code and printed for inclusion in this Code. In the case of the repeal of chapters, sections and subsections or any part thereof by subsequent ordinances, such repealed portions may be excluded from this Code by omission from reprinted pages affected thereby. The subsequent ordinances as numbered and printed or omitted, in the case of repeal, shall be prima facie evidence of such subsequent ordinances until such time that this Code and subsequent ordinances numbered or omitted are readopted as a new Code of Ordinances by the board of commissioners.
(b)
Amendments to any of the provisions of this Code may be made by amending such provisions by specific reference to the section number of this Code in the following language: "That section _____ of the Code of Ordinances of Charlton County, Georgia, is hereby amended to read as follows:…." The new provisions shall then be set out in full as desired.
(c)
If a new section not heretofore existing in the Code is to be added, the following language shall be used: "That the Code of Ordinances of Charlton County, Georgia, is hereby amended by adding a section (division, article or chapter) to be numbered _____, which section (division, article or chapter) reads as follows:…." The new section, division, article or chapter shall then be set out in full as desired.
(d)
All sections, divisions, articles, chapters or provisions desired to be repealed must be specifically repealed by section, division, article or chapter number, as the case may be.
(Code 1999, § 1-7)
Sec. 1-7. - Supplementation of Code.
(a)
By contract or by county personnel, supplements to this Code shall be prepared on an annual basis. A supplement to the Code shall include all substantive, permanent and general parts of ordinances passed by the board of commissioners during the period covered by the supplement and all changes made thereby in the Code. The pages of a supplement shall be so numbered that they will fit properly into the Code and will, where necessary, replace pages that have become obsolete or partially obsolete, and the new pages shall be so prepared that, when they have been inserted, the Code will be current through the date of the adoption of the latest ordinance included in the supplement.
(b)
In preparing a supplement to this Code, all portions of the Code which have been repealed shall be excluded from the Code by the omission thereof from reprinted pages.
(c)
When preparing a supplement to this Code, the codifier, meaning the person, agency or organization authorized to prepare the supplement, may make formal, nonsubstantive changes in ordinances and parts of ordinances included in the supplement, insofar as it is necessary to do so to embody them into a unified Code. For example, the codifier may:
(1)
Organize the ordinance material into appropriate subdivisions.
(2)
Provide appropriate catchlines, headings and titles for sections and other subdivisions of the Code printed in the supplement and make changes in such catchlines, headings and titles.
(3)
Assign appropriate numbers to sections and other subdivisions to be inserted in the Code and, where necessary to accommodate new material, change existing section or other subdivision numbers.
(4)
Change the terms "this ordinance" or terms of the same meaning to "this chapter," "this article," "this division," etc., as the case may be, or to "sections _____ through _____," inserting section numbers to indicate the sections of the Code which embody the substantive sections of the ordinance incorporated into the Code.
(5)
Make other nonsubstantive changes necessary to preserve the original meanings of ordinance sections inserted into the Code; but in no case shall the codifier make any change in the meaning or effect of ordinance material included in the supplement or already embodied in the Code.
(Code 1999, § 1-8)
Sec. 1-8. - Severability of parts of Code.
It is hereby declared to be the intention of the board of commissioners that the sections, paragraphs, sentences, clauses and phrases of this Code are severable, and if any phrase, clause, sentence, paragraph or section of this Code is declared unconstitutional, invalid or unenforceable by the valid judgment or decree of a court of competent jurisdiction, such unconstitutionality, invalidity or unenforceability shall not affect any of the remaining phrases, clauses, sentences, paragraphs and sections of this Code.
(Code 1999, § 1-9)
State Law reference— Severability, O.C.G.A. § 1-1-3.
Sec. 1-9. - Altering Code.
It shall be unlawful for any person to change or amend by additions or deletions any part or portion of this Code or to insert or delete pages or portions thereof, or to alter or tamper with this Code in any manner whatsoever which will cause the law of the city to be misrepresented thereby. Any person violating this section shall be punished as provided in sections 1-10 through 1-14.
(Code 1999, § 1-10)
State Law reference— Altering, falsifying or stealing public records unlawful, O.C.G.A. § 45-11-1.
Sec. 1-10. - Enforcement of Code; citation.
The sheriff of the county, the deputies thereof, constables, any lawfully appointed agent of the county and all other law enforcement officers shall be authorized to issue citations to violators of any provisions of this Code. Such citation shall state the time and place at which the accused is to appear for trial, shall identify the offense with which the accused is charged, shall have an identifying number by which it shall be filed with the court, shall indicate the identity of the accused and the date of service, and shall be signed by the officer who completes and serves it. Provided, however, violations or alleged violations of chapter 150 of this Code section may be cited and a citation as aforesaid, issued by the county building inspector.
(Code 1999, § 1-11; Ord. of 7-5-1990, § 2; Ord. of 8-2-2001)
Sec. 1-11. - Liability for violations by corporations, other associations.
(a)
Any violation of this Code by any officer, agent or other person acting for or employed by any corporation or unincorporated association or organization, while acting within the scope of his office or employment, shall in every case also be deemed to be a violation by such corporation, association or organization.
(b)
Any officer, agent or other person acting for or employed by any corporation or unincorporated association or organization shall be subject and liable to punishment as well as such corporation or unincorporated association or organization for the violation by it of any provisions of this Code, where such violation was the act or omission, or the result of the act, omission or order of any such person.
(Code 1999, § 1-12)
Sec. 1-12. - Court proceedings.
(a)
Violations of any section of this Code shall be tried upon citation as described in section 1-10 or upon accusation and may be tried with or without a prosecuting attorney. The county attorney, or an attorney who is a member of the state bar in good standing as designated by the board of county commissioners, shall serve as the prosecuting attorney.
(b)
Violations of this Code shall be tried in the magistrate court or state court of the county.
(c)
Each violation of this Code shall constitute a separate offense.
(Code 1999, § 1-13)
State Law reference— Magistrate courts, O.C.G.A. § 15-10-1 et seq.; violation of county ordinances, O.C.G.A. § 15-10-60 et seq.; punishment for misdemeanors, O.C.G.A. § 17-10-3; maximum punishments which may be imposed for violations of county ordinances, O.C.G.A. § 36-1-20(b); county responsibility for sentencing and maintenance of inmates, O.C.G.A. § 42-5-51(a).
Sec. 1-13. - General penalty.
(a)
In this section, the term "violation of this Code" means any of the following:
(1)
Doing an act that is prohibited or made or declared unlawful, an offense, a violation or a misdemeanor by ordinance, by statute adopted by reference in this Code, by state rule or regulation adopted by reference in this Code or by rule or regulation authorized by ordinance.
(2)
Failure to perform an act that is required to be performed by ordinance, by statute adopted by reference in this Code, by state rule or regulation adopted by reference in this Code or by rule or regulation authorized by ordinance.
(3)
Failure to perform an act if the failure is prohibited or is made or declared unlawful, an offense, a violation or a misdemeanor by ordinance, by statute adopted by reference in this Code, by state rule or regulation adopted by reference in this Code or by rule or regulation authorized by ordinance.
(b)
In this section, the term "violation of this Code" does not include the failure of a county officer or county employee to perform an official duty, unless it is specifically provided that the failure to perform the duty is to be punished as provided in this section.
(c)
Unless a higher penalty is otherwise specified, whenever in this Code or in any ordinance of the county any act is prohibited or is made or declared to be unlawful or an offense, or whenever in this Code or any ordinance the doing of any act is required and the failure to do such act is declared to be unlawful, and no specific penalty is provided, and unless otherwise provided by state law, the violation of any such provision of this Code or any such ordinance shall be punished by a fine not to exceed $1,000.00 and imprisonment in the county jail and work and labor on the streets or public works of the county, whether within or without the corporate limits, not to exceed six months, or both a fine and sentence of imprisonment and labor; and all sentences may be in the alternative and fines may be imposed with the alternative of sentence to imprisonment and labor if the fines are not paid. Each day any violation of this Code or of any ordinance shall continue shall constitute a separate offense.
(d)
Violations of this Code may be abated by injunctive or other equitable relief. The imposition of a penalty does not prevent injunctive relief.
(Code 1999, § 1-14; Ord. of 9-5-1991)
State Law reference— Punishment for misdemeanors generally, O.C.G.A. § 17-10-3; maximum sentences and fines which may be imposed for violation of municipal ordinance, O.C.G.A. § 36-35-6(a)(2).
Sec. 1-14. - Additional penalties.
(a)
In every case in which any court in this county, including any court of a municipality which has entered into the intergovernmental contract as provided for in this section, shall impose a fine, which shall be construed to include costs, for any offense against a criminal or traffic law of this state or any offense against a county or municipal ordinance, there shall be imposed as an additional penalty a sum equal to ten percent of the original fine.
(b)
At the time of posting bail or bond in any case involving a violation of a criminal or traffic law of this state or a violation of a county or municipal ordinance, an additional sum equal to ten percent of the original amount of bail or bond shall be posted. In every case in which any court of this county, including any court of a municipality which has entered into the intergovernmental contract as provided for in this section, shall order the forfeiture of bail or bond, the additional sum equal to ten percent of the original bail or bond shall be collected.
(c)
The additional penalties set forth in this section shall be in addition to that amount required by O.C.G.A. § 47-17-60 to be paid into the Peace Officers' Annuity and Benefit Fund, by O.C.G.A. § 47-11-51 to be paid into the Judges of Probate Courts Retirement Fund of Georgia, or by any other provision of law.
(d)
The additional penalties as prescribed in this section shall be assessed and collected by the clerk or court officer charged with the duty of collecting monies arising from fines and forfeited bonds. Such additional penalties shall be paid over to the board of commissioners by the tenth day of the month following the month in which these sums are collected.
(e)
All such sums collected and paid over to the board of commissioners shall be deposited into a special account which shall be known as the county jail fund.
(f)
All monies collected pursuant to this section and placed in the county jail fund shall be expended solely and exclusively for constructing, operating, and staffing the county correctional facilities, or for such other purposes as specified in O.C.G.A. § 15-21-95.
(g)
The additional penalties provided for by this section shall not be imposed or collected in any court operated by any municipality located in the county, unless the municipality and the county enter into an intergovernmental contract providing for use of the county jail, correctional institution or detention facility by municipal prisoners.
(h)
The chairperson of the county board of commissioners may execute on behalf of the county an intergovernmental contract with the City of Folkston concerning the imposition and collection of additional penalty assessments in criminal and traffic cases. Further, the county clerk may attest the contract on behalf of the county.
(Code 1999, § 1-15; Res. of 11-28-1989; Res. of 9-18-1990)
State Law reference— Additional penalty to be imposed in criminal and traffic cases to provide training to law enforcement officers and prosecuting officials, O.C.G.A. § 15-21-73; additional penalty assessments for jail construction and staffing, O.C.G.A. § 15-21-93; imposition of additional penalty for certain drug offenses, O.C.G.A. § 15-21-100; imposition of additional penalty for offense of driving under the influence of alcohol or drugs, O.C.G.A. § 15-21-112.
Sec. 1-15. - Interpretation of Code.
In all interpretations of this Code, and ordinances, the courts shall look diligently for the intention of the board of county commissioners, keeping in view, at all times, the old law, the evil and the remedy. Grammatical errors shall not vitiate, and a transposition of words and clauses may be resorted to when the sentence or clause is without meaning as it stands.
State Law reference— Similar provisions as to state laws, Ga. Code, § 1-3-1.
Sec. 1-16. - Substantive compliance with Code.
A substantial compliance with any requirement of this Code, or ordinances, on the part of public officers, shall be deemed and held sufficient, and no proceeding shall be declared void for want of such compliance, unless expressly so provided by the enactment.
Sec. 1-17. - Prior offenses, penalties and rights not affected by adoption of Code.
(a)
Nothing in this Code or the ordinance adopting this Code shall affect any offense or act committed or done or any penalty of forfeiture incurred or any contract or right established or accruing before the effective date of this Code.
(b)
Nothing contained in this chapter shall be construed as abating any action pending under or by virtue of any general ordinance of the county repealed in this chapter, and all general ordinances contained in this Code shall be deemed to be continuing and not a new enactment of the same ordinance. This chapter shall not be deemed as discontinuing, abating, modifying or altering any penalty accrued or to accrue or as affecting the liability of any person or as waiving any right of the county under any ordinance or section thereof in force at the time of the adoption of this Code.
Sec. 1-18. - Rates, charges and fees established.
(a)
Unless otherwise provided for, all rates, charges or fees necessary for the administration and enforcement of the provisions of this Code shall be as currently established or as hereafter adopted by motion, resolution or ordinance of the board of county commissioners, from time to time. Any rates, charges or fees established by the county pursuant to the regulations or requirements established herein may be changed from time to time by the board of county commissioners, and such changes shall both be considered an amendment to this Code.
(b)
Whenever any provision of this Code provides that a rate, charge or fee shall be established by the board of county commissioners, from time to time, and the amount of such rate, charge or fee is not expressed in this Code in any dollar amount, then the amount of such rate, charge or fee shall be the most recent and latest amount established, set or fixed by the board of county commissioners by ordinance, resolution or motion.
Sec. 1-19. - To provide for additional enforcement of county ordinances in the state court of the county.
All previously enacted ordinances of the county, the violation of which may result in incarceration, are hereby amended so that the term "State Court of Charlton County" may be inserted in place of the term "magistrates' court." Further, the solicitor of the state court is given all powers needed to prosecute the violation of all county ordinances, either in the state court or magistrates' court. It is the intent of this section to allow for prosecution of any ordinance violation which, as of the date of the execution hereof, may be prosecuted in the magistrates' court of the county in the state court of the county without depriving the magistrates' court of any jurisdiction previously conferred. Violations of any county ordinance henceforth may be prosecuted by summons, uniform traffic citation or accusation, as allowed by the laws of the state. This ordinance shall immediately become effective upon two readings in open meeting and provision to the public of an opportunity to be heard.
(Ord. of 5-10-2007)
Sec. 1-20. - Ordinances not affected by Code.
(a)
Nothing in this Code or the ordinance adopting this Code shall be construed to repeal or otherwise affect the validity of any of the following:
(1)
Any offense or act committed or done, any penalty or forfeiture incurred or any contract or right established or accruing before the effective date of this Code.
(2)
Any ordinance or resolution promising or guaranteeing the payment of money for the county or authorizing the issuance of any bonds of the county or any evidence of the county's indebtedness.
(3)
Any contract or obligation assumed by the county.
(4)
Any ordinance or resolution establishing or fixing the salaries, retirement and pension plans, benefits, personnel policy and/or administrative procedures for county officers or employees not otherwise enumerated in this Code.
(5)
Any right or franchise granted by the county.
(6)
Any ordinance dedicating, naming, establishing, locating, relocating, opening, widening, paving, etc., any street or public way in the county.
(7)
Any appropriation or budget ordinance.
(8)
Any ordinance which, by its own terms, is effective for a stated or limited term.
(9)
Any ordinance providing for local improvements and assessing taxes therefor.
(10)
Any zoning ordinance or ordinance rezoning specific property or amending the zoning map.
(11)
Any ordinance dedicating or accepting any subdivision plat or providing for subdivision regulations.
(12)
Any ordinance describing or altering the boundaries of the county.
(13)
The administrative ordinances, resolutions or motions of the county not in conflict or inconsistent with the provisions of this Code.
(14)
Any ordinance levying or imposing taxes not included in this Code.
(15)
Any ordinance establishing or prescribing street grades in the county.
(16)
Any ordinance or regulation prescribing traffic regulations for specific locations concerning through streets, parking limitations, parking prohibitions, one-way traffic, limitations on loads of vehicles or loading zones not in conflict or inconsistent with this Code.
(17)
Any ordinance or resolution of agreement with another political subdivision.
(18)
Any ordinance or resolution establishing or imposing any county rates, charges or fees for the county that are not otherwise enumerated in this Code.
(19)
Any ordinance or resolution that is temporary, although general in effect.
(20)
Any ordinance or resolution that is special, although permanent in effect.
(21)
Any ordinance or resolution, the purpose of which has been accomplished.
(b)
No such ordinance shall be construed to revive any ordinance or part thereof that has been repealed by a subsequent ordinance which is repealed by this chapter. All such ordinances are hereby recognized as continuing in full force and effect to the same extent as if set out at length in this Code.
(Code 1999, § 1-4)
Sec. 1-21. - Procedure for the adoption of ordinances.
There shall be two readings of each proposed ordinance at separate, meetings of the board of commissioners. Between the two meetings the title of the proposed ordinance shall be advertised twice in the legal organ of this county, and a copy shall be made available to any member of the public who requests same.
Upon final adoption of an ordinance, it shall be authenticated by the signature of the chairman of the board of commissioners and attested by the county clerk.
The county clerk shall see that all ordinances are codified and placed in the current Charlton County Code of Ordinances.
(Ord. No. 3 of 2016, § 1-21, 2-4-2016)
