Chapter 4 - ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES[1]
Footnotes:
--- (1) ---
State Law reference— Georgia Alcoholic Beverage Code, O.C.G.A. § 3-1-1 et seq.; authority to adopt rules and regulations relating to manufacture, sale and distribution of distilled spirits, O.C.G.A. § 3-4-49.

ARTICLE I. - IN GENERAL

Sec. 4-1. - Definitions.
(a)
The following words, terms and phrases, when used in this chapter, shall have the meanings ascribed to them in this section, except where the context clearly indicates a different meaning:
Package means a bottle, can, keg, barrel or other original consumer container.
Retail malt beverage dealer means and includes any person who engages in selling malt beverages at retail in the county without the corporate limits of any municipality located therein, and means and includes any person serving malt beverages for a pecuniary consideration in the county without the corporate limits of any municipality located therein.
Retail wine dealer means and includes any person who engages in selling wine at retail in the county without the corporate limits of any municipality located therein, and means and includes any person serving wine for a pecuniary consideration in the county without the corporate limits of any municipality located therein.
Sheriff means the sheriff or any deputy sheriff of the county.
Wholesale malt beverage dealer means any person engaged in distribution or selling malt beverages to a retail malt beverage dealer, and not directly to the consumers.
Wholesale wine dealer means any person engaged in distribution or selling wine to a retail wine dealer, and not directly to the consumers.
(b)
The definitions set forth in O.C.G.A. § 3-1-2 et seq. (Georgia Alcoholic Beverage Code—Definitions), as amended, shall be effective as definitions of the words, terms and phrases used in this chapter. All words, terms and phrases used herein, other than those specifically defined elsewhere in this chapter, shall have the respective meanings ascribed to them in O.C.G.A. § 3-1-2 et seq., as amended, and shall have the same scope and effect that the same words, terms and phrases have where used in O.C.G.A. § 3-1-2 et seq., as amended.
(Code 1999, § 3-1; Ord. of 9-3-1987, part I)
Sec. 4-2. - Violation of chapter prosecuted in magistrate court or state court.
Any person who shall violate any of the provisions of this chapter or who shall assist another in evading or avoiding payment of the fees and/or taxes imposed by this chapter shall be cited for these violations and tried in the county magistrate court or state court, in accordance with the provisions of state law for violations of county ordinances. Upon conviction, a sentence may be imposed according to the general penalties described section 1-13.
(Code 1999, § 3-2; Ord. of 9-3-1987, part VII, § 3)
Sec. 4-3. - Compliance with state law.
Each licensee under the provisions of this chapter shall comply with all applicable rules, regulations, laws and statutes of the state, and shall in addition thereto or in furtherance thereof:
(1)
Prohibit the sale, serving or consumption of malt beverages and wine in automobiles or other vehicles, or anywhere outside the main building or accessory thereto in which the business of such licensee is operated, excepting drive-in windows; and
(2)
Strictly adhere to the laws of the state respecting the sale of malt beverages and wine to persons under the age of 21, intoxicated persons or habitual drunkards.
(Code 1999, § 3-3; Ord. of 9-3-1987, part III, § 10(a), (b))
Sec. 4-4. - Compliance with chapter.
It shall be unlawful and a violation of this chapter for any retail malt beverages and/or wine dealer to own, hold, possess or sell any malt beverages and/or wine in the county without the corporate limits of any municipality located therein, unless all the terms and provisions of this chapter shall have first been complied with.
(Code 1999, § 3-4; Ord. of 9-3-1987, part III, § 14)
Sec. 4-5. - Liability of licensee.
No retail dealer for the sale of malt beverages and/or wine shall allow such malt beverages and/or wine to be consumed on his premises unless such dealer has a license for on-premises consumption. Any retail dealer with a license for off-premises consumption only shall be held responsible for such consumption by his customers or other parties.
(Code 1999, § 3-5; Ord. of 9-3-1987, part V, § 2)
Sec. 4-6. - Inspection of licensee's premises.
The business premises of a holder of a license for the sale of malt beverages, including outbuildings, shall be opened to inspection at any and all times by the sheriff.
(Code 1999, § 3-6; Ord. of 9-3-1987, Part V, § 1)
Sec. 4-7. - Copy of chapter to be on premises.
Each holder of a license for the sale of malt beverages and/or wine shall keep a copy of this chapter on his premises and instruct any person working there with respect to its terms. Each licensee and person selling such beverages shall, at all times, be familiar with the terms of this chapter.
(Code 1999, § 3-7; Ord. of 9-3-1987, part V, § 3)
Sec. 4-8. - Sign posted on premises.
The holder of a license for the retail sale of malt beverages and/or wine shall post in a conspicuous place in his place of business a notice with letters not less than four inches in height which shall be clearly visible to all customers entering the establishment as follows:
"Sale of malt beverages to persons under the age of 21 is strictly prohibited. Warning: Drinking alcoholic beverages during pregnancy can cause birth defects."
(Code 1999, § 3-8; Ord. of 9-3-1987, part VII, § 1)
State Law reference— Posting of warning by retailer that consumption of alcohol during pregnancy is dangerous, O.C.G.A. § 3-1-5; posting of laws concerning sales to underage persons O.C.G.A. § 3-3-24.2.
Sec. 4-9. - Minors on premises.
(a)
A holder of a license for on-premises consumption shall not permit a minor, i.e., a person under the age of 18, to be on or about the licensed premises.
(b)
It shall be unlawful for any licensee to allow or require a person in his employment under 18 years of age to dispense, serve, sell or take orders for malt beverages or wine; provided, however, that the provisions of this section shall not prohibit persons under 18 years of age who are employed in supermarkets, convenience stores or drugstores from selling or handling malt beverages or wine which are sold for consumption off the premises.
(Code 1999, § 3-9; Ord. of 9-3-1987, part III, § 10(c), (d))
Sec. 4-10. - Advertising by signs.
Wholesale dealers or retail dealers will be allowed to advertise malt beverages by use of signs under the following conditions:
(1)
Only one sign will be allowed for each business establishment, which sign may be double-faced.
(2)
The maximum dimensions for any sign shall be four feet in height and six feet in width.
(3)
Lighted signs shall be permitted.
(4)
All signs advertising malt beverages must be located on the premises of the establishment selling malt beverages.
(Code 1999, § 3-10; Ord. of 9-3-1987, part VII, § 2)
Sec. 4-11. - Hours of sale.
(a)
No malt beverages or wine will be sold between the hours of 12:00 midnight on Saturday night until the hour of 6:00 a.m. on Monday morning. No malt beverages shall be sold between the hours of 2:00 a.m. and 8:00 a.m. on any day by a holder of a license for on-premises consumption.
(b)
No malt beverages shall be sold on election day or any other day on which the sale of malt beverages may be prohibited by state law. An election day, for the purposes of this chapter, is hereby defined as that period of time beginning one hour prior to the opening of the polls and ending one hour after the closing of the polls. The prohibition against the sale of malt beverages to any person on election days shall apply only within the territorial boundaries for which the election is being held.
(c)
Malt beverages may be sold at any time not specifically prohibited in this section.
(Code 1999, § 3-11; Ord. of 9-3-1987, part IV, § 1)
Sec. 4-12. - Excise taxes.
(a)
Malt beverages. There is hereby imposed upon each wholesale dealer of malt beverages an excise tax in the amount as set forth in O.C.G.A. § 3-5-80.
(b)
Wine. There is imposed an excise tax upon each wholesale dealer of wine by the package in the amount of $0.22 per liter and a proportionate tax at the same rate on all fractional parts of a liter.
(c)
Collection. All wholesalers and distributors of malt beverage and/or wine wholesaling and/or distributing such commodity in the county shall add the amount of tax to be collected thereon, computed as provided in this section, to the invoice of sale to any and all retailers in the county, outside any municipality located therein, and remit the amount of such tax so computed to be due to the treasury of the county direct to the commission clerk, less the sum of five percent of such tax which is hereby allowed for the collection of such tax. Such wholesalers and/or distributors shall furnish the clerk of county commissioners copies of all such invoices together with the amount of tax so collected at the time of payment of such taxes which shall be made and filed with the clerk on or before the tenth day of each and every month. The records of wholesalers and/or distributors shall be made available periodically to a duly authorized agent of the county for inspection and confirmation of the taxes collected as provided in this article.
(Code 1999, § 3-12; Ord. of 9-3-1987, part III, § 12)
State Law reference— Imposition of excise tax on malt beverages, O.C.G.A. § 3-5-80; authorization to levy tax on wine, O.C.G.A. § 3-6-60.
Secs. 4-13—4-42. - Reserved.
ARTICLE II. - LICENSES[2]

Footnotes:
--- (2) ---
State Law reference— Governing authority shall set forth ascertainable standards pertaining to the granting, refusal, suspension or revocation of alcoholic beverage permits or licenses, O.C.G.A. § 3-3-2.

Sec. 4-43. - Issuance prerequisite to selling alcoholic beverages.
No malt beverages or wine may be sold in the county except under a license issued in accordance with this article. Such privilege shall be held and enjoyed by the licensee only so long as the licensee complies with the requirements of this article and pays all required fees and taxes.
(Code 1999, § 3-41; Ord. of 9-3-1987, part III, §§ 1, 15)
Sec. 4-44. - Application—Form, contents.
(a)
Each application for a license for the sale of malt beverages and/or wine shall be made in person at the office of the clerk of the board of commissioners and shall be accompanied by a completed form furnished for this purpose by such clerk, which application shall contain the following information:
(1)
Full name, address and telephone number of the applicant and whether the applicant is an individual, partnership or corporation. If the applicant is a partnership, the name and address of each partnership must be shown.
(2)
Location or address of the place of business at which the applicant will engage in the retail of malt beverage and/or wine business if and when permission to do so is granted by the county commission and a license is issued.
(3)
Each applicant shall list in his application the name, home address, home telephone number and present place of employment of the person who will be employed by him as manager of the place of business for which the license is requested. No one shall be allowed to serve in a supervisory and/or managerial position who has, within five years immediately prior to the filing of the application, entered a plea of guilty, a plea of nolo contendere, or shall have suffered any conviction of a felony or any crime involving moral turpitude or involving alcohol control laws of this state, the United States, or any other state. Thereafter, if any person other than the person listed in the application as manager shall be employed as manager, the name, address and telephone number of the new manager shall be furnished to the clerk of the board of commissioners within five days from the date of employment of the new manager.
(4)
Such other information as the clerk of the county commission, under the direction of the board of commissioners, may from time to time require.
(b)
The applicant shall set forth in detail, under oath, such information as may be required.
(Code 1999, § 3-42; Ord. of 9-3-1987, part II, § 2-A)
Sec. 4-45. - Same—Notice.
(a)
The clerk of the commission shall cause a notice to appear in the official organ of the county for two weeks, once each week, that an application for a license required by this article has been made. The notice shall contain the name of the applicant, the address or location of the premises from where the sale will occur and the date and time when the application will be considered by the commission. The notice shall not be required for the renewal of any existing license.
(b)
The clerk shall collect the cost of publishing a notice from the applicant at the time the application is made and before submitting the notice for publication to cover the administrative cost and cost of publication. This cost is not a part of a renewed application.
(Code 1999, § 3-43; Ord. of 9-3-1987, part II, § 3)
Sec. 4-46. - Applicant, owner and manager to be same person.
An individual applicant for a license required by this article must be the person who owns and manages the business where the sales of malt beverages and/or wine will occur.
(Code 1999, § 3-44; Ord. of 9-3-1987, part II, § 1)
Sec. 4-47. - Fingerprinting.
(a)
At the time any application for a license required by this article is filed at the office of the clerk of the board of commissioners, and as a prerequisite to the issuance of any license under the provisions of this article, the applicant shall have a complete set of his fingerprints made by the sheriff or his designee, which shall be forwarded to the state bureau of investigation who shall search the files of the state crime information center for a period of two years immediately preceding the date of such application for any instance of criminal activity, and the state bureau of investigation shall submit such fingerprints to the Federal Bureau of Investigation under the rules established by the United States Department of Justice for processing and identification records. Such record, if any, shall be obtained and returned to the governing authorities submitting such fingerprints.
(b)
If the license is to be issued to a firm or corporation, fingerprints shall be made by the sheriff or his designee and forwarded for investigation as set forth in subsection (a) of this section for all persons who will serve in a supervisory and/or managerial position with respect to the sale of malt beverages. If the firm or corporation changes the person in such supervisory and/or managerial position during any year, and designates such functions to a person who has not previously been responsible for such functions, referred to in this section as new person, then such firm or corporation shall notify the clerk of the commissioners, in writing, of the change in such supervisory and/or managerial personnel, giving the name, address of the new person, his address, the effective date of the change and shall furnish the clerk with the fingerprints of the new person. The notification and furnishing of the fingerprints shall be within five regular business days of the commissioners. Should the fingerprints or investigation of the new person reveal that he is objectionable, the commission shall notify the licensee immediately, upon the receipt of the notice, that the new person shall not serve in such capacity with the licensee until authorized by the commissioners. The licensee may appeal such objections to the commissioners within three days of the receipt of such notice, by delivering written notice of the appeal of the clerk. As soon as possible, the commissioners will hear evidence on such appeal, but the new person shall not serve in such capacity until and unless authorized by the commissioners.
(Code 1999, § 3-45; Ord. of 9-3-1987, part II, § 2-B)
Sec. 4-48. - Legal status of applicant.
In no event shall any license be granted to any person where any of the individuals or any of the corporate officers, directors or majority stockholders, as the case may be, have, within ten years immediately prior to the filing of the applications, entered a plea of guilty, a plea of nolo contendere, or shall have suffered any conviction of a felony or crime involving moral turpitude or involving alcohol control laws of this state, the United States, or any other state. Should any licensee, partner, officer, director or a majority stockholder of a licensed corporation, after a license has been granted, be convicted or plead guilty or nolo contendere to a felony or a crime involving moral turpitude or to a violation of any laws of the United States or of this state relating to alcohol, the licenses issued to such licensee shall stand revoked and cancelled.
(Code 1999, § 3-46; Ord. of 9-3-1987, part II, § 4)
Sec. 4-49. - Conditions affecting granting of license.
(a)
The board of commissioners shall consider any extenuating circumstances which may reflect favorably or unfavorably on an applicant for a license required by this article, the application or the proposed location of the business. If, in their judgment, circumstances are such that the granting of the license would not be in the best interest of the general public, such circumstances may be grounds for denying the application.
(b)
In considering an application, the commissioners shall consider the following factors before making any decision on an application:
(1)
Is there any statutory prohibition in the law of the state against the issuance of such a license to such person at such location?
(2)
Is the proposed location primarily a residential neighborhood or business neighborhood?
(3)
Are there schools, churches and numerous dwelling houses in the immediate vicinity of the proposed license site?
(4)
Are there other such malt beverage or wine licenses in the immediate neighborhood of the proposed site?
(5)
Would the issuance of such a license be compatible to the neighborhood as it is now constituted?
(6)
Would the issuance of such a license in such location tend to diminish the property values of the adjoining lands?
(Code 1999, § 3-47; Ord. of 9-3-1987, part II, § 5)
Sec. 4-50. - Proximity of applicant's business to churches, schools.
No application for a license to sell malt beverages or wine shall be approved where the proposed location is within 1,000 feet of a church, school or college campus, or school grounds teaching subjects commonly taught in the public schools of the state. In determining compliance with this section, the distance shall be determined by measuring in a straight line from the nearest point of the school or church building to the nearest point of the building where malt beverages and/or wine are being sold, with the exception that if a school or college is involved the measurement is to be from the school playground or campus to the building.
(Code 1999, § 3-48; Ord. of 9-3-1987, part II, § 6-A)
State Law reference— Sales of alcoholic beverages near churches, schools or college campuses, O.C.G.A. § 3-3-21.
Sec. 4-51. - Proximity of retailers where consumption occurs to occupied dwellings.
No application for a license to sell malt beverages or wine which may be consumed on the premises of the sale shall be approved where the proposed location is within 500 feet of any house which is then occupied or regularly occupied.
(Code 1999, § 3-49; Ord. of 9-3-1987, part II, § 6-B)
Sec. 4-52. - Grandfathering in of certain premises.
No application for a license required by this article or for renewal shall be denied by reason of closeness to a church, school or residence or inadequate lighting as required under the provisions of this article if a license was granted prior to June 30, 1987, in reliance on the prior county malt beverage and wine license ordinance, and the premises have remained licensed without interruption. Further, any premises licensed under this article shall not be denied for licensing by reason that a house, school or church has been erected within the prohibited distance after the licensed establishment was opened, and it continued in operation without interruption.
(Code 1999, § 3-50; Ord. of 9-3-1987, part VII, § 5)
Sec. 4-53. - Completion of premises, plans prerequisite to issuance.
(a)
Plans to be attached to application. No retail license for the sale of malt beverages or wine shall be issued to any person unless the building in which the business will be located is complete and detailed plans of such building and outside premises are attached to the application. The completed building or proposed building shall comply with this Code, regulations of the state revenue commissioner and the laws of the state.
(b)
Final inspection and approval of building. A proposed building shall also be subject to a final inspection and approval when completed by the appropriate county official. Where the applicant has fulfilled all qualifications other than the completion of the building, the license may be approved subject to the satisfactory completion of the building in accordance with the plans presented, with the actual issuance of the license deferred until completion of the building and final inspection by the appropriate county official.
(c)
Lighting required. Each building in which the business will be located shall have sufficient lighting so that the building itself and the premises on all sides with entrances of the building are readily visible at all times from the front of the street on which the building is located and all of the outside premises of such building are revealed. All parking areas around such places shall be brightly lighted by a security-type light.
(d)
Evidence of ownership or leasing to be attached to application. Each applicant for a retail license shall attach to his application evidence of ownership of the building or proposed building or a copy of the lease if the applicant is leasing the building.
(Code 1999, § 3-51; Ord. of 9-3-1987, part II, § 6-C)
Sec. 4-54. - Payment of fees, taxes required for issuance.
No license shall be issued pursuant to this article unless the applicant therefor shall have fully paid all license fees and ad valorem taxes due to the county.
(Code 1999, § 3-52; Ord. of 9-3-1987, part III, § 18)
Sec. 4-55. - Fees—Amounts.
For each license year commencing January 1 and ending December 31, there is hereby levied and imposed a special privilege and license fee in an amount annually as established by the board of county commissioners from time to time.
(1)
For each retail malt beverage and wine dealer applying for a license for on-premises consumption.
(2)
For each retail malt beverage and wine dealer applying for a license for off-premises consumption only.
(3)
For each wholesale dealer's license.
(Code 1999, § 3-53; Ord. of 9-3-1987, part III, §§ 11, 12)
Sec. 4-56. - Same—Payment.
The license fees required by this article shall be paid by certified check attached to the application, initial or renewal, for the license as required by the provisions of this article. If the commission denies the application for license, the license fee shall be returned to the applicant.
(Code 1999, § 3-54; Ord. of 9-3-1987, part II, § 3, part III, § 13)
Sec. 4-57. - Off- or on-premises consumption—Designation generally.
All licenses approved, authorized and issued under the provisions of this article shall authorize the retail sale of malt beverages and wine either for off-premises consumption only or for on-premises consumption.
(Code 1999, § 3-55; Ord. of 9-3-1987, part III, § 4)
Sec. 4-58. - Same—Marked on license.
All licenses approved, authorized and issued on and after the effective date of the ordinance from which this section is derived shall be plainly and conspicuously marked either "For Off-Premises Consumption Only" or "For On-Premises Consumption."
(Code 1999, § 3-56; Ord. of 9-3-1987, part III, § 5)
Sec. 4-59. - Same—Stores, outlets, etc.
All licenses approved, authorized and issued for retail supermarkets, grocery stores, quick food outlets or other similar retail stores shall be plainly and conspicuously marked "For Off-Premises Consumption Only."
(Code 1999, § 3-57; Ord. of 9-3-1987, part III, § 6)
Sec. 4-60. - Same—Lounges, etc.
All licenses approved, authorized and issued for malt beverage parlors, lounges or other similar establishments shall be plainly and conspicuously marked "For On-Premises Consumption."
(Code 1999, § 3-58; Ord. of 9-3-1987, part III, § 7)
Sec. 4-61. - Intent of licensing authority.
It is the intention of the licensing authority in the adoption of the ordinance from which this chapter is derived to prohibit the consumption of malt beverages or wine on the premises of any retail outlet under the authority of any license held under section 4-59 and to permit the consumption of any malt beverages or wine on the premises of any retail outlet under the authority of any license held under section 4-60.
(Code 1999, § 3-59; Ord. of 9-3-1987, part III, § 8)
Sec. 4-62. - Number of on-premises licenses restricted.
In the exercise of its judgment and discretion, after giving thorough consideration to all the implications involved, and keeping always in mind the public interest and the welfare of the citizens of the county, a limitation on the total number of licenses issued for on-premises consumption is hereby established. Notwithstanding any other provisions set forth in this article for the issuance of a license for the sale of malt beverages and/or wine, there shall only be issued 11 licenses for on-premises consumption until the population of the county outside the corporate limits of the municipalities reaches 5,946, at which time such licenses shall be issued on the basis of one license per 540 persons.
(Code 1999, § 3-60; Ord. of 9-3-1987, part III, § 9)
Sec. 4-63. - Display.
Each person holding a license issued pursuant to this article shall display the license prominently at all times on the premises for which the license is issued.
(Code 1999, § 3-61; Ord. of 9-3-1987, part VII, § 6)
Sec. 4-64. - Transfer; closure of business.
No license for the sale of malt beverages shall be transferable, and if a licensed business is sold or closed, the licensee must immediately surrender his license to the sheriff. All licenses shall be issued to specific persons and shall be applicable to and valid with respect only to the business location referred to therein.
(Code 1999, § 3-62; Ord. of 9-3-1987, part III, § 2)
Sec. 4-65. - Renewal—Expiration date, application, fee; review by county attorney.
(a)
All licenses granted pursuant to this article shall expire on December 31 of each year. Licensees who desire to renew their license shall file an application with the required fee with the clerk of the commissioners on the form provided for the renewal of the license for the ensuing year. The county shall mail renewal notices by October 15, and applications for renewal must be filed no later than November 30 of each year; otherwise, no renewal license shall be granted but an applicant shall be required to comply with all rules and regulations for the granting of licenses as if no previous license had been held. All licenses granted shall be for the calendar year and a full license fee shall be paid for a license issued prior to July 1 of each year. One-half of the full license fee shall be paid for a license after July 1 of each year. No refund shall be made upon the revocation or suspension of any license.
(b)
The county attorney is hereby designated and granted the authority and duty to review the applications for renewal of malt beverages and wine licenses. Upon the review of such license applications, if the designee finds that there has been no change from the previous year of the requirements of the malt beverages and wine sale and this article, then the attorney or his designee is directed to reissue the license for the following year. If changes have been made, the license renewal application is to be denied.
(Code 1999, § 3-63; Ord. of 9-3-1987, part III, §§ 3, 19; Ord. of 12-3-1998)
Sec. 4-66. - Same—Denial due to adverse conditions.
Should the holder of a license required by this article carry on his business in such a way that the conduct of that business creates a continuing public disturbance, traffic congestion and/or obnoxious loud noises, his license will be given careful review by the commission upon application for renewal. If the commission finds there has been just and substantial complaints made with or by the sheriff, the licensee shall be warned and informed to eliminate the adverse conditions existing on, at or around the licensed premises. After warning, should the licensee fail to eliminate the adverse conditions, the commission will be authorized to refuse to renew a license to such licensee and/or to such licensed premises.
(Code 1999, § 3-64; Ord. of 9-3-1987, part VII, § 7)
Sec. 4-67. - Violations—Confiscation of license; right to hearing.
(a)
The sheriff or his lawful deputies shall be authorized, if at any time the holder of a license for the sale of malt beverages and wine shall be found in violation of this chapter or in violation of any of the state and federal laws or regulations, to pick up the license and present to the clerk of the board of commissioners with a written report stating the violation.
(b)
The licensee shall have the right to call for a hearing within ten days or such other time as the commissioners shall designate. Should a hearing be so called for, such hearing must be held within 72 hours of requesting it, exclusive of Sundays. If a hearing is not held within such time, then the license shall be returned until further action by the commission.
(c)
The owner or employees shall cease to sell malt beverages and wine until the matter is concluded.
(Code 1999, § 3-66; Ord. of 9-3-1987, part VI, § 2-B)
Sec. 4-68. - Same—Temporary suspension.
A license for the sale of malt beverages and wine may be temporarily suspended, and the place of business closed if the license is for on-premises consumption, upon receipt of evidence by the board of commissioners from the sheriff of any violation referred to in this chapter.
(Code 1999, § 3-67; Ord. of 9-3-1987, part VI, § 2-A)
Sec. 4-69. - Same—Penalties.
(a)
Any license for the sale of malt beverages and wine may be suspended for a definite length of time, revoked and/or personal performance bond posted by the licensee forfeited in whole or in part.
(b)
No license shall be revoked and no bond shall be forfeited unless the licensee has been given at least three days' written notice, in person or by registered mail, of the intention of the board of commissioners to take such action. Such notice shall specify the time, place and purposes of the hearing and a statement of the charges upon which the commissioners propose to take action. At such hearings conducted by the commissioners, the licensee shall have the right to appear in person and by attorney, and the sheriff, county attorney or the commissioners, and the licensee shall have the right to present evidence relating to the question as to whether or not a violation, as set forth in this chapter, has occurred, as well as evidence relating to any extenuating or mitigating circumstances.
(c)
After consideration of such evidence, the commissioners shall, by a majority, determine whether the license shall be revoked and whether the personal performance bond shall be forfeited or whether the license shall be suspended for a definite length of time not to exceed one-half of the remaining license year.
(Code 1999, § 3-68; Ord. of 9-3-1987, part VI, §§ 3—5)
Sec. 4-70. - Same—Grounds for revocation.
(a)
Violations generally. The performance of any act prohibited by this chapter or the failure to perform any act required by this chapter, as well as the violation of any law, state or federal, relating to the sale of malt beverages and wine shall constitute grounds for revocation of a license and for the refusal thereafter to issue again any license to a violator under this article.
(b)
False information. The making of any statement on an application for a license to sell malt beverages and wine which shall be later found to be false shall constitute grounds for revocation of the license.
(Code 1999, § 3-69; Ord. of 9-3-1987, part III, §§ 16, 17, part VI, § 1)
Sec. 4-71. - Same—Disposal of merchandise in lieu of hearing.
If the licensee does not desire a hearing as specified in section 4-67 before the board of commissioners or fails to appear, the sheriff shall be authorized to then permit the owner to dispose of the merchandise within a ten-day period, to be designated by the sheriff and under his supervision. Such merchandise may not be sold except in bulk only.
(Code 1999, § 3-70; Ord. of 9-3-1987, part VI, § 6)
