PART I - LOCAL ACTS AND RELATED LAWS[1]
Footnotes:
--- (1) ---
Editor's note— Part I contains local constitutional amendments and state laws of local application that apply to the county. Obvious misspellings have been corrected without notation. The title, enactment, severability, repealer, transitional, ratification, publication and effective date provisions have been omitted, and where a section has been amended or repealed by a later provision, only the current language has been printed. For stylistic purposes, the same style of expression of numbers in text as appears in the Code of Ordinances has been used. A consistent scheme of capitalization has also been used. Section catchlines have been editorially supplied in certain instances. Additions made for clarity are indicated by brackets.

ARTICLE I. - BOARD OF COMMISSIONERS[2]
An Act to create a board of commissioners for the County of Charlton, State of Georgia, to provide for the selection of the members thereof, to prescribe their powers, duties, compensation, and for other purposes.

Footnotes:
--- (2) ---
Editor's note— Printed herein is the act of the general assembly approved August 4, 1927, which created the board of commissioners as adopted and set forth in 1927 Ga. Laws (Act No. 126), page 529. Amendments to the original act are indicated by parenthetical history notes following amended provisions. The absence of a history note indicates that the provision derives unchanged from the original act. The words "roads and revenues" were stricken from the official names of all governing authorities of the counties of the state pursuant to O.C.G.A. § 36-5-20.
State Law reference— Home rule for counties, Ga. Const. art. IX, § II, ¶ I; supplemental powers of municipalities and counties enumerated, Ga. Const. art. IX, § II, ¶ III; counties a body corporate and politic, Ga. Const. art. IX, § I, ¶ I; county officers, election, term, compensation, Ga. Const. art. IX, § I, ¶ III; power of county governing authority to fix salary and compensation of persons employed by governing authority, Ga. const. art. IX, § II, ¶ I(f); county a body corporate, O.C.G.A. § 36-1-3; organization of county government, O.C.G.A. § 36-5-20 et seq.; matters over which county commission has jurisdiction, O.C.G.A. § 36-5-22.1; grants of state funds to counties, O.C.G.A. § 36-17-1.

Sec. 1. - [Created; membership; elections.]
(a)
There is created the board of commissioners of Charlton County, which shall be composed of five members. One member shall be elected from each of the five commissioner districts provided in section 2 of this Act.
(b)
Persons seeking membership on the board shall be registered electors eligible to vote for members of the general assembly, shall have resided in Charlton County for at least one year immediately preceding their election, and shall have resided in their respective districts for at least six months immediately preceding their election. Otherwise, such persons must possess the qualifications as provided by law.
(c)
Each district position on the board of commissioners shall be elected only by the qualified electors of the district. Only the qualified electors of a district shall be entitled to vote for candidates seeking membership on the board from that district. It shall be expressly permissible for more than one precinct to be established within a commissioner district.
(d)
Upon election, if a member moves such member's residence from the district from which elected, such member's position on the board shall automatically become vacant.
(1941 Ga. Laws (Act No. 397), page 810; 1947 Ga. Laws (Act No. 266), page 995; 1959 Ga. Laws (Act No. 147), page 2405; 1963 Ga. Laws (Act No. 460), page 3416; 1974 Ga. Laws (Act No. 1222), page 3505; 1987 Ga. Laws (Act No. 408), page 5042)
Sec. 2. - [Commissioner districts.]
(a)
(1)
For the purposes of electing members of the board of commissioners, Charlton County shall be divided into and correspond to those five numbered districts described in and attached to and made a part of this Act and further identified as Plan Name: charccsb6 Plan Type: Local User: Blake Administrator: Charlton.
(2)
When used in such attachment, the terms "tract" and "BG" (Block Group) shall mean and describe the same geographical boundaries as provided in the report of the Bureau of the Census for the United States Decennial Census of 2000 for the State of Georgia. The separate numeric designations in a tract description which are underneath a "BG" heading shall mean and describe individual Blocks within a Block Group as provided in the report of the Bureau of the Census for the United States Decennial Census of 2000 for the State of Georgia. Any part of Charlton County which is not included in any such district described in that attachment shall be included within that district contiguous to such part which contains the least population according to the United States Decennial Census of 2000 for the State of Georgia. Any part of Charlton County which is described in that attachment as being in a particular district shall nevertheless not be included within such district if such part is not contiguous to such district. Such noncontiguous part shall instead be included within that district contiguous to such part which contains the least population according to the United States Decennial Census of 2000 for the State of Georgia. Except as otherwise provided in the description of any commissioner district, whenever the description of such district refers to a named city, it shall mean the geographical boundaries of that city as shown on the census map for the United States Decennial Census of 2000 for the State of Georgia.
(b)
Unless otherwise stated in the descriptions, where the boundaries of districts fall on streets, roads, waterways, or other geographical boundaries which do not serve as boundary lines for militia districts, the boundary lines of the districts follow the centerlines of such streets, roads, waterways, or other geographical boundaries.
(c)
Any references in district descriptions to the corporate limits of the City of Folkston shall mean the corporate limits as the same existed on March 31, 1986.
(d)
Any part of Charlton County which is not included in any commissioner district described in this section shall be included in that district contiguous to such part which contains the least population according to the 1980 United States Decennial Census or any future such census.
(1941 Ga. Laws (Act No. 397), page 810; 1947 Ga. Laws (Act No. 266), page 995; 1959 Ga. Laws (Act No. 147), page 2405; 1963 Ga. Laws (Act No. 460), page 3416; 1974 Ga. Laws (Act No. 1222), page 3505; 1987 Ga. Laws (Act No. 408), page 5042; 1992 Ga. Laws (Act No. 906), page 5910; 1994 Ga. Laws (Act No. 648), page 3625; 2007 Ga. Laws (HB 724), page 3694)
Editor's note— The attachment referred to as "Plan Name: charccsb6 Plan Type: Local User: Blake Administrator: Charlton," has been omitted from this printing at the discretion of the editor. It may be found at 2007 Ga. Laws (HB 724), page 3694, and is available for public examination in the county offices.
Sec. 3. - [Elections; terms.]
(a)
The members of the board of commissioners who were elected at the general election in November 1986 shall continue in office for the terms to which they were elected and until successors are elected and qualified as provided in this section. The remaining members shall continue in office until December 31, 1988, and until successors are elected and qualified as provided in this section.
(b)
At the general election to be held in November 1988 there shall be elected members from commissioner districts 2 and 3. Such members shall take office on January 1 following their election for terms of four years and until successors are elected and qualified.
(c)
At the general election to be held in November 1990 there shall be elected members from commissioner districts 1, 4, and 5. Such members shall take office on January 1 following their election for terms of four years and until successors are elected and qualified.
(d)
Successors to members elected under subsections (b) and (c) of this section shall be elected at the general election next preceding the expiration of terms of office and shall take office on January 1 following their election for terms of four years and until successors are elected and qualified.
(e)
All elections shall be conducted in accordance with chapter 2 of title 21 of the O.C.G.A., the Georgia Election Code [O.C.G.A. § 21-2-1 et seq.].
(1963 Ga. Laws (Act No. 460), page 3416; 1987 Ga. Laws (Act No. 408), page 5042)
[Secs. 3B, 4. - Reserved.]
Editor's note— Sections 3B and 4 were deleted by 1987 Ga. Laws (Act No. 408), page 5042.
Sec. 5. - [Vacancies.]
Be it further enacted by the authority aforesaid that should a vacancy, from death, resignation, removal from the county or district, or otherwise, occur on said board of commissioners, the same shall be filled by appointment of the judge of the Superior Court of said County of Charlton until a new member is elected to fill the vacancy at the next primary election, general election, or special election held for that purpose.
(1980 Ga. Laws (Act No. 1345), page 4358)
Sec. 6. - [Reserved.]
Sec. 7. - [Meetings.]
Be it further enacted by the authority aforesaid, that said board of commissioners shall hold a regular meeting in each month. At the first meeting each year, or as soon thereafter as practicable, the board of commissioners shall organize by setting the date and time for the regular monthly meetings to be held that year and by electing one of the members as chairperson and one as vice-chairperson. Any chairperson or vice-chairperson shall hold his or her office until his or her successor is elected, and nothing herein shall prevent the re-election of any chairperson or vice-chairperson. The vice-chairperson shall, in the absence or disqualification of the chairperson or during the vacancy in office of chairperson, perform and discharge all of the duties of the chairperson, and in the event of a vacancy in the office of chairperson or vice-chairperson, the same shall be filled by the board at its next regular meeting after such vacancy becomes known. The chairperson shall be the chief executive of the board. He or she shall see that all orders, resolutions, and rules of said board are faithfully filled and impartially executed and enforced, and that all the officers, employees, and agents of said board faithfully and impartially discharge the duties required of them. He or she shall have the general supervision of the affairs of the county, acting under orders of the board, and shall preside at all meetings of the board. The chairperson shall have the power to convene the board in extra session upon his or her own motion or upon the written request of the other four members of the board, and shall do so whenever the other four members make such request in writing.
(1929 Ga. Laws (Act No. 184), page 559; 1959 Ga. Laws (Act No. 147), page 2405; 1962 Ga. Laws (Act No. 1007), page 3210; 1970 Ga. Laws (Act No. 1035), page 2757; 1982 Ga. Laws, page 5120; 2012 Ga. Laws (HB 1282), § 1)
Sec. 8. - [Reserved.]
Sec. 9. - [Clerk elected; duties.]
Be it further enacted by the authority aforesaid that said board of commissioners shall at their first regular meeting on the first Monday in January 1928, or as soon thereafter as practical, and every two years thereafter on the first Monday in January, elect a clerk at a salary to be fixed by the commissioners. The board of commissioners shall cause the clerk to keep proper and accurate books of minutes wherein shall appear all acts, orders, and proceedings of the board, and shall also cause him to keep full and accurate books of accounts wherein shall appear in detail all orders, warrants and other proceedings drawn by the board of commissioners on the county treasury or depository, for what purpose and on what fund, and all such orders and warrants shall be so drawn as to specify the purpose and on what fund drawn. Said books and records shall be so kept as to show at all times the financial condition of the county, and shall be open to inspection by any citizen as taxpayer of the county or of any other person interested in the same. The clerk shall also keep a book or inventory of all county property, including road machinery, livestock, chain-gang outfits, road-working tools and every other kind and class of property belonging to said county, together with fair valuation of the same, where located, in whose custody, and in what condition, which inventory shall be carefully revised each year; and the clerk shall keep such other books [and] records as may be necessary, or as the board may order, and shall perform generally all and singular the acts and duties necessary to be performed by him as such clerk, and such other duties as said board of commissioners may require. Said board may discharge said clerk at any time and elect a successor.
Sec. 10. - [Purchase of supplies.]
Be it further enacted by the authority aforesaid that the board of commissioners, either themselves or duly appointed agents, shall purchase all equipment, materials, and supplies of said county, of such kind and quality and in such quantities as they may direct; and wherever practical, purchases of all equipment, materials, and supplies shall be by competitive bids, which bids shall be kept on file in the office of the commissioners and subject to inspection by the grand jury or other interested citizens. All purchases shall be charged to Charlton County; and before bills therefor are submitted to the board for approval, they shall be audited and payment therefor recommended by the parties making such purchase; and if approved by the board of commissioners at a regular meeting therefor, said approval shall be endorsed on said bills by the chairman and a list thereof entered upon the minutes of the board, and when this is done warrants therefor shall be regularly drawn, which warrant shall be signed by the chairman and clerk, as all other warrants drawn on the treasury of the county depository shall be signed, before payment thereof is made, except that in the absence of the chairman said vice-chairman shall be authorized to sign warrants on the county treasury or depository.
Sec. 11. - [Superintendent of roads and bridges elected; duties.]
Be it further enacted by the authority aforesaid that said board of commissioners may, at their discretion and when they deem necessary, elect a superintendent of roads and bridges to be selected on account of his efficiency and knowledge and skill in practical road building. The superintendent may also be [a] convict warden; but aside from his duties as warden, if elected to that position, he shall not engage in any other business, trade, or calling which will require any of his time as superintendent of roads and bridges and convict warden. This officer shall have charge of laying out, building, repairing, improving, and maintaining the public roads and bridges of the county, under orders of the board of commissioners. He shall receive such salary as may be fixed by the board of commissioners, and his term of office may be such as may be fixed by the board, with authority vested in the board to discharge him at any time and elect or employ a successor. The superintendent or warden shall give his receipt in writing to the clerk of the board for all supplies and materials furnished to him by the board, which receipt shall be kept filed in the office of the board of commissioners.
Sec. 12. - [Audit of certain officers.]
Be it further enacted by the authority aforesaid that the board of commissioners shall have the books and accounts of the tax collector, tax receiver, treasurer or county depository, sheriff, and commissioners audited by a certified public accountant of this state immediately after they take charge of the affairs of the county, to cover such period as they may deem advisable, and every two years thereafter they must have the books and accounts of said officers examined for the two years previous. Full reports of such audits, including statement of assets and liabilities, of revenues and expenses, and such schedule as may be necessary for a clear understanding of the affairs of the county, as of January 1 of each year, shall be made, and such audits shall be completed and furnished to the next succeeding term of the grand jury of the county. An intelligent statement of each audit, showing the financial condition of the county, its receipts [and] disbursements, shall be published by the commissioners in the official organ of the county, if satisfactory prices can be made for such publication, that the citizens and taxpayers may fully understand the financial condition of the county.
Sec. 13. - [Jurisdiction and powers.]
Be it further enacted by the authority aforesaid that the board of commissioners shall have, and they are hereby vested with, exclusive jurisdiction and control over the following, to wit: in directing, controlling, and caring for all the property of the county, according to law; in levying taxes according to law; in establishing, altering, or abolishing public roads, private roads, private ways, bridges and ferries, according to law; in establishing, abolishing, or changing election precincts and militia districts according to law; in supervising the tax collectors' and tax receivers' books, and in allowing the insolvent list for said county, according to law; in settling all claims against the county; examining and auditing all claims and accounts of officers having the care, management, keeping, collecting, or disbursement of money belonging to the county, or appropriating for its use or benefit, and bringing them to settlement; and especially are they charged with frequently examining and auditing of the books of the county treasurer or county depository; the tax collectors, tax receivers, the sheriff, the [ ], or other officer of said county through whose hands county funds must pass; and this may be done by the commissioners themselves or through their clerk or auditor, and they may require from all such officers, subject to an examination, such reports as may be necessary to keep such board of commissioners fully informed at all times of the financial condition of the county; in controlling, caring for and managing the convicts of the county, according to law; in making rules, regulations and provisions for the support of the poor of the county, according to law; in promoting and preserving the public health of the county, with authority to quarantine against contagious diseases and epidemics, according to law; in regulating and fixing license fees as may be provided for the levying and collecting of the commutation road taxes, fixing the amount to be paid in money or the number of days work to be performed in lieu thereof; in trying all road defaulters, in accordance with law; and generally to have and exercise all powers heretofore vested in the judge of the probate court of said county when sitting for county purposes; and to exercise such other powers as are granted by law or as may be indispensable to the jurisdiction over county matters or county finance; in selecting and appointing all minor officials of the county whose election or appointment is not otherwise fixed by law, such as superintendent and guards of convicts and chain-gang, janitor of the courthouse, superintendent of pauper farms should one be established, county physician and health officer, tax assessors, and county policemen, and other officers and guards as needed and authorized by law; and such board shall have the authority to employ a competent attorney at law as county attorney to advise the board and represent the county in such matters as the board of commissioners may direct, who shall be paid such compensation as the board of commissioners may fix, out of the regular county funds of the county, with authority of said board of commissioners to fix his term of office or to discharge him at any time; in regulating peddling license according to law. Said board shall have entire control of the convicts of said county sentenced to work upon the roads or works of said county by the proper authorities of the state assigned to the county by the proper authorities of the state, and shall so employ them according to law, and under such plans of working, building, repairing, and maintaining the public roads, bridges and works of said county as may now or hereafter be adopted or enforced by law in said county. The said board shall also have the right and authority to let the misdemeanor convicts sentenced in the local courts to other counties under such terms and conditions as may be fixed by the said board and approved by the prison commission of Georgia, and shall also have the right to reassign to some other Georgia county Charlton County's felony convicts under the sanction and rules of said prison commission of Georgia.
(1986 Ga. Laws, page 5701)
Sec. 14. - [Contributions for improvements.]
Be it further enacted by the authority aforesaid that said board of commissioners may receive contributions for the improvement of the public roads or bridges of the county from persons who own property along the same, or from any other person or persons, or from the state government or the United States government, or from any corporation or firm who may be interested in the improvement of the roads and bridges, and such contributions when received shall be used for the improvement of the road or bridge designated by the contributor.
Sec. 15. - [Nepotism; vested interests.]
Be it further enacted by the authority aforesaid that it shall be unlawful for said commissioners to employ any person related within the second degree, either by blood or marriage, to any member of the board, or to contract with such person or persons for any equipment, material, or supplies or for any work to be done upon the public roads, bridges, or public works of the county; and it shall likewise be unlawful for any member of said board or their clerk to have any financial interest in sale or purchase of any article to or from the county, or to receive any rebate, expense account, transportation, or other valuable consideration in connection or through the purchase of any equipment or supplies for the county, or the awarding of any contract for said county; and if any commissioner, or the clerk, shall knowingly or willfully violate any provision of this section, he shall be guilty of a misdemeanor, and upon conviction shall be punished as prescribed by section 1065 of the Penal Code of Georgia of 1910, and shall forfeit his office or be discharged from employment.
Sec. 16. - [Quorum.]
A quorum shall consist of the chairman or vice-chairman of the board and two other members. A quorum may act for the board in any matter in which a simple majority of the board is required.
(1941 Ga. Laws (Act No. 397), page 810; 1987 Ga. Laws (Act No. 408), page 5042)
Editor's note— Section 17 was deleted by 1987 Ga. Laws (Act No. 408), page 5042.
ARTICLE II. - CHARLTON COUNTY DEVELOPMENT AUTHORITY[3]

Footnotes:
--- (3) ---
Editor's note— The Charlton County Development Authority was established by an amendment to article 7, section 5, paragraph 1, of the Georgia Constitution as set forth in 1964 Ex. Sess. (Act No. 8), page 363. It was continued in force and effect by an act set forth in 1987 Ga. Laws (Act No. 305), page 4530.

Sec. A. - [Creation.]
There is hereby created a body corporate and politic in the County of Charlton to be known as the Charlton Development Authority, Folkston, Georgia, which shall be an instrumentality of Charlton County and a public corporation and which in this amendment is hereafter referred to as the "authority."
Sec. B. - [Membership, terms; quorum; vacancies.]
The authority shall consist of seven members who shall serve for terms of three, two and one years and who shall be eligible for reappointment. The original seven members shall serve terms of three for three years, two for two years and two for one year. They shall be W. C. Odom, R. Ward Harrison, Theo Dinkins each to serve three years; Bob Adkins, Carl Jones, Jr., each to serve two years; H. R. Johnson, Doyal Lewis each to serve one year. The subsequent members shall be appointed by the Charlton County commissioners. Vacancies shall be filled for the unexpired term by the authority. A majority of the members shall constitute a quorum and a majority may act for the authority in any matter. No vacancy shall impair the power of the authority to act.
Sec. C. - [Tax exemption.]
(a)
The property, obligations and the interest on the obligation of the authority shall have the same immunity from taxation as the property, obligations and interest on the obligations of Charlton County.
(b)
The exemption from taxation herein provided shall not extend to tenants nor lessees of the authority. The right of any private person to use or occupy any real estate of the authority for a period of one year or longer under any lease or other agreement for the purposes of taxation shall be classed as an interest in the real estate and as real property and shall be taxed as real property as now provided by law, or may be taxed as the general assembly may hereafter provide by general or local law. The tax exemption herein provided also shall not include exemption from sale and use taxes on property purchased by the authority or for use of the authority.
Sec. D. - [Powers and duties.]
The powers of the authority shall include, but not be limited to, the power:
(1)
To buy, acquire, develop, improve, own, operate, maintain, sell, lease as lessor and lessee, and mortgage land, buildings and property of all kinds within Charlton County.
(2)
To receive and administer gifts, grants and donations and to administer trusts.
(3)
To grant, loan and lease without adequate consideration or without any consideration, and with and without security, any of its funds and property to private persons and corporations operating or proposing to operate any industrial plant or establishment within Charlton County. The provisions of this clause shall not be construed to limit any other power of the authority.
(4)
To borrow money and to issue notes, bonds and revenue certificates therefor and to sell, convey, mortgage, pledge and assign any and all of its funds, property and income as security therefor.
(5)
To contract with Charlton County and other political subdivisions and with private persons and corporations and to sue and be sued in its corporate name.
(6)
To have and exercise usual powers of private corporations except such as are inconsistent with this amendment, including the power to appoint and hire officers, agents and employees and to provide their compensation and duties, which officers and agents may or may not be members of the authority, and the power to adopt and amend a corporate seal and bylaws and regulations for the conduct and management of the authority.
(7)
To encourage and promote the expansion of industry, agriculture, trade, commerce and recreation in Charlton County, and to make long-range plans therefor.
(8)
To exercise such other powers and duties as may be delegated to it by the Charlton County commissioners.
(9)
To accumulate its funds from year to year and to invest accumulated funds in any manner that public funds of the State of Georgia or any of its political subdivisions may be invested.
(10)
To designate officers to sign and act for the authority generally or in any specific matter.
(11)
To do any and all acts and things necessary or convenient to accomplish the purpose and powers of the authority as herein stated.
Sec. E. - [Indebtedness to county, state.]
The authority shall not be authorized to create in any manner any debt, liability or obligation against Charlton County or the State of Georgia.
Sec. F. - [Tort liability.]
The authority shall have the same immunity and exemption from liability for torts and negligence as the State of Georgia[,] and the officers, agents and employees of the authority when in performance of the work of the authority shall have the same immunity and exemption from liability for torts and negligence as the officers, agents and employees of the State of Georgia when in performance of their public duties or work of the state. The authority may be sued the same as private corporations on any contractual obligation of the authority.
Sec. G. - [Compensation.]
The members of the authority shall receive only such compensation for their services to the authority as shall be authorized by authority and such compensation shall be paid from funds of the authority.
Sec. H. - [Levy.]
The County of Charlton is authorized to levy an annual tax, not to exceed 1½ mills, on all taxable property within the county for the support of the authority and for its use and purposes, and all funds raised by such tax shall be paid and appropriated by Charlton County to the authority and when paid to the authority, shall become a part of its funds and may be used by it for any of its purposes and powers as herein stated or as may be hereafter provided by law, which tax shall be in addition to all other taxes authorized by law issued as provided herein, and such trust agreement or indenture may provide for foreclosure or forced sale of any property of the authority upon default on such bonds either in payment of principal or interest or under any term or condition under which such bonds are issued. Nothing herein contained shall be construed to authorize said authority to issue any bonds resulting in the creation of a lien against the tax digest of Charlton County.
Sec. I. - [Bonds.]
In order to finance any undertaking within the scope of its power or to refund any bonds then outstanding, the authority is hereby authorized to issue bonds bearing rate or rates of interest and maturing at the years and amounts determined by the authority and the procedure of validation, issuance and delivery shall be in all respects in accordance with the Revenue Bond Law (1937 Ga. Laws, page 761) as amended, Ga. Code Ann. Supp., chapter 87-8, as if said obligation had been originally authorized to be issued thereunder; provided, however, that any property, real or personal, of the authority may be pledged, mortgaged, conveyed, assigned, hypothecated or otherwise encumbered as security for any lawful debt of the authority. The authority may execute any trust agreement or indenture not in conflict with the provisions of this amendment to provide security for any bonds.
Sec. J. - [Property exempt from levy.]
The property of the authority shall not be subject to levy and sale under legal process except such property, income or funds as may be pledged, assigned, mortgaged or conveyed to secure an obligation of the authority, and any such property, funds or income may be sold under legal process or under any power granted by the authority to enforce payment of the obligation.
Sec. K. - [Intent of article.]
This amendment is adopted for the purpose of promoting and expanding for the public good and welfare of Charlton County and its citizens, industry, agriculture, trade, commerce and recreation within Charlton County and making of long-range plans for such development and expansion. This amendment and any law enacted with reference to the authority shall be liberally construed for the accomplishment of this purpose.
Sec. L. - [Effective date.]
This amendment shall be effective immediately upon proclamation of its ratification by the governor.
Sec. M. - [General assembly's power to regulate.]
The general assembly may by law further define and prescribe the powers and duties of the authority and the exercise thereof, and may enlarge and restrict the same, and may likewise further regulate the management and conduct of the authority.
Sec. N. - [Debt of authority.]
There shall be no limitation upon the amount of debt which the authority may incur, but no debt created by the authority shall be a debt of Charlton County or the State of Georgia.
ARTICLE III. - FOLKSTON-CHARLTON COUNTY AIRPORT AUTHORITY[4]

Footnotes:
--- (4) ---
Editor's note— The Folkston-Charlton County Airport Authority was created and established by an act of the general assembly as set forth in 1970 Ga. Laws (Act No. 1219), page 3253.
State Law reference— Acquisition, construction and maintenance of airports by counties and municipalities, O.C.G.A. § 6-3-20 et seq.; powers of counties and municipalities as to airports, O.C.G.A. § 6-3-25; authorization to enforce police regulations in airports, O.C.G.A. § 6-3-27.

Sec. 1. - Short title.
This Act may be cited as the "Charlton-Folkston-Homeland Airport Authority Act."
(2000 Ga. Laws (Act No. 552), § 1, page 3795)
Sec. 2. - Folkston-Charlton County airport authority.
There is created a body corporate and politic to be known as the Charlton-Folkston-Homeland Airport Authority, which shall be deemed to be a political subdivision of the State of Georgia and a public corporation by that name, style, and title and said body may contract and be contracted with, sue and be sued, implead and be impleaded, complain and defend in all courts of law and equity, except that the authority or the trustee acting under the trust indenture herein provided for shall in no event be liable for any torts committed by any of the officers, agents, and employees of the authority. The authority shall have perpetual existence.
(2000 Ga. Laws (Act No. 552), § 1, page 3795)
Sec. 3. - Membership.
The authority shall be composed of seven members as follows: Three members shall be appointed by the board of commissioners of Charlton County; two members shall be appointed by the governing authority of the City of Folkston; and two members shall be appointed by the governing authority of the City of Homeland. Within 30 days after the approval of this Act, it shall be the duty of the respective governing authorities to appoint members of the authority, for a term of office to expire December 31, 2002. All subsequent appointments shall be for a term of four years and until their successors have been appointed and qualified. No person shall be appointed to membership on the authority unless such person is a qualified elector of Charlton County.
(2000 Ga. Laws (Act No. 552), § 1, page 3795)
Sec. 4. - Meetings.
The authority shall hold their first regular meeting after the approval of this Act, and the first regular meeting of each year thereafter shall be in January. The authority shall meet at such times as may be necessary to transact the business coming before it, but not less than quarterly. At its first meeting in January of each year thereafter, the authority shall elect one of its members as its chairman and another member as secretary-treasurer. Only one person shall hold the office of secretary-treasurer. These officers shall be elected for a term ending on December 31 of the year in which they were elected or until their successors are elected and qualified. Three members of the authority shall constitute a quorum for the transaction of all business coming before it. The members of the authority shall serve without pay except that they shall be reimbursed for actual expenses incurred in the performance of their duties.
Sec. 5. - Vacancies in office.
In the event of a vacancy on the authority by reason of death, resignation or otherwise, the vacancy shall be filled by the appointing authority and the person so appointed shall serve for the remainder of the unexpired term.
Sec. 6. - Definitions.
As used in this Act the following words and terms have the following meanings:
(a)
The word "authority" shall mean the Charlton-Folkston-Homeland Airport Authority as created by the provisions of this Act.
(b)
The word "project" shall be deemed to mean and include the acquisition, construction, equipping, maintenance, improving and operation of public airports and landing fields for the use of aircraft, and related buildings and the usual and convenient facilities appertaining to such undertakings and extensions and improvements of such facilities, acquiring the necessary property, both real and personal, and the lease and sale of any part or all such facilities, including real and personal property so as to assure the efficient and proper development, maintenance and operation of such airports, and landing fields for the use of aircraft deemed by the authority to be necessary, convenient or desirable.
(c)
The term "cost of the project" shall embrace the cost of construction, the cost of all lands, properties, rights, easements and franchises acquired, the cost of all machinery, equipment, financing charges, interest prior to and during construction, cost of engineering, architectural, fiscal and legal expenses, and of plans and specifications, and such other expenses as may be necessary or incident to the financing herein authorized, the construction of any project and improving the same, the placing of the same in operation, and the condemnation of property necessary for such construction and operation. Any obligation or expense incurred for any of the foregoing purposes shall be regarded as a part of the cost of the project and may be paid or reimbursed as such out of any funds of the authority including the proceeds of any revenue bonds issued under the provisions of the Act for any such project or projects.
(d)
The terms "revenue bonds," "bonds," and "obligations," as used in this Act, shall mean revenue bonds as defined and provided for in the Revenue Bond Law (1957 Ga. Laws, page 36 et seq.) amending the law formerly known as the Revenue Certificate Law of 1937 (1937 Ga. Laws, page 761 et seq., as amended) and such type of obligations may be issued by the authority as authorized under said revenue bond law and any amendments thereto, and in addition shall also mean obligations of the authority the issuance of which are hereinafter authorized in this Act.
(e)
Any project shall be deemed "self-liquidating" if, in the judgment of the authority, the revenues and earnings to be derived by the authority therefrom and all properties used, leased and sold in connection therewith will be sufficient to pay the cost of operating, maintaining and repairing, improving and extending the project and to pay the principal and interest of the revenue bonds which may be issued to finance, in whole or in part, the cost of such project or projects.
(2000 Ga. Laws (Act No. 552), § 2, page 3795)
Sec. 7. - Powers.
The authority shall have powers:
(a)
To have a seal and alter the same at pleasure;
(b)
To acquire by purchase, lease or otherwise, and to hold, lease, [and] dispose of real and personal property of every kind and character for its corporate purposes;
(c)
To acquire in its own name by purchase, on such terms and conditions and in such manner as it may deem proper, or by the exercise of the power and right of eminent domain, which is hereby granted, by condemnation in accordance with the provisions of any and all existing laws applicable to the condemnation of property for public use, real property or rights of easements therein or franchise necessary or convenient for its corporate purposes, and to use the same so long as its corporate existence shall continue and to lease or make contract with respect to the use of or disposition of the same in any manner it deems to the best advantage of the authority, the authority being under no obligation to accept and pay for any property condemned under this Act except from the funds provided under the authority of this Act, and in any proceeding to condemn, such orders may be made by the court having jurisdiction of the suit, action or proceedings as may be just to the authority and to the owners of the property to be condemned, and no property shall be acquired under the provisions of this Act upon which any lien or other encumbrance exists, unless at the time such property is so acquired a sufficient sum of money be deposited in trust to pay and redeem the fair value of such lien or encumbrance;
(d)
To appoint, select and employ officers, agents and employees including engineering, architectural and construction experts, fiscal agents and attorneys, and fix their respective compensations;
(e)
To make contracts, leases and to execute all instruments necessary or convenient including contracts for construction of projects or leases of projects or contracts with respect to the use of projects which it causes to be erected or acquired, and any and all persons, firms and corporations and any and all political subdivisions, departments, institutions, or agencies of the state are hereby authorized to enter into contracts, leases or agreements with the authority upon such terms and for such purposes as they may deem advisable; the said authority is further granted the authority to make contracts, leases and to execute all instruments necessary or convenient with the United States government or any agency or department thereof concerning the projects of the authority, subject to the rights and interests of the holder of any of the bonds or obligations authorized to be issued hereunder, and by the resolution or trust indenture of the authority authorizing the issuance of any of its bonds or obligations as provided in section 21 of this Act;
(f)
To construct, erect, acquire, own, repair, remodel, maintain, add to, extend, improve, equip, operate and manage projects as hereinabove defined, the cost of any such project to be paid in whole or in part from the proceeds of revenue bonds or other funds of the authority or from such proceeds or other funds and any grant from the United States of America or any agency or instrumentality thereof;
(g)
To accept loans and grants, or to accept loans or grants of money or materials or property of any kind from the United States of America or any agency or instrumentality or political subdivision thereof or from any other source, upon such terms and conditions as the United States of America or such agency or instrumentality or other source may impose;
(h)
To accept loans and grants, or to accept loans or grants of money or materials or property of any kind from the State of Georgia or any agency or instrumentality or political subdivision thereof or from any other source, upon such terms and conditions as the State of Georgia or such agency or instrumentality or political subdivision or any other source may impose;
(i)
To borrow money for any of its corporate purposes and to execute evidences of such indebtedness and to secure the same and to issue negotiable revenue bonds payable solely from funds pledged for that purpose, and to provide for the payment of the same and for the rights of the holders thereof;
(j)
To exercise any power usually possessed by private corporations performing similar functions, which is not in conflict with the constitution and laws of this state;
(k)
The authority and the trustee acting under the trust indenture are specifically authorized subject from time to time to sell, lease, grant, exchange or otherwise dispose of any surplus property, both real or personal, or interest therein not required in the normal operation of and usable in the furtherance of the purpose for which the authority was created, except as such right and power may be limited as provided in section 2 and section 21 hereof;
(l)
To do all things necessary or convenient to carry out the powers especially given in this Act;
(m)
Nothing herein shall be construed to authorize the authority to have any powers or jurisdiction outside of Charlton County.
Sec. 8. - Revenue bonds[—Generally.]
The authority, or any authority or body which has or which may in the future succeed to the powers, duties and liabilities vested in the authority created hereby, shall have power and is hereby authorized at one time, or from time to time, to provide by resolution for the issuance of negotiable revenue bonds for the purpose of paying all of any part of the cost as herein defined of any one or more projects. The principal and interest of such revenue bonds shall be payable solely from the special fund herein provided for such payment. The bonds of each issue shall be dated, shall bear interest at such rate or rates as may be authorized by the authority from time to time, shall be payable semiannually, shall mature at such time or times not exceeding 30 years from their date or dates, shall be payable in such medium of payment as to both principal and interest as may be determined by the authority, and may be made redeemable before maturity at the option of the authority, at such price or prices and under such terms and conditions as may be fixed by the authority in the resolution providing for the issuance of the bonds. Such revenue bonds or obligations shall be issued pursuant to and in conformity with the Revenue Bond Law (1937 Ga. Laws, page 36 et seq.) amending the law formerly known as the Revenue Certificate Law of 1937 (1937 Ga. Laws, page 761 et seq., as amended), and all procedures pertaining to such issuance and the conditions thereof shall be the same as those contained in said revenue bond law and any amendments thereof.
Sec. 9. - Same—Form; denominations; registration; place of payment.
The authority shall determine the form of the bonds and the place or places of payment of principal thereto, and shall fix the denomination or denominations of the bonds and the place or places of payment of principal and interest thereof, which may be at any bank or trust company within or without the state. The bonds may be issued in coupon or registered form, or both, as the authority may determine and provision may be made for the registration of any coupon bond as to principal alone and also as to both the principal and interest.
Sec. 10. - Same—Signatures; seal.
In case any officer whose signature shall appear on any bonds or whose facsimile signature shall appear on any coupon shall cease to be such officer before the delivery of such bonds, such signature shall nevertheless be valid and sufficient for all purposes the same as if he had remained in office until such delivery. All such bonds shall be signed by the chairman of the authority and attested by the secretary-treasurer of the authority and the official seal of the authority shall be affixed thereto and any coupons attached thereto shall bear the facsimile signatures of the chairman and secretary-treasurer of the authority. Any bond may be signed, sealed and attested on behalf of the authority by such persons as at the actual time of the execution of such bonds shall be duly authorized or held the proper office, although at the date of delivery and payment of such bonds such persons may not have been so authorized or shall not have held such office.
Sec. 11. - Same—Negotiability; exemption from taxation.
All revenue bonds issued under the provisions of this Act shall have and are hereby declared to have all the qualities and incidents of negotiable instruments under the negotiable instrument law of the state. Such bonds are declared to be issued for an essential public and governmental purpose and the said bonds, their transfer, and the income thereof shall be exempt from all taxation within the state.
Sec. 12. - Same—Sale; price.
The authority may sell such bonds in such manner and for such price as it may determine to be for the best interest of the authority, but no such sale shall be made at a price less than par as provided in the revenue bond law, unless said revenue bond law be hereafter amended to permit the sale of such bonds at less than par.
Sec. 13. - Same—Proceeds of bonds.
The proceeds of such bonds shall be used solely for the payment of the cost of the project or projects, and unless otherwise provided in the resolution authorizing the issuance of the bonds or in the trust indenture, additional bonds may in like manner be issued to provide the amount of any deficit for the cost of the project or projects, which unless otherwise provided in the resolution authorizing the issuance of the bonds or in the trust indenture shall be deemed to be of the same issue and shall be entitled to payment from the same fund without preference or priority of the bonds first issued for the same purposes. If the proceeds of the bonds of any issue shall exceed the amount required for the purpose for which such bonds are issued, the surplus shall be paid into a sinking fund or used for additional construction as may be provided in the resolution authorizing the issuance of the bonds or in the trust indenture.
Sec. 14. - Same—Interim receipts and certificates or temporary bonds.
Prior to the preparation of definitive bonds, the authority may, under like restrictions, issue interim receipts, interim certificates or temporary bonds, with or without coupons exchangeable for definitive bonds upon the issuance of the latter.
Sec. 15. - Same—Replacement of lost or mutilated bonds.
The authority may also provide for the replacement of any bond which shall become mutilated or be destroyed or lost.
Sec. 16. - [Same—]Conditions precedent to issuance; object of issuance.
Such revenue bonds may be issued without any other proceedings or the happening of any other conditions or things than those proceedings, conditions and things which are specified or required by this Act. In the discretion of the authority, revenue bonds of a single issue may be issued for the purpose of any particular project. Any resolution providing for the issuance of revenue bonds under the provisions of this Act shall become effective immediately upon its passage and need not be published or posted, and any such resolution may be passed at any regular or special or adjourned meeting of the authority by a majority of the quorum as in this Act provided.
Sec. 17. - [Same—]Credit not pledged.
Revenue bonds issued under the provisions of this Act shall not be deemed to constitute a debt of Charlton County, or any municipality therein, but such bonds shall be payable solely from the fund hereinafter provided for and the issuance of such revenue bonds shall not be [sic] directly, indirectly or contingently obligate the said county, or any municipality therein, to levy or to pledge any form of taxation whatever therefor or to make any appropriation for the payment, and all such bonds shall contain recitals on their faces covering substantially the foregoing provisions of this section.
Sec. 18. - Same—Trust indenture as security.
In the discretion of the authority, any issue of such revenue bonds may be secured by a trust indenture by and between the authority and a corporate trustee, which may be any trust company or bank having the powers of a trust company within or outside of the state. Such trust indenture may pledge or assign fees, tolls, revenues and earnings to be received by the authority, including the proceeds derived from the sale from time to time of any surplus property of the authority, both real and personal. Either the resolution providing for the issuance of revenue bonds or such trust indenture may contain such provisions for protecting and enforcing the rights and remedies of the bondholders as may be reasonable and proper and not in violation of law, including covenants setting forth the duties of the authority in relation to the acquisition of property, the construction of the project, the maintenance, operation, repair and insurance of the property, and the custody, safeguarding and application of all monies, including the proceeds derived from the sale of property of the authority, both real and personal, and may also provide that any project shall be constructed and paid for under the supervision and approval of consulting engineers or architects employed or designated by the authority, and satisfactory to the original purchasers of the bonds issued therefor and may also require that the security given by contractors and by any depository of the proceeds of the bonds or revenues or other monies be satisfactory to such purchasers, and may also contain provisions concerning the conditions, if any, upon which additional revenue bonds may be issued. It shall be lawful for any bank or trust company incorporated under the laws of this state to act as such depository and to furnish such indemnifying bonds or pledge such securities as may be required by the authority. Such indenture may set forth the rights and remedies of the bondholders and of the trustee, and may restrict the individual right of action of bondholders as is customary in trust indentures securing bonds and debentures of corporations. In addition to the foregoing, such trust indenture may contain such other provisions as the authority may deem reasonable and proper for the security of the bondholders. All expenses incurred in carrying out such trust indenture may be treated as a part of the cost of maintenance, operation and repair of the project affected by such indenture.
Sec. 19. - Same—To whom proceeds of bonds shall be paid.
The authority shall, in the resolution providing for the issuance of revenue bonds or in trust indenture, provide for the payment of the proceeds of the sale of the bonds to any officer or person who, or any agency, bank or trust company which, shall act as trustee of such funds and shall hold and apply the same to the purposes hereof, subject to such regulations as this Act and such resolutions or trust indentures may provide.
Sec. 20. - Same—Sinking fund.
The revenues, fees, tolls, and earnings derived from any particular project or projects, regardless of whether or not such fees, earnings and revenues were produced by a particular project for which bonds have been issued and any monies derived from the sale of any properties, both real and personal of the authority, unless otherwise pledged and allocated, may be pledged and allocated by the authority to the payment of the principal and interest on revenue bonds of the authority as the resolution authorizing the issuance of the bonds or in the trust instrument may provide, and such funds so pledged from whatever source received, which said pledge may include funds received from one or more or all sources, shall be set aside at regular intervals as may be provided in the resolution or trust indenture, into a sinking fund which said sinking fund shall be pledged to and charged with the payments of (1) the interest upon such revenue bonds as such interest shall fall due, (2) the principal of the bonds as the same shall fall due, (3) the necessary charges of paying agent or agents for paying interest and principal and (4) any premium upon bonds retired by call or purchase as hereinabove provided. The use and disposition of such sinking fund shall be subject to such regulations as may be provided in the resolution authorizing the issuance of the revenue bonds or in the trust indenture, but, except as may otherwise be provided in such resolution or trust indenture, such sinking fund shall be a fund for the benefit of all revenue bonds without distinction or priority of one over another. Subject to the provisions of the resolution authorizing the issuance of the bonds or in the trust indenture surplus monies in the sinking fund may be applied to the purchase or redemption of bonds and any such bonds so purchased or redeemed shall forthwith be cancelled and shall not again be issued.
Sec. 21. - Same—Remedies of bondholders.
Any holder of revenue bonds issued under the provisions of this Act or any of the coupons appertaining thereto, and the trustee under the trust indenture, if any, except to the extent the rights herein given may be restricted by resolution passed before the issuance of the bonds or by the trust indenture, may, either at law or in equity, by suit, action, mandamus, or other proceedings protect and enforce any and all rights under the laws of the State of Georgia or granted hereunder or under such resolution or trust indenture, and may enforce and compel performance of all duties required by this Act or by such resolution or trust indenture, to be performed by the authority, or any officer thereof, including the fixing, charging, and collecting of revenues, fees, tolls, and other charges for the use of the facilities and services furnished.
Sec. 22. - Same—Refunding bonds.
The authority is hereby authorized to provide by resolution for the issue of revenue refunding bonds of the authority for the purpose of refunding any revenue bonds issued under the provisions of this Act and then outstanding, together with accrued interest thereon. The issuance of such revenue refunding bonds, the maturities and all other details thereof, the rights of the holders thereof, and the duties of the authority in respect to the same, shall be governed by the foregoing provisions of this Act insofar as the same may be applicable.
Sec. 23. - Same—Validation.
Bonds of the authority shall be confirmed and validated in accordance with the procedure of said revenue bond law. The petition for validation shall also make party defendant to such action any municipality, county, authority, subdivision or instrumentality of the State of Georgia or the United States government or any department or agency of the United States government, if subject to be sued, which has contracted with the authority for the services and facilities of the project for which bonds are to be issued and sought to be validated and such municipality, county, authority, subdivision or instrumentality shall be required to show cause, if any, why such contract or contracts and the terms and conditions thereof should not be inquired into by the court and the validity of the terms thereof be determined and the contract or contracts adjudicated as security for the payment of any such bonds of the authority. The bonds, when validated, and the judgment of validation shall be final and conclusive with respect to such bonds, against the authority issuing the same, and any municipality, county, authority, subdivision, or instrumentality of the United States government, if a party to the validation proceedings, contracting with the said Folkston-Charlton County Airport Authority.
Sec. 24. - Same—Venue and jurisdiction.
Any action to protect or enforce any rights under the provisions of this Act or any suit or action against such authority shall be brought in the Superior Court of Charlton County, Georgia, and any action pertaining to validation of any bonds issued under the provisions of this Act shall likewise be brought in said court which shall have exclusive, original jurisdiction of such actions.
Sec. 25. - Same—Interest of bondholders protected.
While any of the bonds issued by the authority remain outstanding, the powers, duties or existence of said authority or of its officers, employees or agents shall not be diminished or impaired in any manner that will affect adversely the interest and rights of the holders of such bonds, and no other entity, department, agency or authority will be created which will compete with the authority to such an extent as to affect adversely the interest and rights of the holders of such bonds, and upon the issuance of bonds under the provisions hereof, [such issuance] shall constitute a contract with the holders of such bonds.
Sec. 26. - Monies received considered trust funds.
All monies received pursuant to the authority of this Act, whether as proceeds from the sale of revenue bonds, as grants or other contributions, or as revenues, income, fees and earnings, shall be deemed to be trust funds to be held and applied solely as provided in this Act.
Sec. 27. - Purpose of the authority.
Without limiting the generality of any provisions of the Act, the general purpose of the authority is declared to be that of acquiring, constructing, equipping, maintaining, improving and operating airports and landing fields for the use of aircraft, including any related buildings and the usual and convenient facilities appertaining to such undertakings and extensions and improvements of such facilities, acquiring the necessary property therefor, both real and personal, and to lease or sell any or all of such facilities including real property and to do any and all things deemed by the authority necessary, convenient or desirable for and incident to the efficient and proper development and operation of such types of undertakings.
Sec. 28. - Rates, charges and revenues; use.
The authority is hereby authorized to prescribe and fix and collect rates, fees, tolls and charges, and to revise from time to time and collect such rates, fees, tolls and charges for the services, facilities or commodities furnished, including leases, concessions or subleases of its lands or facilities, and in anticipation of the collection of the revenues and income of such undertakings or projects is authorized to issue revenue bonds as herein provided to finance in whole or in part the cost of such project or projects and to pledge to the punctual payment of said bonds and interest thereon, all or any part of the revenues and income of such undertakings or projects.
Sec. 29. - Rules and regulations for operation of projects.
It shall be the duty of the authority to prescribe rules and regulations for the operation of the project or projects constructed under the provisions of this Act, including the basis on which airports and landing fields for the use of aircraft shall be furnished.
Sec. 30. - Powers declared supplemental and additional.
The foregoing sections of this Act shall be deemed to provide an additional and alternative method for the doing of the things authorized thereby and shall be regarded as supplemental and additional to powers conferred by other laws, and shall not be regarded as in derogation of any powers now existing.
Sec. 31. - Liberal construction of Act.
This Act being for the purpose of promoting the health, morals, and general welfare of the citizens of the United States, of the State of Georgia and of Charlton County shall be liberally construed to effect the purposes hereof.
Sec. 32. - Jurisdiction.
All property, the title to which shall vest in said authority, shall be and become a part of the corporate limits of the City of Folkston and shall be subject to the jurisdiction of the City of Folkston in the same manner and subject to the police powers of the City of Folkston and the same laws, ordinances, rules and regulations as are now or may hereafter be in effect in the City of Folkston.
ARTICLE IV. - FIRE PROTECTION DISTRICT[5]

Footnotes:
--- (5) ---
Editor's note— Printed herein is the act establishing Charlton County as a fire district and authorizing the levying of a tax to cover the cost of such protection as set forth in 1961 Ga. Laws (Act No. 378), page 3019.

Sec. 1. - [Fire district.]
All that territory located within Charlton County shall constitute a fire protection district.
(1962 Ga. Laws (Act No. 823), page 2880)
Sec. 2. - [Fire protection—Generally.]
For the purpose of providing the requisite fire protection for said district, Charlton County is authorized to contract with any person, firm, corporation or political subdivision of the State of Georgia for the furnishing of such services as are necessary in order to furnish fire protection for said district.
Sec. 3. - [Same—Funding.]
In order to raise the necessary funds with which to provide said protection, Charlton County is hereby authorized to levy a one-mill tax assessment against all taxable property located within said district. The proceeds from said levy shall be used exclusively for the purpose of providing fire protection to the residents and property embraced within the limits of said district.
ARTICLE V. - HOMESTEAD EXEMPTION[6]

Footnotes:
--- (6) ---
Editor's note— Printed herein is the constitutional amendment providing a homestead exemption for aged from taxation for educational purposes in the county as set forth in 2000 Ga. Laws (Act No. 876), page 4588.

Section 1. - [Definition.]
For purposes of this Act, the term:
(1)
"Ad valorem taxes for county purposes" means all ad valorem taxes for county purposes levied by, for, or on behalf of Charlton County, including, but not limited to, taxes to pay interest on and to retire bonded indebtedness.
(2)
"Homestead" means homestead as defined and qualified in code section 48-5-40 of the O.C.G.A.
(3)
"Senior citizen" means a person who is 62 years of age or over on or before January 1 of the year in which application for the exemption under this Act is made.
Section 2. - [Exemption.]
(a)
Each resident of Charlton County who is a senior citizen is granted an exemption on that person's homestead from all Charlton County ad valorem taxes for county purposes in the amount of $20,000.00 of the assessed value of that homestead. The value of that property in excess of such exempted amount shall remain subject to taxation.
(b)
A person shall not receive the homestead exemption granted by subsection (a) of this section unless the person or person's agent files an affidavit with the tax commissioner of Charlton County giving the person's age and such additional information relative to receiving such exemption as will enable the tax commissioner to make a determination as to whether such owner is entitled to such exemption. The tax commissioner shall provide affidavit forms for this purpose.
Section 3. - [Application forms.]
The tax commissioner of Charlton County or the designee thereof shall provide application forms for the exemption granted by this Act and shall require such information as may be necessary to determine the initial and continuing eligibility of the owner for the exemption.
Section 4. - [Renewal.]
The exemption shall be claimed and returned as provided in code section 48-5-50.1 of the O.C.G.A. The exemption shall be automatically renewed from year to year as long as the owner occupies the residence as a homestead. After a person has filed the proper affidavit as provided in subsection (b) of section 2 of this Act, it shall not be necessary to make application and file such affidavit thereafter for any year, and the exemption shall continue to be allowed to such person. It shall be the duty of any person granted the homestead exemption under this Act to notify the tax commissioner of Charlton County or the designee thereof in the event that person for any reason becomes ineligible for that exemption.
[Section 5. - Reserved.]
Section 6. - [Effective.]
The exemption granted by this Act shall apply to all taxable years beginning on or after January 1, 2001.
ARTICLE VI. - BOARD OF ELECTIONS AND REGISTRATION[7]
AN ACT
To create a board of elections and registration for Charlton County and to provide for its powers and duties; to provide for definitions; to provide for the composition of the board and the selection and appointment of members; to provide for the qualification, terms, and removal of members; to provide for oaths and privileges; to provide for meetings, procedures, and vacancies; to relieve certain officers of powers and duties and to provide for the transfer of functions to the newly created board; to provide for certain expenditures of public funds; to provide for compensation of members of the board and personnel; to provide for offices and equipment; to provide for the board's performance of certain functions and duties for certain municipalities; to provide for related matters; to provide for submission under section 5 of the federal Voting Rights Act of 1965, as amended; to provide effective dates; to repeal conflicting laws; and for other purposes.
BE IT ENACTED BY THE GENERAL ASSEMBLY OF GEORGIA:

Footnotes:
--- (7) ---
Editor's note— Printed in this article is 2011 Ga. Laws (Act No. 146), page 3922. Amendments are indicated by parenthetical history notes following amended provisions. The absence of a history note indicates that the provision remains unchanged from the original act.

Section 1. - [Created].
Pursuant to subsection (b) of code section 21-2-40 of the O.C.G.A., there is created the Charlton County Board of Elections and Registration, hereinafter referred to as "the board." The board shall have the powers, duties, and responsibilities of the superintendent of elections of Charlton County under chapter 2 of title 21 of the O.C.G.A., the "Georgia Election Code," currently being exercised by the judge of the probate court of Charlton County, and the powers, duties, and responsibilities of the board of registrars of Charlton County under chapter 2 of title 21 of the O.C.G.A., the "Georgia Election Code."
Section 2. - [Definitions].
The terms "election," "elector," "political party," "primary," and "public office" shall have the same meanings as set forth in chapter 2 of title 21 of the O.C.G.A., the "Georgia Election Code," unless otherwise clearly apparent from the text of this Act; and the term "commissioners" means the Board of Commissioners of Charlton County, and "county" means Charlton County.
Section 3. - [Composition.]
(a)
The board shall be composed of three members, each of whom shall be an elector and a resident of Charlton County. All members of the board shall be appointed by the board of commissioners of Charlton County. The Charlton County Board of Elections and Registration shall select a chairperson from among its members.
(b)
The initial terms of office of two members, as designated by their appointment, shall begin on the first day of the month following the month in which this Act is approved by the governor or in which it becomes law without such approval and shall expire on December 31, 2014, and upon the appointment and qualification of their respective successors. The initial term of office of the remaining member of the board shall begin on the first day of the month following the month in which this Act is approved by the governor or in which it becomes law without such approval and shall expire on December 31, 2012, and upon the appointment and qualification of his or her successor. Successors to the members of the board whose terms are to expire shall be appointed to take office on January [1], immediately following the expiration of such terms of office and shall serve for terms of four years each and until their successors are duly appointed and qualified. The board shall take no official action until all members have been certified to the clerk of the Superior Court of Charlton County.
Section 4. - [Supervisor of elections.]
The Charlton County Board of Commissioners shall appoint a person to serve as the supervisor of elections of Charlton County. Such position shall be full-time or part-time at the discretion of the Charlton County Board of Commissioners and such person shall be paid a salary to be set by the Charlton County Board of Commissioners and payable from county funds. The supervisor of elections shall generally direct and control the administration of elections and voter registration in Charlton County. The supervisor of elections shall be supervised by the board and shall be subject to removal from office by the board with cause. The supervisor of elections shall not be a member of the board nor an elected official.
Section 5. - [Tenure.]
Each member of the board shall:
(1)
Serve for a term of four years and until a successor is appointed and qualified, except that initial terms of office shall be as provided in subsection (b) of section 3 of this Act;
(2)
Be eligible to be reappointed to succeed such member and shall have the right to resign at any time by giving written notice of such resignation to the commissioners and to the clerk of the Superior Court of Charlton County; and
(3)
Be subject to removal from the board at any time for cause, after notice and hearing, by the judge of the Superior Court of Charlton County.
Section 6. - [Evidence of appointment.]
(a)
The appointment of each member, except the initial members, shall be evidenced by the appointing authority filing an affidavit with the clerk of the Superior Court of Charlton County no later than 30 days preceding the date upon which such member is to take office, stating the name and residence address of the person appointed and certifying that such member has been duly appointed as provided in this Act. The appointment of the initial members of the board shall be evidenced by the appointing authority filing an affidavit with the clerk of the Superior Court of Charlton County immediately following that appointment, stating the name and residence address of the person appointed and certifying that such member has been duly appointed as provided in this Act. The clerk of the superior court shall be notified of interim appointments and shall record and certify such appointments in the same manner as the regular appointment of members.
(b)
The clerk of the Superior Court of Charlton County shall record each certification on the minutes of the Superior Court of Charlton County and shall certify the name of each member to the Secretary of State and provide for the issuance of appropriate commissions to the members as provided by law for county registrars.
Section 7. - [Vacancy.]
In the event a vacancy occurs in the office of any member before the expiration of a term, by reason of removal, death, resignation, or otherwise, the appointing authority which is required under section 3 of this Act to make the appointment to the office upon the expiration of the term shall appoint a successor to serve the remainder of the unexpired term as provided for in section 3 of this Act.
Section 8. - [Oath.]
Before entering upon the duties of office, each member shall take substantially the same oath as required by law for county registrars and shall have the same privileges from arrest.
Section 9. - [Powers and duties.]
(a)
The Charlton County Board of Elections and Registration shall be empowered with all of the powers and duties relating to the conduct of primaries and elections as election superintendents pursuant to the provisions of chapter 2 of title 21 of the O.C.G.A., the "Georgia Election Code."
(b)
The board shall be empowered with all of the powers and duties relating to the registration of electors and absentee balloting procedures as boards of registrars pursuant to the provisions of chapter 2 of title 21 of the O.C.G.A., the "Georgia Election Code."
(c)
This Act is intended to implement the provisions of subsection (b) of code section 21-2-40 of the O.C.G.A. and shall be construed liberally so as to effectuate that purpose.
Section 10. - [Elected public office.]
No person who holds elective public office shall be eligible to serve as a member of the board during the term of such elective public office, and the position of membership of any member shall be deemed vacant upon such member qualifying as a candidate for an elective public office.
Section 11. - [Rule or regulation promulgated by political party executive committee.]
Any rule or regulation promulgated by a county executive committee of a political party under the provisions of subsection (c) of code section 21-2-111 of the O.C.G.A. with regard to the conduct of primaries shall be null and void if in conflict with a valid rule or regulation of the board.
Section 12. - [Primaries; municipal registrar.]
(a)
Nothing in this Act shall be construed to require or prohibit joint primaries or to require or prohibit the commissioners or any other public agency to bear any expense of conducting primaries not otherwise required by law.
(b)
The board shall have the authority to serve as municipal registrar and to conduct municipal elections and primaries for any municipal corporation located within Charlton County if such municipal corporation has entered into a contract for that purpose with the board of commissioners of Charlton County.
Section 13. - [Distributing material solely to inform and instruct electors.]
With the approval of the commissioners, the board shall be authorized to expend public funds for the purpose of preparing and distributing material solely to inform and instruct electors of the county adequately with regard to elections. No material distributed by the board shall contain or express, in any manner or form, any commentary or expression of opinion or request for support with respect to any political issue or matter of political concern.
Section 14. - [Vice chairperson.]
(a)
The board may elect from among its membership a vice chairperson and shall be authorized to organize itself, determine its procedural rules and regulations, adopt bylaws, specify the functions and duties of its employees, and otherwise take such action as is appropriate to the management of the affairs committed to its supervision; provided, however, that no such action shall conflict with general law.
(b)
Action and decision by the board shall be by majority vote of the members of the board.
Section 15. - [Meetings.]
(a)
The board shall fix and establish, by appropriate resolution entered in its minutes, directives governing the execution of matters within its jurisdiction. The board shall hold meetings in the election offices. Any specially called meetings held pursuant to the bylaws adopted by the board shall be held only after notification of the time and place of the holding of such meeting has been communicated in writing to the supervisor of elections to provide public notice of the meeting as required by law. All meetings of whatever kind of the board shall be conducted pursuant to chapter 14 of title 50 of the O.C.G.A., relating to open meetings.
(b)
The board shall maintain a written record of policy decisions that shall be amended to include additions or deletions. Such written records shall be subject to article 4 of chapter 18 of title 50 of the O.C.G.A., relating to inspections of public records.
Section 16. - [Chairperson; duties; compensation.]
(a)
The chairperson of the board of elections and registration shall chair all meetings of the board and shall be the spokesperson for the board.
(b)
The members of the board shall receive such compensation for their services as members of the board as may be determined by the Board of Commissioners of Charlton County. In addition thereto, they shall be reimbursed for their actual and necessary expenses incurred in the performance of their duties.
(c)
All amounts payable under this section shall be paid from the funds of Charlton County.
Section 17. - [Administrative offices.]
Subject to appropriation of funds by the commissioners, the board shall be authorized to expend public funds to provide for such proper and suitable administrative offices and for such clerical assistants and other employees as the board shall deem appropriate. Compensation for such administrative personnel shall be paid by the board under the county personnel systems wholly from county funds. This section shall not be construed so as to require the board to expend any funds simply because they are authorized to do so under this Act.
Section 18. - [Transition.]
On the first day of the month following the month in which this Act is approved by the Governor or in which it becomes law without such approval, the election superintendent of Charlton County and the board of registrars of Charlton County shall be relieved of all powers and duties to which the board succeeds by the provisions of this Act; and they shall deliver thereafter to the chairperson of the board, upon his or her written request, the custody of all equipment, supplies, materials, books, papers, records, and facilities of every kind pertaining to such powers and duties.
LOCAL ACTS AND RELATED LAWS COMPARATIVE TABLE - GEORGIA LAWS
This table shows the location of the sections of the basic Local Acts and Related Laws and any amendments thereto.
EXPAND
Ga. Laws
Year Act No. Page Section Section
this Local Acts/
Related Laws
1927 126 529 Art. I
1929 184 559 Art. I, § 7
1941 397 810 Art. I, § 1—
Art. I, § 16
1947 266 995 Art. I, § 1,
Art. I, § 2
1959 147 2405 Art. I, § 1—
Art. I, § 7
1961 378 3019 Art. IV
1962 823 2880 Art. IV, § 1
1007 3210 Art. I, § 7
1963 460 3416 Art. I, § 1—
Art. I, § 3
1970 1035 2757 Art. I, § 7
1219 3253 Art. III
1974 1222 3505 Art. I, § 1,
Art. I, § 2
1980 1345 4358 Art. I, § 5
1982 5120 Art. I, § 7
1986 5701 Art. I, § 13
1987 305 4530 Art. II
408 5042 Art. I, § 1—
Art. I, § 16
1992 906 5910 Art. I, § 2
1994 648 3625 Art. I, § 2
2000 552 3795 1 Art. III, § 1—
Art. III, § 3
2 Art. III, § 6
876 4588 Art. V
2007 HB 724 3694 Art. I, § 2
2011 146 3922 Art. VI
2012 HB 1282 1 Art. I, § 7
