Chapter 44 - LAND DEVELOPMENT[1]
Footnotes:
--- (1) ---
Cross reference— Environment, ch. 34; signs, ch. 52; streets, sidewalks and other public places, ch. 58; utilities, ch. 78; zoning, ch. 86.

ARTICLE I. - IN GENERAL

Sec. 44-1. - Short title.
This chapter shall be known and may be cited as the "City of Jonesboro Land Development Regulations".
(Res. No. 2005-10, § 1-0-3.1, 8-15-05)
Sec. 44-2. - Jurisdiction.
Unless this chapter clearly indicates otherwise, these regulations shall apply within the city limits of the City of Jonesboro, Georgia.
(Res. No. 2005-10, § 1-0-3.2, 8-15-05)
Sec. 44-3. - Conflict with other laws.
Whenever the regulations of this chapter require or impose more restrictive standards than are required in or under any other ordinance, the requirements of this chapter shall govern. Whenever the provisions of any state or federal statute requires more restrictive standards than are required by this chapter, the provisions of such statute shall govern.
(Res. No. 2005-10, § 1-0-3.3, 8-15-05)
Sec. 44-4. - Validity and severability.
Should any section or provision of this chapter be declared invalid or unconstitutional by any court of competent jurisdiction, such declaration shall not affect the validity of the regulations as a whole or any part thereof which is not specifically declared to be invalid or unconstitutional.
(Res. No. 2005-10, § 1-0-3.4, 8-15-05)
Sec. 44-5. - Repeal of conflicting ordinances.
All ordinances and parts of ordinances in conflict herewith are repealed to the extent necessary to give the regulations in this chapter full force and effect, except that any ordinances or resolutions repealed by this provision shall not limit or impair the city's authority to enforce such ordinances or resolutions to the extent that violations thereof occurred prior to repeal.
(Res. No. 2005-10, § 1-0-3.5, 8-15-05)
Sec. 44-6. - Codification.
It is the intention of the mayor and council, and it is hereby resolved that the provisions of these regulations shall become and be made a part of this Code of Ordinances of the City of Jonesboro, and the sections of these regulations may be renumbered or reorganized to accomplish such intention.
(Res. No. 2005-10, § 1-0-3.6, 8-15-05)
Secs. 44-7—44-20. - Reserved.
ARTICLE II. - ADMINISTRATION, APPEALS, ENFORCEMENT, AND PENALTIES

Sec. 44-21. - Administration and interpretation.
It shall be the duty of the duly appointed city manager to administer and interpret these regulations. To this end, the city manager is authorized to prepare administrative procedures, guidelines, application forms, to tend to other administrative details not inconsistent with the provisions of these regulations, and to implement the provisions of these regulations. The city manager may delegate administrative functions, powers and duties assigned by these regulations to other staff as may be appropriate, without the need to reflect such delegation by formal action.
(Res. No. 2005-10, § 1-0-4.1, 8-15-05)
Sec. 44-22. - Appeal of an administrative decision or interpretation.
Any person who alleges that there has been an error by the city manager in administration or interpretation of these regulations shall have the right to appeal the decision of the city manager to the mayor and council.
(Res. No. 2005-10, § 1-0-4.2, 8-15-05)
Sec. 44-23. - Land use permit required.
Unless specifically exempted or otherwise provided by these regulations, no building, sign, or other structure shall be erected, moved, added to, or structurally altered without a land use permit issued by the city manager. It shall be unlawful to use or occupy or permit the use or occupancy of any building, structure, land, water, or premises, without a land use permit for such use or occupancy. Unless specifically exempted or otherwise provided by these regulations, no land use activity including land disturbance shall be initiated without a land use permit issued by the city manager, and except in conformity with said land use permit. It shall be unlawful to erect, move, add to, structurally alter any building or structure, use or occupy or permit the use of any occupancy of any building, structure, land, water, or premises, or initiate any land use activity that is in violation of an approved land use permit.
(Res. No. 2005-10, § 1-0-4.3, 8-15-05)
Sec. 44-24. - Plans prepared by licensed professional.
Unless specifically exempted or otherwise provided by these regulations, all plans submitted to the City of Jonesboro must be prepared and sealed by the appropriate licensed professional in the State of Georgia. Therefore, all surveys must be sealed by a licensed surveyor, all engineering plans such as site, grading and drainage, erosion control, utility, as well as hydrologic studies must be sealed by a licensed professional engineer, all landscape plans must be sealed by a licensed landscape architect, and all building plans for buildings greater than 3,000 square feet or if the use is daycare, educational, institutional, or as determined by the city manager must be sealed by a licensed architect.
(Res. No. 2005-10, § 1-0-4.4, 8-15-05)
Sec. 44-25. - Enforcement.
It shall be the duty of the duly appointed city manager to enforce these regulations and to bring to the attention of the city attorney any violations or lack of compliance therewith. The city manager may delegate enforcement functions, powers, and duties assigned by these regulations to other staff as may be appropriate, without the need to reflect such delegation by formal action.
(1)
Refusal of permits or permissions. The city manager is hereby authorized and directed to deny and withhold permits or permissions on any new project or application pursuant to these regulations or other ordinances of the city where the applicant, applicant's business, or agent has failed or refused to comply with these regulations.
(2)
Stop work order. The city manager is hereby authorized to issue written "stop work" and "cease and desist" orders for any activity that fails to comply with the provisions of these regulations. Such "stop work" or "cease and desist" orders may be lifted at such time as the city manager is satisfied that a good faith effort is being made to comply with applicable provisions of these regulations. Nothing shall prevent the city manager from reissuing "stop work" and "cease and desist" orders where warranted.
(3)
Injunction. If any land is used, or building, structure, or other activity is established or maintained in violation of these regulations, the city manager is authorized to and may institute, in addition to other remedies, an injunction or undertake other appropriate action to cause the violation to cease or to be corrected.
(Res. No. 2005-10, § 1-0-4.5, 8-15-05)
Sec. 44-26. - Complaints.
Whenever a violation of these regulations occurs or is alleged to have occurred, any person may file a written complaint. Such complaint shall state clearly and fully the causes and bases of the complaint and shall be filed with the city manager. The city manager shall record properly such complaint, investigate, and take action thereon as may be appropriate to enforce these regulations.
(Res. No. 2005-10, § 1-0-4.6, 8-15-05)
Sec. 44-27. - Penalties for violation of regulations.
Any person violating any of the provisions of the land development regulations shall have all current permits and certificates of occupancy revoked and will not be granted any additional permits or certificates of occupancy on any other project until all violations are remedied. In addition, a fine not to exceed $1,000.00 per violation may be levied by the city.
(Res. No. 2005-10, § 1-0-4.7, 8-15-05)
Secs. 44-28—44-40. - Reserved.
ARTICLE III. - ENVIRONMENTAL REGULATIONS
DIVISION 1. - GENERALLY

Sec. 44-41. - Erosion and sedimentation control.
Erosion control shall be as referenced in § 34-31 et seq., the erosion and sedimentation control ordinance as most recently amended and adopted.
(Res. No. 2005-10, § 1-1-2.1, 8-15-05)
Secs. 44-42—44-50. - Reserved.
DIVISION 2. - WETLANDS

Sec. 44-51. - Title.
These regulations shall be known and may be cited as the "Wetlands Protection Regulations."
(Res. No. 2005-10, § 1-1-1.1, 8-15-05)
Sec. 44-52. - Purpose and intent.
Wetlands are indispensable and fragile natural resources with significant development constraints due to flooding, erosion, and soils limitations. In their natural state, wetlands serve man and nature. They provide habitat areas for fish, wildlife and vegetation; water quality maintenance and pollution control; flood control; erosion control; natural resource education; scientific study; and open space and recreational opportunities. In addition, the wise management of forested wetlands is essential to the well being of communities in the State of Georgia. Nationally, a considerable number of wetlands have been lost or impaired by draining, dredging, filling, excavating, building, pollution and other activities. Without additional regulation, piecemeal or cumulative losses of wetlands will continue to occur over time. Therefore, it is in the interest of public safety and general welfare to avoid damage or destruction to wetlands. The purpose of these regulations is to promote wetlands protection by adopting a generalized wetlands map; provide for the withholding of land use and building permits in areas designated as wetlands until a jurisdictional wetland determination is completed; and establish permitted and prohibited land uses within wetlands shown on the generalized wetlands map, current edition.
(Res. No. 2005-10, § 1-1-1.2, 8-15-05)
Sec. 44-53. - Definitions.
Generalized wetlands map: A map of wetlands provided in any U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service National Wetlands Inventory (NWI) map showing wetlands within the local jurisdiction, current edition.
Jurisdictional wetland: An area that meets the definitional requirements for wetlands as determined by the U.S. Army Corps of Engineers.
Jurisdictional wetland determination: A delineation of jurisdictional wetland boundaries by the U.S. Army Corps of Engineers, as required by Section 404 of the Clean Water Act, 33 U.S.C. 1344, as amended.
Regulated activity: Any activity which will, or which may reasonably be expected to, result in the discharge of dredged or fill material into waters of the United States excepting those activities exempted in Section 404 of the Federal Clean Water Act.
Wetlands: Those areas that are inundated or saturated by surface or groundwater at a frequency and duration sufficient to support, and that under normal circumstances do support, a prevalence of vegetation typically adapted for life in saturated soil conditions. Wetlands generally include swamps, marshes, bogs, and similar areas. The ecological parameters for designating wetlands include hydric soils, hydrophytic vegetation, and hydrological conditions that involve a temporary or permanent source of water to cause soil saturation.
(Res. No. 2005-10, § 1-1-1.3, 8-15-05)
Sec. 44-54. - Adoption of generalized wetlands map by reference.
The generalized wetlands map, as defined by these regulations, together with all explanatory matter thereon, is hereby adopted by reference, and hereby made a part of these regulations as if fully set forth herein.
(Res. No. 2005-10, § 1-1-1.4, 8-15-05)
Sec. 44-55. - Applicability.
These regulations shall apply to all lands within the City of Jonesboro that are shown on the generalized wetlands map, as defined by these regulations, as wetlands.
(Res. No. 2005-10, § 1-1-1.5, 8-15-05)
Sec. 44-56. - Permit required.
No land use permit or building permit shall be issued by the city manager for a land use, building, structure, or manufactured home, nor shall any regulated activity as defined by these regulations commence, unless the land use, building, structure, manufactured home or regulated activity conforms to the requirements of these regulations. Prior to a land use permit or building permit being issued, the city manager shall require a site plan or subdivision plat in sufficient detail to review the proposed development for compliance with the provisions of these regulations.
(Res. No. 2005-10, § 1-1-1.6, 8-15-05)
Sec. 44-57. - Jurisdictional wetland determination required.
If an area proposed for development is located within 25 feet of a wetland as shown on the generalized wetlands map, as determined by the city manager, no local land use permit or building permit on said wetland shall be issued until a jurisdictional wetland determination has been completed and either of the following occur:
(1)
The U.S. Army Corps of Engineers determines that there are jurisdictional wetlands present on the proposed development site, a Section 404 permit is required, and either a Section 404 permit or a letter of permission is issued by the Corps for the proposed development; or,
(2)
The U.S. Army Corps of Engineers determines that jurisdictional wetlands are not present on the proposed development site, and no Section 404 permit or letter of permission is required.
(Res. No. 2005-10, § 1-1-1.7, 8-15-05)
Sec. 44-58. - Permitted uses.
The following uses shall be allowed as of right within an area shown as a wetland on the generalized wetlands map, to the extent that they are not prohibited by any other ordinance or law, including laws of trespass, and provided they do not require structures, grading, fill, draining, or dredging except as provided herein.
(1)
Conservation or preservation of soil, water, vegetation, fish and other wildlife, provided it does not affect waters of Georgia or of the United States in such a way that would require an individual Section 404 permit.
(2)
Outdoor passive recreational activities, including fishing, bird watching, hiking, boating, horseback riding, and canoeing.
(3)
Forestry practices applied in accordance with best management practices approved by the Georgia Forestry Commission and as specified in Section 404 of the Clean Water Act.
(4)
The cultivation of agricultural crops. Agricultural activities shall be subject to best management practices approved by the Georgia Department of Agriculture.
(5)
The pasturing of livestock, provided that riparian wetlands are protected, that soil profiles are not disturbed and that approved agricultural Best Management Practices are followed.
(6)
Education, scientific research, and nature trails.
(Res. No. 2005-10, § 1-1-1.8, 8-15-05)
Sec. 44-59. - Prohibited uses.
The following uses are prohibited within wetlands shown on the generalized wetlands map:
(1)
Receiving areas for toxic or hazardous waste or other contaminants.
(2)
Hazardous or sanitary waste landfills.
(Res. No. 2005-10, § 1-1-1.9, 8-15-05)
Secs. 44-60—44-80. - Reserved.
DIVISION 3. - GRADING

Sec. 44-81. - Purposes.
The purposes of these regulations are to limit grading to the minimum amount necessary; establish minimum requirements for grading work; guard against land instability; prevent the unnecessary removal of vegetation; protect the quality of wetlands and watercourses from increased sedimentation; and, to preserve the aesthetic quality of the natural terrain.
(Res. No. 2005-10, § 1-1-3.1, 8-15-05)
Sec. 44-82. - Definitions.
Cut: The removal of naturally occurring earth materials by mechanical means.
Development: Any project involving construction of streets, utilities, buildings or other improvements made to property to accommodate specific uses such as dwellings, office buildings, warehouses, an apartment complex, a store or shopping center; also any alteration to improved or unimproved property, including, but not limited to, construction, reconstruction, conversion, structural alteration, relocation or enlargement of any structure; any mining, dredging, excavation, filling, grading, paving, excavating, drilling operations, permanent storage of materials or other land disturbance; and any use or extension of a use of land; also the act of constructing or implementing a land development project, including the alteration of land or vegetation in preparation for construction activity.
Elevation: The vertical height or heights above a datum plane which for purposes of these regulations shall be the mean sea level datum of the United States Coast and Geodetic Survey of 1929 or other customarily accepted source.
Existing grade: The elevation of the ground surface at any given point prior to cutting or filling.
Fill: The deposit of soil, rock or other material by man.
Finished grade: The elevation of the ground surface at any given point after cutting or filling.
Grading: Any cutting, or filling or combination thereof and includes the land in its cut or filled condition.
Natural drainage: Channels formed by the existing surface topography of the earth prior to changes made by unnatural causes.
Slope: An inclined ground surface, the inclination of which is expressed as a ratio of horizontal distance to vertical distance.
(Res. No. 2005-10, § 1-1-3.2, 8-15-05)
Sec. 44-83. - Grading permit required.
A grading permit shall be required for all grading activities for any site if the combined volume of excavation, fill, dredging, or other movement of earth materials is more than 50 cubic yards unless specifically exempted by these regulations. No grading as specified in this section shall take place until grading plans have been submitted to, approved by, and a grading permit issued by the city manager. At the applicant's option, where there will be construction or placement of a building following grading activities, the grading approval and permit may be a component of any required land use permit or building permit.
(Res. No. 2005-10, § 1-1-3.3, 8-15-05)
Sec. 44-84. - Exemptions.
The following grading activities shall be exempt from the requirement to file grading plans and received a grading permit.
(1)
Excavations and filling of cemetery graves.
(2)
Excavations for exploratory investigations by soil scientists, engineering geologists, and the like.
(3)
Grading or filling performed exclusively for agricultural activities in fields such as the planting of crops or the raising of livestock, but not including the construction of any building or structure.
(4)
Operation of surface mines and other activities involving the extraction of mineral and earth materials subject to the regulations and under a permit of the Georgia Department of Natural Resources.
(5)
Sanitary landfills or other landfills subject to the regulations and under a permit of the Georgia Department of Natural Resources.
(6)
Stockpiling and handling of earth material when the earth material is consumed or produced in a process which is the principal use of the site.
(7)
On-site work required for construction, repair, repaving, replacement or reconstruction of an existing road, street or utility installation in a public right-of-way.
(8)
Trenching and backfilling for the installation, reconstruction or repair of utilities on property other than a public right-of-way.
(9)
Underground storage tank removal and replacement that is subject to regulation by a state or federal agency.
(Res. No. 2005-10, § 1-1-3.4, 8-15-05)
Sec. 44-85. - Specifications for grading plans.
An application for a grading permit or approval shall be made to the city manager. The grading plans shall be prepared by, or under the direction of, a registered civil engineer for all applications where the total amount of materials graded is more than 2,500 cubic yards. Grading plans shall show existing and proposed contour lines at an interval of no more than two feet. Grading plans shall outline the areas which are required to remain undisturbed (i.e., tree protection areas, buffers, etc.) and shall indicate all protective measures such as fencing or staking to be placed surrounding such areas. The city manager may require additional information pertaining to the specific site and any other relevant information needed in order to assess potential hazards associated with the proposed grading activities and to determine whether a grading permit or approval should be issued. Grading plans shall be processed in accordance with procedures for land development permits or, when not submitted simultaneously with a building permit application, shall be processed and a final decision made by the city manager within 30 days of receiving a completed application.
(Res. No. 2005-10, § 1-1-3.5, 8-15-05)
Sec. 44-86. - Site grading regulations.
(a)
Final graded slopes shall be no steeper than is safe for the intended use. The maximum slopes for cut or fill shall be 2:1 (two feet of horizontal run for each foot of rise or fall), except as approved by the city manager.
(b)
When a cut is made in rock that requires blasting, the slope may be steeper if presplitting is employed and upon submission of a geotechnical report which substantiates the integrity of the rock in the steeper condition, subject to the review and approval of the city manager. No blasting shall occur without a valid permit issued by the fire marshal.
(c)
Grading shall not create or contribute to flooding, erosion, or increased turbidity, siltation or other forms of pollution in a watercourse.
(d)
All grading shall occur entirely within the site, unless encroachment on adjoining property is shown on grading plans and the applicant provides; proof of ownership, an easement authorizing the encroachment, or a letter signed by the owner of the adjoining property which authorizes such temporary encroachments during construction on the adjoining property.
(e)
Any grading shall be performed in such a manner that final contours appear to be consistent with the existing terrain, both on and adjacent to the site.
(f)
Construction and development plans calling for excessive cutting and filling may be refused a grading permit by the city manager if it is determined that the proposed land use can be supported with less alteration of the natural terrain.
(Res. No. 2005-10, § 1-1-3.6, 8-15-05)
Sec. 44-87. - Erosion control.
Erosion and sedimentation control measures, as required by Section 1-1-4 of this code, shall be coordinated with the sequence of grading, development, and construction operations.
(Res. No. 2005-10, § 1-1-3.7, 8-15-05)
Sec. 44-88. - Requirements for fill material.
Materials used in fills shall comply with the following requirements:
(1)
Material used in filling shall be appropriate to the site and the intended use of that portion of the site.
(2)
Fill shall be composed of earth materials. Any rock or other similar irreducible material used in a fill shall be of a maximum diameter of 12 inches and shall compose not more than 20 percent of the total fill material.
(3)
Topsoil shall not be used as a fill material except that the upper 12 inches of a fill site may be covered with topsoil.
(4)
No frozen or thawing material shall be used in a fill.
(5)
No solid waste, hazardous waste or hazardous material may be used in a fill.
(6)
No organic material shall be used in a fill unless approved by the city manager.
(7)
Fill must be compacted to 95 percent unless the city manager specifies another standard.
(Res. No. 2005-10, § 1-1-3.8, 8-15-05)
Sec. 44-89. - Temporary stockpiling during construction or grading.
Temporary stockpiles of earth materials during construction or grading shall not exceed ten feet in height. Stockpiles shall have slopes no greater than one horizontal to one vertical. Stockpiles shall not be placed in locations that would cause suffocation of root systems of trees to be preserved.
(Res. No. 2005-10, § 1-1-3.9, 8-15-05)
Sec. 44-90. - Compliance.
Grading shall be done in accordance with the lines and grades shown on the approved grading plan.
(Res. No. 2005-10, § 1-1-3.10, 8-15-05)
Secs. 44-91—44-110. - Reserved.
ARTICLE IV. - SUBDIVISIONS AND LAND DEVELOPMENT
DIVISION 1. - GENERALLY

Sec. 44-111. - Title.
These regulations shall be known and may be referred to as the Land Development Regulations of the City of Jonesboro.
(Res. No. 2005-10, § 1-2-1, 8-15-05)
Sec. 44-112. - Purposes.
These regulations are adopted for the following purposes.
(1)
To promote the orderly, planned, efficient, and economic development of the city and to guide future growth in accordance with the comprehensive plan.
(2)
To ensure that lands subdivided are of such character that they can be used for building purposes without danger to the health or safety of residents, and to secure safety from fire, flood, or other menace.
(3)
To prevent the pollution of air, land, streams, and ponds, as well as encourage the wise use and management of natural resources throughout the city, and preserve the topography and beauty of the community and the value of land.
(4)
To ensure the proper provision of improvements such as drainage, water, sewerage, and capital improvements such as schools, parks, playgrounds, recreational facilities, and transportation facilities.
(5)
To provide for open spaces through the most efficient design and layout of the land.
(6)
To establish procedures for the subdivision and re-subdivision of land in order to further the orderly development of land.
(7)
To provide for the proper monumenting of subdivided land and proper legal descriptions.
(8)
To help eliminate the costly maintenance problems that develop when streets and lots are established without proper consideration given to various public purposes.
(Res. No. 2005-10, § 1-2-2, 8-15-05)
Sec. 44-113. - Definitions.
Alley: A strip of land dedicated to public use providing vehicular and pedestrian access to the rear of properties which abut and are served by a public road or street.
Block: An area of land within a subdivision that is entirely surrounded by public streets, public lands, railroad rights-of-way, watercourses, or other well defined and fixed boundaries.
City manager: The city manager, or his/her designee, or his/her staff.
Conservation easement: A legally enforceable agreement between a property owner and the holder of the easement, in a form acceptable to the city attorney and recorded in the office of the Clerk of Superior Court of Clayton County. A conservation easement restricts the existing and future use of the defined tract or lot to conservation use, agriculture, passive recreation, or other use approved by the mayor and city council and prohibits further subdivision or development. Such agreement also provides for the maintenance of open spaces and any improvements on the tract or lot. Such agreement cannot be altered except with the express written permission of the easement holder and any other co-signers. A conservation easement may also establish other provisions and contain standards that safeguard the tract or lot's special resources from negative changes.
Contiguous common parcels: Parcels adjoining or touching other land at a common point and having a common owner, regardless of whether or not portions of the parcels have separate tax lot numbers, or were purchased in different land lots, or were purchased at different times.
Cul-de-sac: A dead-end street of limited length having a primary function of serving adjoining land, and constructed with a turnaround at its end.
Cul-de-sac, temporary: A nonpermanent vehicular turn around located at the termination of a street or alley. Reference subsection 44-158(d) of these regulations for requirements concerning temporary cul-de-sacs.
Deceleration lane: An added roadway lane, of a specified distance and which may include a taper, as approved by the city manager, that permits vehicles to slow down and leave the main vehicle stream.
Dedication: The deliberate appropriation of land by an owner for any general and public use or purpose, reserving to himself no other rights than such as are compatible with the full exercise and enjoyment of the public uses to which the property has been devoted.
Dedication plat: A plat that indicates property to be dedicated for public right-of-way or land for public use.
Development: Any project involving construction of streets, utilities, buildings or other improvements made to property to accommodate specific uses such as dwellings, office buildings, warehouses, an apartment complex, a store or shopping center; also any alteration to improved or unimproved property, including, but not limited to, construction, reconstruction, conversion, structural alteration, relocation or enlargement of any structure; any mining, dredging, excavation, filling, grading, paving, excavating, drilling operations, permanent storage of materials or other land disturbance; and any use or extension of a use of land; also the act of constructing or implementing a land development project, including the alteration of land or vegetation in preparation for construction activity.
Easement: A grant of one or more of the property rights by the property owner to and/or for use by the public, a corporation, or another person or entity.
Escrow account: A type of subdivision improvement guarantee where the subdivider deposits either cash, a note, a bond, or some other instrument readily convertible to cash for specific face value specified by the city manager to cover the costs of required improvements and to guarantee performance of said improvements.
Final plat: The final drawing of a subdivision and, as applicable, dedication, prepared for filing for record with the Clerk of the Clayton County Superior Court, and containing all elements and requirements set forth in these regulations.
Half street: A portion of the ultimate width of a road or street where the remaining portion of the road or street shall be provided at a future date.
Home owners association: An organization formed for the maintenance and operation of the common areas of a development, where membership in the association is automatic with the purchase of a dwelling unit or lot within the development, with the ability to legally assess each owner of a dwelling unit or lot and which has authority to place a lien against all dwelling units and lots within the development.
Letter of credit: A type of subdivision improvement guarantee whereby a subdivider secures an instrument from a bank or other institution or from a person with resources sufficient to cover the cost of improvements required by the city. The instrument pledges the creditor to pay the cost of improvements in case of default by the subdivider.
Lot: A portion or parcel of land separated from other portions or parcels by description (such as on a subdivision plat of record or a survey map or plat) or described by metes and bounds, and intended for use, transfer of ownership, or for building development. The word "lot" shall not include any portion of a dedicated right-of-way.
Lot, corner: A lot abutting upon two or more streets at their intersection.
Lot, depth: The average horizontal distance between the front and rear lot lines.
Lot, double frontage: A lot other than a corner lot that has frontage upon two or more streets that do not interest at a point abutting the property.
Lot, flag: A lot or tract of land of uneven dimensions in which the portion fronting on a street is less than the required minimum width required for construction of a building or structure on that lot.
Lot, through: See "lot, double frontage."
Lot frontage: The width in linear feet of a lot where it abuts the right-of-way of any street.
Lot of record: A lot which is part of a subdivision approved in accordance with land subdivision requirements, a plat of which has been lawfully recorded in the records of the Clerk of the Clayton County Superior Court.
Lot width: The shortest distance between side lot lines measured at the required front building line, or in the absence of a front building line regulation, the distance between side lot lines measured at the front line of the building located or intended to be located on the lot.
Natural conditions: The flora, fauna, soil and water conditions that would develop on a specific tract of land if all human interference were to be removed. The tract of land must have been undisturbed for a sufficient period of time for natural processes to dominate the tract. This period of time will vary among environments.
Off-site: Beyond the boundaries of the property in question.
On-site: Within the boundaries of the property in question.
Original tract: A unit of land which the owner holds under single or unified ownership, or which the owner holds controlling interest on the effective date of these regulations; where all land abutting said tract is separately owned by others, not related to or associated by business partnership with the owner.
Pedestrian way: A public right-of-way or private easement across a block or within a block to provide access for pedestrians and which may, in addition to providing pedestrian access, be used for the installation of utility lines.
Performance bond: A type of subdivision improvement guarantee in the form of a bond, secured by the subdivider from a bonding company, in an amount specified by the city manager to cover the costs of required improvements, and payable to the city. The city may call in the performance bond in the event the subdivider defaults on required improvements.
Person: A natural human being, estate, association, firm, partnership, corporation, or other legal entity.
Preliminary plat: A tentative drawing or map of a proposed subdivision. A preliminary plat is the basis for the approval of the general layout of a land subdivision.
Professional engineer: An engineer duly registered or otherwise authorized by the State of Georgia to practice in the field of civil engineering.
Professional surveyor: A surveyor duly registered or otherwise authorized by the State of Georgia to practice in the field of land surveying.
Protective covenants: Contracts made between private parties as to the manner in which land may be used, with the view toward protecting and preserving the physical and economic integrity of any given area.
Recreation, active: Leisure activities that are facility oriented, such as swimming pools, tennis courts, and ball fields.
Recreation, passive: Leisure activities that are natural resource oriented, such as hiking trails, conservation areas, and nature preserves.
Reservation: A method of holding land for future public use by showing proposed public areas on a subdivision plat.
Reserve strip: A strip of land across the end of, or along the edge of, a street, alley, or lot for the purpose of controlling access which is reserved or held until future street extension or widening.
Right-of-way:
(1)
A strip of land acquired by reservation, dedication, forced dedication, prescription, or condemnation and intended to be occupied by a road, crosswalk, railroad, electric transmission line, oil or gas pipeline, water line, sanitary storm sewer, or other similar use.
(2)
Generally, the right of one to pass over the property of another.
Scenic views and sites: Those geographic areas containing visually significant or unique natural features, as identified in the comprehensive plan, or by other reasonable means.
Sensitive natural areas: Any area, as identified now or hereafter by the department of natural resources, which contains one or more of the following:
(1)
Habitat, including nesting sites, occupied by rare or endangered species;
(2)
Rare or exemplary natural communities;
(3)
Significant landforms, hydroforms, or geological features; and/or
(4)
Other areas so designated by the department of natural resources that are sensitive or vulnerable to physical or biological alteration.
Sidewalk: A hard-surfaced pedestrian access area adjacent to or within the right-of-way of a public road.
Site plan: A scaled, neat, and approximate drawing of a residential, institutional, office, commercial, or industrial development, showing the general layout of a proposed development including among other features the location of buildings, parking areas, and buffers and landscaping. The site plan is the basis for the approval or disapproval of the general layout of a development in the case of a multiple-family residential, institutional, office, commercial, or industrial development.
Slope: Degree of deviation of a surface from the horizontal, usually expressed in percent or degree; the ratio of the difference in elevation between two points on the ground, and the horizontal distance between these two points. For purposes of determining steep slopes, slopes shall be measured between two points on the ground separated by 500 feet or more.
Street: Any vehicular way, other than an alley, that is:
(1)
An existing federal, state, or municipal roadway;
(2)
Constructed as shown upon a plat approved pursuant to law and is open to vehicle travel;
(3)
Constructed and open to vehicle travel as approved by other official action of the mayor and city council; or
(4)
Constructed and open to vehicle travel and shown on a plat duly filed and recorded in the Clerk's Office, Clayton County Superior Court prior to the effective date of adoption of these regulations. Land between the street lines, whether improved or unimproved, shall be considered part of the street.
Street, collector: Unless otherwise defined in the thoroughfare plan, a collector streets is a public street whose function is to collect traffic from neighborhoods and local streets and which connects to another public street of equal of greater classification. A collector street also may provide direct access to adjacent properties.
Street, local: Unless otherwise defined in the thoroughfare plan, a local street is a public street, except an alley, collector, or arterial, which has a primary function to provide direct access to adjoining properties and which serves a limited area only, usually a single land subdivision.
Street, major arterial: Unless otherwise defined in the thoroughfare plan, a major arterial is a public street connecting two or more towns or communities, connecting two highways of equal or greater capacity, or serving as the primary access to a large land area. A major arterial may also serve a large traffic generator and perform a secondary function of providing local access.
Street, marginal access: Unless otherwise defined in the thoroughfare plan, a marginal access street is a residential street parallel and adjacent to a major thoroughfare and which provides access to abutting properties with protection from through-traffic.
Street, private: A road or street that has not been accepted for maintenance by the city and that is not owned and maintained by a state, county, city, or another public entity.
Subdivider: Any person, as defined by these regulations, who undertakes the subdivision of land, and any person having such a proprietary interest in land to be subdivided as will authorize the maintenance of proceedings to subdivide such land under these regulations, or the authorized agent of such person.
Subdivision: A division of a tract or parcel of land into two or more lots, building sites, or other divisions for the purpose of sale or building development, whether immediate or future, including all division of land involving the dedication of a new street or a change in existing streets. The word "subdivision" includes re-subdivision and, when appropriate to the context, relates either to the process of subdividing or to the actual land or area which is subdivided.
Subdivision, minor: A subdivision of three or fewer lots, which does not involve the construction of a new public or private street.
Subdivision, major: The division of a tract or parcel of land into greater than three lots which may or may not involve the construction of a new public or private street; or any subdivision that involves the construction of a new public or private street.
Utility: Public or private water or sewer piping systems, water or sewer pumping stations, electric power lines, fuel or gas pipelines, telephone lines, roads, cable telephone line, fiber optic cable, driveways, bridges, river/lake access facilities, storm water systems and drainage ways, and railroads or other utilities identified by the city. As appropriate to the context, the term "utility" may also include all persons, companies, or governmental agencies supplying the same.
Variance: A minimal variation of the terms of these regulations where such variance will not be contrary to the public interest and where, owing to conditions peculiar to the property and not the result of the actions of the applicant, a literal enforcement of the chapter would result in unnecessary and undue hardship. A variance may be authorized for height, area, size of a structure, yards and opens spaces, and for other requirements of these regulations that prohibit construction; establishment or expansion of a use otherwise prohibited shall not be allowed by variance, nor shall a variance be granted because of the presence of nonconformities in the zoning district or uses in adjoining zoning districts.
(Res. No. 2005-10, § 1-2-3, 8-15-05)
Sec. 44-114. - Authority and delegation.
(a)
Authority. These regulations are adopted pursuant to powers vested in cities by the State of Georgia Constitution, home rule powers, state administrative rules for the adoption and implementation of comprehensive plans, and the protection of vital areas of the state.
(b)
Delegation of powers to mayor and city council. The mayor and city council is vested with the authority to review, approve, conditionally approve, and deny preliminary plats of major subdivisions, and to grant variances from the requirements of these regulations.
(c)
Delegation of powers to city manager. The city manager is vested with the authority to review, approve, conditionally approve or disapprove final plats of minor subdivisions and minor re-subdivisions, lot combination plats, lot line adjustments, dedication plats, construction plans and final plats of major subdivisions when preliminary plat approval has been obtained from the mayor and city council. The city manager shall also be authorized to review major subdivisions and major re-subdivisions for conformity to the requirements of these regulations, and to make reports and recommendations to the mayor and city council on major subdivisions and major re-subdivisions, and to administer, interpret, and enforce the provisions of these regulations. The city manager shall also be vested with the authority to require and approve land development improvements and to require improvement guarantees for public improvements as specified in these regulations.
(Res. No. 2005-10, § 1-2-4, 8-15-05)
Sec. 44-115. - Applicability and general provisions.
(a)
Applicability. These regulations shall apply to all real property within the corporate limits of the City of Jonesboro.
(b)
Land is one tract until subdivided. Until property proposed for subdivision has received final plat approval and a final plat has been properly recorded, the land involving the subdivision shall be considered as one tract, or as otherwise legally recorded.
(c)
All land subdivisions to comply. No person shall sell, advertise, or offer to sell, by deed, map, plat or other instrument, any parcel of land not subdivided under the requirements of these regulations. It shall be unlawful for any person to transfer or sell land by reference to, or by exhibition of, or by other use of, a plat of a land subdivision that has not been approved and recorded in accordance with the requirements of these regulations. The description of such land by metes and bounds in the instrument of transfer shall not exempt the transaction. No plat of land subdivision shall be entitled to be recorded in the Office of the Clerk of the Superior Court of Clayton County, and it shall be unlawful to record such a plat of land subdivision, unless and until it shall have been approved in accordance with the requirements of these regulations. A certificate of occupancy shall not be issued prior to final plat approval. The city manager may choose to issue a certificate of occupancy for up to two model homes in a residential subdivision.
Exceptions. At the discretion of the city manager a certificate of occupancy may be granted for up to two model homes in a residential subdivision prior to final plat approval for the entire subdivision.
(d)
Preliminary plat and plans required prior to construction. No person shall commence construction of any improvements on any lot, prior to the approval of a preliminary plat if required by these regulations, nor prior to approval of construction plans and engineering plans for said improvements are approved as required by these regulations and article IV of this code.
(e)
Building and other permits. No building permit or certificate of occupancy shall be issued for a building, structure, or use, nor shall any excavation, grading, or land disturbance applications be approved, on any parcel of land regulated by these regulations that has not been approved in accordance with the provisions of these regulations.
(f)
Public streets and lands. No land dedicated as a public street or for other public purpose shall be opened, extended, or accepted as a public street or for other public land unless such improvements are constructed in accordance with the specifications of these regulations and said land and/or improvements are formally approved and accepted as public improvements by the mayor and city council in accordance with procedures established in these regulations.
(g)
Appeals. Any person aggrieved by an interpretation or decision of the city manager or other official responsible for the administration of these regulations may file an appeal to the mayor and city council.
(Res. No. 2005-10, § 1-2-5, 8-15-05)
Sec. 44-116. - Exemptions from plat approval.
The following types of land subdivisions, transfers, and sales are specifically exempted from the plat approval requirements of these regulations; provided, however, that such exemptions shall not apply to land development requirements and improvement requirements of article IV of these regulations.
(1)
The creation and sale of cemetery plots.
(2)
The sale of lots consistent with previously approved and recorded plats or deeds.
(3)
The creation of leaseholds for space within a multiple-occupancy building or the division of property into leaseholds for commercial, industrial, or institutional use.
(Res. No. 2005-10, § 1-2-6, 8-15-05)
Sec. 44-117. - Lot combinations.
An existing lot line forming the boundary between two conforming platted lots located within the same subdivision or a lot line between lots or parcels that have merged to form one building lot may be removed or eliminated through a final plat revision process which conforms to the requirements of these regulations. In the case no final plat applies to the subject lots or parcels, a boundary survey and plat depicting all lots involved in the lot combination shall be required to be approved by the city manager and recorded as a final plat. Such combination plat shall be titled with the same name as that of the original subdivision, if applicable, and shall indicate thereon that the replat is for the purpose of removing the lot lines between specific lots.
(Res. No. 2005-10, § 1-2-7, 8-15-05)
Sec. 44-118. - Boundary line adjustments.
One or more existing lot lines forming boundaries between conforming platted lots located within the same subdivision and having the same zoning classification, or one or more lot lines between abutting lots or parcels, may be adjusted through a final plat revision process if the resulting lots meet all setback and lot size requirements established by the zoning district in which they are located. Proposed adjustments require the approval of the city manager and recording of a plat meeting the specifications of a final plat. In the case where no final plat applies to the subject lots or parcels, a boundary survey and plat of the entire lots involved in the boundary line adjustment shall be required to be approved by the city manager and recorded. Such plat showing said boundary line adjustment shall be titled with the same name as that of the original subdivision and shall include thereon that the replat is for the purpose of adjusting the lot lines between specific lots.
(Res. No. 2005-10, § 1-2-8, 8-15-05)
Sec. 44-119. - Design requirements for blocks.
(a)
Block length. Intersecting streets shall be provided at such intervals so as to provide adequate cross traffic. Blocks in residential subdivisions should not exceed 600 feet nor be less than 300 feet in length, except where topography or other conditions justify a departure from these standards.
(b)
Block width. The width of the block shall normally be sufficient to allow two tiers of lots of appropriate depth. Blocks intended for business or industrial use shall be of such width as to be considered most suitable for their respective use, including adequate space for off-street parking and deliveries.
(Res. No. 2005-10, § 1-2-9, 8-15-05)
Sec. 44-120. - Design requirements for lots.
(a)
Natural features and assets. In the subdividing of land, due regard shall be shown for all natural features, such as tree growth, watercourses, historic sites or similar conditions which, if preserved, will add attractiveness to the proposed development and ensure safety from hazards.
(b)
Access and minimum lot frontage. Each lot shall have access to a public street and a minimum of 50 feet of lot frontage on a public street; provided, however, that the local governing body may permit one or more lots to be accessed by private streets, as more fully specified in article IV of these regulations; provided further, that in the case of a lot accessed by a circular cul-de-sac, the minimum lot frontage may be reduced to 30 feet.
(c)
Adequate buildable area required. Land subject to flooding, improper drainage or erosion, or that is unsuitable for residential or other use for topographical or other reasons, shall not be platted for residential use nor for any other use that will continue or increase the danger to health, safety, or of property destruction, unless the hazards can be and are corrected. Each lot shall contain an adequate building site not subject to flooding and outside the limits of any existing easements or building setback lines required by the local governing body.
(d)
Lot remnants not permitted. All remands of lots below any required minimum lot size that may be remaining upon subdividing of a larger tract must be added to adjacent lots, rather than allowed to remain as unusable parcels. The city manager may permit a lot remnant for a specific purpose such as open space or a detention pond, provided that access and design are in accordance with city standards and the lot remnant is restricted to specific non-building use.
(e)
Service areas. Commercial and industrial lots shall be adequate to provide service areas and off-street parking suitable to the use intended.
(f)
Lot area. The minimum lot area shall not be less than that established by the zoning district in which the lot is located.
(g)
Lot width. No portion of a lot shall be narrower than 45 feet, with the exception of cul-de-sac lots) nor shall any lot have a lot width less than that established by the zoning district in which the lot is located.
(h)
Flag lots. No lot shall be approved which constitutes a flag lot.
(i)
Side lot lines. Insofar as practical, side lot lines shall be at right angles to straight street lines or radial to curved street lines.
(j)
Corner lots. Corner lots shall have adequate width to meet the front building setback requirements from all rights-of-way. One of the street frontages shall be designated as the front yard, the yard opposite the designated front yard shall become the rear yard, and the yard opposite the remaining street frontage shall become the side yard. The resulting setbacks (two front, one rear, one side) shall meet the applicable setback requirements.
(k)
Double frontage lots. Double frontage or "through" lots should be avoided except where essential to provide separation of residential development from arterials or overcome specific disadvantages of topography or orientation. Double frontage lots with frontage on a major arterial street shall have additional depth in order to allow space for a minimum 25 feet screen planting along the lot line abutting the major arterial street. Only one frontage may provide access; secondary access is prohibited.
(Res. No. 2005-10, § 1-2-10, 8-15-05; Ord. No. 2015-008a, § 2, 8-10-2015)
Sec. 44-121. - Easements.
Where a watercourse, drainage way, channel or stream traverses a subdivision, there shall be provided a stormwater or drainage easement measuring a minimum of 20 feet in width. However, a larger easement may be required as determined by the city manager. Easements shall be provided for all drainage facilities as approved by the city manager. Where easements are needed for utility locations, the subdivider shall provide them to the appropriate utility provider. Where easements are needed for public water and/or sanitary sewer lines, they shall be provided as determined appropriate by the city manager and in accordance with the Clayton County Water Authority specifications. All easements required pursuant to this section shall be shown on the preliminary plat, if required, and final plat.
(Res. No. 2005-10, § 1-2-11, 8-15-05)
Sec. 44-122. - Survey monuments for all lots required.
For all subdivisions, a Georgia registered land surveyor shall install permanent survey monuments at all property corners and land lot lines, prior to final plat approval. Lot corners shall be marked with metal rods not less than one-half-inch in diameter and 18 inches in length and driven so as to be stabilized in the ground. Permanent survey monuments shall also be installed in accordance with the most recent edition of Section 180-7-.05 Monument of the Rules of State Board of Registration for Professional Engineers and Land Surveyors and the Georgia Plat Act (O.C.G.A. § 15-6-67).
(Res. No. 2005-10, § 1-2-12, 8-15-05)
Sec. 44-123. - Preliminary plat.
(a)
Purpose. The purpose of this section is to ensure compliance with the basic design concepts and improvement requirements of subdivisions and land developments through the submittal of a preliminary plat of all major subdivisions for review and approval by the mayor and city council.
(b)
When required. All major subdivisions, and any subdivision involving the dedication of a public street, shall require the submission of a preliminary plat to the city manager for review and approval by the mayor and city council. Prior to the issuance of any permit for land disturbance, or the installation of any improvements, the mayor and city council must approve the preliminary plat, if required.
(c)
Preliminary plat application and specifications. Preliminary plat applications shall be made in accordance with requirements shown in Table 1 of section 44-125, and preliminary plats shall meet the minimum plat specifications shown in Table 2 of section 44-125.
(d)
Procedures. Upon receipt of a completed preliminary plat application, the city manager shall schedule the application for the next public meeting before the mayor and city council and forward a staff report and all pertinent materials in the application to the mayor and city council for review. An application for preliminary plat approval must be submitted at least 60 days before the regular meeting date of the mayor and city council to be considered on that agenda. The mayor and city council shall have 60 days from the date the public meeting is held to approve, conditionally approve, or deny the preliminary plat application. The basis of the mayor and city council's review of and action on a preliminary plat shall be whether the preliminary plat meets the purposes and requirements of these regulations, and all other ordinances that relate to the proposed development.
(e)
Disposition. Approval of a preliminary plat shall be valid for a period of one year, within which time a complete construction plans application must be submitted. If a completed application for construction plans is not submitted during that time, preliminary plat approval shall expire and be null and void.
(f)
Appeal. Denial of preliminary plat approval may be appealed to the mayor and council.
(g)
Amendments to approved preliminary plats. The city manager is authorized to approve minor amendments to preliminary plats. A minor amendment is defined as a change to the preliminary plat that does not significantly alter the overall development scheme, causes the plat to not be in compliance with the zoning ordinance or land development regulations, and does not adversely affect the public interest. Examples include changes of less than ten percent to density, lot size, percentage of open space reserved, or street access provisions. Any proposed amendment to a preliminary plat that is determined by the city manager to constitute a matter of public interest shall be deemed a major amendment. For all amendments to preliminary plats determined to be major amendments, mayor and city council approval shall be required. The mayor and city council shall approve, conditionally approve, or deny the proposed major amendment to a preliminary plat. Procedures for considering a major amendment to a preliminary plat shall be the same as required for an initial application for preliminary plat approval.
(Res. No. 2005-10, § 1-2-13, 8-15-05)
Sec. 44-124. - Construction plans.
(a)
Application. Upon approval of a preliminary plat, the subdivider or land developer may apply for construction plan approval. In the case of a minor subdivision, or in cases where a preliminary plat is not required by this article, the subdivider or land developer may apply for approval of construction plans; provided, however, that in the case of a minor subdivision or land development the applicant for construction plan approval should hold a pre-application conference with the city manager to ensure that plans meet the intent and specific provisions of these regulations and other applicable regulations. The construction plan approval process is administrative. Applications for construction plan approval shall be made in accordance with requirements shown in the Tables 1 and 2 of section 44-125 below. No application for construction plans shall be accepted for processing nor approved by the city manager until a preliminary plat, if required, has been approved by the mayor and city council and the proposed construction plans are found by the city manager to be in substantial conformity with said approval and any conditions of such approval.
(b)
City manager's decision criteria. The sole basis upon which the city manager may deny a construction plan is the failure of the application to meet the requirements of these regulations or any other applicable local regulations or the failure of the construction plans and application to meet the requirements of preliminary plat approval specified by the mayor and city council.
(c)
Certificate of approval. All copies of the construction plans shall be noted by inscription on the plans noting such approval by the city manager. Construction plan approval shall expire and be null and void after a period of one year following approval, unless activity toward improvements on the land has been initiated as deemed by the city manager, or unless the city manager approves an extension of time. If at any time after the extension is approved the site is inactive for a period of one month, the extension may be revoked by the city manager and a new submittal shall be required.
(Res. No. 2005-10, § 1-2-14, 8-15-05)
Sec. 44-125. - Final plat.
(a)
When required. All major subdivisions, minor subdivisions, and dedications shall require final plat approval. The final plat approval process is administrative. Applications shall be made in accordance with requirements shown in the Table 1 below.
Table 1. Application Requirements
EXPAND
Requirement Minor Subdivision (three lots or less) Major Subdivision
Preliminary Plat Construction Plans Final Plat
Pre-development review with staff Required Required Required
Application form completed Required Required Required Required
Letter of intent Required
Number of copies of plat 3 3 3 3
Filing fee (current rates are on file with City Hall) Required Required Required Required
Description of type of water supply and sewerage system and utilities to be provided Required Required Required Required
Data on existing conditions Required
Hydrological or other engineering study Per city
manager Required
Subdivision entrance monument and landscaping elevation/plan (prepared by registered landscape architect) Per city manager Required Required
Warranty deed for the dedication of streets and other public places Required Required
Written approval from electric utility company regarding installation of service points and street lights Required
As-built drawings of public improvements Required
Subdivision improvement guarantee Required
Title Required Required
Plat Certificates Required Required
  All plans must be submitted in a format that is legible and easy to read. Plans may be rejected if they are not in the appropriate format as determined by the city manager. Unless specifically exempted or otherwise provided by these regulations, all plans submitted to the City of Jonesboro must be prepared and sealed by the appropriate licensed professional in the State of Georgia. Therefore, all surveys must be sealed by a licensed surveyor, all engineering plans such as site, grading and drainage, erosion control, utility, as well as hydrologic studies must be sealed by a licensed professional engineer, all landscape plans must be sealed by a licensed landscape architect, and all building plans for building greater than 3,000 square feet, or if the use is daycare, educational, or institutional or if determined to be required by the city manager must be sealed by a licensed architect.
(b)
Criteria for approval. The city manager may grant final plat approval if the following conditions, as applicable, are met.
(1)
The mayor and city council has previously approved a preliminary plat of the proposed subdivision, if required (not required for minor subdivision).
(2)
Where new improvements are involved in the subdivision, construction plans have been approved by the city manager, and all improvements have been installed and inspected by the city manager's designee, and subdivision improvement guarantees as required by these regulations have been submitted.
(3)
The final plat meets all applicable requirements of these regulations.
(4)
A complete final plat application has been submitted, including all supporting materials required by this chapter for final plats.
The city manager shall consider final plats and applications that meet the above-referenced conditions a ministerial action of approval. Denial of a final plat shall be permitted only upon specific findings that one or more of the above-referenced conditions have not been met.
Table 2. Plat and Plan Requirements
EXPAND
Required Information (Required to be on the plat or construction plans) Preliminary Plat Construction Plans Final Plat
Scale (minimum) 1"=100 feet 1"=100 feet 1"=100 feet
Sheet size (maximum) 24" × 36" 24" × 36" 18" × 22"
North arrow and graphic engineering scale Required Required Required
Reference to north point (magnetic, true north, or grid north) Required Required Required
Proposed name of subdivision or project and phases, if any Required Required Required
Site Location Map Required Required Required
Site Information
Site Plan Required Required Required
Grading plan Required Required
Existing conditions, features (existing/proposed) Required Required Required
Use by acreage Required Required Required
Lot size in acreage and square feet Required Required Required
Lot coverage by structures Required Required Required
Sidewalks (improvements/existing) Required Required Required
Location of ground sign(s), equipments, dumpster Required Required
Detention facilities Required Required Required
Impervious surface Required Required Required
Fencing Type Required
Drainage Required Required Required
Construction staging/storage/disposal Required
Hydrology Report Preliminary
Calculations Required Required (as-built Hydrology)
All site features labeled Required Required Required
Utilities (overhead/underground) Required Required Required
Property lines/right of way/adjacent streets Required Required Required
Setbacks Required Required Required
Structures
Building Footprints(s) Recommended Required Required
No. of structures Required Required Required
No. of floors and units/floor Per city manager Per city manager Required
Density/acre (residential) Required Required Required
Exterior building lighting Required Required
Building materials Required Required Required
Gross leaseable space Required Required
Building height Required Required
Total Units Required Required Required
Floor plans/uses Required Required Required
Equipment placement Required Required
Exterior colors, architecture Required Required Required
Building elevations Required Required Required
Traffic Flow/Parking
Parking Spaces Required Required Required
Dimensions of parking Required Required Required
Traffic flow, ingress/egress, fire lanes Required Required Required
Curb cuts/ROW improvements Required Required Required
Interior parking lot landscaping Required Required Required
Decel lane Required Required Required
Parking calculations on plans Required Required Required
Driveway dimensions Required Required Required
Loading zones Required Required Required
DOT Permit Approved (If required) Required
Parking lot lighting Required Required
Landscaping/Buffers
Buffer/landscape/tree protection areas labeled Required Required Required
Proposed structures, vehicle use areas, sidewalks, wheel stops or curbs, walls and fences Required Required Required
Plant material list (common and botanical names) Required Required Required
Plant quantities Required Required Required
Plant size and condition Required Required Required
Plant spacing Required Required Required
Notation to ensure proper plant selection upon installation Required Required Required
Existing and finish grade topographic lines at an interval no greater than two feet (within areas with or adjacent to land form changes) Required Required Required
Other
Drawing sealed by a licensed professional Required Required Required
Preliminary D.O.T. comments incorporated in Plan Required Required
Acknowledgement that a copy of the executed NPDES NOI form is required prior to issuance of a development permit Required Required
Land to be dedicated Required
Submission of a digital electronic copy in PDF format Required Required
  Unless specifically exempted or otherwise provided by these regulations, all plans submitted to the City of Jonesboro must be prepared and sealed by the appropriate licensed professional in the State of Georgia. Therefore, all surveys must be sealed by a licensed surveyor, all engineering plans such as site, grading and drainage, erosion control, utility, as well as hydrologic studies must be sealed by a licensed professional engineer, all landscape plans must be sealed by a licensed landscape architect, and all building plans for building greater than 3,000 square feet, or if the use is daycare, educational, or institutional or if determined to be required by the city manager must be sealed by a licensed architect.
(c)
Approval certificate. Upon approval of the final plat, a certificate, stamped directly on the plat, shall state:
Pursuant to the Development Regulations of the City of Jonesboro Georgia, and all requirements of approval having been fulfilled, this final plat was given preliminary approval by the Mayor and City Council on _______, 20___, and final approval by the City Manager and it is entitled to recordation in the Clerk's Office, Clayton County Superior Court.
By:
EXPAND
/s/
      Mayor, City of Jonesboro
    By:
EXPAND
/s/
      City Manager, City of Jonesboro
    (d)
Additional plat certificates. In addition to information required by Table 2 in subsection (b)(4) above to be supplied on a final plat, each final plat shall contain the following certificates.
Surveyor's certificate. A certificate by a surveyor directly on the final plat as follows:
It is hereby certified that this plat is true and correct and was prepared from an actual survey of the property by me or persons under my supervision; that all monuments shown hereon actually exist or are marked as "future," and that their location, size, type and material are correctly shown; and that all engineering requirements of the Development Regulations of the City of Jonesboro, Georgia, have been fully complied with.
By:______________________
Registered Georgia Land Surveyor No.:_______
Owner's certificate. A certificate by the owner directly on the final plat, signed in an appropriate manner as follows:
The owner of the land shown on this plat and whose name is subscribed hereto, in person or through a duly authorized agent, certifies that this plat was made from an actual survey, and that all State, City and County taxes or other assessments now due on this land have been paid. Said owner donates and dedicates to the public for use forever the street right-of-way and improvements have been installed therein as shown on this plat.
EXPAND
      Owner
    Signed, sealed and delivered in the presence of:
EXPAND
      Witness
    EXPAND
      Notary Public
    Health Department Approval Certificate.
"This final plat has been approved by the Clayton County Health Department as being consistent with applicable state and local environmental health requirements.
EXPAND
      Manager, Clayton County Health Department"
    (Res. No. 2005-10, § 1-2-15, 8-15-05)
Sec. 44-126. - Dedications of streets and public lands.
Subdivision streets and right-of-ways and other lands to be dedicated to the public shall be accepted and dedicated by the city only upon the delivery to the mayor and city council of the general warranty deed conveying fee simple title of such right-of-ways and lands. The warranty deed shall be accompanied by an attorney's certificate of title and a tax transfer form addressed to the mayor and city council certifying that the grantor in such deed is vested with marketable fee simple title to the property conveyed thereby, free and clear of all liens and encumbrances, and further that the individual executing such deed has full authority to do so. Acceptance of such dedication shall be accomplished by resolution of the mayor and city council, a certified copy of which shall be attached to both the deed of dedication and the final plat.
(Res. No. 2005-10, § 1-2-16, 8-15-05)
Sec. 44-127. - Subdivision improvement guarantees.
In order to protect the city and prospective purchasers of and residents in a subdivision, the subdivider/developer shall provide the financial security to guarantee the installation of public improvements. The subdivider or developer's financial guarantee may be any of the following:
(1)
An escrow of funds with the city;
(2)
An escrow with a bank or savings and loan association upon which the city can draw;
(3)
An irrevocable letter of commitment or credit upon which the city can draw;
(4)
A performance bond for the benefit of the city upon which the city can collect, or a certificate of deposit with assignment letter; and
(5)
Any other form of guarantee approved by the mayor and city council that will satisfy the objectives of this section. The guarantee shall be in an amount to secure the full costs, as determined by the city, of constructing or installing the improvements and utilities required.
(Res. No. 2005-10, § 1-2-17, 8-15-05)
Sec. 44-128. - Limitations on minor subdivisions.
(a)
Purpose. Minor subdivisions provide certain advantages to the applicant, such as a shorter application process and less public scrutiny, that tend to favor their use over the filing of major subdivision applications. Given these advantages, the prospect exists that subdividers may seek to divide a parcel via consecutive and/or contiguous minor subdivisions instead of filing for a major subdivision. It is the intent of the mayor and city council to prohibit the practice of such "chain" subdivisions where the same land owner subdivides land and then files minor subdivision applications on common contiguous parcels, which collectively total more than three lots. It is also the intent of the mayor and city council to prohibit adjacent minor subdivisions within a three-year time period, in cases where part of an original tract of land is now owned by another person or entity and was transferred or sold to another owner with the apparent intent to circumvent the major subdivision process.
(b)
Common contiguous parcels shown on minor subdivision plats. Contiguous common parcels, as defined by these regulations, shall be referenced on all applications for minor subdivisions, and contiguous common parcels shall be considered part of any application for minor subdivision, for purposes of determining whether or not the division of land proposed is a major subdivision or a minor subdivision.
(c)
Limitations. Land within a minor subdivision, including all contiguous parcels owned by the subdivider, shall not be further divided for a period of three years unless a preliminary plat application is filed and approved as a major subdivision pursuant to the requirements of these regulations. If property proposed to be subdivided was part of an original tract, and if the property proposed to be subdivided abuts land that has been divided as a minor subdivision in the last three years, then minor subdivision of said property shall be prohibited. This provision shall not be construed to prohibit the approval of two contiguous minor subdivisions under separate ownership; however, this provision is intended to be construed liberally so that one property owner does not develop a minor subdivision on part of an original tract and transfer or sell another part of the original tract for the purposes of minor subdivision within a three-year period. It is the intent that land abutting a minor subdivision that was owned by the subdivider of the abutting minor subdivision shall not be subdivided as a minor subdivision for a period of three years, regardless of ownership.
(Res. No. 2005-10, § 1-2-18, 8-15-05)
Sec. 44-129. - Private streets.
(a)
Private streets permitted. Private streets may, upon application, be permitted by the mayor and city council within major subdivisions, subject to the requirements of this section. Applications for approval of private streets shall be considered by the mayor and city council at the time of preliminary plat approval by the mayor and city council. Following consideration by the mayor and city council to authorize private streets in a major subdivision, the mayor and city council shall consider the application and may impose conditions on the approval of private streets to achieve various public purposes and to avoid potential problems with private streets. No final plat involving a private street shall be approved unless said final plat conforms to the requirements of this section.
(b)
Engineering plans required. It shall be unlawful for any person, firm, or corporation to construct a new private street or alter an existing private street or to cause the same to be done without first obtaining approval of engineering and construction plans from the city manager in accordance with the requirements of these regulations and article IV of this code.
(c)
Standards. All private streets shall be constructed to all standards for public streets as required by article IV of this code, applicable construction specifications of the City, Georgia Department of Transportation (GDOT) standards and as approved by the city manager.
(d)
Street names and signs. Private streets shall be named, subject to the approval of the city manager. The subdivider of land involving a private street shall install street signs with content containing the street name and the designation "private," as approved by the city manager. The sign signifying the private street may be required by the city manager to be a different color than that of street signs provided for public streets, in order to distinguish maintenance responsibilities in the field.
(e)
Easements. Easements for private streets shall be designated on final plats as general-purpose public access and utility easements, along with the name of said private street. Said easement shall at minimum be of the same width as that required for the right-of-way of a public street by the comprehensive plan or city manager for the type of public street (local, collector, etc.) most closely resembling the proposed private street. Easements for private streets shall not be included in any calculation of minimum lot size or limitations established by local zoning districts. In the cases of private streets, the general-purpose public access and utility easement for the private street shall either;
(1)
Be shown in a manner on the final plat such that each lot fronting the private street extends to the centerline of the private street. No lot shall be permitted to be divided by the general purpose public access and utility easement required and established for a private street; or
(2)
Shall be drawn as its own discrete parcel to be dedicated to a private homeowners association (i.e., not shown to be a part of any lot).
(f)
Maintenance. The city shall not maintain, repair, resurface, rebuild, or otherwise improve streets, signs, drainage improvements or any other appurtenances within general purpose public access and utility easements established for private streets. A private maintenance covenant recorded with the County Clerk of the Superior Court shall be required for any private street and other improvements within general-purpose public access and utility easements established for private streets. The covenant shall set out the distribution of expenses, remedies for non-compliance with the terms of the agreement, rights to the use of easements, and other pertinent considerations. The covenant shall specifically include the following terms.
(1)
The covenant shall establish minimum annual assessments in an amount adequate to defray costs of ordinary maintenance and procedures for approval of additional needed assessments. The covenant shall also specify that the funds from such assessments will be held by a homeowners or property owners association in cases of a subdivision of seven or more lots fronting on a private street.
(2)
The covenant shall require the formation of a homeowner's association that will be responsible for maintenance and upkeep of all common areas of the development.
(3)
The covenant shall include a periodic maintenance schedule.
(4)
The covenant for maintenance shall be enforceable by any property owner served by the private street.
(5)
The covenant shall establish a formula for assessing maintenance and repair costs equitably to property owners served by the private street.
(6)
The covenant shall run with the land.
(7)
The mayor and city council may, at its discretion, as a condition of approving private streets, require a performance bond and/or maintenance bond be submitted by the subdivider and held by a homeowners or property owners association, or the council may require that the subdivider pay an amount of money as recommended by the city manager into an escrow account or other suitable account for the maintenance and repair of private streets and stormwater management improvements, to be drawn from by the homeowners or property owners association as maintenance and repair needs may arise.
(g)
Specifications for final plats involving private streets. The city manager shall not approve for recording any final plat involving a private street unless and until it shall contain the following on the face of the plat:
(1)
Deed book and page reference to the recorded covenant required by this section;
(2)
"WARNING, City of Jonesboro has no responsibility to build, improve, maintain, or otherwise service the private streets, drainage improvements, or other appurtenances contained within the general public purpose access or utility easement or easements for private streets shown on this plat.";
(3)
"Grant of Easement. The general purpose public access and utility easement(s) shown on this plat for private street(s) is hereby granted and said grant of rights shall be liberally construed to provide all necessary authority to the City, and to public or private utility companies serving the subdivision, for the installation and maintenance of utilities, including, but not limited to, electric lines, gas lines, telephone lines, water lines, sewer lines, cable television lines, and fiber optic cables, together with the right to trim interfering trees and brush, together with a perpetual right of ingress and egress for installation, maintenance, and replacement of such improvements.
EXPAND
      Signature of Property Owner"; and,
    (4)
(The following certificate of dedication shall be required, unless the mayor and city council waives the dedication requirement.)
"Certificate of Dedication. All water and sewer lines installed within the general purpose public access and utility easement(s) shown on this plat for private street(s) are hereby dedicated to the City of Jonesboro.
EXPAND
      Notarized Signature of Property Owner."
    (h)
Requirement for purchaser's acknowledgement of private responsibilities. Prior to the sale or as a condition of the closing of a real estate transaction involving any lot served by a private street in the city, the subdivider or seller of said lot shall execute a notarized purchaser's acknowledgement of private street construction and drainage maintenance responsibilities as set forth below. A copy of the purchaser's acknowledgement shall be retained by the purchaser and shall be required to be submitted as a condition of a building permit for a principal building on said lot:
"Purchaser's Acknowledgement of Private Street and Drainage Maintenance Responsibility
(I)/(We) have read the Declaration of Covenant which pertains to the lot that is the subject of this real estate transaction _______ (insert address or attach legal description). (I)/(We) understand that the Declaration of Covenant applies to the lot that (I am)/(we are) purchasing and requires (me)/(us) to provide a specified percentage or amount of the financing for the construction and maintenance of any private street and drainage facilities serving the lot which (I am)/(we are) purchasing, and that owners of other lots on this plat may sue for and recover those costs which this covenant requires (me)/(us) to pay, plus their damages resulting from (my)/(our) refusal to contribute, plus reasonable attorneys fees. (I)/(We) further understand that the City has no obligation to assist with the maintenance and improvement of the private street, drainage facilities, and other appurtenances within the general purpose public access and utility easement for the private road serving the above lot in question. (I)/(We) understand that a copy of this purchaser's acknowledgement shall be required as a condition of the issuance of a building permit for a principal building on the lot (I am)/(we are) purchasing.
______________________
Purchaser
______________________
Purchaser
______________________
Notary
______________________
Date"
(Res. No. 2005-10, § 1-2-19, 8-15-05)
Secs. 44-130—44-150. - Reserved.
DIVISION 2. - IMPROVEMENTS REQUIRED

Sec. 44-151. - Purpose.
The purpose of these regulations is to establish minimum design requirements, standards, and specifications for improvements within subdivisions and land developments.
(Res. No. 2005-10, § 1-3-1, 8-15-05)
Sec. 44-152. - Definitions.
Definitions pertaining to these regulations shall be as provided in article III of this code.
(Res. No. 2005-10, § 1-3-2, 8-15-05)
Sec. 44-153. - Authority of city manager.
The city manager is hereby authorized to review and approve plans for subdivisions and land developments to ensure compliance with the requirements of this code. The city manager is further authorized to prepare and promulgate standards, standard drawings, and specifications to more specifically implement the intent of the improvement requirements of this code.
(Res. No. 2005-10, § 1-3-3, 8-15-05)
Sec. 44-154. - Applicability.
No person to which this code section applies shall commence construction of any improvements on any land, prior to the approval of construction plans and engineering plans for said improvements, as required by article III of this code, according to the improvement standards specified in this code section and as adopted by the City of Jonesboro. No building permit or certificate of occupancy shall be issued for a building, structure, or use, nor shall any excavation, grading, or land disturbance applications be approved, on any parcel of land that does not meet the improvement requirements specified in this section and as adopted by the City of Jonesboro pursuant to this section.
(Res. No. 2005-10, § 1-3-4, 8-15-05)
Sec. 44-155. - Engineered drawings.
Engineering drawings for public streets, including cross sections and centerline profiles, and public and private water, sewer, drainage, and utility systems, certified by a professional engineer registered in the State of Georgia shall be required to be submitted for review and approval, and such plans must meet the requirements of this code section and the specifications of the city manager. Prior to approval and recording of a final plat, or prior to the approval of any certificate of occupancy, a registered engineer for the subdivider/developer shall submit one copy of all finished, as-built plans of improvements, demonstrating that said improvements, as installed, meet the requirements of this code section and certifying that the plans accurately reflect actual construction and installation. Once the as-built plans have been approved, an electronic copy of the plans shall be submitted in PDF format. The city manager shall maintain all as-built street and utility plans for future use by the city.
(Res. No. 2005-10, § 1-3-5, 8-15-05)
Sec. 44-156. - Permits for construction in public right-of-way.
Permits from the city manager shall be required for construction in any public right-of-way. Permits will not be issued until such time that plans have been submitted and approved by the city manager. Permit fees shall be approved by resolution of the mayor and city council.
(Res. No. 2005-10, § 1-3-6, 8-15-05)
Sec. 44-157. - Improvements to abutting land.
For subdivisions and land developments that abut and access a public street, the subdivider or land developer shall install curb and gutter, sidewalk, other road improvements, and, if required, a deceleration lane and/or acceleration lane, according to standards and specifications of the city manager, along all abutting public streets. When a subdivision or land development uses an unpaved public right-of-way for access, the subdivider or land developer shall improve that right-of-way to a pavement width consistent with city road design standards. Said improvements shall be from the subdivision or land development entrance to the paved public road which the city manager determines will be the primary direction of travel for residents of the subdivision or occupants of the land development.
(Res. No. 2005-10, § 1-3-7, 8-15-05)
Sec. 44-158. - Standards for configuring new streets.
(a)
Street alignment, intersections and jogs. Streets shall be aligned to join with planned or existing streets. Under normal conditions, streets shall be laid out so as to intersect as nearly as possible at right angles (90 degrees), but in no case shall such a street intersection be less than 75 degrees. Where street offsets or jogs cannot be avoided, offset "T" intersections shall be separated by a minimum centerline offset of 150 feet.
(b)
Continuation of existing streets and connections. Existing streets, and their rights-of-way, shall be continued at the same or greater width, but in no case less than the required width. The mayor and city council may require that a major subdivision provide one or more future street connections to adjoining subdivisions or unsubdivided tracts.
(c)
Street plans for future phases of the tract. Where the plat or site plan proposed to be subdivided or developed includes only part of the tract owned or intended for subdivision or development by the subdivider or land developer, a tentative plan of a future street system for the portion not slated for immediate subdivision consideration may be required by the city manager and if required shall be prepared and submitted by the subdivider or land developer.
(d)
Dead-end streets and culs-de-sac. Streets that dead-end shall terminate in a cul-de-sac. The maximum length of such streets shall be 600 feet. Streets that are planned to continue at some future date shall provide a temporary cul-de-sac as required by the city manager.
(e)
Marginal access streets. Whenever a major subdivision or non-residential development is proposed abutting the right-of-way of a U.S. or state highway, a marginal access street approximately parallel and adjacent to such right-of-way may be required by the mayor and city council at a distance suitable for the appropriate use of land between such marginal access street and highway right-of-way. A 20-foot no-access easement and planting strip along the major arterial street will be required to ensure that lots fronting on said street do not have access thereto.
(f)
Alleys and service access. Alleys may be provided in non-residential developments. If they are provided, they must be paved. Dead-end alleys shall be avoided where possible; but if unavoidable, they shall be provided with adequate turnaround facilities. Service access shall be provided to commercial and industrial developments for off-street loading, unloading, and parking consistent with and adequate for the uses proposed.
(Res. No. 2005-10, § 1-3-8, 8-15-05)
Sec. 44-159. - Requirements for streets.
(a)
Bridges. Bridges on public rights-of-way shall meet current American Association of State Highway and Transportation Officials standards and Georgia Department of Transportation (GDOT) standards, as determined by the city manager.
(b)
Grading and stabilization of street rights-of-ways. When a new public street is proposed, all trees, brush, stumps, rocks, or other debris shall be cleared from the street right-of-way, except in cases where specimen trees or other features are required to be preserved by the city manager. All streets shall be graded to lines, grades and cross sections approved on plans. All unsurfaced disturbed portions of street rights-of-way shall be stabilized by seeding, fertilizing, and mulching or by another equally effective method.
(c)
Radius at street intersections. The right-of-way radius at street intersections shall be a minimum of 15 feet, with larger radii for streets serving nonresidential development, as approved by the city manager. The minimum pavement (curb) radius at street intersections shall be 25 feet.
(d)
Street grades. No street grade shall be less than one percent. No street grade for an arterial or collector street shall exceed eight percent. No other local street grade shall exceed 12 percent, unless the city manager finds that due to topographic conditions, a steeper grade is necessary, in which case the street grade shall not exceed 15 percent. Grades between 12 percent and 15 percent shall not exceed a length of 150 feet.
(e)
Minimum street right-of-way and pavement widths. Street right-of-way and pavement widths shall at minimum meet the following:
EXPAND
Street Type Minimum Right-Of-Way
Width (feet) Minimum Pavement
Width (feet)
Major arterial street Per thoroughfare plan Per thoroughfare plan
Collector street 60 36
Local street with curb and gutter 45 22 (back of curb to back of curb)
Cul-de-sac turn around radius 50 40 (back of curb)
Alley (one-way) 20 16
Alley (two-way) 28 24
  (f)
Street horizontal alignment and reverse curves. Street horizontal alignments and reverse curves shall at minimum meet the following:
EXPAND
Street Type Minimum Horizontal Radii Of Center Line Curvature (feet) Minimum Tangents Between Reverse Curves (feet)
Major arterial street 1,250 250
Collector street 500 100
Local street with curb and gutter 100 50
Dead-end street 100 50
  (Res. No. 2005-10, § 1-3-9, 8-15-05; Ord. No. 2015-008a, § 1, 8-10-2015)
Sec. 44-160. - Curb cuts and access specifications.
(a)
Entrance improvement specifications. Roadway entrances and improvements, including necessary acceleration and/or deceleration lane(s) and right/left turn lanes, shall be designed, installed, and maintained as approved by the state department of transportation, as applicable, or the city manager, in accordance with Georgia Department of Transportation specifications. All entrances or exits of any street or driveway, public or private, from or to any state highway shall be approved by the Georgia Department of Transportation and the city manager prior to the construction of such entrances or exits and prior to the issuance of any land use permit or building permit for any improvement to be served by such entrances or exits. All entrances or exits of any street or driveway, public or private, from or to any city street shall be approved by the city manager prior to the construction of such entrances or exits and prior to the issuance of any land use permit or building permit for any improvement to be served by such entrances or exits.
(b)
Curb cut specifications. No curb cut shall be permitted to be located closer than 100 feet to the nearest existing or proposed right-of-way of an intersecting roadway or closer than 40 feet to a side property line unless the adjacent property owner is in agreement with the encroachment of the curb cut and approval is obtained from the city manager. Curb cuts shall be no narrower than 24 feet from back of curb to back of curb. Strict adherence to these requirements may not be practical in all instances as determined by the city manager. The city manager may limit the maximum width of a curb cut and/or the number of curb cuts to a parcel as necessary when it is deemed to be of benefit to the safety and welfare of the public.
The following factors may be considered during the review and approval of a specific location of an entrance: the location of existing or planned median breaks; separation requirements between the entrance and major intersections; separation requirements between other entrances; the need to provide shared access with other sites; the need to align with previously approved or constructed access points on the opposite side of the street; and the minimum number of entrances needed to move traffic onto and off the site safely and efficiently.
(c)
Access along and near divided highways. Where a divided highway exists or is planned, the following access standards shall be met:
EXPAND
Minimum Access Separation Requirements Distance (feet)
Curb cut of driveway from street intersection with divided highway 600
Parallel frontage road from right-of-way of divided highway 450
Curb cut or driveway on a local road from right-of-way of divided highway 200
Curb cut or driveway on a local road from state highway 200
Curb cut or driveway on parallel frontage road from local road 150
  (d)
Interparcel connections. New development that contains or is intended to contain more than one building or use on site shall provide connections so that automobile trips between and among such buildings or uses can be accomplished without using the highway or major street. New developments and substantial improvements to existing developments shall provide for pedestrian and automobile access connections between adjacent properties under different ownership when the uses of the properties are of such compatibility that patrons may frequent both buildings or uses in the same vehicle trip, unless the city manager otherwise.
(Res. No. 2005-10, § 1-3-10, 8-15-05)
Sec. 44-161. - Street lighting.
Street lights shall be provided by the owner/developer in new subdivisions and developments which propose the construction of a new street to be dedicated to the city or along existing streets abutting the subdivision or land development. All fees, materials, labor, poles, fixtures and any other associated items shall be furnished, paid for and installed by the developer. The following standards shall apply:
(1)
In a residential development, street lights shall be installed and operating prior to approval of the final plat. In a non-residential development, street lights are to be installed prior to the issuance of a certificate of occupancy (C.O.) for the building(s).
(2)
Lighting fixtures installed within the public rights-of-way to be operated for the purpose of street illumination shall comply with these standards. The minimum average horizontal foot-candle illumination level by roadway classification shall be:
EXPAND
Roadway
Classification Maximum Spacing
Between
Lights Commercial Area Intermediate Area Residential Area Downtown Area
Major Arterial 200 feet 1.2 0.9 0.6 Reference
Adopted
Streetscape
Standards
Collector (16—18' high pole) 150 feet 0.8 0.6 0.4
Local or
Residential (12—14' high pole) 100 feet 0.6 0.5 0.3
  The uniformity of illumination shall be such that the point of lowest illumination shall have at least one-third of the average horizontal foot-candle required illumination level, except that on local or residential streets it may not be less than one-sixth of this average.
(3)
Any party requesting permission to install or operate lighting fixtures within public rights-of-way shall furnish plans and specifications to the city manager for approval showing how the proposed lighting meets the standards. No lighting shall be installed or operated without the approval of the city manager. Should the city manager disapprove a request to install lighting fixtures within any public right-of-way, he shall communicate disapproval in writing to the party requesting approval. The written communication shall include specific reasons for disapproval. Any disapproval of a light or lighting system may be appealed to the city council. The city council may reserve or affirm, wholly or partly, or may modify the order, requirement, and decision of determination appealed.
(4)
Roadway or street lighting luminaries or fixtures installed within the public rights-of-way as "security lights" or for the purpose of lighting area other than the public streets shall be mounted on the side of the pole opposite from the street, and shall be oriented in such a manner to insure that the lateral light distribution pattern is parallel to the street and the vertical light distribution, at the initial source, is perpendicular to the street, so as to protect the users of the street from objectionable glare. The approval of the city manager shall be obtained prior to installation of these lights.
(5)
Other lighting fixtures to be installed within or outside of public rights-of-way for whatever purpose shall be installed and operated in such a manner so as to prevent glare from being a hazard to or interfering with the normal use of the public rights-of-way.
(6)
The use of full cut-off luminaires is required in all areas.
(7)
Shields must be used in residential areas to minimize light trespass.
(8)
The use of photocells for automatic turn-on and shut-off is recommended in order to reduce light levels during inactive periods while maintaining sufficient lighting for safety and security.
(Res. No. 2005-10, § 1-3-11, 8-15-05)
Sec. 44-162. - Street signs.
Signs for street names, directions of travel, traffic control, and hazards shall be provided as directed by the city manager. Street signs on exterior/boundary streets shall be installed by the city with the developer paying a proportionate share determined by the city. Street signs for interior streets of a subdivision or land development shall be installed at the subdivider or developer's expense by the subdivider or developer, subject to the approval of the city manager.
Unless otherwise provided in standards and specifications adopted by the city manager, street signs shall meet the following specifications. Signs shall be constructed of aluminum sheets with reflective backgrounds. Information on the street name signs shall be readable from both sides of the sign. Signs shall be installed on a steel post. The vertical distance from the road elevation to the bottom of the sign face shall be seven feet with a minimum burial depth of three feet.
(Res. No. 2005-10, § 1-3-12, 8-15-05)
Sec. 44-163. - Curbs and gutters.
Curbs and gutters shall be installed in accordance with standards and specifications of the city manager. All residential, commercial and industrial subdivisions and land developments must have curbs and gutters, regardless of the size of the lots. When property fronting on an existing. City street is subdivided or developed, and the subdivision or land development uses said existing street for access, then curb and gutter shall be required along said street along the entire property frontage of said street.
Curbs shall be concrete which shall be class A 3,000 psi strength at 28 days. The typical curb minimum section shall be six inches by 24 inches by 12 inches
In instances where standards are not provided in the City Guidelines, Georgia Department of Transportation standards and specifications should be used.
(Res. No. 2005-10, § 1-3-13, 8-15-05)
Sec. 44-164. - Sidewalks.
(a)
When required. Sidewalks shall be required within residential, commercial, industrial, and or/office developments/subdivisions on both sides of all streets. Sidewalks shall also be required along the entire perimeter of a development where such perimeters/parcel boundaries run or front a long a public street, or along the entire extent of the parcel boundaries where access to adjacent lots may or are possible as a part of existing or future developments.
(b)
Location. Sidewalks shall be included within the dedicated nonpavement right-of-way of roads and shall parallel the street pavement as much as possible; provided, however, the city manager may permit sidewalks to be designed and constructed so that they meander around permanent obstructions or deviate from a linear pattern for design purposes.
(c)
Specifications. Sidewalks shall be a minimum of four feet wide. A median strip of grassed or landscaped areas at least five feet wide shall separate all sidewalks from adjacent curbs in residential areas. Sidewalks shall be constructed in accordance with current Americans with Disabilities Act (ADA) specifications.
(Res. No. 2005-10, § 1-3-14, 8-15-05; Ord. No. 2015-008a, § 3, 8-10-2015)
Sec. 44-165. - Drainage and stormwater management.
(a)
General requirements. An adequate drainage system, separate and independent of any sanitary sewer system and including any necessary ditches, pipes, culverts, intersectional drains, drop inlets, bridges, etc., shall be provided for the proper drainage of all surface water for all subdivisions and land developments. Sizing and location of all drainage structures shall be the responsibility of a registered professional engineer. The city manager may require the use of on-site control methods such as retention or detention to mitigate the stormwater and drainage impacts of the proposed subdivisions and land developments. The mayor and city council shall not approve any preliminary plat of subdivision that does not make adequate provision for storm and flood water runoff channels or basins as determined by the city manager. No building permit shall be issued for any building within a subdivision or for the development of land, if there is not present throughout the subdivision or to the land development an adequate system of drainage and stormwater management.
(b)
Method of design and capacity. Storm sewers, where required, shall be designed in accordance with the State of Georgia Stormwater Manual. In addition, all systems must be designed to reduce the stormwater runoff to ten percent less than the stormwater runoff of the pre-developed conditions of the site. For redevelopments, a pre-developed runoff coefficient of three-tenths will be required. A copy of design computations shall be submitted along with required plans. Drainage improvements shall accommodate potential runoff from the entire upstream drainage area within the site and shall be designed to prevent increases in downstream flooding. Capacity for a 25-year storm or rain shall be provided for all street drainage structures such as catch basin, inlets cross drains, etc. Capacity for a 100-year frequency storm event shall be provided for all main drainage structures such as retention/detention basins, principal storm sewers, and all types of flood protection works.
(c)
Location. Drainage facilities shall be located in the road right-of-way where feasible, and shall be constructed in accordance with standards and specifications of the city manager. Catch basins shall be located at low points of streets. Where topography or other conditions are such as to make impractical the inclusion of drainage facilities within road rights-of-way, perpetual, unobstructed easements at least 15 feet in width for drainage facilities shall be provided across property outside the road right-of-way and with satisfactory access to the road.
(d)
Discharge. Drainage shall be designed so as to avoid concentration of storm drainage water from each lot or land development site to adjacent lots, land development sites, or vacant properties. Storm water shall not be discharged directly to perennial streams. It shall be directed toward natural drainages. If water must be discharged to a stream, the water quality flowing into the stream must meet or exceed the water quality in the receiving waters. The water quantity flowing into the stream must be evaluated to ensure the stream channel can accommodate the increased flows and not disrupt or degrade the ecology of the water body.
(e)
Grading and site drainage. Lots or land development sites shall be laid out so as to provide positive drainage away from all buildings, and drainage for individual lots or land development sites shall be coordinated with the general storm drainage pattern for the area. Buildings and parking lots shall be appropriately drained so as to prevent damage to abutting properties or public streets. All disturbed or graded ground areas of a building site not used for buildings or open storage areas shall be appropriately stabilized and grassed or covered with plants or landscaping materials.
(f)
Cross-drainpipes. Where a watercourse separates the buildable area of a lot from the street by which it has access, provisions shall be made for installation of a culvert or other structure, the design of which shall be approved by the city manager. Cross-drains shall be provided to accommodate all natural waterflow, and shall be of sufficient length to permit full-width roadways and the required slopes. Cross drainpipes shall have head walls of an approved type on inlet and outlet ends of the pipe. Pipe installed within the right-of-way shall be reinforced concrete pipe. All storm drainpipes shall be minimum 18 inches in diameter. Storm sewer slopes shall be equal to or greater than one percent.
(g)
Drop inlets. Drop inlets, at a minimum, shall be generally three-foot by three-foot boxes with two-foot by three-foot grates unless otherwise specified by the city manager.
(h)
Easements. Where an irrigation ditch or channel, natural creek, stream or other drainage way crosses a subdivision or land development, the subdivider or developer shall provide an easement sufficient for drainage and maintenance. Easements shall be provided for all drainage facilities as approved by the city manager. When a subdivision or land development is traversed by a watercourse, drainage way, channel, or intermittent stream, a stormwater or drainage easement of at least 25 feet shall be provided.
(i)
Maintenance of detention facilities. Stormwater detention facilities are required to be maintained in a proper and appropriate manner to provide the water quality and detention as they were designed. Maintenance must be provided at least on an annual basis or due to a major stormwater event as outlined in the state stormwater management manual, latest edition. Failure to maintain a detention facility can result in the city assessing the cost of the maintenance and placing a lien against the property or homeowner's association.
(Res. No. 2005-10, § 1-3-15, 8-15-05)
Sec. 44-166. - Water.
(a)
Generally. All habitable buildings and buildable lots shall be connected to a water system capable of providing water for health and emergency purposes, including adequate fire protection. No building permit shall be issued for any building within a subdivision or for the development of land, if there is not present throughout the subdivision or to the land development an adequate water supply.
(b)
Water main requirements. When a public water main is accessible, the developer shall install adequate water facilities, including fire hydrants, according to specifications of the Clayton County Water Authority or as required by the city manager. All water mains shall normally be at least six inches in diameter except that pipe of lesser size may be used if properly looped and adequate water pressure is maintained in accordance with standards established by the Southeastern Fire Underwriters Association. Pipe of less than four inches shall not be used except in unusual cases. Water lines shall be installed at least 30 inches below grade. Water mains within subdivisions and land developments must be provided with connections to each lot in the subdivision and each land development, except as otherwise specifically provided.
(c)
Fire hydrants. Fire hydrants shall be required for all nonresidential land developments and all subdivisions except those permitted to be served by individual on-site wells. Fire hydrants with appropriate water pressure at appropriate intervals throughout the subdivision or land development shall be provided by the subdivider or land developer as required by the county fire department. Fire hydrants shall be located no more than 1,000 feet apart and within 500 feet of any principal dwelling. Hydrants, fittings, valves and fire department connections shall be approved by the fire department. Fire department connections shall be not less than 18 inches or more than 36 inches above the level of the adjoining ground or paving. The thread of such connections shall be uniform with that used by the fire department. To eliminate future street openings, all underground utilities for fire hydrants, together with the fire hydrants themselves, and all other supply improvements shall be installed before any final paving of a street within the right-of-way shared by such underground utilities.
(Res. No. 2005-10, § 1-3-16, 8-15-05)
Sec. 44-167. - Sewer.
(a)
Generally. All habitable buildings and buildable lots shall be served by an approved means of wastewater collection and treatment. Each subdivision and land development shall be served by adequate sewage disposal facilities. No building permit shall be issued for any building within a subdivision or for the development of land, if there is not present throughout the subdivision or to the land development an adequate system of wastewater collection and treatment.
(b)
Connection to public sewerage system. The subdivider or land developer shall connect with a public sanitary sewerage system and provide sewers accessible to each lot in the subdivision or to each land development. It shall be unlawful for any to maintain upon any such property an individual sewage disposal system. Sanitary sewers shall be located within street or alley rights-of-way unless topography dictates otherwise. No public sewer shall be less than eight inches in diameter. Manholes shall be installed in sanitary sewers with a maximum distance between two manholes of 400 feet, unless otherwise specified by standards of the city manager. Sanitary sewer slopes shall be equal to or greater than seven-tenths percent for eight-inch lines. All sewer lines shall be designed with slopes to obtain a minimum velocity of two feet per second. Minimum 20-foot wide easements shall be provided for all sanitary sewer lines.
(Res. No. 2005-10, § 1-3-17, 8-15-05)
Sec. 44-168. - Utilities.
All utility facilities, including but not limited to gas, electric power, telephone, and cable television, shall be located underground throughout the subdivision or land development. Whenever existing utility facilities are located above ground, except when existing on public roads and rights-of-way, they shall be removed and placed underground. Easements centered on rear lot lines shall be provided for utilities, private and public, and such easements shall be at least ten feet wide. When topographical or other conditions are such as to make impractical the inclusion of utilities along the rear lot lines of a subdivision, lot, or land development site, perpetual unobstructed easements at least ten feet in width shall be provided along side lot lines with satisfactory access.
(Res. No. 2005-10, § 1-3-18, 8-15-05)
Sec. 44-169. - Oversizing of improvements and utilities.
The subdivider or land developer shall construct such oversized improvements and utilities that the city manager determines are necessary, provided that the subdivider or land developer shall not be obligated for the additional cost of improvements and utilities that are not uniquely required for that development, and provided the subdivider agrees to a proposal by the city manager to share in the cost arrangements for over-sizing improvements and utilities. A formula may be developed by the city to provide for a sharing of the cost of other improvements needed to serve the subdivision or land development when certain of the improvements are necessary to serve future subdivisions or developments in the vicinity.
(Res. No. 2005-10, § 1-3-19, 8-15-05)
Sec. 44-170. - Procedure for administrative inspection and acceptance of public improvements.
Upon completion of public improvement construction, the subdivider or land developer shall notify the city manager and request an inspection. The city manager shall inspect all public improvements and shall notify the subdivider or land developer by mail of nonacceptance or preliminary acceptance. If the public improvements are not acceptable, the reason for non-acceptance shall be stated and corrective measures shall be outlined in a letter of notification. Upon notification, the subdivider or land developer shall correct all deficiencies identified in the non-acceptance letter within the time limit established by the city manager. Once deficiencies are corrected, the subdivider or land developer shall again request inspection in writing. Acceptance of public improvements required by article III of this code to be approved by the local governing body shall be forwarded to the governing body by the city manager following receipt of written approval of the city manager.
(Res. No. 2005-10, § 1-3-20, 8-15-05)
